{"id": "1513686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1513686", "title": "Abra-Catastrophe", "text": "Abra-Catastrophe\n\nAbra-Catastrophe! is the twelfth episode of Season 3 of \"The Fairly OddParents\", serving as the series' first television film.\n\nAll the fairies in Fairy World celebrate Timmy Turner's Fairy-versary, a magical event that only occurs when a godchild is able to keep his/her fairies a secret for an entire year. After receiving numerous magical gifts, Jorgen Von Strangle gives Timmy a magical muffin that allows anyone who eats it to have a \"rule-free\" wish. Timmy then asks how he got Cosmo and Wanda as his godparents. Wanda shows through a flashback that his parents lied to an 8-year old Timmy and tricked him into hiring Vicky as his babysitter. Upset, Timmy inadvertently wishes that his parents could tell the truth. Mr. and Mrs. Turner begin to feel guilty and they start counting the many times they have lied to Timmy. Timmy takes the muffin to school, but is followed by Mr. Crocker who detects the magic within the muffin. Crocker attempts to retrieve the muffin, but only manages to get it out of Timmy's possession. Crocker chains Timmy down during class in order to get to the muffin first, but Timmy wishes himself free. During muffin day at lunch, Timmy sees Crocker frantically searching for the muffin, which leads Timmy to initiate a food fight. The muffin ends up in the paws of Bippy, a monkey that Timmy sets free, and he takes a bite of the muffin. Suddenly, the whole world is transformed, leaving monkeys the rulers of Earth. To make matters worse, Timmy loses his Godparents when Jorgen announces to all fairies that Da Rules say they have to be Godparents of the \"dominant species\" on Earth: monkeys. Bippy ends up getting Cosmo and Wanda as godparents.\n\nTimmy, who still remembers Cosmo and Wanda, follows Bippy to try to get him to unwish everything. Timmy returns to Mr. Crocker's class, who is now ranting about Apes using fairies to take over the world. Mr. Crocker is taken by the apes to a place off-limits to Humans. With Crocker gone, Timmy enters the Crocker Cave and steals a magic detector. He uses the magic detector to track down Bippy, whom he finds with the Fairy-versary muffin along with Cosmo and Wanda. Timmy almost succeeds in retrieving the muffin, but is captured by the Apes and brought to the human testing center along with Mr. Crocker and Francis. Crocker is to be dissected first, but he fearfully begs for Timmy to be taken instead. Timmy is taken to a surgical room where his skull is about to be drilled into when Bippy showed up to rescue him. Bippy manages to fight off the apes at first, but is eventually overwhelmed.\n\nLuckily, due to Cosmo's 'paraphrasing' of Bippy's wish, which Cosmo claims could just as easily have been for another banana, everything is unwished moments before Timmy was about to be harmed. Unfortunately, Bippy also lost the muffin during the scuffle, and immediately after the world is returned to normal, Crocker finds the muffin, takes a bite, and wishes he could catch a fairy. He obtains a butterfly net (one of the few items a fairy's magic has no effect on) and captures Wanda. Cosmo is devastated and Bippy flees. Timmy realizes that the first thing Crocker will do with his newfound power is rub it in the face of his students, so he rushes back to his school. With his new-found power, Crocker appears in a power armor suit which has Wanda trapped in a scepter and the Fairy-versary muffin within the chest cavity. He terrorizes his students by turning them into ice statues (he wanted to turn them into ash), turning Sanjay and Chester's heads into toilets when they asked to go the bathroom, and then chases Timmy off as he transforms the world and makes himself the all-powerful magical leader.\n\nTimmy arms himself with the various gifts he got from his Fairy-versary party, and goes to confront Crocker. Crocker abuses Wanda's magic by having the citizens bow down to him and make them eat shrimp puffs. Timmy disguised as a masked hero engages Crocker in a magical duel. Crocker has the upper hand, until Cosmo returns with \"5-second massive pecs\" and pummels him. However, Cosmo lets his guard down, and he too is captured. Timmy and Crocker fight through space and time before Timmy's cover is blown. Crocker decides to threaten Timmy's parents realizing he cannot destroy him with magic. Returning home, Timmy sees his parents under the mercy of Crocker and surrenders. Timmy and his parents reconcile. Left with no other choice, Timmy reveals that Cosmo and Wanda are his fairy godparents, breaking the sacred cardinal law of Da Rules. This results in Cosmo and Wanda breaking free of Crocker's control, and are sent back to Fairy World. With Crocker now powerless, Mr. and Mrs. Turner start pummeling him, knocking the muffin out of his possession. Timmy grabs and eats the rest of the muffin, and wishes for his godparents to return. Timmy then wishes for everything to be back to normal. Back at school, Crocker attempts to convince everyone that fairies exist and that they will all bow down to him, but no one believes him. Crocker is then injected with medicine and sent to a mental institution. Jorgen shows up in Timmy's room and says that, even though everything is fixed, he still broke Da Rules. Before he can take Cosmo and Wanda away, Timmy throws the Forget-Me-Knob (a magical item that was used in the beginning to keep Timmy's parents away from the party) at Jorgen's head, who forgets what he was doing. Cosmo and Wanda then trick him into \"assigning\" Timmy as their godchild to which Jorgen agrees. Timmy reminds them that he \"just got fairy godparents\", so Cosmo and Wanda reenact their first meeting with Timmy.\n\n\nThe film premiered on July 12, 2003. Attracting over 4 million views, the film was the highest rated film on basic cable on the week it premiered.\n\nOn the day of its premiere, Robert Lloyd of Los Angeles Times claimed that the film was \"fun for the whole family\", praising it for its moments of suspense as well as its references to popular culture.\n"}
{"id": "1714534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714534", "title": "Abtin", "text": "Abtin\n\nAbtin or Aubtin or Abteen or Atbin or Aubteen () is a character in Shahnama (national epic of Persia), who is the father of Fereydun. His name translated in English means, \"The one with good thoughts, good words and good deeds\". These three traits are very important characteristics in Zoroastrianism. Unlike how it is spelt, the pronunciation of the name is not \"Abtin\" but it is rather \"Aub-teen\".\n\nAbtin is also synonymous with Sphinx.\n\n"}
{"id": "43756774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43756774", "title": "Afri Twin", "text": "Afri Twin\n\nAfri Twin is an international school linking initiative that facilitates mutually beneficial partnerships between students and teachers at schools in the United Kingdom and South Africa. It was founded in 2001 by Jayne Martin, a South African then living in the United Kingdom who has since returned to South Africa. Afri Twin provides support for the programme by matching schools with suitable partners, providing guidance to participating schools and arranging workshops and other networking events. The benefits of Afri Twin partnerships include global learning, greater cultural tolerance and the improvement of learning facilities in disadvantaged schools. In 2010, there were over 250 schools in the United Kingdom and South Africa participating in the initiative.\n\nParticipating schools are arranged in collaborative clusters of up to six schools, including at least one British school and one South African school, with one aim being the upliftment of a disadvantaged South African school in each cluster. Apart from physical visits to partner schools, students at twinned schools are encouraged to learn more about other cultures via pen pal relationships, video chat, and blogging, and teachers exchange teaching tips and ideas. School clusters also collaborate on themed projects that incorporate a variety of school subjects and foster global citizenship.\n\nSome participating schools have received financial support for the initiative from the British Council, a British charity that promotes international educational and cultural relations. Participating schools also undertake their own fundraising projects to help finance overseas trips and school upliftment projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "33403327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33403327", "title": "Alcohol advertising on college campuses", "text": "Alcohol advertising on college campuses\n\nMany college campuses throughout the United States have some form of alcohol advertising including flyers on bulletin boards to mini billboard signs on college buses. It is so prevalent on college campuses especially because college students are considered the \"targeted marketing group,\" meaning that college students are more likely to consume larger qualities of alcohol than any other age group, which makes them the prime consumers of alcohol in the United States.\n\nAccording to an economic research done by Henry Saffer, who is a PH.D researcher for the National Bureau of Economic Research, \"Product personalities are designed to appeal to specific market segments. For example, in targeting young people, Coors beer is associated with an unspoiled wilderness, whereas Budweiser is associated with athletic success\". By sending these messages to its audiences, beer companies make sure those students consume their specific brand of alcohol so that they can appear more athletic or whatever lifestyle the ads promise. The more appealing the beer and alcohol companies make their advertisements, the more students will consume their particular brand of products on campus and also, most likely, for life.\n\nA 2001 study was done by the College Alcohol Study (CAS) of the Harvard School of Public Health. Researchers of this study observed the alcohol advertisement of 119 colleges that participated. They sampled over 10,000 students and 830 on-campus sites and 1684 off-campus sites. The results of the study showed that alcohol advertising such as specials and promotions especially on weekends were available and prevalent. Nearly three-quarters of the on campus grounds and about half of the grounds off campus had some type of beer advertising such as discount prices, coupons and even alcohol-related messages (e.g. health related messages). According to the CAS team, the frequent advertising of alcohol both on and off campuses is associated to increased alcohol consumption among college students such as binge drinking. \"The lower average alcohol sale prices among on-premises establishments surrounding the college campus, the higher the college binge drinking rate\".\n\nAnother study was completed by CASA at Columbia University on drinking rates among college students and the findings were that from 1993 to 2005, the rate of binge drinking has rose 16 percent. Furthermore, 26 percent of college students kept drinking until they were drunk. Alcohol companies spent over $1.2 billion on advertising and promotions and specials on college campuses across the United States in 1998 including special discounts, giveaways, print media, outdoor advertising, radio and television. Another two-thirds of a billion was spent on other forms of advertising for alcohol such as sponsorships, coupons and mailings. Alcohol advertising increased 34% from 1987 to 1996. Since 1997, alcohol advertising has been increasing on college campuses from students wearing alcohol-related appeal to coupons being offered via flyers for alcohol purchases on campus in the dining halls and off campus at liquor stores. Research from a study has shown that there is a direct correlation between increased alcohol advertising on college campuses and increased alcohol consumption among college students. Furthermore, the researchers of this study concluded that the lower the price of alcohol on or near college campuses, the higher the drinking rates among the students especially binge drinking. \"This is consistent with previous findings that alcohol consumption by young people (in this case, college students) is affected by price. In line with this are the findings that alcohol promotions, price specials and large-volume discounts are associated with higher binge-drinking rates\".\n\nThese days most of the underage drinking would occur after leaving secondary school and starting off in college. Apart from the deaths, Eamonn Molloy has found that “Alcohol is implicated in approximately one hundred thousand sexual assaults and half a million injuries on college campuses annually” (2016:148) in the United States of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "46791432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46791432", "title": "Ani - Imo", "text": "Ani - Imo\n\nThe series was first serialized in \"Aria\" magazine. Seven manga volumes were released in Japan; Yen Press licensed the series for release in North America and has also published all of the volumes. The first volume of the series released in North America was met with overall positive reviews. Critics point out that the incest theme may be a possible turnoff, but that the storyline has an interesting premise.\n\n\"Ani - Imo\" is about Youta and his twin sister Hikaru. Youta is very protective of her and has been since childhood. He always thought of his sister as innocent and quiet, until one day a freak accident causes the two to swap bodies. Hikaru, now in her brother's body shows her true self and states that she is and always has been deeply in love with him as more than a brother. At first, Youta is surprised, but as the story progresses, he realizes he feels the same.\n\n\"Ani ga Imouto de Imouto ga Ani de\" was originally serialized in \"Aria\" magazine from July 7, 2012 to August 12, 2014. Seven manga books in all were released in Japan through Kodansha. On October 12, 2013 Yen Press announced at their New York Comic Con panel that they had licensed the series under the name \"Ani - Imo\". At the beginning of each volume, a translation is provided that reads \"[Ani-Imo] Big Brother becomes Little Sister; Little Sister becomes Big Brother\". All seven English language volumes were released by Yen Press between November 18, 2014, and June 28, 2016.\n\nThe English language adaptation of \"Ani - Imo\" has received mostly positive reviews. Rebecca Silverman of Anime News Network gave the first volume a B rating. She praised it for its use of body language and how most of the humor works, although says that the humor can feel too mean at times and that the incest theme will be \"offputting\" to some readers. Matthew Warner from The Fandom Post also gave the first volume of the series a B, criticizing the artwork as \"bland\" and \"mostly chibi\". He also says that the hurdles of incest and homosexuality might turn people off, but that the story has \"interesting parts to its setup\". When talking about the characters, he goes on to say that Youta's character makes for some \"fun and unique laughs\", while \"Hikaru also has a fun personality\". Ash Brown from Experiments in Manga (Manga Bookshelf) called the first volume a \"bit off-putting\". He calls the doctor's character \"extremely predatory\" and disliked the youthful appearance of the high schoolers. Shaenon Garrity from Otaku USA also reviewed the first volume. She says that the artwork for Youta portrays a \"tall bespectacled bishonen, while Hikaru is a big-eyed, purple-haired moe pixie\". She goes on to say that \"Ani - imo\" is \"entertaining if only for how outrageous it's willing to get\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39498321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39498321", "title": "Anti-Middle Eastern sentiment", "text": "Anti-Middle Eastern sentiment\n\nAnti-Middle Eastern sentiment is feelings and expression of hostility, hatred, discrimination, or prejudice towards the Middle East and its culture, and towards persons based on their association with the Middle East and Middle Eastern culture.\n\nAnti-Middle Eastern racism has a long history in the United States, although it had generally been limited to Jews until recent decades. It is suggested by Leo Rosten that as soon as they left the boat, Jews were subject to racism from the port immigration authorities. The derogatory term \"kike\" was adopted when referring to Jews (because they often could not write so they may have signed their immigration papers with circles – or kikel in Yiddish). > In early films, such as Cohen's Advertising Scheme (1904, silent), Jews were stereotyped as \"scheming merchants\", often with exaggerated West Asian racial features such as big, hooked noses, big lips, small eyes, black curly hair, and olive and/or brown-colored skin.\n\nFrom the 1910s, Southern Jewish communities were attacked by the Ku Klux Klan, who objected to Jewish immigration, and often used \"The Jewish Banker\" in their propaganda. In 1915, Leo Frank was lynched in Georgia after being convicted of rape and sentenced to death (his punishment was commuted to life imprisonment). The second Ku Klux Klan, which grew enormously in the early 1920s by promoting \"100% Americanism\", focused its hatred on Jews, as well as Catholics and African Americans. \n\nThe events in Nazi Germany also attracted attention from the United States. Jewish lobbying for intervention in Europe drew opposition from the isolationists, amongst whom was Father Charles Coughlin, a well-known radio priest, who was known to be critical of Jews, believing that they were leading the United States into the war. He preached in weekly, overtly anti-Semitic sermons and, from 1936, began publication of a newspaper, \"Social Justice\", in which he printed anti-Semitic accusations such as The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.\n\nIn 1993, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee confronted The Walt Disney Company about anti-Arab racist content in its animated film \"Aladdin\". At first, Disney denied any problems but eventually relented and changed two lines in the opening song. Members of the ADC were still unhappy with the portrayal of Arabic characters and the referral to the Middle East as \"barbaric\".\n\nSince 9/11, anti-Middle Eastern racism has risen dramatically. A man in Houston, Texas, who was shot and wounded after an assailant accused him of \"blowing up the country\", and four immigrants shot and killed by a man named Larme Price, who confessed to killing them as revenge for the September 11 attacks. Price said he was motivated by a desire to kill people of Arab descent after the attacks. Although Price described his victims as Arabs, only one was from an Arab country. This appears to be a trend; because of stereotypes of Arabs, several non-Arab, non-Muslim groups were subjected to attacks in the wake of 9/11, including several Sikh men attacked for wearing their religiously-mandated turban. Price's mother, Leatha Price, said that her son's anger at Arabs was a matter of mental illness, not ethnic hatred.\n\nOne widely publicized incident was the murder of Balbir Singh Sodhi. The term \"towel-head\" is a pejorative reference to Middle Eastern headdresses including turbans and is mainly used to refer to both Arabs and terrorists. Middle Eastern, Central Asian, and Sikh turban wearers usually wind their turban anew for each wearing, using long strips of cloth that are usually five meters or less. However, some elaborate South Asian turbans may be permanently formed and sewn to a foundation. Turbans can be very large or quite modest dependent upon region, culture, and religion.\nIn November 2005, the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights examined antisemitism on college campuses. It reported that \"incidents of threatened bodily injury, physical intimidation or property damage are now rare\", but antisemitism still occurs on many campuses and is a \"serious problem.\" The Commission recommended that the U.S. Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights protect college students from antisemitism through vigorous enforcement of \"Title VI\" of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and further recommended that Congress clarify that Title VI applies to discrimination against Jewish students.\n\nOn 19 September 2006, Yale University founded the Yale Initiative for the Interdisciplinary Study of Anti-Semitism (YIISA), the first North American university-based center for study of the subject, as part of its Institution for Social and Policy Studies. Director Charles Small of the Center cited the increase in antisemitism worldwide in recent years as generating a \"need to understand the current manifestation of this disease\". In June 2011, Yale voted to close this initiative. After carrying out a routine review, the faculty review committee said that the initiative had not met its research and teaching standards. Donald Green, then head of Yale’s Institution for Social and Policy Studies, the body under whose aegis the antisemitism initiative was run, said that it had not had many papers published in the relevant leading journals or attracted many students. As with other programs that had been in a similar situation, the initiative had therefore been cancelled. This decision has been criticized by figures such as former U.S. Commission on Civil Rights Staff Director Kenneth L. Marcus, who is now the director of the Initiative to Combat Anti-Semitism and Anti-Israelism in America’s Educational Systems at the Institute for Jewish and Community Research, and Deborah Lipstadt, who described the decision as \"weird\" and \"strange.\" Antony Lerman has supported Yale's decision, describing the YIISA as a politicized initiative that was devoted to the promotion of Israel rather than to serious research on antisemitism.\n\nA 2007 survey by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) concluded that 15% of Americans hold antisemitic views, which was in-line with the average of the previous ten years, but a decline from the 29% of the early sixties. The survey concluded that education was a strong predictor, \"with most educated Americans being remarkably free of prejudicial views.\" The belief that Jews have too much power was considered a common antisemitic view by the ADL. Other views indicating antisemitism, according to the survey, include the view that Jews are more loyal to Israel than America, and that they are responsible for the death of Jesus of Nazareth. The survey found that antisemitic Americans are likely to be intolerant generally, e.g. regarding immigration and free-speech. The 2007 survey also found that 29% of foreign-born Hispanics and 32% of African-Americans hold strong antisemitic beliefs, three times more than the 10% for whites.\n\nA 2009 study published in \"Boston Review\" found that nearly 25% of non-Jewish Americans blamed Jews for the financial crisis of 2008–2009, with a higher percentage among Democrats than Republicans. 32% of Democrats blamed Jews for the financial crisis, versus 18% for Republicans.\n\nIn August 2012, the California state assembly approved a non-binding resolution that \"encourages university leaders to combat a wide array of anti-Jewish and anti-Israel actions,\" although the resolution \"is purely symbolic and does not carry policy implications\".\n\nThe US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission brought charges against NCL America Inc., alleging that the company discriminated against seven crew members with Middle East backgrounds. The suit, filed on behalf of the employees, stated that the discrimination led to the plaintiffs losing their jobs aboard the cruise ship \"Pride of Aloha\". The 2006 lawsuit had the company deny the allegations, refusing to accept that it had acted improperly in firing the seven Middle Eastern crew members. Sources stated that the two sides reached a settlement agreement, in which NCL America Inc. has agreed to pay $485,000 to resolve allegations. Additionally, the company also agreed to revise its policies to ensure a workplace that promotes equal employment opportunities.\n\nIn an interview with a conservative website, Saucedo Mercer, a Mexican immigrant who became a U.S. citizen, talked in depth about her views on immigration. She stated the issue was important because people from places other than Mexico were among those coming across the border illegally.\n\n\"That includes Chinese, Middle Easterners. If you know Middle Easterners, a lot of them, they look Mexican or they look, you know, like a lot of people in South America, dark skin, dark hair, brown eyes. And they mix. They mix in. And those people, their only goal in life is to, to cause harm to the United States. So why do we want them here, either legally or illegally? When they come across the border, besides the trash that they leave behind, the drug smuggling, the killings, the beheadings. I mean, you are seeing stuff. It’s a war out there.\"\n\nAfter the Boston Marathon bombing, before the perpetrators Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev were identified, several young men, mostly South Asian or Middle Eastern, were convicted in the court of public opinion.\n\nAttacks in Spain, London, and Bali have increasingly associated people of \"Middle Eastern appearance\" with terrorism. A clearer picture of the impact of these events on Sydney's Muslim, Arabic, and Middle Eastern population emerged from data collected from a hotline between September 12, 2001 and November 11, 2001 by the Community Relations Commission for a Multicultural NSW, during which time 248 incidents were logged. There were seven categories of attack: physical assault; verbal assault; sexual assault; threat; racial discrimination or harassment, damage to property; and media attack. Half of all victims were female; seven out of ten were adults. The largest language groups to use the hotline were Arabic, consisting 52.4% of calls. 47.2% of the incidents occurred in public spaces.\n\nOn 11 December 2005, a violent mob of about five thousand young white Australians gathered on the beach at Cronulla, New South Wales. Waving Australian flags, singing Waltzing Matilda and Australia's national anthem, the mob verbally abused and physically assaulted anyone of Middle Eastern appearance. Five thousand people reportedly gathered at the site and marched through the streets of Cronulla, attacking anyone who they identified as Middle Eastern.\n\nOne victim recalled how the violence erupted when a man deemed to be \"of Middle Eastern appearance\" was walking along the beachfront with his girlfriend and \"two girls turned around and screamed ... 'get off our f__king beaches' [and then] the whole street turned on them\" The riots put the spotlight on two segments of Sydney's population (the white, Anglo-Celtic majority and a Middle Eastern minority) and two parts of the city: the Sutherland Shire Local Government Area (LGA), located in Sydney's southern suburbs where Cronulla Beachis located (known as the Shire); and the Canterbury and Bankstown LGAs, located in south-western Sydney, where most of the city's Lebanese and Middle Eastern immigrants live. Middle Eastern males were tagged as criminal and un-Australian by the media brush of ethnic crime.\n\nIn another incident, two Bangladeshi students were apparently suspected of being Muslims and chased up the street by a violent mob. They managed to escape in their car, though it was attacked and pelted with bottles. In another incident, two young men of Middle Eastern appearance, on their way for a swim, were mobbed and beaten on a train carriage, with both responding police officers and a nearby press photographer fearing there would be a killing.\n\nThe latest incident occurred in 2011, when criminal lawyer of Middle Eastern background, Adam Houda, was arrested for refusing a frisk search and resisting arrest after having been approached by police, who suspected him of involvement in a recent robbery. These charges were thrown out of court by Judge John Connell, who stated, \"At the end of the day, here were three men of Middle Eastern appearance walking along a suburban street, for all the police knew, minding their own business at an unexceptional time of day, in unexceptional clothing, except two of the men had hooded jumpers. The place they were in could not have raised a reasonable suspicion they were involved in the robberies.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17507388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17507388", "title": "Archibald Knox (designer)", "text": "Archibald Knox (designer)\n\nArchibald Knox (9 April 1864 in Cronkbourne near Tromode, Isle of Man – 22 February 1933 in Douglas, Isle of Man), was a Manx designer of Scottish descent. He is best known as being Liberty's primary designer at the height of their success and influence upon UK and International design (to the extent that in Italy, Art Nouveau was known as Stile Liberty). Knox's pioneering and prolific work bridged the Arts and Crafts Movement, Celtic Revival, Art Nouveau, and Modernism.\n\nKnox's hundreds of designs for Liberty made his style widely known, (though not his name, as Liberty kept their designers anonymous). Most of his work for Liberty was for the Tudric (pewter) and Cymric (precious metals) ranges. The gravestone of Liberty's founder, Arthur Lasenby Liberty, was designed by Knox. \n\nHis design talent covered a wide range of objects, ornamental and utilitarian, and included silver and pewter tea sets, jewellery, inkwells, boxes, gravestones, watercolours, graphic designs, calligraphy, a house design, fonts and even bank cheques. \n\nKnox's father, William Knox, was living in Kilbirnie when he married Ann Carmichael from Lismore Island in 1853. They had moved to the Isle Of Man in 1856 with their firstborn, Robert, where William \"an exceptionally ingenious cabinet and machine-maker, joined Moore’s Tromode Works, makers of high quality herring nets and sailcloth.\" William's sister Margaret had been the first Knox to move to Man when she married a Manx fisherman, William Callister in 1856. William Knox later started his own firm \"William Knox’s Engineering Works\" and was joined in his enterprise by four of his sons - Archibald pursuing his own career in art. Besides running a successful steamboat and ferry business, the Knox family mechanised the local fishing fleet, were pioneers in industrial electric lighting on Man and introduced the first motor car to the island. Knox's engineering background may have influenced his design process in that his metalwork designs were produced in the style of ready-to-engineer blueprints.\n\nArchibald, the Knoxs' 5th child (and 5th son), started his schooling at St Barnabas Elementary School, and then attended Douglas Grammar School. At the age of 16 in 1880 Knox enrolled at the newly-opened and innovative Douglas School of Art. The students there considered themselves 'venturesome modernists'. In 1889 Knox was awarded his Art Master's Certificate. During his youth Knox developed a lifelong interest in Celtic art, particularly the carved Celtic and Norse stone crosses on the Isle of Man which date from c.500AD to c.1200AD. In 1893 \"The Builder\" published Knox's article, 'Ancient Crosses in the Isle of Man'.\n\nKnox starting teaching at Douglas School of Art in 1884, while still a student. In 1896 or 1897 Knox was working for / studying with the pioneering designer Christopher Dresser in London. In 1897 he started teaching at Redhill School of Art where his friend A. J. Collister was principal, leaving with him for the Kingston School of Art in 1899. In 1897 Knox also began designing for the Silver Studio. Then, from 1900 to 1904 Knox returned to the Isle of Man, and produced over 400 designs directly for Liberty of London. Then he returned to teach at Kingston Art School (and Wimbledon Art School 1906/7), again following his friend A. J. Collister. \n\nKnox resigned from his post as Head of Design at Kingston School of Art in 1912 following criticism of his teaching. About twenty of his students also quit and set up the Knox Guild of Design and Crafts. Knox was the Master of the Guild and would return to Kingston to exhibit with them. In 1913 he spent a year in the United States, and on his return to Man acted as a censor of internees' letters during World War I. In 1919, after the War, he again took up teaching art at some of the Isle of Man's schools until his death. Knox also produced a variety of design work on the Island for publications, illuminations, and gravestones.\n\nKnox's great late work was an illuminated manuscript titled 'The Deer's Cry'. Each page is a complex interlaced illumination of a line of the prayer known as 'The Deer's Cry' or 'Saint Patrick's Breastplate'. The style, imagery, and colouring of each page reflects the content of each line of the prayer.\n\nKnox told his students a large number of maxims that give an insight into his design principles. Perhaps the primary one was\n“Aim at order, hope for beauty”. Knox wrote on the blackboard for new students, “Never be ordinary, better be nothing than that”. Another maxim was, “Art is in everything if we choose to put it there”. In 1912 Knox wrote to a student “Don’t slacken in your work: work and think – think and work: that is the royal road: there is no other through the forest of art”.\n\nKnox had an innovate method of teaching art: he collected a set of three thousand glass slides, of examples of design work, to show his students. While showing these he encouraged the students to consider the design principles involved in each, and whether the design met the functional requirements.\n\nKnox died of heart failure in 1933 and was buried in Braddan Cemetery. His epitaph reads \"Archibald Knox. Artist. A humble servant of God in the ministry of the beautiful\".\n\nCadran Cottage, Ballanard Road in Douglas, remodelled c.1910 with design by Knox, was listed as a Registered Building of the Isle of Man in 1996. The word Cadran means quadrant on a sundial.\n\nThe first international touring exhibition of Knox's work was in 1996-1998.\n\nThe Archibald Knox Society was founded in 2006. The aim of the Society is the education of the public worldwide in relation to all matters concerning the legacy of Knox. To this end the Society has given lectures, (including an international tour), published journals and helped to organise exhibitions.\n\nTo celebrate the 150th Anniversary of Knox's birth, the Isle of Man Post Office issued a set of 10 stamps featuring his designs, released in April 2014. Also in 2014, an exhibition exploring the work of Knox and his Celtic contemporaries (\"Celtic Style\") was held at the House of Manannan, Peel, Isle of Man. A commemorative concert was held at Peel Cathedral featuring newly composed harp music and also including Manx Gaelic choir music. An exhibition of Knox's work was held at the 42nd Olympia International Art & Antiques Fair in London in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "31779087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31779087", "title": "Asuka-Fujiwara", "text": "Asuka-Fujiwara\n\nAsuka-Fujiwara: Archaeological sites of Japan’s Ancient Capitals and Related Properties is a cluster of archaeological sites from in and around the late sixth- to early eighth-century capitals of Asuka and Fujiwara-kyō, Nara Prefecture, Japan. In 2007, twenty eight sites were submitted jointly for future inscription on the UNESCO World Heritage List under the ii, iii, iv, v, and vi criteria. Currently, the submission is listed on the Tentative List.\n\nSince 2011, the Cultural Landscape of the Asuka Hinterland has been protected as one of the Cultural Landscapes of Japan. An area of 60 ha is also protected within the Asuka Historical National Government Park. Related artefacts are housed at the Asuka Historical Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072230", "title": "Australian Aboriginal sign languages", "text": "Australian Aboriginal sign languages\n\nMany Australian Aboriginal cultures have or traditionally had a manually coded language, a signed counterpart of their oral language. This appears to be connected with various speech taboos between certain kin or at particular times, such as during a mourning period for women or during initiation ceremonies for men, as was also the case with Caucasian Sign Language but not Plains Indian Sign Language, which did not involve speech taboo, or deaf sign languages, which are not encodings of oral language. There is some similarity between neighboring groups and some contact pidgin similar to Plains Indian Sign Language in the American Great Plains. \n\nSign languages appear to be most developed in areas with the most extensive speech taboos: the central desert (particularly among the Warlpiri and Warumungu), and western Cape York. Complex gestural systems have also been reported in the southern, central, and western desert regions, the Gulf of Carpentaria (including north-east Arnhem Land and the Tiwi Islands), some Torres Strait Islands, and the southern regions of the Fitzmaurice and Kimberley areas. Evidence for sign languages elsewhere is slim, but they have been noted as far south as the south coast (Jaralde Sign Language) and there are even some accounts from the first few years of the 20th century of the use of sign by people from the south west coast. However, many of the codes are now extinct, and very few accounts have recorded any detail.\n\nReports on the status of deaf members of such Aboriginal communities differ, with some writers lauding the inclusion of deaf people in mainstream cultural life, while others indicate that deaf people do not learn the sign language and, like other deaf people isolated in hearing cultures, develop a simple system of home sign to communicate with their immediate family. However, an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander dialect of Auslan exists in Far North Queensland (extending from Yarrabah to Cape York), which is heavily influenced by the indigenous sign languages and gestural systems of the region.\n\nSign languages were noted in north Queensland as early as 1908 (Roth). Early research into indigenous sign was done by the American linguist La Mont West, and later, in more depth, by English linguist Adam Kendon.\n\nKendon (1988) lists the following languages:\n\n\nMiriwoong Sign Language is also a developed or perhaps highly developed language.\n\n"}
{"id": "52472907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52472907", "title": "Balala the Fairies (series)", "text": "Balala the Fairies (series)\n\nBalala the Fairies, or Little Fairies, Balala (巴啦啦小魔仙, \"Bālālā xiǎo mó xian\"), is a Chinese magical girl metaseries which first aired in 2008. It is produced by Alpha Co. Group. Each series focuses on a set of magical girls fighting against evil and dark forces while following their ordinary lives and personal wishes. The first in the series was the 52-episode drama \"Balala the Fairies\", and the series is praised as an advance of Chinese animation programs.\n\nCurrently, it is airing the third series, \"Ocean Magic\".\n\nEach stories focus to some group of girls, majority Chinese school girls, whom are granted magical powers and talents and transform into the legendary warriors known as \"Fairies of Balala\" to fight against unknown evil forces. Their strength will be contested many times, until they find out. They will also gain more new items, stuffs and abilities to fight evil, as the enemies getting stronger from time.\n\n\nThere are currently five Balala the Fairies cartoon series. Two of them are sequel of the previous series.\n\n\n\nWhile the series is praised, some critics aimed to the fact that the series is somewhat too similar to Japan's Pretty Cure, or in other, copied from the Japanese counterpart.\n\n"}
{"id": "876255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=876255", "title": "Calculus ratiocinator", "text": "Calculus ratiocinator\n\nThe Calculus ratiocinator is a theoretical universal logical calculation framework, a concept described in the writings of Gottfried Leibniz, usually paired with his more frequently mentioned \"characteristica universalis\", a universal conceptual language.\n\nThere are two contrasting points of view on what Leibniz meant by \"calculus ratiocinator\". The first is associated with computer software, the second is associated with computer hardware.\n\n\n\nLeibniz constructed just such a machine for mathematical calculations, which was also called a Stepped Reckoner. As a computing machine, the ideal \"calculus ratiocinator\" would perform Leibniz's integral and differential calculus. In this way the meaning of the word, \"ratiocinator\" is clarified and can be understood as a mechanical instrument that combines and compares ratios.\nHartley Rogers saw a link between the two, defining the \"calculus ratiocinator\" as \"an algorithm which, when applied to the symbols of any formula of the characteristica universalis, would determine whether or not that formula were true as a statement of science\" (Hartley Rogers, Jr. 1963; p. 934).\n\nA classic discussion of the \"calculus ratiocinator\" is Couturat (1901: chapters 3 and 4), who maintained that the \"characteristica universalis\"—and thus the \"calculus ratiocinator\"—were inseparable from Leibniz's encyclopedic project (chapter 5). Hence the \"characteristic\", \"calculus ratiocinator\", and encyclopedia form three pillars of Leibniz's project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19381675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19381675", "title": "Chesterfield coat", "text": "Chesterfield coat\n\nThe Chesterfield is a formal dark knee-length overcoat with a velvet collar introduced around the 1840s in the United Kingdom, with prominence attributed to its namesake George Stanhope, 6th Earl of Chesterfield, then a leader of British fashion.\nThe Chesterfield coat, with its heavy waist suppression using a waist seam, gradually replaced the over-frock coat during the second half of the 19th century as a choice for a formal overcoat]], and survivided as a coat of choice over the progession from frock coat everyday wear to the introduction of the lounge suit, but remained principally associated with formal morning dress and white tie.\n\nA less formal derivation is the similar but lighter fabric, slightly shorter top coat called covert coat.\n\nThe dark Chesterfield, which comes with a defining velvet collar has no horizontal seam or sidebodies, but can still be somewhat shaped using the side seams and darts. It can be single- or double-breasted, and has been popular in a wide variety of fabrics, typically heavier weight tweeds, or charcoal and navy, and even the camel hair classic, although such fabrics may be more associated with a more casual polo coat. These variations make it extremely versatile, so it can be worn with a city suit or even semi-formal dress, as well as casual sports jackets. It was a staple of smartly dressed men's wardrobes from the 1920s to 1960s, and has become a classic style for both men and even women.\n\n"}
{"id": "1923916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923916", "title": "Coat of arms of the Falkland Islands", "text": "Coat of arms of the Falkland Islands\n\nThe coat of arms of the Falkland Islands was granted to the Falkland Islands on 29 September 1948. It consists of a shield containing a ram on tussock grass in the field with a sailing ship underneath and the motto of the Falklands (\"Desire the Right\") below.\n\nThe ship represents the \"Desire\", the vessel in which the English sea-captain John Davis is reputed to have discovered the Falkland Islands in 1592; the motto, \"Desire the Right\", also refers to the ship's name. The ram represents sheep farming, which until recently was the principal economic activity of the islands, and the tussock grass shows the most notable native vegetation.\n\n"}
{"id": "323912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323912", "title": "Cultural ecology", "text": "Cultural ecology\n\nCultural ecology is the study of human adaptations to social and physical environments. Human adaptation refers to both biological and cultural processes that enable a population to survive and reproduce within a given or changing environment. This may be carried out diachronically (examining entities that existed in different epochs), or synchronically (examining a present system and its components). The central argument is that the natural environment, in small scale or subsistence societies dependent in part upon it, is a major contributor to social organization and other human institutions. In the academic realm, when combined with study of political economy, the study of economies as polities, it becomes political ecology, another academic subfield. It also helps interrogate historical events like the Easter Island Syndrome.\n\nAnthropologist Julian Steward (1902-1972) coined the term, envisioning cultural ecology as a methodology for understanding how humans adapt to such a wide variety of environments. In his \"Theory of Culture Change: The Methodology of Multilinear Evolution\" (1955), cultural ecology represents the \"ways in which culture change is induced by adaptation to the environment.\" A key point is that any particular human adaptation is in part historically inherited and involves the technologies, practices, and knowledge that allow people to live in an environment. This means that while the environment influences the character of human adaptation, it does not determine it. In this way, Steward wisely separated the vagaries of the environment from the inner workings of a culture that occupied a given environment. Viewed over the long term, this means that environment and culture are on more or less separate evolutionary tracks and that the ability of one to influence the other is dependent on how each is structured. It is this assertion - that the physical and biological environment affects culture - that has proved controversial, because it implies an element of environmental determinism over human actions, which some social scientists find problematic, particularly those writing from a Marxist perspective. Cultural ecology recognizes that ecological locale plays a significant role in shaping the cultures of a region.\n\nSteward's method was to:\n\n\nSteward's concept of cultural ecology became widespread among anthropologists and archaeologists of the mid-20th century, though they would later be critiqued for their environmental determinism. Cultural ecology was one of the central tenets and driving factors in the development of processual archaeology in the 1960s, as archaeologists understood cultural change through the framework of technology and its effects on environmental adaptation.\n\nCultural ecology as developed by Steward is a major subdiscipline of anthropology. It derives from the work of Franz Boas and has branched out to cover a number of aspects of human society, in particular the distribution of wealth and power in a society, and how that affects such behaviour as hoarding or gifting (e.g. the tradition of the potlatch on the Northwest North American coast).\n\nOne 2000s-era conception of cultural ecology is as a general theory that regards ecology as a paradigm not only for the natural and human sciences, but for cultural studies as well. In his \"Die Ökologie des Wissens\" (The Ecology of Knowledge), Peter Finke explains that this theory brings together the various cultures of knowledge that have evolved in history, and that have been separated into more and more specialized disciplines and subdisciplines in the evolution of modern science (Finke 2005). In this view, cultural ecology considers the sphere of human culture not as separate from but as interdependent with and transfused by ecological processes and natural energy cycles. At the same time, it recognizes the relative independence and self-reflexive dynamics of cultural processes. As the dependency of culture on nature, and the ineradicable presence of nature in culture, are gaining interdisciplinary attention, the difference between cultural evolution and natural evolution is increasingly acknowledged by cultural ecologists. Rather than genetic laws, information and communication have become major driving forces of cultural evolution (see Finke 2005, 2006). Thus, causal deterministic laws do not apply to culture in a strict sense, but there are nevertheless productive analogies that can be drawn between ecological and cultural processes.\n\nGregory Bateson was the first to draw such analogies in his project of an Ecology of Mind (Bateson 1973), which was based on general principles of complex dynamic life processes, e.g. the concept of feedback loops, which he saw as operating both between the mind and the world and within the mind itself. Bateson thinks of the mind neither as an autonomous metaphysical force nor as a mere neurological function of the brain, but as a \"dehierarchized concept of a mutual dependency between the (human) organism and its (natural) environment, subject and object, culture and nature\", and thus as \"a synonym for a cybernetic system of information circuits that are relevant for the survival of the species.\" (Gersdorf/ Mayer 2005: 9).\n\nFinke fuses these ideas with concepts from systems theory. He describes the various sections and subsystems of society as 'cultural ecosystems' with their own processes of production, consumption, and reduction of energy (physical as well as psychic energy). This also applies to the cultural ecosystems of art and of literature, which follow their own internal forces of selection and self-renewal, but also have an important function within the cultural system as a whole (see next section).\n\nThe interrelatedness between culture and nature has been a special focus of literary culture from its archaic beginnings in myth, ritual, and oral story-telling, in legends and fairy tales, in the genres of pastoral literature, nature poetry. Important texts in this tradition include the stories of mutual transformations between human and nonhuman life, most famously collected in Ovid’s Metamorphoses, which became a highly influential text throughout literary history and across different cultures. This attention to culture-nature interaction became especially prominent in the era of romanticism, but continues to be characteristic of literary stagings of human experience up to the present. \n\nThe mutual opening and symbolic reconnection of culture and nature, mind and body, human and nonhuman life in a holistic and yet radically pluralistic way seems to be one significant mode in which literature functions and in which literary knowledge is produced. From this perspective, literature can itself be described as the symbolic medium of a particularly powerful form of \"cultural ecology\" (Zapf 2002). Literary texts have staged and explored, in ever new scenarios, the complex feedback relationship of prevailing cultural systems with the needs and manifestations of human and nonhuman \"nature.\" From this paradoxical act of creative regression they have derived their specific power of innovation and cultural self-renewal.\n\nGerman ecocritic Hubert Zapf argues that literature draws its cognitive and creative potential from a threefold dynamics in its relationship to the larger cultural system: as a \"cultural-critical metadiscourse,\" an \"imaginative counterdiscourse,\" and a \"reintegrative interdiscourse\" (Zapf 2001, 2002). It is a textual form which breaks up ossified social structures and ideologies, symbolically empowers the marginalized, and reconnects what is culturally separated. In that way, literature counteracts economic, political or pragmatic forms of interpreting and instrumentalizing human life, and breaks up one-dimensional views of the world and the self, opening them up towards their repressed or excluded other. Literature is thus, on the one hand, a sensorium for what goes wrong in a society, for the biophobic, life-paralyzing implications of one-sided forms of consciousness and civilizational uniformity, and it is, on the other hand, a medium of constant cultural self-renewal, in which the neglected biophilic energies can find a symbolic space of expression and of (re-)integration into the larger ecology of cultural discourses. This approach has been applied and widened in volumes of essays by scholars from over the world (ed. Zapf 2008, 2016), as well as in a recent monograph (Zapf 2016).\n\nIn geography, cultural ecology developed in response to the \"landscape morphology\" approach of Carl O. Sauer. Sauer's school was criticized for being unscientific and later for holding a \"reified\" or \"superorganic\" conception of culture. Cultural ecology applied ideas from ecology and systems theory to understand the adaptation of humans to their environment. These cultural ecologists focused on flows of energy and materials, examining how beliefs and institutions in a culture regulated its interchanges with the natural ecology that surrounded it. In this perspective humans were as much a part of the ecology as any other organism. Important practitioners of this form of cultural ecology include Karl Butzer and David Stoddart.\n\nThe second form of cultural ecology introduced decision theory from agricultural economics, particularly inspired by the works of Alexander Chayanov and Ester Boserup. These cultural ecologists were concerned with how human groups made decisions about how they use their natural environment. They were particularly concerned with the question of agricultural intensification, refining the competing models of Thomas Malthus and Boserup. Notable cultural ecologists in this second tradition include Harold Brookfield and Billie Lee Turner II. Starting in the 1980s, cultural ecology came under criticism from political ecology. Political ecologists charged that cultural ecology ignored the connections between the local-scale systems they studied and the global political economy. Today few geographers self-identify as cultural ecologists, but ideas from cultural ecology have been adopted and built on by political ecology, land change science, and sustainability science.\n\nBooks about culture and ecology began to emerge in the 1950s and 1960s. One of the first to be published in the United Kingdom was \"The Human Species\" by a zoologist, Anthony Barnett. It came out in 1950-subtitled \"The biology of man\" but was about a much narrower subset of topics. It dealt with the cultural bearing of some outstanding areas of environmental knowledge about health and disease, food, the sizes and quality of human populations, and the diversity of human types and their abilities. Barnett's view was that his selected areas of information \"...are all topics on which knowledge is not only desirable, but for a twentieth-century adult, necessary\". He went on to point out some of the concepts underpinning human ecology towards the social problems facing his readers in the 1950s as well as the assertion that human nature cannot change, what this statement could mean, and whether it is true. The third chapter deals in more detail with some aspects of human genetics.\n\nThen come five chapters on the evolution of man, and the differences between groups of men (or races) and between individual men and women today in relation to population growth (the topic of 'human diversity'). Finally, there is a series of chapters on various aspects of human populations (the topic of \"life and death\"). Like other animals man must, in order to survive, overcome the dangers of starvation and infection; at the same time he must be fertile. Four chapters therefore deal with food, disease and the growth and decline of human populations.\n\nBarnett anticipated that his personal scheme might be criticised on the grounds that it omits an account of those human characteristics, which distinguish humankind most clearly, and sharply from other animals. That is to say, the point might be expressed by saying that human behaviour is ignored; or some might say that human psychology is left out, or that no account is taken of the human mind. He justified his limited view, not because little importance was attached to what was left out, but because the omitted topics were so important that each needed a book of similar size even for a summary account. In other words, the author was embedded in a world of academic specialists and therefore somewhat worried about taking a partial conceptual, and idiosyncratic view of the zoology of \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nMoves to produce prescriptions for adjusting human culture to ecological realities were also afoot in North America. Paul Sears, in his 1957 Condon Lecture at the University of Oregon, titled \"The Ecology of Man,\" he mandated \"serious attention to the ecology of man\" and demanded \"its skillful application to human affairs.\" Sears was one of the few prominent ecologists to successfully write for popular audiences. Sears documents the mistakes American farmers made in creating conditions that led to the disastrous Dust Bowl. This book gave momentum to the soil conservation movement in the United States.\n\nDuring this same time was J.A. Lauwery's \"Man's Impact on Nature\", which was part of a series on 'Interdependence in Nature' published in 1969. Both Russel's and Lauwerys' books were about cultural ecology, although not titled as such. People still had difficulty in escaping from their labels. Even \"Beginnings and Blunders\", produced in 1970 by the polymath zoologist Lancelot Hogben, with the subtitle \"Before Science Began\", clung to anthropology as a traditional reference point. However, its slant makes it clear that 'cultural ecology' would be a more apt title to cover his wide-ranging description of how early societies adapted to environment with tools, technologies and social groupings. In 1973 the physicist Jacob Bronowski produced \"The Ascent of Man\", which summarised a magnificent thirteen part BBC television series about all the ways in which humans have moulded the Earth and its future.\n\nBy the 1980s the human ecological-functional view had prevailed. It had become a conventional way to present scientific concepts in the ecological perspective of human animals dominating an overpopulated world, with the practical aim of producing a greener culture. This is exemplified by I. G. Simmons' book \"Changing the Face of the Earth\", with its telling subtitle \"Culture, Environment History\" which was published in 1989. Simmons was a geographer, and his book was a tribute to the influence of W.L Thomas' edited collection, \"Man's role in 'Changing the Face of the Earth\" that came out in 1956.\n\nSimmons' book was one of many interdisciplinary culture/environment publications of the 1970s and 1980s, which triggered a crisis in geography with regards its subject matter, academic sub-divisions, and boundaries. This was resolved by officially adopting conceptual frameworks as an approach to facilitate the organisation of research and teaching that cuts cross old subject divisions. Cultural ecology is in fact a conceptual arena that has, over the past six decades allowed sociologists, physicists, zoologists and geographers to enter common intellectual ground from the sidelines of their specialist subjects.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, there are publications dealing with the ways in which humans can develop a more acceptable cultural relationship with the environment. An example is sacred ecology, a sub-topic of cultural ecology, produced by Fikret Berkes in 1999. It seeks lessons from traditional ways of life in Northern Canada to shape a new environmental perception for urban dwellers. This particular conceptualisation of people and environment comes from various cultural levels of local knowledge about species and place, resource management systems using local experience, social institutions with their rules and codes of behaviour, and a world view through religion, ethics and broadly defined belief systems.\n\nDespite the differences in information concepts, all of the publications carry the message that culture is a balancing act between the mindset devoted to the exploitation of natural resources and that, which conserves them. Perhaps the best model of cultural ecology in this context is, paradoxically, the mismatch of culture and ecology that have occurred when Europeans suppressed the age-old native methods of land use and have tried to settle European farming cultures on soils manifestly incapable of supporting them. There is a sacred ecology associated with environmental awareness, and the task of cultural ecology is to inspire urban dwellers to develop a more acceptable sustainable cultural relationship with the environment that supports them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29016342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29016342", "title": "Danish Design Award", "text": "Danish Design Award\n\nThe Danish Design Award is an annual international design prize awarded by the member organization Design denmark and Danish Design Centre in Copenhagen, Denmark. Danish Design Award demonstrates the value and impact of design in Denmark today and inspires and stimulates the use of design and design thinking in companies and society. \n\nThe new partnership behind the Danish Design Award brings together the design industry and the entire country around an annual design event celebrating the difference design can make.\n\nFifty years ago, in 1965, the first Danish design award, the ID Prize was launched. This was followed by the IG Prize in 1980, which merged, into the Danish Design Award in 2000.\n\nNow, the Danish Design Award is presented in a new version as a joint creation from the Danish Design Centre and the alliance of design professionals, Design denmark.\n\nDanish Design Award encompasses all disciplines within the realm of design and adopts a three-dimensional focus on form, function and value creation.\n\nThe fifteen award categories range from design that has created jobs or cut costs over health solutions and resource sharing to visionary concepts demonstrating the wide range and diversity of the capability of design to bring added value.\n\nAcknowledging the best in Danish design with an annual award began in 1965. At that time the award was called the . Danish design had become an important concept, not just in Scandinavia but worldwide. Danish design represented - and continues to represent - simple, pure and aesthetic design with a clear user focus.\n\nIn 1980 the ID Prize had a sister award, the , which celebrated the best industrial graphic design.\n\nIn 2000, the ID Prize and the IG Prize merged to become the Danish Design Prize. With the brief pause in 2005 and 2006, the Danish Design Prize 2007 marked an anniversary for Danish design: the design prizes were awarded for the fortieth time.\n\nA new introduction in 2007 was the Designmatters Award. This award goes to a small or medium-sized company that has made a serious effort to incorporate design and achieved a positive effect on the bottom line. The first recipient of the Designmatters Award was the lighting company Lightyears.\n\nSource: \n\n"}
{"id": "518008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=518008", "title": "Deer in mythology", "text": "Deer in mythology\n\nDeer have significant roles in the mythology of various peoples located all over the world. \n\nIn one of the Jataka tales, Buddha has reincarnated into the form of a deer. This story has many incarnations and names itself: such as \"The Story of Ruru Deer\", \"The Golden Deer\", and the Chinese cartoon \"A Deer of Nine Colors\". The story originated in India around the 4th century BCE. The narrative hails the merits of compassion, empathy, and karma.\n\nThe Insular Celts have stories involving supernatural deer, deer who are associated with a spiritual figure, and spirits or deities who may take the form of deer.\n\nIn some Scottish and Irish tales deer are seen as \"fairy cattle\" and are herded and milked by a tutelary, benevolent, otherworldly woman (such as a \"bean sìdhe\" or in other cases the goddess Flidais), who can shapeshift into the form of a red or white deer. In the West Highlands, this woman of the otherworld selects the individual deer who will be slain in the next day's hunt.\n\nIn Ireland, The \"Cailleach Bhéara\" (\"The Old Woman of Beare\"), who lives on an island off the coast of County Cork, takes the form of a deer to avoid capture, and herds her deer down by the shore. The Beare peninsula is also associated with the islands in the western sea that are the lands of the dead. Other Celtic mythological figures such as Oisin and Sadhbh also have connections to deer.\n\nCernunnos is a mythological figure in Continental Celtic mythology, and possibly one of the figures depicted on the Gundestrup cauldron. He has deer or stag antlers on the top of his head. His role in the religion and mythology is unclear, as there are no particular stories about him.\n\nSaint Giles, a Catholic saint especially revered in the south of France, is reported to have lived for many years as a hermit in the forest near Nîmes, where in the greatest solitude he spent many years, his sole companion being a deer, or hind, who in some stories sustained him on her milk. In art, he is often depicted together with that hind.\n\nDeer figure in the founding legend of Le Puy-en-Velay, where a Christian church replaced a megalithic dolmen said to have healing powers. A local tradition had rededicated the curative virtue of the sacred site to Mary, who cured ailments by contact with the standing stone. When the founding bishop Vosy climbed the hill, he found that it was snow-covered in July; in the snowfall, the tracks of a deer around the dolmen outlined the foundations of the future church.\n\nIn the story of Saint Hubertus, on Good Friday morning, when the faithful were crowding the churches, Hubertus sallied forth to the chase. As he was pursuing a magnificent stag the animal turned and, as the pious legend narrates, he was astounded at perceiving a crucifix standing between its antlers, which occasioned the change of heart that led him to a saintly life. The story of the hart appears first in one of the later legendary hagiographies (\"Bibliotheca hagiographica Latina\", nos. 3994–4002) and has been appropriated from the earlier legend of Saint Eustace (Placidus).\n\nLater in the 6th century, the Bishop Saint Gregory of Tours wrote his chronicles about the Merovingian rulers. \"Historia Francorum\" contains the legend of King Clovis I, who prayed to Christ in one of his campaigns so he could find a place to cross the river Vienne. Considered as a divine sign, a huge deer appeared and showed where the army could pass.\n\nIn the 14th century, probably keeping some relation with Saint Eustace's legend, the deer again appears in Christian legend. The \"Chronicon Pictum\" contains a story where the later King Saint Ladislaus I of Hungary and his brother the King Géza I of Hungary were hunting in a forest, and a deer with numerous candles on his antlers appeared to them. Saint Ladislaus told his brother that it wasn't a deer but an angel of God, and his antlers were wings; the candles were shining feathers. He also stated his intent to build a cathedral in honor of the Holy Virgin in the place where the deer appeared.\n\nSatet, goddess of the hunt, was shown with the horns of a deer, and sometimes a deer's face.\n\nAn Anglo-Saxon royal scepter found at the Sutton Hoo burial site in England features a depiction of an upright, antlered stag. In the Old English language poem \"Beowulf\", much of the first portion of the story focuses on events surrounding a great mead hall called Heorot, meaning \"Hall of the Hart\".\n\nIn the \"Poetic Edda\" poem \"Grímnismál\" the four stags of Yggdrasil are described as feeding on the world tree, Yggdrasil, and the poem further relates that the stag Eikþyrnir lives on top of Valhalla. In the \"Prose Edda\" book \"Gylfaginning\", the god Freyr is having once killed Beli with an antler. In \"Þiðrekssaga\", Sigurd is presented as having been nursed by a doe.\n\nAndy Orchard proposes a connection between the hart Eikþyrnir atop Valhalla, the hart imagery associated with Heorot, and the Sutton Hoo scepter. Sam Newton identifies both the Sutton Hoo whetstone and the hall Heorot as early English symbols of kingship. Rudolf Simek says that \"it is not completely clear what role the stag played in Germanic religion\" and theorizes that \"the stag cult probably stood in some sort of connexion to Odin's endowment of the dignity of kings.\"\n\nIn Greek mythology, the deer is particularly associated with Artemis in her role as virginal huntress. Actaeon, after witnessing the nude figure of Artemis bathing in a pool, was transformed by Artemis into a stag that his own hounds tore to pieces. Callimachus, in his archly knowledgeable \"Hymn III to Artemis\", mentions the deer that drew the chariot of Artemis:\nOne of the Labors of Heracles was to capture the Cerynian Hind sacred to Artemis and deliver it briefly to his patron, then rededicate it to Artemis. As a hind bearing antlers was unknown in Greece, the story suggests a reindeer, which, unlike other deer, can be harnessed and whose females bear antlers. The myth relates to Hyperborea, a northern land that would be a natural habitat for reindeer. Heracles' son Telephus was exposed as an infant on the slopes of Tegea but nurtured by a doe.\n\nIn Hindu mythology, the Aitareya Upanishad tells us that the goddess Saraswati takes the form of a red deer called Rohit. Saraswati is the goddess of learning, so learned men use deer skin as clothing and mats to sit upon. A golden deer plays an important role in the epic \"Ramayana\". While in exile in the forest, Rama's wife Sita sees a golden deer and asks Rama and Lakshmana to get it for her. The deer is actually a rakshasa called Maricha in disguise. Maricha takes this form to lure Rama and Lakshmana away from Sita so his nephew Ravana can kidnap her.\n\nThe stag was revered alongside the bull at Alaca Höyük and continued in the Hittite mythology as the protective deity whose name is recorded as \"KAL\". Other Hittite gods were often depicted standing on the backs of stags.\n\nFor the Huichol people of Mexico, the \"magical deer\" represents both the power of maize to sustain the body and of the peyote cactus to feed and enlighten the spirit. Animals such as the eagle, jaguar, serpent and deer are of great importance to the Mexican indigenous cultures. For each group, however, one of these animals is of special significance and confers some of its qualities to the tribe.\n\nFor the Huichol it is the deer that holds this intimate role. The character of the Huichol tends to be light, flexible and humorous. They have avoided open warfare, neither fighting against the Spanish nor Mexican governments, but holding to their own traditions. The Huichol hunt and sacrifice deer in their ceremonies. They make offerings to the Deer of the Maize to care for their crops, and to the Deer of the Peyote to bring them spiritual guidance and artistic inspiration.\n\nIn Hungarian mythology, Hunor and Magor, the founders of the Magyar peoples, chased a white stag in a hunt. The stag lead them into unknown land that they named Scythia. Hunor and Magor populated Scythia with their descendants the Huns and the Magyars. To this day, an important emblem in Hungary is a many-antlered stag with its head turned back over its shoulder.\n\nTurkic peoples that converted to Islam brought with them from the Eurasian Steppe their beliefs and cults involving horns, deer, antlers, hides, etc. In the Ottoman Empire, and more specifically in western Asia Minor and Thrace the deer cult seems to have been widespread and much alive, no doubt as a result of the meeting and mixing of Turkic with local traditions. A famous case is the 13th century holy man Geyiklü Baba, ‘Father Deer’, who lived with his deer in the mountain forests of Bursa and gave hind’s milk to a colleague (compare with Saint Giles) . Material in the Ottoman sources is not scarce but it is rather dispersed and very brief, denying us a clear picture of the rites involved.\n\nThe Tribe Naftali bore a Stag on its tribal banner, and was poetically described as a Hind in the Blessing of Jacob.\n\nIn Jewish mythology – as discussed in the Talmud (חולין נט ע\"ב) – exists a giant kind of stag by the name \"Keresh\". He is said to live in a mythical forest called \"Bei Ilai\".\n\nThe spirit Furfur in The Goetia is depicted as a hart or winged hart.\n\nIn 1914, Hungarian composer Béla Bartók collected two Romanian \"colinde\" in Transylvania. The story is of a father who has taught his nine sons only how to hunt, so they know nothing of work and spend all of their time in the forest. One day while hunting a large and beautiful stag, they cross a haunted bridge and are themselves transformed into stags. The distressed father takes his rifle and goes out in search of his missing sons. Finding a group of fine stags gathered around a spring, he drops to one knee and takes aim. The largest stag (eldest son) pleads with his father not to shoot. The father, recognizing his favorite son in the stag, begs his children to come home. The stag then replies that they can never come home: their antlers cannot pass through doorways and they can no longer drink from cups, only cool mountain springs. Bartók prepared a Hungarian libretto, and in 1930 set the tale to music in his \"Cantata Profana\". It was first performed in London in 1934, in an English translation.\n\nThe Scythians had some reverence for the stag, which is one of the most common motifs in Scythian art. Possibly the swift animal was believed to speed the spirits of the dead on their way, which perhaps explains the curious antlered headdresses found on horses buried at Pazyryk (\"illustration at the top of this article\").\n\nIn Slavic fairytales, Golden-horned deer is a large deer with golden antlers.\n\nGolden or silver deer/elk was a popular folk character at the Urals in the 18th century. There were tales about the mythical creature called Silver Deer, also known as the elk Golden Horns and the goat Silver Hoof.\n\nDeer are considered messengers to the gods in Shinto, especially Kasuga Shrine in Nara Prefecture where a white deer had arrived from Kashima Shrine as its divine messenger. It has become a symbol of the city of Nara. Deer in Itsukushima Shrine, located in Miyajima, Hiroshima, are also sacred as divine messengers. In various parts of Northeast Japan, a deer dance called \"Shishi-odori\" has been traditionally performed as an annual shinto ritual.\n\nQuintus Sertorius, while a general in Lusitania, had a tame white stag which he had raised nearly from birth. Playing on the superstitions of the local tribes, he told them that it had been given to him by the goddess Diana; by attributing all his intelligence reports to the animal, he convinced the locals that it had the gift of prophecy. (See Plutarch's life of Sertorius and Pliny the Elder's chapter on stags [N.H., VIII.50])\n\nThe naming of Sir Francis Drake's ship the \"Golden Hind\" is sometimes given a mythological origin. However, Drake actually renamed his flagship in mid-voyage in 1577 to flatter his patron Sir Christopher Hatton, whose armorial bearings included the crest \"a hind Or.\" In heraldry, a \"hind\" is a doe.\n\nRudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer, as well as the rest of Santa Claus's reindeer, originated as fictional but have become an integral part of Western festive legend.\n\n"}
{"id": "54041957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54041957", "title": "Engineering biology", "text": "Engineering biology\n\nEngineering biology is the set of methods for designing, building, and testing engineered biological systems which have been used to manipulate information, construct materials, process chemicals, produce energy, provide food, and help maintain or enhance human health and environment \n\nRapid advances in the ability to genetically modify biological organisms have advanced a new engineering discipline, commonly referred to as synthetic biology. This approach seeks to harness the power of living systems for a variety of manufacturing applications, such as advanced therapeutics, sustainable fuels, chemical feedstocks, and advanced materials. To date, research in synthetic biology has typically relied on trial-and-error approaches, which are costly, laborious, and inefficient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33925075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33925075", "title": "Ferreruolo", "text": "Ferreruolo\n\nA ferreruolo is a form of a cape, which was popular among Spanish men during the 16th century.\n\nThe garment permitted the wearer ease of access to his sword.\n"}
{"id": "5398930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5398930", "title": "Flores de Mayo", "text": "Flores de Mayo\n\nFlores de Mayo (Spanish for \"flowers of May\") is a festival held in the Philippines in the month of May. It is one of the May devotions to the Blessed Virgin Mary and lasts for the entire month. \n\nThe Santacruzan (from the Spanish \"santa cruz\", \"holy cross\") is the ritual pageant held on the last day of the \"Flores de Mayo\". It honors the finding of the True Cross by Helena of Constantinople (known as \"Reyna Elena\") and Constantine the Great. Its connection with May stems from the May 3 date of Roodmas, which Pope John XXIII deleted in 1960 due to the trend at the time to abolish holy days. The Feast of the Exaltation of the Cross on September 14, which commemorates the recovery of the relic by Emperor Heraclius from the Persians instead of the finding by Saint Helen was all that was retained in the calendar of the New Order.\n\nThe name of the festival is derived from the Spanish language word \"flores\" meaning \"flowers.\" Other names are \"Flores de María\" (\"Flowers of Mary\") and \"Álay\" (Filipino for \"offering\").\n\nIn the Bicol Region, the ritual begins with the recitation of the rosary, and the last day is simply called the \"katapusan\".\n\nThe traditional \"María\" with its respective meaning is said after the recitation of the \"Salve Regina\" in Spanish and the Litany of Loreto. After the ceremony, simple snacks are given to the children who attended the devotion. \"Alabasyón\" (from the Spanish for \"praising\") is the term for prayers sung in honour of the Holy Cross.\n\nThe towns particularly in Iloilo has their respective \"puroks\" or \"streets\" and the barangays which has their respective chapel or house of prayer or even in the church where an image of the Virgin Mary is venerated and children gathers to have a simple catechism and teachings about the life and story of Mary, history of Marian apparitions, Christian doctrines and values, holistic values and virtues and other life's teachings. They were also taught some prayers and some songs uniquely recited only during the \"Flores de Mayo\" and the children offer some flowers before the image of the Virgin Mary as a symbol of love, affection and veneration. This is a commemoration and reminiscent of the Our Lady of Fatima apparition to the three children which first took place on the 13th of May in 1917. After a while, they were offered some snacks. Some churches and areas are giving children some paper tickets for actively participating and doing well during the catechism in which at the end of the month of May which also coincides with the end of the Flores de Mayo, the children redeem the value of the tickets which are school supplies ready for the school opening in June. Santacrusan is usually held during the last few days of May to coincide with the end of the catechism for children.\n\nAmongst the Tagalog people, the custom began after the proclamation of the dogma of the Immaculate Conception in 1854 and after the circa 1867 publication of Mariano Sevilla's translation of the devotional \"Flores de María\" (\"Flowers of Mary\"), also known by its longer title \"Mariquít na Bulaclac nasa Pagninilaynilay sa Buong Buannang Mayo ay Inihahandog nañg mañga Devoto cay María Santísima\" (\"Beautiful Flowers that in the Meditations in the Whole Month of May are Offered by Devotees to Mary Most Holy\").\n\nOne famous May tradition in Batangas (particularly in Lipa) is the \"Luglugan\", or nightly devotion and party honoring the Virgin Mary. Held in structures called \"tuklóng\", devotees offer flowers and prayers to an image of Mary every night. After the prayer, the \"Hermanos\" or \"Hermanas\" for the day will give away treats to the participants, followed by the party. The Luglugan lasts for a month until the \"Tapusan\" (\"ending\") which is marked with a Mass, a Santacruzan and procession of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and capped with a final Luglugan that lasts until the following morning.\n\nA \"Santacruzan\" is a religio-historical beauty pageant held in many cities, towns, and even in small communities throughout the Philippines during the month of May. One of the most colorful aspects of this festival, the pageant depicts the finding of the True Cross by Queen Helena, mother of Constantine the Great. Many movie and television personalities participate in the events and are featured in major \"santacruzan\". This festival became part of Filipino traditions identified with youth, love, and romance.Prior to the \"Santacruzan\", a novena is held in honor of the Holy Cross. The procession itself commemorates the search of the Holy Cross by \"Reyna Elena\" and her son, Emperor Constantine. It is said to have roots in the joyous thanksgiving celebrations that followed the finding of the Holy Cross in Jerusalem and its translation to Constantinople (now İstanbul).\n\nThe participants of this pageant would follow this typical arrangement:\n\n\nEach figure in this group alludes to a title of the Virgin Mary (usually found in the Litany of Loreto) or to a figure associated with her. Each letter of the angelic salutation \"AVE MARÍA\" is borne by an \"angel\", or a girl wearing a white dress and wings.\n\n\nIt is quite wise to take note that it is best to omit the title Reyna Emperatriz because having so will duplicate the representation of Saint Helena in the procession. A belief commonly held as to the origin of the two titles existing is the possibility of two women wanting to portray the \"most important\" role in the procession, thus creating the title Reyna Emperatriz.\n\nThe procession is accompanied by the steady beat of a local brass band, playing and singing the \"\" (the Spanish version of the Hail Mary). Devotees hold lighted candles and sing the prayer as they walk. It is customary for males participating in the Santacruzan to wear the traditional Barong Tagalog and that the females wear any Filipiniana-inspired dress.\n\nAfter the procession in some places, there is the \"pabítin\" game (in Cavite, it is called \"agaw-bitin\") that serves as a culminating activity for the children. The \"pabítin\" is a square-shaped bamboo grille or frame to which goodies (candies, fruits, small trinkets, etc.) are tied with thin strings. This grille in turn is tied to a long rope passed over a strong branch or pole some 2 metres above the ground. Children then gather under the frame as the it is slowly lowered, and they then jump as high as they could to grab the goodies while someone jerks it up and down repeatedly until all the prizes are gone. Sometimes the \"palosebo\" (the local version of the greasy pole) is also played, where a tall bamboo pole is smeared with grease which participants must climb to get a small red banner or a bag with a prize, such as ₱500 or a higher amount.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12835428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12835428", "title": "Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition", "text": "Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition\n\nGiordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition is a 1964 non-fiction book by British historian Frances A. Yates. The book delves into the history of Hermeticism and its influence upon Renaissance philosophy and Giordano Bruno.\n\nWith the publication of \"Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition\", Yates transformed Renaissance historiography. In it, she revealed the hermeticism with which the Renaissance was imbued, and the revived interest in mysticism, magic and Gnosticism of Late Antiquity that survived the Middle Ages. In the face of longstanding conventional interpretations, Yates suggested that the itinerant Catholic priest Giordano Bruno was burned at the stake in 1600 for espousing the Hermetic tradition rather than his affirmation of heliocentricity.\n\nThe book is cited by the bestselling British author Philip Pullman, as a central inspiration for his own writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7042444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7042444", "title": "Intra Asia Network", "text": "Intra Asia Network\n\nThe Intra Asia Network, or IAN, is a loose consortium of cultural workers and creative spaces, artist exchange projects, community engagement initiatives and artist residency programmes operating throughout Asia. This consortium was founded to facilitate the greater mobility of Asia's cultural producers, practitioners, and creative people through the development, promotion and empowerment of artist-in-residency and artist-in-community projects. Membership represents over 15 countries and hundreds of Asian art spaces and initiatives.\n\nThrough the support of Asian Cultural Council Taiwan and other local and international funders, a meeting of 35 Asian artist directors from 15 countries was held in July 2005 in Taiwan. The thrust of the gathering was to discuss the issues and difficulties concerning Asian artists’ mobility and cultural exchange. Asia is in need of understanding itself in both a traditional and contemporary context: a premise of IAN is that 21st century cultural identity in Asia will be understood through movements, projects, and residencies of its own culture workers. The Intra Asia Network for artist residency, mobility, and exchange now comprises members from Taiwan, Cambodia, Thailand, Japan, China, Korea, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, and even Australia and New Zealand.\n\nA second meeting of IAN representatives was held, with the support of Asia Europe Foundation, during the annual conference of Res Artis in Berlin, convened by the ufaFabrik. That gathering involved the leaders of 40 Asian culture NGOs and reaffirmed the need for an action group to share knowledge, resources, experience and collaboration across Asian borders.\n\nThe third conference of IAN was held in South Korea in September 2006. The workshops were held in conjunction with the 2006 Gwangju Bienniale, while the second half of the gathering was held at Ssamzie Space in Seoul. The objectives focused on the common concerns of many Asian directors and cultural leaders: professional development, management of artist’s space and initiatives, and new models for funding, operating, and advocating for the role of artists' mobility and cultural exchange. This most recent gathering was co-sponsored by Artists Forum International (AFI), with support from Arts Council of Korea, City of Gwangju, the Korean Nonprofit Alternative Space Network, and the Prince Claus Fund.\n\nIntra Asia Network is an open source platform for culture organizations.\n\nFollowing the 2005 workshop and conferences, there was a consensus that a formal initiative be formed to help foster more intra-Asian exchanges and cultural dialogue. This objective was further confirmed at the more recent meeting of arts leaders in Seoul in September 2006. Thus Intra Asia Network, a collective consortium, has been established based on a shared vision to use Asian art and culture, and innovative project development, as the medium for a balanced social condition for all parts of Asia.\n\nIntra Asia Network is an open source network to serve and support Asian culture organizations. It will not be formalized as a legal entity, but will remain as an autonomous, flexible and independently structured entity. Membership is free, and all share equally in rights and responsibilities to further the network’s mission. Contributions and commitments are on a voluntary basis. Communications for members and the general public is driven via a website, e-group, blogs and the Internet. Regional workshops and conferences will be planned as supportive opportunities and funding allow.\n"}
{"id": "54794624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54794624", "title": "Julien Belin", "text": "Julien Belin\n\nJulien Belin was a French composer and lutenist active in the second half of the 16th century; he died after 1584.\n\nThe only elements one possesses about his life come from the \"Bibliothèque de La Croix Du Maine\": he is said to be a \"Manceau\"\", therefore a native of Le Mans or surroundings in 1584 in the Maine.\n\nHis collection, published in 1556, reveals René de Saint-François, the great archdeacon of Le Mans, as a probable protector, and shows him as a capable lutenist, developing his own style, notwithstanding the influence of lutenists Francesco Canova da Milano and Albert de Rippe.\n\nIn 1556, he published his \"Premier livre contenant plusieurs motetz, chansons & fantasies reduictz en tabulature de leut\" by Nicolas Du Chemin in Paris with a dedication to René de Saint-François. (read online here). Modern edition by Michel Renault: Éditions du CNRS, 1976 (series \"Le Chœur des Muses : Corpus des luthistes français\").\n\nThe collection contains:\nThe analysis of the pieces reveals that Belin was influenced by the style of Albert de Rippe (of whom he was perhaps a pupil).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4104136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4104136", "title": "Kynodesme", "text": "Kynodesme\n\nA kynodesmē (, English translation: \"dog tie\") was a cord or string or sometimes a leather strip that was worn by some athletes in Ancient Greece and Etruria to prevent the exposure of the glans penis in public. It was tied tightly around the \"akroposthion\", the part of the foreskin that extended beyond the glans.\n\nThe kynodesme was worn temporarily while in public and could be taken off and put back on at will. It could either be attached to a waist band to expose the scrotum, or tied to the base of the penis so that the penis appeared to curl upwards. The public exposure of the penis head was regarded by the Greeks as dishonourable and shameful, something only seen in slaves and barbarians. Modesty and decency demanded that men who showed themselves naked in a public setting, such as athletes or actors, must conceal their glans.\n\nIn Greek and Roman medical practice, the uncontrolled dispersing of semen was thought to weaken men, and was particularly thought to affect the quality of the masculine voice. In ancient Rome, this form of non-surgical infibulation might thus be used by singers as a regimen for preserving the voice.\n\nIt is first alluded to in literature in the 5th century BC, in the partially preserved satyr play \"Theoroi \" by Aeschylus. There is earlier evidence from the images of athletes on Ancient Greek pottery. The Kynodesme was also used by the Etruscans and Romans who called it a ligatura praeputii. The Romans however preferred to use a ring, rather than a band, to conceal the glans known as a fibula.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19625708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19625708", "title": "Learning for a Cause", "text": "Learning for a Cause\n\nLearning for a Cause is a nonprofit student press founded in 2004 by Canadian educator and photographer Michael Ernest Sweet. The initiative operated from Lester B. Pearson High School in Montreal until autumn 2010 when it merged into Youth Fusion Quebec.\n\nLearning for a Cause aimed to increase and strengthen the social and moral sensibilities in high school students by providing them with genuine opportunities to engage as citizens. The flagship project of the initiative was the Publishing Program which allowed Canadian high school students to write and publish on \"REAL\" issues in \"REAL\" books and thereby inspire \"REAL\" change in their communities and indeed their world. More than 1500 high school students were published and made authors through this award-winning initiative.\n\nMore noted publications include Down to Earth, a collection of more than 100 high school students writing in response to global warming and environmental destruction. The volume featured guest writers Roberta Bondar and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Down to Earth was endorsed by a number of celebrities including Martin Sheen, David Suzuki, Farley Mowat and Marc Garneau. Columbia University Philosopher Maxine Greene has said that the project \"is a significant opening to possibility\" and legendary Canadian artist Robert Bateman added that \"Learning for a Cause is what every young person should be doing.\" Down to Earth was a finalist in two categories at the 2009 World Indie Book Awards.\n\nOther publications include Raising Humanity, which features introductions by Emmy-award-winning actor Martin Sheen and Canada's First Astronaut Marc Garneau. The fifth anniversary compilation edition, \"FIVE\", featured the \"best of the best\" from more than 1000 student writers. This volume was endorsed by Hollywood socialite Candy Spelling who also an introduction to the book. \"We Who Listened\" is about Survivor Alex Levin and this book was a finalist for the Governor General's Award for Excellence in Teaching Canadian History in 2011.\n\nThe project and its publications have been featured in the \"Globe and Mail\", \"Montreal Gazette\" Concordia University's papers The Link and The Journal. Features have also appeared in \"34th Parallel Magazine\" and \"Canadian Teacher\". The project and students have also appeared on radio and television on CBC, NPR and CTV on numerous occasions. Again in 2009 both \"Montreal Families Magazine\" and \"The Montreal Gazette\" profiled the project and its new publication \"Raising Humanity\".\n\nLearning for a Cause received a 2006 and 2009 Quebec Entrepreneurial Award and was featured in a Quebec Ministry of Education documentary video.\n\nIn 2009, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper recognized its founder, Michael Ernest Sweet, with a Prime Minister's Award and again in 2012 with the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal for his significant contributions to public education in Canada.\n\nYouth Fusion Quebec, a non-profit, non-partisan organization that establishes partnerships between high schools and universities, in an effort to counter high school drop-out rates, will continue the publishing project with the Learning for a Cause imprint beginning in 2011–12.\n\nMichael Ernest Sweet regained control of Learning for a Cause and its imprints in 2014, effectively demerging from Youth Fusion. The press released a new title in 2014, \"Our Memories, Our History\", which features a foreword by former Canadian Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Paul Martin, P.C., C.C. Learning for a Cause ceased operations permanently in late 2014, following ten years of publishing young writers and charting the way for classroom POD publishing in Canada.\n\nIn 2017, Sweet reinstated the student publishing initiative at the Solomon Schechter School of Manhattan, where middle school students published On Democracy, an anthology about the American republic featuring a foreword by actor Martin Sheen.\n"}
{"id": "44984115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44984115", "title": "Life Cube Project", "text": "Life Cube Project\n\nThe Life Cube Project is a community interactive art installation based upon the creator's idea that if you write something down, it is far more likely to happen. The Life Cube installation encourages members of the community and the general public to decorate it with inspirational writing, paintings, drawings, murals, and tapestries for all its visitors to see. Through four iterations at the annual Burning Man festival in 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2015; thousands of participants touched, climbed, inscribed, painted, and added their personal visions to the Life Cube. In 2014, the Life Cube Project made its way out of Burning Man and into its first major city in the United States as experiential and interactive art.\n\nOver the course of three years, and returning as an Honorarium project in 2015, the Artist and his project team designed, built, and burned Life Cubes at Burning Man. The first Life Cube, an eight-foot square, was planned in 2010 and erected in 2011, and the artist was motivated to build another version of the Life Cube the following year. In 2012, its dimensions expanded to sixteen feet, enhanced by writable surfaces for greater interactivity and a more creative and graphic external skin. The third Cube came together in 2013. It featured a more complex and compelling multi-level architectural design with a pillared facade, more surfaces for writing and drawing, a tapestry wall, colored strobes and spotlights, and giant painted murals.\n\nIn 2013, artist Scott Cohen was invited by the Downtown Project to develop the Life Cube Project for Las Vegas.\n\nIn January 2014, a Life Cube was constructed on an entire city block in the East Fremont district of downtown Las Vegas. Open to the public 24/7, local artists and members of the community painted all of its surfaces. The Life Cube was covered in constantly evolving and overlapping murals, hosting handwritten and painted messages from its visitors who wrote their personal hopes and dreams on \"wish-stick\" postcards and dropped them inside. Locally owned shops, bars, and restaurants joined with the Gay and Lesbian Community Center, churches, and Las Vegas’ City Hall in the project’s goal-setting theme to their constituencies through the satellite cube program. On the night of March 21, the Cube burned in a ceremony involving thousands of participants and viewers.\n\nThe Life Cube returned to downtown Las Vegas in March 2016 and burned on April 2, 2016 in yet another celebration.\n\nIn 2015, a non-burning metal and glass Life Cube was featured at the Reno Sculpture Fest. The 12’ sculpture included murals, Tapestry Walls, and art and wishes contributed by 1,000s of schoolchildren with outreach to prison inmates, recovering addicts, and challenged youth. Unlike previous Cubes, where \"Wish-Stick\" postcards were placed inside and burned, this Cube featured a Wish-Tag Wall, where participants wrote on colorful tags tied to the Cube for others to read.\n\nThe Life Cube was also featured in Yerington, NV in 2015 for a non-burning installation created specifically for the Mason Valley Boys and Girls Club. This installation included a Tapestry Wall consisting of 1,500 8′ by 8′ canvas panels and a Wish-Tag Wall created by students, teachers, staff, and volunteers from nine middle schools and high schools in the area. During this installation, artist Scott Cohen was also invited to speak at the Youth of the Year banquet to encourage students to follow their hopes, wishes, and dreams.\n\nIn October 2016, the Life Cube Project was featured in its first New York installation at the Riverdale School in Bronx, NY. The 12' Cube remained on Jones Lawn for over a week inviting students, parents, faculty, and other visitors to paint, draw, write, and collaborate. This Cube did not burn, but the evolving and inspiring art on the structure invited dozens of participants nonetheless.\n\nThe Life Cube Project was invited to El Paso, TX from October 6 - 8, 2017 for the 10th anniversary of the annual Chalk the Block arts festival, organized by the City of El Paso Museum and Cultural Affairs Department (MCAD). The artist, Scott Cohen, spent ten days leading up to the installation visiting over 20 local schools to talk to students about goal-setting and connecting art with community. He spoke to youth from military families at Fort Bliss as well as folks at Opportunity house, a local shelter. Following these artist talks and workshops, the 12' x 12' brushed metal and canvas Life Cube installation was erected on San Jacinto Square, in the heart of the Arts District of downtown El Paso, and was open to the general public for three days. The Life Cube for Chalk the Block El Paso included all the elements of its signature approach to connecting art and community: live-painting of murals by several local artists, Dream Tags, a Tapestry Wall featuring canvases created by thousands of El Paso students, and—of course—chalk.\n\nDesigned and implemented expressly for the Las Vegas Life Cube Project, nearly one hundred four-foot cubes were distributed to various venues where they were decorated by local artists, teachers, and children of all ages in establishments and schools throughout the Valley. Satellite cubes were gathered and returned to the Life Cube site for the final burn, combining their accumulated wishes with those of the Life Cube.\n\nThe burn usually takes place as a closing ceremony for the Life Cube. The Las Vegas Cubes required the assistance and support of the Las Vegas Fire Department, an expert burn master, a burn perimeter team, a plethora of municipal permits, event organizers, a traffic plan, engineering, fire safety and air quality reports, cleanup crews, and additional provisions for security, hygiene, and disposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "13637796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13637796", "title": "Lining out", "text": "Lining out\n\nLining out or hymn lining, called precenting the line in Scotland, is a form of a cappella hymn-singing or hymnody in which a leader, often called the clerk or precentor, gives each line of a hymn tune as it is to be sung, usually in a chanted form giving or suggesting the tune. It can be considered a form of call and response. First referred to as \"the old way of singing\" in eighteenth-century Britain, it has influenced twentieth century popular music singing styles.\n\nIn 1644, the Westminster Assembly outlined its usage in English churches \"for the present, where many in the congregation cannot read\". Lining out spread rapidly to the Scottish churches where it has persisted longest in Britain. It has survived to the present day among some communities and contexts, including the Gaelic psalmody on Lewis in Scotland, the Old Regular Baptists of the southern Appalachians in the United States, and for informal worship in many African American congregations.\n\nLining out first appears in 17th century Britain when literacy rates were low and books were expensive. Precenting the line was characterised by a slow, drawn-out heterophonic and often profusely ornamented melody, while a clerk or precentor (song leader) chanted the text line by line before it was sung by the congregation. It was outlined for use by the Westminster Assembly for English churches in 1644, and it has persisted longest in Britain in the Scottish Hebrides. Lining out was taken to American colonies by Scottish Gaels, Puritans and Baptists. Psalm-singing and gospel music are a mainstay of African American churchgoers. The great influx of Scottish Presbyterians into the Carolinas introduced African slaves to this form of worship. The style of gospel-singing was also influenced by Scottish Gaelic-speaking settlers from the Western Isles, particularly North Uist. Scottish Gaelic psalm-singing by precenting the line was the earliest form of congregational singing adopted by Africans in America.\n\nThe tide turned against lining out in England and New England in the first quarter of the 18th century, with greater literacy, improved availability of texts such as \"New Version of the Psalms of David\" (1696) by Nahum Tate and Nicholas Brady, and more widely available and better-printed tune collections. Influential clerics in England and America disliked the ragged nature of the singing that resulted as the congregation struggled to remember both the tune and the words from the lining out.\n\nLining out was in most places replaced by \"regular singing,\" in which either the congregation knew a small number of tunes like Old 100th that could be fitted to many different texts in standard meters such as Common Meter, or a tunebook was used along with a word book. There began to be \"singing societies\" of young men who met one evening a week to rehearse. As time went on, a section of the church was allocated for these trained voices to sit together as a choir, and churches voted to end the lining out system (although there was often a transitional phase that had the entire congregation singing from tunebooks like the still-popular \"Sacred Harp\" and others, before this was taken over by using trained choirs; this gave birth to the still vibrant tradition of \"Sacred harp singing\"). We have a vivid picture of the transition in Worcester, Massachusetts:\n\nLining out persisted much longer in some churches in the American South, either through theological conservatism or through the recurrence of the conditions of lack of books and literacy, and in some places is still practiced today. In African American churches this practice became known as \"Dr. Watts Hymn Singing,\" a historical irony given Watts' disapproval of the practice.\n\nSome Christian churches in the U.S. still practice lining out. While some churches calling themselves Primitive Baptist or Regular Baptist use it, this form of singing predominates among the Old Regular Baptist churches. The practice is becoming attenuated in some of them—the leader will begin lining out, but after the first verse or two will say \"Sing on!\", or a part of the service is lined out but other parts are not—so it is unclear how long it will survive.\n\nSome Presbyterian churches in Scotland also still do lining out, though often now in a restricted context, with other hymns being accompanied and not lined out. The practice is now more common in Gaelic Psalm singing than in English, and indeed is often considered a characteristic of Gaelic culture, especially on the Isle of Lewis.\n\nLining of hymns is still widely practiced by the three traditional braches of the Hutterites (Lehrerleut, Dariusleut, Schmiedeleut II). It may also be heard among some conservative Anabaptist churches, such as German Baptist Brethren, Old Order Mennonites, and the Old Order River Brethren.\n\nIn the film \"Coal Miner's Daughter\", lining out is depicted at the funeral of Loretta Lynn's father, Ted Webb.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5139158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139158", "title": "Little Boy from Manly", "text": "Little Boy from Manly\n\nThe Little Boy from Manly was a national personification of New South Wales and later Australia created by the cartoonist Livingston Hopkins of \"The Bulletin\" in April 1885.\n\nIn March 1885, as the New South Wales Contingent was about to depart for the Sudan, a letter was addressed to Premier William Bede Dalley containing a cheque for £25 for the Patriotic Fund 'with my best wishes from a little boy at Manly'. It was Australia's first overseas military adventure, and the little boy became a symbol either of Australian patriotism or, among opponents of the adventure, of mindless chauvinism. Hopkins put the boy in a cartoon, dressed in the pantaloons and frilled shirt associated with English storybook schoolboys of the namby-pamby kind. Over the following decades, he became \"The Bulletin\"'s stock symbol of Young Australia. \n\n"}
{"id": "22332224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22332224", "title": "Living Reviews (journal series)", "text": "Living Reviews (journal series)\n\nLiving Reviews is an open access journal series, which publishes regularly updated peer-reviewed review articles in various fields of science. Its concept of \"living\" articles takes advantage of web-based electronic publishing and allows authors to update their articles with the latest developments and research findings.\n\nThe concept of \"Living Reviews\" was developed by Bernard Schutz and Jennifer Wheary, who started the first journal, \"Living Reviews in Relativity\", in 1998 at the Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics. The series now contains three entries\n\nIn June 2015, the series was sold to Springer Science+Business Media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337101", "title": "Marianne", "text": "Marianne\n\nMarianne () is a national symbol of the French Republic, a personification of liberty and reason, and a portrayal of the Goddess of Liberty.\n\nMarianne is displayed in many places in France and holds a place of honour in town halls and law courts. She symbolizes the \"Triumph of the Republic\", a bronze sculpture overlooking the Place de la Nation in Paris, and is represented with another Parisian statue in the Place de la République. Her profile stands out on the official government logo of the country, is engraved on French euro coins and appears on French postage stamps; it was also featured on the former franc currency. Marianne is one of the most prominent symbols of the French Republic, and is officially used on most government documents.\nMarianne is a significant republican symbol. As a national icon she represents opposition to monarchy and the championship of freedom and democracy against all forms of oppression. Other national symbols of France include the tricolor flag, the national motto \"Liberté, Égalité, Fraternité\", the national anthem \"La Marseillaise\", as well as the coat of arms and the official Great Seal of France.\n\nIn classical times it was common to represent ideas and abstract entities by gods, goddesses and allegorical personifications. Less common during the Middle Ages, this practice resurfaced during the Renaissance. During the French Revolution of 1789, many allegorical personifications of 'Liberty' and 'Reason' appeared. These two figures finally merged into one: a female figure, shown either sitting or standing, and accompanied by various attributes, including the tricolor cockade and the Phrygian cap. This woman typically symbolised Liberty, Reason, the Nation, the Homeland, and the civic virtues of the Republic. (Compare the Statue of Liberty, created as \"Liberty Enlightening the World\" by French artist Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi, with a copy in both Paris and Saint-Étienne.) In September 1792, the National Convention decided by decree that the new seal of the state would represent a standing woman holding a spear with a Phrygian cap held aloft on top of it.\n\nHistorian Maurice Agulhon, who in several well-known works set out on a detailed investigation to discover the origins of Marianne, suggests that it is the traditions and mentality of the French that led to the use of a woman to represent the Republic. A feminine allegory was also a manner to symbolise the breaking with the old monarchy headed by kings, and promote modern republican ideology. Even before the French Revolution, the Kingdom of France was embodied in masculine figures, as depicted in certain ceilings of Palace of Versailles. Furthermore, France and the Republic themselves are, in French, feminine nouns (\"la France\", \"la République\"), as are the French nouns for liberty () and reason ().\n\nThe use of this emblem was initially unofficial and very diverse. A female allegory of Liberty and of the Republic makes an appearance in Eugène Delacroix's painting \"Liberty Leading the People\", painted in July 1830 in honour of the Three Glorious Days (or July Revolution of 1830).\n\nAlthough the image of Marianne did not garner significant attention until 1792, the origins of this \"goddess of Liberty\" date back to 1775, when Jean-Michel Moreau painted her as a young woman dressed in Roman style clothing with a Phrygian cap atop a pike held in one hand that years later would become a national symbol across France. Marianne made her first major appearance in the French spotlight on a medal in July 1789, celebrating the storming of the Bastille and other early events of the Revolution. From this time until September 1792, the image of Marianne was overshadowed by other figures such as Mercury and Minerva. It was not until September 1792 when the new Republic sought a new image to represent the State that her popularity began to expand. Marianne, the female allegory of Liberty, was chosen to represent the new regime of the French Republic, while remaining to symbolise liberty at the same time.\n\nThe imagery of Marianne chosen as the seal of the First French Republic depicted her standing, young and determined. It was symbolic of the First Republic itself, a newly created state that had much to prove. Marianne is clad in a classical gown. In her right hand, she wields the pike of revolution with the Phrygian cap resting on it, which represents the liberation of France. Marianne is shown leaning on a fasces, a symbol of authority. Although she is standing and holding a pike, this depiction of Marianne is \"not exactly aggressive\", representing the ideology of the moderate-liberal Girondins in the National Convention as they tried to move away from the \"frantic violence of the revolutionary days\".\n\nAlthough the initial figure of Marianne from 1792 stood in a relatively conservative pose, the revolutionaries were quick to abandon that figure when it no longer suited them. By 1793, the conservative figure of Marianne had been replaced by a more violent image; that of a woman, bare-breasted and fierce of visage, often leading men into battle. The reason behind this switch stems from the shifting priorities of the Republic. Although the Marianne symbol was initially neutral in tone, the shift to radical action was in response to the beginning of the Terror, which called for militant revolutionary action against foreigners and counter-revolutionaries. As part of the tactics the administration employed, the more radical Marianne was intended to rouse the French people to action. Even this change, however, was seen to be insufficiently radical by the republicans. After the arrest of the Girondin deputies in October 1793, the Convention sought to \"recast the Republic in a more radical mold\", eventually using the symbol of Hercules to represent the Republic. The use of increasingly radical images to symbolise the Republic was in direct parallel to the beginning of the violence that came to be known as the Reign of Terror.\n\nAfter the Reign of Terror, there was a need for another change in the imagery, to showcase the more civil and non-violent nature of the Directory. In the Official Vignette of the Executive Directory, 1798, Marianne made a return, still depicted wearing the Phrygian cap, but now surrounded by different symbols. In contrast to the Marianne of 1792, this Marianne \"holds no pike or lance\", and leans \"languorously\" on the tablet of the Constitution of Year III. Instead of looking straight at the observer, she casts her gaze towards the side, thus appearing less confrontational. Similar imagery was used in the poster of the Republic's new calendar.\n\nThe symbol of Marianne continued to evolve in response to the needs of the State long after the Directory was dissolved in 1799 following the coup spearheaded by Emmanuel-Joseph Sieyès and Napoleon Bonaparte. Whereas Mercury and Minerva and other symbolic figures diminished in prominence over the course of French history, Marianne endured because of her abstraction and impersonality. The \"malleability\" of what she symbolised allowed French political figures to continually manipulate her image to their specific purposes at any given time.\n\nOn 17 March 1848, the Ministry of the Interior of the newly founded Second Republic launched a contest to symbolise the Republic on paintings, sculptures, medals, money and seals, as no official representations of it existed. After the fall of the monarchy, the Provisional Government had declared: \"The image of liberty should replace everywhere the images of corruption and shame, which have been broken in three days by the magnanimous French people.\" For the first time, the allegory of Marianne condensed into itself Liberty, the Republic and the Revolution.\n\nTwo \"Mariannes\" were authorised. One is fighting and victorious, recalling the Greek goddess Athena: she has a bare breast, the Phrygian cap and a red corsage, and has an arm lifted in a gesture of rebellion. The other is more conservative: she is rather quiet, wearing clothes in a style of Antiquity, with sun rays around her head—a transfer of the royal symbol to the Republic—and is accompanied by many symbols (wheat, a plough and the fasces of the Roman lictors). These two, rival Mariannes represent two ideas of the Republic, a bourgeois representation and a democratic and social representation – the June Days Uprising hadn't yet occurred.\n\nTown halls voluntarily chose to have representations of Marianne, often turning her back to the church. Marianne made her first appearance on a French postage stamp in 1849.\n\nDuring the Second Empire (1852–1870), this depiction became clandestine and served as a symbol of protest against the regime. The common use of the name \"Marianne\" for the depiction of \"Liberty\" started around 1848/1851, becoming generalised throughout France around 1875.\n\nThe usage began to be more official during the Third Republic (1870–1940). The Hôtel de Ville in Paris (city hall) displayed a statue of \"Marianne\" wearing a Phrygian cap in 1880, and was quickly followed by the other French cities. In Paris, where the Radicals had a strong presence, a contest was launched for the statue of Place de la République. It was won by the Morice brothers (with Léopold Morice producing the sculpture and the architect François-Charles Morice designing the pedestal), in 1879, with an academical Marianne, with an arm lifted towards the sky and a Phrygian cap, but with her breasts covered. Aimé-Jules Dalou lost the contest against the Morice brothers, but the City of Paris decided to build his monument on the Place de la Nation, inaugurated for the centenary of the French Revolution, in 1889, with a plaster version covered in bronze. Dalou's Marianne had the lictor's fasces, the Phrygian cap, a bare breast, and was accompanied by a Blacksmith representing Work, and allegories of Freedom, Justice, Education and Peace: all that the Republic was supposed to bring to its citizens. The final bronze monument was inaugurated in 1899, in the turmoil of the Dreyfus Affair, with Waldeck-Rousseau, a Radical, in power. The ceremony was accompanied by a huge demonstration of workers, with red flags. The government's officials, wearing black redingotes, quit the ceremony. Marianne had been reappropriated by the workers, but as the representative of the Social and Democratic Republic (\"la République démocratique et sociale\", or simply \"La Sociale\").\n\nFrom the signing of the \"Entente Cordiale\" between France and Britain in April 1904, Marianne and John Bull personalised the agreement in a number of paintings and cartoons, most famously the Punch cartoon by John Bernard Partridge.\n\nFew Mariannes were depicted in the First World War memorials, but some living models of Marianne appeared in 1936, during the Popular Front as they had during the Second Republic (then stigmatized by the right-wing press as \"unashamed prostitutes\"). During World War II, Marianne represented Liberty against the Nazi invaders, and the Republic against the Vichy regime (see Paul Collin's representation). During Vichy, 120 of the 427 monuments of Marianne were melted, while the Milice took out its statues in town halls in 1943.\n\nMarianne's presence became less important after World War II, although General Charles de Gaulle made a large use of it, in particular on stamps or for the referendums. The most recent subversive and revolutionary appearance of Marianne was during May '68. The liberal and conservative president Valéry Giscard d'Estaing replaced Marianne by \"La Poste\" on stamps, changed the rhythm of the \"Marseillaise\" and suppressed the commemoration of 8 May 1945.\n\nDuring the bicentenary of the Revolution, in 1989, Marianne hardly made any public appearance. The Socialist President François Mitterrand aimed to make the celebrations a consensual event, gathering all citizens, recalling more the Republic than the Revolution. The American opera singer Jessye Norman took Marianne's place, singing \"La Marseillaise\" as part of an elaborate pageant orchestrated by avant-garde designer Jean-Paul Goude. The Republic, after harsh internal fighting throughout the 19th century and even the 20th century (6 February 1934 crisis, Vichy, etc.), had become consensual; the vast majority of French citizens were now republicans, leading to a lesser importance of a cult of Marianne.\n\nAt the time of the French Revolution, as the most common of people were fighting for their rights, it seemed fitting to name the Republic after the most common of French women's names : Marie (Mary) and Anne. The account made of their exploits by the Revolutionaries often contained a reference to a certain Marianne (or Marie-Anne) wearing a Phrygian cap. This pretty girl of legend inspired the revolutionaries, and looked after those wounded in the many battles across the country.\n\nA recent discovery establishes that the first written mention of the name of Marianne to designate the Republic appeared in October 1792 in Puylaurens in the Tarn \"département\" near Toulouse. At that time people used to sing a song in the Provençal dialect of Occitan by the poet Guillaume Lavabre: \"\"La garisou de Marianno\" (French: \"La guérison de Marianne\"\"; \"Marianne's recovery (from illness)\"). At the time Marie-Anne was a very popular first name; according to Agulhon, it \"was chosen to designate a régime that also saw itself as popular.\"\n\nSome believe that the name came from the name of the Spanish Jesuit Juan de Mariana, the 16th century Monarchomach, a theoretician of tyrannicide. Others think it was the image of the wife of the politician Jean Reubell: according to an old 1797 story, Barras, one of the members of the \"Directoire\", during an evening spent at Reubell's, asked his hostess for her name—\"Marie-Anne,\" she replied—\"Perfect,\" Barras exclaimed, \"It is a short and simple name, which befits the Republic just as much as it does yourself, Madame.\"\n\nThe description by artist Honoré Daumier in 1848, as a mother nursing two children, Romulus and Remus, or by sculptor François Rude, during the July Monarchy, as a warrior voicing the \"Marseillaise\" on the Arc de Triomphe, are uncertain.\n\nThe name of Marianne also appears to be connected with several republican secret societies. During the Second Empire, one of them, whose members had sworn to overthrow the monarchy, had taken her name.\n\nIn any case, she has become a symbol in France: considered as a personification of the Republic, she was often used on republican iconography – and sometimes caricatured and reviled by those against the republic, especially royalists and monarchists.\n\nThe official busts of Marianne initially had anonymous features, appearing as women of the people. From 1969, however, they began to take on the features of famous women, starting with the actress Brigitte Bardot. She was followed by Mireille Mathieu (1978), Catherine Deneuve (1985), Inès de La Fressange (1989), Laetitia Casta (2000) and Évelyne Thomas (2003).\n\nLaetitia Casta was named the symbolic representation of France's Republic in October 1999 in a vote open for the first time to the country's more than 36,000 mayors. She won from a shortlist of five candidates, scoring 36% among the 15,000 that voted. The other candidates were Estelle Hallyday, Patricia Kaas, Daniela Lumbroso, Lætitia Milot and Nathalie Simon. \n\nIn July 2013, a new stamp featuring the Marianne was debuted by President François Hollande, allegedly designed by the team of Olivier Ciappa and David Kawena. Ciappa claimed that Inna Shevchenko, a high-profile member of the Ukrainian protest group FEMEN who had recently been granted political asylum in France, was a main inspiration for the new Marianne. However, Kawena and his attorney later claimed that Ciappa was falsely representing himself as having had any level of creative input on the artwork. Kawena further stated that Shevchenko, or any other figure that Ciappa claimed to be an inspiration, was in no way the model for the work, and has sued Ciappa for violation of copyright on the Marianne artwork. Ciappa later refuted the claims that Kawena was ignored, and also revealed his legal name (\"David Kawena\" being a pseudonym taken from the \"Lilo & Stitch\" films) in a retaliatory press release; Xavier Héraud, a writer for Yagg (a French LGBT news site), noted that in a 2013 Huffington Post piece by Ciappa he never refers to Kawena and claims authorship of the images within the post. Yagg later reported on a response to their posting from Ciappa where he said that he was not in editorial control of the Huffington Post piece and did not intend to have the phrasing be \"My Marianne\" as accused by Kawena in his suit; Yagg later contacted Huffington Post who informed them that they sent a draft for Ciappa to look at prior to publishing, which is the current version of the article.\n\nBlue-white-red, Marianne, \"Liberté-Égalité-Fraternité\", the Republic: these national symbols represent France, as a state and its values. Since September 1999, they have been combined in a new \"identifier\" created by the Plural Left government of Lionel Jospin under the aegis of the French Government Information Service (SIG) and the public relations officials in the principal ministries. As a federating identifier of the government departments, it appears on a wide range of material—brochures, internal and external publications, publicity campaigns, letter headings, business cards, etc.—emanating from the government, starting with the various ministries (which are able to continue using their own logo in combination with this) and the \"préfectures\" and \"départements\".\n\nMarianne has featured prominently in the Islamic scarf controversy in France as a symbol of a certain idea of Frenchness. The American historian Joan Wallach Scott wrote in 2016 that it is no accident that Marianne is often depicted as bare-breasted regardless of where she is or what she is doing, as this reflects the French ideal of a woman, which has been used as an argument for why Islamic dress for women is not French. Scott wrote the topless Marianne has become \"...the embodiment of emancipated French women in contrast to the veiled woman said to be subordinated by Islam\". Later in 2016, the French Premier Manuel Valls stated in a speech that the burkini swimsuit was an \"enslavement\" of women and that Marianne was usually topless which \"The Economist\" noted: \"The implication seemed to be that women in burkinis are un-French, while true French women go topless.\" In a speech on 29 August 2016, Valls said: \"Marianne has a naked breast because she is feeding the people! She is not veiled, because she is free! That is the republic!\". Angelique Chisafis of \"The Guardian\" newspaper reported: \"The inference that bare breasts were a symbol of France while the Muslim headscarf was problematic sparked scorn from politicians and derision from historians and feminists\". The French president François Hollande sparked much debate in France with his controversial statement \"The veiled woman will be the Marianne of tomorrow\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20458", "title": "Musicology", "text": "Musicology\n\nMusicology () is the scholarly analysis and research-based study of music. Musicology is part of the humanities. A scholar who participates in musical research is a musicologist.\n\nTraditionally, historical musicology (commonly termed \"music history\") has been the most prominent sub-discipline of musicology. In the 2010s, historical musicology is one of several large musicology sub-disciplines. Historical musicology, ethnomusicology, and systematic musicology are approximately equal in size. Ethnomusicology is the study of music in its cultural context. Systematic musicology includes music acoustics, the science and technology of acoustical musical instruments, and the musical implications of physiology, psychology, sociology, philosophy and computing. Cognitive musicology is the set of phenomena surrounding the computational modeling of music. In some countries, music education is a prominent sub-field of musicology, while in others it is regarded as a distinct academic field, or one more closely affiliated with teacher education, educational research, and related fields. Like music education, music therapy is a specialized form of applied musicology which is sometimes considered more closely affiliated with health fields, and other times regarded as part of musicology proper.\n\nThe parent disciplines of musicology include:\n\nMusicology also has two central, practically oriented sub-disciplines with no parent discipline: performance practice and research (sometimes viewed as a form of artistic research), and the theory, analysis and composition of music. The disciplinary neighbors of musicology address other forms of art, performance, ritual and communication, including the history and theory of the visual and plastic arts and of architecture; linguistics, literature and theater; religion and theology; and sport. Musical knowledge is applied in medicine, education, and music therapy—which, effectively, are parent disciplines of applied musicology.\n\nMusic history or historical musicology is concerned with the composition, performance, reception, and criticism of music over time. Historical studies of music are for example concerned with a composer's life and works, the developments of styles and genres, \"e.g.\", baroque concertos, the social function of music for a particular group of people, \"e.g.\", court music, or modes of performance at a particular place and time, \"e.g.\", Johann Sebastian Bach's choir in Leipzig. Like the comparable field of art history, different branches and schools of historical musicology emphasize different types of musical works and approaches to music. There are also national differences in various definitions of historical musicology. In theory, \"music history\" could refer to the study of the history of any type or genre of music, \"e.g.\", the history of Indian music or the history of rock. In practice, these research topics are more often considered within ethnomusicology (see below) and \"historical musicology\" is typically assumed to imply Western Art music of the European tradition.\n\nThe methods of historical musicology include source studies (especially manuscript studies), paleography, philology (especially textual criticism), style criticism, historiography (the choice of historical method), musical analysis (analysis of music to find \"inner coherence\"), and iconography. The application of musical analysis to further these goals is often a part of music history, though pure analysis or the development of new tools of music analysis is more likely to be seen in the field of music theory. Music historians create a number of written products, ranging from journal articles describing their current research, new editions of musical works, biographies of composers and other musicians, book-length studies or university textbook chapters or entire textbooks. Music historians may examine issues in a close focus, as in the case of scholars who examine the relationship between words and music for a given composer's art songs. On the other hand, some scholars take a broader view, and assess the place of a given type of music, such as the symphony in society using techniques drawn from other fields, such as economics, sociology, or philosophy.\n\n\"New musicology\" is a term applied since the late 1980s to a wide body of work emphasizing cultural study, analysis, and criticism of music. Such work may be based on feminist, gender studies, queer theory, or postcolonial theory, or the work of Theodor W. Adorno. Although New Musicology emerged from within historical musicology, the emphasis on cultural study within the Western art music tradition places New Musicology at the junction between historical, ethnological and sociological research in music.\n\nNew musicology was a reaction against traditional historical musicology, which according to Susan McClary, \"fastidiously declares issues of musical signification off-limits to those engaged in legitimate scholarship.\" Charles Rosen, however, retorts that McClary, \"sets up, like so many of the 'new musicologists', a straw man to knock down, the dogma that music has no meaning, and no political or social significance.\" Today, many musicologists no longer distinguish between musicology and new musicology, since many of the scholarly concerns once associated with new musicology have now become mainstream, and they feel the term \"new\" no longer applies.\n\nEthnomusicology, formerly comparative musicology, is the study of music in its cultural context. It is often considered the anthropology or ethnography of music. Jeff Todd Titon has called it the study of \"people making music\". Although it is most often concerned with the study of non-Western musics, it also includes the study of Western music from an anthropological or sociological perspective, cultural studies and sociology as well as other disciplines in the social sciences and humanities. Some ethnomusicologists primarily conduct historical studies, but the majority are involved in long-term participant observation, or combine ethnographic and historical approaches in their fieldwork. Therefore, ethnomusiological scholarship can be characterized as featuring a substantial, intensive fieldwork component, often involving long-term residence within the community studied.\nClosely related to ethnomusiology is the emerging branch of sociomusicology. For instance, Ko (2011) proposed the hypothesis of \"Biliterate and Trimusical\" in Hong Kong sociomusicology.\n\nPopular music studies, known, \"misleadingly,\" as \"popular musicology\", emerged in the 1980s as an increasing number of musicologists, ethnomusicologists, and other varieties of historians of American and European culture began to write about popular musics past and present. The first journal focusing on popular music studies was Popular Music, which began publication in 1981. The same year an academic society solely devoted to the topic was formed, the International Association for the Study of Popular Music. The Association's founding was partly motivated by the interdisciplinary agenda of popular musicology though the group has been characterized by a polarized 'musicological' and 'sociological' approach also typical of popular musicology.\n\nMusic theory is a field of study that describes the elements of music and includes the development and application of methods for composing and for analyzing music through both notation and, on occasion, musical sound itself. Broadly, theory may include any statement, belief, or conception of or about music (Boretz, 1995). A person who studies or practices music theory is a music theorist.\n\nSome music theorists attempt to explain the techniques composers use by establishing rules and patterns. Others model the experience of listening to or performing music. Though extremely diverse in their interests and commitments, many Western music theorists are united in their belief that the acts of composing, performing, and listening to music may be explicated to a high degree of detail (this, as opposed to a conception of musical expression as fundamentally ineffable except in musical sounds). Generally, works of music theory are both descriptive and prescriptive, attempting both to define practice and to influence later practice. Thus, music theory generally lags behind practice but also points towards future exploration, composition, and performance.\n\nMusicians study music theory to understand the structural relationships in the (nearly always notated) music. Composers study music theory to understand how to produce effects and structure their own works. Composers may study music theory to guide their precompositional and compositional decisions. Broadly speaking, music theory in the Western tradition focuses on harmony and counterpoint, and then uses these to explain large scale structure and the creation of melody.\n\nMusic psychology applies the content and methods of all subdisciplines of psychology (perception, cognition, motivation, etc.) to understand how music is created, perceived, responded to, and incorporated into individuals' and societies' daily lives. Its primary branches include cognitive musicology, which emphasizes the use of computational models for human musical abilities and cognition, and the cognitive neuroscience of music, which studies the way that music perception and production manifests in the brain using the methodologies of cognitive neuroscience. While aspects of the field can be highly theoretical, much of modern music psychology seeks to optimize the practices and professions of music performance, composition, education, and therapy.\n\nPerformance practice draws on many of the tools of historical musicology to answer the specific question of how music was performed in various places at various times in the past. Although previously confined to early music, recent research in performance practice has embraced questions such as how the early history of recording affected the use of vibrato in classical music, or instruments in Klezmer.\n\nWithin the rubric of musicology, performance practice tends to emphasize the collection and synthesis of evidence about how music should be performed. The important other side, learning how to sing authentically or perform a historical instrument is usually part of conservatory or other performance training. However, many top researchers in performance practice are also excellent musicians.\n\nMusic performance research (or music performance science) is strongly associated with music psychology. It aims to document and explain the psychological, physiological, sociological and cultural details of how music is actually performed (rather than how it should be performed). The approach to research tends to be systematic and empirical, and to involve the collection and analysis of both quantitative and qualitative data. The findings of music performance research can often be applied in music education.\n\nMusicologists in tenure track professor positions typically hold a Ph.D in musicology. In the 1960s and 1970s, some musicologists obtained professor positions with an M.A. as their highest degree, but in the 2010s, the Ph.D is the standard minimum credential for tenure track professor positions. As part of their initial training, musicologists typically complete a B.Mus or a B.A. in music (or a related field such as history) and in many cases an M.A. in musicology. Some individuals apply directly from a bachelor's degree to a Ph.D, and in these cases, they may not receive an M.A. In the 2010s, given the increasingly interdisciplinary nature of university graduate programs, some applicants for musicology Ph.D programs may have academic training both in music and outside of music (e.g., a student may apply with a B.Mus and an M.A. in psychology). In music education, individuals may hold an M.Ed and an Ed.D.\n\nMost musicologists work as instructors, lecturers or professors in colleges, universities or conservatories. The job market for tenure track professor positions is very competitive. Entry-level applicants must hold a completed Ph.D or the equivalent degree and applicants to more senior professor positions must have a strong record of publishing in peer-reviewed journals. Some Ph.D-holding musicologists are only able to find insecure positions as sessional lecturers. The job tasks of a musicologist are the same as those of a professor in any other humanities discipline: she teaches undergraduate and/or graduate classes in her area of specialization and, in many cases some general courses (such as Music Appreciation or Introduction to Music History), conducts research in her area of expertise, publishes articles about her research in peer-reviewed journals, authors book chapters, books or textbooks, travels to conferences to give talks on her research and learn about research in her field, and, if her program includes a graduate school, supervises M.A. and Ph.D students and gives them guidance on the preparation of their theses and dissertations. Some musicology professors may take on senior administrative positions in their institution, such as Dean or Chair of the School of Music.\n\nThe vast majority of major musicologists and music historians from past generations have been men, as in the 19th century and early 20th century; women's involvement in teaching music was mainly in elementary and secondary music teaching. Nevertheless, some women musicologists have reached the top ranks of the profession. Carolyn Abbate (born 1956) is an American musicologist who did her PhD at Princeton University. She has been described by the \"Harvard Gazette\" as \"one of the world's most accomplished and admired music historians\". \n\nSusan McClary (born 1946) is a musicologist associated with the \"New Musicology\" who incorporates feminist music criticism in her work. McClary holds a PhD from Harvard University. One of her best known works is \"Feminine Endings\" (1991), which covers musical constructions of gender and sexuality, gendered aspects of traditional music theory, gendered sexuality in musical narrative, music as a gendered discourse and issues affecting women musicians. In the book, McClary suggests that the sonata form (used in symphonies and string quartets) may be a sexist or misogynistic procedure that constructs gender and sexual identity. McClary's \"Conventional Wisdom\" (2000) argues that the traditional musicological assumption of the existence of \"purely musical\" elements, divorced from culture and meaning, the social and the body, is a conceit used to veil the social and political imperatives of the worldview that produces the classical canon most prized by supposedly objective musicologists.\n\nOther notable women scholars include:\n\n\n\nAlthough many musicology journals are not available on-line, or are only available through pay-for-access portals, a sampling of peer reviewed journals in various subfields gives some idea of musicological writings:\n\nThe following musicology journals can be accessed on-line through JSTOR (requires subscription for full access). Many of them have their latest issues available on-line via publisher portals (usually requiring a fee for access).\n\n"}
{"id": "57801331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57801331", "title": "National Conservatory of Azerbaijan", "text": "National Conservatory of Azerbaijan\n\nOn June 13, 2000, the third President of Azerbaijan--then Heydar Aliyev--issued a special order for the establishment of the National Conservatory of Azerbaijan (NCA) located in Baku, the capital of country. In accordance with this order, national artist Siyavush Karimi Ashraf was elected to the position of Rector of the Conservatory. The following year, Baku Music College and Republic Art Gymnasium were added to further expand the institution. The former and current professors of the conservatory hold expertise in various diverse backgrounds including conducting, composition, and singing. Many are professional musicians or prominent social public figures.\n\nThe Department of Human Resources encompasses various subsets and their duties including those of the Board of Directors, Supervisory and Audit Commission members, and their various personal affairs. There are within the authority and responsibility of the Human Resources Department. \n\nThe Department of Youth and Sport operates for the organizing of youth leisure time via athletic activities and the development of various policy at the Azerbaijan National Conservatory Association. These activities include football (US. Soccer), volleyball, basketball, youth patriotism clubs, and a charity-run association named after Uzeyir Hajibeyov. \n\nThe Department of International Relations allows for opportunities for connection between local and foreign students at the university. The Department additionally organizes various opportunities for the participation for the students in foreign training and consular projects.\n\nThe Department of Projects crowdsources its projects and initiatives from the students' ideas, incentivizing a culture of students who want to build, create, become active, and realize their passions. The varying diversity of projects benefit the culture of the university and the broader local community.\n\nThe Department of Science and Education aims to help the development of the students' intellectual abilities. The Department carries out various educational projects and organizes diverse training and scientific conferences and works in tandem with the Student Scientific Society, the Conversation Club, the Theater Club, and the Book Club(s), all of which, fall under the Science and Education Department umbrella. \n\nMusic of Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "16981683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16981683", "title": "Network science", "text": "Network science\n\nNetwork science is an academic field which studies complex networks such as telecommunication networks, computer networks, biological networks, cognitive and semantic networks, and social networks, considering distinct elements or actors represented by \"nodes\" (or \"vertices\") and the connections between the elements or actors as \"links\" (or \"edges\"). The field draws on theories and methods including graph theory from mathematics, statistical mechanics from physics, data mining and information visualization from computer science, inferential modeling from statistics, and social structure from sociology. The United States National Research Council defines network science as \"the study of network representations of physical, biological, and social phenomena leading to predictive models of these phenomena.\"\n\nThe study of networks has emerged in diverse disciplines as a means of analyzing complex relational data. The earliest known paper in this field is the famous Seven Bridges of Königsberg written by Leonhard Euler in 1736. Euler's mathematical description of vertices and edges was the foundation of graph theory, a branch of mathematics that studies the properties of pairwise relations in a network structure. The field of graph theory continued to develop and found applications in chemistry (Sylvester, 1878).\n\nDénes Kőnig, a Hungarian mathematician and professor, wrote the first book in Graph Theory, entitled \"Theory of finite and infinite graphs\", in 1936.\n\nIn the 1930s Jacob Moreno, a psychologist in the Gestalt tradition, arrived in the United States. He developed the sociogram and presented it to the public in April 1933 at a convention of medical scholars. Moreno claimed that \"before the advent of sociometry no one knew what the interpersonal structure of a group 'precisely' looked like (Moreno, 1953). The sociogram was a representation of the social structure of a group of elementary school students. The boys were friends of boys and the girls were friends of girls with the exception of one boy who said he liked a single girl. The feeling was not reciprocated. This network representation of social structure was found so intriguing that it was printed in The New York Times (April 3, 1933, page 17). The sociogram has found many applications and has grown into the field of social network analysis.\n\nProbabilistic theory in network science developed as an offshoot of graph theory with Paul Erdős and Alfréd Rényi's eight famous papers on random graphs. For social networks the exponential random graph model or p* is a notational framework used to represent the probability space of a tie occurring in a social network. An alternate approach to network probability structures is the network probability matrix, which models the probability of edges occurring in a network, based on the historic presence or absence of the edge in a sample of networks.\n\nIn 1998, David Krackhardt and Kathleen Carley introduced the idea of a meta-network with the PCANS Model. They suggest that \"all organizations are structured along these three domains, Individuals, Tasks, and Resources\". Their paper introduced the concept that networks occur across multiple domains and that they are interrelated. This field has grown into another sub-discipline of network science called dynamic network analysis.\n\nMore recently other network science efforts have focused on mathematically describing different network topologies. Duncan Watts reconciled empirical data on networks with mathematical representation, describing the small-world network. Albert-László Barabási and Reka Albert developed the scale-free network which is a loosely defined network topology that contains hub vertices with many connections, that grow in a way to maintain a constant ratio in the number of the connections versus all other nodes. Although many networks, such as the internet, appear to maintain this aspect, other networks have long tailed distributions of nodes that only approximate scale free ratios.\n\nThe U.S. military first became interested in network-centric warfare as an operational concept based on network science in 1996. John A. Parmentola, the U.S. Army Director for Research and Laboratory Management, proposed to the Army’s Board on Science and Technology (BAST) on December 1, 2003 that Network Science become a new Army research area. The BAST, the Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences for the National Research Council (NRC) of the National Academies, serves as a convening authority for the discussion of science and technology issues of importance to the Army and oversees independent Army-related studies conducted by the National Academies. The BAST conducted a study to find out whether identifying and funding a new field of investigation in basic research, Network Science, could help close the gap between what is needed to realize Network-Centric Operations and the current primitive state of fundamental knowledge of networks.\n\nAs a result, the BAST issued the NRC study in 2005 titled Network Science (referenced above) that defined a new field of basic research in Network Science for the Army. Based on the findings and recommendations of that study and the subsequent 2007 NRC report titled Strategy for an Army Center for Network Science, Technology, and Experimentation, Army basic research resources were redirected to initiate a new basic research program in Network Science. To build a new theoretical foundation for complex networks, some of the key Network Science research efforts now ongoing in Army laboratories address:\n\n\nAs initiated in 2004 by Frederick I. Moxley with support he solicited from David S. Alberts, the Department of Defense helped to establish the first Network Science Center in conjunction with the U.S. Army at the United States Military Academy (USMA). Under the tutelage of Dr. Moxley and the faculty of the USMA, the first interdisciplinary undergraduate courses in Network Science were taught to cadets at West Point. In order to better instill the tenets of network science among its cadre of future leaders, the USMA has also instituted a five-course undergraduate minor in Network Science.\n\nIn 2006, the U.S. Army and the United Kingdom (UK) formed the Network and Information Science International Technology Alliance, a collaborative partnership among the Army Research Laboratory, UK Ministry of Defense and a consortium of industries and universities in the U.S. and UK. The goal of the alliance is to perform basic research in support of Network- Centric Operations across the needs of both nations.\n\nIn 2009, the U.S. Army formed the Network Science CTA, a collaborative research alliance among the Army Research Laboratory, CERDEC, and a consortium of about 30 industrial R&D labs and universities in the U.S. The goal of the alliance is to develop a deep understanding of the underlying commonalities among intertwined social/cognitive, information, and communications networks, and as a result improve our ability to analyze, predict, design, and influence complex systems interweaving many kinds of networks.\n\nSubsequently, as a result of these efforts, the U.S. Department of Defense has sponsored numerous research projects that support Network Science.\n\nOften, networks have certain attributes that can be calculated to analyze the properties & characteristics of the network. The behavior of these network properties often define network models and can be used to analyze how certain models contrast to each other. Many of the definitions for other terms used in network science can be found in Glossary of graph theory.\n\nThe size of a network can refer to the number of nodes formula_1 or, less commonly, the number of edges formula_2 which (for connected graphs with no multi-edges) can range from formula_3 (a tree) to formula_4 (a complete graph). In the case of a simple graph (a network in which at most one (undirected) edge exists between each pair of vertices, and in which no vertices connect to themselves), we have formula_5; for directed graphs (with no self-connected nodes), formula_6; for directed graphs with self-connections allowed, formula_7. In the circumstance of a graph within which multiple edges may exist between a pair of vertices, formula_8.\n\nThe density formula_9 of a network is defined as a ratio of the number of edges formula_2 to the number of possible edges in a network with formula_1 nodes, given (in the case of simple graphs) by the binomial coefficient formula_12, giving formula_13\nAnother possible equation is formula_14 whereas the ties formula_15 are unidirectional (Wasserman & Faust 1994). This gives a better overview over the network density, because unidirectional relationships can be measured.\n\nThe density formula_9 of a network, where there is no intersection between edges, is defined as a ratio of the number of edges formula_2 to the number of possible edges in a network with formula_1 nodes, given by a graph with no intersecting edges formula_19, giving formula_20\n\nThe degree formula_21 of a node is the number of edges connected to it. Closely related to the density of a network is the average degree, formula_22 (or, in the case of directed graphs, formula_23, the former factor of 2 arising from each edge in an undirected graph contributing to the degree of two distinct vertices). In the ER random graph model (formula_24) we can compute the expected value of formula_25 (equal to the expected value of formula_21 of an arbitrary vertex): a random vertex has formula_3 other vertices in the network available, and with probability formula_28, connects to each. Thus, formula_29.\n\nThe average shortest path length is calculated by finding the shortest path between all pairs of nodes, and taking the average over all paths of the length thereof (the length being the number of intermediate edges contained in the path, i.e., the distance formula_30 between the two vertices formula_31 within the graph). This shows us, on average, the number of steps it takes to get from one member of the network to another. The behavior of the expected average shortest path length (that is, the ensemble average of the average shortest path length) as a function of the number of vertices formula_1 of a random network model defines whether that model exhibits the small-world effect; if it scales as formula_33, the model generates small-world nets. For faster-than-logarithmic growth, the model does not produce small worlds. The special case of formula_34 is known as ultra-small world effect.\n\nAs another means of measuring network graphs, we can define the diameter of a network as the longest of all the calculated shortest paths in a network. It is the shortest distance between the two most distant nodes in the network. In other words, once the shortest path length from every node to all other nodes is calculated, the diameter is the longest of all the calculated path lengths. The diameter is representative of the linear size of a network.\n\nThe clustering coefficient is a measure of an \"all-my-friends-know-each-other\" property. This is sometimes described as the friends of my friends are my friends. More precisely, the clustering coefficient of a node is the ratio of existing links connecting a node's neighbors to each other to the maximum possible number of such links. The clustering coefficient for the entire network is the average of the clustering coefficients of all the nodes. A high clustering coefficient for a network is another indication of a small world.\n\nThe clustering coefficient of the formula_35'th node is\nwhere formula_37 is the number of neighbours of the formula_35'th node, and formula_39 is the number of connections between these neighbours. The maximum possible number of connections between neighbors is, then,\n(IHM) of degrees of the formula_37 neighbors of a node formula_35. Extensive numerical investigation suggest that for an approximately formula_43 the mean IHM value in the large formula_1 limit becomes a constant which means formula_45. It implies that the higher the\nlinks (degree) a node has, the higher its chance of gaining more links since they can be\nreached in a larger number of ways through mediators which essentially embodies the intuitive\nidea of rich get richer mechanism (or the preferential attachment rule of the Barabasi–Albert model). Therefore, the MDA network can be seen to follow\nthe PA rule but in disguise.\n\nHowever, for formula_46 it describes the winner takes it all mechanism as we find that almost formula_47 of the total nodes have degree one and one is super-rich in degree. As formula_48 value increases the disparity between the super rich and poor decreases and as formula_49 we find a transition from rich get super richer to rich get richer mechanism.\n\nAnother model where the key ingredient is the nature of the vertex has been introduced by Caldarelli et al. Here a link is created between two vertices formula_50 with a probability given by a linking function formula_51 of the fitnesses of the vertices involved.\nThe degree of a vertex i is given by \n\nIf formula_53 is an invertible and increasing function of formula_54, then\nthe probability distribution formula_55 is given by\n\nAs a result, if the fitnesses formula_57 are distributed as a power law, then also the node degree does.\n\nLess intuitively with a fast decaying probability distribution as\nformula_58 together with a linking function of the kind\n\nwith formula_60 a constant and formula_61 the Heavyside function, we also obtain\nscale-free networks.\n\nSuch model has been successfully applied to describe trade between nations by using GDP as fitness for the various nodes formula_50 and a linking function of the kind\n\nSocial network analysis examines the structure of relationships between social entities. These entities are often persons, but may also be groups, organizations, nation states, web sites, scholarly publications.\n\nSince the 1970s, the empirical study of networks has played a central role in social science, and many of the mathematical and statistical tools used for studying networks have been first developed in sociology. Amongst many other applications, social network analysis has been used to understand the diffusion of innovations, news and rumors. Similarly, it has been used to examine the spread of both diseases and health-related behaviors. It has also been applied to the study of markets, where it has been used to examine the role of trust in exchange relationships and of social mechanisms in setting prices. Similarly, it has been used to study recruitment into political movements and social organizations. It has also been used to conceptualize scientific disagreements as well as academic prestige. More recently, network analysis (and its close cousin traffic analysis) has gained a significant use in military intelligence, for uncovering insurgent networks of both hierarchical and leaderless nature.\n\nDynamic network analysis examines the shifting structure of relationships among different classes of entities in complex socio-technical systems effects, and reflects social stability and changes such as the emergence of new groups, topics, and leaders. Dynamic Network Analysis focuses on meta-networks composed of multiple types of nodes (entities) and multiple types of links. These entities can be highly varied. Examples include people, organizations, topics, resources, tasks, events, locations, and beliefs.\n\nDynamic network techniques are particularly useful for assessing trends and changes in networks over time, identification of emergent leaders, and examining the co-evolution of people and ideas.\n\nWith the recent explosion of publicly available high throughput biological data, the analysis of molecular networks has gained significant interest. The type of analysis in this content are closely related to social network analysis, but often focusing on local patterns in the network. For example, network motifs are small subgraphs that are over-represented in the network. Activity motifs are similar over-represented patterns in the attributes of nodes and edges in the network that are over represented given the network structure. The analysis of biological networks has led to the development of network medicine, which looks at the effect of diseases in the interactome.\n\nLink analysis is a subset of network analysis, exploring associations between objects. An example may be examining the addresses of suspects and victims, the telephone numbers they have dialed and financial transactions that they have partaken in during a given timeframe, and the familial relationships between these subjects as a part of police investigation. Link analysis here provides the crucial relationships and associations between very many objects of different types that are not apparent from isolated pieces of information. Computer-assisted or fully automatic computer-based link analysis is increasingly employed by banks and insurance agencies in fraud detection, by telecommunication operators in telecommunication network analysis, by medical sector in epidemiology and pharmacology, in law enforcement investigations, by search engines for relevance rating (and conversely by the spammers for spamdexing and by business owners for search engine optimization), and everywhere else where relationships between many objects have to be analyzed.\n\nThe structural robustness of networks is studied using percolation theory. When a critical fraction of nodes is removed the network becomes fragmented into small clusters. This phenomenon is called percolation and it represents an order-disorder type of phase transition with critical exponents.\n\nThe SIR model is one of the most well known algorithms on predicting the spread of global pandemics within an infectious population.\n\nThe formula above describes the \"force\" of infection for each susceptible unit in an infectious population, where is equivalent to the transmission rate of said disease.\n\nTo track the change of those susceptible in an infectious population:\n\nOver time, the number of those infected fluctuates by: the specified rate of recovery, represented by formula_67 but deducted to one over the average infectious period formula_68, the numbered of infectious individuals, formula_69, and the change in time, formula_70.\n\nWhether a population will be overcome by a pandemic, with regards to the SIR model, is dependent on the value of formula_71 or the \"average people infected by an infected individual.\"\n\nSeveral Web search ranking algorithms use link-based centrality metrics, including (in order of appearance) Marchiori's Hyper Search, Google's PageRank, Kleinberg's HITS algorithm, the CheiRank and TrustRank algorithms. Link analysis is also conducted in information science and communication science in order to understand and extract information from the structure of collections of web pages. For example, the analysis might be of the interlinking between politicians' web sites or blogs.\n\nPageRank works by randomly picking \"nodes\" or websites and then with a certain probability, \"randomly jumping\" to other nodes. By randomly jumping to these other nodes, it helps PageRank completely traverse the network as some webpages exist on the periphery and would not as readily be assessed.\n\nEach node, formula_73, has a PageRank as defined by the sum of pages formula_74 that link to formula_35 times one over the outlinks or \"out-degree\" of formula_74 times the \"importance\" or PageRank of formula_74.\n\nAs explained above, PageRank enlists random jumps in attempts to assign PageRank to every website on the internet. These random jumps find websites that might not be found during the normal search methodologies such as Breadth-First Search and Depth-First Search.\n\nIn an improvement over the aforementioned formula for determining PageRank includes adding these random jump components. Without the random jumps, some pages would receive a PageRank of 0 which would not be good.\n\nThe first is formula_79, or the probability that a random jump will occur. Contrasting is the \"damping factor\", or formula_80.\n\nAnother way of looking at it:\n\nInformation about the relative importance of nodes and edges in a graph can be obtained through centrality measures, widely used in disciplines like sociology. Centrality measures are essential when a network analysis has to answer questions such as: \"Which nodes in the network should be targeted to ensure that a message or information spreads to all or most nodes in the network?\" or conversely, \"Which nodes should be targeted to curtail the spread of a disease?\". Formally established measures of centrality are degree centrality, closeness centrality, betweenness centrality, eigenvector centrality, and katz centrality. The objective of network analysis generally determines the type of centrality measure(s) to be used.\n\n\nContent in a complex network can spread via two major methods: conserved spread and non-conserved spread. In conserved spread, the total amount of content that enters a complex network remains constant as it passes through. The model of conserved spread can best be represented by a pitcher containing a fixed amount of water being poured into a series of funnels connected by tubes . Here, the pitcher represents the original source and the water is the content being spread. The funnels and connecting tubing represent the nodes and the connections between nodes, respectively. As the water passes from one funnel into another, the water disappears instantly from the funnel that was previously exposed to the water. In non-conserved spread, the amount of content changes as it enters and passes through a complex network. The model of non-conserved spread can best be represented by a continuously running faucet running through a series of funnels connected by tubes . Here, the amount of water from the original source is infinite Also, any funnels that have been exposed to the water continue to experience the water even as it passes into successive funnels. The non-conserved model is the most suitable for explaining the transmission of most infectious diseases.\n\nIn 1927, W. O. Kermack and A. G. McKendrick created a model in which they considered a fixed population with only three compartments, susceptible: formula_83, infected, formula_84, and recovered, formula_85. The compartments used for this model consist of three classes:\n\n\nThe flow of this model may be considered as follows:\n\nUsing a fixed population, formula_90, Kermack and McKendrick derived the following equations:\n\nSeveral assumptions were made in the formulation of these equations: First, an individual in the population must be considered as having an equal probability as every other individual of contracting the disease with a rate of formula_92, which is considered the contact or infection rate of the disease. Therefore, an infected individual makes contact and is able to transmit the disease with formula_93 others per unit time and the fraction of contacts by an infected with a susceptible is formula_94. The number of new infections in unit time per infective then is formula_95, giving the rate of new infections (or those leaving the susceptible category) as formula_96 (Brauer & Castillo-Chavez, 2001). For the second and third equations, consider the population leaving the susceptible class as equal to the number entering the infected class. However, a number equal to the fraction (formula_97 which represents the mean recovery rate, or formula_98 the mean infective period) of infectives are leaving this class per unit time to enter the removed class. These processes which occur simultaneously are referred to as the Law of Mass Action, a widely accepted idea that the rate of contact between two groups in a population is proportional to the size of each of the groups concerned (Daley & Gani, 2005). Finally, it is assumed that the rate of infection and recovery is much faster than the time scale of births and deaths and therefore, these factors are ignored in this model.\n\nMore can be read on this model on the Epidemic model page.\n\nA master equation can express the behaviour of an undirected growing network where, at each time step, a new node is added to the network, linked to an old node (randomly chosen and without preference). The initial network is formed by two nodes and two links between them at time formula_99, this configuration is necessary only to simplify further calculations, so at time formula_100 the network have formula_101 nodes and formula_101 links.\n\nThe master equation for this network is:\n\nwhere formula_104 is the probability to have the node formula_105 with degree formula_21 at time formula_107, and formula_105 is the time step when this node was added to the network. Note that there are only two ways for an old node formula_105 to have formula_21 links at time formula_107:\n\n\nAfter simplifying this model, the degree distribution is formula_118\n\nBased on this growing network, an epidemic model is developed following a simple rule: Each time the new node is added and after choosing the old node to link, a decision is made: whether or not this new node will be infected. The master equation for this epidemic model is:\n\nwhere formula_120 represents the decision to infect (formula_121) or not (formula_122). Solving this master equation, the following solution is obtained: formula_123\n\nAn interdependent network is a system of coupled networks where nodes of one or more networks depend on nodes in other networks. Such dependencies are enhanced by the developments in modern technology. Dependencies may lead to cascading failures between the networks and a relatively small failure can lead to a catastrophic breakdown of the system. Blackouts are a fascinating demonstration of the important role played by the dependencies between networks. A recent study developed a framework to study the cascading failures in an interdependent networks system.\n\nMultilayer networks are networks with multiple kinds of relations. Increasingly sophisticated attempts to model real-world systems as multidimensional networks have yielded valuable insight in the fields of social network analysis, economics, history, urban and international transport, ecology, \n\npsychology, medicine, biology, commerce, climatology, physics, computational neuroscience\n, operations management, and finance.\n\nNetwork problems that involve finding an optimal way of doing something are studied under the name of combinatorial optimization. Examples include network flow, shortest path problem, transport problem, transshipment problem, location problem, matching problem, assignment problem, packing problem, routing problem, Critical Path Analysis and PERT (Program Evaluation & Review Technique).\n\n"}
{"id": "191246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191246", "title": "New Romantic", "text": "New Romantic\n\nThe New Romantic movement was a pop culture movement that originated in the United Kingdom in the late 1970s. The movement emerged from the nightclub scene in London and Birmingham at venues such as Billy's and The Blitz. The New Romantic movement was characterised by flamboyant, eccentric fashion inspired by fashion boutiques such as PX in London and Kahn and Bell in Birmingham. Early adherents of the movement were often referred to by the press by such names as Blitz Kids, New Dandies and Romantic Rebels.\n\nInfluenced by David Bowie, Marc Bolan and Roxy Music, it developed glam rock and historical fashions, gaining its name from the styles of the early Romantic period. Several music acts at the start of the 1980s adopted the style of the movement and became known to epitomise it within the music and mainstream press, including Steve Strange (of Visage), Duran Duran, Spandau Ballet, A Flock of Seagulls, Classix Nouveaux and Boy George (of Culture Club). Ultravox were also often identified as New Romantics by the press although they did not exhibit the same visual styles of the movement, despite their link to the band Visage. Japan and Adam and the Ants were also labeled as New Romantic artists by the press, although both repudiated this and neither had any direct connection to the original scene. A number of these bands adopted synthesizers and helped to develop synth-pop in the early 1980s, which, combined with the distinctive New Romantic visuals, helped them first to national success in the UK, and then, via MTV, play a major part in the Second British Invasion of the U.S. charts.\n\nBy the end of 1981, the original movement had largely dissipated and, although some of the artists associated with the scene continued their careers, they had largely abandoned the aesthetics of the movement. There were attempts to revive the movement from the 1990s, including the short-lived romo movement.\n\nThe New Romantic movement is sometimes seen as a reaction to punk, and was heavily influenced by former glam rock stars of the 1970s such as David Bowie and Roxy Music. In terms of style it rejected the austerity and anti-fashion stance of punk. Both sexes often dressed in counter-sexual or androgynous clothing and wore cosmetics such as eyeliner and lipstick, partly derived from earlier punk fashions. This \"gender bending\" was particularly evident in figures such as Boy George of Culture Club and Marilyn (Peter Robinson).\n\nFashion was based on varied looks inspired by historical romantic themes, including frilly fop shirts in the style of the English Romantic period, Russian constructivism, Bonnie Prince Charlie, French Incroyables and 1930s' Cabaret, Hollywood starlets, Puritans and the Pierrot clown, with any look being possible if it was adapted to be unusual and striking. Common hairstyles included quiffs, mullets and wedges. Soon after they began to gain mainstream attention, however, many New Romantic bands dropped the eclectic clothes and make-up in favour of sharp suits.\n\nNew Romantic looks were propagated from fashion designer Helen Robinson's Covent Garden shop PX, began to influence major collections and were spread, with a delay, through reviews of what was being worn in clubs via magazines including \"i-D\" and \"The Face\". The emergence of the New Romantic movement into the mainstream coincided with Vivienne Westwood's unveiling of her \"pirate collection\", which was promoted by Bow Wow Wow and Adam and the Ants, who were managed by her then partner Malcolm McLaren. However, the post-punk Adam Ant himself has always denied being a New Romantic, and reiterated this in 2012.\n\nThe band Japan also refuted any connection with the New Romantic movement, having adopted an androgynous look incorporating make-up ever since their inception in the mid-1970s at the tail-end of the glam rock era, many years before the New Romantic movement began. In an October 1981 interview, vocalist David Sylvian commented \"There's a period going past at the moment that may make us look as though we're in fashion.\" In another interview, he stated \"I don't like to be associated with them (New Romantics). The attitudes are so very different.\" Of Japan's fashion sense, Sylvian said \"For them (New Romantics), fancy dress is a costume. But ours is a way of life. We look and dress this way every day.\"\n\nSimilarly, the electronic duo Soft Cell also denied any connection to the New Romantic scene. In an interview published in January 1984, keyboardist Dave Ball reflected back on their first year of success (1981) and stated \"At this time we were linked to the whole New Romantics thing, but we were never a part of that. It was just a trendy London club thing with Steve Strange.\"\n\nWhile some contemporary bands, particularly those of the 2 Tone ska revival, dealt with issues of unemployment and urban decay, New Romantics adopted an escapist and aspirational stance. With its interest in design, marketing and image, the movement has been seen by some as an acceptance of Thatcherism and style commentator Peter York even suggested that it was aligned with the New Right.\n\nIn its early stages the movement was known by a large number of names, including \"new dandies\", \"romantic rebels\", \"peacock punk\", \"the now crowd\", \"the futurists\", \"the cult with no name\" and eventually as the \"Blitz Kids\". As the scene moved beyond a single club the media settled on the name New Romantics.\n\nThe New Romantic movement developed almost simultaneously in London and Birmingham. In London it grew out of David Bowie and Roxy Music nights, run during 1978 in the nightclub Billy's in Dean Street, London. In 1979, the growing popularity of the club forced organisers Steve Strange and Rusty Egan to relocate to a larger venue in the Blitz, a wine bar in Great Queen Street, Covent Garden, where they ran a Tuesday night \"Club for Heroes\". Its patrons dressed as uniquely as they could in an attempt to draw the most attention.\n\nSteve Strange worked as the club's doorman and Egan was the DJ at the Blitz. The club became known for its exclusive door policy and strict dress code. Strange would frequently deny potential patrons admission because he felt that they were not costumed creatively or subversively enough to blend in with those inside the club. In a highly publicised incident, Mick Jagger tried to enter the club while under the influence of alcohol, but was denied entry by Strange. The club spawned several spin-offs and there were soon clubs elsewhere in the capital and in other major British cities, including Manchester, Liverpool and Birmingham.\n\nWhile still at Billy's, Strange and Egan joined Billy Currie and Midge Ure of Ultravox to form the band Visage. Before forming Culture Club, Boy George and Marilyn worked as cloakroom attendants at the Blitz. The video for David Bowie's 1980 UK number one single \"Ashes to Ashes\" included appearances by Strange with three other Blitz Kids and propelled the New Romantic movement into the mainstream.\n\nIn Birmingham the origins of the New Romantic movement lay in the opening in 1975 of the Hurst Street shop of the fashion designers Kahn and Bell, whose elaborate and theatrical designs brought together futuristic visual elements and influences as diverse as Egyptian, African and Far Eastern art, and would largely define the movement's look. By 1977 a small scene featuring Jane Kahn and Patti Bell themselves, Martin Degville, Boy George and Patrick Lilley had emerged in pubs such as The Crown and clubs such as Romulus and Barbarella's.\n\nMany bands that emerged from the New Romantic movement became closely associated with the use of synthesizers to create rock and pop music. This synthpop was prefigured in the 1960s and 1970s by the use of synthesizers in progressive rock, electronic art rock, disco, the \"Kraut rock\" of bands like Kraftwerk, the three albums made by Bowie with Brian Eno in his \"Berlin period\", and Yellow Magic Orchestra's early albums.\n\nAfter the breakthrough of Tubeway Army and Gary Numan in the British Singles Chart in 1979, large numbers of artists began to enjoy success with a synthesizer-based sound and they came to dominate the pop music of the early 1980s. Bands that emerged from the New Romantic scene and adopted synthpop included Duran Duran, Visage, and Spandau Ballet.\n\nEarly synthpop has been described as \"eerie, sterile, and vaguely menacing\", using droning electronics with little change in inflection. Later the introduction of dance beats made the music warmer and catchier and contained within the conventions of three-minute pop. Duran Duran, who emerged from the Birmingham scene, have been credited with incorporating a dance-orientated rhythm section into synthpop to produce a catchier and warmer sound, which provided them with a series of hit singles.\n\nOf groups associated with the New Romantic movement, Culture Club avoided a total reliance on synthesizers, producing a sound that combined elements of Motown, the Philly sound and lovers rock. Adam and the Ants utilised the African influenced rhythms of the \"Burundi beat\".\n\nIn the US the cable music channel MTV reached the media capitals of New York City and Los Angeles in 1982. Style conscious New Romantic synthpop acts became a major staple of MTV programming. They would be followed by a large number of acts, many of them employing synthpop sounds, over the next three years, with Duran Duran's glossy videos symbolising the power of MTV and this Second British Invasion. The switch to a \"New Music\" format in US radio stations was also significant in the success of British bands.\n\nThis 80s invasion had been prefigured in May 1981 when the first New Romantic synthpop group Spandau Ballet, house-band of London’s Blitz club, had flown to New York City to stage not only a live gig but a fashion show by the Axiom collective of designers, who included Sade Adu. These former Blitz Kids, “21 in number and 21 their average age” came by invitation of Jim Fouratt who hosted the event at the Underground club.\n\nDuring 1983, 30% of the US record sales were from British acts. On 18 July 1983, 18 singles in the top 40, and 6 in the top 10, were by British artists. \"Newsweek\" magazine ran an issue which featured Annie Lennox and Boy George on the cover of one of its issues, with the caption \"Britain Rocks America – Again\", while \"Rolling Stone\" would release an \"England Swings\" issue with Boy George on the cover. In April 1984, 40 of the top 100 singles, and in a May 1985 survey 8 of the top 10 singles, were by acts of British origin.\n\nMusic journalist Dave Rimmer considered the Live Aid concert of July 1985 as the peak for the various acts that rose from the New Romantic scene of the early 80s, commenting that after which \"everyone seemed to take hubristic tumbles\". Simon Reynolds also notes the \"Do They Know Its Christmas\" single in late 1984 and Live Aid in 1985 as turning points, with the acts that the movement spawned as having become decadent, with \"overripe arrangements and bloated videos\" for songs like Duran Duran's \"The Wild Boys\" and Culture Club's \"The War Song\". The proliferation of acts using synthesisers had led to an anti-synth backlash, with groups including Spandau Ballet, Soft Cell and ABC incorporating more conventional influences and instruments into their sounds by 1983.\n\nAn American reaction against European synthpop and \"haircut bands\" has been seen as beginning in the mid-1980s with the rise of heartland rock and roots rock. In the UK, the arrival of indie rock bands, particularly The Smiths, has been seen as marking the end of synth-driven new wave and the beginning of the guitar rock that would come to dominate rock into the 1990s. By the end of the 1980s many acts had been dropped by their labels and the solo careers of many artists who had been associated with the New Romantic scene gradually faded.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the New Romantic era was the subject of nostalgia-oriented club nights — such as the Human League inspired \"Don't You Want Me\", and \"Planet Earth\", a Duran Duran-themed night club whose promoter told \"The Sunday Times\" \"It's more of a celebration than a revival\". In the same period it was also an inspiration for the short-lived romo musical movement. It was championed by \"Melody Maker\", who proclaimed on its front cover in 1995 that it was a \"future pop explosion\" that had \"executed\" Britpop, and including bands Orlando, Plastic Fantastic, Minty, Viva, Sexus, Hollywood and Dex Dexter. None made the British top 75, and after an unsuccessful \"Melody Maker\"-organised tour, most of the bands soon broke up.\n\n\n During the New Romantic period, two of four Ultravox members—frontman Ure and keyboardist Currie—were also in the then six person group Visage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26247429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26247429", "title": "Pattachitra", "text": "Pattachitra\n\nPattachitra or Patachitra is a general term for traditional, cloth-based scroll painting, based in the eastern Indian states of Odisha and West Bengal. Pattachitra artform is known for its intricate details as well as mythological narratives and folktales inscribed in it. Pattachitra is one of the ancient artworks of Odisha. Patrachitras are a component of an ancient Bengali narrative art, originally serving as a visual device during the performance of a song.\n\nIn the Sanskrit language, \"Patta\" literally means \"cloth\" and \"Chitra\" means \"picture\". Most of these paintings depict stories of Hindu deities.\n\nThe Bengal Patachitra refers to the painting of West Bengal. It is a traditional and mythological heritage of West Bengal. The Bengal Patachitra is divided into some different aspects like Durga Pat, \"Chalchitra\", \"Tribal Patachitra\", \"Medinipur Patachitra\", Kalighat Patachitra and etc. The subject matter of Bengal Patachitra is mostly mythological, religious stories, folk lore and social. The Kalighat Patachitra, the last tradition of Bengal Patachitra is developed by Jamini Roy. The artist of the Bengal Patachitra is called Patua.\n\nPatachitra of Naya village in West Bengal is now collected in National Museum of Ethnology (henceforth MNE) in Lisbon.\n\nPatachitra is known for its excellent play of colour. It is a traditional folk art form of rural Bengal. There are some controversial opinions about the dates of ancient Patas. But it has been suggested on the basis of historical themes connected with the accompanied songs like Patua Sangeet. It dates back to the Pre- Pala period which is still tucked away with small villages of Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Howrah, Hooghly and 24 Parganas. Bengal Patachitra is referred to in the \"Buddhist literature\" in 1st century A.D., in \"Haribansha\" in 2nd century, in \"Abhigyanashakuntalam\" and \"Malavikagnimitra\" in 4th century, \"Harshacharita\" and \"Uttararamacharita\" in 6th and 7th-8th centuries respectively.\n\nIn his book Folk Art of Bengal, author \"Ajitcoomar Mookerjee\" has mentioned that there are some Jadu-Patuas painting of mural style in the temples of Bankura District.\n\nThere are many types of Pots like religious, secular. Religious pots encompass the story of Hindu epics like, mythology, Ramayana, Mahabharata narrating stories of Hindu gods and goddesses like, Krishna, Chaitanya, Kali, Shiba and the indigenous Bengali folklore of Manasha and Chandi, Behula and Lakshinder being the most popular. Secular pots depicts important news events, scandals accidents etc such as bus accidents at Narayangarh, rural elections, the rationing system, family planning, evils of the dowry system etc. Every Patachitra has a song related to it, which the artists sing while unfurling the Patachitra. Singing pot in Bengal is called Patua Sangeet. Patua Sangeet or Poter Gan is a cultural tradition of the singing Bengal Patachitra. It is performed by Patua. It is famous in the village part of West Bengal like Birbhum, Jhargram, Bardhaman and Murshidabad as a folk song of West Bengal.\n\nBengal Patachitra painting has a different type of motif and aspects which unrolled the Bengali culture. using the mythological epic and the natural colour it is one of the individual characteristics of the Bengal Patachitra.\n\nChalchitra is a part of \"Bengal Patachitra\", It referred to the \"Debi Chal\" or \"Durga chala\", the background of the Durga Pratima or idol. Patua, the artists of Chalchitra called it as Pata Lekha, means the writing of Patachitra. 300–400 years old idols of Nabadwip Shakta Rash used Chalchitra as a part of Pratima. At a time, the use of Chalchitra became fade, but now it has a great popularity. Chalchitra artist of Nabadwip, Tapan Bhattacharya said-\n\nDurga pot or Durga sara is recognised as the worshiped patachitra. It worshiped in the \"Hatsarandi Sutradhar society\" of Birbhum district on Durga puja time. This type of patachitra is also worshiped is Katwa. Durga Pot has a semi-circular Patachitra where Patachitra of Durga is in the middle position. Ram, Sita, Shib, Nandi-Vringi, Brahma, Vishnu, Shumbha-Nishumbha are painted on this kind of Chalchitra. Krishnanager Rajrajeshwari Durga is seen to be uniquely noticed. In the middle of the Chalchitra, there is Panchanan Shib and Parvati is beside him, on one side there is Dasha-mahabidya and the other side, there is Dashabatar.\n\nThe Patachitra a of different districts of West Bengal are characterized by many peculiarities in colour and design. The patachitra of Manbhum, now known as Purulia can easily be distinguished by their preference for one particular shade of burnt sienna relieved by white and yellow patches and densely packed composition. The seated figures of Dasaratha and Chand Sadagar of Medinipur crowning the Ramayana and Kamale-Kamini scrolls are impressive and monumental. In the scrolls of pot of Birbhum, Bankura and Burdwan preference for Indian red background usually found, the scrolls of Hooghly preferred a dark brown. The Hooghly and Manbhum 'pats' are peculiar and definitely modernistic with the abstract linear treatment.\n\nUse of natural color is one of the individual characteristics of the Bengal Patachitra. In general, blue, yellow, green, red, brown, black and white are used in the Patachitra of West Bengal. Chalk dust is used for white color, pauri for yellow color, cultivated indigo for blue, bhushakali for black and mete sindur for red color.\n\nPattachitra is a traditional painting of Odisha, India. These paintings are based on Hindu mythology and specially inspired by Jagannath and Vaishnava sect. All colours used in the Paintings are natural and paintings are made fully old traditional way by Chitrakaras that is Oriya Painter. Pattachitra style of painting is one of the oldest and most popular art forms of Odisha. The name Pattachitra has evolved from the Sanskrit words patta, meaning canvas, and chitra, meaning picture. Pattachitra is thus a painting done on canvas, and is manifested by rich colourful application, creative motifs and designs, and portrayal of simple themes, mostly mythological in depiction. The traditions of pattachitra paintings are more than thousand years old.\n\nThe paintings of Orissa can be divided into three categories from the point of view of medium, i.e. paintings on cloth or 'Patta Chitra', paintings on walls or 'Bhitti Chitra' and palm leaf engravings or \"Tala Patra Chitra' or \"Pothi, Chitra'. The style of all these remains more or less the same at a specific time because the then artists were commissioned to work in all these media, it is believed.\n\nThe painting the 'pattachitra' resemble the old murals of Odisha especially religious centres of Puri, Konark and Bhubaneshwar region, dating back to the 5th century BC. The best work is found in and around Puri, especially in the village of Raghurajpur.\n\nThis old tradition of Odia painting still survives in the places like Puri, Raghurajpur, Paralakhemundi, Chikiti and Sonepur.In the past professionerise, there was no distinct separation between the master painters and master sculptors; so the possibility of a simultaneous origin of painting and sculptural art in Odisha can not be ruled out. Even today in Odisha, these two crafts are combined in one and these artists and known as Chitrakaras, their title remains mostly Mohapatra or Maharana. Strangely enough, painting appeared in Odisha rather later, several centuries after the construction of the great temples of Bhubaneswar, Puri and Konark.here exists a good number of paintings from 18th century onwards in many temples and Mathas especially in the southern districts of Odisha. Lord Jagannath in the present from is being taken as the origin of the Patta style. The colour schemes of the deities of Puri are quite similar to those of the Patta style. The oldest record of Patta Paintings does not probably go beyond the establishment of the present shrine of Shri Jagannath at Puri. It may be due to the fact that paintings do not survive like sculptures. The paints inside the shrines of Lord Jagannath at Puri make the date probable. The oldest classical marble paintings of Sitabanji at Keonjhar do not conform to the present style of Patta painting wholly. The wooden statues of the three deities are also covered with cloth and then overlaid with glue mixed with chalk, and then given paint only with four limited colours of red, yellow, white and black. The deities who are held in high esteem by the Odias and who inspire religion, life and activity of the people also carry with them a tradition of art and painting which is as old as the deities themselves. If the Savara origin of Jagannath is accepted, the date of the Patta paintings can be dated back to an earlier period. These paintings were originally substitutes for worship on days when the temple doors were shut for the 'ritual bath' of the deity.\n\nThe theme of Odia painting centres round the Jagannath and the Vaishnava sect. Since beginning of Pattachitra culture, Lord Jagannath who was an incarnation of Lord Krishna has been the major source of inspiration. The subject matter of Patta Chitra is mostly mythological, religious stories and folk lore. Themes are chiefly on Lord Jagannath and Radha-Krishna, different \"Vesas\" of Shri Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra, temple activities, the ten incarnations of Vishnu basing on the 'Gita Govinda' of Jayadev, Kama Kujara Navagunjara, Ramayana, Mahabharata. The individual paintings of gods and goddesses are also being painted.\nThe Pattachitra style are mix of both folk and classical elements but leanings more towards folk forms. The dress style has Mughal influences. All of the poses have been confined to a few well-defined postures. These are not free from monotonous repetitions, though at times this is necessary to accentuate the narrative character of the style. The lines are bold and clean and angular and sharp. Generally there are no landscapes, perspectives and distant views. All the incidents are seen in close juxtaposition. The background on which the figures are represented, is delineated with decorations of flowers and foliages and is mostly painted in red colour. All the paintings are given decorative borders. The whole painting is conceived in the form of a design on a given canvas.\n\nThe themes may be classified into following categories\na)Bhagabat paintings\nb)Ramayana paintings\n\nTraditionally the painters are known as chitrakars. A patta painter's home with all the members of family is his studio. Woman members prepare the glue, the canvas and apply colours what we call the fill-in, and give the final lacquer coating. The master hand, mostly the male member, draws the initial line and gives the final finishing.\nPatta paintings are done on small strips of cotton cloth. The canvas is prepared by coating the clothe with a mixture of chalk and gum made from tamarind seeds. Then it is rubbed by taking the help of two different stones and then the cloth is dried.The mixture of gum and chalk gives the cloth's surface a leathery finish on which the artists paint with vegetable, earth and stone colours.\nThe painters do not use pencil or charcoal for the preliminary drawings. They are so expert in the line that they simply draw directly with the brush either in light red or yellow. Then the colours are filled in. The final lines are drawn and the patta is given a lacquer coating to protect it from weather, thus making the painting glossy. This process of glazing or varnishing is quite interesting. The painting is held over a fireplace so that the back of the painting is exposed to heat. On the surface of the painting fine lacquer is applied.\n\nIn the 16th century, with the emergence of Bhakti movement the paintings of Radha and Krishna were painted in vibrant shades of orange, red and yellow. There are typical scenes and figures like Krishna, Gopis, elephants, trees and other creatures are seen in these paintings. Krishna is always painted in blue and Gopis in light pink, purple or brown colours.\n\nThe painters use vegetable and mineral colours without going for factory made poster colours. They prepare their own colours. White colour is made from the conch-shells by powdering, boiling and filtering in a very hazardous process. It requires a lot of patience. But this process gives brilliance and premanence to the hue. 'Hingula', a mineral colour, is used for red. 'Haritala', king of stone ingredients for yellow, 'Ramaraja' a sort of indigo for blue are being used. Pure lamp-black or black prepared from the burning of coconut shells are used. There was no blue either cobalt or ultramarine in the earlier colour schemes. The colours used in the Patta paintings are primarily bright colours, limited to red, yellow, indigo, black and white. The brushes that are used by these 'Chitrakaras' are also indigenous and are made of hair of domestic animals. A bunch of hair tied to the end of a bamboo stick make the brush. It is really a matter of wonder as to how these painters bring out lines of such precision and finish with the help of these crude brushes.\n\nPalm leaf pattachitra which is in Oriya language known as \"Tala Pattachitra\" drawn on palm leaf. First of all palm leaves are left for becoming hard after being taken from tree.Then these are sewn together to form like a canvas. The images are traced by using black or white ink to fill grooves etched on rows of equal-sized panels of palm leaf that are sewn together. These panels can also be easily folded like a fan and packed in a compact pile for better conservation.Often palm-leaf illustrations are more elaborated, obtaining by superimposing layers that are glued together for most of the surface, but in some areas can open like small windows to reveal a second image under the first layer.\n\nGeographical indication of Patachitra is registered under to different state of India as the style and motif of West Bengal and Odisha Patachitra are so different. The Patachitra of West Bengal is registered as Bengal Patachitra and the Patachitra of Odisha is registered as Orissa Pattachitra.\n\n Citations \n\n"}
{"id": "53368524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53368524", "title": "Privacy in education", "text": "Privacy in education\n\nPrivacy in education refers to the broad area of ideologies, practices, and legislation that involve the privacy rights of individuals in the education system. Concepts that are commonly associated with privacy in education include the expectation of privacy, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the Fourth Amendment, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The majority of privacy in education concerns are prevalent to the protection of student data, such as educational records and other personal information, both inside and outside the traditional classroom setting as well as the privacy and confidentiality of medical records. Many scholars are engaging in an academic discussion that covers the scope of students’ privacy rights, from student in K-12 and even higher education, and the management of student data in an age of rapid access and dissemination of information. \n\n\"Expectation of privacy,\" similar to the \"right to privacy,\" is a phrase that describes the natural desire of humans to maintain their sense of privacy. There is currently no legal definition in the American law that explicitly grants humans the right to privacy. Oftentimes, the Fourth Amendment is utilized by people in court cases to defend themselves from actions that involve certain infringements upon their privacy, such as searches that require warrants. However, over the years, the U.S. Supreme Court has found it difficult to determine an impartial non-biased meaning for \"expectation of privacy\" because there are too many subjective variables to consider.\n\nIn line with the general meaning of \"expectation of privacy,\" student expectation of privacy refers to a student's inherent right to privacy in the school system. Examples of student expectation of privacy, especially in the pre-collegiate levels, include the protection of a student's academic record from being viewed by anyone other than the academic instructor, the student's parents or guardians, and the students themselves. There have been many legal cases regarding the privacy concerns of pupils' academic records, for example the Owasso Independent School District v. Falvo that was handled by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2002. This particular case began in October 1998 when Kristja J. Falvo filed a lawsuit against the Owasso Independent School District on the premise that the grading practice employed in her children's classroom, peer grading, was a violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and of FERPA. Additionally, peer grading embarrassed her children in front of their peers, which could be interpreted as a violation of a student's expectation of privacy in the classroom. When the case reached the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, it was ruled in October 2000 that peer grading was not a violation of the constitutional Fourteenth Amendment but was, in fact, a violation of FERPA. The Tenth Circuit judges reasoned so by closely interpreting the statue in FERPA about privacy protection of \"educational records.\" Since it was agreed upon that teacher grade books were considered \"educational records,\" the Tenth Circuit decided that anything that went into these grade books, including student grades written on student work, were also considered \"educational records\" and thus subject to FERPA's privacy protection policies. After the court decision was released, peer grading practices were banned in school districts within the Tenth Circuit regional borders.\n\nMany citizens and scholars were opposed to the Tenth Circuit's decision, and the case ultimately reached the U.S. Supreme Court in 2001. In 2002, the Supreme Court Justices officially ruled that peer grading was not a violation of FERPA. They reasoned that student grades on student work were not considered \"educational records\" until the teacher had physically recorded the grades into a grade book. Thus, peer grading returned as a common grading practice in classrooms across the United States.\n\nOther examples of student expectation of privacy include the right of children to withhold personal information from teachers within in a traditional classroom setting. Such topic remains as a contentious educational privacy concern in the classroom. Some argue that teachers should know more information about students in order to help support them in their academic endeavors. Others argue that teachers should refrain from prying into the personal lives of children because, like adults, children should have the right to privacy and determine the amount of information that they reveal to teachers. Still others make the claim that children are too young to make this decision for themselves and should consult their parents prior to revealing anything personal to their teachers.\n\nStudent educational records, according to the FERPA statue, is defined as \"those records, files, documents, and other materials which--(i) contain information directly related to a student; and (ii) are maintained by an educational agency or institution or by a person acting for such agency or institution.\"\n\nThe Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 was propelled by New York Senator James Buckley who promoted the importance of protection and privacy of educational records of students who attended primary and secondary schooling. As a federal legislation, FERPA grants students under the age of 18 and their parents the right to manage their educational records, which may include data about their academic performance, medical information, behavioral analysis, and more. Thus, when parents or guardians feel that their children's educational records have been exposed to the public in some way, they are able to file claims against the school district as a violation of FERPA. \n\nFor students over the age of 18, particularly those enrolled in postsecondary education institutions, FERPA can be vague and unclear about the disclosure of educational records to parents. Since individuals aged 18 and over are recognized as adults by the law, FERPA separates students in postsecondary education and their parents in terms of access to educational records such as health and drug records. According to Baker, many controversial issues may arise. For example, Baker writes that \"FERPA regulation 99.31(a)(8) allows disclosure to parents without the student's prior written authorization if the student is 'dependent' on the parents as defined by the Internal Revenue Code.\" However, there may be circumstances under which financially dependent students would not want their private records accessed by their parents. Additionally, FERPA authorizes the release to parents or guardians of information about recorded drug or alcohol use by students under the age of 21. If the underage and illegal drug or alcohol use resulted in legitimate concerns and disciplinary action, school administrators can notify and disclose details to parents without the students' permission.\n\nAs the Common Core State Standards are being developed and implemented in schools across the United States, some academics are bringing awareness to the potential privacy concerns of student data and educational records. According to Stacie Hunt, the Common Core system creates a large student database that keeps track of student performance and information from pre-K to college and even beyond. Federal government and other agencies are able to gain access to this database, analyze student data records, and sell pertinent information to the schools and districts overall. This creates a privacy concern about student data being spread and utilized by third-parties without the students', or their parents', explicit permission.\n\nEducational technology (\"edtech\") is an emerging field in the area of education. According to Dylan Peterson, \"edtech represents a broad category of educational products and services used in schools and by private individuals.\" Privacy concerns surround the fact that large amounts of data of each student using edtech are collected and stored in a wide database that can be accessed by schools. This data may be personal to the students and they may not wish for others to view it. However, edtech companies claim that without storing as much student data as possible, it would be more difficult to create programs that effectively address the students' educational needs.\n\nTo help improve programs that benefit the educational experience of students with disabilities, some scholars propose a digitalized database of student records that are updated in real time. This is so that educators can keep track of important information about students with various disabilities and monitor their academic performances for educational purposes. While these scholars support the idea of disclosure of data of students with disabilities, they make it very clear that strong legislation and policies must be enforced to protect the privacy of such data. It is currently a debate whether or not digitalized student data that can be accessed by many parties is really beneficial to support individuals with disabilities in school. Some are not comfortable with the idea that the data is updated frequently and disseminated widely, while others believe that the acquisition of such data is necessary to improve programs and enrich educational experiences.\n\nSince the 1970's, the commonly held perspective was that the right to privacy was an evaluation of individual worth. Further, technology, even before the World Wide Web, was perceived as having potentially negative effects such as allowing information to be breached. Yet, there were not many violations warranted that would urge legislation to act and shift their attention to protecting privacy in education or primarily individual privacy in general. Technology was also viewed as a source to uncover values, behaviors, motives and thoughts but at the same time, many thought that only qualified professionals had access to personal data. However, specifically in higher education, there was a perspective that individuals were susceptible to having their information breached. Thus, the role of education in the 1970's was viewed as one that safeguarded its students and staff to ensure privacy and prevent data from being breached given the technology that existed. \n\nIn many public and private colleges and universities across the United States, enrolled students typically live on campus in college-operated dormitories. Since students live in these dormitories for the duration of about one year, many personalize and consider their dormitory rooms as their personal and personalized living space. However, these dormitories are property owned by colleges and often students must waive their right to privacy for college representatives to conduct searches for safety purposes. While some believe that dormitory searches are effective for maintaining a safe community on campus, others believe that these searches are a violation of student privacy. Many cases have been filed by students in which they were caught with illegal substances in their dormitories during searches that these students felt were an invasion of their private living spaces. Additionally, only public or government-related searches with warrants are protected under the Fourth Amendment. Oftentimes college dormitory searches would be regarded as private searches and thus undergo lawsuits that claim a violation of the Fourth Amendment. For example, in the case \"Morale v. Grigel\", a Resident Assistant at the New Hampshire Technical Institute searched a student's room on multiple occasions even though the student was not present in the room at all times. Once the Resident Assistant found marijuana in the room, the student was arrested for possessing illegal substances on college campus property. The student then filed a lawsuit against the Resident Assistant on the grounds that the searches were private and thus violated his Fourth Amendment right to protection from private searches. However, the court concluded that the Resident Assistant's employment status rendered him as a government agent and thus his searches were conducted on behalf of the college, a government-related institution.\n\nWithin social networks, or particular websites that enable the sharing of information as well as communication among individuals, there exists a level of privacy that students prefer to keep their personal information or social life private from school personnel or faculty in order to avoid context collapse. \n\nTechnology enables the creation of one's own social presence through informal settings as well as formal settings that allow for the connection of student and instructors for academic purposes. Students in higher education using Facebook typically censor or block their information from instructors. Thus, Facebook is primarily used to interact with friends and family rather than instructors. By students blocking their information, they believe that they avoid context collapse that may cause confusion of who the person really is. Typically, students prefer to be present in the classroom and have their social life private from formal settings. \n\nWith the improvement of technology, more data has become available within higher education. Administrators are then able to learn more about students in order to implement forms of improving student's success. Through learning analytics, which is defined as the focus on \"students and their learning behaviors, gathering data from course management and student information systems in order to improve student success,\" administrators are able to obtain real-time empirical data such as insights and responses of student's learning processes. \n\nYet the privacy issues arise in how student data is collected, stored, analyzed and presented to stakeholders. There arises ethical issues of \"location and interpretation of data; informed consent, privacy, and de-identification of data; and classification and management of data.\" \n\nStudents believe that data about them is elaborate and personalized and at the same time hold a conservative view about learning analytics. Learning analytics helps obtain real time data for higher education learning processes but, at the same time may hinder the development of students such as critical thinking and autonomous learning. It is not as simple as saying that learning analytics will benefit students and thus increase their success and retention rates. This is such because procedures to regulate access are put in place while at the same time bias and lack of validity and comprehension affect the ability to obtain data that will then be used for the benefit of students.\n\nAs of 2017, there has been over 30 data breaches since 2005. The susceptibility to breaches creates threats to institutional research (IR) professionals who store and manage student data within the regulatory structure that controls data management. Further than this, student information is then brought to light which can threaten them as well. As vast amounts of data continues to be actively collected, potential breaching through hacking, physical theft, and by vendors becomes more probable. \n\nPreventative Measures Those who study the implications of data breaches emphasize that data should be kept to a minimum and that steps should be taken in order to see who can be trusted to regulate this information in order to keep data private and not accessible to all employees. They also talk about investing in educating employees about what can and cannot be done with data. Further, they state that institutions should use the resources available at their own college/university in order to most effectively implement policies and procedures to keep data private. Exercising caution against third-party vendors that help with data is advised and further that there should be a contract established that 1) defines who exactly who will be working with data, 2) makes clear that data is sensitive and thus should be handled with care, 3) and includes security procedures that describe the exact responsibility of the vendor just in case data is breached. Writers who investigate data breaches in higher education advise that research professionals should understand that data breaches are bound to happen and that it is better to implement policies and take preventative measures in the first place to ensure the security of data. \n\nFamily Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA)\n\nThe Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 limits the “disclosure of certain information contained in a student’s education record to third parties” which includes parents if the student has not given consent. Third parties can be parents, family, another institution (mental health providers), or pursuants of a subpoena or court order (law enforcement). It gives colleges and universities the right to \"inspect and review\" educational records that can disclosed if 1) consent is given by the student, 2) if the information falls within the definition of \"directory information\" (information that is not considered harmful such as name, major and address), 3) if the information is of \"legitimate educational interest\" (if an official needs to review the education records in order to fulfill their responsibilities within the University), 4) the student is tax dependent, 5) if it regards drugs or alcohol violations, 6) if it involves serious conduct violations, and 7) when it involves health or safety emergencies \n\nFor example, if a student in a residence hall is diagnosed with a contagious disease (measles), has a serious eating disorder, has suicidal ideation, binge drinks heavily, or has erratic and angry behaviors. Furthermore, information can be released if it entails disciplinary information such as a student who is an “alleged perpetrator of a crime of violence or a non-forcible sex offense.\" However, there have been cases where troubled students remain in college, without the college or university advising parents about their \"strange\" behavior, which resulted in students to take their own lives. The cases of Jain v. Iowa\", Shin v. Massachusetts Institute of Technology\" and Mahoney v. Allegheny College exemplify this issue. Nonetheless, according to FERPA, disclosures are considered to be made in “good faith based upon the available facts.”Educational records are covered by FERPA. They are not just academic records, class schedules or transcripts but also financial records, disciplinary records, \"disability accommodation records, photographs, e-mails, and electronic database records.\" Official documentation is needed to fall under FERPA even if this entails a personal experience or observation.What is not covered under FERPA are: law enforcement records, treatment records, and sole possession records and instead fall under other laws or considerations. \n\nIn Loco Parentis \n\nDue to the influence of FERPA, there has been a shift from \"in loco parentis\", to in sin parentibus, and back to in loco parentis. \"In sine parentibus\" means \"without parents\" meanwhile in loco parentis means \"in place of the parent.\" Thus, as represented by FERPA, the shift to in loco parentis within higher education is the act of the school taking over the legal responsibility of parents. This means that college authorities stand in place of parents.\n\nThe role of FERPA is to enhance student achievement through greater parent involvement as well as protecting the private interests of students. Yet, the shift toward in loco parentis also comes with concerns related to educational records. More specifically, there is a concern about the extent to which large and powerful institutions obtain information to their advantage such as data that is gathered by researchers and policymakers. On the other hand there are concerns that relate to the university itself disclosing information. For example, under FERPA, the school can disclose information about students to parents if it includes alcohol and drug related incidents any time if they are under 21. Because of reasons like these, there is a concern that there may be \"systematic disclosure policies\" that become out of control and thus harm student rights and privacy. \n\nPrivacy vs. Confidentiality\n\nWithin student records there is a difference between what is privacy and what is confidentiality. Privacy is more of a legal concept and is defined as the \"right of a person to withhold himself and his property from public scrutiny if he so chooses.\" Thus privacy gives the individual the right to be let alone which means that the university itself does not have the right to pry into student's personal affairs or reveal student information unless there are explicit and valid reasons in doing so or permission has been granted by the student. Yet even giving permission does not mean that the student has given permission to have all of their information revealed from then on but rather than permission is granted within the particular circumstance.\n\nOn the other hand, confidentiality means that files and records of students are not authorized to be disclosed to third parties such as not disclosing information that is received in confidence from a patient and physician. Given this, authors who focus on confidentiality ask questions such as:1) Does the communication originate in confidence?2) Is the element of confidentiality essential to the full and satisfactory maintenance of the relationship between the parties?3) Is the relationship one that must be fostered??4) Will there result an injury that is greater than any benefits which may be gained from that disclosure?If the answers are \"yes\" then the university may be legally bound to not disclose information unless it overrides the interest. \n\nThe terms privacy and confidentiality arise when it comes to medical records. \n\nHealth Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996\n\nThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 provides privacy to data that is related to medical or mental health records that are legally more restrictive than FERPA in regards to confidentiality. HIPAA includes provisions that “intend to facilitate the creation of a national system for the electronic transmission and exchange of medical record information” such as access to information that is individually identifiable like health plans and health care. The act “defined protected health information so as to exclude individually identifiable health information that is included in education records covered by FERPA and that is in treatment records that are exempted from FERPA.” The difference between educational records and treatment records is that treatment records fall under federal and state law while educational records fall under FERPA. Nevertheless, the documentation of patient and caregiver is confidential meaning that medical records will not be disclosed unless consent is given or there is a belief that disclosing records is crucial. Furthermore, generally, health care providers do not disclose information unless they meet a standard that falls above the required FERPA health or safety exception, or consent is given, and thus is limited in providing information within the constraints of the confidentiality among patient and provider. \n\nIntegration of Mental and Physical Records \n\nIn some instances, college campuses have begun to integrate physical and mental health needs of patients. This means that medical records are becoming more shared among physicians as well as counselors or psychologists that work with students. Yet, medical providers, separately, have the obligation to withhold confidential information as an ethical duty and state privacy regulations. For example, health providers such as counselors, also have the obligation to be confidential and not disclose private information. However, as medical providers move towards integrated care, such that mental and physical records are shared amongst themselves, there arises a confidentiality challenge that may lead to college students to fall behind in school. Since confidentiality is compromised as information is disclosed among providers that use this method of continuity care, less students utilize therapy because they refuse to disclose private information that can then be shared with others. This simultaneously fuels the stigma towards college counseling. Thus, as more information becomes disclosed, less college students seek counseling due to lack of confidentiality as medical records of patients are disclosed between medical providers, when legally the obligation of these medical providers is to abide and guarantee privacy and confidentiality by withholding patient's information unless under specific circumstances.\n\nFurther, outside of sharing information among medical providers, there is also the issue of sharing information with researchers. They claim that medical records are difficult to access but when they are, it opens up the door for research. Yet, at the same time it opens the door to privacy and confidentiality risks.\n\nElectronic Health Records Since technology continues to revolutionize, medical records have become accessible as electronic health records. This allows information to be shared more easily but appears to create a challenge for stigma management and disclosing information during medical appointments.An in-depth interview study called \"Negotiating stigma in health care: disclosure and the role of electronic health records\" was made that took into account sexual minority men (gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men) in the U.S. to seek how they viewed electronic health records. What the study found is that there were concerns of privacy in terms of how the electronic aspect creates a barrier to be open and talk about seemingly confidential information as well as how it may challenge the right to confidentiality and privacy. On the other hand, the study also found that electronic health records may benefit by improving communication among providers when sharing information and further, to provide better care especially after the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical and Health Act invested billions in the adoption of electronic health records to improve the quality of care. The study concludes that technology may enhance medical care yet at the same time fuel the stigma that seeking medical help is bad and thus would hinder patients to make appointments, to attend counseling with certain providers, or disclose personal information such as sexual identity and HIV status that they believe will be shared to others without their consent. \n\nState Laws \n\nFederal regulations allow states to place their own regulations, to either increase or decrease the requirements for disclosure, but states who do are few. \n\n\nIn 1996 the state of Minnesota placed a law regarding medical records that appeared to be more stringent than HIPAA. Minnesota law attempted to obtain a \"written general authorization for such release from the patient\" as a form to impede the activities of researchers or providers to share information without given consent. Hospitals in Minnesota even made brochures that highlight patient's rights to confidentiality and that they can give consent in writing if they allow for their medical records to be released outside of the facility. Thus, the law required health care providers to obtain a written consent and authorization from patients in order for medical records to be released and used for research. However, researchers themselves campaigned against the law and the law was not successful in enforcing the right that patients have to refuse their information to be released. Meanwhile, the patients themselves wanted information as to what information is being used within their medical records.\n\nAs of 2006, under Minnesota's state rights, individuals have the right to: see and get a copy of their medical records, have information added to their medical records in order to make them accurate, file a complaint, and importantly, sue in state court for violations of their rights under state law. \n\n\nThe Massachusetts state law imposed the requirement that a person has the right against the unreasonable interference of privacy and states that the superior court shall have jurisdiction to enforce a person's right and thus must award damages if need be. According to the law there are strict privacy protections classified as medical. Records are considered educational records unless there exists there need be heightened confidentiality such as child abuse, AIDS, substance abuse, immigration status, pregnancy and abortion. Further, it is considered a medical record if a school-based clinic is under “operation of an outside entity or by a physician under any employment arrangement” and considered educational records if not considered for heightened confidentiality. \n\nIf an individual believes that their right to privacy they have the right to file a complaint with the Officer for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Health and Human services against health care providers, with the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine against doctors and with the Department of Public Health against hospitals. \n\n\nThe Confidentiality of Medical Information Act (CMIA) is a California state law that includes more information than HIPAA in regards to medical records. The main function is to protect confidentiality of identifiable medical information obtained by an individual's health care provider. It applies to licenses providers such as physicians and nurses. It prohibit medical providers to disclose medical information without obtaining authorization first and that any medical information about an individual is preserved in confidentiality by anyone who comes in contact with it. An individual whose confidentiality is not respected may obtain $1,000 and the amount of actual damages and for the person or entity that discloses confidential information is liable for an administrative fine. \n\nStudents With Disabilities \n\nTension on campus arises because as of the event of 9/11 some people on campus are fearful or overreact in demanding to know which students have conduct records or a disability accommodation. There is a tension of whether the information will be used to discriminate or treat students unfairly. Nevertheless, the distribution of this information is not limited by FERPA among school officials as long as the disclosure is done due to \"legitimate educational interests.\" \n\nForeign Students \n\nThe event of 9/11 impacted the release of information of students with visas and leads to the questioning of the responsibility and obligation of universities to report foreign student's information. Foreign individuals granted the opportunity to study in the U.S. for a period of time are given one of three visas: F-1 for academic studying, J-1 for exchange visitors, and M-1 for vocational training. \n\nHowever, the government claims that there are no accurate records of the 547,000 individuals holding student status (as of 2003). Meanwhile, universities are supposed to report information the information of F-1 and M-1 students to the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) such as their name, date and place of birth, current address, student status, degree program, field of study, etc. For those with J-1 visas, the sponsoring organization is to report information such as the individuals activities and compliance. Yet, if they do not necessarily report the information they are at least required to keep track of their foreign student's information.\n\nImportantly, regulations are not addressed in regards to how FERPA applies. The school may release information if the student is no longer enrolled if it needs to comply with judicial order, if it lawfully issues a subpoena, or if there are \"specific and articulable facts” that show that a student’s education record may contain information relevant to investigation or prosecution. Information can also be disclosed if it includes the protection of health or safety of students, especially if it is to “protect the health and safety of Americans.” Further, students who were issued I-20A or I-20M forms (F-1 and M-1 students) or DS-2019 forms (J-1 students) automatically grant consent to any information needed to determine immigrant’s status or release information that's related to the individual’s compliance with the Exchange Visitor Program. Yet, this information is stated to be only given to certain organizations such as the INS or the Department of State. \n\nLibrarians \n\n\nLibrarians themselves take part in protecting the right of library users privacy. Typically, the library itself aims to protect user's information primarily regarding what they do when they use technology, such as using computers to surf the web. According to Michael Zimmer in 2014, 95 percent of librarians agree or strongly agree individuals should control their personal information and many agree that there are threats to the privacy of their users. A survey conducted by the Office for Intellectual Freedom which obtained over 1,000 responses of librarians and library professionals found is that the Library Bill of Rights is honored which believe that everyone is entitled to \"freedom of access, freedom to read texts and view images, and freedom of thought and expression\" The Librarian's Code of Ethics and the adoption of the Privacy Act of 1974 also illuminate not just on a librarian level but also on a federal level that privacy is to be protected. \n\nOther non-governmental acts that protect the right to privacy and thus limit the information that can be collected are:\n\nGramm-Leach-Bliley Act\n\nHealth Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996\n\nCredit Reporting Act\n\nFurther, the Library 2.0 tools and services enhance what the user can do but at the same time track, collect and retain data that then may affect individuals especially since the recent dominance of social media. Yet, because of librarian's belief of protecting the rights of users, they take their own initiative in protecting user's information by destroying access logs daily, posting warning signs, and teaching users about privacy issues. This is especially done in order for information to not be obtained outside of legal restrictions.\n\nSpecifically, the Livingston Lord Library (LLL) of Minnesota State University's mission is to support both cultural and academic experiences and to encourage lifelong learning. Thus, their particular library provides resources that allows individuals to enhance their knowledge and skills. At the same time, they work to maintain their image of believing in confidentiality such that people can exercise their First Amendment right. Yet, there is not specific documentation as of 2007 that displays what privacy is to them. Nevertheless, there are examples of librarians exerting effort to ensure confidentiality and privacy by protecting their user's information.\n\nCampus Privacy Officers (CPO's) are individuals within the institution who have the institutional responsibility for anything that regards privacy, they make sure that privacy is upheld within higher education. Yet they are relatively new in the United States but nevertheless have been growing since 2002. Their role or function in higher education is:\n\n“sustaining an environment where faculty and student are free to inquire, experiment, discover, speak, and participate in discourse is without intimidation, protecting against and responding to modern-day cybersecurity threats, protecting the interests of individuals and assuring they have appropriate influence over data about themselves, pursuing opportunities for use of data in medical treatment, research, and student success, and enabling shared governance” \n\nTheir activities include maintaining: data privacy policies, notices, personal data inventory, governance structure and to respond to both complaints and requests from individuals, among other tasks. \n\nA few of the major issues that CPO's focus on are :\n\n\nUniversity of California Berkeley \n\nIn 1964 students at UC Berkeley protested against the ban that prevented them from engaging in political activity on campus. FBI Director J.Edgar Hoover got involved because he thought that the Free Speech Movement had to do with Communism that aimed to disrupt Capitalism and thus U.S. government. Particularly, Seth Rosenfield's book \"Subersives: The FBI's War on Student Radicals, and Reagan's Rise to Power\" demonstrates how Hoover investigated the movement and specifically student activists such as Mario Savio through \"'intense surveillance and harassment.'\" Further, when Clark Kerr, former president of Berkeley and then vice chancellor of the University of California system, lifted the ban on political engagement and further against \"Communist speakers\" the FBI targeted him and tried to get him fired. Hoover had ordered agents to find information about Kerr and leak it to the Board of Regents in order to show that Kerr was not fulfilling his role as president and thus had to be fired. Essentially, what it points to is that in the 1960's the FBI took on the role of trying to eliminate Communism within the UC Berkeley campus by investigating particular individuals in order to see if they were really Communist or in the case of Kerr to fire them for lifting the ban on political engagement. Some say that this is a breach in privacy because the FBI surveilled and investigated individuals without their consent. Others say that it was needed in order to make sure that no Communist activity was taking place particularly on the Berkeley campus due to the Free Speech Movement. \n\nPrinceton University\n\nIn 2002 Princeton University’s admission staff accessed a Yale University website used to inform applicants that they have been admitted. The act of Yale University accessing private information was brought to light. As a result, Yale University responded that it would improve their website with additional security to prevent another breach. Meanwhile, Princeton University responded by announcing the resignation of the top Princeton admissions official. Some say that acts like these raise the issues of student record privacy in the digital world. \n\nUniversity of Oregon \n\nIn 2015 a woman who said she was raped by three basketball players sued the University of Oregon for disclosing her mental health records to an attorney. This case gave rise to employees from the counseling center to write an open letter to the university community as a form to show that they were disturbed by the university's actions. Yet, officials argue that because the women claimed to have emotional distress then the university had the right to her medical records under FERPA. An attorney named Steve McDonald argued that HIPAA did not apply in this case. Meanwhile, Lynn Daggett, a FERPA specialist, stated that the university has the right to get access to student medical records, especially if entails the need for legal defense. This led to Denise Horn, a U.S. Department of Education representative of the time, to write a statement addressing that higher education institutions should comply with FERPA but also respect the expectation of confidentiality between patient and counselor/therapist. \n"}
{"id": "57795276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57795276", "title": "Purba Pakistan Sahitya Sangsad", "text": "Purba Pakistan Sahitya Sangsad\n\nPurba Pakistan Sahitya Sangsad (East Pakistan Literary Society) was a literary society of Bengali Muslims created to encourage Muslim nationalism in favor of Pakistan. It was located in Dhaka, East Pakistan.\n\nPurba Pakistan Sahitya Sangsad was established in 1942 in Dhaka following the adoption of the Pakistan Resolution by the All India Muslim League. The same year the East Pakistan Renaissance Society was founded in Kolkata for similar reasons. The Purba Pakistan Sahitya Sangsad promoted Muslim nationalism and encouraged support for Pakistan. It wanted to create a literary culture that reflected Islamic traditions. It encouraged the use of loan words from Arabic, Persian and Urdu languages to use in Bengali Literature. The founding President was Syed Sajjad Husain and the secretary was Syed Ali Ahsan. It published a weekly journal \"Paksik Pakistan\" (\"Pakistan Fortnightly\"). The organization was active till the Partition of India in 1947. It declined with the growing disillusionment of Bengalis in the Pakistan state and ended after the 1952 Language movement.\n"}
{"id": "25495415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25495415", "title": "Rembrandt Research Project", "text": "Rembrandt Research Project\n\nThe Rembrandt Research Project (RRP) is an initiative of the Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (NWO), which is the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research. Its purpose is to organize and categorize research on Rembrandt, with the aim of discovering new facts about this Dutch Golden Age painter and his studio. The project was started in 1968, but has since become the authority on Rembrandt and has final say in whether a painting is \"genuine\".\n\nAs a result of the project, which analyzed documentation, techniques, and forensic research on Rembrandt paintings from his early years in Leiden until his death, the number of signed Rembrandt \"self-portraits\" around the world has been reduced by half. Also, more paintings have been attributed to students working in the Rembrandt studio, and more has been discovered about the ways in which the students worked. Recently, period copies of Rembrandt paintings are being studied for clues as to whether certain copies were factory-style pieces for visiting functionaries. Rembrandt's work was in high demand for decades, and he managed to keep productivity up while also keeping his prices high by enforcing strict quality control on the work done in his studio.\n\nThe project's six-volume publication, \"A Corpus of Rembrandt Paintings\", is considered the definitive authority by all auction houses and dealers who work with works by Rembrandt and his studio. The research project has proved invaluable to art historians, and the lack of such a project for other prominent Dutch painters such as Frans Hals is felt sorely by museums and collectors trying to acquire the same sort of \"stamp of approval\" on their paintings. However, the project has also initiated debate about the feasibility of conclusive attribution, particularly for painters who were associated with one or more workshops.\n\n\nThe research project is also the single point of reference regarding concordance with other catalogs of the master's works, though most of these reference each other, as well. Below is a partial list of some commonly quoted catalogs:\n\nIn 1998, the pAn Amsterdam art fair showed a Rembrandt for the first time that until then had been attributed to his pupil Jacques des Rousseaux. This painting was first cataloged in 1917 by Abraham Bredius, who accepted it as a Rembrandt. Later Kurt Bauch rejected this based on a photograph and attributed it to Jan Lievens without ever having seen the painting. Werner Sumowski re-attributed the painting based on photographs to Rousseaux as a rebuttal to the arguments by art historians Bauch, Jakob Rosenberg and Horst Gerson. The Rembrandt Research project seeks to avoid such arguments by making attributions based on historical and forensic evidence. The study of Rembrandt's oevre includes study of drawings and etchings as well as paintings by a wide range of artists who were Rembrandt's contemporaries. Analysis of his techniques includes the study of paints and panel wood he and his contemporaries used, while x-rays of paintings reveal whether a painting is a copy based on the amount of \"discovery\" drawing in the underlayer.\n\nThe pAn 1998 catalog contains an article by Ernst van de Wetering with foto's of other depictions of the same man by Jan Lievens, Gerard Dou, and Jacques Rousseau (thus the mis-attribution). The man has clearly the same face in all four portraits.\n\nAccording to Van de Wetering, this is the man often referred to as \"Rembrandt's father\", who was probably not his father, but a functionary in the Leiden painters' guild or male model.\n\nIn early 2011, the RRP board voted to terminate the project by the end of 2011 even though approximately one-quarter of Rembrandt's oeuvre has not yet been investigated. A major reason for this decision was the lack of scholars available to assume responsibilities from the RRP's chair, Ernst van de Wetering, who has been involved with the project since 1968. Other reasons cited included lack of funding, as the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research ceased funding the project in 1998. However, with funding from the Mellon Foundation, the Netherlands Institute for Art History and the Mauritshuis have launched a pilot initiative called the Rembrandt Database that will build off of and supplement research from the RRP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26298756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26298756", "title": "Rice paddy art", "text": "Rice paddy art\n\nIn 1993, the people of Inakadate, in Aomori Prefecture, were looking for a way to revitalize their village. Archaeological exploration led to a realization that rice had been grown in the area for more than 2000 years. To honor this history, the villagers started a rice field behind the town hall. With the paddy as a canvas, the villagers cultivated and used four different types of heirloom and modern strains of rice to create a giant picture in the field. To allow viewing of the whole picture, a mock castle tower 22 meters high was erected at the village office. In 2006, more than 200,000 people visited the village to see the art.\n\nAnother observation tower was built looking down the Tambo art location 2 at Michi no eki Inakadate nicknamed “Yayoi no sato” or a village of prehistoric Yayoi period. Both places charge admission fees, while visitors are encouraged to take bus serving both location 1 and 2 to avoid traffic jam. In August 2015, a video camera was installed for both locations and started live stream the art, and they were registered on Google Street View the same year. A winter campaign since 2016 has been held on location 2 with instruction initially by snow artist Simon Beck.\n\nFor the first nine years, the farmers created a simple picture of Mount Iwaki before going to more complex designs.\n\nFollowing Inakadate's example, other villages such as Yonezawa in Yamagata prefecture have started to create their own tambo art.\n\nThe following is a list of the designs that have been used in the Inakadate pictures.\n\nEvery April, the villagers meet and decide what to plant for the year. Prior to planting, farmers sketch out the designs on computers to figure out where and how to plant the rice. In 2007, 700 people helped plant rice. In Inakadate, the fields used are approximately 15,000 square meters in area. Agreements between landowners have allowed for larger pictures to be created.\n\nIn 2008, it was planned to change the lower part of the field to include the logos of Japan Airlines and To-o Nippo, a local newspaper, for a reported 2 million yen to offset increased costs. The members of the local landowners' organization, along with the former mayor, protested, saying that the land would not be leased from the following year if the plan to display advertising logos was not abandoned. The village revitalization group voted by a narrow margin not to include the advertisements, and the seedlings that were planted were removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53944679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53944679", "title": "River of Blood (monument)", "text": "River of Blood (monument)\n\n\"The River of Blood\" is a monument located on a golf course on Lowes Island, Virginia owned by US President Donald Trump. A plaque signed with Trump's name states that the monument marks the place of numerous deaths in the American Civil War, although no listed battle nor publicly disclosed event with any recorded casualties took place at the site.\n\nThe site is on one of two golf courses belonging to the Trump National Golf Club on Lowes Island. Donald Trump acquired the club (formerly known as the Lowes Island Club) in 2009 for $13 million.\n\nOn the course, between the 14th hole and the 15th tee, Trump had a stone pedestal built with a flagpole on it, and had a plaque placed on the pedestal with the inscription:\n\nMany great American soldiers, both of the North and South, died at this spot, \"The Rapids\", on the Potomac River. The casualties were so great that the water would turn red and thus became known as \"The River of Blood\".\n\nThe plaque bears Trump's name and the Trump Organization's crest. The accompanying text reads, \"It is my great honor to have preserved this important section of the Potomac River!\"\n\nHistorians say no such event ever took place at this site. One local historian, Craig Swain, cited the killing of two soldiers by citizens in 1861 as the only Civil War event that occurred on the island.\n\nTwo years later, on June 27–28, 1863, General J.E.B. Stuart led 4,500 Confederate soldiers north across the Potomac at Rowser's Ford from the Lowes Island area, on the ride to Gettysburg, but no fatalities were recorded.\n\nAccording to the president of the Mosby Heritage Area Association, the only Civil War battle in the area was the Battle of Ball's Bluff, 11 miles upriver. Other historians consulted by \"The New York Times\" for a story in 2015 agreed; one of them had written to the Trump Organization about the falsehood. Trump himself disputed the historians' statements:\n\nThat was a prime site for river crossings. So, if people are crossing the river, and you happen to be in a civil war, I would say that people were shot — a lot of them.\n\n\"How would they know that?\" Mr. Trump asked when told that local historians had called his plaque a fiction. \"Were they there?\"\n\nTrump said that \"numerous historians\" had told him the story of the River of Blood, though he later changed that to say the historians had spoken to \"my people\". Finally he said, \"Write your story the way you want to write it. You don't have to talk to anybody. It doesn't make any difference. But many people were shot. It makes sense.\"\n\nThe story broke while the Donald Trump presidential campaign was in full swing, and journalist Rob Crilly noted that at that time he \"has had more weighty facts to clarify, such as his claim that Muslims in New Jersey cheered on the day of the 9/11 attacks – an old rumour that has long been discredited – and his latest boast, that he watched people jumping to their deaths from the Twin Towers from his Manhattan flat, four miles away\". According to Jack Holmes of \"Esquire\" magazine, the ahistorical marker is symptomatic of the Trump administration; Jack Holmes points at other historical blunders made by members of the Trump administration, including Kellyanne Conway's reference to the non-existent Bowling Green massacre and Sean Spicer's claim that even Hitler had not used chemical weapons, forgetting the Zyklon-B that was used in the Holocaust.\n\nOther commentators looked at Trump's plaque in the context of his admiration for President Andrew Jackson, expressed many times and especially in May 2017, when he appeared to suggest that Jackson lamented the Civil War despite having died sixteen years before its outbreak. \"Vocativ\"s Joe Lemire noted, \"the president has delved into revisionist history with the Civil War before\".\n"}
{"id": "3289550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289550", "title": "Simultaneous bilingualism", "text": "Simultaneous bilingualism\n\nSimultaneous bilingualism is a form of bilingualism that takes place when a child becomes bilingual by learning two languages from birth. According to Annick De Houwer, in an article in \"The Handbook of Child Language\", simultaneous bilingualism takes place in \"children who are regularly addressed in two spoken languages from before the age of two and who continue to be regularly addressed in those languages up until the final stages\" of language development. Both languages are acquired as first languages. This is in contrast to sequential bilingualism, in which the second language is learned not as a native language but a foreign language.\n\nIt is estimated that half of the world is functionally bilingual, and the majority of those bilinguals are 'native speakers' of their two languages. Wölck has pointed out that there are many \"native bilingual communities\", typically in South America, Africa, and Asia, where \"monolingual norms may be unavailable or nonexistent\".\n\nSome popular misconceptions about bilingualism include the ideas that bilingual children will not reach proficiency in either language and that they will be cognitively disadvantaged by their bilingualism. Many studies in the early 20th century found evidence of a \"language handicap\" in simultaneously bilingual children, linking bilingualism with a lower intelligence. However, many of these studies had serious methodological flaws. For example, several studies relating bilingualism and intelligence did not account for socioeconomic differences among well-educated, upper class monolingual children and less-educated (often immigrant) bilingual children.\n\nSome recent research on simultaneous bilinguals has actually found some evidence that they have a cognitive advantage over their monolingual counterparts, particularly in the areas of cognitive flexibility, analytical skill, and metalinguistic awareness. However, most studies agree that simultaneous bilinguals do not have any definitive cognitive edge over monolinguals.\n\nDespite these findings, many therapists and other professionals maintain that simultaneous bilingualism can be harmful for a child's cognitive development. One side argues that only one language should be spoken until fluently spoken and then incorporate the second language. The other side argues that the child, whether simultaneously bilingual or not, would still have speech issues. Some bilingual families have chosen to stop speaking a language after hearing about the supposed negative developmental effects of child bilingualism from people in authority.\n\nPeople were once concerned that being exposed to more than one language would be confusing and cause bilinguals to lag behind their monolingual peers in language development, but multiple researchers have refuted this claim. Bilinguals appear to acquire the same milestones—including when they say their first word, when they say their first telegraphic phrase, and when they obtain a vocabulary of fifty words—within the \"normal range of variation\" of monolingual development in each language. This is an analysis of overall vocabulary in bilinguals, as this is the more accurate and appropriate measure of language development in bilinguals. Analyzing only one of a bilingual individual's languages would seriously underestimate their true vocabulary knowledge. Note that any vocabulary deficits in one language are likely filled by knowledge in the other language, suggesting a likelihood that bilinguals know more vocabulary words than monolinguals in general. To this effect, researchers emphasize the importance of assessing overall vocabulary in bilinguals because assessing only one is an underestimation of their true knowledge, and when assessed in overall vocabulary bilingual children were no different from monolingual children in terms of language development.\n\nStudying bilingual acquisition is important because it may have real effects on academic performances for bilingual children in school. Research has shown that vocabulary size is an indicator of academic performance and literacy. As we know, different contexts can cause differences in vocabulary in each language. Despite these differences, have suggested that bilingual children are not necessarily disadvantaged in academic performance or academic spoken language because they have a good grasp on the language used for their academics. Regardless, home vocabulary is still relevant to academic life, and it is important to get a better balance in vocabulary acquisition to be able to effectively communicate in both languages.\n\nDue to the effects of environment on language acquisition, it is important that all languages are valued and have support for proper bilingual growth. This includes having proper resources to encourage learning and use of multiple languages. This is especially difficult in the United States where there are not many resources available to support bilingual growth, especially to people from lower socioeconomic backgrounds who do not have access to special bilingual schools.\n\nAs researchers have shown, context is also incredibly important to the acquisition of bilingual vocabulary. Speaking with children in different languages in different contexts will allow them to gain a more full vocabulary in each language. Furthermore, increasing the number of people children interact with in each language will provide them with more opportunities to learn in varied contexts. study provided evidence against the popular \"one-parent-one-language\" approach, as it restricted the contexts a child had for interactions and use of that language.\n\nAccording to De Houwer, there is no established normal development pattern for simultaneous bilinguals. However, similar language development patterns have been seen in bilingual and monolingual children. Language acquisition in simultaneous bilinguals generally takes two common forms of exposure to a second language:\n\n\nThe most influential factor in bilingual language acquisition is the languages spoken by parents to their children, and the languages spoken by others with whom the child comes into contact. This language exposure is called comprehensible input. In a 1984 edition of \"Bilingual Education Paper Series,\" Carolyn Kessler claimed that \"children develop faster in the language which is used most in their environment\", which may or may not reflect the language of the surrounding community.\nHowever, bilingual acquisition can also be affected by the amount of input, the separation of input, and the stability of input, as well as attitudes about bilingualism.\n\nIt is important to consider amount of input, because not only do the languages of each person affect bilingualism; the amount of time each main input carrier spends with the child also has an effect.\n\nIt may be the amount of exposure to each language that is the factor for whether or not a bilingual child develops similarly to a monolingual child in each of those languages. Research has shown that children who are exposed less to a language will have \"significantly lower receptive vocabulary scores for\" that language. By contrast, the receptive vocabulary of bilingual children does not appear to be different from that of monolingual children when 40% to 60% of their language exposure is to that language. Vocabulary size in each language appears to be affected by both the \"frequency of exposure\" and the \"differences in context of exposure\" to that language. Varying contexts of exposure provide more opportunities for bilingual children to learn more words. Bilinguals who are exposed to more of one language than another will perform similarly on tasks to monolinguals of that language, but they will lag behind in vocabulary of the other language.\n\nIn addition to exposure, research has shown that the context of the language exposure and language use also affects vocabulary. Particularly, studies have shown that vocabularies seem to be separated by a \"home context\" versus a \"school context\", depending on what language input they are getting in each. Because this pattern was seen across children with different language backgrounds, this suggests the differences in receptive vocabulary could not be attributable to the different cultural contexts, which has been suggested as an alternative explanation.\n\nThere is a spectrum ranging from zero to total separation of language by person. Usually, a simultaneous bilingual child's situation is somewhere in the middle. Some linguistic experts, dating from the early 20th century, have maintained that the best way to facilitate bilingual acquisition is to have each main input carrier (usually parents) use one and only one language with the child. By having each parent speak one of the two languages, this method (known as the ) attempts to prevent the child from confusing the two languages.\n\nHowever, the lack of language separation by person does not necessarily lead to failure to communicate effectively in two languages. Further studies have shown that a \"one person, one language\" approach may not be necessary for the early separation of language systems to occur. Children appear to be able to disentangle the two languages themselves.\n\nThere has been little research done on other methods of language separation. De Houwer points out that input may be separated by situation: for example, \"Finnish spoken by all family members inside the home but Swedish once they are outside.\"\n\nA change in a child's linguistic environment can trigger language attrition. Sometimes, when input for one language is lost before the final stage of development, children may lose their ability to speak the \"lost\" language. This leaves them able to speak only the other language, yet fully capable of understanding both.\n\nThe parents' expectations and knowledge about language development can be instrumental in raising simultaneously bilingual children. Parental attitudes toward \"their roles and linguistic choices\" also play a part in the child's linguistic development. The attitudes of the child's extended family and friends have been shown to affect successful bilingualism.\n\nThe extent to which a language is valued also has an effect on language acquisition in bilingual children. Languages that are deemed more useful or more important will dominate the bilingual mental lexicon while the less valued ones will not be acquired as fully. Studies have shown that children showed slower receptive vocabulary development in what they termed the 'minority' language while the children showed monolingual-like development in the 'majority' language. This has been attributed to the lack of opportunities bilinguals had available for the acquisition and development of their 'minority' language.\n\nOther studies have found that in a context where both languages are valued, the acquisition of the languages is not affected. This may be because there are more opportunities to use both languages.\n\nThese differences show the significance of language status on vocabulary acquisition because they show that less-valued languages will not be acquired to the same extent as more-valued languages. In this way, it is important to value all languages in order to fully acquire more than one language.\n\nVirginia Volterra and Traute Taeschner put forth an influential study in 1978, positing that bilingual children move from a stage where the two languages are lexically mixed into eventual structural differentiation between the languages. They theorized that until age two, a child does not differentiate between languages. There are 3 main stages identified by this hypothesis:\n\nStage One – L1 and L2 comprise one language system until approximately 3 years of age.\n\nStage Two – L1 vocabulary separates from L2 but the grammar remains as one language\n\nStage Three – The language systems become differentiated. The child is fully bilingual\n\nThis \"Unitary language system hypothesis,\" has been the subject of much debate in the linguistic world. Since its publication, this system has been discredited, and current linguistic evidence now points to two separate language systems.\n\nIn contrast, the Dual Language System Hypothesis states that bilinguals have a separate system for the L1 and L2 which they learn right from the start, so both languages can be acquired simultaneously. Research on vocabulary development have generally provided strong support for this theory. Monolingual children in early language development learn one term for each concept, so does a bilingual child, just that the bilingual child does so for both L1 and L2, and hence they know two language terms of the same concept that has similar meaning, which is also known as translational equivalents. The awareness of synonyms do not appear till a much later age. For example, they know that both 'two' in English and 'dos' in Spanish refer to the numerical number '2'.\n\nThis theory has been further supported by research on the acquisition of the grammatical and morphological components of language. By analyzing the speech of bilingual children where elements of the two languages differ, studies have revealed that children tend to incorporate the appropriate word order and agreement morphemes when speaking each language. Furthermore, research indicates that children form separate phonemes and phonological rules for different languages.\n\nResearch studying the acquisition of both spoken and sign language also lends support to this theory. A study examining the acquisition of both spoken and sign language by children of deaf parents indicated that the children acquired both languages in the same manner as children learning two spoken languages. Moreover, the study indicated that bilingual children, including those learning both spoken and sign language, were able to acquire various linguistic concepts at the same rate as monolinguistic children. While bilingual children tend to include mixed language in their speech, children acquiring both spoken and sign language have shown indications of simultaneous language mixing by both speaking and signing certain words together. Though it is only possible to observe this type of language mixing when the child is learning both spoken and sign language, it provides support for the Dual Language System Hypothesis, indicating that the simultaneous operation of separate two language systems could be a cause of language mixing by bilingual children.\n\nThe study of simultaneous bilingualism supplements general (monolingual) theories of child language acquisition. It particularly illuminates the critical role of the nature of language input in language development. This indicates that the form of language input must be similarly influential in monolinguals.\n\nHowever, it has proven difficult to compare monolingual and bilingual development, for a number of reasons:\n\nMeisel claims \"there is no reason to believe that the underlying principles and mechanisms of language development [in bilinguals] are qualitatively different from those used by monolinguals.\" Döpke has hypothesized that communication styles that facilitate monolingual development are a major variable in successful bilingual development.\nMeisel proposed in a 1990 article that \"bilinguals tend to focus more on formal aspects of language and are therefore able to acquire certain grammatical constructions faster than many or most monolinguals.\"\n\nOne area of language acquisition that has been studied extensively is the use of the disambiguation heuristic, which is the tendency by children to \"associate a novel word with a novel object\". This tendency has been observed in numerous studies conducted with monolingual children; however, it appears that bilingual children either somewhat use it or don't use it at all.\n\nByers‐Heinlein & Werker (2009) studied 48 17 and 18-month-old monolingual (English), bilingual, and trilingual (22 diverse languages) infants to compare their patterns on disambiguation. They studied infants at this age because this is when the heuristic has been shown to appear in monolingual infants. Additionally, they studied bilinguals from multiple diverse language backgrounds to show that the patterns were not language-specific but rather characteristic of bilingualism in general. they found that monolinguals showed disambiguation, bilinguals somewhat, and trilinguals did not. Byers‐Heinlein & Werker (2009) hypothesized that this was particularly an effect of translation equivalents (knowing the name for something in more than one language), as \"they represent a departure from the one-to-one mapping between word and concept that is typical of monolingual vocabularies\" (p 820). Indeed, in a later study conducted by Byers-Heinlein & Werker (2013) in 17–18 month-old Chinese-English bilingual infants, results showed that disambiguation did not occur in the infants who \"understood the translation equivalents for more than half of the words in their vocabularies\" (p. 407), while disambiguation occurred in those who knew fewer translation equivalents. They also suggested that the reverse could be possible—that infants who employed the heuristic were the ones that did acquire the translation equivalents because of the high level of one-to-one mapping. also say that disambiguation and language exposure are not correlated, but the presence or absence of translation equivalents could be attributed by the amount of exposure in each language the child gets. Particularly, if children receive more exposure in both languages, they are likely to have both words for a given object or concept, but if they have less exposure in one language they will likely lack the appropriate amount of translation equivalents, thereby exhibiting disambiguation.\n\nOne particularly fascinating aspect is determining how lexical structures are represented in the brains of bilinguals versus monolinguals, as bilinguals must map two different languages. Particularly, researchers have been interested in determining if a bilingual individual has two separate lexicons for each language or one containing both. found that the language input children received was important in \"determining how independent one language will be from the other in the child's mind\" (p. 646). Research on how lexical items are accessed in a bilingual brain has tended toward a mixed representation, where there is interconnectivity and some overlapping of the two lexicons but other items stay separated.\n\nSpreading activation, a process where similar concepts are activated when their neighbors are activated, is a widely accepted model of lexical access. It has been shown in both bilingual and monolingual individuals, with bilinguals showing activation in both languages during language research tasks. Multiple studies have shown that bilinguals recognize cognate words more quickly than non-cognate words, especially identical cognates, which produce the strongest effect. These effects occurred even when the participants knew ahead of time what language the target words would be in. Despite the specific language contexts, both languages are activated, showing that lexical access is not language-specific and that top-down processing is important in lexical access. Findings suggest that the amount of activation that occurred cross-linguistically was related to the similarity between the translation equivalents of the languages.\n\nThese findings suggest that when bilinguals read sentences, the language of the sentence does not necessarily act as an early cue for the restriction of the individual's lexical search to one language or the other. Rather, this decision is made later. This is similar to semantic priming in monolinguals. When monolinguals read a sentence that is semantically ambiguous (for example, in the sentence He saw the bug \"bug\" could mean insect or could mean a spy device), they will prime both meanings of the word and then later narrow it down to one. It is first a parallel process and then a serial process. When bilinguals read sentences, they go through a similar process with which language they should interpret the sentence.\n\nThis interconnectivity of both languages in the bilingual brain can also have effects on the way concepts are represented in the bilingual mind. There is a mutual influence that seems to occur in the bilingual brain. Studies of categorization by bilinguals show that categories are simplified in the brains of bilinguals compared to monolinguals. Specifically, the corresponding category centers (examples of typical category exemplars) were closer together for bilinguals than monolinguals. Additionally, bilinguals showed a pattern of having \"less complex category boundaries\" (p. 270), which is where atypical exemplars would be placed, and \"more similar centers of corresponding categories\" (p. 288) than monolinguals. This shows the mutual influence that two languages can have on the representation of concepts in the brain.\n\nMany have suggested that bilinguals have weaker connections in their lexical representations than monolinguals (Bialystok, Luk, Peets, & Yang, 2010; Ameel, Malt, Storms, & Van Assche, 2009). It is believed that this is because bilinguals get less practice with each language because they use each less often than a monolingual person uses their language, giving them half of the opportunity \"to receive feedback in each language\" and deepen their \"mappings between words and objects in each language\" (p. 272).\n\nThe findings of cross-lingual activation can be used as support for a model of interconnectivity of a bilingual individual's languages in their mental lexicon. The two languages are \"not separate and encapsulated\", but rather \"interrelated and subject to interaction\" (p. 272).\n\nVan Holzen relates the following:\n\n\"Bilingual Model of Lexical Access (BIMOLA)\"\nThis model suggests there are two \"separate but interconnected lexicons\" in the bilingual brain (p. 583). This, however, was discredited by a study done by Von Holzen & Mani (2012) because it does not provide a possible mechanism to explain the cross-language activation seen in studies of lexical access.\n\n\"Processing Rich Information from Multidimensional Interactive Representations (PRIMIR)\"\nThis model suggests one integrated phono-lexical system that is organized based on the different characteristics of language input. This model \"allows for both cross-language effects while also noting stronger within-language effects\" (Von Holzen & Mani, 2012, p. 583)\n\n\"Revised Hierarchical Model\"\nThis model suggests that first language words are linked to concepts while second language words are linked directly to first language words, not concepts, but the greater proficiency and skill a person has in the second language, the greater the link will be to the actual concepts themselves. This model can also be supported by research done on second language acquisition because when people learn new languages later in life they will learn translation equivalents and learn what certain words mean based on their first language words.\n\n\"Bilingual Interactive Activation + Model\"\nThis model is similar to the revised hierarchical model and suggests the lexicon of a bilingual individual is integrated, containing the words for both languages. This accounts for the simultaneous parallel activation of both languages during language tasks, the late activation of language in semantic processing, and the lack of effects of code switching. This lack of cost for code switching is especially used because they argue that separate lexicons would cause a slower reaction time, which was not indicated in the findings.\n\nThough the simultaneous bilingual child learns two languages at once, this does not mean that he or she speaks them with identical competence. It is common for young simultaneous bilinguals to be more proficient in one language than the other, and this is probably related to each child's relative exposure to each language; for example, many bilingual children are more proficient in the mother's than the father's language, arguably because their mothers assume most of the childcare responsibilities and/or simply spend more time with their children. The dominant language is almost always the language spoken by the greatest number of the people the child interacts with (generally the language the child is educated in). The child sees this language as most effective and begins to favor it. However, their dominant language need not be their L1. In addition, it is possible to show language dominance in one language for one domain and dominance in the other language for another domain. For example, a child may be dominant in his or her L1 at home, but in the school context, his or her L2 becomes the dominant language being used.\n\nCode-switching occurs when a child combines more than one language in a single utterance. This phenomenon is also seen in bilingual adults. Bilingual children most often engage in intrasentential code-switching, switching languages in the middle of a sentence. Bilingual children code-switch for several reasons, including the following:\n\nBilingual children often interject words from the other language when they do not know or cannot remember the equivalent, and when one language has no suitable equivalent in the other. Taeschner found that bilingual children prefer to insert elements of the other language rather than use simplified forms.\n\nCode-switching has also been tied to the bilingual child's socialization process. According to Poplack, a bilingual child code-switches based on the perceived linguistic norms of the situation and the perceived bilingual ability of the hearer.\n\nChildren will mirror their parents in this aspect of speech. If a child's parents engage in code-switching in their own speech, this will affect the child's perception of the appropriateness of mixing languages.\n\nThere is currently no differentiation of normal and deviant bilingual development.\n\nFurther study into the effects of changing a child's linguistic environment could uncover the minimal language input required to maintain \"active use potential\" in a particular language.\n\nSimultaneous trilingualism is also possible. There is significantly less research in this area than in simultaneous bilingualism. However, trilingual language acquisition in young children has been shown to generally mirror bilingual acquisition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33499394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33499394", "title": "Sleepy Holler", "text": "Sleepy Holler\n\nSleepy Holler is a silent animated short film by Winkler Pictures, and stars Krazy Kat. It is the character's last silent film. It is also the last film of the series to be distributed by Paramount.\n\nKrazy Kat is a hired baby-sitter who looks after three kittens owned by a hefty nagging woman. His duties include rocking the offsprings to sleep, make breakfast, and wash the chinaware. All of which he does simultaneously while in his chair. One day, he is so worn out that he takes a snooze in his seat.\n\nIn his dream, Krazy finds himself in a blank room. After looking around for a few moments, he was amazed to access a bed hidden in one of the walls. He then puts on a nightgown and gets in the bed. But before he could sleep, the three kittens, who are already grown and walking, entered the room. They were marching and playing drums. Bothered by the racket, Krazy tells them to play somewhere but the little cats refused. Attempting to force them out, he hurled boots and other objects. Just then, the nagging woman came in, and the kittens were quick to blame the situation on him. Not wanting to experience any abuse, Krazy gets off the bed and walks out of the door.\n\nWondering the outside, Krazy desperately looks for places where he could relax. Finding a rock under some trees, the feline lies down and puts his head on it. However, disturbances like falling branches and rain kept him awake. When the showers ended, Krazy went to lie on a pile of sand, burying part of himself in the dirt. But it appears there was a bear under the pile which rises, rambles, and unknowingly carries him for a few paces. Surprised by this, Krazy jumps off and goes on walking.\n\nKrazy then arrives in a city. There, he saw a shop displaying a bed in the window. As good news to him, he reads an ad hiring someone who would like to prove the bed's quality by dozing in it. Krazy goes inside the shop and takes the job. As he sleeps in the featured product, passers-by outside stopped in front of the store and took notice.\n\nFinally, Krazy woke up from his dream and realizes he is still in the kittens' home. The kittens were still in the crib and too young to stand on their feet. The nagging woman then comes in and tells him to resume his work.\n\n"}
{"id": "2736240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2736240", "title": "Snake wine", "text": "Snake wine\n\nSnake wine (蛇酒, pinyin: shéjiǔ; \"rượu rắn\" in Vietnamese) is an alcoholic beverage produced by infusing whole snakes in rice wine or grain alcohol. The drink was first recorded to have been consumed in China during the Western Zhou dynasty (ca. 1040–770 BC) and considered an important curative and believed to reinvigorate a person according to Traditional Chinese medicine. It can be found in China, Goa (India), Vietnam, and throughout Southeast Asia.\n\nThe snakes, preferably venomous ones, are not usually preserved for their meat but to have their \"essence\" and snake venom dissolved in the liquor. The snake venom poses no threat to the drinker. It is denatured by the ethanol—its proteins are unfolded and therefore inactive— and would be denatured by stomach acid anyway.\n\nThe Huaxi street night market (華西街夜市) of Taipei, Taiwan, is renowned for its snake foods and wine products.\n\nThere are two main types of snake wine, which utilize either parts of a live snake, or the entire snake itself.\n\nSnakes and their tissue portions have long been considered by followers of Traditional Chinese medicine to be invaluable for the promotion of vitality and health. The drink was first recorded to be used in China during the Western Zhou dynasty (771 BC) and the medicinal use of snakes was noted in the medical manual \"Shen nong ben cao jing\" (神农本草经) compiled between 300 B.C. and 200 A.D. The detailed use of various snake species, their body parts, and various preparations were greatly elaborated in the medical manual Bencao Gangmu (本草綱目) of Li Shizhen in the Ming dynasty.\n\nSnake wine can be found in many areas of Vietnam, Southeast Asia and Southern China.\n\nSnakes are widely believed to possess medicinal qualities and the wine is often advertised to cure everything from farsightedness to hair loss, as well as to increase sexual performance. In Vietnam, snake wine (Rượu rắn) is widely believed by some individuals to improve health and virility. A similar drink is made with geckos or sea horses rather than snakes. Snake wine, due to its high alcohol percentage, is traditionally drunk in shot glasses. Braver drinkers may eat certain parts of the snake, such as the gall bladder, eyeballs and the stomach.\n\nIt is illegal to import snake wine to many countries because the cobras and other snakes killed in the production are often endangered species.\n\n"}
{"id": "1117658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1117658", "title": "Social model of disability", "text": "Social model of disability\n\nThe social model of disability is a reaction to the dominant medical model of disability which in itself is a functional analysis of the body as machine to be fixed in order to conform with normative values. The social model of disability identifies systemic barriers, negative attitudes and exclusion by society (purposely or inadvertently) that mean society is the main contributory factor in disabling people. While physical, sensory, intellectual, or psychological variations may cause individual functional limitation or impairments, these do not have to lead to disability unless society fails to take account of and include people regardless of their individual differences. The origins of the approach can be traced to the 1960s; the specific term emerged from the United Kingdom in the 1980s.\n\nIn 1975, the UK organization Union of the Physically Impaired Against Segregation (UPIAS) claimed: \"In our view it is society which disables physically impaired people. Disability is something imposed on top of our impairments by the way we are unnecessarily isolated and excluded from full participation in society.\"\nIn 1983, the disabled academic Mike Oliver coined the phrase \"social model of disability\" in reference to these ideological developments. Oliver focused on the idea of an individual model (of which the medical was a part) versus a social model, derived from the distinction originally made between impairment and disability by the UPIAS.\n\nThe \"social model\" was extended and developed by academics and activists in Australia, the UK, US and other countries, and extended to include all disabled people, including those who have learning difficulties / learning disabilities / or who are intellectually disabled, or people with emotional, mental health or behavioural problems.\n\nOliver did not intend the \"social model of disability\" to be an all encompassing theory of disability, rather a starting point in reframing how society views disability.\n\nA fundamental aspect of the social model concerns equality. The struggle for equality is often compared to the struggles of other socially marginalized groups. Equal rights are said to give empowerment and the \"ability\" to make decisions and the opportunity to live life to the fullest. A related phrase often used by disability rights campaigners, as with other social activism, is \"Nothing About Us Without Us.\"\n\nThe social model of disability focuses on changes required in society. These might be in terms of:\n\n\nThe social model of disability implies that attempts to change, \"fix\" or \"cure\" individuals, especially when used against the wishes of the patient, can be discriminatory and prejudiced. This attitude, which may be seen as stemming from a medical model and a subjective value system, can harm the self-esteem and social inclusion of those constantly subjected to it (e.g. being told they are not as good or valuable, in an overall and core sense, as others). Some communities have actively resisted \"treatments\", while, for example, defending a unique culture or set of abilities. In the deaf community, sign language is valued even if most people do not know it and some parents argue against cochlear implants for deaf infants who cannot consent to them. People diagnosed as being on the autism spectrum may argue against efforts to change them to be more like others. They argue instead for acceptance of neurodiversity and accommodation to different needs and goals. Some people diagnosed with a mental disorder argue that they are just different and don't necessarily conform. The biopsychosocial model of disease/disability is a holistic attempt by practitioners to address this.\n\nThe social model implies that practices such as eugenics are founded on social values and a prejudiced understanding of the potential and value of those labeled disabled. \"Over 200,000 disabled people were the first victims of the Holocaust.\"\n\nA 1986 article stated: \"It is important that we do not allow ourselves to be dismissed as if we all come under this one great metaphysical category 'the disabled'. The effect of this is a depersonalization, a sweeping dismissal of our individuality, and a denial of our right to be seen as people with our own uniqueness, rather than as the anonymous constituents of a category or group. These words that lump us all together -'the disabled', 'spina bifida', 'tetraplegic', 'muscular dystrophy’, - are nothing more than terminological rubbish bins into which all the important things about us as people get thrown away.\"\n\nThe social model of disability is based on a distinction between the terms \"impairment\" and \"disability.\" Impairment is used to refer to the actual attributes (or lack of attributes), the abnormality, of a person, whether in terms of limbs, organs or mechanisms, including psychological. Disability is used to refer to the restrictions caused by society when it does not give equivalent attention and accommodation to the needs of individuals with impairments.\n\nThe social model also relates to economics. It proposes that people can be disabled by a lack of resources to meet their needs. It addresses issues such as the under-estimation of the potential of people to contribute to society and add economic value to society, if given equal rights and equally suitable facilities and opportunities as others. Economic research on companies that attempt to accommodate disability in their workforce suggest they outperform competitors.\n\nIn Autumn 2001, the UK Office for National Statistics identified that approximately one fifth of the working age population was disabled - 7.1 million disabled people as opposed to 29.8 million able people - and in this analysis also provided insight into some of the reasons why disabled people were unwilling to enter the labour market, such as that the reduction in disability benefits in entering the labour market would not make it worthwhile to enter into employment. A three-pronged approach was suggested: \n\"incentives to work via the tax and benefit system, for example through the Disabled Person’s Tax Credit; helping people back into work, for example via the New Deal for Disabled People; and tackling discrimination in the workplace via anti-discrimination policy. Underpinning this are the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA) 1995 and the Disability Rights Commission.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Disability Discrimination Act defines disability using the medical model - disabled people are defined as people with certain conditions, or certain limitations on their ability to carry out \"normal day-to-day activities.\" But the requirement of employers and service providers to make \"reasonable adjustments\" to their policies or practices, or physical aspects of their premises, follows the social model. By making adjustments, employers and service providers are removing the barriers that disable - according to the social model, they are effectively removing the person's disability. In 2006, amendments to the act called for local authorities and others to actively promote disability equality. This enforcement came in the shape of the Disability Equality Duty in December 2006. In 2010, The Disability Discrimination Act (1995) was amalgamated into the Equality Act 2010 along with other pertinent discrimination legislation. It extends the law on discrimination to indirect discrimination. For example, if a carer of a person with a disability is discriminated against, this is now also unlawful. Since October 2010, when it came into effect, employers may not legally ask questions about illness or disability at interview for a job or for a referee to comment on such in a reference, except where there is a need to make reasonable adjustments for an interview to proceed. Following an offer of a job, an employer can lawfully ask such questions.\n\nIn the United States, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), revision of 2008 effective in January 2009, is a wide-ranging civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on disability. It affords similar protections against discrimination to Americans with disabilities as the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which made discrimination based on race, religion, sex, national origin, and other characteristics illegal. Certain specific conditions are excluded, such as alcoholism and transsexualism.\n\nIn 2007, the European Court of Justice in the Chacon Navas v Eurest Colectividades SA court case, defined disability narrowly according to a medical definition that excluded temporary illness, when considering the Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation (Council Directive 2000/78/EC). The directive did not provide for any definition of disability, despite discourse in policy documents previously in the EU about endorsing the social model of disability. This allowed the Court of Justice to take a narrow medical definition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52337803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52337803", "title": "Spoon class theory", "text": "Spoon class theory\n\nThe spoon class theory refers to the idea that individuals in a country can be classified into different socioeconomic classes based on the assets and income level of their parents, and as a consequence, one's success in life depends entirely on being born into a wealthy family. The term appeared in 2015 and was first widely used among online communities in South Korea.\n\nThe theory is thought to originate from the well-known English idiom \"born with a silver spoon in one's mouth\". In the past, European nobility often used silver dishes, and children were fed by nannies using silver spoons, which indicated the wealth of the family. In South Korea, this idea was taken further to establish several categories to classify individuals based on their family's wealth.\n\nThe spoon classes have been identified as follows:\n\nHyo Chan Cho, the author of hyper-reality shock, explained that the meaning of gold spoon, which is common in Korea's society, \"is related to Jean Baudrillard's simulacrum\". He suggested that the gold spoon is included in a simulacrum that doesn't have an origin. Issues of gold spoon celebrities and commercials which made those people idealize changed nonexistence as existence. Regardless of the pros and cons of a gold spoon, it became an important image of their life. He further stated that as our society accepted images like gold spoon which became a hyperreality. We accept media's reproducing images that don't have originals as more than an existence. ‘Simulacrum' means an image without substance, it wields strong influence than an existence.\n\nYoung adults preparing for significant life changes such as college, marriage or employment are concerned that they are at a disadvantage. For example, many corporations in Korea require stellar academic performance and for applicants to speak English fluently. Individuals who come from the upper class can advance themselves due to the wealth and power that their parents or family possess. Young people who come from the middle and lower class are at a disadvantage because often they are expected to work and attend school, coupled with the fact that they are not being provided with the same monetary support as their wealthier peers. This economic polarization not only influences employment but also affects other things like marriage. The causes of inequality in this society are economic and the fact that poverty is passed from generation to generation. This inequality is creating new classes in Korean society. However, some people overcome their parent's low economic class. Some people who were raised in wealthy families criticize this as well. Unfairness in Korean society is becoming a burden for young adults and is making the Korean society similar to the one described in the spoon class theory.\n\nPark Jae-wan, a professor at Sungkyunkwan University analyzed spoon class theory in research on social mobility. \"The distribution of income in Korea is close to that of advanced countries, considering Gini coefficient, relative income share, income share, and relative poverty rate.\" \"The basis of 'Helos' or 'gold spoon' claims is weak\". According to the results of estimating the probability that each income group will remain in the same class for the whole household from 2011 to 12, it is 29.8 per cent for low income class, 38.2 per cent for middle class and 32.0 per cent for high income class. Park Jae-wan suggested, \"As the results of the analysis, Korea is still highly likely to move.\" However, the pace of stratification has been slowing since the financial crisis, mainly because the poverty has been fixed, particularly among the elderly. \" He cited the following five causes of Spoon class theory. 1. Youth unemployment 2. Reinforced pass down 3. Government regulation and vested interest 4. Relative tendency and relative deprivation of Koreans 5. Bad social capital.\n\nHan Jun, professor of sociology at Yeonsei University said, \"Raising the possibility of social mobility is also an important task in terms of social vitality and social integration.\" It requires policy efforts to care for the physical and mental health of low-income vulnerable children, academic aspirations, and cognitive abilities, Emphasis should be given to schools in low-income vulnerable groups and rural and rural areas. \"\n\nLee Byeong-hoon, professor of sociology at Chung-Ang University, said, \"Negative and critical perceptions of opportunistic inequality in our society seem to be influenced by factors such as hierarchy status and experience of discrimination.\" According to the analysis, the subject and parental generations have low subjective status, experience of discrimination and disadvantages, and younger and higher educated people have higher negative and critical perception of opportunity inequality. In addition, the perception of socioeconomic opportunity inequality, the severity of inequality in opportunity, and the negative perception of effort achievement were found to be higher in the order of lower income class, middle class, and higher income class.\n\nIn the 1980s, the share of assets contributed by gifts and inheritance was 27 per cent, age groups spanning 19 to 75 years old: 181 men born between 1940 and 1959, the generation of industrialization; 593 men born between 1960 and 1974, the generation of democracy; and 568 men born between 1975 and 1995, the information generation\".\"\n\nThe results of the poll found that the spoon class theory not only existed in Korea but deepened with each successive generation. The study showed that the persistence of poverty across generations has deepened, with 50.7 per cent in the youngest generation answering that both father and son were in the lower class – an increase of almost 15 per cent from the 36.4 per cent who answered the same in the democracy generation. \n\nIn the oldest generation, only 35.9 per cent answered that both father and son were considered in the lower class\".\"\n\nCEO Score Daily '(2017) analyzed the assets fluctuation of 2007 ~ 2017 among the 160 wealthy stockholders of Korea, the United States, Japan and China (for each of the top 40) announced by Forbes. As a result, There are 48 (30 per cent) rich men in the four countries, and the wealthy self-And 112 patients (70 per cent). In Korea, 25 out of 40 equity holders (62.5 per cent) were 'Gold Spoon' It is much higher than that of the US (25 per cent), Japan (12 per cent) and China (2.5 per cent)\n\n\"As a result of analyzing the percentage of social movements by generation,\" said Han Jun, a professor of sociology at Yonsei University, \"social movements decreased slightly from 85 percent to 81 percent compared to 20 years ago.\" According to the analysis, the younger generation (born in 1987–1994) compared to the young people in the 1990s (1966–75) had a 12 per cent decrease in the percentage of upward movements that gained a better job than their parents, The mobility rate has increased by about 8 percentage points, and social mobility has changed negatively. Professor Han Jun pointed out, \"The problem is that the decrease in the mobility opportunity that I feel subjective is bigger than the actual one.\" According to the National Statistical Office (NSO), the negative perception of upside potential is 22 per cent more than 10 years ago (from 29 to 51 per cent) as of 2015.\n\nKorea's income mobility was the eighth highest among the 17 OECD member countries. Korea's income mobility is not relatively low, said Lee Jin-young, an assistant researcher at the Korea Economic Research Institute. According to the analysis of the inter-generation income elasticity of OECD member countries, Korea's income elasticity is 0.29, similar to New Zealand (0.29) and Sweden (0.27). On the other hand, Japan was higher than Korea with 0.34, 0.47 in the US and 0.32 in Germany.\n\nIn 2015, Korean society entered into a new class era as inequality increased. According to Global Attitudes Survey conducted by Pew Research Center, Korean citizens answered that the most threatening thing for them is inequality. However, the conclusion that inequality has a similar effect for all cultures should not be automatically assumed, since at least \"8 other countries were content with inequality\", including Greece. In contrast, Japan answered that nuclear weapons and radioactivity are most threatening. The results of this survey shows that the awareness of inequality is much higher than nuclear accidents and environmental pollution. \n\nThe suspected unqualified admission of Chung Yoo-ra to Ewha University is an example of nut rage. Chung Yoo-ra is a South Korean female dressage rider. She competed in the 2014 Asian Games, where she won a team gold medal. She is the daughter of Choi Sun-sil, who was a central figure in the 2016 South Korean political scandal. She is suspected of unqualified admission to the Ewha University.\n\n"}
{"id": "23180101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23180101", "title": "Teatro Orientación (Mexico)", "text": "Teatro Orientación (Mexico)\n\nThe Teatro Orientación is a theater in Mexico City that opened its doors on April 30 of 1958. It was named after Teatro Orientación group, an experimental theater group from the 1930s.\n"}
{"id": "1060418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1060418", "title": "The 10th Kingdom", "text": "The 10th Kingdom\n\nThe 10th Kingdom is an American fairytale fantasy miniseries written by Simon Moore and produced by Britain's Carnival Films, Germany's Babelsberg Film und Fernsehen, and the USA's Hallmark Entertainment. It depicts the adventures of a young woman and her father after they are transported from New York City, through a magical mirror into a parallel world of fairy tales.\n\nThe miniseries was initially broadcast over five nights in two-hour episodes on NBC, beginning February 27, 2000. It won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Main Title Design in 2000. The premiere had over 14.04 million viewers.\n\nIn a hidden realm, fairy tale characters inhabit nine magical kingdoms where an Evil Queen plots to rule them. She is trapped in the Fourth Kingdom Prison under the rule of Prince Wendell, the spoiled, arrogant grandson of Snow White. Weeks before his coronation ceremony, the Queen enlists the help of the brutal Troll King and his three children to release her before the Prince makes his annual visit to the prison.\n\nPrince Wendell is captured by the Evil Queen, who is his wicked stepmother and turns him into a Golden Retriever while her very own Retriever is transformed into Wendell. In panic, the transformed Prince flees through the Prison and stumbles across a traveling mirror in the basement and is transported to New York City. The Troll King orders his bumbling children Burly, Blabberwort and Bluebell to bring back the escaped Prince while the Queen releases a half-wolf prisoner (who is simply called Wolf) to retrieve him instead.\n\nMeanwhile, regular Manhattan inhabitants, headstrong waitress Virginia Lewis and her oafish father Tony encounter the mishaps caused by the new magical arrivals to the city; including Wolf falling helplessly in love with Virginia and Tony being given six wishes (which he foolishly uses for personal gain and have a tendency to backfire). With Virginia having already determined that the transformed Wendell- whom she calls 'Prince' before learning his identity- is more than a standard dog, Tony uses his last wish to wish for the ability to understand the dog, who urges them to travel back to The Nine Kingdoms with him to break the spell. Tony, feeling responsible for Prince, reluctantly accepts and Virginia and Tony are taken back to the realm through the magic mirror.\n\nAt first, Tony and Virginia are desperate to get home with the magic mirror being taken from place to place around the Kingdoms, being cleared out of the prison, taken as a prize for a sheep-rearing contest, and then sold in an auction. The group travel the lands in pursuit of the mirror, facing many dangers and challenges in the process, including Virginia's hair being enchanted to an impossible length, the Queen's Huntsman, and a conspiracy by the descendants of Little Bo Peep to control a town's wishing well. During their journey, Wolf questions his loyalty to the Queen in order to gain favour with the stubborn Virginia and quickly sides with them. This act prompts the Queen to send her relentless and cold-blooded Huntsman to capture the Prince along with Virginia and Tony.\n\nVirginia eventually meets the ghost of Snow White, who reveals she is destined to save the Nine Kingdoms. Tony also recognizes the Queen as his long lost wife and Virginia’s mother. They travel to the castle to stop her, but Wolf seems to have betrayed Tony and Virginia. They are thrown into the dungeons where Tony reveals to Virginia that her mother had been suffering a mental breakdown and had tried to drown Virginia the night she left. The Queen has her imposter Prince Wendell crowned king and then tries to poison all the monarchs who attend the ceremony.\n\nLuckily, Wolf switches the poison for a sleeping potion in which everyone wakes up unharmed. Virginia must kill the Evil Queen in self-defense which pains her greatly. The real Prince Wendell turns back into a human and takes the throne, pardoning the trolls to return to their kingdom after the death of their father. Grateful to Tony for all of his help, Prince Wendell offers him a job at the palace which he accepts. Virginia returns to New York City accompanied by Wolf.\n\n\nSimon Moore, writer of the screenplay, wondered about what happened after the Happily Ever After of old fairytales. His vision became \"The 10th Kingdom\".\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\" \"There are humorous allusions to familiar characters like the Seven Dwarfs and Rapunzel throughout the 10 hours and appearances by updated versions of Snow White (Camryn Manheim) and Cinderella (Ann-Margret).\" Executive producer Robert Halmi Sr. explains, \"We wanted to take the flip side of these well-known characters. For instance, our Cinderella is now 200 years old. And Camryn took her part because she loved the idea that Snow White was now overweight.\" Camryn Manheim elaborates, \"Well, I've been playing her in my bedroom for many years now, so I was ready for her. But it was wonderful, I grew up reading about Snow White and fantasizing about being the fairest of them all, and there I was. My manager told me that NBC had offered me the role of Snow White and I said, 'I'll take it.' I agreed to do it even before reading the script because I was so thrilled that they were moving away from the conventional Snow White. I am playing Snow White, and we've come very far from that image when I grew up and we're getting all kinds of images of beauty. So it was really thrilling to get in that tight corset and be able to accentuate my assets, no pun intended and, yes, it was a throwback to my finer days\"\n\"The Times\" reported that Virginia Lewis's portrayer, Kimberly Williams, \"prefers to work in film and theatre rather than television. \"Because TV happens so fast, I feel a sense of panic,\" she explains. Yet, despite the misgivings, she could not resist the offer to star in \"The 10th Kingdom\" alongside Dianne Wiest, Jimmy Nail and Rutger Hauer. \"Simon has woven together all the old fairytales and updated them, exploring what happened after Happily Ever After,\" explains Williams, whose character Virginia is a New York waitress thrust into a parallel world inhabited by trolls, talking dogs and evil stepmothers.\".\n\nThe miniseries was initially broadcast as five 2-hour episodes on NBC, beginning February 27, 2000. \"The 10th Kingdom\" won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Main Title Design in 2000.\n\nIt was broadcast in the United Kingdom on Sky One.\n\nIt received mostly positive reviews and currently holds an audience score of a 100% on Rotten Tomatoes. Variety's Laura Fries (Feb. 21, 2000) asserted that \"Kimberly Williams is doe-eyed and pretty and is heavily featured throughout, but 10 hours is a lot for this star to carry on her shoulders.\" Christopher Null \"Filmcritic.com\" felt that \"Larroquette was an unfortunate casting choice. 30 minutes of \"Night Court\" has always been my limit on the guy. 417 minutes is too much of his abrasive attitude to handle.\"\n\nDuring the original airing of \"The 10th Kingdom\" there was a toll-free number displayed so that one could order a set of the novelization, the CD soundtrack, and the entire miniseries on three VHS tapes. In May 2000, \"The 10th Kingdom\" was released by Hallmark Entertainment and Artisan Entertainment (now Lions Gate Entertainment) on VHS as both a two tape set and as an Extended Play single tape edition. Approximately two hours of the miniseries was cut out to make it fit on two tapes. None of the footage dealt with major plot elements, but the sheer amount removed resulted in a significantly different viewing experience. \n\nThe miniseries was later released as aired on a three disc DVD set in October 2000. A two disc set followed in May 2002, which utilized one double sided disc and one single sided disc and included the special feature \"The 10th Kingdom: The Making of an Epic\", hosted by John Larroquette. The complete 5 episode series was made available for instant streaming on Netflix as of the 3rd week of August 2012. This is the first time the series was presented in individual episode format since the initial broadcast on NBC. \n\nOn March 19, 2013, after several years of unavailability, Mill Creek Entertainment reissued the complete miniseries on 3 DVDs, retaining the making-of featurette and presents the miniseries as five separate parts. Also on that date, it was made available on Amazon.\n\nOn November 3, 2015, Mill Creek Entertainment released \"The 10th Kingdom - \"15th Anniversary Special Edition\"\" Blu-ray, marking its first-ever high-definition release.\n\nThe novelization, released in February 2000 by Hallmark-Kensington Books, was written by Kristine Kathryn Rusch and Dean Wesley Smith under the name Kathryn Wesley. The novel was based on an early version of the script; however, only a few differences exist between the novel and the film, with most being slight changes in conversations and other minor details. For a number of years it was available in a package with the VHS release of the movie and the soundtrack, but it is now out of print.\n\nVarèse Sarabande released a soundtrack album on compact disc, featuring the score by Anne Dudley and the Miriam Stockley cover version of \"Wishing on a Star\" heard over the opening title and end credits of each episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13956051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13956051", "title": "The Quincunx", "text": "The Quincunx\n\nThe Quincunx (The Inheritance of John Huffam) is the epic first novel of Charles Palliser. It takes the form of a Dickensian mystery set in early 19th century England, but Palliser has added the modern attributes of an ambiguous plot and unreliable narrators. Many of the puzzles that are apparently solved in the story have an alternative solution in the subtext.\n\nThe novel begins in London with a secret meeting between two legal men. A bribe reveals the confidential details of a correspondent who is the link to a vital hidden document. Meanwhile, young John Mellamphy is growing up in the remote countryside with his mother Mary, ignorant of the name of Huffam. Gradually it becomes clear that they are threatened by the search for the document.\n\n\n\"The Quincunx\" was a surprise bestseller. It is notable for its portrayal of 19th century England, covering the breadth of society from the gentry to the poor and from provincial villages to metropolitan London, and its dealing with the eccentricities of English land law. In a review citing parallels with \"Great Expectations\", \"Little Dorrit\", \"Our Mutual Friend\", \"Martin Chuzzlewit\", \"The Pickwick Papers\", \"Oliver Twist\" and \"Nicholas Nickleby\", Michael Malone has written that,\n\"Mr. Palliser appears to have set out not merely to write a Dickens novel but to write all Dickens novels\". But Palliser looked beyond Dickens for his depiction of the social conditions, drawing on Mayhew's \"London Labour and the London Poor\".\n\nJ. Hillis Miller points out that, \n\"The conventions ... of Dickens’ novels,\nare made salient through parody and exaggeration, just as a\npostmodern building makes the fragility and artifice of those old styles\nevident...\" But Palliser differs from Dickens in that there are \"no benevolent father figure, no guiding Providence, almost no\ngood people, no guarantee that justice will eventually be done,\nnothing, for the most part, but uncertainty and prolonged suffering. It\nis as though Palliser were saying: 'Let me show you what things were\nreally like at that time'.\"\n\nThe book is deeply researched. For example, the plot turns on an aspect of inheritance law - the distinction between a \"fee simple\" and a \"base fee\" with a \"remainderman\". Another crucial point is the timing of John Huffam's birth, indicated by reference to contemporary events such as the Ratcliff Highway murders, the Great Comet of 1811, Wellington's capture of Ciudad Rodrigo, and the passing of the Rose act determining how parish register entries should be made. On another level the hero's name hints that the author may have given him the same birth date as Charles John Huffam Dickens.\n\nThe novel has a fivefold structure. It is divided into five parts, each taking the name of one of the families linked to the inheritance. Each part is then divided into five books, and each book is divided into five chapters.\n\nAt the beginning of each part, a quincunx of quatrefoil roses from the relevant family's arms are displayed. These then reappear as a count of one to five roses at the start of each Book. At the end of the novel all five families' devices are combined in a larger design, a quincunx of quincunxes. The pattern of narration of the 125 chapters - John Huffam, an omniscient narrator and a third person - exactly matches the colour pattern - white, black and red - of the 125 elements of the design.\nThe mixture of first-person and detached narration is similar to the alternation between Esther Summerson's story and a neutral point of view in \"Bleak House\".\nPalliser also notes that the heart of the book is an account taken from a journal which has a further subdivision into five \"Relations\" and a central ambiguity made by some missing pages. The information in the journal (as John Huffam suggests obliquely at the end of the book) is a key to reinterpreting all the events.\n\nThe design of the five families' devices is also important within the story, when it is the key to the secret hiding place of the second will.\n\nAt the end of each Part of 25 chapters, a partially revealed family tree is given, showing the relationships as John so far understands them.\n\nThe book also includes extracts from Richard Horwood's 1813 map showing key locations in London. The rural locations are, however, fictional. Although the central settlement is on the York-London road and shares its name with Hougham in Lincolnshire the story contradicts this identification by placing it 159 miles from London.\n\nSue Kaufman Prize for First Fiction 1991\n\n"}
{"id": "45114008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45114008", "title": "Traian Herseni", "text": "Traian Herseni\n\nTraian Herseni (February 18, 1907 – July 17, 1980) was a Romanian social scientist, journalist, and political figure. First noted as a favorite disciple of Dimitrie Gusti, he helped establish the Romanian school of rural sociology in the 1920s and early '30s, and took part in interdisciplinary study groups and field trips. A prolific essayist and researcher, he studied isolated human groups across the country, trying to define relations between sociology, ethnography, and cultural anthropology, with an underlying interest in sociological epistemology. He was particularly interested in the peasant cultures and pastoral society of the Făgăraș Mountains. Competing with Anton Golopenția for the role of Gusti's leading disciple, Herseni emerged as the winner in 1937; from 1932, he also held a teaching position at the University of Bucharest.\n\nHerseni became a committed eugenicist and racial scientist, who discarded a moderate left-wing stance to embrace fascism, and parted ways with Gusti over his support for the Iron Guard. He was nevertheless protected during the anti-Guard backlash of 1938, when Gusti made him a clerk within the Social Service, part of the National Renaissance Front apparatus. A leading functionary and ideologue of the fascist National Legionary State, and a figure of cultural and political importance under dictator Ion Antonescu, he proposed the compulsory sterilization of \"inferior races\", and wrote praises of Nazi racial policy. Indicted by the communist regime in 1951, he spent four years in prison. He made a slow return to favors as a researcher for the Romanian Academy, participating in the resumption of sociological research, as well as experimenting in social psychology and pioneering industrial sociology.\n\nFormally a partisan of Marxism-Leninism after 1956, Herseni was more genuinely committed to national communism. The national communist policies instituted during the late 1960s allowed him to revisit some of his controversial theses about the ancestral roots of Romanian culture. At various intervals, the regime appropriated his radical ideas on ethnicity, including some criticized as racist. Herseni's final works dealt with ethnology, national psychology, the sociology of literature, and sociological theory in general. In the 1970s, he also produced a body of works interpreting Romanian folklore, in which he emphasized the connections with Indo-European and Paleo-Balkan mythology.\n\nHerseni was a native of Transylvania, which, for most of his childhood, was an Austro-Hungarian province. His home village was Iași (Jás), in what was then Brassó County (present-day Brașov County), where his father worked as a notary public. On his paternal side, Herseni originated from nearby Hârseni, which gave the family its name. Born on February 18, 1907, Herseni went to school in Iași (1912–1915) and Făgăraș (1915–1924). These years coincided with World War I and the recognition of Transylvania's union with Romania: Herseni began his secondary education in a Hungarian-speaking regimen, and passed his baccalaureate examination in 1924, as a Romanian national.\n\nFrom 1924, Herseni was a student at the University of Bucharest Faculty of Law, studying under Gusti, Constantin Rădulescu-Motru, Nicolae Iorga, Ovid Densusianu, and Vasile Pârvan. Passionate about Gusti's attempts to restructure Romanian social science around rural sociology and participant observation, Herseni was taken on board for Gusti's field trips to Nereju (1927) and Fundu Moldovei (1928). Another one of Gusti's students, Henri H. Stahl, first met and befriended him at Nereju, and was impressed by the encounter. Herseni, he writes, \"appeared quiet, withdrawn; and yet not lonesome\", \"ready to take on whoever would oppose him, whether friend or rival\". He grasped complex social issues with \"rapidity\", and \"imposed himself as one of the team leaders, obtaining for himself a rank that he would never lose\". Herseni was particularly involved in a project to collect data on \"pastoral sociology\", while Stanciu Stoian observed village schools and Xenia Costa-Foru pioneered studies in the sociology of the family.\n\nHerseni passed his final examination in 1928, having specialized in sociology, psychology, and pedagogy, and presenting a paper on social relations as observed in Fundu Moldovei. This qualified him to teach sociology at the Gheorghe Lazăr National College, where he worked for the following school year. In 1929, he went to Germany for more specialization. He enlisted at the Frederick William (Humboldt) University, where he heard lectures by Werner Sombart, Eduard Spranger, Richard Thurnwald, and Alfred Vierkandt. He published an overview of German sociology in Gusti's \"Arhiva pentru Știință și Reformă Socială\", praising it as a \"lively and freely-moving science\", and as a good model for sociology in \"the less advanced countries\".\nHerseni returned to Bucharest in 1930, did his obligatory service in the Romanian Land Forces, then took part in expeditions, organized by Gusti's Romanian Social Institute (ISR), to Drăguș, Runcu, and Cornova. Drăguș, a center of the ethnographic region known as Țara Oltului, was selected on his insistence, being located in close proximity to his native village. At Cornova, Herseni focused on the social hierarchies and segregated clans of a Bessarabian community. He spent some time researching on his own at a sheepcote in the Făgăraș Mountains, publishing his results in \"Boabe de Grâu\" review. He also began contributing to the Cluj magazine \"Societatea de Mâine\", with articles that inventoried and examined the various kinds of social distance.\n\nIn 1932, Herseni married a university and ISR colleague, Paula Gusty. She was the daughter of Paul Gusty, a famous theater director (the similarity in surnames makes it likely, but not certain, that she was related to Gusti himself). Also that year, having lectured for a while at Sabin Manuilă's School of Social Work, Herseni was appointed by Gusti's an assistant professor in the University of Bucharest department of sociology, ethics and politics. Stahl claims to have been Gusti's first choice, but to have declined the position in order to suit Herseni, who, as a married man, needed a steady flow of income. As a result, Herseni was slightly better off financially than other intellectuals of his generation.\n\nHerseni also followed Stahl's political options: he sympathized with the left-wing cell within the National Peasants' Party, and, in 1933, contributed to center-left reviews such as Zaharia Stancu's \"Azi\" and Stahl's own \"Stânga\". He declared himself a partisan of \"social democracy\" and class collaboration, \"not a Marxist, and not a communist, but nevertheless a man of the left\". An article he published in \"Gând Românesc\" in early 1933 shows him as a deist and Christian existentialist, who argued that the \"Übermensch\" where those Christians who could attain a state of grace. The rest of the populace, Herseni argued, \"are forever non-human.\" Emil Cioran, a philosopher of that generation, described Herseni as \"passionate\" about \"Heidegger's existential philosophy\", with a \"metaphysical sensibility\" that was the mark of \"true Transylvanian intellectuals, as if to compensate for the petty bourgeois spirit of middle-of-the-road intellectuals\".\n\nIn 1933, shortly after the Nazi seizure of power, Herseni visited Berlin, befriending there the anti-Nazi Romanian Petre Pandrea. He took his Ph.D. in 1934, with the dissertation paper \"Realitatea socială\" (\"Social Reality\"), an \"essay in regional onthology\". It earned praise from Gusti, who called Herseni \"one of the most gifted and educated [youths] of today's generation\", one promising to \"enrich Romanian sociology and philosophy with very valuable works.\" Stahl recalls that only Herseni could match his teacher's \"surprisingly vast erudition\" and \"systematization\" of received knowledge; he was also among the more loyal of Gusti's gifted disciples, effectively replacing Petre Andrei, who had spoken out against the ISR. Herseni was an enthusiastic promoter of sociological campaigns, famous as the ISR's \"polygraph\" and as Gusti's most orthodox interpreter. According to Stahl, Herseni intended to both popularize sociology and give it \"philosophical depth\", treating the two tasks as equally important. Taking a neo-Kantian approach to science, Herseni believed that a sound phenomenological inquiry needed to clarify the position and limits of social constructionism, or, as Stahl puts it, to find out \"whether there is a 'social' reality, as distinct from 'natural' and 'spiritual' realities.\"\n\nMoreover, Herseni explored the challenges of sociological epistemology and the methodology of participant observation. He believed that objectivity could only be attained with self-imposed limitations and a laborious, preferably collective and interdisciplinary, research program. Largely \"empirical\", Herseni and Stahl's sociology took distance from the \"transcendentalist\" approach of social scientists such as Mircea Vulcănescu, with whom they first clashed in Fundu Moldovei. By 1938, their highly localized qualitative approach was conceding ground to a quantitative \"zonal\" tactic, which was favored by Gusti and Anton Golopenția.\n\nHerseni adopted a tactic of publishing his work in stages, from raw studies in \"Societatea de Mâine\" to monographic series, and finally to synthetic volumes and brochures. One such work was printed at Gusti's expense, as \"Monografia sociologică; rostul, metoda și problemele ei\" (\"The Sociological Monograph; Its Purpose, Method and Issues\"), then reissued in 1934 as \"Teoria monografiei sociologice\" (\"The Theory of Sociological Monographs\"), to be used as a standard ISR manual. Gusti also backed Herseni's candidature as chair of the University of Cluj sociology department, vacated after Virgil Bărbat's death. The project failed when local academics elected one of their own, Constantin Sudețeanu, and prompted a much-publicized scandal.\n\nUnlike Gusti, Herseni shied away from public speaking, but was one of the ISR speakers at the 12th Congress of the International Institute of Sociology (IIS), held in Brussels in August 1935. He continued to publish his sociological sketches in various magazines and newspapers. In addition to \"Societatea de Mâine\", \"Gând Românesc\", and the ISR's \"Arhiva pentru Știință și Reformă Socială\" and \"Sociologie Românească\", these include \"Familia\", \"Tribuna\", \"Revista Fundațiilor Regale\", \"Independența Economică\", and \"Semne\". Herseni was also a social-science columnist for \"Viața Românească\", added to the editorial team by Mihai Ralea, the left-wing sociologist. Falling more in line with the \"Societatea de Mâine\" group, and influenced by physician Iuliu Moldovan, Herseni became an visible supporter of eugenics and biopolitics, introducing eugenicist language to works he wrote alongside Gusti.\n\nThis interest soon veered into scientific racism and fascism, possibly inspired to Herseni by another eugenicist, Iordache Făcăoaru; like Făcăoaru, Herseni viewed antisemitism as natural and beneficent, eventually affiliating with the radically fascist Iron Guard. In 1944, Herseni described his joining of the Guard as a conscious rebellion against the establishment, prompted by his losing the (supposedly rigged) competition at Cluj. He was, according to cultural historian Lucian Boia, one of the more notorious Iron Guard figures among the university staff, in line with P. P. Panaitescu, Radu Meitani, Vladimir Dumitrescu, and Radu Gyr.\n\nTheir extremist position was conspicuous enough that the more centrist Moldovan felt obliged to distance himself from both his disciples. By 1935, Herseni had also come to sympathize with a fascist dissidence which divided the Gustian movement: although attacked by Ernest Bernea in \"Rânduiala\" magazine, which spoke for this counter-current, he parted ways with Stahl over political stances. At the time, moderate left-wingers such as Stahl and Golopenția, witnessing the internecine conflicts between the Guardist supporters and the radical-left group headed by Gheorghe Vlădescu-Răcoasa, began equating Herseni's politics with an egotistic social climbing. Herseni's Iron Guard affiliation also ruined his relationship with Gusti: he abandoned his editorial office at the ISR's magazine, \"Sociologie Românească\", to be replaced by Golopenția, who was now Gusti's most treasured companion. Herseni also lost his post of assistant professor at the university, moving closer to the regional sociological school of Bukovina, which was headed by Guardist Traian Brăileanu, becoming a regular contributor to Brăileanu's journal \"Însemnări Sociologice\". Together with his wife, who was acting as his secretary and unsigned co-author, he returned to Țara Oltului to study the youth \"posses\" (\"cetele de feciori\").\n\nHis split from the Bucharest school was not definitive: in 1935, together with Gusti, he wrote the sociology textbook for high school seniors. The next year, he participated in the ethnographic expedition to Șanț, alongside Gusti, Stoian, Constantin Brăiloiu, Lena Constante, Jacques Lassaigne, Jozsef Venczel, and Harry Brauner, and contributed to a special homage issue of \"Arhiva\", where he honored Gusti's \"sociological, ethical and political system\". He and Gusti also published, at Cartea Românească, \"Elemente de sociologie cu aplicǎri la cunoașterea țării și a neamului nostru\" (\"Elements of Sociology as Applied to the Study of Our Country and Our Nation\"), a geopolitical tract. It was partly inspired by, and partly opposed to, the theories of Friedrich Ratzel, and was highly skeptical of both geographical and biological determinism.\n\nHerseni was able to outmaneuver his rival Golopenția, who was largely absent from the country during that interval. When he returned, Herseni offered a \"truce\", which included ceding Golopenția some of his classes at university. In 1937, Gusti included Herseni on his team for the IIS Congress, which was held in tandem with Paris Expo. He lectured there on the \"social equilibrium of the Romanian village\". Herseni alternated such work with political writing. Also in 1937, he wrote a propaganda tract for the Iron Guard and the workers' movement, which was confiscated by the authorities upon publication. The text was a polemic with the Communist Party, which Herseni described as having a \"Jewish doctrine\", whereas the Guard genuinely represented workers. As noted by historian Adrian Cioflâncă, Herseni's credo had \"great similarities with communist discourse\", endorsing nationalization, a minimum wage, and social insurance, and a \"work-based hierarchy\" throughout society.\n\nFrom 1938, democracy was suspended in Romania, and King Carol II, an enemy of the Iron Guard, took charge of political and social affairs, creating a mass quasi-fascist party, the National Renaissance Front. Gusti was co-opted into this project, and assigned to lead the Social Service, which, as Stahl notes, was a positive venue for social improvement, but also a potential \"tool\" for Carol's authoritarian project. Despite his Guard affiliation and his approval of the death squads, for which he was denounced by Stancu in \"Azi\", Herseni was spared scrutiny, and probably never detained. Drafting him into the Social Service, Gusti assigned him to teach a specialized course in rural sociology at the Bucharest sociology department, making him a referent and director of research at the ISR. There was also a rapprochement between Gusti and Brăileanu, which Herseni himself mediated. During July 1938, Herseni, Stahl and Vlădescu-Răcoasa where in Paris, attending the IIS 13th Congress, which voted to hold its next session in Bucharest. He also directed rural sociology campaigns in Țara Oltului, publishing his findings as a series of volumes. These were set to mark the IIS congress, which was ultimately canceled by World War II. He published fragments from his history of sociology courses in various installments between 1938 and 1941 as well as a manual on the drawing of sociograms.\n\nThe looming threat of war and Romania's rapprochement with Nazi Germany sent the Gusti school into its final crisis: in summer 1940, Stahl was drafted and sent to work on the \"futile\" task of building up defenses; Herseni helped him obtain his Ph.D., intervening with the university leadership. This was just before the downfall of the National Renaissance Front, brought on by the Second Vienna Award, which saw Romania ceding Northern Transylvania to Hungary. In the political chaos that followed, Gusti became a political suspect, and Carol ordered his own Social Service to be shut down by \"Siguranța\" policemen. The Prime Minister of the time, Constantin Argetoianu, later referred to the Service as a \"bad memory\".\n\nOn September 6, 1940, the Iron Guard took power in Romania, proclaiming the National Legionary State, with General Ion Antonescu as the \"Conducător\". Herseni, emerging as a \"major propagandist\" and \"prominent legionary ideologue\", saluted the takeover in his articles for the Guardist paper \"Cuvântul\". In December 1940, he paid homage to the Legionary Commandant, Horia Sima, without whom \"the Movement would become an amorphous mass\". In order to succeed, Sima was to be obeyed \"with unbounded devotion.\" Herseni also contributed to the personality cult surrounding Sima's assassinated predecessor, Captain Corneliu Zelea Codreanu, calling him a \"national prophet\" of the \"imperial ways\", for whose arrival \"our people have been praying for two thousand years\". Codreanu's \"spirit\", Herseni claimed, \"leads the nation to victory.\" He argued that Codreanu's sacrifice guaranteed \"the redemption of the Romanians\", but warned that \"hundreds and thousands of years have prepared his birth, other hundreds and thousands of years will be necessary for the accomplishment of his commandments\". Despite his radical metaphors, Herseni's ideological texts interpreted Codreanu's message to the people and the peasantry as self-help guidelines rather than a revolutionary agenda of land reform.\n\n\"Cuvântul\" also hosted Herseni's articles on the merger of eugenics and racism, for \"the betterment of the human race\". He declared that Romanians were, at core, part of the \"Nordic race\", which accounted for \"the most noble Romanian cultural productions\", but that \"the race lost its purity\". Herseni suggested a \"racial purification\", and a formal policy of racial segregation as \"a question of life and death\". Crediting \"the genius of Adolf Hitler\" as in inspiration, he proposed the compulsory sterilization of \"inferior races\", specifically the Jews, Romanies and Greeks, \"as a tribute to beauty, to morality, and in general to perfection.\" \"The decline of the Romanian people\", Herseni claimed, \"owes itself to the infiltration in our ethnic group of inferior racial elements interbreeding with the blood of [our] ancestors\".\n\nHistorian Radu Ioanid sees these musings as samples of \"a typically fascist mentality\", in which \"the incitement to crime clothes itself in fanciful language.\" According to scholar Maria Bucur, the racial legislation introduced at the time suggests \"some links\" to Herseni and Făcăoaru's \"aggressively restrictive positions\"; Făcăoaru is known to have had a more direct involvement in this program. Scholar M. Benjamin Thorne also notes that, among Iron Guard figures, Herseni and Liviu Stan stood out for their Romaphobia; their identification of the Romanies as racial enemies had no precedent in Guardist discourse.\n\nHerseni was chosen for high office in the new bureaucracy, serving as Secretary General of a combined Ministry of Education and Culture, seconding Minister Brăileanu. He countersigned an order by Antonescu and Brăileanu for the demotion and arrest of Petre Andrei, the previous Minister of Education, who was thus shamed into committing suicide. Herseni soon found himself drawn into the conflict between Sima and Antonescu, over the appointment of Guard loyalists at the \"Accademia di Romania\" (Antonescu wanted the old regime figures to be kept in place).\n\nBy the close of 1940, Herseni and Făcăoaru were co-opted by Rector Panaitescu on the university review commission, whose mission was to purge academia of undesirables in general, and in particular of former National Renaissance Front dignitaries. Herseni was thus a participant in the decisions to expel or demote a number of scholars: Ralea, historian Constantin C. Giurescu, philologist George Călinescu, and classicist Alexandru Rosetti. The same commission also looked into cases of low-ranking staff members, suspect for being Jewish or associating with Jews: it expelled George Emil Palade for his \"links with the Jews\" and \"immoral behavior\", and nearly demoted Tudor Vianu, on grounds that \"kikes cannot educate the Romanian youth\". Credited with having intervened in Vianu's favor, Herseni recused himself from the case against Gusti, noting that he owed him his career in academia.\n\nIn January 1941, the Guard and Antonescu went to war with each other, in what was termed the \"Legionary Rebellion\"; Antonescu emerged victorious. Herseni, perceived as a \"moderate\" or \"decent\" Guardist, was able to escape the subsequent purge, and made his peace with the new military regime. Reportedly, he resumed his contacts with Ralea, assuring him that Sima, by then disgraced and in exile, had tried to curb his own party's violence. In May of that year, \"Revista de Studii Sociologice și Muncitorești\" hosted Herseni's homage piece to the economist Virgil Madgearu, who had been murdered by the Guard a year before. A year later, \"Sociologie Românească\" published Herseni's posthumous tribute to Andrei, referring to his \"great stature\" and \"untimely death\".\n\nHe resumed his scientific contribution with a treatise on the sociology of pastoralism (\"Tratat de sociologie pastorală\"), sponsored by the Romanian Academy, which was in some part a polemical study of folkloristics. Herseni condemned folklorists for working \"at random\", and asserted that ethnography in general needed to submit itself to the sociological method. He also contributed a chapter on Romanian sociology, including a sketch on himself, to a history of Romanian philosophy, put out in 1941 by Nicolae Bagdasar. He justified his own inclusion by noting that \"our [Herseni's] sociological activity has been recorded, through not always praised, by the country's greatest sociologists and a few foreign ones\". Herseni also sketched there the results of his epistemological inquiries: society was an objective inner reality, \"the sense of an \"us\"\", leading to the emergence of a \"social community\" that was therefore not biological, but spiritual. On this basis, Herseni read society as both a \"spiritually objective\" reality and a structural-functional one, and thus as an autonomous object of science.\n\nSince June 1941, Romania had joined Nazi Germany in its invasion of the Soviet Union. From January 1942, Herseni was behind the lines on the Eastern Front, in the newly occupied Transnistria Governorate. Reportedly, his mission was to set up schools for the Romanian communities. He was also mandated by Governor Gheorghe Alexianu to carry out a large ethnographic project, recording Romanian Transnistrian customs. The endeavor, which also involved Golopenția and Nichita Smochină, resulted in ethnographic collections by Gheorghe Pavelescu and C. A. Ionescu, with prefaces by Herseni himself. Resigning from the ISR that same year, Herseni moved to Sibiu to teach \"national sociology\" at the University of Cluj. The latter had been evacuated from its namesake city, in Northern Transylvania. As a eugenicist, Herseni also presided over a department of \"sanitary sociology\" at Sibiu's Hygiene and Public Health Institute. He was also interested in what he termed \"administrative sociology\". The official journal of Internal Affairs carried his topical essay, in which Herseni also called for a purely Romanian style of governance.\n\nIn early 1944, during the Soviet offensive in Transnistria, Herseni was spotted in Berezovca County, on an official mission to destroy records of the mass killings of Jews. After the start of Soviet occupation, his ethnographic research immediately became taboo: the study he wrote with Ionescu was printed at Sibiu in December 1944, but simply as a collection of generic \"colinde\". All detail permitting localization in Transnistria was stricken out by the censors.\n\nExpelled from his Cluj University chair in July 1945, Herseni managed to publish one more brochure, with Editura Clujana of Bucharest: \"Originile sociologiei\" (\"The Origins of Sociology\"). Arrested in 1951, he was tried for his role in the National Legionary administration, with Vianu showing up to defend him as a character witness. Sentenced to four years in prison, he did time in Jilava and Aiud, before being released in 1956. He received an interdiction to publish and was entirely marginalized in society, turning to ghostwriting for more politically suitable scholars.\n\nHis old political enemy, Ralea, decided to include Herseni on his research team at the Romanian Academy's new Psychology Institute from 1956. He was also made its regional director, and had a similar office at the Anthropological Center (both 1958). Herseni was undergoing a slow rehabilitation, possibly facilitated by Communist Party activist Miron Constantinescu. A former Gustian, turned Marxist-Leninist doctrinaire, Constantinescu had assigned himself the task of selectively reconsidering \"reactionary\" sociology. Constantinescu maintained contacts with Herseni, Stahl, Vlădescu-Răcoasa and Teodor Bugnariu, and prepared himself for the revival of the sociological school, with inputs from Marxist sociology.\n\nOrganizing research trips in Hunedoara Region, at Clopotiva, Herseni published essays on family sociology and genealogy in a 1958 collection edited by Ștefan Milcu. He produced a thesis according to which Romanians of that area were \"always the overwhelming majority\", having effortlessly Romanianized their Hungarian neighbors since the 1600s. As noted in 2014 by ethnologist Marin Constantin, Herseni's approach to the topic evidenced a throwback to the Gusti sociological narrative, being Romanian-centered and \"self-referential\". Historian of medicine Marius Turda writes that Romanian communist social science was folding back on racial science, a \"national biology involving notions of racial differentiation, cycles of growth and decay, genetic genealogies, the interconnectedness of nurture and nature\". The changing political climate allowed anthropologists \"to reposition autochthonous ideas within their discipline\"; Herseni, \"an important Legionary sociologist\", \"provides an exemplary case of post-war re-adaptation, professionally and theoretically.\" Bucur also argues that Herseni stands as a prime example of an \"openly racist\" eugenicist whom the communist regime was able to recover for its own propaganda purposes.\n\nTurda traces the links between the fascist ideologist and the communist anthropologist: \"Although the general topic Herseni reflected on was genetic genealogies, his main argument focused on the importance of ethnic anthropology in connecting forms of the nation's micro and macro physical development over time.\" The same continuity is noted by historians Alexandru Sonoc and Alexandru Grișcan, who view Herseni's description of the Romanian ethnos as a \"somatic type\" as \"doubtlessly racist\". Herseni thus intended to return to his 1940 research and find a way to republish its early results (the papers were by then stored at the Brukenthal National Museum in Sibiu). In 1961, he contributed to Milcu's monograph on the rural society of Bătrâna, focusing on its peculiar inheritance and elderly care practices. His work in the field also resulted in a historical anthropology essay, which rediscovered the pioneering work of Pavel Vasici-Ungureanu.\n\nRalea, who had been fully integrated among the post-war Marxists, also co-opted Herseni for projects in social psychology. Reportedly, Ralea excused Herseni by arguing that he had only joined the Guard in hopes of being rewarded with tenure. At the time, the mainline communists put on hold their project to uproot sociology as a bourgeois science: \"a significant thaw occurred\". Together, Ralea and Herseni published a 1962 tract, \"Sociologia succesului\" (\"The Sociology of Success\"), for which Herseni used the pseudonym \"Traian Hariton\". This praise of collectivism and economic incentives under the socialist mode of production was reviewed with skepticism by the Romanian exile psychologist Edgar Krau, who notes that Ralea and \"Hariton\" had failed to even mention \"the all-pervading [communist] party tuition\" as a possible disturbance of data. Locally, the book was famous for including a reference to sociology in its very title, the first such work to be allowed under communism; this was one of several \"surprising signs of political openness and of sociology's acceptance.\" Ralea and Herseni also heralded a departure from the more intransigent anti-American propaganda of the 1950s, reintegrating some positive references to American sociology.\n\nLike Ralea and Stahl, Herseni became a noted supporter of the national communist, anti-Soviet, party line, promoted officially by the old party leadership from 1964, and subsequently taken up by the new General Secretary, Nicolae Ceaușescu. As Bucur notes, Herseni was now in a position where he himself generated \"the new Marxist-Leninist normative discourse\". While gaining leverage with Ralea, Herseni had lost backing from Constantinescu, who perceived him as a personal rival and, possibly, as a superior thinker, and worked to keep him away from sociological research. Herseni worked instead with Bugnariu, with whom he co-authored an essay on the history of Gustian sociology, which appeared in \"Contemporanul\" in October 1964.\n\nAfter 1965, when he entered a new period of prolific writing, Herseni sought to accumulate direct knowledge in the field of industrial sociology, reviving and adapting Gusti's (and his own) interwar methodology: a monographic \"problem-centered\" technique, and a focus on interdisciplinarity. As noted by historian Valentin Săndulescu, he thus wanted to show himself useful to a \"potentially valuable\" project, that of organizing socialist enterprises. Herseni also involved himself in debates about the future of sociology, defending the science against criticism, and arguing that sociologists could answer specific problems that could not be addressed by statisticians or economists. To underscore his loyalty to the regime, by 1966 he was also putting out articles in \"Glasul Patriei\", a propaganda review for the Romanian diaspora. In 1968, he was allowed to travel abroad, to Paris. There, he reunited with Emil Cioran, but failed to meet with Eugène Ionesco, as transport had been disrupted by strikes and student riots.\n\nAt the institute, Herseni compiled the life histories of 550 industry workers, documenting their departure from an \"axial\" family and their contact with modernity. Herseni's work in social psychology resulted in a definitive treatise, \"Psihologie socială\", co-authored with Ralea and published in 1966, shortly after Ralea's death. In 1967, \"Contemporanul\" hosted Herseni's essay about the old regime politician Spiru Haret, highlighting his contribution to progressive education and his conflict with \"the ruling classes\". He returned to \"Familia\" as a columnist and sociological analyst, chronicling books by Pierre Francastel, Herbert Read, Jean Piaget, Talcott Parsons, and T. R. Fyvel, as well as reintroducing his public to works by Gusti, Virgil Bărbat, Alexandru Claudian, and Ștefan Zeletin.\n\nHe later set himself a study case of industrialization in Boldești-Scăeni, where, as Stahl recounts, \"a drilling rig had been set up, radically transforming the local, rural, social landscape, spurring modernizing social processes\". The result was a work of \"concrete social psychology\", the 1969 \"Industrializare și urbanizare\", which, according to sociologist Irina Tomescu-Dubrow, samples the \"valuable work\" produced in urban sociology under communism. Additionally, the team documented decades of migration patterns, using a census, a set of questionnaires, and tools borrowed from historical demography. Also in 1969, Herseni issued \"Psihosociologia organizării întreprinderilor industriale\" (\"The Psycho-sociology of Organization in Industrial Units\"), at Editura Academiei, and \"Laboratorul uzinal de psihologie, sociologie și pedagogie\" (\"The Industrial Laboratory of Psychology, Sociology and Pedagogy\"), at Editura Științifică.\n\nAlso in 1969, the same company issued Herseni's companion to sociological theory, \"Prolegomene la teoria sociologică\". Reviewing the work for \"Social Research\", Jiří Kolaja sensed \"a very skillful adaptation of certain Marxist lines of thought though [Herseni] appears not to be a Marxist.\" As noted by Kolaja, \"Prolegomene\" attempted to mediate between individualist, structuralist, and phenomenological sociology. In 1970, Herseni spoke about his sociological and political convictions in an interview with \"Tribuna\". He defined himself as a committed communist, and made predictions about the communist future: \"in communism, people will be less wicked than we are at present, because they shall have fewer rationales for being wicked.\" The interview was covered for Radio Free Europe by Monica Lovinescu, the anticommunist literary critic. She noted that Herseni, with his \"degraded mystical\" terminology, no longer distinguished between \"sociology\" and \"ideology\". However, according to scholar Daniel Chirot, who visited Romania during that interval, Herseni confessed to him in private: \nI used to write things praising 'The Captain' and now I write pretty much the same thing, but praising Ceaușescu. I'm not a Marxist, you understand, but I have to admit that I like what he's doing.\n\nDuring the late 1960s and early 1970s, Herseni diversified his contribution, with a chapter in the pastoralist sociology treatise of Franz Ronneberger and Gerhardt Teich (1971) and an essay introducing the work of psychologist Nicolae Vaschide (1975). Other tracts were focused on defining and applying theories from the sociology of literature to a Romanian context. At Editura Univers, he published \"Sociologia literaturii. Cîteva puncte de reper\" (\"Literary Sociology. A Few Pointers\", 1973), and \"Literatură și civilizație\" (\"Literature and Civilization\", 1976). Despite being infused with concepts borrowed from Erich Auerbach, his contribution focused mainly on the relationship between societies and the literature they produced, and as such viewed itself as fundamentally different from comparative literature. As such, Herseni made explicit references to \"national psychology\", linguistic determinism, and national \"rhythms\" of creativity, referencing the anthropological theories of Wilhelm Wundt, Franz Boas, George Murdock, and Edward Sapir. He argued that structuralism was a relevant paradigm for the study of culture, but only if subsumed to \"national specificity\". Overall, Herseni argued that art and literature were collective in nature, originating from \"imitation\" (or \"mimesis\") rather than sublimation. Inspired by Lucien Lévy-Bruhl, Constantin Noica, Mircea Eliade, Ruth Benedict, and James George Frazer, Herseni described language and early poetry as interconnected with folk religion, and especially with magic. The works also contained methodological proposals for the research of reading habits, with a typology borrowed from André Maurois.\n\nAs noted in 2008 by scholar Eugen Negrici, such writings are also intertwined with the official dogmas of national communism: \"still haunted by his old fears, [Herseni] tried to look his best in front of the communist authorities, providing his sociological perspective—one saturated with Marxist cliches—on Romanian literature\". By contrast, sociologist Florența Stăvărache argues that Herseni introduced \"fissures\" in official dogma with his \"critical note on how literary doctrines and ideologies were all dealt with through the lens of 'Marxism-Leninism'.\" Also according to Stăvărache, Herseni's musings about the \"social responsibility of writers\" and the possibility of their \"constrained political engagement\" were \"evidently alluding to his contemporaries\". She criticizes Herseni's abundant use of \"erudite\" referencing, noting that it made the work outdated: working from inside a \"captive society\", Herseni had had access to Lévy-Bruhl, but not to his critics.\n\nHerseni took his pension from the Psychology Institute in 1973, but carried on with his work in sociology and anthropology. His studies of industrial sociology were bound together as \"Psihologia colectivelor de muncă\" (\"The Psychology of Working Collectives\", Editura Academiei, 1973) and an eponymous textbook: \"Sociologia industrială\" (Editura Didactică și Pedagogică, 1974). According to Stahl, this was both a \"world-level work\" and a monograph of \"our country's real issues\", \"the result of direct experiences\". Herseni's original drafts were \"apolitical\", treating industrial relations as indistinct from socialist to capitalist countries, and were revised by censors to comply with the party line. Also in 1974, Herseni contributed to an Editura Științifică collection on industrial-sociological laboratories, with a study of social engineering techniques. The following year, returning to his native region, he contributed to a monograph on the Făgăraș Chemical Plant.\n\nDuring the early 1970s, in essays he wrote for Constantinescu's \"Sociologia Militans\" archive, Herseni explained his intention of transcending rural sociology, applying its lessons to understanding (or generating) social actions in the national sphere, and, beyond, in geopolitics. In 1976, he completed his \"paleoethnographic\" study about the \"posses\" of Țara Oltului, published by Editura Dacia as \"Forme străvechi de cultură poporană românească\" (\"Ancient Forms of Romanian Folk Culture\"). As noted by Stahl, it evidenced \"an essential change in his preoccupations\", bringing with it Herseni's formal inclusion in the community of Romanian folklorists. The book series also signified a break with the Gustian tradition of strict sociology, turning to cultural anthropology, which the young Herseni had criticized repeatedly. Commenting on this conversion, Stahl concluded that Herseni remained \"an enigma\".\n\n\"Forme străvechi\" claimed to show that the posses were \"a vestige of ancient Geto-Dacian beliefs and practices, which still preserve some pre-Indo-European elements.\" Taking Romanian onomastics as his point of departure, Herseni argued that Romanians conserved a belief in the \"Tellus Mater\" and reincarnation within the family. Part of the work recorded the localization of Christmas, including the \"dilution\" of an older pagan holiday, \"Korochun\". He also reviewed and categorized 400 \"colinde\" of Țara Oltului, noting that 88 of them had Christian \"non-canonical\" content, and another 124 where entirely non- or pre-Christian. Some of Herseni's views on the matter remain particularly controversial. According to Negrici, the book shows Herseni as a convert to Protochronism, the communist doctrine (blended with \"the undigested residues of the interwar right\") which supposed Romanian cultural superiority and ancient pedigree. Herseni \"endorses the thesis that Romanian civilization, albeit rural and oral, is by no means inferior to the literate civilizations that were cultivated in citadels and towns.\"\n\nHerseni died in 1980. His last published works include a French-language essay on the Dacian Draco, in which he argued that dragons or \"zmei\" were among the \"primordial beings\" of local mythology. According to Paula Herseni, his lifetime output comprised 541 works of social science, of which 29 were volumes (although, Stahl cautions, their content often overlapped); Achim Mihu, who republished some of Herseni's works, counts 543. One of his final works was the historical study \"Cultura psihologică românească\" (\"Romanian Psychological Culture\"), which sought to establish a link between an ancient national psychology and the development of psychology as a modern science. Additionally, Herseni contributed a chapter in Romulus Vulcănescu's introduction to ethnology, a specialized field which Herseni wanted to delimit from both anthropology and sociology as \"the science of folk phenomena\". He also left \"Teoria generală a vieții sociale omenești\" (\"The General Theory of Human Social Life\"), a manuscript comprising 1,276 pages, read by Stahl as a final synthesis \"of his work in the realm of sociology\". Its mission statement described a merger of Gustian and Marxist ideas, around the \"objective laws of social development\".\n\nAlso in 1980, Herseni's essay on the \"Romanian race\" saw print as \"Cultura psihologică românească\" (\"Romanian Psychological Culture\"); \"Teoria generală\" was also eventually published in 1982. Herseni was more fully recovered and discussed after the Romanian Revolution of 1989, which lifted the ban placed by communism over most of his work. Anthropologist Zoltán Rostás contacted various of Herseni's colleagues, including Paula Gusty-Herseni, publishing his interviews with them in various volumes, including the 2003 \"Sala luminoasă\" (\"A Lit Room\"). She died aged 98. More controversially, Herseni's work was also reclaimed by neo-fascist publications which appeared throughout the 1990s.\n\nThe Hersenis had one daughter, Ioana, a psychologist at the Oil & Gas University. In 2007, she and Marian Diaconu issued his sociological overview, \"Istoria sociologiei românești\" (\"History of Romanian Sociology\"). Herseni's work in Transnistria was only revisited in 1994, when C. A. Ionescu's book was printed, in its complete form, in Chișinău, Moldova. On Herseni's centenary in 2007, the Chișinău Academy of Economic Studies hosted a symposium in his honor.\n"}
{"id": "207848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207848", "title": "Tutelary deity", "text": "Tutelary deity\n\nA tutelary (also tutelar) is a deity or spirit who is a guardian, patron, or protector of a particular place, geographic feature, person, lineage, nation, culture, or occupation. The etymology of \"tutelary\" expresses the concept of safety, and thus of guardianship.\n\nIn late late Greek and Roman religion, one type of tutelary deity, the \"genius\", functions as the personal deity or \"daimon\" of an individual from birth to death. Another form of personal tutelary spirit is the familiar spirit of European folklore.\n\n\nSocrates spoke of hearing the voice of his personal spirit or \"daimonion\":\nThe Greeks also thought deities guarded specific places: For instance, Athena was the patron goddess of the city of Athens.\n\nTutelary deities who guard and preserve a place or a person are fundamental to ancient Roman religion. The tutelary deity of a man was his Genius, or that of a woman her Juno. In the Imperial era, the Genius of the Emperor was a focus of Imperial cult. An emperor might also adopt a major deity as his personal patron or tutelary, as Augustus did Apollo. Precedents for claiming the personal protection of a deity were established in the Republican era, when for instance the Roman dictator Sulla advertised the goddess Victory as his tutelary by holding public games \"(ludi)\" in her honor.\n\nEach town or city had one or more tutelary deities, whose protection was considered particularly vital in time of war and siege. Rome itself was protected by a goddess whose name was to be kept ritually secret on pain of death (for a supposed case, see Quintus Valerius Soranus). The Capitoline Triad of Juno, Jupiter, and Minerva were also tutelaries of Rome.\n\nThe Italic towns had their own tutelary deities. Juno often had this function, as at the Latin town of Lanuvium and the Etruscan city of Veii, and was often housed in an especially grand temple on the \"arx\" (citadel) or other prominent or central location. The tutelary deity of Praeneste was Fortuna, whose oracle was renowned.\n\nThe Roman ritual of \"evocatio\" was premised on the belief that a town could be made vulnerable to military defeat if the power of its tutelary deity were diverted outside the city, perhaps by the offer of superior cult at Rome. The depiction of some goddesses such as the \"Magna Mater\" (Great Mother, or Cybele) as \"tower-crowned\" represents their capacity to preserve the city.\n\nA town in the provinces might adopt a deity from within the Roman religious sphere to serve as its guardian, or syncretize its own tutelary with such; for instance, a community within the \"civitas\" of the Remi in Gaul adopted Apollo as its tutelary, and at the capital of the Remi (present-day Rheims), the tutelary was Mars Camulus,\nTutelary deities were also attached to sites of a much smaller scale, such as storerooms, crossroads, and granaries. Each Roman home had a set of protective deities: the Lar or Lares of the household or \"familia\", whose shrine was a \"lararium\"; the Penates who guarded the storeroom \"(penus)\" of the innermost part of the house; Vesta, whose sacred site in each house was the hearth; and the Genius of the \"paterfamilias\", the head of household. The poet Martial lists the tutelary deities who watch over various aspects of his farm. The architecture of a granary \"(horreum)\" featured niches for images of the tutelary deities, who might include the \"genius loci\" or guardian spirit of the site, Hercules, Silvanus, Fortuna Conservatrix (\"Fortuna the Preserver\") and in the Greek East Aphrodite and Agathe Tyche.\n\nThe \"Lares Compitales\" were the tutelary gods of a neighborhood \"(vicus)\", each of which had a \"compitum\" (shrine) devoted to these. During the Republic, the cult of local or neighborhood tutelaries sometimes became rallying points for political and social unrest.\n\nSome tutelary deities are known to exist in Slavic Europe, a more prominent example being that of Leshy.\n\n"}
{"id": "52368113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52368113", "title": "Voyant Tools", "text": "Voyant Tools\n\nVoyant Tools is an open-source, web-based application for performing text analysis. It supports scholarly reading and interpretation of texts or corpus, particularly by scholars in the digital humanities, but also by students and the general public. It can be used to analyze online texts or ones uploaded by users. Voyant has a large, international user base: in October 2016 alone, Voyant's main server had 81,686 page views originating from 156 countries, invoking the tool 1,173,252 times.\n\nVoyant \"was conceived to enhance reading through lightweight text analytics such as word frequency lists, frequency distribution plots, and KWIC displays.\" Its interface is composed of panels which perform these varied analytical tasks. These panels can also be embedded in external web texts (e.g. a web article could include a Voyant panel that creates a word cloud from it). The book \"Hermeneutica: Computer-Assisted Interpretation in the Humanities\" demonstrates different approaches to text analysis using Voyant.\n\nVoyant Tools was developed by Stéfan Sinclair (McGill) and Geoffrey Rockwell (University of Alberta) and continues to be updated. It developed out of earlier text analysis tools including HyperPo, Taporware, and TACT. Contributors have included Andrew MacDonald, Cyril Briquet, Lisa Goddard,and Mark Turcato.\n\nResearchers have used Voyant Tools to analyze texts in a wide range of contexts including literature, language teaching, healthcare, and system architecture. Describing approaches to studying the internet using web scraping, Black has noted that \"the Voyant Tools project is an excellent source to learn about the kinds of data that humanists can extract from Internet sources because it already supports text extraction from webpages.\"\n\nA number of international digital humanities projects are running Voyant on their own servers. These include the French Huma-Num project, the Italian CNR ILC, and the German DARIAH-DE project.\n\n"}
