{"id": "2034512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2034512", "title": "Alfred J. Eggers", "text": "Alfred J. Eggers\n\nAlfred J. Eggers, Jr. (June 24, 1922 – September 22, 2006) was NASA's Assistant Administrator for Policy and devoted efforts to determine the influence of aviation technology in world peace and lectured widely.\n\nEggers specialized in hypersonic and spaceflight research including the development of new wind tunnel and ballistic range facilities. He went to work for the NACA at Ames Aeronautical Laboratory in 1944 after completing the V-12 Navy College Training Program.\n\nIn 1954, he became Division Chief of the Vehicle Environment Division, which was composed of a physics branch, an entry simulation branch, a structural dynamics branch, the 3.5 foot hypersonic wind tunnel branch and the hypervelocity ballistic range branch. In 1958, Eggers headed up the Manned Satellite Team, which was to design a practical system for a satellite while recommending a suitable research program. This ultimately lead to Ames developing and managing the Pioneer program of planetary exploration probes. Although Eggers is most famous for his pioneering work on atmospheric reentry with a blunt body, arguably his greatest achievement was his work on supersonic interference lift. This work lead directly to the XB-70 Valkyrie supersonic bomber.\n\nIn May 1964, Eggers was appointed Deputy Associate Administrator for Advanced Research and Technology. He became Assistant Administrator for Policy in January 1968, and served until March 1971. From 1969 to 1970, Eggers was a visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nFollowing his career at NASA, Eggers took a position as Assistant Director for Research Applications at the National Science Foundation.\n\nHis assistant, C. A. \"Sy\" Syvertson became Director of NASA Ames Research Center during probably its most productive years. A close friend of both was the legendary aerodynamicist, R. T. Jones.\n\n"}
{"id": "45533914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45533914", "title": "André Haddad", "text": "André Haddad\n\nAndré Haddad, BS (20 September 1930 in Roum, Lebanon – 13 December 2017) was an Archbishop of the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Zahle and Forzol.\n\nOn June 13, 1954 Andre Haddad was ordained to the priesthood and appointed Chaplain of the Melkite Basilians of the Most Holy Redeemer. He was appointed and consecrated on 14 June 1983 as Archbishop of Zahle and Furzol succeeding Augustin Farah. The Patriarch of Antioch Maximos V Hakim ordained him bishop on August 7, 1983 and his co-consecrators were the archbishops Nicolas Hajj, SDS, of Banyas and Saba Youakim, BS, of Petra and Philadelphia. Archbishop Andre Haddad assisted as co-consecrator of the following bishops:\n\n\nIn October 2010 he was a participant in the Special Assembly of the Synod of Bishops in the Middle East. On 24 June 2010 Haddad submitted his resignation due to age.\n\nHe died on 13 December 2017.\n\nCharges of corruption and mismanagement of the government in Lebanon caused Haddad excitement in 2002. He extended his allegation that denounced the waste of public money and accused government officials of using money for personal reasons and private greed.\n\n"}
{"id": "16374535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16374535", "title": "Antal Nagy (footballer, born 1944)", "text": "Antal Nagy (footballer, born 1944)\n\nAntal Nagy (born 16 May 1944 in Budapest) is a retired Hungarian footballer who played for Hungary at the 1966 FIFA World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "45395676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45395676", "title": "Avon Hudson", "text": "Avon Hudson\n\nAvon Hudson (born 1939) is a South Australian RAAF ex-serviceman, nuclear weapons testing whistle-blower and co-author of the 2005 book \"Beyond Belief\" which he wrote with academic and historian, Roger Cross.\n\nHudson was assigned to work at the Maralinga testing range during the period of minor trials which included the explosive scattering of plutonium. At risk of incarceration for exposing Commonwealth secrets, Hudson disclosed undertakings of the British nuclear weapons testing period in South Australia (1956-1963) making multiple appearances in mainstream media from the 1970s through 2010s. His disclosures delayed the return of the testing range to their traditional custodians, the Anangu people due to the inadequacy of clean-up measures, persistent contamination and associated health risks of ionizing radiation. He gave testimony to the Royal Commission into British nuclear testing in Australia in 1984 and 1985 and has continued to work as a spokesperson for nuclear veterans in South Australia since that time. Avon is an anti-nuclear activist and educator committed to explaining radiological hazards in accessible English- knowledge he has acquired over many decades of private study. After six years with the RAAF, Hudson left the armed services and instead worked on the civil space program in Australia. Avon Hudson has also served as an elected member of the Wakefield Regional Council for many years. During his time as a councilor, Hudson formally established the region, which includes his hometown of Balaklava, as a \"nuclear free zone\".\n\nAvon Hudson's life is the subject of a public exhibition which opened on February 13, 2015, as part of the Adelaide Fringe Festival in Balaklava, South Australia. The exhibition \"Portrait of a Whistle-blower\" presents artifacts and images which trace his journey from childhood through his RAAF service and his subsequent life as a nuclear whistle-blower. The exhibition is curated by photo-media artist Jessie Boylan, who also contributed images to the exhibition including reproductions of artifacts and portraiture of Hudson. The artifacts on display include photographs from Hudson's own collection, a piece of vitrified earth from Maralinga, a red umbrella Hudson once used to evade an undercover government agent who was following him, and two cathode-ray tube televisions displaying TV news broadcasts and documentary film footage.\n\nThe exhibition was launched as part of an expanded event called \"10 Minutes to Midnight\", presented by Alphaville and Nuclear Futures. The event combined history, art and discussion and was supported by the Australia Council for the Arts and Arts SA. It featured three stages, including a projected video installation which created an impression of the nuclear test program and its effects and an open discussion with Boylan and Hudson. The event attracted a public audience which included nuclear veterans and their relatives who were able to share their experiences and ask questions. Additional contributing artists included Teresa Crea, Linda Dement, John Romeril, Nic Mollison and Luke Harrald.\n\n"}
{"id": "29338876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29338876", "title": "Bernard Baran", "text": "Bernard Baran\n\nBernard F. Baran Jr. (May 25, 1965 – September 1, 2014) was wrongfully convicted in the day care sex abuse hysteria of the 1980s and 1990s that was spawned by the McMartin preschool trial. Unlike other day care cases, the Baran case garnered little national press coverage. The Baran case spanned almost 25 years from his arrest in October 1984 until all charges were dropped in June 2009. Baran maintained his innocence throughout his case, making him ineligible for parole. Baran was accused, tried and convicted within a three-month period and sentenced to three life sentences in January 1985. In 2009, the Massachusetts Appeals Court vacated the convictions, deeming the case \"notorious,\" and citing the behavior of the original prosecutor as \"troubling.\" Along with its importance as the first successful conviction, the Baran case is notable amongst the day-care cases for the level of homophobia present in the court record of the prosecution. The Baran case is the subject of the 2010 documentary film \"Freeing Bernie Baran\".\n\nBernard Baran took a job as a teacher's aide in 1983 at the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) in his hometown of Pittsfield, the county seat of Berkshire County in Western Massachusetts. Shortly before his employment, social workers placed a four-year-old boy at ECDC due to the child's home environment. Eventually the child ended up in the classroom where Baran worked. In September 1984 the Fells Acres Day Care Center preschool case broke and made news across Massachusetts. Shortly thereafter, the parents of the boy complained to the board of directors of ECDC that they \"didn't want no homo\" working with their child. The Board of Directors held a meeting on September 12, 1984, to specifically discuss Baran's homosexuality and the possibility of terminating his employment because of it. Baran retained his job after being questioned about his homosexuality by his superiors.\n\nOn October 1, 1984, the parents of the boy in question removed him from ECDC in protest of Baran's continued employment. The parents were drug addicts and police informants. On October 5, 1984, they called their connection at the Pittsfield police department drug control unit. They alleged that Bernard Baran molested their son at ECDC that day, three days after they had removed the child from the day care. The following day the police began an investigation at ECDC and validated this claim of sexual abuse.\n\nWord of the first allegation broke shortly after the investigation began. Within days the day care center had sponsored a puppet show to facilitate other children's ability to talk about abuse. The day care also notified all the parents that a child at the day care had gonorrhea. After multiple children were interviewed with anatomically correct dolls at both of ECDC's locations, one where Baran worked and one where he did not, Baran was indicted on 3 counts of rape and 5 counts of indecent assault on November 5, 1984.\n\nBaran's case went from arrest to trial in 105 days, convening in court on January 23, 1985, receiving significant local media attention. The court room was closed to the public and the press during the children's testimony without any hearing into the necessity for closing the court, which Baran claimed violated his 6th Amendment right to a public trial. Baran was positioned in the court room so that he could not even hear the testimony of the children. On January 30, 1985, he received three life sentences for three counts of rape of a child and five counts of indecent assault and battery. His conviction held up on appeal in 1986. The law firm that handled his appeal eventually destroyed his defense case file.\n\nIn 1999 a new legal team took Baran's case. In a series of hearings from 1999 to 2005, the original defense file was recreated from the contents of the civil suits filed against ECDC after the Baran conviction. The motion for a new trial contained over 300 flawed items in the original trial, including prosecutorial misconduct, ineffective assistance of counsel, and the use of suggestive interviewing techniques with the children. The motion rested in June 2005.\n\nBaran was granted a new trial in 2006. The Berkshire County District Attorney's office appealed the granting of a new trial in 2008. In 2009 the Massachusetts Appeals Court affirmed the 2006 ruling and set aside the 1984 convictions.\n\nIn 2010, Baran's lawyers began the process of suing multiple parties in civil court on his behalf. Even though a $400,000.00 settlement was reached in 2010 the state has denied liability and thus has yet to expunge his record.\n\nBaran died suddenly on September 1, 2014, at his home in Fitchburg, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30863205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863205", "title": "Bill H. Gross", "text": "Bill H. Gross\n\nWilliam Hunt Gross (born April 13, 1944) is an American investor, fund manager, and philanthropist. He co-founded Pacific Investment Management Co, the largest global fixed income investment company, and ran their $270 billion Total Return Fund (PTTRX), before leaving to join Janus Capital Group (now Janus Henderson) in September 2014.\n\nGross was born in Middletown, Ohio, the son of Shirley (née Tait), a homemaker, and Sewell Mark Gross, a sales executive for AK Steel Holding. Part of his family is originally from Winnipeg, Canada. He was raised a Presbyterian. He moved with his parents to San Francisco in 1954. Gross graduated from Duke University in 1966 as an Angier B. Duke Scholar, and with a degree in psychology. At Duke, he joined Phi Kappa Psi. He then served in the Navy from 1966 to 1969 as an assistant chief engineer aboard the USS Diachenko, leading several sorties of SEALS to landing sites along the coast of Vietnam. He retired from the Navy in 1970 with the Tet combat and Vietnam active service ribbons. Gross earned an MBA from the UCLA Anderson School of Management in 1971. Gross briefly played blackjack professionally in Las Vegas, Nevada, and has said that he applies many of his gambling methods for spreading risk and calculating odds to his investment decisions.\n\nGross is a CFA Charterholder, who earned his credentials while working as an investment analyst for Pacific Mutual Life between 1971 and 1976.\n\nGross managed one of the world's largest mutual funds, focusing mostly on bonds. Called \"the nation's most prominent bond investor\" by \"The New York Times\", he co-founded Pacific Investment Management (PIMCO) and managed PIMCO's Total Return fund (the world's largest bond fund) and several smaller ones until his departure in September 2014.\n\nIt was widely reported that the departure of Pimco chief executive Mohamed El-Erian was triggered by conflict with Gross. Shortly after El-Erian's departure, Gross told Reuters that he had “evidence” that El-Erian “wrote” a feature story in the Wall Street Journal on the conflict in an effort to undermine him. Pimco issued a statement to Reuters via email, denying the statements attributed to Gross.\n\nAfter El-Erian left, it was reported that Gross came under fire from the senior managers that had been put in place after El-Erian's departure, extending to consideration of firing Gross. Gross left late in the fall of 2014, and in October of 2015 sued Pimco and parent company Allianz for “hundreds of millions of dollars,” claiming that he had been pushed out by “cabal” of executives “Driven by a lust for power, greed, and a desire to improve their own financial position and reputation at the expense of investors and decency,“ calling them out for “improper, dishonest, and unethical behavior”.\n\nIn the 1990s he authored two popular-market books on investing, \"Bill Gross on Investing\" and \"Everything You've Heard About Investing is Wrong!\"\nIn September 2008, by holding large positions in agency-backed mortgage bonds of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Gross's funds netted U.S. $1.7 billion after the federal takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.\n\nGross has been married twice. In 1968, he married Pamela Roberts. They had two children: Jeff and Jennifer. They later divorced. In 1985, he married Sue J. Frank; they have one son Nick. In 2018, they were involved in a contentious divorce, with his wife claiming in court papers that Gross sprayed \"fart spray\" in their Malibu house and left dead fish in the air-conditioning ducts to make the house stink before turning it over to her. He in turn claims that his wife \"stole\" a $36.9 million Pablo Picasso painting, replacing it with a replica. Gross also claims that his wife is violent.\n\nGross is a prominent stamp collector. As of November 2005, he became the third person (after Robert Zoellner in the 1990s and Benjamin K. Miller pre-1925) to form a complete collection of 19th century United States postage stamps. In October 2005, he purchased at auction for $2.97 million a unique plate block of the famous 1918 24-cent U.S. airmail stamps known as the \"Inverted Jenny,\" featuring an engraving of a Curtiss JN-4 biplane printed upside-down. He then traded the Inverted Jenny plate block to Donald Sundman, President of Mystic Stamp Company, a stamp dealer, for a 1-cent 1868 \"Z Grill\" depicting Benjamin Franklin (one of only two known to exist), thus completing Gross's 19th century collection.His collection will be auctioned over the next two to three years with the proceeds to be donated to charity. Prior auctions of Gross’s Great Britain, British Commonwealth, Western Europe, Scandinavia, Confederate States, Switzerland and Hawaii stamp collections have generated more than $26 million in proceeds.. What remains of Gross’s collection — the United States stamps and covers – were scheduled to begin being auctioned with the sale of United States Stamp Treasures on October 3, 2018. On October 3, 2018, Gross continued his formal exit from the market when Siegel Auction Galleries sold 106 of his pieces at the Lotte New York Palace hotel in New York City. The sale generated $10 million, breaking the $9.1 million record for a single-day stamp auction set in 2007. Continuing his tradition, Gross told Barron’s that proceeds from the latest sale would go to Doctors Without Borders and the New York Times Neediest Cases, with more charities to be announced later.\n\nIn 2014 Gross was reported as one of a number of \"prominent investors [who] have taken to Transcendental Meditation\".\n\nIn 2005, Gross donated $23.5 million to Duke University, $20 million of which was set aside for financial aid. In 2006, Gross donated to Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières the $9.1m that he earned from the auction at Shreves Philatelic Galleries of his British philatelic collections. Over the years, Gross has become the largest donor in history to Doctors Without Borders at approximately $25m. His Scandinavian and Finnish collections were sold by Spink auction house in May 2008 to make a donation to Jeffrey Sachs Millennium Villages Project at Columbia University. Gross and his wife also donated $20 million to Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian for women's health and $10 million to the University of California, Irvine to found a stem cell research center at its school of medicine.\n\nIn 2012, Gross and his wife, Sue, donated $20 million to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (Los Angeles) for the new Sue and Bill Gross Surgery and Procedure Center. The center will take up the fifth floor of the Pavilion, which is scheduled to open in summer 2013.\n\nIn 2013, Gross and his wife donated $20 million to Mercy Ships. This will be designated to build toward a new hospital ship, currently in the design phase, to join the current hospital ship, the \"Africa Mercy\", in delivering medical services to the poor. In honor of this donation, the hospital on board the new ship will be named the \"Sue and Bill Gross Healing Hospital\".\n\nIn 2016, Gross and his wife donated $40 million to the University of California, Irvine to establish a nursing school.\n\nNamed after its primary benefactor, the Smithsonian National Postal Museum’s William H. Gross Stamp Gallery is the world’s largest gallery dedicated to philately. Gross donated $8 million in 2009 to the National Postal Museum to create a 12,000-square-foot gallery. Portions of the donation came from the proceeds of Gross’s sale of his collections of civil war and British North America postal history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29050243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29050243", "title": "Blanquet", "text": "Blanquet\n\nAn Apache born in Arizona, Blanquet served as a scout for General George Crook during the Apache Wars. For his participation in campaigns through the winter of 1872–1873, he was awarded the Medal of Honor two years later, on April 12, 1875.\n\nBlanquet's official Medal of Honor citation reads:\nGallant conduct during campaigns and engagements with Apaches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9801700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9801700", "title": "Brant Hansen", "text": "Brant Hansen\n\nBrant Page Hansen (born October 11, 1969) is an American radio personality and author. He has hosted the morning show on the national Christian radio WAY-FM Network and the afternoon show on the national Christian radio network Air1. He has a nationally syndicated radio show carried on over 200 stations in the United States, and is the storyteller for CURE International, a network of charity hospitals and clinics in 30 countries. He is also the midday host for KSGN in Riverside, California.\n\nHansen graduated from the University of Illinois school of journalism in 1991. Hansen began his radio career while at the college rock station WPGU. Hansen moved on to be the morning show host for contemporary Christian WBGL-FM in Champaign, Illinois, then moved to Houston, Texas and worked at 89.3FM KSBJ. He was the news director and also an on-air personality. By 2001, Hansen had moved back to Champaign, and was host of \"The Brant Hansen Show\" on WDWS 1400 talk radio.\n\nAfter leaving WDWS, Hansen moved to south Florida in 2003 and joined WAY-FM, where he spent eight years as host of \"Mornings with Brant\". During his time at WAY, he won the Radio and Records Achievement Award for \"Personality of the Year\" in a Christian format, also winning a Radio Echo Award for \"Personality of the Year\" from Christian Music Broadcasters in 2008. Hansen also partnered with several international ministries for radio promotions, including Compassion International, World Vision and CURE International. In 2009 and again in 2010, Hansen travelled to Kabul, Afghanistan promoting surgeries performed at the CURE International hospital there. On June 29, 2011, he ended an eight-year run of \"Mornings With Brant\", nationally syndicated by WAY-FM.\n\nHansen became the afternoon show host for the Air1 radio network on July 19, 2011. Hansen again won the Radio Echo Award for \"Personality of the Year\" from Christian Music Broadcasters in 2011. During his three years with Air1, he continued his partnership with CURE International, traveling to Afghanistan for a third time in February 2012. In the fall of 2012 and spring of 2013, Air1 partnered with CURE International and BEC Recordings for the \"Club Awesome Tour\", hosted by Hansen. Each night featured a dance party including Christian artists KJ-52, Manafest and 7eventh Time Down. The audience at each show was asked to help support CURE International, and as a result more than 38 surgeries were funded.\n\nOn July 3, 2014, Hansen announced on his Facebook page that he had resigned from Air1, saying that the podcast and blog on branthansen.com would be continually updated. His last show aired on Monday, July 7, 2014. In the first independent podcast, he said that he was \"in between jobs.\" The day after his last broadcast on Air1, Hansen's Air1 podcast landed on the US iTunes top 100 podcasts list for the first time, at #74.\n\nHansen announced on July 21, 2014 that he was joining the staff of CURE International, as \"storyteller\". He had worked extensively with the charitable organization in the past, helping raise money to provide surgeries for children with treatable conditions. On August 12, 2014, in his new podcast \"The Brant & Sherri Podcast\", he announced that he would have a new daily radio show starting in the near future.\n\nOn October 20, 2014, Hansen launched \"The Brant Hansen Show\", a national radio show sponsored by CURE International, and syndicated by Christian FM. Co-hosted with Sherri Lynn, Hansen describes the show as \"one of the top radio shows in the country that team a white Midwestern nerd with a form of autism and a very patient African-American lady from Pittsburgh… we're at least one of the top five in that category.\" As of November 2015, \"The Brant Hansen Show\" is syndicated in 32 states, on over 200 radio stations including WAY-FM, Word FM, Shine FM, Liberty University's The Journey FM, and NGEN Radio.\n\nHansen has authored a number of blogs, many of which were associated with the radio station he was working at the time. Some of these are Letters From Kamp Krusty, Brant's Blog of Awesomeness and Brant's Air1 Blog.\n\nSome popular recurring posts across multiple blogs by Hansen are excerpts from the fictional book \"The 417 Rules of Awesomely Bold Leadership\", a satirical look at leadership. The Krusty Sage is another popular character that Hansen uses to express opinions that can be offensive to some people, but allows Hansen to express them in a tone to which people might be more receptive.\n\nHansen had an article published on CNN's religion blog, titled \"Mr. Spock Goes To Church. How One Christian Copes With Aspergers Syndrome.\"\n\nIn 2014, Hansen wrote a book titled \"Unoffendable: How Just One Change Can Make All of Life Better\", due to release in April 2015. The subject of the book is anger, and according to Hansen, \"giving up the 'right' to be offended can be one of the most freeing, healthy, simplifying, relaxing, refreshing, stress-relieving, encouraging things we can do.\"\n\nHansen is best known as a radio personality, but not all of his jobs have been on the radio. He has been a videographer in the Army. He was the lead singer for the 90s Christian indie band Farewell to Juliet, which released albums including \"Echoes of Laughter\" in 1993 and \"Grace and Dire Circumstances\" in 1998. His love for baseball led him to be a play-by-play announcer for the St. Louis Cardinals at some of their spring training games, along with the Florida Marlins, and the New York Mets, in Port St. Lucie, Florida. However, Hansen's eye condition, nystagmus, made it difficult for him to observe the game and narrate what was happening. He was also a youth pastor for four years.\n\nHansen has Asperger syndrome and nystagmus, conditions that have presented him with challenges in social situations. He has stated that he finds these conditions exhausting, but also finds positive aspects to his circumstances. In an interview, he stated, \"Let's face it: I'm in radio because I can't be seen. Asperger's makes for real honesty – and that can make arresting radio.\"\n\nHansen is an outspoken Christian, and has been featured on the I Am Second website. He has blogged on multiple sites, and presently maintains a faith-related blog. \n\nHansen and his wife traveled to Kenya with Compassion International to meet the child they had been sponsoring. He challenged 200 listeners to also become sponsors; over 300 did. Hansen also traveled to Indonesia to assist with tsunami relief efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "3788459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3788459", "title": "Brian McGrath", "text": "Brian McGrath\n\nSir Brian Henry McGrath, GCVO (27 October 1925 – 4 June 2016) was the Private Secretary to the Duke of Edinburgh.\n\nHe was educated at Eton College. In 1943–1946 he served in the Irish Guards, and after World War II he joined Cannon Brewery (1946–1948). In 1948 he went to Victoria Wine Ltd, of which he became a director in 1949, and was chairman 1960–1982. He was also a Master of Wine.\n\nMcGrath also held various directorships, including Grants of St James Ltd 1960 (chairman 1975–1982), Allied Breweries Ltd (now Allied-Lyon Plc) 1970–1982, and Broad Street Securities Ltd (chairman 1983–1991). In 1982 he joined the Office of the Duke of Edinburgh as Assistant Private Secretary, being promoted to Private Secretary and Treasurer in 1984. In 1992 he ceased to be Private Secretary, and from 1993 to 1995 was Head of the Household. He retired as Treasurer in 1995, and in the following year was appointed Extra Equerry. He died on 4 June 2016, aged 90.\n\nMcGrath was made a CVO in 1988, and advanced to KCVO in 1993 and GCVO in 2001. He was a Younger Brother of the Corporation of Trinity House from 1993.\n"}
{"id": "56622379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56622379", "title": "Cossack riots", "text": "Cossack riots\n\nThe Cossack riots were the pogroms that were held against the Jews of modern Ukraine in 1648, during the uprising of the Cossacks and serfs led by Bogdan Khmelnitsky or the \"Hamil of Evil\" as he was called by the Jews which were against the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. Massacre of the Jews of Poland, Belarus, and today's Ukraine occurred throughout the rebellion, which lasted for many years and during the Russo-Polish War (1654-1667) and the small northern war with the Swedish Empire that ignited them. Nevertheless, the sudden destruction of many communities from the beginning of April–May 1648 (Iyar 1848), until the cessation of the Cossacks' progress in November of that year, is the source of the name. According to the historian Adam Teller: \"In the Jewish collective memory, the events in the summer and autumn of 1648 define the uprising in general, and therefore the riots were known as the 1848s.\" Thousands were slaughtered or died of starvation and epidemics, and many others fled, sold into slavery, or converted. The number of Jews killed by the Cossack rebels in 1648 was estimated at a few thousand to 20,000 at most; It is estimated that all the parties - the Cossacks, the Russians, the Swedes, their allies and the Poles themselves who massacred them on suspicion of collaborating with the invaders - died between 40,000 and 50,000 Jews in total Everything, including the dead in '48.\n\nIn 1569, with the establishment of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, large land tracts (of today's Ukraine) were transferred from the Grand Duchy of Lithuania to the rule of the Kingdom of Poland. The aristocracy, which enjoyed independence and even chose the king, controlled the area that had been ruled until then by the Tatars from the Crimea. In the territories western to the Dnieper River, tens of thousands of people from the rest of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth came to settle down. The Piłsudski and especially the great Magnates, which most of them were descendants of the local aristocracy, established vast agricultural estates and imposed strict rules on the local Ruthenian peasants.\n\nAmong the settlers there were many Jews. They were pushed from Poland itself under the pressure of city residents who wanted to reduce the economic competition. Many of the Jews were employed by the nobility as leases and estate managers. Dozens of new communities were established in Ukraine, mainly on the right bank (western area) of the Dnieper. The eastern side was a somewhat wild area. It was closer to the Crimea and dangerous to settlement, although some estates and cities were there and drew Jews looking for jobs. Southern to where the river bends, lived the Cossacks from the Zaporozhian Sich, a semi-nomadic society that maintained a routine of constant fighting with the Tatars. The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth maintained strained relations with the Cossacks and tried to subordinate them to its authority while exploiting them for military usage.\n\nThe nobility mercilessly brutalized the general population and especially the serfs. The economic and social tension, which also led to strong hostility towards Jewish lessees, has gotten worse due to religious reasons. At the end of the 16th century, in the framework of the counter-reformation, the Jesuits has reached the area. Although they intended to fight any manifestation of Protestantism, they soon turned their attention to the Ruthenians, which almost all were Orthodox Christians. Sigismund III Vasa (King Sigismund III) was a devout Catholic, as were most of the Polish nobles. Under these pressures, many of the Ruthenian nobles converted to Catholicism. Similar attempts, which were also expressed in establishing a local Uniate church and the persecution of Orthodox priests who refused to join it, were made towards the common people. The local's rage for all this was quickly channeled into acts of rebellion led by the Cossacks, who were experienced fighters and they rebelled eight times between 1592 and 1638.\n\nIn the 19th century, with the creation of Ukrainian nationalism, many historians tried to describe the conflict between a local Ruthenian independence movement and foreign Polish nobility and its Jewish servants. The great Magnates in the region were, in fact, mostly Catholics or Unites, but they were descendants of the original inhabitants, such as the Ostrogski family. The Voivode Jeremi Wiśniowiecki (the Vishnotzky Duke of the book \" The Abyss of Despair (Yeven Metzulah)\", in Hebrew: יוֵן מְצוּלָה) was the son of a well-known Orthodox family and converted to Catholicism at the age of 20. There are reports of cooperation between Jews and locals against the nobility and the Jews participation in Cossack raids. Like all the townspeople in the area, the Jews were obliged to participate in defensing the towns in case of a siege. In the East Bank, many were obliged to carry weapon in case of Tartar attacks.\n\nOne of the victims of the landowners was a local junior nobleman named Bogdan Khmelnytsky. In early 1647, his property and his intended fiancé were taken (and according to a single report, his ten-year-old son was murdered) by Daniel Czaplinski, apparently the deputyof the magnate Alexander Koniecpolski. When Bogdan Khmelnytsky turned to the courts and didn’t receive any response, a great rebellion began to develop, which was much bigger the previous ones.\n\nIn the spring of 1648, Khmelnitsky, who was appointed to be the Ataman (officer) of the Zapurozi, led an army of Cossacks against the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. He made an alliance with the Tatars, who provided him with 4,000 cavalry under the command of Tugai Bay. In April he crossed the Dnieper with his army and won two crushing victories against the crown forces, one on the Yellow River on May 15 and the other in Kurson on the 26th.\n\nThe news of his victories sparked a huge uprising among the people throughout the country. The Cossacks and the masses massacred the Jews, nobles, Catholics, and Uniattes wherever they reached. The disturbances spread to southern of today's Belarus, and the Cossack troops reached Pinsk. The eastern bank of the Dnieper, where the population was almost entirely Orthodox and the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth's presence was weak, fell without a real struggle. The following day after the victory in Kurson, on the first day of Shavuot (a Jewish holiday), on May 27, 1648, began a mass deportation of the Jews in the surrounding districts to the fortified cities, desecrating the holiday. About the same time, Yirmi Vishniewiecki withdrew from his estates in Lubny with his own army and took with him several hundred of Jews along with the other refugees. He kept gathering Jewish people on the way.\n\nNathan Neta Hanover, whose book \" \"The Abyss of Despair (Yeven Metzulah)\" \" is the best-known chronicle of events, described what he heard about the riots in the eastern bank that fell into the hands of the rebels:\n\nOn the first day of June, Khmelnitsky's main camp was stopped at Bila Sarkawa and ceased moving westward. Yet, the masses in the territories that remained under the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth control continued to rebel. Some atamans (officers) Cossack, with the most dominant of them all- Maxim Krivonos, used their forces to support the acts of rebellion. On the tenth of June, 1648, Krivonos conquered the city of Nemyriv, where a large Jewish population had fortified. According to Hanover and other record-writers, he pretended to be a friendly force and flew flags of the Crown Army, while Cossack sources reported from inside. As soon as Nemyriv fell, the Cossacks slaughtered all the Catholics and the Jews inside. Hanover reported 6,000 Jews killed, an improbable number which was denied by modern historians but still provides a measure of destruction. Mordechai Nadav noted that events of the size of that in Pinsk, in which several dozen Jews were apparently killed during the invasion, were more typical of the events. Similar massacres took place in many other cities, such as Polona and Bar. In Nemyriv, the Jewish chronologists noted a mass refusal of Jews to offer the slaughterers to convert to Christianity and to be saved, although at the same time the Shakh (Shabbatai ben Meir HaKohen) wrote that \"many Jews violated the covenant.\" A group of Jews which swore allegiance to the Cossacks and converted to Christianity rescued itself from the city after a short time, when Nemyriv fell into the hands of Vishniewitzky.\n\nOn June 18, Krivonos began a siege of Tulchyn, and broke through the wall on the 21st. The next day the fort fell. Then there was a time-out for several days and on June 26 the massacre took place. Hanover and others argued that the local commander, Duke Janusz Chetvartinsky, betrayed the Jews and gave them to the rioters while trying in vain to save his own life. Israel Halperin determined that there was no evidence of this and Chturtinsky probably tried to release all those who were inside by means of a bribe, but the Cossacks killed them all. He believed that the source of the rumor was because Cheturtinsky belonged to a devout Orthodox family and that is why the Catholics suspected him. Hannover noted that Jews were also offered to convert to Christianity, but they rejected it and chose death for the sanctification of God's Name. The historian Yechezkel Feram rejected Hannover's description and claimed that Hanover based on another person's testimony. Fram believed that the description was a distortion of the story \"cliff of the times\" about a similar sanction in Hommel that took place at the same time, on the 20th of June, 1648. Meir Meshbreshin reported that several rabbis urged the people to surrender and not to convert, and all of them were slaughtered, but this event is doubted as well.\n\nOthers like Hanover tended to link the sanctions of 1848-1988 to the Ashkenazi Kiddush tradition of the middle Ages, from events such as the 1096 decrees of Blois from 1171. The day Nemyriv was conquered, 10 June 1648, is also the Memorial Day In memory of the victims of the Cossacks. Yet, there were no similar events like the mass suicide in the days of the Crusaders in 1650. Historian Jacob Katz tended to associate this to the erosion of the ideal of Kiddush Hashem (the sanctification of God's name through martyrdom) in the past centuries, but Feram wrote that it remained as strong as ever. The difference between the riots was due to external circumstances. Unlike the Crusaders, the rebellious Ruthenians had no organized policy of conversion: they classified anyone who was not Orthodox as an enemy, but did not intended to spread their own faith. Also, there are reports of Jews who converted to Christianity voluntarily and still were killed. The Eastern Church had no direct connection with the rioters. For their part, they dealt with looting and killing for their own sake, nobility, Catholics and Uniattes as Jews. Paul of Aleppo, who visited the country a few years later, told of a desire for extermination. Even the masses, who were not familiar with the halakhic elements of the hour of annihilation but were well aware of the principle of a long tradition, viewed the events as a politic class struggle rather than an attempt to convert them, as many reports indicate, both from the chronicles and from testimonies to the courts after everything happened.\n\nIn September the noble armies suffered a heavy defeat in the Battle of Filabetsi, and in fact, there was no significant force remained until Warsaw itself. Khmelnytsky advanced toward Lviv and Zamość. In Lviv, the city's residents were offered to extradite the Jews in return for lifting the siege, but they refused. As in all other cities, the Jews took part in its defense. At the end of November, fearing a prolonged battle in the winter and after the new Polish-Lithuanian king offered him extensive concessions, Khmelnitsky retreated to Kiev. The fighting resumed at the end of May 1649, and continued intermittently for years to come. Large-scale killings were carried out against the Ukrainian Jews and the parts of Belarus that fell into the hands of the rebels. The amount of people who converted to Christianity, which many of them kept their new religion even after the conquest of their homes by the crown's faithful soldiers, was big enough that on the 2nd of May, 1650, King Jan Kazimierz gave a special order that allows all those who wished it to return to Judaism. Many were captured by the Tartars. Among the Jews it was thought that the Tartars were interested in any Jew in order to sell them in slavery markets. However, they often wanted only slaves who would provide worthwhile price. These included young women, men of working age and children. There were cases in which the Ruthenian masses rejected the attempts to sell them slaves who were not included among these classifications. It was also reported that the elderly and other non-wanted slaves were separated from the captured prisoners and burned alive so that they would not burden the caravans. However, the Tartars did not take part in the massacres known as Tulchyn and Nemyriv; these were the work of Maksym Kryvonis. The Cossacks themselves did not take slaves, but killed those who fell into their hands. The Jewish communities joined forces in the efforts to redeem the Jewish slaves, which were located mainly in the large market in Constantinople. Large donations were made throughout the Jewish world: a special tax was imposed by the Council of Four Lands in areas not affected by the revolt, the Karaites in the Ottoman capital raised donations, and the main help came from a slavery-redeeming company in Venice whose emissaries came as far as Hamburg and Amsterdam to request charity. With these funds and its official delegate, the community of Constantinople redeemed 1,500 people by July 1651, in exchange for a total amount of 150,000 Spanish reais. The stream then decreased and in total there were 2,000 redeemed people in 1648, some in distant markets such as Persia and Algiers.\n\nThe number of Jewish victims was evaluated as great. Samuel Ben-Nathan Feidel, in his book from 1650, counted 281 communities destroyed and claimed that six hundred thousand Jews were killed. The Shakh on the other hand, noted that there were one thousand. Menashe Ben Israel wrote to Oliver Cromwell that there were one hundred and eighty thousand. Although in the 20th century, Isaac Schifer estimated that there were three hundred thousand killed or taken prisoner from 1648 to -1655. Modern research has greatly reduced estimates of the victims of the massacres: Professor Shmuel Ettinger estimated the entire Jewish population of Ukraine in 1648 at -51,325 persons, based on documents from that period. Prof. Shaul Stampfer claimed that there were 40,000, stating that \"at most 50% (20,000) and perhaps much less\" than those who died at the outbreak of the revolt in 1648.\n\nIn 1654 Tsardom of Russia gave Suzerainty to Khmelnytsky and their armies invaded together into the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, both in Ukraine and in the north, in Belarus and Lithuania. At the beginning of August 1655 Vilna fell into the hands of the occupier and a mass slaughter was carried out, although the reports showed that most of the Jews had managed to escape in time. In October, Lublin was captured, where the chronicles cite about 2,000 Jews who died. It was the greatest disaster of the new battle. The historian Dov Weinryb, based both on Polish records and on personal reports, stated that the correct number was probably several hundred. The Russians also tended to take many prisoners, and a new wave of Jewish slaves reached the markets in 1665 and 1656. Once again, a great effort began to raise funds for their redemption.\n\nIn the summer of 1655 invaded a new enemy to the republic, the Swedish Empire led by King Carl Gustav. This war was the most destructive of all the struggles between Poland and Lithuania. It is still estimated to be worse than World War II in terms of the relative damage caused to the country. In what became known as the \"Swedish Flood,\" the most affluent and populated areas of Poland were completely destroyed. The circumstances led to great hunger that year. Jewish reports staged the invaders as sympathetic towards them. Although they did not take special action against them except for a random killing, many Jews, together with the rest of the people, died of starvation, epidemics and sword. For example, the Jewish quarter of Kazimierz in Kraków was completely destroyed by the siege on the city in September–October 1655 and the survivors fled to Bohemia and Moravia.\n\nThe Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was almost collapsing: Many nobles believed that Karl Gustav would do them good and change sides with their armies. The magnate Janusz Radziwiłł swore allegiance in return for protection from the Russians and cut off Lithuania from the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. But the scales were tipped by the massacres and looting of the Swedes, and especially by the awakening of Catholic sentiment with the successful defense of the Jesna Gora Monastery since November. The Piłsudski (a family of nobility that originated in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and increased in notability under the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and the Second Polish Republic) began to resent the Swedish king, who neglected their affairs, and most of them renewed their loyalty to Jan Kazimierz. The masses of the people and the minor nobility, headed by Hetman Stefan Czerniecki, launched a guerilla war against the Lutheran conquerors. In the fall of 1656, the Czar estimated that Sweden might become too strong and started supporting the King of Poland.\n\nThe rebels, driven also by the betrayal of the Calvinist Radziwill, ran what they perceived as a struggle for the Catholic Church. Lutherans, Calvinists, neo-Aryans, Orthodox and Jews were all marked as enemies and suspected of collaborating with the Swedes. Different militias and the Crown Forces massacred them frequently. On January 22, 1656, the king confiscated the remains of Kazimierz and gave all the looting that could be extracted from it to the army after declaring that the Jews had cooperated with the enemy. In February 1656, Czerniecki killed 600 Jews, according to the records, when he liberated Sandomierz Castle. Poland, Lithuania and Sweden signed a peace agreement in 1660, and the fighting between the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and Moscow resumed. It continued on a relatively limited scale until signing the Truce of Andrusovo Agreement in 1667, which brought tranquility to the kingdom for the first time in 19 years. The Lithuanian communities paid a large sum to include in the contract a clause allowing all Jewish prisoners in Russia, with the exception of converts and women who were married, to return home.\n\nThe historian Dov Weinryb wrote that according to records about the size of Jewish communities in the 1970s and 1980s, which together with other data indicate that many survived by conversion or immigration, \"a reasonable estimate\" of all Jews killed - By the sword, by all sides, and by epidemics and famine - during the turbulent period that swept Poland from 1648 to 1677, \"will be between 40,000 and 50,000, although historians point to far larger estimates, which are high enough to include between a fifth and a quarter of the Jewish population In Poland and Lithuania on the eve of the uprising. \"\n\nThe chaos that was in Poland following the sanctions brought the leaders of the communities and their rabbis into taking steps regarding the welfare of the refugees, both in material aid and in halachic discussions to allow a second marriage to women whose husbands had been lost. The problem of women whose husbands had been lost reached distant courts in communities where captives were redeemed and wanted to remarry. In Cairo, in a case cited in the \"Divrei Noam\", a group of women sent a messenger to Poland who returned with divorce documents from all their husbands.\n\nThe generation who lived at that time debated the question whether the sanctions were shedding clean blood for the sins of the House of Israel or punishment from god. Many adopted the first statement, but pamphlets published in Europe blamed the Polish Jewry of committing sins such as: loan interest, Folk distribution of Kabbalah books to the masses, raising pigs for non-Jews, lawlessness and more. The massive flight to the west also led to the renewed growth of the Holy Roman Empire as an important Torah center, after years of standing in the shadow of its neighbor to the east. Researchers in the past have frequently related the pogroms as a catalyst for the rise of Sabbateanism. Sarah, the wife of Shabtai Zvi, also became orphaned during it. Although this assertion lost its validity over time, Israel Halpern believed that the effort to raise funds for the redemption of captives throughout the continent hastened the horrific news of the events to the entire Diaspora and played an important role.\n\nIn memory of the heavy mourning, the rabbis decreed banquets and fancy costumes. Wearing silk and velvet was forbidden for three years. Women were forbidden to wear gold chains and gems for three years. It was forbidden to sing songs of joy for one year, except for wedding ceremonies, and the authority was given by the leaders of each community to extend the validity of the prohibitions for additional years.\n\nIn February 1650 The Council of Four Lands assembled in Lublin, where it was declared that the Memorial Day for the sanctions in Blois and for the day that nemyriv fell will be on the 10th of June, 1648 (20th of Sivan- a month from the Jewish calendar) In memory of the victims. Lamentations and special prayers were written to be said on this day. Rabbi Yom Tov Lipman Heller then corrected the lament of \"Ella Ezekara in Third Tears\" for those who perished. In addition, various versions of the prayer \"El Malei Rachamim\" (a Jewish prayer for the soul of a person who has died, usually recited at the graveside during the burial service and at memorial services during the year) were also composed, to be recited on the 20th of Sivan, on Yom Kippur, on the Sabbath preceding Shavuot and on Shabbat Chazon.\n\nDespite its many inaccuracies, \"Abyss of Despair\" has become a historical memory because of the high quality of Hanover's writing. It was published in more than twenty editions in several languages, and remained a major source until the 20th century. The sanctions of 1648 are mentioned in several literary works in Hebrew. The most famous of them are: \"The Slave\" by Isaac Bashevis Singer, \"The Nazarene\" by Shalom Asch, \"A City In Its Fullness\" by SY Agnon and the Ballad \"the Rabbi's daughter\" by Shaul Tchernichovsky.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2198718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2198718", "title": "D. A. Clarke", "text": "D. A. Clarke\n\nD. A. Clarke (also known as De Clarke and DeAnander) is a radical feminist essayist and activist in the United States of America who has been active since 1980.\n\nMuch of Clarke's writing addresses the link between violence against women and market economics, although she may be best known for her 1991 essay \"Justice Is A Woman With A Sword\". In that essay, which she has updated twice for editions of the anthology \"Transforming a Rape Culture\", she argues that feminist theory has taken a dogmatic approach to nonviolence and that women's self-defense, violent feminist activism, and the encouragement of positive media portrayals of violent women (such as in \"Kill Bill\" or \"\") have not been given the serious consideration they should receive and that their dismissal from mainstream feminism, while it may ultimately be desirable, has not been based on a properly thorough analysis. Her most popular work, however, may be the one least often correctly attributed to her: the early poem \"privilege\", which has been found on dorm refrigerators and bulletin boards ascribed to 'Anonymous.' In this case, at least, Anonymous really was a woman.\n\nIn addition to being published in print anthologies, much of her work has appeared online. Clarke also had brief visibility as an amateur/indie musician, with one album \"messages\" released on cassette in the mid 80's.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1126072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126072", "title": "David Sutton (writer)", "text": "David Sutton (writer)\n\nDavid Sutton (born 1966) is the current editor of the \"Fortean Times\" magazine. Sutton was born in Canterbury, Kent. He was educated at the University of East Anglia, University College London, Birkbeck College and the British Film Institute. He holds a doctorate, earned for his thesis on the origins and progress of British film comedy, and is the author of the book \"A Chorus of Raspberries: British Film Comedy, 1929-1939\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44609493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44609493", "title": "Day to Mark the Departure and Expulsion of Jews from the Arab Countries and Iran", "text": "Day to Mark the Departure and Expulsion of Jews from the Arab Countries and Iran\n\nThe Day to Mark the Departure and Expulsion of Jews from the Arab Countries and Iran (Hebrew: יום לציון היציאה והגירוש של היהודים מארצות ערב ומאיראן) is a Memorial Day that is marked in Israel every year starting in 2014, on November 30 with the purpose of marking the departure and expulsion of Jews from Arab countries and Iran. November 30 is the date that was chosen since it is symbolically the day following November 29, a day the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was adopted, and when many communities of Jews in Arab countries and Iran started to feel the pressure and hostility from their Arab and Persian neighbors and as a result of that were forced to leave their countries. It is based on a law sponsored by MK Shimon Ohayon (Yisrael Beiteinu) and passed in the summer of 2014 by the Knesset.\n\nFor many Mizrahi Jews in Israel it is considered to be a belated recognition of their collective trauma, after years of what many of them claimed to be the marking of European Jewry suffering only from the part of Israel, or the marking of Palestinian Nakba only from the part of the Arab countries.\n\nThe Knesset established this observance in 2014. The purpose of this observance is to recognize the collective trauma of Mizrahi Jews during the period around the establishment of the State of Israel. Many Mizrachi Jews felt that their own suffering was being ignored, both in comparison to the suffering of European Jewry during the Holocaust and in comparison to the Palestinian Nakba. The Gregorian-calendar date chosen is the day after the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was adopted, as that date marked the beginning of concentrated pressure and hostility against the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "33663653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33663653", "title": "Dennis deLeon", "text": "Dennis deLeon\n\nDennis deLeon (16 July 194814 December 2009) was an American human rights lawyer, HIV/AIDS activist and Latino community leader. He served as New York City human rights commissioner and later became president of the Latino Commission on AIDS.\n\nDennis Lawrence deLeon was born on 16 July 1948 in Los Angeles, California. His parents, Jess, a schoolteacher, and Josephine Munoz deLeon, were of Mexican descent.\n\nHe was graduated Bachelor of Arts by Occidental College in 1970 and had been student body president.\n\nHe was graduated Juris Doctor by Stanford University in 1974 after his studies at Stanford Law School. He had served on the Stanford Law Review.\n\nHe worked as a law clerk for a judge of the California Court of Appeals then became an associate at a private Los Angeles law firm, Kadison, Pfaelzer, Woodward, Quinn & Rossi. He moved to Washington, D. C. when recruited as a trial attorney for the United States Department of Justice. He moved back to California to become regional counsel to California Rural Legal Assistance.\n\nIn 1982, New York City Mayor, Ed Koch appointed deLeon senior assistant corporation counsel on the recommendation of Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr., New York City’s corporation counsel.\nIn 1986, David Dinkins, the Manhattan borough president, named deLeon as his deputy borough president. When Dinkins became mayor in 1990, he appointed deLeon the city's human rights commissioner.\n\nIn 1993, deLeon became one of the first New York city officials to disclose publicly his HIV status when he wrote \"My Hopes, My Fears, My Disease\" published in the New York Times.\n\nAfter briefly returning to private practice, deLeon was selected as president of the Latino Commission on AIDS in September 1994 and remained in that post until a few months before his death. Under his leadership, the organization grew from a staff of two into a national organization with a staff of 45, annual budget of $5 million and working in partnership with 380 other organizations around the United States including its territories. During his time, the Latino Commission on AIDS brought into being a national Spanish-language clearinghouse for AIDS information, worked with Spanish-speaking churches to build a network of AIDS prevention programs. It also provided structures for the mobilization of gay Latinos, immigrants, women and inmates living with AIDS. In 2003, it sponsored the first National Latino AIDS Awareness Day.\n\nHe was diagnosed with HIV in 1986. On 14 December 2009 Dennis deLeon died in Manhattan. He was survived by his partner of 32 years, Bruce Kiernan.\n"}
{"id": "36271945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36271945", "title": "Earl Ashby", "text": "Earl Ashby\n\nEarl Ashby (born 1921) is a Cuban former baseball catcher in the Negro Leagues. He played professionally from 1945 to 1950. Ashby played in the Provincial League in 1950 with the Drummondville Cubs and the St. Jean Braves. Ashby also played with the Cleveland Buckeyes, Birmingham Black Barons, Homestead Grays, and the Newark Eagles.\n\n"}
{"id": "49502755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49502755", "title": "Ellen Ekkart", "text": "Ellen Ekkart\n\nEllen Ekkart (also known as Ellen Ekkart-Saey) (born June 1973) is a professional dancer, dance teacher, choreographer and coach. She specializes in Latin and ballroom dancing.\n\nShe graduated as an interior designer, but always had a love for dancing. She danced as an amateur in the Ballroom Formation team Dance Rhapsody, and later in the Latin Formation team Café Latino.\n\nShe graduated as a color and style consultant.\n\n\nPeter & Ellen Ekkart participated in all World and European Championships from 2008, and travelled the world. They danced at the Kremlin in Russia, South Korea, Japan, Canada, the US, and almost all European countries. In June 2015, they were placed third at the World Professional Ballroom Championships 40+, in Cervia, Italy. One year later, they moved to second place, and became the vice-world Professional Ballroom Champions 40+. This was the first time in history that a Belgian couple had gained this title.\n\nAfter visiting the United States, they started learning American smooth dancing. They introduced this style for the first time in Belgian at the National Professional Belgian Congress in May 2016.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2011, VTM broadcast the version of \"Dancing with the Stars\" (US) or \"Strictly Come dancing\" (UK). Ekkart participated as a professional dancer in the first three seasons.\n\nIn 2006, she danced at the Gouden Schoen, the annual awards for professional soccer players. \n\nShe appeared as a candidate in \"Het Verstand van Vlaanderen\", a TV show with Koen Wauters.\n\nin 2007, she had a guest role in the Flemish soap series \"Wittekerke\".\n\nFrom 2007 to 2009, Ekkart choreographed dancers for a stage performance for the television show \"Zomerhit\".\n\nShe provided dancers for national artists like Bart Peeters, Clouseau, and international artists as Sister Sledge, Kim Wilde and Melanie C from the Spice Girls.\n\nin 2008, she was the principal dancer with her partner Peter in the TV1 program \"Duizend Zonnen en Garnalen\".\n\nIn July 1997, Walter Van Beirendonck, the famous Belgian fashion designer of the Antwerp Six, asked Ekkart to collaborate with his fashion show for his 1998 summer collection in Paris. He needed 70 dancers, dressed in futuristic evening costumes, green gas masks and long green rubber gloves, to dance the final shownumber, for an audience of 3.000 fashion people and reporters. Peter Ekkart did the choreography, coordinated the act, and Ellen participated as a dancer and model.\n\nIn 2005, she danced 'Tango for Three' on a show with Robert Groslot, choreographed by Marc Bogaerts.\n\nAlso in 2005, she danced and choreographed an act on the show of Dirk Brossé.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007, the Federal Antwerp Prison asked Ekkart to give dance lessons in the prison to the inmates, and to choreograph a show with the inmates.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2016, she styled businesspeople, individuals and dancers, making them more confident and professional.\n\nIn 2011 and 2013, she coached candidates for the BBC Speaking Awards.\n\nWim Jansegers had the idea of touring the Flemish cultural centers with authentic ballroom music. He looked for professional musicians and singers, and for a contact in the ballroom dancing world. That contact was soon found, and Peter and Ellen Ekkart were attracted as a show couple. They named the band The Ballroom Orchestra. The show included participation by the public, where musicians, dancers and the public interact with each other. The show toured for two years in 2013 and 2014, and played in all major cities. The highlight was three concerts in the authentic hall De Roma in Antwerp.\n\nFor an audition for his show in 2015, Wim Vandekeybus had to choose from 600 dancers coming from all parts of the world. He hired Peter and Ellen Ekkart to give a session in ballroom dancing, so he could see how quickly the dancers picked up this style. The fusion of contemporary dance, ballet and ballroom gave a special mix Vandekeybus which can use in the near future.\n\nShe married in 2001, and the couple have a son.\n"}
{"id": "24682097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24682097", "title": "Ewen Cameron (soldier)", "text": "Ewen Cameron (soldier)\n\nCaptain Ewen Cameron (1811 – April 26, 1843) was an officer in the Republic of Texas army, and participated in the ill-fated Mier Expedition.\n\nCameron, who had migrated from Scotland to Kentucky, had come to Texas in 1836, arriving just after the Texas Revolution.\n\nIn late December 1842, the Mier Expedition was a raid on the Mexican border settlement of Ciudad Mier, which turned into the Battle of Mier when the Mexican Army arrived. Cameron and the other Texans were taken prisoner, after inflicting a large number of casualties on the other side.\n\nAt a location called El Rancho Salado, a jar containing 159 white beans and 17 black beans was presented to the Texan prisoners. Each man drew a bean from the jar, while blindfolded. The 17 Texan prisoners who drew black beans were executed at dusk by a Mexican firing squad. This is known as the Black Bean Episode and occurred on March 25, 1843, three months after the Battle of Mier.\n\nCameron had selected a white bean, which should have saved his life. Yet he had earned the hostility of Mexican Colonel Antonio Canales Rosillo for his role in his embarrassing defeat in the battle at Fort Lipantitlán, Texas, in July 1842, and for Cameron's role in leading an escape attempt. Colonel Canales urged the Mexican dictator Antonio López de Santa Anna to have Cameron executed.\n\nOn April 25, 1843, the prisoners who had drawn white beans were being moved to Mexico City. As they traveled, a courier arrived with orders from Santa Anna for Cameron's execution. Cameron was shot by a firing squad at Perote Prison in the state of Veracruz, the next morning, April 26, 1843. Cameron refused to confess to a priest, and declined the offer of a blindfold, declaring, \"For the liberty of Texas, Ewen Cameron can look death in the face.\" He then opened his hunting shirt and yelled at his executioners, \"Fuego!\" (Fire!).\n\nCameron was presumably buried at Perote, Veracruz. Therefore, his remains were not among those exhumed a few years later and returned to Texas.\n\nCameron County, Texas, and Cameron, Texas, are named for Ewen Cameron.\n\n"}
{"id": "1694993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694993", "title": "F. Sionil José", "text": "F. Sionil José\n\nFrancisco Sionil José (born 3 December 1924) is one of the most widely read Filipino writers in the English language. His novels and short stories depict the social underpinnings of class struggles and colonialism in Filipino society. José's works—written in English—have been translated into 28 languages, including Korean, Indonesian, Czech, Russian, Latvian, Ukrainian and Dutch.\n\nJosé was born in Rosales, Pangasinan, the setting of many of his stories. He spent his childhood in Barrio Cabugawan, Rosales, where he first began to write. José is of Ilocano descent whose family had migrated to Pangasinan prior to his birth. Fleeing poverty, his forefathers traveled from Ilocos towards Cagayan Valley through the Santa Fe Trail. Like many migrant families, they brought their lifetime possessions with them, including uprooted \"molave\" posts of their old houses and their \"alsong\", a stone mortar for pounding rice.\n\nOne of the greatest influences to José was his industrious mother who went out of her way to get him the books he loved to read, while making sure her family did not go hungry despite poverty and landlessness. José started writing in grade school, at the time he started reading. In the fifth grade, one of José's teachers opened the school library to her students, which is how José managed to read the novels of José Rizal, Willa Cather’s \"My Antonia\", Faulkner and Steinbeck. Reading about \"Basilio\" and \"Crispin\" in Rizal's \"Noli Me Tangere\" made the young José cry, because injustice was not an alien thing to him. When José was five years old, his grandfather who was a soldier during the Philippine revolution, had once tearfully showed him the land their family had once tilled but was taken away by rich \"mestizo\" landlords who knew how to work the system against illiterates like his grandfather.\n\nJosé attended the University of Santo Tomas after World War II, but dropped out and plunged into writing and journalism in Manila. In subsequent years, he edited various literary and journalistic publications, started a publishing house, and founded the Philippine branch of PEN, an international organization for writers. José received numerous awards for his work. \"The Pretenders\" is his most popular novel, which is the story of one man's alienation from his poor background and the decadence of his wife's wealthy family.\n\nJosé Rizal's life and writings profoundly influenced José's work. The five volume Rosales Saga, in particular, employs and integrates themes and characters from Rizal's work. Throughout his career, José's writings espouse social justice and change to better the lives of average Filipino families. He is one of the most critically acclaimed Filipino authors internationally, although much underrated in his own country because of his authentic Filipino English and his anti-elite views.\n\nSionil José also owns Solidaridad Bookshop, which is on Padre Faura Street in Ermita, Manila. The bookshop offers mostly hard-to-find books and Filipiniana reading materials. It is said to be one of the favorite haunts of many local writers.\n\nIn his regular column, \"Hindsight\", in \"The Philippine STAR\", dated 12 September 2011, he wrote \"Why we are shallow\", blaming the decline of Filipino intellectual and cultural standards on a variety of modern amenities, including media, the education system—particularly the loss of emphasis on classic literature and the study of Greek and Latin—and the abundance and immediacy of information on the Internet.\n\nFive of José's works have won the Carlos Palanca Memorial Awards for Literature: his short stories \"The God Stealer\" in 1959, \"Waywaya\" in 1979, \"Arbol de Fuego\" (Firetree) in 1980, his novel \"Mass\" in 1981, and his essay \"A Scenario for Philippine Resistance\" in 1979.\n\nSince the 1980s, various award-giving bodies have feted José with awards for his outstanding works and for being an outstanding Filipino in the field of literature. His first award was the 1979 City of Manila Award for Literature which was presented to him by Manila Mayor Ramon Bagatsing. The following year, he was given the prestigious Ramon Magsaysay Award for Journalism, Literature and Creative Communication Arts. Among his other awards during that period include the Outstanding Fulbrighters Award for Literature (1988) and the Cultural Center of the Philippines Award (Gawad para sa Sining) for Literature (1989).\n\nBy the turn of the century, José continued to receive recognition from several award-giving bodies. These include the Cultural Center of the Philippines Centennial Award in 1999, the prestigious Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Arts et Lettres in 2000, and the Order of Sacred Treasure (Kun Santo Zuiho Sho) in 2001. In that same year, the Philippine government bestowed upon him the prestigious title of National Artist for Literature for his outstanding contributions to Philippine literature. In 2004, José was garnered the coveted Pablo Neruda Centennial Award in Chile.\n\n\"A five-novel series that spans three centuries of Philippine history, translated into 22 languages\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30871078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871078", "title": "Feng Guozhang", "text": "Feng Guozhang\n\nFéng Guózhāng, (; courtesy: Huafu 華甫 or 華符) (January 7, 1859 – December 12, 1919) was a key Beiyang Army general and politician in early republican China. He held the office of Vice-President and then President of the Republic of China. He is considered the founder of the Zhili Clique of Warlords that vied for control of northern China during the chaotic Warlord era.\n\nFeng Guozhang was born to a peasant family in Hejian, Hebei (then called \"Zhili\"). His family had fallen on hard times and was forced to sell its property to educate its sons; however being the fourth son, Feng was unable to complete his education due to costs. He reputedly had to survive part of his early life by playing the violin in disreputable theatres.\n\nWithout much recourse, Feng enlisted in the army, then undergoing reforms that would eventually create the Beiyang Army under the command of Yuan Shikai. Feng performed admirably and came to the notice of a battalion commander, who referred him to the Baoding Military Academy. It was at Baoding where he would make key friends and allies who would serve him well later on. In 1895 Feng was sent to Tokyo to serve as a military attaché and came to the attention of Yuan Shikai, who began to groom him to be one of his supporters within the Beiyang Army. However, when Yuan was forced to retire in 1908 by Manchu nobles fearful of his growing power, Feng managed to maintain a good relationship with both sides.\n\nIn October 1911, after the outbreak of the Wuchang Uprising, he was ordered by the Qing Court to suppress the revolution in Wuhan. He held back the Beiyang Army until Yuan Shikai was restored to power and then proceeded to capture Hankou and Hanyang from the revolutionaries in the Battle of Yangxia. On October 14 he was appointed to command the Second Army (consisting of two divisions) by the imperial court. In the battle he ordered the razing of Hankou. Then, following orders from Yuan Shikai, he halted the Qing military's advance on Wuchang. Yuan then negotiated the abdication of the Last Emperor and became the provisional president of the newly founded Republic of China in 1912. Feng followed Yuan into the new government and was honored for his contribution to the Xinhai Revolution, even though he actually took an active part in suppressing it.\n\nFeng broke with Yuan Shikai when he later attempted to make himself emperor. Yuan made Feng a duke, but Feng declined. Yuan then sent an admiral to assassinate Feng but the admiral tipped him off and was himself murdered. Feng then moved to Nanjing, where he joined the anti-Yuan opposition. His name was prominently missing from the list of proposed successors in Yuan's will.\n\nFeng then served as vice president under Li Yuanhong. During the occupation of Beijing by Zhang Xun, Feng served as acting president, a position he kept when Li formally resigned.\n\nHe was sworn in as president of the Republic of China on August 1, 1917, but his constitutionality was challenged as the National Assembly was not reconvened to recognize it.\n\nOn August 14 China entered World War I on the side of the Allies after growing evidence of the German Empire's support for Zhang's coup was uncovered, as well as intense lobbying by Premier Duan Qirui. He sent about 135,000 men in labor battalions to the Western Front, Mesopotamia and German East Africa. Troops were sent into Russia to assist the Allied intervention in Russia's civil war. Sun Yat-sen set up a rival government in Guangzhou during September 1917 and also declared war later that month in a failed attempt to get international recognition. Feng wanted to peacefully resolve the north-south conflict, which led to Duan resigning in protest. Due to pressure from the Anhui clique, he brought Duan back into the premiership. Feng finished the five-year term started by Yuan in 1913 on October 10, 1918, and died in Beijing of illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1362236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362236", "title": "Frederic Henry Hedge", "text": "Frederic Henry Hedge\n\nFrederic Henry Hedge (December 12, 1805 – August 21, 1890) was a New England Unitarian minister and Transcendentalist. He was a founder of the Transcendental Club, originally called Hedge's Club, and active in the development of Transcendentalism. He was one of the foremost scholars of German literature in the United States.\n\nBorn in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Hedge was the son of Harvard University professor of logic and metaphysics Levi Hedge. At the age of 12, he traveled to Germany and studied music for five years under the care of George Bancroft. He then entered Harvard as a junior and graduated in 1825. His knowledge of German was to serve him well both in hymnody — he translated Luther's \"Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott\" (\"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God\") into the most popular English version — and in philosophy, where it allowed him a greater familiarity with Kant than most of the Americans of his day.\n\nAfter graduating as valedictorian, he enrolled in Harvard Divinity School, where he met his intimate friend Ralph Waldo Emerson. After graduating from the Divinity School in 1828, Hedge was ordained as a Unitarian minister in 1829, and became minister at a Unitarian church in West Cambridge. In 1835 he took charge of a church in Bangor, Maine; in 1850, after spending a year in Europe, he became pastor of the Westminster Church in Providence, Rhode Island, and in 1856 of the church in Brookline, Massachusetts.\n\nHe was central to the development of Transcendentalism in the 1830s. On September 8, 1836, Hedge met with Ralph Waldo Emerson, George Putnam (1807-1878), and George Ripley in Cambridge to discuss the formation of a new club. Eleven days later, Ripley hosted their first official meeting at his house on September 18, 1836; the group would eventually be known as the Transcendental Club. Its first official meeting was attended by Amos Bronson Alcott, Orestes Brownson, James Freeman Clarke, and Convers Francis as well as Hedge, Emerson, and Ripley. Future members would include Henry David Thoreau, William Henry Channing, Christopher Pearse Cranch, Sylvester Judd, and Jones Very. The group planned its meetings for times when Hedge was visiting from Bangor, Maine, leading to the early nickname \"Hedge's Club\". Hedge wrote: \"There was no club in the strict sense... only occasional meetings of like-minded men and women\", earning the nickname \"the brotherhood of the 'Like-Minded'\". He became alienated from the group's more extreme positions in the 1840s and did not publish in the Transcendental journal \"The Dial\", despite his friendship with its editor Margaret Fuller, saying he did not want to be associated with the movement in print.\n\nHe was noted as a public lecturer as well as a pulpit orator. In 1853-1854, he lectured on medieval history before the Lowell Institute.\n\nIn 1858, Hedge returned to Harvard Divinity School as a professor of ecclesiastical history; that year, he also became editor of the \"Christian Examiner\", a role he held for three years. The next year, Hedge began a four-year term as president of the American Unitarian Association. In 1872, he resigned his pastorship in Brookline to become professor of German literature at Harvard. He retained this position until 1881. Deeply read in philosophy, ecclesiastical history, and German literature, he ranked as perhaps the foremost German literary scholar in the United States.\n\nBesides essays on the different schools of philosophy, notably magazine articles on St. Augustine, Leibniz, Schopenhauer, and Coleridge, and other contributions to periodicals in prose and poetry, he published:\n\n\nHe also wrote hymns for the Unitarian church, and assisted in the compilation of a hymn-book (1853), and published numerous translations from the German poets. He translated Martin Luther's A Mighty Fortress is Our God into English from German.\n\nHis chief significance to American thought was his introduction of German scholarship and literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1059463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1059463", "title": "Henry III of Nassau-Breda", "text": "Henry III of Nassau-Breda\n\nCount Henry III of Nassau-Dillenburg-Dietz (12 January 1483, Siegen – 14 September 1538, Breda), Lord (from 1530 Baron) of Breda, Lord of the Lek, of Dietz, etc. was a count of the House of Nassau.\n\nHe was the son of Count John V of Nassau-Dillenburg and Elisabeth of Hesse-Marburg. His younger brother was William I, Count of Nassau-Dillenburg (the father of William the Silent).\n\nIn 1499 Henry's uncle, count Engelbert II, invited Henry to the Burgundian Netherlands as his heir. He travelled with Philip the Handsome to Castile in 1501-1503. Upon the death of his uncle in 1504 Henry inherited the Nassau possessions in the Netherlands, including the wealthy lordship of Breda in the duchy of Brabant. The next year he was chosen a knight of the Golden Fleece. He again travelled to Spain in 1505-1506. He became a close confidant of the young Charles V as well as his Chamberlain (1510), becoming his Upper Chamberlain upon the death of William of Croÿ-Chièvres in 1521. The good relations between Charles and Henry is evident in the fact that Charles did not name a new Upper Chamberlain after Henry's death. Henry was named Grand Huntsman of Brabant, a position at court he held until the end of his life.\n\nIn 1519 he was part of the delegation that had Charles chosen king of the Romans. He was also prominently present at Charles' coronation to Emperor in Bologna in 1530. He was a member of the Privy Council of Charles since 1515 and of the Privy Council of Archduchess Margaret of Austria between 1525-1526. He temporarily served as Stadtholder of the conquered parts of Guelders and was Stadtholder of Holland and Zeeland between 1515 and 1521. Henry was again in Spain between 1522 and 1530 (accompanying Charles) and in 1533-1534 (with his wife and son).\n\nHenry served as an important military commander in the Netherlands, defending Brabant from Guelders in 1508. He was Captain General in the war with Guelders between 1511 and 1513, and fought with Maximilian of Austria against France until 1514, participating in the battle of Guinegate (1513). He again commanded the armies against Guelders and France between 1516 and 1521, defeating the Black Band, which was in the employ of Charles of Guelders, in 1518 and defeating Robert van der Marck, Lord of Sedan in 1521. He also repelled Francis I of France, who invaded Hainaut that same year. Subsequently Henry conquered Tournai. \nAlthough Henry, who attended the Diet of Augsburg in 1530, was at first not averse to Martin Luther and his teachings, he later followed Charles' example and remained a staunch Catholic. He didn't approve of the choice of his brother William, who did become a Lutheran, but remained supportive of him throughout his life. He was very impressed with the Renaissance and especially its arts, examples of which he encountered on his journeys to Spain and Italy. For example, he commissioned Italian architect Tomasso Vincidor da Bologna to completely rebuild his castle at Breda in a renaissance style in 1536, one of the first of such buildings north of the Alps. However, his interests seem to have been superficial. Desiderius Erasmus only considered him a \"platonic friend of science\".\n\nHenry married three times:\n\nHenry had no further legitimate children, although he is known to have had some illegitimate offspring, amongst them Alexis of Nassau-Corroy and Isabelle of Nassau, both legitimised after the death of their father, and both had an impressive descendance. One of his descendants is Philippe François de Berghes, 1st Prince of Grimberghen.\n\nHis third marriage to Mencia de Mendoza y Fonseca was mainly encouraged by Charles V, as part of his plan to make the nobility of Spain and the Low Countries mix. Henry was however never really liked by the Spaniards, who regarded him as a loud and barbarian German parvenu. Upon his death in 1538 he was succeeded by his only son, but René was himself slain in battle only a few years later in 1544. Henry lies buried beneath the grave monument he had erected for his uncle Engelbert in the at Breda.\n\n"}
{"id": "233922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233922", "title": "Holly Johnson", "text": "Holly Johnson\n\nWilliam Holly Johnson (born William Johnson, 9 February 1960), known professionally as Holly Johnson, is an English artist, musician, and writer, best known as the lead vocalist of Frankie Goes to Hollywood, who achieved huge commercial success in the mid-1980s. Prior to that, in the late 1970s he was a bassist for the band Big in Japan. In 1989, Johnson's debut solo album, \"Blast\", reached number one in the UK albums chart. Two singles from the album – \"Love Train\" and \"Americanos\" – reached the top 5 of the UK Singles Chart. In the 1990s he also embarked on writing, painting, and printmaking careers.\n\nWilliam (Holly) Johnson was born on 9 February 1960 in Liverpool to Eric and Pat (née McGlouchlin) Johnson. Johnson was the third of four children and was nicknamed Billy as a child. He started his education in Liverpool at St Mary's Church of England primary school and at age eleven went to the Liverpool Collegiate School in Everton. At fourteen, Johnson took on the name Holly, inspired by actress Holly Woodlawn, a friend of Andy Warhol.\n\nDuring his second year at the Liverpool Collegiate, Johnson and his friend were teased and nicknamed \"Jolly Johnson\" and \"Honey Heath\". The two shared an interest in Marc Bolan and David Bowie. While he attended Liverpool Collegiate, Johnson was actively involved in that city's punk rock/new wave scene of the late 1970s. Johnson played bass with the local band Big in Japan and also released two solo singles on the Eric's label. Both \"Yankee Rose\" and \"Hobo Joe\" failed to chart, however. Johnson met his partner, Wolfgang Kuhle, in the early 1980s. \n\nKuhle, Johnson's personal manager, became a successful art dealer and collected paintings by Duncan Grant and Vanessa Bell. In 1982, Johnson joined Frankie Goes to Hollywood, and he later found fame as the lead singer and lyricist of the band. In 1987, tension grew between Johnson and the rest of his group. He also had an argument with his record company and won a case in court against them on restraint of trade. He left Frankie Goes To Hollywood and the other members of the band were eventually let go by the label after the court case \"ZTT and Perfect Songs v Holly Johnson\". \n\nIn 1991, Johnson was diagnosed with HIV and wrote an autobiography, \"A Bone In My Flute\"; he did not expect to live much longer. Johnson remained creative working as a painter and printmaker and writing songs until 1994 when he returned to performing music occasionally. One of Johnson's paintings appears as the cover to the Kirsty MacColl single \"Angel\".\n\nAfter gaining some measure of local celebrity from being a member of Big In Japan, Johnson became involved with a group of younger musicians who together would become the nucleus of Frankie Goes to Hollywood. Johnson himself named the new band after seeing the headline of an article about Frank Sinatra. This new band quickly gained a reputation for their stage show which had strong SM overtones. It was during this period that guitarist Brian Nash and backing vocalist Paul Rutherford completed the band's established line up.\n\nAfter the band's reputation grew large enough to attract record company interest, they were eventually signed to a new record company, ZTT. Johnson became exposed to the general public via the phenomenal success of their debut single Relax, which was a huge, and controversial, hit in 1984. After such success during 1984, when the band spent nearly four months at the top of the singles chart, Johnson was firmly established as a household name. By autumn 1986, his star had faded considerably. Frankie Goes to Hollywood had not released any material since early 1985 and were absent from that year's Live Aid event. \n\nIn addition, he did not perform on the successful charity single \"Do They Know It's Christmas\" by Band Aid in December 1984. By 1987 his relationship with the rest of the band had broken down irretrievably, not helped by his decision to gain legal rights to exclusive use of the band's name, without consultation with other members. The UK Intellectual Property Office ruled against Mr Johnson, however, and during a reunion on the TV show \"Bands Reunited\" many years later, refused to perform with them but did not rule out a future possibility. In his own words; \"If it happens, we do it properly. We have a reputation. I'm not a wedding singer!\"\n\nJohnson left Frankie Goes to Hollywood in 1987 because of disagreements regarding their musical direction. He became the subject of an injunction from the group's record company, ZTT Records, and its sister publishing company, Perfect Songs, which cited a breach of his prior recording and publishing contracts, thus barring him from pursuing a solo career with any other new label. He embarked on a two-year legal battle with ZTT, the case being settled in Johnson's favour on 10 February 1988, the judge ruling that the original contracts had constituted an unreasonable restraint of trade, remarking that \"Mr. Johnson could be 70 years old and still be bound to this contract\".\n\nZTT unsuccessfully appealed against the judge's decision, the Appeal Court concluding on 26 July 1989 that the original recording and publishing contracts were \"not a fair bargain\". The result represented a landmark legal outcome, contemporary press reports stating that the result \"set a legal precedent which rocked the music business\", adding that ZTT had by this time released most of its artists from their original contracts.\n\nJohnson's relationship with ZTT owners Trevor Horn and Jill Sinclair broke down irretrievably due to the court case: \"They, [Horn and Sinclair] have never really forgiven me for winning my freedom in the law courts\", the singer said in 2001, adding that the worst part of being in FGTH was \"the contract we signed with ZTT.\"\n\nIn 1989, Johnson finally made his first solo debut with the album \"Blast\", for MCA Records. Singles \"Love Train\", \"Americanos\" and \"Atomic City\" met with warm reception, the former two both charting in the UK's top 5. Johnson took part in a charity project for the Hillsborough disaster fund and recorded a popular single \"Ferry Cross the Mersey\" with Paul McCartney, the Christians and others. The single reached number 1 in the UK and Ireland.\n\nAfter the 1990 remix album \"Hollelujah\", Johnson released his second solo album in 1991. \"Dreams That Money Can't Buy\" was a commercial failure and did not chart in the UK, while the singles \"Where Has Love Gone?\" and \"Across the Universe\" performed very poorly on UK singles chart. In November 1991, Johnson learned that he was HIV positive. This triggered a temporary withdrawal from the music business and public life in general, with one of his last TV performances around the time being at the Diamond Record Awards, Antwerp, where he performed \"Americanos\" and \"Where Has Love Gone?\". His HIV status was made public during an interview with \"The Times\" in April 1993.\n\nIn March 1994, Johnson's critically acclaimed autobiography \"A Bone in My Flute\" was published, in which he discusses his struggle with, and acceptance of, his homosexuality. The same year, he recorded a new single, \"Legendary Children (All of Them Queer)\", whose lyrics referred to famous LGBT people throughout history. During 1994, he performed live at London's Gay Pride show, where he performed \"Relax\", \"Legendary Children\" and \"The Power of Love\". The same month Holly Johnson featured on and co-wrote the single \"Love and Hate\" by Ryuichi Sakamoto (from his Sweet Revenge album)\n\nIn April 1998, he performed \"The Power of Love\" live at the Easter Gay Happening in Krefeld, Germany at Club Königsburg.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, Johnson has worked primarily as a painter. His works have been exhibited at the Tate Liverpool and the Royal Academy. He has contributed to \"Modern Painters\" and the Paul Smith-sponsored \"Carlos\" magazine. He made a musical comeback in 1999, with a self-released album called \"Soulstream\", preceded by the 1998 promo only single \"Hallelujah!\". The video for the first available single \"Disco Heaven\" featured a cameo performance from Boy George. However, the album passed fairly unnoticed and didn't chart. The only charting single from \"Soulstream\" was a new version of \"The Power of Love\". For the release of \"Soulstream\", Johnson appeared on the Jools Holland Show performing \"The Power of Love\" and performed the song again in 2004 for ZDF Love Songs.\n\nIn August 2009, Johnson presented an hour-long show \"In the Beginning\" on BBC Radio 2 about the Beatles, whilst he also appeared in the new video for Frankie Goes to Hollywood's \"Relax\" as the DJ. Since then, he has performed \"The Power of Love\" twice in Germany, also performing the song at the opening of Life Ball 2011 in Vienna. In an interview at the Q Awards, Johnson announced plans for an album of new material. In 2010, Johnson performed \"Americanos\" on German TV, and \"Relax\" on French TV. During February 2011, Johnson joined Jools Holland and his band for a version of the Animals' \"The House of the Rising Sun\" song, a track that Johnson covered on his \"Soulstream\" album. In August 2011, he performed a full set live at the Rewind Festival, using a mix of Frankie Goes to Hollywood songs together with some of his solo hits \"Americanos\", \"Heaven's Here\" and \"Love Train\".\n\nIn May 2014, Johnson announced his first UK solo tour, named \"Dancing with No Fear\". The seven-date tour was preceded by a new solo album, released on 15 September. The album, titled \"Europa\", was preceded by a lead single, \"Follow Your Heart\". \n\nThe second single from \"Europa\", \"In And Out Of Love\", was released on 4 September 2014 with a special pop promo directed by Chris Shepherd. In October 2014 \"Europa\" entered the UK Album Chart at # 63, becoming Johnson's first album to chart in the UK since his debut \"Blast\". In December 2014, Johnson released a live album, only available as merchandise during the tour and his website titled \"Unleashed From the Pleasuredome\".\n\nIn late 2015, Johnson co-wrote a song with Gary Barlow for the film \"Eddie The Eagle\". The song \"Ascension\" was released in March 2016 as the focus track for the album Fly (songs inspired by the film Eddie The Eagle) and appears on the end credits for the film. .\n\n"}
{"id": "9678325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9678325", "title": "Howard Heys", "text": "Howard Heys\n\nHoward M. Heys is a cryptographer, a professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Memorial University of Newfoundland. His research includes the design and analysis of stream and block ciphers and efficient hardware implementations of them; he participated in the design of CAST-256 and has published cryptanalyses of such block ciphers as RC5 and CIKS-1. He has served twice as co-chair of the Selected Areas in Cryptography workshop: with Carlisle Adams in 1999, and with Kaisa Nyberg in 2002.\n\nHeys received his Ph.D. in 1994 from Queen's University. He lives in St. John's, Newfoundland with his wife and two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "53732648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53732648", "title": "Jane Elizabeth Conklin", "text": "Jane Elizabeth Conklin\n\nJane Elizabeth Conklin (July 7, 1831 - 19 December 1914) was a 19th-century American poet and religious writer from New York. For three years, she served as president of the Woman's Relief Corps of the Grand Army of the Republic. She enjoyed a reputation as an elocutionist; and was the author of three volumes of poetry. She was born and died in Utica, New York.\n\nJane Elizabeth Dexter's great-grandfather, Gregor (or George) Grant), chieftain of Clan Grant, from Abernethy, Scotland, came to the United States in 1774. He joined the Continental Army and served during the American Revolutionary War. Dexter's mother was the daughter of William W. Williams, an architect of Albany, New York. Dexter's father was born in Paris, New York, his parents having removed to that town from Mansfield, Connecticut in the latter part of the 18th century.\n\nConklin was born in Utica and received her education in the Utica Female Academy and in Mrs. Brinkerhof's School for Young Ladies in Albany. Her first composition was written in verse. When she was 14 years old, her poems were first published, and after that time, she wrote continuously.\n\nWhile none of her poems were strictly hymns, many of them were sung in religious meetings. She was, for many years, a contributor to the Utica \"Gospel Messenger\". She also wrote prose and poetry for a New York City weekly, and for several local papers. In 1884, she published a book of poems, which was favorably received. In 1897, she was preparing a second volume of poems, ultimately publishing three books of poetry in total. Conklin was also remembered as an elocutionist.\n\nIn December, 1865, she married Cramer H. Conklin, a veteran of the American Civil War, and they subsequently lived in Binghamton, New York. Conklin took great interest in the American Civil War and in the defenders of the Republic.\n\nWhen the Grand Army of the Republic post to which her husband belonged formed a Relief Corps of wives and daughters, she was one of the first to sign a call for a charter. Shortly after the Corps was organized, she was elected its president, and for three years, she held that office. Conklin died at her home in Utica on December 19, 1914.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51489258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51489258", "title": "Johanna Cornelius", "text": "Johanna Cornelius\n\nJohanna Catharina Cornelius (February 27, 1912 – June 21, 1974) was an Afrikaner activist and trade unionist. She served as the Afrikaner Garment Worker's Union (GWU) president after Solly Sachs.\n\nCornelius was born in Lichtenburg, South Africa, and grew up in rural South Africa as one of nine children. Her father and grandfather both fought in the Anglo Boer War and her mother was held in a concentration camp during the war. She and her older sister, Hester Cornelius, moved to Johannesburg in the 1920s, where Johanna eventually started working in a garment factory. Cornelius worked as a machinist in the factory.\n\nCornelius was arrested and detained in jail for several house in 1932 while participating in a GWU strike. After she was released from jail, she spoke to the workers and encouraged them to \"demand a living wage and freedom.\" Her speech also referenced the Great Trek and the Anglo Boer War, joining \"nationalism together with the class struggle rather than with the national struggle.\" She went to the Soviet Union as part of a workers' delegation in 1933. Her trip there helped her learn more about communism and a sense of social equality. When she returned from the Soviet Union, she became a full-time union organizer for GWU, working from the main office in Germiston.\n\nCornelius worked as the GWU president from 1935 to 1937 and under her leadership, the union won reduced working hours and increased wages for workers. Cornelius worked to include people of all backgrounds in the union and felt that working in the union had helped her \"transcend the racial attitudes\" of her past. She and Hester also traveled to Cape Town in February 1936 help the GWU branch there.\n\nCornelius was accused in 1938 of being a \"communist accomplice of Sachs and for spending all her time organising black people.\" However, she was able to successfully fight off attempts by Afrikaner nationalists who wanted to take control of the union. She became a founder of the National Union of Cigarette and Tobacco Workers in 1938, later leading a two-week strike in Rustenburg in September 1940. The strike in Rustenberg was \"heated\" and women in the strike faced tear gas and police attacks.\n\nIn 1943 she ran unsuccessfully as an Independent Labor Party candidate. When Solly Sachs was exiled from South Africa in 1952, she took over the GWU and worked that position until her death.\n\nCornelius died on June 21, 1974, in Johannesburg.\n"}
{"id": "13497354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13497354", "title": "John Leak Springston", "text": "John Leak Springston\n\nJohn Leak Springston \"Oo ne qua ti\" ᎤᏁᏆᏘ (1844–1929), a Cherokee, is best known as an Indian activist; during his life he was a Cherokee Interpreter, Editor, Lawyer, and Keetoowah Revivalist. Springston was born in the fall of 1844 in Indian Territory near Lynch's Mill, five miles east of the present site of Spavinaw Dam in the state of Oklahoma. He was the son of Anderson Springston and Sallie Eliot, Cherokees who walked the Trail of Tears from Gunter's Landing, Alabama on the Tennessee River, some 600 miles to Indian Territory. After removal, Anderson practiced law in the Cherokee courts of the Delaware and Tahlequah Districts, and as a young boy, John received instruction in tribal law and Cherokee culture at his father’s side.\n\nYoung Springston, who attended school in the Delaware District, was a native Cherokee speaker, and did not learn English until age seven. An eloquent speaker and writer, he was employed as a clerk and court reporter in the Saline District by the age of fifteen and planned to pursue a law degree at Shurtleff College at Alton, Illinois. Before he could realize his goals, however, Indian Territory became embroiled in the Civil War, and in response, he volunteered for service in the Union Army. As a member of the Third Regiment, Company I, Indian Home Guards under the leadership of Colonel William A. Phillips and the command of Captain Whitecatcher, he spent his entire tour of duty in and around the Spavinaw vicinity. With Company I, he engaged in two major battles in the region, at Cabin Creek near Vinita and at Honey Springs near Muskogee, yet because of his significant bilingual skills and legal experience, his superiors assigned him to the post of Acting Interpreter at Fort Gibson.\n\nIn the postwar years, Springston accepted employment as translator and associate editor of the weekly Cherokee Advocate, published at Tahlequah. In this capacity, he worked as an associate of William P. Boudinot, William P. Ross, and other prominent Cherokees whose influence did much to shape his developing political ideology. His editorial and linguistic capabilities soon attracted the attention of Cherokee tribal officials who offered him the position of Secretary to the Principal Chief and official Executive Translator. His new post afforded him special access to all transactions between the Cherokee Nation and the federal government, and helped to expand his knowledge about the inner workings of government.\n\nIn 1867, Springston married Sarah Eliza Moseley, a Cherokee, with whom he had two daughters, Ruth and Elizabeth, however, Moseley became ill and died in 1872. In 1874, he married a second wife, Amanda Williams, in Tahlequah. His second marriage produced two more daughters, Viola and Wenona. Williams died in 1882. In 1886, he married a third time, to Alice Caroline Gray of North Carolina, with whom he had his only son, William. P. Boudinot Springston.\n\nWith his traditional upbringing, Springston favored the views of those who contested federal intervention in Indian Territory. He shared their perceptions of a reinvigorated, autonomous, and independent Cherokee Nation, and worked tirelessly toward those goals for the rest of his life. He was also a staunch abolitionist. Growing increasingly agitated over the large numbers of interlopers, imposters, and frauds that had been steadily pouring into the Cherokee Nation in search of a fast dollar in the reconstruction era, he supported a revitalization of the ancient Keetoowah Society, a nativist movement that opposed slavery and non-Cherokee interference in tribal matters. Between 1880 and 1890, this secret society was so powerful in Indian Territory, that it was able to dictate who held positions of authority within the Nation. During this period, Springston served as sheriff of the Saline District, as clerk of the Cherokee senate, and authored several volumes on Cherokee laws and treaties in both Syllabary and English.\n\nHe retired from the Advocate staff in 1886; however, he continued his interest in newspaper work by assuming editorship of the Tahlequah Morning Sun. Two years later, he accepted an important appointment as interpreter in the United States court at Fort Smith, presided over by Judge Isaac C. Parker, the infamous \"Hanging Judge of Indian Territory.\" Parker’s court had exclusive jurisdiction over criminal matters in Indian Territory.\n\nSpringston also acted as clerk of the senate and official interpreter throughout the administration of Chief Dennis Bushyhead, 1879 - 1887. Until his retirement in 1925, he continued to practice law and devoted a great deal of his time to pursuing pension claims for Indian veterans of the Civil War and the Spanish–American War.\n\nFor some years, the Springston family made their home in Sallisaw where John constructed a large home near the Kansas City Southern Railroad station. This home, known as the Springston House, later housed the first public school in Sallisaw.\n\nAfter his third marriage, Springston moved to Vian, where he became one of the principal founders of that town. He spent his declining years with his son in Tulsa, where he died in 1929 at the age of eighty-four years. William. P. Boudinot Springston, his son, donated Springston's important papers to the Oklahoma Historical Society, the Gilcrease Museum, and University of Oklahoma’s Western History Collections for preservation.\n\n"}
{"id": "25416316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25416316", "title": "John Mathews (lawyer)", "text": "John Mathews (lawyer)\n\nJohn Mathews (1744November 17, 1802) was an American lawyer from Charleston, South Carolina. He was a delegate to the Continental Congress from 1778 to 1781 where he endorsed the Articles of Confederation on behalf of South Carolina. On his return, he was elected the 33rd Governor of South Carolina, serving a single term in 1782 and 1783.\n\nMathews was born in Charleston in the Province of South Carolina in 1744. He was the son of John Mathews and Sarah Gibbes; the exact date of his birth is not known. He was commissioned an ensign and in the South Carolina Provincial Regiment which took part in an expedition against the Cherokee in the early 1760s, and was promoted to lieutenant.\n\nHe studied law at Middle Temple in London. He was a law clerk for Colonel Charles Pinckney after returning to South Carolina, was admitted to the bar, and practiced in Charleston. In 1772 he was elected to the colonial Assembly. In 1775 and 1776 he was a member of the First and Second South Carolina Provincial Congresses. In 1776 he was appointed an associate judge of the state circuit court. From 1776 to 1780 he served in the South Carolina House of Representatives, and he was Speaker in 1777 and 1778. During the American Revolution he served as a captain in the Colleton County regiment. He was a founding trustee of the College of Charleston.\n\nMathews was a member of the Continental Congress from 1778 to 1781, and was a supporter of the Articles of Confederation. He was then elected governor by the state legislature, and served from 1782 to 1783.\n\nAfter leaving the governorship, Mathews won election as a judge of the state Court of Chancery in 1784. he was again elected to the South Carolina House in 1784. from 1791 to 1797 he was a judge of the state Court of Equity in 1791.\n\nMathews died in Charleston on November 17, 1802. He was buried at Circular Congregational Church Burying Ground in Charleston.\n\nIn 1766 he married Mary Wragg. After her death, in 1799 he married Sarah Rutledge, the sister of John Rutledge and Edward Rutledge.\n\nHis sister Elizabeth Mathewes was the wife of Thomas Heyward, Jr.\n\n"}
{"id": "23878508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23878508", "title": "Johnny P. Curtis", "text": "Johnny P. Curtis\n\nChief Johnny P. Curtis (born November 28, 1950) of Fort McDowell, Arizona is a member of the San Carlos Apache Tribe. Chief Curtis has been involved in Native American Music since the early gospel music movement of the 1970s. Chief Curtis has produced multiple records within the past thirty plus years. He writes his own original songs and music compositions. In October 2008 Chief Curtis received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Native American Music Association in Niagara Falls, New York. He is also two time Native American Music Awards winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "51600087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51600087", "title": "Josephine Victor", "text": "Josephine Victor\n\nJosephine Victor (June 28, 1885 – 1963) was a Hungarian-born American stage actress, director, and playwright.\n\nJosephine Gunczler was born in the Tokay Hills in Hungary in 1885, and moved to New York City as a child. She may have attended the Wheatcroft School of Acting on a scholarship. She used her brother Victor's first name for a surname when she began acting. She began performing with the Howard Kyle Company, and made headlines as early as 1906, when her costume caught fire on stage, and she doused the flames without breaking character.\n\nOn Broadway she debuted in \"The Secret Orchard\" by Channing Pollock (1908), and appeared in \"Temperamental Journey\" (1913), \"The Yellow Ticket\" (1914), \"The Bargain\" by Hermann Georg Scheffauer (1915), \"Just a Woman\" by Eugene Walter (1916), \"Martinique\" by Laurence Eyre (1920), \"Dolly Jordan\" by Ben Iden Payne (1922), \"The Cup\" (1923), \"Judgment Day\" by Elmer Rice (1934), \"Wise Tomorrow\" (1937), and finally \"Summer Night\" (1939). She is credited as director of one play, \"Doctor X\" (1931), a \"mystery thriller\". She toured the United States with a vaudeville show in 1921. She also appeared on the London stage, in \"Pelican\" by F. Tennyson Jesse (1924), and in a few films.\n\nVictor was also a playwright. In 1910 she co-wrote a play, \"Ashes\", with Eleanor Maud Crane. Later, as Josephine Victor Reid, she wrote \"The Prize Pig's Tea-party\" (1934), a play, \"How to Get Rich\" (1930). She also co-wrote two plays, \"Clay Pigeon\" (1936, with Marjorie Paradis) and \"Read about Laura Keene\" (1937, with I. S. Strouse). She collaborated with Laurence Eyre on creating the 1920 play \"Martinique\", but was not credited as its co-author.\n\nJosephine Victor married Francis E. Reid, a publicist and drama critic. She was widowed in 1933. She died in 1963, aged 78 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "22050559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22050559", "title": "Keri (fedayi)", "text": "Keri (fedayi)\n\nArshak Gavafian, better known by his \"nom de guerre\" Keri (1858 – 15 May 1916), was an Armenian fedayee military commander and member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation.\n\nArshak Gavafian was born in Erzurum. He graduated from the local Armenian school. Gavafian had soon taken part in Armenian resistance activity. In 1895, during the Hamidian massacres in Erzurum, Gavafian led an armed group to protect Armenian people in the region and soon became their spiritual leader.\n\nGavafian moved to Sasun in 1903 and took part in the 1904 Sasun uprising. After moving to Vaspurakan, he was one of the organizers of the Armenian self-defense of Zangezur (in particular, Angeghakot) during the Armenian–Tatar massacres. In the following years he took part in the Persian Constitutional Revolution from 1908 to 1912 and was an associate of Yeprem Khan. After Yeprem's death, Gavafian had his killers liquidated in revenge and took the leadership of the Caucasian troops.\n\nAfter the declaration of the First World War, Keri became the commander of the 4th Armenian volunteer battalion of the Imperial Russian Army in 1914. Keri led the volunteer unit in the Battle of Sarikamish at the Barduz pass. Victory was largely determined by the courage of the Armenian soldiers and military genius of Keri, who relieved the besieged Russian and Armenian troops at Rowanduz in 1916.\n\nIn 1916, on his way to Mosul from Rowanduz, Keri and his detachment were surrounded and, while trying to get out, he was killed in battle. After his death, his body was transferred to Tiflis and buried within the Armenian Khojivank cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "51504365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51504365", "title": "Lala Fay Watts", "text": "Lala Fay Watts\n\nLala Fay Watts (1881–1971) was an American suffragette, temperance advocate, and labor activist. Born in Massachusetts, she spent most of her life in Texas where she led multiple organized reform efforts. She was Texas' first child welfare inspector and first chief of the women's division in the Texas Department of Labor.\n\nLala Fay was born December 23, 1881, along with a twin sister, in Northfield, Massachusetts. Her parents were Frank F. Fay and Carrie Fay (née Ware). Her maternal grandmother was a Quaker. As a child, Fay and her twin sister marched in \"Band of Hope\" temperance parades. When Fay was a teenager, the family, which by then included a third daughter, moved from Massachusetts to San Antonio, Texas. She began calling herself Laura, which she felt was a more dignified name than Lala. Fay graduated from Sam Houston State Normal College and became a teacher. On August 18, 1902, Fay married Major Claude De Van Watts, a veteran of the Spanish–American War. The couple had two children, one boy and one girl.\n\nIt was through being a mother that Watts became involved in activism. As a member of the Dallas Mothers Counsel, she asked the mayor of Dallas to put a woman on the welfare board. When he refused and suggested Watts go home and raise her family instead, she became an active suffragette.\n\nFrom 1917 to 1919 Watts served as President of the Dallas Council of Mothers, a group affiliated with the Texas Congress of Mothers. She also served as the first President of Dallas' Parent-Teacher Association.\n\nWatts was appointed Texas' first child welfare inspector in 1918. During World War I, child labor laws were not being strictly enforced due to the wartime labor shortage. Watts was one of a group of Children's Year activists who demanded a child welfare inspector be appointed in the state's Bureau of Labor and Statistics to rectify the problem. Texas Governor William P. Hobby agreed to appoint Watts to the position. Following her appointment, Watts moved from Dallas to Austin, Texas. \n\nIn 1919, Watts was named chief of the women's division of the Texas Department of Labor. To investigate conditions of factory workers first hand, Watts secured a job sewing overalls for a salary of $3. She joined the Garment workers union and worked in the factory until her boss discovered she was Mrs. Claude De Van Watts and fired her. Watts reported her findings back to the Texas Legislature and recommended a series of reforms for working women and children including a mother's pension, compulsory school attendance, increased sanitation, and rest periods. Her work led to the passage of 22 laws or amendments seeking to improve the working condition of women and children. In 1921, newly elected Governor Pat Morris Neff ended Watts' tenure in government.\n\nIn the 1928 presidential election, Watts, then a leader of the Texas state Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), was an ardent Herbert Hoover supporter. Republican Hoover was considered an acceptable \"dry\" candidate while the Democratic nominee Al Smith supported modifying prohibition laws. She spurred WCTU members to form Democratic Hoover clubs. She was elected state president of the WCTU in 1922, a position she would hold for 41 years.\n\nGovernor W. Lee O'Daniel nominated Watts to the state Liquor Control Board. The Senate did not confirm her to the position.\n\nWatts had three grandchildren, two boys and a girl.\n\nWatts died on November 8, 1971, in Fort Worth, Texas, after a long illness. She is buried at Oakwood Annex Cemetery in Austin.\n\n"}
{"id": "39205463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39205463", "title": "List of ethnobotanists", "text": "List of ethnobotanists\n\nThis is a list of ethnobotanists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46597030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46597030", "title": "Mabel Arcondo", "text": "Mabel Arcondo\n\nMabel Arcondo (1940–1976) was a Paraguayan artist whose work is classified in the art history of Paraguay as being at the intersection between primitivism and surrealism. Her work was characterized by intense color and dream themes.\n\nMabel Arcondo was born in Asunción, Paraguay, in 1940. At the age of 17, she contracted polio and spent the remainder of her life in a wheelchair.\n\nMabel studied commercial art in Buenos Aires and learned the rudiments of painting from Adán Kunos in Asunción, but she was largely self-taught. Stylistically her work is complex, drawing on a dream-like quality which transforms reality in the manner of Chagall and using color schemes of fauvism, but with an original sense of melancholy, according to Ticio Escobar. Her paintings have strong use of color, good composition and a surrealistic quality.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s in Paraguay, there was a flowering of local painters including Arcondo, Carlos Colombino, Ricardo Migliorisi, Ignacio Núñez Soler, and Laura Márquez, who were able to capture in their works the culture of Paraguay.\nShe began to exhibit her paintings in 1964 and has works in both private collections and the Museo Paraguayo de Arte Contemporáneo (The Paraguayan Museum of Contemporary Art). Arcondo's work was seen as revolutionary, on the cusp between primitivism and surrealism.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, Arconda began a relationship with the artist Ruben Milessi. Though doctors warned her that a pregnancy might jeopardize her health further, she gave birth to her only child, Daniel Milessi, on 3 June 1976. Soon after the birth, she died in Asunción.\n\nShe is considered one of the iconic painters of Paraguay. Her works are held and shown in numerous museum collections and in 2014 were part of a discussion and exhibit presented by the International Association of Art Critics Paraguay Chapter.\n\n"}
{"id": "23463934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23463934", "title": "Maggie Cogan", "text": "Maggie Cogan\n\nMaggie Cogan is a resident of New York City who became a minor celebrity in the early 1960s when she was the first female horse and carriage driver in Central Park, working for the Plaza Hotel. She appeared in a 1967 Universal newsreel with her horse and carriage, and in 1968, also appeared on quiz show What's My Line?, with contestants attempting to guess her occupation.\n\nAfter leaving her career briefly in the 1960s, she resumed it in 1970, befriending Lisa Ryan, the daughter of actor Robert Ryan, who had also become a horse-and-carriage driver. By this point, she had had 2 unsuccessful marriages and given birth to two sons, both of whom she gave up when her life began to unravel. In 1977, while living with Ryan, Cogan began to show signs of mental illness and she was eventually committed to a mental hospital by her parents.\n\nEventually, she became homeless when she left her career for good. Director Michel Negroponte discovered her living in Central Park and made the documentary film Jupiter's Wife about her.\n\nCogan was raised in a town near New York City, and in high school, she was an active student, participating in cheerleading and dance clubs. After graduating, she attended several colleges but never completed an undergraduate degree. At 19, she began a career with the Palace Hotel, becoming the first ever female Central Park carriage driver. In 1968, when the city announced that horse-drawn carriages would have to carry meters like taxicabs, Cogan was quoted in the associated story in the New York Times, saying \"Meters! It's ridiculous. In this country, they almost want to meter our minds. It'll be like Coney Island. Tawdry.\"\n\nIn the late 1960s, Cogan's life began to unravel. She had two failed marriages, one of which produced two children. After showing increasing signs of being unable to cope with her failed relationships, she left her two children with her parents and moved to Texas for 4 years. Upon returning, she was unable to reclaim her children.\n\nCogan began to exhibit signs of increasing mental instability in the 1970s, while living with Ryan. She developed an infatuation with Ryan's father (actor Robert Ryan) and began sending him odd gifts, such as voodoo dolls attached to love notes. In 1977, she developed an additional infatuation with serial killer David Berkowitz and in the same year was mugged on the street, with her attacker slashing her face. According to Ryan, \"For the rest of the summer she barricaded herself in her bedroom and wouldn't come out.\"\n\nBy the end of the summer, Ryan and Cogan were scheduled to move out of their shared apartment. Cogan's parents arrived, moved her out, and committed her to a mental hospital.\n\nAfter losing her job as a carriage driver, Cogan became homeless, living most of the next 15 years in Central Park. To help herself deal with reality, she concocted vivid stories about herself, claiming that SHE was, in fact, Robert Ryan's daughter. She also claimed to have Extra Sensory Perception. However, her charm and wit helped her make friends who helped feed and clothe her during this period. She also developed a deep love for animals, adopting several dogs and living with them.\n\nIn 1989, Michel Negroponte was attempting to make a documentary about his childhood in Central Park when he encountered Cogan and decided to make the film, Jupiter's Wife, about her instead. He filmed Cogan throughout 1989 until the end of 1991, showing her with her dogs, with friends, moving around Central Park, attending a gymnastics class that was taught by one of her friends, etc.\n\nBy the end of the film, a small abandoned maintenance shack she had been living in with her dogs during the winter had been raided and demolished by police and sanitation workers. However, after being able to receive public assistance due to her mental condition, she was able to move into an apartment. The film won a special jury prize at the Sundance Film Festival.\n\nIn 1995, Cogan, with her pets, was evicted from her Long Island City apartment. She moved in with friend Sara Whalen, founder and operator of Pets Alive shelter in Wallkill, NY. The New York Times reported that the arrangement was short lived as Cogan returned to Central Park five weeks later.\n"}
{"id": "2523340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2523340", "title": "Mary Jackson (actress)", "text": "Mary Jackson (actress)\n\nMary Jackson (November 22, 1910 - December 10, 2005) was an American character actress whose nearly fifty-year career began in 1950 and was spent almost entirely on television. She is best known for the role of the lovelorn Emily Baldwin in \"The Waltons\" and was the original choice to play Alice Horton in the daytime soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\". She in fact played the part in the unaired pilot although the role was subsequently taken by Frances Reid.\n\nBorn in the village of Milford, Michigan, She earned a bachelor's degree from Western Michigan University in 1932.\n\nShe was a schoolteacher during the Great Depression for one year before pursuing her interest in the theater.\n\nShe returned to college, enrolling in Michigan State University's fine arts program and, subsequently, began her performing career on Chicago stage, in summer stock and, at the start of the period referenced as the Golden Age of Television, in New York City and, as the 1960s began, in Hollywood.\n\nMary Jackson was survived by her husband of 68 years, Griffin Bancroft Jr., to whom she was married from July 4, 1937 until her death, in Los Angeles, from Parkinson's disease, two-and-a-half weeks just after her 95th birthday.\n\nAlways close to her Michigan roots, Jackson was a charter member of the Milford Historical Society. Jackson was instrumental in 1988 in raising money to rebuild the Oak Grove Cemetery Bridge over the Huron River - a bridge that connected the Village of Milford to its oldest burial grounds. Jackson was buried at Oak Grove Cemetery, in her hometown of Milford, Michigan.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10037526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10037526", "title": "Mikhail Loginov", "text": "Mikhail Loginov\n\nMikhail Nikolayevich Loginov (; November 21, 1903 in village of Ivanishinskiye Gorky (now in Staritsky District, Tver Oblast) – October 28, 1940 in Miskhor, Crimean ASSR) was a prominent Soviet designer of anti-tank, air-defense, and other types of artillery, widely used during World War II.\n\nBeing a chief of the designer bureau of 8th Kalinin Artillery plant in Kaliningrad (Moscow Oblast), he created, among others, 45-mm anti-tank gun M1937 (53-K), 76-mm air-defense gun M1938, 37-mm air-defense gun M1939 (61-K), 85-mm air-defense gun M1939 (52-K), 25 mm automatic air defense gun M1940 (72-K).\n\nFor his achievements he was rewarded with Order of the Red Star (1937), Order of Lenin (1939), and Stalin Prize (1941, after his death).\n"}
{"id": "25660746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25660746", "title": "Mirosław Bojanowicz", "text": "Mirosław Bojanowicz\n\nMirosław Artur Bojanowicz (1906 - 9 May 1986) was a Polish philatelist who settled in England after World War II and became a recognized expert on the stamps of Poland. He frequently served as a judge at international exhibitions and in 1966 was invited to sign the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists; Bojanowicz was one of very few professional philatelists to be accorded this honour.\n\nBojanowicz was born in Yugoslavia and as a child moved with his parents to Poland. He was of Bosnian origin, his original name was Miroslav Bojanović which was polonised to Mirosław Bojanowicz.\n\nBefore the war he collected Bosnia and Herzegovina for which he won a gold medal in Warsaw in 1936. He later expanded this collection to the whole of Yugoslavia.\n\nAfter the war he formed a collection of the postal history and stamps of Poland for the period 1938 to 1946 which, in 1966, he donated to the British Museum (now the British Library). This collection includes Łodz ghetto post, underground posts, Warsaw Scout post, Polish government in exile, prisoner of war mail and Polish Free Forces mail.\n\nHe specialised in Poland No 1 and probably had one of the largest collection of this stamp in the world. This collection comprised some 1,500 copies of the stamp, over 300 covers and about 600 documents from this period. He started this collection in 1952. He was the author of \"The Kingdom of Poland: Poland No 1 and associated Postal History\" (1979).\n\nIn 1966 Bojanowicz donated an important collection of Polish stamps and postal history of 1938-1946 to the British Library Philatelic Collections where it forms the Bojanowicz Collection and complements the Kaluski Collection.\n\nBojanowiz won many awards for his collection including:\n\nFrom 1979 to 1982 he was the first President of the Grand Prix Club.\n\nBojanowicz was survived by his wife Lina (née Balestri), with whom he had two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "58834835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58834835", "title": "Onorato Caetani (1742–1797)", "text": "Onorato Caetani (1742–1797)\n\nOnorato Caetani (17 December 1742 - 26 June 1797) was an Italian scholar who was Principal of the Accademia degli Incolti in Rome in 1762. The academy was an institution founded by the Nazareno College originally dedicated to promoting a coherent balanced education. \n\nOnorato was a younger son of Michaelangelo Caetani, Duke of Sermoneta, of the noble Caetani family. He studied the classics at tne Nazareno College in addition to mathematics, physics and foreign languages and in 1764 graduated from the Sapienza University of Rome. He chose to follow an ecclesiastic career but never completed his studies. He was nevertheless appointed abbot of Valvisciolo Abbey. Between 1765 and 1772 he was Regent of the chancellery and in the latter year Pope Clement XIV named him a non-participating apostolic protonotary.\n\nBetween 1775 and 1785 he worked to create a large library in the family home. He attended cultural meetings and was a member of various academic societies. He commissioned the Swiss painter Angelika Kauffmann to paint two canvasses on subjects inspired by episodes of the novel \"The Adventures of Telemachus\" by François Fénelon. The resulting paintings are \"The Sorrow of Telemachus\" and \"Telemachus and the Nymphs of Calypso\", both now in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\n"}
{"id": "3986714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3986714", "title": "Pat Bowlen", "text": "Pat Bowlen\n\nPatrick Dennis Bowlen (born February 18, 1944) is the majority owner of the Denver Broncos of the National Football League (NFL). The Bowlen Family, including his two brothers John Bowlen and Bill Bowlen, and sister Marybeth Bowlen, purchased the team from Edgar Kaiser in 1984. He served as the Broncos CEO from his purchase of the club in 1984 until July 2014, when he stepped down as Broncos' CEO due to the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease.\n\nBowlen was born in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, the son of Arvella (née Woods) and Paul Dennis Bowlen, who became a millionaire in the Canadian oil business, founding Regent Drilling as a wildcatter. The oil company is now owned by his brother John. Bowlen is Catholic. He attended Campion Jesuit Catholic High School and later earned degrees in business (1965) and law (1968) from the University of Oklahoma. The younger Bowlen became wealthy in his own right by becoming a successful lawyer in Edmonton, Alberta. He also worked as an executive for his father's company and as a real estate developer and had major investments in the mining industry.\n\nBowlen is an initiated member of the Pi Kappa Alpha International Fraternity. He was initiated by the University of Oklahoma, Beta Omicron chapter in 1963. He is a member of the bar association and law society of Alberta, Canada. Bowlen is also one of the largest donors to the University of Denver.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2008, Bowlen and the Broncos were involved in several legal battles against one-time owner Edgar Kaiser. In 1998, Bowlen agreed to sell retired football legend John Elway a share in the team. When Bowlen let the existence of the offer slip out to Kaiser while both were at the 1999 Bohemian Grove, Kaiser sued, claiming a breach of contract. Kaiser asserted that he had a right of first refusal if any deal is made involving franchise ownership. In 2004, a jury ruled in favor of Kaiser and a federal judge decreed that Kaiser was entitled to purchase back 10% of the Broncos using the identical purchase terms offered to Elway. Bowlen appealed the original verdict that ruled in favor of Kaiser and won in 2008, as the appellate court ruled that the structure of the Bowlen-Elway deal did not violate the original right of first refusal agreement.\n\nOn December 30, 2008, Broncos head coach and Vice President of Football Operations Mike Shanahan was fired by Bowlen after a 14-year tenure as the head coach. Bowlen stated he wanted his team to go in a different direction. He undertook a search over two weeks and eventually chose Josh McDaniels, who at the time was the offensive coordinator of the New England Patriots. Subsequently, after a losing streak in the 2010 season, McDaniels was fired as head coach of the Broncos. On February 12, 2009, Bowlen appointed Brian Xanders as the team's sole general manager and fired Jim Goodman and Jeff Goodman.\n\nWithin two weeks of the end of the 2010-11 regular season, Bowlen and the Broncos had hired former Carolina Panthers' coach John Fox to be their new head coach. Although Bowlen had discussions with Fox before the hiring, new front-office executive John Elway was mostly responsible for the hiring. By late 2009, rumors had begun to emerge that Bowlen had stepped out of the spotlight because of short-term memory loss. He told The Denver Post columnist Woody Paige that his memory wasn't what it used to be and that he couldn't recall details of the Broncos back-to-back Super Bowl titles in the late 1990s. Starting in 2010, Bowlen no longer played a major role in the Broncos' decision making, and Executive VP John Elway and President Joe Ellis assumed control. On July 23, 2014, due to complications with Alzheimer's disease, he officially relinquished control of the team to Joe Ellis.\n\nOn November 1, 2015, Bowlen was inducted into the Broncos' Ring of Fame, earning him a bronze plaque that stands on the south side of Sports Authority Field at Mile High.\n\nSince Bowlen acquired the team in 1984, the Broncos have the highest winning percentage of any franchise in the National Football League (334 wins, 212 losses, and 1 tie, for a .612 winning percentage), passing the San Francisco 49ers after the 2015 season.\n\nBesides being owner and CEO of the Broncos, Bowlen was also part-owner of the Arena Football League's Colorado Crush. He shared ownership with Denver-based sports mogul Stan Kroenke and legendary Broncos quarterback John Elway. The Crush entered the AFL as an expansion franchise in 2003. After going through a 2-14 season in 2003, the team became a perennial playoff contender and one of the league's top franchises. The Crush won the Arena Football League Championship in 2005.\n\nIn 2006, Major League Lacrosse decided to expand adding the Denver Outlaws to its league of teams. The Denver Outlaws have been the most winning franchise that Bowlen has ever owned, boasting a regular season win percentage of .690 since their creation. The Outlaws have been to the playoffs every year of their existence except one (2015) and advanced to the championship game eight times (2006, 2008, 2009, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, and 2018), winning the championship in 2014, 2016, and 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18766171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18766171", "title": "Phil Roe (politician)", "text": "Phil Roe (politician)\n\nDavid Phillip Roe (born July 21, 1945) is an American politician and doctor who is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 2009. He is a member of the Republican Party. The district is based in the Tri-Cities area in the northeastern portion of the state. In 2017, Roe became chairman of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs.\n\nRoe was born on July 21, 1945 in Clarksville, Tennessee. He graduated from Austin Peay State University in 1967 and earned his Medical Degree from the University of Tennessee College of Medicine in 1972.\n\nAfter graduating from medical school, Roe served in the United States Army Medical Corps, attached to the 2nd Infantry Division at Camp Casey, South Korea. He was discharged as a major in 1974. He then went into OB/GYN practice in Johnson City, retiring after 31 years, including his work as a physician at State of Franklin Healthcare Associates (SOFHA). SOFHA was founded in 1997. After first being elected into the U.S. House of Representatives, Roe purchased a 1.8% ownership share of State of Franklin Healthcare Associates Real Estate Partners with property holdings within the Med-Tech Regional Business Park located in the northern section of Johnson City, Tennessee.\n\nRoe was first elected to the Johnson City Commission in 2003, serving as vice mayor of Johnson City from 2003–2007 and then as mayor from 2007 to 2009.\n\n\nRoe defeated incumbent congressman David Davis in the 2008 primary by 500 votes. Davis blamed his loss on votes from Democrats who crossed over to vote for Roe in the open primary. Roe had previously run for the seat in 2006 when 10-year incumbent Bill Jenkins announced his retirement, but lost to Davis in that year's primary.\n\nRoe defeated Democrat Rob Russell, director of the Writing and Communication Center at East Tennessee State University, in the November general election with 72 percent of the vote. However, it was widely presumed that Roe had clinched a seat in Congress with his victory in the primary; Republicans have held the 1st District seat continuously since 1881, and for all but four years since 1859.\n\n\nRoe won re-election in 2010 with 80.8% of the vote against Democrat Michael Clark.\n\nThe 1st is known for giving its congressmen very long tenures in Washington; Roe was only the eighth person to hold the seat in 88 years. \n\nRoe hired Andrew Duke, a former chief of staff for North Carolina Republican congressman Robin Hayes, as his chief of staff. According to National Journal’s 2009 Vote Ratings, he was ranked as the 101st conservative in the House.\n\nOn February 5, 2013, Roe introduced the National Desert Storm and Desert Shield War Memorial Act (H.R. 503; 113th Congress) into the House. The bill would authorize the National Desert Storm Memorial Association to establish a memorial to honor members of the armed forces who participated in Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield. Roe said \"I believe we should honor the commitment of every man and woman that honorably serves this country, and I am proud to see this bill move forward.\"\n\nDuring June 2013, WJHL-TV in Johnson City reported that Roe had written a letter to the federal court in Greeneville on the behalf of Dr. William Kincaid, who had plead guilty to one count of receiving in interstate commerce a misbranded drug. Federal prosecutors under the Independent Payment Advisory Board argued that Dr. Kincaid's driving forces for breaking the law were \"money and greed\" and because that decision by Kincaid created a \"substantial risk of harm to patients,\" prosecutors also said Kincaid should spend the maximum three years behind bars for fraudulently obtaining federal reimbursement as a healthcare provider.\n\nRoe had initially promised to serve only five terms (10 years) in Congress. However, on February 6, 2018; he announced he would run for a sixth term, saying that he needed to continue the work begun when he became chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "902042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=902042", "title": "Richard Brothers", "text": "Richard Brothers\n\nRichard Brothers (25 December 1757 – 25 January 1824) was an early believer and teacher of British Israelism, a theory concerning the Lost Ten Tribes of Israel. \n\nBrothers was born in Port Kirwan, Newfoundland (earlier known as Admiral's Cove).\nHe was educated in Woolwich, England. He entered the Royal Navy and served under Keppel and Rodney. In 1783, he became lieutenant, and was honourably discharged on 28 July 1783, receiving a pension which amounted to half-pay (54 pounds per year). He then travelled on the continent of Europe and later married Elizabeth Hassall in 1786. His marriage was reported as being \"unhappy\" and so he returned to service in the Royal Navy.\n\nBecause he came to believe that military service was not compatible with his new calling to serve Christianity, in 1789 he once again left the Navy. Built upon the principle of individual revelation, Brothers believed that he could not serve the King as head of the Church of England.\n\nIn 1791, he began to question the oath he had been required to take for receipt of his military half-pay, and he found himself with little income as a result of his subsequent actions. Brothers then divided his time between the open air and the workhouse, where he developed the idea that he had a special divine commission. Brothers claimed to hear the voice of an attending angel which proclaimed to him the fall of Babylon the Great, which was in fact London. Apparently upon Brothers's plea for mercy, God decided to spare London for a time and the destruction was halted. Around this time, Brothers was also expectant of a heavenly lady who would descend from the clouds showering him with money, love and happiness. In February 1792 Brothers declared himself a healer and claimed he could restore sight to the blind. He drew large crowds, but not due to his healing ability as much as his small gifts of money to those he prayed for.\n\nIn 1793 Brothers declared himself to be the apostle of a new religion. He began to see himself as possessing a special role in the gathering of the Jews back into Palestine, in particular, the \"Jews\" who were hidden amongst the population of Great Britain. In similarity to modern British Israelists, Brothers asserted that the \"hidden Israel\" had no notion of its biological lineage and that part of his role would be to teach them of their true identity and lead them to the land of Canaan. Brothers proclaimed himself to be \"Prince of the Hebrews\", literal descendant of the Biblical House of David, and the \"Nephew of the Almighty\", who would rule over Israel until the return of Jesus Christ. Brothers declared he would achieve all this using a rod he had fashioned from a wild rosebush, with which he would perform miracles, as Moses had done.\n\nAll this was declared in the first British Israelist publication in 1794:\n\n\"A REVEALED KNOWLEDGE OF THE PROPHECIES AND TIMES, Book the First, wrote [sic] under the direction of the LORD GOD and published by His Sacred Command, it being the first sign of Warning for the benefit of All Nations; Containing with other great and remarkable things not revealed to any other Person on Earth, the Restoration of the Hebrews to Jerusalem by the year of 1798 under their revealed Prince and Prophet (i.e., Richard Brothers). London, Printed in the year of Christ 1794.\"\n\nBrothers began to attract quite a following, but due to his rejection of organisational work, and eccentric nature, he did not develop any sort of social movement. In consequence of prophesying the death of the King and the end of the monarchy, he was arrested for treason in 1795, and imprisoned on the grounds of being criminally insane. His case was, however, brought before Parliament by his ardent disciple, Nathaniel Brassey Halhed, an orientalist and a member of the House of Commons. As a result Brothers was removed to a private asylum in Islington.\n\nWhile he was in the private asylum Brothers wrote a variety of prophetic pamphlets which gained him many believers. Amongst his supporters was William Sharp, the engraver. Some of his political predictions (such as the violent death of Louis XVI) seemed to be proof that he was inspired. But when Brothers predicted that, on 19 November 1795 he would be revealed as \"Prince of the Hebrews\" and \"Ruler of the world\", and the date passed without any such manifestation, Sharp deserted him to become a religious follower of Joanna Southcott. His followers tended to drift away either disillusioned or embarrassed.\n\nBrothers spent the last 30 years of his life designing the flags, uniforms, and palaces of the New Jerusalem. John Finlayson finally secured his release from the private asylum in 1806, and Brothers moved into his London home, where he died a lonely figure on 25 January 1824. Finlayson then began a financial campaign against the Government, seeking payment of an enormous claim for his maintenance of Richard Brothers prior to his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51227544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51227544", "title": "Sergei Lousianin", "text": "Sergei Lousianin\n\nSergei Lousianin (, , born 23 July 1956) is a Russian political scientist, orientalist, an expert on international relations in East Asia, domestic and foreign policy of China and Mongolia, security issues in the Asia-Pacific Region and Central Asia.\n\nDoctor of Historical Sciences, Professor. Director of the Institute of Far Eastern Studies, Russian Academy of Science (IFES RAS), Professor at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO), Professor at the National Research University – Higher School of Economics, expert of the Russian International Affairs Council, President of the Oriental Studies Support Foundation.\n\nLousianin was born on 23 of July, 1956, in Irkutsk. He graduated with distinction from the Pedagogical Institute of Irkutsk State University in 1977, and completed his Ph.D. at the Institute of Oriental Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 1984 (thesis title: \"China in the Russian-Mongolian relations, 1911-1919\"). In 1994 he received the degree of Doctor of Sciences, thesis title: \"Russia, Mongolia and China in the first half of the 20th century\".\n\nHe speaks Chinese, Mongolian, English, and Russian languages.\n\n\nAuthor of over 400 scientific papers, including 7 monographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "55202058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55202058", "title": "Soothe", "text": "Soothe\n\nSoothe is a multi-national massage service provider based out of Los Angeles, California. The company allows users to request the services of a massage therapist. Since its launch in 2014, the mostly mobile app-based company has received significant press coverage and has expanded its service area to include many cities and counties in the United States. It also provides services in a few cities in Australia, Canada and the UK.\n\nSoothe was founded in August 2013. It was created by Merlin Kauffman, CEO & cofounder, and Bradley Herman, former CTO & cofounder. Kauffman developed the idea behind the service while studying at the Harvard Business School. He was a domain-name investor who started as a teenager. As an adult, he invested four hundred thousand of his own money to start the business. The company first began operating in the Los Angeles area where it was based. It also has a second headquarters in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nAs of December 2014, the service had 300 licensed massage therapists in Los Angeles and also covered Austin, Miami, Orange County, Phoenix and San Diego. In August 2015, the company received $10.6 million in funding from The Riverside Company. By this point, the company had expanded to a total of 13 cities which included Chicago, Seattle, and San Francisco. In its March 2016 Series B funding, the company raised an additional $35 million. It had expanded to twenty-two areas in the US, including Atlanta and Indianapolis. Soothe had a total of more than 3,200 massage therapists across the nation. It also operates at a loss and planned to continue to do so “for the foreseeable future”. However, the company reported a monthly revenue of $1.2 million as of March 2016.\n\nAs of April 2016, Soothe’s coverage area also included such cities as Houston, Minneapolis, Orlando, and Portland. It had also expanded services to Canada by including Vancouver, British Columbia. The company also began servicing in Europe with London becoming the first city across the Atlantic.\n\nIn July 2016, the company has signed-up corporate clients like Facebook, Hulu, and Microsoft. According to the company, the move was partly motivated by a desire to smooth-out demand and mitigate the spike in service requests outside of the regular nine to five corporate business hours. By February 2017, the service was available in 51 cities in the US while also adding services to Toronto, Canada. In summer 2017, the company launched two locations in Australia by expanding its services to Sydney and Melbourne.\n\nOn May 2, 2018, Soothe raised $31 million in Series C funding from The Riverside Company.\n"}
{"id": "45377778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45377778", "title": "Spectre of Newby Church", "text": "Spectre of Newby Church\n\nThe Spectre of Newby Church (or the \"Newby Monk\") is the name given to an artifact found on a photograph taken in the Church of Christ the Consoler, on the grounds of Newby Hall in North Yorkshire, United Kingdom. The image was taken in 1963 by the Reverend Kenneth F. Lord. As the artifact appears to resemble a human, much speculation has been had regarding what type of person might be in the image. Most speculation by believers has concluded that it resembles a 16th-century monk, with a white shroud over his face, possibly to mask leprosy or another disfigurement. Others contend that it is an accomplice in a costume.\n\nInitial claims suggested that the figure would measure at 9 feet tall, but its feet are not visible and it could easily be standing on a box, giving the impression of height.\n\nOn looking over the image, purported photographic experts have concluded that the image is not the result of double exposure, although Rick Burden, founder of the Ghost Hunters of Australia website, believes to be \"probably fake.\" It resembles many other double exposure hoaxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "88483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88483", "title": "Sun Yat-sen", "text": "Sun Yat-sen\n\nSun Yat-sen (; 12 November 1866 – 12 March 1925) was the founding father of the Republic of China. The first provisional president of the Republic of China, Sun was a Chinese medical doctor, writer, philosopher, Georgist, calligrapher and revolutionary. As the foremost pioneer and first leader of a Republican China, Sun is referred to as the \"Father of the Nation\" in the Republic of China (ROC) and the \"forerunner of democratic revolution\" in the People's Republic of China (PRC). Sun played an instrumental role in the overthrow of the Qing dynasty (the last imperial dynasty of China) during the years leading up to the Xinhai Revolution. He was appointed to serve as Provisional President of the Republic of China when it was founded in 1912. He later co-founded the Kuomintang (Nationalist Party of China), serving as its first leader. Sun was a uniting figure in post-Imperial China, and he remains unique among 20th-century Chinese politicians for being widely revered amongst the people from both sides of the Taiwan Strait.\n\nAlthough Sun is considered to be one of the greatest leaders of modern China, his political life was one of constant struggle and frequent exile. After the success of the revolution and the Han Chinese regaining power after 268 years of living under Manchurian rule (Qing dynasty), he quickly resigned from his post as President of the newly founded Republic of China to Yuan Shikai, and led successive revolutionary governments as a challenge to the warlords who controlled much of the nation. Sun did not live to see his party consolidate its power over the country during the Northern Expedition. His party, which formed a fragile alliance with the Chinese Communist Party, split into two factions after his death.\n\nSun's chief legacy resides in his developing of the political philosophy known as the Three Principles of the People: nationalism (Han Chinese nationalism: independence from imperialist domination – taking back power from the Manchurian Qing dynasty), “rights of the people,” sometimes translated as “democracy,” and the people's livelihood (just society).\n\nSun was born as Sun Wen (Cantonese: \"Syūn Màhn\"; ), and his was Sun Deming (\"Syūn Dāk-mìhng\"; ). As a child, his was Tai Tseung (\"Dai-jeuhng\"; ). Sun's courtesy name was Zaizhi (\"Jai-jī\"; ), and his baptized name was Rixin (\"Yaht-sān\"; ). While at school in Hong Kong he got the art name Yat-sen (). Sūn Zhōngshān (), the most popular of his Chinese names, is derived from his Japanese name \"Nakayama Shō\" (), the pseudonym given to him by Tōten Miyazaki while in hiding in Japan.\n\nSun Yat-sen was born on 12 November 1866 to Sun Dacheng and Madame Yang. His birthplace was the village of Cuiheng, Xiangshan County (now Zhongshan City), Guangdong. He had a cultural background of Hakka (with roots in Zijin, Heyuan, Guangdong) and Cantonese. His father owned very few lands and worked as a tailor in Macau, and as a journeyman and a porter. After finishing primary education, he moved to Honolulu in the Kingdom of Hawaii, where he lived a comfortable life of modest wealth supported by his elder brother Sun Mei.\n\nAt the age of 10, Sun Yat-sen began seeking schooling, and he met childhood friend Lu Haodong. By age 13 in 1878, after receiving a few years of local schooling, Sun went to live with his elder brother, Sun Mei () in Honolulu. Sun Mei financed Sun Yat-sen's education and would later be a major contributor for the overthrow of the Manchus.\n\nDuring his stay in Honolulu, Sun Yat-sen went to ʻIolani School where he studied English, British history, mathematics, science, and Christianity. While he was originally unable to speak English, Sun Yat-sen quickly picked up the language and received a prize for academic achievement from King David Kalākaua before graduating in 1882. He then attended Oahu College (now known as Punahou School) for one semester. In 1883 he was sent home to China as his brother was becoming worried that Sun Yat-sen was beginning to embrace Christianity.\n\nWhen he returned to China in 1883 at age 17, Sun met up with his childhood friend Lu Haodong again at Beijidian (), a temple in Cuiheng Village. They saw many villagers worshipping the Beiji (literally \"North Pole\") Emperor-God in the temple, and were dissatisfied with their ancient healing methods. They broke the statue, incurring the wrath of fellow villagers, and escaped to Hong Kong. While in Hong Kong in 1883 he studied at the Diocesan Boys' School, and from 1884 to 1886 he was at The Government Central School.\n\nIn 1886 Sun studied medicine at the Guangzhou Boji Hospital under the Christian missionary John G. Kerr. Ultimately, he earned the license of Christian practice as a medical doctor from the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese (the forerunner of The University of Hong Kong) in 1892. Notably, of his class of 12 students, Sun was one of only two who graduated.\n\nIn the early 1880s, Sun Mei sent his brother to ʻIolani School, which was under the supervision of British Anglicans and directed by an Anglican prelate named Alfred Willis. The language of instruction was English. Although Bishop Willis emphasized that no one was forced to accept Christianity, the students were required to attend chapel on Sunday. At Iolani School, young Sun Wen first came in contact with Christianity, and it made a deep impression on him. Schriffin writes that Christianity was to have a great influence on Sun's whole future political life.\n\nSun was later baptized in Hong Kong (on 4 May 1884) by Rev. C. R. Hager an American missionary of the Congregational Church of the United States (ABCFM) to his brother's disdain. The minister would also develop a friendship with Sun. Sun attended To Tsai Church (), founded by the London Missionary Society in 1888, while he studied Western Medicine in Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese. Sun pictured a revolution as similar to the salvation mission of the Christian church. His conversion to Christianity was related to his revolutionary ideals and push for advancement.\n\nIn 1924 Liao Chongzhen, a prominent and influential government official of the day, arranged a meeting between Sun and Martha Root, a well-known journalist and traveling teacher of the Bahá'í Faith in the late 19th and early 20th century. In this meeting Sun came into contact with the Teachings of the Bahá'í Faith, expressing his appreciation for the Cause and declaring it \"highly relevant to the needs of China.\"\n\nDuring the Qing Dynasty rebellion around 1888, Sun was in Hong Kong with a group of revolutionary thinkers who were nicknamed the Four Bandits at the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese. Sun, who had grown increasingly frustrated by the conservative Qing government and its refusal to adopt knowledge from the more technologically advanced Western nations, quit his medical practice in order to devote his time to transforming China.\n\nIn 1891, Sun met revolutionary friends in Hong Kong including Yeung Ku-wan who was the leader and founder of the Furen Literary Society. The group was spreading the idea of overthrowing the Qing. In 1894, Sun wrote an 8,000 character petition to Qing Viceroy Li Hongzhang presenting his ideas for modernizing China. He traveled to Tianjin to personally present the petition to Li but was not granted an audience. After this experience, Sun turned irrevocably toward revolution. He left China for Hawaii and founded the Revive China Society, which was committed to revolutionizing China's prosperity. Members were drawn mainly from Chinese expatriates, especially the lower social classes. The same month in 1894 the Furen Literary Society was merged with the Hong Kong chapter of the Revive China Society. Thereafter, Sun became the secretary of the newly merged Revive China society, which Yeung Ku-wan headed as president. They disguised their activities in Hong Kong under the running of a business under the name \"Kuen Hang Club\" ().\n\nIn 1895, China suffered a serious defeat during the First Sino-Japanese War. There were two types of responses. One group of intellectuals contended that the Manchu Qing government could restore its legitimacy by successfully modernizing. Stressing that overthrowing the Manchu would result in chaos and would lead to China being carved up by imperialists, intellectuals like Kang Youwei and Liang Qichao supported responding with initiatives like the Hundred Days' Reform. In another faction, Sun Yat-sen and others like Zou Rong wanted a revolution to replace the dynastic system with a modern nation-state in the form of a republic. The Hundred Days' reform turned out to be a failure by 1898.\n\nIn the second year of the establishment of the Revive China society on 26 October 1895, the group planned and launched the First Guangzhou uprising against the Qing in Guangzhou. Yeung Kui-wan directed the uprising starting from Hong Kong. However, plans were leaked out and more than 70 members, including Lu Haodong, were captured by the Qing government. The uprising was a failure. Sun received financial support mostly from his brother who sold most of his 12,000 acres of ranch and cattle in Hawaii. Additionally, members of his family and relatives of the Sun would take refuge at the home of his brother Sun Mei at Kamaole in Kula, Maui.\n\nSun Yat-sen spent time living in Japan while in exile. He befriended and was financially aided by a democratic revolutionary named Miyazaki Toten. Most Japanese who actively worked with Sun were motivated by a pan-Asian fear of encroaching Western imperialism. While in Japan, Sun also met and befriended Mariano Ponce, then a diplomat of the First Philippine Republic. During the Philippine Revolution and the Philippine–American War, Sun helped Ponce procure weapons salvaged from the Imperial Japanese Army and ship the weapons to the Philippines. By helping the Philippine Republic, Sun hoped that the Filipinos would win their independence so that he could use the archipelago as a staging point of another revolution. However, as the war ended in July 1902, America emerged victorious from a bitter 3-year war against the Republic. Therefore, the Filipino dream of independence vanished with Sun's hopes of collaborating with the Philippines in his revolution in China.\n\nOn 22 October 1900, Sun launched the Huizhou uprising to attack Huizhou and provincial authorities in Guangdong. This came five years after the failed Guangzhou uprising. This time, Sun appealed to the triads for help. This uprising was also a failure. Miyazaki, who participated in the revolt with Sun, wrote an account of this revolutionary effort under the title \"33-year dream\" () in 1902.\n\nSun was in exile not only in Japan but also in Europe, the United States, and Canada. He raised money for his revolutionary party and to support uprisings in China. While the events leading up to it are unclear, in 1896 Sun Yat-sen was detained at the Chinese Legation in London, where the Chinese Imperial secret service planned to kill him. He was released after 12 days through the efforts of James Cantlie, \"The Globe\", \"The Times\", and the Foreign Office, leaving Sun a hero in Britain. James Cantlie, Sun's former teacher at the Hong Kong College of Medicine for Chinese, maintained a lifelong friendship with Sun and would later write an early biography of Sun.\n\nA \"Heaven and Earth Society\" sect known as Tiandihui had been around for a long time. The group has also been referred to as the \"three cooperating organizations\" as well as the triads. Sun Yat-sen mainly used this group to leverage his overseas travels to gain further financial and resource support for his revolution. According to the New York Times \"Sun Yat-sen left his village in Guangdong, southern China, in 1879 to join a brother in Hawaii. He eventually returned to China and from there moved to the British colony of Hong Kong in 1883. It was there that he received his Western education, his Christian faith and the money for revolution.\" This is where Sun Yat-sen realized that China needed to change its ways. He knew that the only way that China would change and modernize would be to overthrow the Qing Dynasty.\n\nAccording to Lee Yun-ping, chairman of the Chinese historical society, Sun needed a certificate to enter the United States at a time when the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 would have otherwise blocked him. However, on Sun's first attempt to enter the US, he was still arrested. He was later bailed out after 17 days. In March 1904, while residing in Kula, Maui, Sun Yat-sen obtained a Certificate of Hawaiian Birth, issued by the Territory of Hawaii, stating that \"he was born in the Hawaiian Islands on the 24th day of November, A.D. 1870.\" He renounced it after it served its purpose to circumvent the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882. Official files of the United States show that Sun had United States nationality, moved to China with his family at age 4, and returned to Hawaii 10 years later.\n\nIn 1904, Sun Yat-sen came about with the goal \"to expel the Tatar barbarians (i.e. Manchu), to revive Zhonghua, to establish a Republic, and to distribute land equally among the people\" (). One of Sun's major legacies was the creation of his political philosophy of the Three Principles of the People. These Principles included the principle of nationalism (minzu, ), of democracy (minquan, ), and of welfare (minsheng, ).\n\nOn 20 August 1905, Sun joined forces with revolutionary Chinese students studying in Tokyo, Japan to form the unified group Tongmenghui (United League), which sponsored uprisings in China. By 1906 the number of Tongmenghui members reached 963 people.\n\nSun's notability and popularity extends beyond the Greater China region, particularly to Nanyang (Southeast Asia), where a large concentration of overseas Chinese resided in Malaya (Malaysia and Singapore). While in Singapore, he met local Chinese merchants Teo Eng Hock(張永福), Tan Chor Nam(陳楚楠) and Lim Nee Soon(林義順), which mark the commencement of direct support from the Nanyang Chinese. The Singapore chapter of the Tongmenghui was established on 6 April 1906. Though some records claim the founding date to be end of 1905. The villa used by Sun was known as Wan Qing Yuan. At this point Singapore was the headquarters of the Tongmenghui.\n\nThus, after founding the Tong Meng Hui, Dr Sun advocated the establishment of The Chong Shing Yit Pao as the alliance's mouthpiece to promote revolutionary ideas. Later, he initiated the establishment of reading clubs across Singapore and Malaysia, in order to disseminate revolutionary ideas among the lower class through public readings of newspaper stories. The United Chinese Library, founded on 8 August 1910, was one such reading club, first set up at leased property on the second floor of the Wan He Salt Traders in North Boat Quay.\n\nThe first actual United Chinese Library building was built between 1908 and 1911 below Fort Canning – 51 Armenian Street, commenced operations in 1912. The library was set up as a part of the 50 reading rooms by the Chinese Republicans to serve as an information station and liaison point for the revolutionaries. In 1987, the library was moved to its present site at Cantonment Road. But the Armenian Street building is still intact with the plaque at its entrance with Sun Yat Sen's words. With an initial membership of over 400, the library has about 180 members today. Although the United Chinese Library, with 102 years of history, was not the only reading club in Singapore during the time, today it is the only one of its kind remaining.\n\nIn 1903, Sun made a secret trip to Bangkok in which he sought funds for his cause in Southeast Asia. His loyal followers published newspapers, providing invaluable support to the dissemination of his revolutionary principles and ideals among Chinese descant in Thailand. In Bangkok, Sun visited Yaowarat Road, in Bangkok's Chinatown. It was on this street that Sun gave a speech claiming that overseas Chinese were \"the Mother of the Revolution\". He also met local Chinese merchants Seow Houtseng, whose sent financial support to him.\n\nSun's speech on Yaowarat street was commemorated by the street later being named \"Sun Yat Sen Street\" or \"Soi Sun Yat Sen\" () in his honour.\n\nOn 1 December 1907, Sun led the Zhennanguan uprising against the Qing at Friendship Pass, which is the border between Guangxi and Vietnam. The uprising failed after seven days of fighting. In 1907 there were a total of four uprisings that failed including Huanggang uprising, Huizhou seven women lake uprising and Qinzhou uprising. In 1908 two more uprisings failed one after another including Qin-lian uprising and Hekou uprising.\n\nBecause of these failures, Sun's leadership was challenged by elements from within the Tongmenghui who wished to remove him as leader. In Tokyo 1907–1908 members from the recently merged Restoration society raised doubts about Sun's credentials. Tao Chengzhang () and Zhang Binglin publicly denounced Sun with an open leaflet called \"A declaration of Sun Yat-sen's criminal acts by the revolutionaries in Southeast Asia\". This was printed and distributed in reformist newspapers like Nanyang Zonghui Bao. Their goal was to target Sun as a leader leading a revolt for profiteering gains.\n\nThe revolutionaries were polarized and split between pro-Sun and anti-Sun camps. Sun publicly fought off comments about how he had something to gain financially from the revolution. However, by 19 July 1910, the Tongmenghui headquarters had to relocate from Singapore to Penang to reduce the anti-Sun activities. It is also in Penang that Sun and his supporters would launch the first Chinese \"daily\" newspaper, the Kwong Wah Yit Poh in December 1910.\n\nTo sponsor more uprisings, Sun made a personal plea for financial aid at the Penang conference held on 13 November 1910 in Malaya. The leaders launched a major drive for donations across the Malay Peninsula. They raised HK$187,000.\n\nOn 27 April 1911, revolutionary Huang Xing led a second Guangzhou uprising known as the Yellow Flower Mound revolt against the Qing. The revolt failed and ended in disaster; the bodies of only 72 revolutionaries were found. The revolutionaries are remembered as martyrs.\n\nOn 10 October 1911, a military uprising at Wuchang took place led again by Huang Xing. At the time, Sun had no direct involvement as he was still in exile. Huang was in charge of the revolution that ended over 2000 years of imperial rule in China. When Sun learned of the successful rebellion against the Qing emperor from press reports, he returned to China from the United States accompanied by his closest foreign advisor, the American, \"General\" Homer Lea. He met Lea in London, where he and Lea unsuccessfully tried to arrange British financing for the new Chinese republic. Sun and Lea then sailed for China, arriving there on 21 December 1911.\n\nThe uprising expanded to the Xinhai Revolution also known as the \"Chinese Revolution\" to overthrow the last Emperor Puyi. After this event, 10 October became known as the commemoration of Double Ten Day.\nOn 29 December 1911 a meeting of representatives from provinces in Nanking (Nanjing) elected Sun Yat-sen as the \"provisional president\" (). 1 January 1912 was set as the first day of the First Year of the Republic. Li Yuanhong was made provisional vice-president and Huang Xing became the minister of the army. The new Provisional Government of the Republic of China was created along with the Provisional Constitution of the Republic of China. Sun is credited for the funding of the revolutions and for keeping the spirit of revolution alive, even after a series of failed uprisings. His successful merger of minor revolutionary groups to a single larger party provided a better base for all those who shared the same ideals. A number of things were introduced such as the republic calendar system and new fashion like Zhongshan suits.\n\nYuan Shikai, who controlled the Beiyang Army, the military of northern China, was promised the position of President of the Republic of China if he could get the Qing court to abdicate. On 12 February 1912 Emperor Puyi did abdicate the throne. Sun stepped down as President, and Yuan became the new provisional president in Beijing on 10 March 1912. The provisional government did not have any military forces of its own, its control over elements of the New Army that had mutinied was limited and there were still significant forces which still had not declared against the Qing.\n\nSun Yat-sen sent telegrams to the leaders of all provinces requesting them to elect and to establish the National Assembly of the Republic of China in 1912. In May 1912 the legislative assembly moved from Nanjing to Beijing with its 120 members divided between members of Tongmenghui and a Republican party that supported Yuan Shikai. Many revolutionary members were already alarmed by Yuan's ambitions and the northern based Beiyang government.\n\nTongmenghui member Song Jiaoren quickly tried to control the parliament. He mobilized the old Tongmenghui at the core with the merger of a number of new small parties to form a new political party called the Kuomintang (Chinese nationalist party, commonly abbreviated as \"KMT\") on 25 August 1912 at Huguang Guild Hall Beijing. The 1912–1913 National assembly election was considered a huge success for the KMT winning 269 of the 596 seats in the lower house and 123 of the 274 senate seats. The Second Revolution took place where Sun and KMT military forces tried to overthrow Yuan's forces of about 80,000 men in an armed conflict in July 1913. The revolt against Yuan was unsuccessful. Sun was forced to seek asylum in Japan with politician and industrialist Fusanosuke Kuhara. In retaliation the national party leader Song Jiaoren was assassinated, almost certainly by a secret order of Yuan, on 20 March 1913.\n\nIn 1915 Yuan Shikai proclaimed the Empire of China (1915–1916) with himself as Emperor of China. Sun took part in the Anti-Monarchy war of the Constitutional Protection Movement, while also supporting bandit leaders like Bai Lang during the Bai Lang Rebellion. This marked the beginning of the Warlord Era. In 1915 Sun wrote to the Second International, a socialist-based organization in Paris, asking it to send a team of specialists to help China set up the world's first socialist republic. At the time there were many theories and proposals of what China could be. In the political mess, both Sun Yat-sen and Xu Shichang were announced as President of the Republic of China.\n\nChina had become divided between different military leaders without a proper central government. Sun saw the danger of this and returned to China in 1917 to advocate Chinese reunification. In 1921 he started a self-proclaimed military government in Guangzhou and was elected Grand Marshal. Between 1912 and 1927 three governments had been set up in South China: the Provisional government in Nanjing (1912), the Military government in Guangzhou (1921–1925), and the National government in Guangzhou and later Wuhan (1925–1927). The southern separatist government in the South was established to rival the Beiyang government in the north. Yuan Shikai had banned the KMT. The short lived Chinese Revolutionary Party was a temporary replacement for the KMT. On 10 October 1919 Sun resurrected the KMT with the new name Chung-kuo Kuomintang (), or the \"Nationalist Party of China\".\n\nBy this time Sun had become convinced that the only hope for a unified China lay in a military conquest from his base in the south, followed by a period of political tutelage that would culminate in the transition to democracy. In order to hasten the conquest of China, he began a policy of active cooperation with the Communist Party of China (CPC). Sun and the Soviet Union's Adolph Joffe signed the Sun-Joffe Manifesto in January 1923. Sun received help from the Comintern for his acceptance of communist members into his KMT. Revolutionary and socialist leader Vladimir Lenin praised Sun and the KMT for their ideology and principles. Lenin praised Sun and his attempts at social reformation, and also congratulated him for fighting foreign Imperialism. Sun also returned the praise, calling him a \"great man\", and sent his congratulations on the revolution in Russia.\n\nWith the Soviets' help, Sun was able to develop the military power needed for the Northern Expedition against the military at the north. He established the Whampoa Military Academy near Guangzhou with Chiang Kai-shek as the commandant of the National Revolutionary Army (NRA). Other Whampoa leaders include Wang Jingwei and Hu Hanmin as political instructors. This full collaboration was called the First United Front.\n\nIn 1924 Sun appointed his brother-in-law T. V. Soong to set up the first Chinese Central bank called the Canton Central Bank. To establish national capitalism and a banking system was a major objective for the KMT. However Sun was not without some opposition as there was the Canton volunteers corps uprising against him.\n\nIn February 1923 Sun made a presentation to the Students' Union in Hong Kong University and declared that it was the corruption of China and the peace, order and good government of Hong Kong that turned him into a revolutionary. This same year, he delivered a speech in which he proclaimed his Three Principles of the People as the foundation of the country and the Five-Yuan Constitution as the guideline for the political system and bureaucracy. Part of the speech was made into the National Anthem of the Republic of China.\n\nOn 10 November 1924, Sun traveled north to Tianjin and delivered a speech to suggest a gathering for a \"national conference\" for the Chinese people. It called for the end of warlord rules and the abolition of all unequal treaties with the Western powers. Two days later, he traveled to Beijing to discuss the future of the country, despite his deteriorating health and the ongoing civil war of the warlords. Among the people he met was the Muslim General Ma Fuxiang, who informed Sun that they would welcome his leadership. On 28 November 1924 Sun traveled to Japan and gave a at Kobe, Japan.\n\nFor many years, it was popularly believed that Sun died of liver cancer. On 26 January 1925, Sun underwent an exploratory laparotomy at Peking Union Medical College Hospital (PUMCH) to investigate a long-term illness. This was performed by the head of the Department of Surgery, Adrian S. Taylor, who stated that the procedure \"revealed extensive involvement of the liver by carcinoma\" and that Sun only had about ten days to live. Sun was hospitalized and his condition was treated with radium.\n\nFollowing this the body then was preserved in mineral oil and taken to the Temple of Azure Clouds, a Buddhist shrine in the Western Hills a few miles outside of Beijing. He also left a () penned by Wang Jingwei, which had a widespread influence in the subsequent development of the Republic of China and Taiwan.\n\nIn 1926, construction began on a majestic mausoleum at the foot of Purple Mountain in Nanjing, and this was completed in the spring of 1929. On 1 June 1929, Sun's remains were moved from Beijing and interred in the Sun Yat-sen Mausoleum.\n\nBy pure chance, in May 2016, an American pathologist named Rolf F. Barth was visiting the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall in Guangzhou when he noticed a faded copy of the original autopsy report on display. The autopsy was performed immediately after Sun's death by James Cash, a pathologist at PUMCH. Based on a tissue sample, Cash concluded that the cause of death was an adenocarcinoma in the gallbladder that had metastasized to the liver. In modern China, liver cancer is far more common than gallbladder cancer and although the incidence rates of either in 1925 are not known, if one assumes that they were similar at that time, then the original diagnosis by Taylor was a logical conclusion. From the time of Sun's death until the appearance of Barth's report in the \"Chinese Journal of Cancer\" in September 2016 (now known as \"Cancer Communications\" since March 1, 2018), the true cause of death of Sun Yat-sen was not reported in any English-language publication. Even in Chinese-language sources, it only appeared in one non-medical online report in 2013.\n\nAfter Sun's death, a power struggle between his young protégé Chiang Kai-shek and his old revolutionary comrade Wang Jingwei split the KMT. At stake in this struggle was the right to lay claim to Sun's ambiguous legacy. In 1927 Chiang Kai-shek married Soong Mei-ling, a sister of Sun's widow Soong Ching-ling, and subsequently he could claim to be a brother-in-law of Sun. When the Communists and the Kuomintang split in 1927, marking the start of the Chinese Civil War, each group claimed to be his true heirs, a conflict that continued through World War II. Sun's widow, Soong Ching-ling, sided with the Communists during the Chinese Civil War and served from 1949 to 1981 as Vice-President (or Vice-Chairwoman) of the People's Republic of China and as Honorary President shortly before her death in 1981.\n\nA personality cult in the Republic of China was centered on Sun and his successor, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. Chinese Muslim Generals and Imams participated in this cult of personality and one party state, with Muslim General Ma Bufang making people bow to Sun's portrait and listen to the national anthem during a Tibetan and Mongol religious ceremony for the Qinghai Lake God. Quotes from the Quran and Hadith were used among Hui Muslims to justify Chiang Kai-shek's rule over China.\n\nThe Kuomintang's constitution designated Sun as party president. After his death, the Kuomintang opted to keep that language in its constitution to honor his memory forever. The party has since been headed by a director-general (1927–1975) and a chairman (since 1975), which discharge the functions of the president.\n\nSun Yat-sen remains unique among 20th-century Chinese leaders for having a high reputation both in mainland China and in Taiwan. In Taiwan, he is seen as the Father of the Republic of China, and is known by the posthumous name \"Father of the Nation, Mr. Sun Zhongshan\" (, where the one-character space is a traditional homage symbol). His likeness is still almost always found in ceremonial locations such as in front of legislatures and classrooms of public schools, from elementary to senior high school, and he continues to appear in new coinage and currency.\n\nOn the mainland, Sun is seen as a Chinese nationalist, proto-socialist, first president of a Republican China and is highly regarded as the \"Forerunner of the Revolution\" (). He is even mentioned by name in the to the Constitution of the People's Republic of China. In recent years, the leadership of the Communist Party of China has increasingly invoked Sun, partly as a way of bolstering Chinese nationalism in light of Chinese economic reform and partly to increase connections with supporters of the Kuomintang on Taiwan which the PRC sees as allies against Taiwan independence. Sun's tomb was one of the first stops made by the leaders of both the Kuomintang and the People First Party on their pan-blue visit to mainland China in 2005. A massive portrait of Sun continues to appear in Tiananmen Square for May Day and National Day.\n\nSun is venerated as a Saint in Đạo Cao Đài, a religion established in Vietnam in 1926. He, along with the two other Saints Victor Hugo and Nguyễn Bỉnh Khiêm, represented mankind to declare the Alliance (peaceful treaty) with God.\n\nSun Yat-sen was born to Sun Dacheng () and his wife, lady Yang () on 12 November 1866. At the time his father was age 53, while his mother was 38 years old. He had an older brother, Sun Dezhang (), and an older sister, Sun Jinxing (), who died at the early age of 4. Another older brother, Sun Deyou (), died at the age of 6. He also had an older sister, Sun Miaoqian (), and a younger sister, Sun Qiuqi ().\n\nAt age 20, Sun had an arranged marriage with fellow villager Lu Muzhen. She bore a son, Sun Fo, and two daughters, Sun Jinyuan () and Sun Jinwan (). Sun Fo was the grandfather of Leland Sun, who spent 37 years working in Hollywood as an actor and stuntman. Sun Yat-sen was also the godfather of Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger, American author and poet who wrote under the name Cordwainer Smith.\n\nSun's first concubine, the Hong Kong-born Chen Cuifen, lived in Taiping, Perak, Malaysia for 17 years. The couple adopted a local girl as their daughter. Cuifen subsequently relocated to China, where she passed away.\n\nOn 25 October 1915 in Japan, Sun married Soong Ching-ling, one of the Soong sisters, Soong Ching-Ling's father was the American-educated Methodist minister Charles Soong, who made a fortune in banking and in printing of Bibles. Although Charles Soong had been a personal friend of Sun's, he was enraged when Sun announced his intention to marry Ching-ling because while Sun was a Christian he kept two wives, Lu Muzhen and Kaoru Otsuki; Soong viewed Sun's actions as running directly against their shared religion.\n\nSoong Ching-Ling's sister, Soong Mei-ling, later married Chiang Kai-shek.\n\nIn most major Chinese cities one of the main streets is named \"Zhongshan Lu\" () to celebrate his memory. There are also numerous parks, schools, and geographical features named after him. Xiangshan, Sun's hometown in Guangdong, was renamed Zhongshan in his honor, and there is a hall dedicated to his memory at the Temple of Azure Clouds in Beijing. There are also a series of Sun Yat-sen stamps.\n\nOther references to Sun include the Sun Yat-sen University in Guangzhou and National Sun Yat-sen University in Kaohsiung. Other structures include Sun Yat-sen Mausoleum, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall subway station, Sun Yat-sen house in Nanjing, Dr. Sun Yat-sen Museum in Hong Kong, Chung-Shan Building, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall in Guangzhou, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall in Taipei and Sun Yat Sen Nanyang Memorial Hall in Singapore. Zhongshan Memorial Middle School has also been a name used by many schools. Zhongshan Park is also a common name used for a number of places named after him. The first highway in Taiwan is called the Sun Yat-sen expressway. Two ships are also named after him, the Chinese gunboat Chung Shan and Chinese cruiser Yat Sen. The old Chinatown in Calcutta (now known as Kolkata), India has a prominent street by the name of Sun Yat-sen street. There are also two streets named after Sun Yat-sen, located in the cities of Astrakhan and Ufa, Russia.\n\nIn George Town, Penang, Malaysia, the Penang Philomatic Union had its premises at 120 Armenian Street in 1910, during the time when Sun spent more than four months in Penang, convened the historic \"Penang Conference\" to launch the fundraising campaign for the Huanghuagang Uprising and founded the \"Kwong Wah Yit Poh\"; this house, which has been preserved as the Sun Yat-sen Museum (formerly called the Sun Yat Sen Penang Base), was visited by President designate Hu Jintao in 2002. The Penang Philomatic Union subsequently moved to a bungalow at 65 Macalister Road which has been preserved as the Sun Yat-sen Memorial Centre Penang.\n\nAs dedication, the 1966 Chinese Cultural Renaissance was launched on Sun's birthday on 12 November.\n\nThe Nanyang Wan Qing Yuan in Singapore have since been preserved and renamed as the Sun Yat Sen Nanyang Memorial Hall. A Sun Yat-sen heritage trail was also launched on 20 November 2010 in Penang.\n\nSun's US citizen Hawaii birth certificate that show he was not born in the ROC, but instead born in the US was on public display at the American Institute in Taiwan on US Independence day 4 July 2011.\n\nA street in Medan, Indonesia is named \"Jalan Sun Yat-Sen\" in honour of him.\n\nSt. John's University in New York City has a facility built in 1973, the Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hall, built to resemble a traditional Chinese building in honor of Sun. Dr. Sun Yat-Sen Classical Chinese Garden is located in Vancouver, the largest classical Chinese gardens outside of Asia. There is the Dr. Sun Yat-sen Memorial Park in Chinatown, Honolulu. On the island of Maui, there is the little Sun Yat-sen Park at Kamaole. It is located near to where his older brother had a ranch on the slopes of Haleakala in the Kula region.\n\nIn Chinatown, Los Angeles, there is a seated statue of him in Central Plaza. In Sacramento, California there is a bronze statue of Sun in front of the Chinese Benevolent Association of Sacramento. Another statue of Sun Yat-sen by Joe Rosenthal can be found at Riverdale Park in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. There is also the Moscow Sun Yat-sen University. In Chinatown, San Francisco, there is a 12-foot statue of him on St. Mary's Square.\n\nIn late 2011, the Chinese Youth Society of Melbourne, in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Republic of China, unveiled, in a Lion Dance Blessing ceremony, a memorial statue of Sun outside the Chinese Museum in Melbourne's Chinatown, on the spot where their traditional Chinese New Year Lion Dance always ends.\n\nIn 1993 Lily Sun, one of Sun Yat-sen's granddaughters, donated books, photographs, artwork and other memorabilia to the Kapi'olani Community College library as part of the \"Sun Yat-sen Asian collection\". During October and November every year the entire collection is shown. In 1997 the \"Dr Sun Yat-sen Hawaii foundation\" was formed online as a virtual library. In 2006 the NASA Mars Exploration Rover Spirit labeled one of the hills explored \"Zhongshan\".\n\nThe plaque shown earlier in this article is by Dora Gordine, and is situated on the site of Sun's lodgings in London in 1896, 8 Grays Inn Place. There is also a blue plaque commemorating Sun at The Kennels, Cottered, Hertfordshire, the country home of the Cantlies where Sun came to recuperate after his rescue from the legation in 1896.\n\nA street named Sun Yat-Sen Avenue is located in Markham, Ontario. This is the first such street name outside of Asia.\n\n\"Dr. Sun Yat-sen\" () is a 2011 Chinese-language western-style opera in three acts by the New York-based American composer Huang Ruo who was born in China and is a graduate of Oberlin College's Conservatory as well as the Juilliard School. The libretto was written by Candace Mui-ngam Chong, a recent collaborator with playwright David Henry Hwang. It was performed in Hong Kong in October 2011 and will be given its North American premiere on 26 July 2014 at The Santa Fe Opera.\n\nThe life of Sun is portrayed in various films, mainly \"The Soong Sisters\" and \"Road to Dawn\". A fictionalized assassination attempt on his life was featured in \"Bodyguards and Assassins\". He is also portrayed during his struggle to overthrow the Qing dynasty in \"Once Upon a Time in China II\". The TV series \"Towards the Republic\" features Ma Shaohua as Sun Yat-sen. In the 100th anniversary tribute of the film \"1911\", Winston Chao played Sun. In , one of the starships of the China Navy is named the \"Sun Yat-sen\".\n\nIn 2010 a theatrical play \"Yellow Flower on Slopes\" () was created and performed.\nIn 2011 there is also a Mandopop group called \"Zhongsan Road 100\" () known for singing the song \"Our Father of the Nation\" ().\n\nAt one time CPC general secretary and PRC president Jiang Zemin claimed Sun Yat-sen had a \"New Three Principles of the People\" () which consisted of \"working with the soviets, working with the communists and helping the farmers\" (). Lily Sun said the CPC was distorting Sun's legacy in 2001. She then voiced her displeasure in 2002 in a private letter to Jiang about the distortion of history. In 2008 Jiang Zemin was willing to offer US$10 million to sponsor a Xinhai Revolution anniversary celebration event. According to \"Ming Pao\" she could not take the money because she would no longer have the freedom to communicate the revolution. This concept is still currently available on Baike Baidu.\n\nIn 1981 Lily Sun took a trip to Sun Yat-sen mausoleum in Nanjing, People's Republic of China. The emblem of the KMT had been removed from the top of his sacrificial hall at the time of her visit, but was later restored. On another visit in May 2011, she was surprised to find the four characters \"General Rules of Meetings\" (), a document that Sun wrote in reference to Robert's Rules of Order had been removed from a stone carving.\n\nIn November 2004 the ROC Ministry of Education proposed that Sun Yat-sen was not the father of Taiwan. Instead Sun was a foreigner from mainland China. Taiwanese Education minister Tu Cheng-sheng and Examination Yuan member , both of whom supported the proposal, had their portraits pelted with eggs in protest. At a Sun Yat-sen statue in Kaohsiung, a 70-year-old ROC retired soldier committed suicide as a way to protest the ministry proposal on the anniversary of Sun's birthday 12 November.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4673761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4673761", "title": "Susana Villarán", "text": "Susana Villarán\n\nSusana María del Carmen Villarán de la Puente is a centre-left politician in Peru, a former presidential candidate, and in municipal elections in 2010 became the first woman to be elected Mayor of Lima.\n\nShe is vice-president of the Social Force Decentralisation Party (\"\", FS) and formerly worked as a journalist and a secondary school teacher.\n\nBorn in Lima on 16 August 1949. She was the first daughter and the second of the seven children of Fernando Villarán Duany and Josefina de la Puente y Lavalle. Villarán studied at \"L'École Nouvelle\" of Miraflores and Colegio Sagrados Corazones Chalet of Chorrillos. \n\nShe was a member of Lima's Metropolitan Municipality from 1983 to 1985, and co-founded with former mayor Alfonso Barrantes Lingán the \"Vaso de leche\" (glass of milk) program promoting child nutrition.\n\nIn 1995 Villarán was elected national co-ordinator of the Party for Social Democracy (\"Partido por la Democracia Social - Compromiso Perú\", PDS). She became Minister for Women and Social Development during Valentín Paniagua's transitory government in 2001, and in 2002 she assumed the role of Police Ombudsman (\"Defensora de la Policía\").\n\nFrom 2002 to 2005, she served as a member of the Organization of American States's Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR), serving as rapporteur on child rights and later on women's rights, as Second Vicepresident of the Commission in 2004, and First Vicepresident in 2005. She took part in IACHR human rights and conflict missions in Colombia and Guatemala. \n\nIn the Peruvian general election of 2006 Villarán was presidential candidate for Concertación Descentralista, an alliance of the PDS and the Peruvian Humanist Movement. She was one of three female candidates along Lourdes Flores and Martha Chávez, and came seventh with 0.62%.\n\nIn 2008, she was elected to the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child.\n\nIn 2009 she announced her candidacy for Mayor of Lima as leader of the Social Force Decentralisation Party (FS), which had been formed by the merger of the PDS and eight other centre-left parties in October 2007. Her candidature was backed by three smaller centre-left groups.\n\nAfter a slow start to her campaign, in the final weeks Villarán overtook the longtime favourite candidate Lourdes Flores to win with 1,743,712 votes, representing 38.393% of the valid votes. She assumed office in January 2011.\n\nThere was a referendum held to recall her from office, which was held on March 17, 2013. She survived the recall but 20 members - including spokesperson against her recall Marisa Glave - of the city council were recalled. However, she lost her 2014 re-election bid to former mayor Luis Castañeda Lossio, who took office on January 1 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50059466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50059466", "title": "The Menhaden Chanteymen", "text": "The Menhaden Chanteymen\n\nThe Menhaden Chanteymen is a musical group based out of Carteret County, North Carolina. They are a group of retired African-American commercial fishermen who publicly perform the work songs they used when hauling nets. \n\nTheir work draws from the genres of hymns, gospel, blues, and barbershop quartet songs. In 1990 the Menhaden Chanteymen recorded a collection of maritime work songs, \"Won't You Help Me to Raise 'Em: Authentic Net Hauling Songs from an African-American Fishery,\" for Global Village Music.\n\nThe group won a 1991 North Carolina Folk Heritage Award in the category of Folk/Traditional Music.\n"}
{"id": "49672212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49672212", "title": "Third country resettlement", "text": "Third country resettlement\n\nThird country resettlement or refugee resettlement is, according to the UNHCR, one of three durable solutions (voluntary repatriation and local integration being the other two) for refugees who fled their home country. Resettled refugees may also be referred to as quota or contingent refugees, as countries only take a certain number of refugees each year. In 2016 there were 65.6 million forcibly displaced people worldwide and around 190,000 of them were resettled into a third country.\n\n\nPrecondition for resettlement is to be registered as a refugee with the UNHCR and to have undergone the Refugee Status Determination (RSD) process based on the 1951 Refugee Convention refugee definition. Among those refugees the UNHCR or other organisations (e.g. RefugePoint or HIAS) make referrals for resettlement if they identify a high level of risk and vulnerability whilst being in the first country of asylum. Refugees cannot apply for resettlement themselves. Selection procedures can vary between UNHCR offices but the below criteria are generally used:\n\nIf one or more of these criteria are met it still needs to be assessed whether third country resettlement is the most appropriate durable solution compared to voluntary return and local integration. After the refugees are referred for resettlement and agree to be resettled they are suggested to suitable countries that run resettlement programmes. Each participating government can select from the referrals and refugees themselves cannot choose their country of resettlement. Even though receiving countries should not select refugees according to their own criteria, it may be that societal and political desires influence which groups of refugees are received. Countries make their decisions based on either just a dossier or following an interview with the refugee.\n\nIt is also possible for multiple refugees to be submitted for resettlement if they share specific circumstances, such as similar reasons for their flight and no prospects of return. Examples for group resettlement were the Lost Boys of Sudan from Kenya, Liberians from Guinea and Sierra Leone, Burundians from Tanzania and Eritreans from Ethiopia and Saudi Arabia.\n\nReceiving countries tend to use their own criteria for selecting refugees for resettlement. Many governments prioritise women and complete families and deprioritise single males. This happens in order to minimise potential security risks.\n\nEven the UNHCR resettlement officers who submit refugees' dossiers to potential receiving countries may themselves bias the selection. For example, it was revealed that UNHCR staff in Nairobi extorted money from refugees for resettlement places. Apart from that, large families are more likely to be considered for resettlement than singles, because resettlement officers have to work through fewer case files per submitted person when referring large families. Also single men, who are likely to receive a more thorough and time consuming security screening from resettlement states, are less likely to be submitted.\n\nTo be referred for resettlement may involve a tedious game with refugee chairmen, agency personnel or security guards. Chairmen can help making up stories or can ignore real security issues. The refugees themselves may manipulate the selection process. They may not mention that they have recently married in order not to delay their departure or they make themselves younger or older in order to, putatively, increase their chances for resettlement. They may even exaggerate their level of vulnerability as has been noticed in Kakuma: men staged violent attacks on themselves or their dwellings and women pretended rapes; they may be hiding their military or rebel past, or change their ethnicity, in order to belong to a certain persecuted group.\n\nThere are three stages of the resettlement journey: Pre-departure happens from their country of origin, departure is the during the process of resettlement and post-arrival happens in their new country.\n\nAfter the selection process is completed there may be additional government interviews and security checks, followed by health assessments and a cultural orientation training. The latter should emphasise on the potential challenges for refugees in the receiving country. The cultural orientation trainings do not always happen and they differ in duration and depth. The Gateway Resettlement Programme for example, used to provide two weeks of cultural orientation when it was launched in 2004; however this has shrunk to three hours in 2016. In addition to helping refugees begin to prepare for life in a new country, cultural orientation can also contribute to the uncertainty and stress associated with resettlement.\n\nRefugees are assisted to travel into the receiving country, usually by airplane. From being selected for resettlement to actually arriving in the US, it usually takes between 18–24 months. Refugees who are resettled in the US have to pay back a loan for their flight tickets which is provided by the International Organization for Migration (IOM).\n\nIn certain circumstances, where refugees have to be evacuated immediately from life-threatening situations in the first country of asylum, they can be brought to Emergency Transit Centres (ETC). These provide a temporary safe haven before receiving countries are ready to take them. The Timișoara Emergency Transit Centre in Romania, that opened in 2008, was Europe’s first evacuation centre. The Humenné Emergency Transit Centre in Slovakia was opened in 2009. However, these ETCs together can only accommodate up to 300 people.\n\nIOM staff escorts the refugees to the receiving country and can provide a medical escort, if needed. As most refugees have no experience of air travel, the escort assists them with the preparation for the travel and with the journey itself, guiding and monitoring them throughout the journey and until they are handed over to the post-arrival service of the receiving country.\n\nRefugees are met at the airport and get immediate integration and orientation support in most countries. Upon arrival in the country refugees have the right to reside in the country and do not need to apply for asylum. Refugees who are resettled to the US have to pay rent after six months. Once a refugee is resettled in a third country the main focus is to help them become self-sufficient.\n\nIn 2012 there were 26 third countries which run specific and ongoing resettlement programmes in co-operation with the UNHCR. The largest programmes are run by the United States, Canada and Australia. A number of European countries run smaller schemes and in 2004 the United Kingdom established its own scheme, known as the Gateway Protection Programme with an initial annual quota of 750. The smallest is run by Japan which offers 30 resettlement places per year.\n\nIn September 2009, the European Commission unveiled plans for new Joint EU Resettlement Programme. The scheme would involve EU member states deciding together each year which refugees should be given priority. Member states would receive €4,000 from the European Refugee Fund per refugee resettled.\n\nHalf of the refugees who are resettled each year went to the United States. The United States helped resettle roughly 2 million refugees between 1945 and 1979, when their refugee resettlement program was restructured. In the U.S. no other travelers undergo such rigorous security screening compared to refugees trying to enter the country and they are screened by six different federal agencies. The average time it takes from the referral to the arrival of a refugee is 18 to 24 months.  \n\nThe number of refugees resettled to the US is limited by an annual ceiling that the president determines each fiscal year(FY). There is usually around 60,000 to 90,000 refugees resettled each fiscal year. This year (FY 2018) the number is set at 45,000 which is the lowest it has been in history after the brief period after 9/11. \n\nThey now make use of 11 \"Voluntary Agencies\" (VOLAGS), which are non-governmental organizations that assist the government in the resettlement process. These organizations assist the refugees with the day-to-day needs of the large transition into a completely new culture. Usually, they are not funded by the government, but instead rely on their own resources and volunteers. Most of them have local offices, and caseworkers that provide individualized aid to each refugee's situation. They do rely on the sponsorship of individuals or groups, such as faith-based congregations or local organizations. The largest of the VOLAGS is the Migration and Refugee Services of the U.S. Catholic Conference. Others include Church World Service, Episcopal Migration Ministries, the Ethiopian Community Development Council, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, the International Rescue Committee, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants, and World Relief.\n\nThere are a number of advantages to the strategy of using agencies other than the government to directly assist in resettlement. First of all, it has been estimated that for a federal or state bureaucracy to resettle refugees instead of the VOLAGS would double the overall cost. These agencies are often able to procure large quantities of donations and, more importantly, volunteers. According to one study, when the fact that resettlement workers often have to work nights, weekends, and overtime in order to meet the demands of the large cultural transition of new refugees is taken into account, the use of volunteers reduces the overall cost down to roughly a quarter. VOLAGS are also more flexible and responsive than the government since they are smaller and rely on their own funds.\n\nAround 1,100 refugees, mainly Colombians, were resettled within South America between 2005 and 2014 through the \"Solidarity Resettlement Programme\". However, as many refugees expected to be resettled to the US or Europe 22% of them left again, possibly returning to the country of first asylum or the country of origin.\n\nIn 2011 the combined quota of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay together was 230 resettlement places.\n\nIn terms of resettlement \"departures\", in 2008, 65,548 refugees were resettled in 26 countries, up from 49,868 in 2007. The largest number of UNHCR-assisted departures were from Thailand (16,807), Nepal (8,165), Syria (7,153), Jordan (6,704) and Malaysia (5,865). Note that these are the countries that refugees were resettled from, not their countries of origin.\n"}
{"id": "12787249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12787249", "title": "Trezenzonio", "text": "Trezenzonio\n\nTrezenzonio was a Galician monk who lived in times of the Asturian monarchy. Tradition attributes the deed of seeing and even visiting one of the islands of Paradise to him. His adventures were summoned in the \"Trezenzonii de Solistitionis Insula Magna\", a medieval manuscript written in Latin in the 12th century.\n\nAfter Galicia was once again plundered by one of the multiple raids with which the Muslims devastated the region in the 8th century, Trezenzonio went to the Tower of Hercules in A Coruña. There he took a look at the sea, where with the help of the first lights of the daning he could see the Great Isle of Solstice (\"Magna Insula Solistitialis\"), which was consecrated to Saint Thecla (\"Santa Tecla\"). He decided to sail to that place and after having landed in that island he saw an immense prairie where a great basilica stood up, decorated with jewels and gems. In that island, the weather was delicious and there was plenty of food. Pain, hunger, fear and misfortunes were absent. Trezenzonio remained there for seven years after which an angel appeared to him and commanded him to return to Galicia.\n\nBecause he resisted the divine orders, he was punished with lepra and had to witness powerless how the proofs of the existence of the Great Isle of Solstice that he had collected on his ship rotted. Trezenzonio repented of his actions. After landing in Galicia, he walked to the city of Tui, where he met the local bishop, Adelfio.\n\n"}
{"id": "40961932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40961932", "title": "Yi In-hwa", "text": "Yi In-hwa\n\nYi In-hwa (; born January 5, 1966) is a South Korean writer, literary critic and professor.\n\nYi was born Lyou Chul-gyun in Daegu in 1966. When young, he was inspired by his father, a professor of Korean Language and Literature at Kyungpook National University, to become a novelist one day. During his high school years, Yi won awards for various national creative writing competitions. However, after entering college, he changed his career path to become a literary critic. There, he made his debut in 1988 with a critical essay called “Study of Yang Guija” (Yang Guija ron) which was published in Literature and Society, a Korean quarterly literary magazine. After this, he was editor for a couple of literary magazines. Several years later, he published his first novel, \"Who Is It That Can Tell Me Who I Am\" (1992), ultimately becoming a novelist. His pen name, Yi In-hwa, is a character from Korean classical novel writer Yom Sang-seop's work, \"Before the Cries of 'Manse\"' (1922).\n\nYi first started his career in 1995 as Korean Literature Professor at Ewha Womans University in central Seoul before getting his Ph.D. After spending 10 years in the department of Korean Literature, he changed his concentration to digital storytelling, becoming professor of Division of Digital Media at Ewha Womans University.\n\nYi was attracted to the field of digital storytelling in that he started to get addicted to MMORPG. He frequently stated that he was a huge fan of MMORPG Lineage. He applied his creative writing theories to digital storytelling mainly targeted to games. He is considered to be a pioneer in the Korean digital storytelling field.\n\nIn 2016, Yi became embroiled in the Choi Soon-sil scandal when it was alleged that Yi helped Choi Soon-sil's daughter pass a class she never attended, including having his assistants take a final exam for her. He was arrested on January 3.\n\nAs can be deduced from its title which is taken from Hamlet, \"Who Can Tell Me Who I Am\" (1992) depicts the madness of 1980s Korea and questions whether anyone was able to find his true self in that era. Yi's critical attitude toward the 80s may be a necessary step before ushering in 1990s literature, but it has often been criticized for its one-dimensional belittlement of a painful era in Korean modern history.\n\nYi was an unusual author for the era in that he was a supporter of the Park Chung-hee regime and in his novel \"The Path of Human\"(1997-1998) presented Park as an unequivocal hero, a stance that quickly caught the attention of the press. As a member of the so-called 3-8-6 Generation in Korea, Park would have been expected to be anti-dictator and pro-democracy, but he was not. The book sparked huge controversy among Korean intellectuals, making Yi one of the ultra-conservative novelists. Recently, he is depicted as a rather progressive figure because of his ardent opposition to Korean ruling Saenuri Party's online game regulation act.\n\n\"Everlasting Empire\" (1993), modeled after Umberto Eco’s \"The Name of the Rose\", borrows elements of a detective novel in tracing the mystery surrounding the death of Prince Sado and his son King Jeongjo. An entertaining novel with potential for mass appeal, \"Everlasting Empire\" was also embroiled in much controversy due to the author's over-interpretation of history and the conservative statements he made. Yi's works, in general, shows a strong political leaning: at times, it is as though the author borrows the pages of his own novel to express his political views and promote the awareness of certain socio-political and historical issues. This book is one of Yi's notable works, being million seller nationwide.\n\nHis latest fiction, \"Inferno 9\" (2012), was originally developed for the online game under the same name. The book is about intellectually intensified humans going inside a dream world to solve a mystery. The relationship between the real world and dream world is thoroughly described in the story, combined with his fantastic creativity inspired from games.\n\n\n\n\nYi and his team under the support of NCSOFT developed a scenario writing-helping software called 'Storyhelper' (2013). Its concept is similar to existing software such as Dramatica. The programs helps writers design the stories and examine how they are similar to existing stories. Storyhelper has accumulated and analyzed existing stories into 205 motives and about 120,000 factors from 1406 movies. Regarding the criticism of Storyhelper invading the writer's ability of being creative their own story, Yi explained that Storyhelper could not create the whole story for you, it just rather helps writers to design and conceive their stories in the first place.\n\n"}
