{"id": "47223994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47223994", "title": "1000-Word Philosophy", "text": "1000-Word Philosophy\n\n1000-Word Philosophy is an online philosophy anthology that publishes introductory 1000-word (or less) essays on philosophical topics.\nThe project was created in 2014 by Andrew D. Chapman, a philosophy lecturer at this university. Since 2018, the blog's editor-in-chief is Nathan Nobis, an associate professor of philosophy at Morehouse College. Many of the initial authors are graduates of the University of Colorado at Boulder's Ph.D. program in philosophy; now the contributors are from all over the globe. The essays include references or sources for more discussion of the essay's topic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38051313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051313", "title": "AP Physics 1", "text": "AP Physics 1\n\nAdvanced Placement (AP) Physics 1, along with AP Physics 2, is a year-long AP course whose first exam was given in 2015. The course is intended to proxy a one-semester algebra-based university course. Topics covered include forces and motion, conservation laws, waves, and electricity. \n\nThe heavily computational AP Physics B course served for four decades as the College Board's algebra-based offering. As part of the College Board's redesign of science courses, AP Physics B was discontinued and AP Physics 1 and 2 were created with guidance from the National Research Council and the National Science Foundation. The course covers material of a first-semester university undergraduate physics course offered at American universities that use best practices of physics pedagogy. The first AP Physics 1 classes had begun in the 2014-2015 school year, with the first AP exams administered in May 2015.\n\nAP Physics 1 is an algebra-based, introductory college-level physics course that includes topics such as Newtonian mechanics; work, energy, and power; mechanical waves and sound; and introductory, simple circuits. The College Board published a curriculum framework that includes seven big ideas on which the new AP Physics courses are based, along with \"enduring understandings\" students will be expected to acquire within each of the big ideas.:\n\nQuestions for the exam are constructed with direct reference to items in the curriculum framework. Student understanding of each topic is tested with reference to multiple skills -- that is, questions require students to use quantitative, semi-quantitative, qualitative, and experimental reasoning in each content area.\n\nThe exam score distributions since 2015 are as follows:\n\nThis AP course has the lowest average score and the lowest proportion of students that score a 5 out of all current AP subjects.\n\n"}
{"id": "24224315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24224315", "title": "Adi Cakobau School", "text": "Adi Cakobau School\n\nAdi Cakobau School in Fiji was founded in 1948 by the Fijian government as a boarding school to provide a \"refined\" intermediate education for Fijian girls of rank. It was named after the granddaughter of Seru Epenisa Cakobau, the King of Fiji who united the islands under his authority in 1871 and ceded the nation to the United Kingdom three years later. It became a full-fledged secondary school in 1954. Its English language curriculum included traditional academic subjects, traditional dance, music and crafts. Since a goal was to provide wives for leaders of the nation, the curriculum included \"chiefly protocol.\" The school moved to its present location in Sawani, Viti Levu in 1956. It is located at Ro Camaisala Road, next to Sawani Village, in the province of Naitasiri. The counterpart school for boys is Queen Victoria School. Most of the Fijian elite by 2001 had been students at one of these schools. Adi Cakobau School won the Coca-Cola Lite Games for the unprecedented twelfth time in a row on 28 April 2012.\n\nEntry to Form 3 (Year 9) is restricted to those achieving the highest marks in national examinations taken by pupils in their last year of primary school (Year 8).\n\nThe first principal in 1948 was Frances Lillian Charlton. The first Fijian principal was Taufa Vakatale. She was a pioneer girl at Adi Cakobau School and was later deputy prime minister of Fiji. The acting principal as of September 2009 was Laisa Mavoa.\n\nVocal music by the Adi Cakobau School choir was recorded in the 1950s and is in the collection of the British Library. The school entertained Elizabeth II and Prince Phillip in December 1953. The choir toured New Zealand in 1961–62 and Australia in 1973–74. Their performance of the traditional Fijian farewell song \"Isa Lei\" was included on \"The secret museum of mankind, vol. 1. Ethnic music classics: 1925–1948\" and was included in the soundtrack of the motion picture \"Open Water\".\n\nThe school's 60th anniversary was observed in October 2008 by the students and faculty, hundreds of alumnae, and Ratu Josefa Iloilo, president of Fiji.\n\nThe school achieved an overall pass rate of 95% for sixth and seventh formers in 2010. It had the continuous after some time with a little difference of 1%–2%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33914408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33914408", "title": "Archive of Performances of Greek and Roman Drama", "text": "Archive of Performances of Greek and Roman Drama\n\nThe Archive of Performances of Greek and Roman Drama (APGRD) is a research project based at the University of Oxford, England, founded in 1996 by Edith Hall and Oliver Taplin. The current Director is Fiona Macintosh.\n\nThe APGRD's focus is the study of performances of ancient drama and epic worldwide, ranging from the original performances in antiquity to the present day. It also runs a number of programmes promoting new writing and performance, including the 2005–2011 Onassis Programme, which commissioned, developed and produced professional work from artists from around the world, including Seamus Heaney and Derek Walcott.\n\nThe APGRD was praised by Oxford University for its engagement with authors, directors and other theatre practitioners, and was selected as one of the university's \"Impacts\" showcase projects for helping to \"sustain the distinctive and dynamic nature of the UK theatre\". The project’s publications have been described as playing \"a pivotal role in establishing the parameters and methodologies of the study of the reception of Classical drama in performance\".\n\nThe APGRD maintains and preserves a number of archival collections. The centrepiece is the APGRD's own research archive, a collection of material relating to modern performances of ancient drama. The APGRD also holds a number of other collections, including:\n\nIn addition, the APGRD's performance database has records covering more than 10,000 modern productions of ancient drama and epic.\n\nA number of books have been published under the auspices of the APGRD. These include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1094664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094664", "title": "Bourgeois pseudoscience", "text": "Bourgeois pseudoscience\n\nBourgeois pseudoscience () was a term of condemnation in the Soviet Union for certain scientific disciplines that were deemed unacceptable from an ideological point of view.\n\nAt various times pronounced \"bourgeois pseudosciences\" were: genetics, cybernetics, sociology, semiotics, and comparative linguistics. This attitude was most prevalent during the rule of Joseph Stalin.\n\n"}
{"id": "8440556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8440556", "title": "Canada Millennium Scholarship Foundation", "text": "Canada Millennium Scholarship Foundation\n\nThe Canada Millennium Scholarship Foundation was a private, independent organization created by an act of the Parliament of Canada in 1998. It received an initial endowment of $2.5 billion from the federal government to provide awards annually for ten years. The foundation distributed $325 million in the form of bursaries and scholarships each year throughout Canada in support of post-secondary education. As well, the foundation conducted research into post-secondary access, via the Millennium Research Program.\n\nThe Canada Millennium Scholarship Foundation was created by an Act of Parliament in 1998 by the then Liberal government under Jean Chrétien. Branded as Canada's way to marking the new millennium, the Foundation was endowed with CAD$2.5 billion and was given the mandate to 1) improve access to post-secondary education for all Canadians, especially those facing economic or social barriers, to 2) encourage a high level of student achievement and engagement in Canadian society; and to 3) build a national alliance of organizations and individuals around a shared post-secondary agenda.\n\nSince 2000, the Foundation delivered more than half a million bursaries and scholarships worth more than $1.5 billion to students across Canada. Its two best-known scholarship programs were:\n\nThe Millennium Bursary Program represented 95% of the awards distributed by the Foundation. The value of the Foundation's millennium bursaries was approximately $3,000 on average, but ranged from $1,000 to $4,993.\n\nThe Canada Millennium Scholarship Foundation also issued merit-based scholarships through its Millennium Excellence Awards Program to deserving youths entering post-secondary studies for the first time. Laureates of these awards all exhibited excellence in community involvement, innovation, leadership and academic achievement. The MEAP was unique because of its Canada-wide reach - whether a student lived in a major metropolitan area or in a remote village, anyone could apply and be evaluated based on their contribution to their community. Excellence Awards represented only 5% of the total scholarship sum awarded by the Foundation. More than 10,000 Excellence Awards were issued since 2000.\n\nThe MEAP provided laureates with more than a cheque. Laureates were invited to participate in regional or national conferences hosted by the Foundation. Laureates also had access to project seed money through the Millennium Grants Program.\n\nThe Excellence Awards were divided into two groups, the Entrance Awards geared towards students entering their first year of post-secondary education, and the In-Course Awards for those already enrolled in post-secondary studies.\n\nAs of 2008, there were three different levels of Entrance Awards:\n\n\nAs of 2008, there were three different level of In-Course Awards\n\n\nExceptional laureates were also allowed to apply for an additional Millennium grant of $2,500 towards a community building project.\n\nThe Millennium Research Program was launched in 2001 to assist the Canada Millennium Scholarship Foundation in carrying out its mandate to improve access to post-secondary education in Canada and provide students with the educational opportunities they need to prepare themselves for the future. The Research Program advanced the study of barriers to post-secondary education and the impact of policies and programs designed to alleviate them. It ensured that policy-making and public discussion about opportunities in higher education in Canada were informed by rigorous analysis and empirical evidence.\n\nIn February 2008, the federal government decided not to renew the CMSF at the end of its 10-year mandate. It was replaced with the Canada Student Grants Program, which will distribute $350 million per year to post-secondary education students. Much controversy has come to light since the government has announced this program, in which 250,000 students will now benefit per year, as opposed to the approximately 100,000 that are receiving money from the CMSF. Although the amount of money that the federal government will be putting towards post-secondary education has not changed dramatically, the average student award decreased from about $3000 per year to about $1250 per year.\n\nBefore the decision was made, Canada's two largest national post-secondary student organizations, the Canadian Federation of Students (CFS) and the Canadian Alliance of Student Associations (CASA), took dramatically different views on the fund's future. While CASA fully endorsed the foundation's renewal, on the basis that non-renewal would constitute a significant cut to student financial assistance, the CFS had called for the organization to be replaced with a system of grants based purely on financial need. After the announcement was made, the CFS noted that the new grant program was just \"splitting the same amount of grant money among more students\".\n\nThe Millennium Excellence Awards Program, the merit-based component of the scholarship program, was not renewed, thus ending one of the two Canada-wide merit scholarships in existence, with only the Loran Scholars Foundation remaining. However, as of 2009, alumni of the MEAP founded the Millennium Network, a non-profit organization that is part alumni association, part community action group that aims to help build capacity of existing community actors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30604514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30604514", "title": "Carmen Barradas", "text": "Carmen Barradas\n\nMaria del Carmen Perez Jimenez Barradas (18 March 1888 – 12 May 1963) was a Uruguayan pianist, composer, and choral teacher.\n\nMaria del Carmen Pérez Jiménez was born in Montevideo, the daughter of Spanish residents Santos Rojas and still life painter Antonio Pérez Giménez Barradas. She first studied with Antonio Frank, but ended the study after her father died in 1898. With support from friends and family, she later continued with Aurora Pablo and M. Lopes Vicente at the Conservatorio del Uruguay, receiving her diploma in 1915. Following the example of her younger brother, the painter Rafael Barradas, she adopted the stage name Carmen Barradas. Her youngest brother was writer and poet .\n\nAfter World War I, Rafael Barradas found he was unable to return from Spain to Uruguay, so in 1916 Barradas' family moved to Spain. The family struggled to get there, having to apply for entry as laborers. Once in Spain, Carmen and her mother supported themselves by making toys. However, Carmen also developed as a composer and actively participated in the artistic life of Barcelona. In 1917 she gave a concert of her own works.\n\nBarradas lived and composed in Spain until 1922, then returned with her family to Montevideo in 1928, where she took a position teaching at the Institutos Normales. During this period, she published a magazine for children called \"Andresillo\" which included cartoons and songs. Her works pioneered the use of non-traditional graphic notation and experimental techniques. Barradas produced her own works at the Teatro Solís in 1934 and ended her composing career in 1949. She died in Montevideo.\n\nAlthough her works were described as \"brilliant,\" her experimental direction was not well received in Uruguay during her lifetime. Many of her works were lost at her death. However, pianist and musicologist retained and interpreted some of the scores. About 170 partial and complete manuscripts are left.\n\nSelected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41833790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41833790", "title": "Cinematography in healthcare", "text": "Cinematography in healthcare\n\nThe concept of healthcare knowledge transfer using cinematography recognizes that films with carefully crafted and verified content, using graphics, animations and live-action video, can be one of the most efficient ways of transferring knowledge with clarity and speed, to both lay-people and healthcare professionals.\n\nThe use of cinematography to enhance healthcare practice and delivery dates back to the late 19th century in Western Europe. Étienne-Jules Marey (French scientist and physiologist), Eugène-Louis Doyen (French surgeon), Bolesław Matuszewski (Polish cameraman, in France his first name was written as Boleslas), and Gheorghe Marinescu (Romanian neurologist) are some of the pioneers of medical cinematography.\n\nIn 1888, Doyen had his surgeries captured on film. His films were brought into disrepute by the fact that they were copied and shown on fairgrounds. The resulting social prejudice may explain the slow take-off of medical cinematography. For example, in 1910 someone said the following regarding Doyen’s videos: ,“These pictures savoured of advertisement, and were never popular, save as a side show among the less scientifically inclined members of the profession.” Doyen’s work, however, marked the distinction between the concepts of ‘film for entertainment’ versus ‘film for medicine’.\n\nIn 1893 Marey used the technique to study human physiology and movement. In 1898 Boleslas Matuszewski recorded medical films in Paris (at the time, the world’s neurologic capital). At Salpêtrière and Pitié hospitals he filmed surgeries and cases of persons affected by nervous and mental disorders.\n\nGheorghe Marinescu (Romanian neurologist) studied under renowned French professor Jean-Martin Charcot and returned to Bucharest as Chief Physician at Pantelimon Hospital. Between 1898–1902 he conducted a cinematographic project, recording and analyzing a series of neurological conditions in patients. He perfected the application of filming techniques to clinical neurology and published five articles based on cinematographic analysis. Marinescu wrote that the role of cinematography is “to complement and even replace, in whatever measure possible, the descriptive exposition of phenomena by more rigorous, more exact analysis, which consists of recording movement with the help of special procedures” \n\nIn 1905 Arthur Van Gehuchten (Belgian anatomist and neurologist) began to film neurologic patients and built up a collection of films for teaching purposes. His collection is exceptional both quantitatively and qualitatively.\n\nIn 1910 Thomas Edison produced the first ever public health education film, raising awareness about the prevention of tuberculosis. The view at the time was that “propagandists saw education as limited to providing facts. Propaganda was designed to control opinions and actions, without having to use direct force. Propaganda appealed to most progressive health reformers as a way of providing genuine popular democratic support for the trained medical elite.\n\nDr. H. E. Kleinschmidt of the Tuberculosis Association defined good propaganda as ‘mental inoculation’ whose avowed goal was ‘will-control through education’. The goal of health propagandists was not simply to inform but to persuade, to control individual thoughts and actions.” \n\nEdison’s film came under criticism for “the distortions, exaggerations, and inaccuracies inherent in the melodrama format. The films clearly exaggerated the power of medicine to deal with tuberculosis; and they greatly over dramatized the effects and symptoms of the disease.” \n\nDuring World War I, the use of medical propaganda appealed to the US government and private agencies, which worked together “to produce and distribute anti-venereal disease motion pictures, including the feature-length melodramas Fit to Fight and The End of the Road and other lesser-known films. These movies, originally made for military trainees and war workers, were revised for showing to civilians, as evidence mounted that many soldiers had been infected prior to induction.” \n\nThe 1930s saw the rise of medical cinematography employed to reach goals of public health. In 1933, the Journal of Communication published an article regarding immunization propaganda in the US: “Dr. Nash has enlisted the cinematograph film. He has noticed that American films illustrating immunization never show the instant of puncture, so that spectators are left to infer something disagreeable. But in the 16 mm. film taken by Kodak Ltd. in his own clinic the whole operation is photographed, and although now and then there may be a grimace or a hint of nervousness, there is certainly no crying or resistance. The children in the film, quite unrehearsed, behave perfectly. It is an excellent film and should do much to dispel parental apprehensions.” \n\nIn a 1935 issue of the British Medical Journal, one could read the following advice regarding the use of films in public health: “If the medical profession wanted, for example, to introduce widespread prophylaxis against diphtheria it could take a leaf out of Papworth's book and tell a story on the films that would help to wipe out diphtheria in a few years' time. It is no good trying to persuade people of the Tightness of this or that measure of health with the sweet voice of reason. It is the emotional appeal that wins the day; reason follows humbly after. The film, with its forcible assault upon both eye and ear, is a powerful weapon of propaganda. And it could be used with effect for ‘putting across’ to the public the idea of preventive medicine. Perhaps the Minister of Health, Sir Kingsley Wood, a master of propaganda, might enlist the help of the moving picture in his campaign for the improved health of the people.” \n\nBy the 1980s, medical films had become an established vehicle of both medical and patient training. A 1987 issue of the American Journal of Nursing contained a full-page section on Films & Tapes covering broad topics such as Aids to Daily Living for the elderly, working moms, AIDS, alcohol abuse and even emotional fitness.\n\nToday, the concept of healthcare knowledge transfer recognizes that film clips (with carefully crafted and verified content, and using graphics, animations and live-action video), can be one of the most efficient ways of transferring knowledge with clarity and speed, to both lay-people (patients, families, and friends), and healthcare professionals.\n\nTraditionally the transfer of generic information (i.e. non patient-specific information) tends to happen on a somewhat ad-hoc, live, one-to-one basis, that is generally less well structured, less comprehensive, and thus less successful (whilst also being more expensive and less time efficient).\n\nHowever, in order to be efficient and effective, the quality of the film’s content must be very high. A patient’s understanding of conditions and treatments is important to their care and well-being, so it is useful for carefully crafted clips to be available 24/7. It also helps patients when attending the all-important one-to-one consultations that are the bedrock of good healthcare. If patients are better informed and better prepared they can focus on their own case rather than generic issues.\n\nThe literature in this area also contains examples of what can happen when the film content is not particularly well crafted and presented. In 2000, a UK cancer study highlights the impact of poor quality video. The authors acknowledge that “not all randomised trials of video education, however, have had similarly consistent results. A randomised trial in patients undergoing colonoscopy reported increased knowledge and satisfaction but failed to demonstrate a reduction in anxiety. A similar study in patients receiving genetic counseling reported similar benefits but again no reduction in anxiety. Two further randomised trials, the first in patients having breast surgery and the second in patients undergoing coronary angioplasty, failed to show any improvement in satisfaction or anxiety. The variation in these trial results suggests that, like all educational materials, the quality of the content is paramount and how it is used is vital to success. Involving patients in the development and showing patients recounting their personal experience undoubtedly helps. Using respected TV personalities offers the familiar face of respectability and professionalism. Above all, most studies fail to take advantage of the role which video has to play in continuing the educational process at home with their carers and friends, but instead ask patients to watch it in the unfamiliar environment of the clinic.” \n\nWith the widespread use of the internet since the late 1990s, there is a tremendous potential for health-related films to be made available, free at the point of need, over the internet. Moreover, the 21st century sees an expanding integration of social media and mobile devices into our lives, thus enabling an even wider adoption of film-based health knowledge transfer.\n\nA recent slate of long-form films includes ‘Outreach’ - a film about the workings of a specialist spinal injury unit, The Spinal Injury Patient Film, an award-winning film for new patients with spinal cord injuries, Choosing a Wheelchair, a film about the correct protocol of wheelchair assessment and procurement for individual patients, and several films on cancer survivorship.\n\nThe 55 minute production is set to help improve well-being and long-term outcomes for Britain's 1.2 million wheelchair users. Too many people do not understand the importance of getting the right wheelchair; the right set-up and support, and the appropriate pressure relief. UK provision is patchy, indeed there is - surprisingly - no qualification requirement for a wheelchair services provider/specifier in the National Health Service (NHS).\n\nThe film includes leading experts and practitioners in this area, plus case studies, and even an introductory history of the wheelchair. It thus provides a comprehensive and holistic overview of best practice and assessment, and is supported by many voices of experience.\nFor the NHS the long-term cost benefits of proper provision in an aging population are very considerable.\n\nNewly injured Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) patients are anxious about what is happening to them and the related long-term implications. When a patient is admitted to hospital with an SCI it is traumatic for their family, friends and loved ones too. One challenge faced by clinicians is communicating with a patient’s ‘advocates’, people who may know little of spinal cord injury, the care process, nor the problems of prognosis. They may be understandably overwhelmed, they want answers… “doctor, will he/she walk again?”.\n\nInspired by patient feedback, award-winning director Marcus Dillistone, has created the film “From Darkness Into Light”, to help explain the core issues with SCI and to provide patient insight. The film is designed not to replace face-to-face discussion, but to complement it.\n\nThe film was conceived as a ‘prescriptive’ communications tool in hospitals, with the decision of when (and if) to introduce the film to the patient or their advocates being made by the clinical team.\n\nWhen a person is diagnosed with cancer, treatment is often the focus of discussion among patients, health care providers and family. However, the next phase of care, cancer survivorship, is much less discussed. The 2005 Institute of Medicine (IOM) report “From Cancer Patient to Cancer Survivor: Lost in Transition” raised the awareness of the issue. Survivors of cancer face unique challenges, while health care providers do not always have the time, resource and training to provide counseling and assistance.\n\nA 2005 randomized controlled study, Moving Beyond Cancer Trial, showed that a peer-modeling video as a psychoeducation tool is more effective than print materials in recovery of energy/vitality in post-treatment breast cancer patients. This 23-minute film, now available on the National Cancer Institute website, addressed re-entry challenges in four life domains: physical health, emotional well-being, interpersonal relations, and life perspectives. Designed to promote adaptive peer modeling, the film observes four breast cancer survivors as they describe their experience in each of the four domains, as well as active coping skills they used to meet associated challenges. The film also includes commentary by an oncologist expert in breast cancer on the re-entry experience and on active methods for approaching problems during re-entry.\n\nSince then, many video resources have been made available on the internet to cancer survivors and their care providers. Examples include a general education video on the issues of cancer survivorship produced by the IOM, a video series by Living Beyond Breast Cancer, a national education and support organization, addressing specific and sometimes sensitive issues during breast cancer survivorship.\n"}
{"id": "10215413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10215413", "title": "Community cohesion", "text": "Community cohesion\n\nThe concept of community cohesion was established in the United Kingdom following a number of riots and disturbances in England in 2001. Although the term had been used in different contexts previously (in Canada, for example), the first report to employ the term and to propose a new policy framework around it, was \"Community Cohesion: The Report of The Independent Review Team\" (http://dera.ioe.ac.uk/14146/1/communitycohesionreport.pdf). This followed the riots in a number of towns in northern England in the summer of that year. The Report considered the national and wider dimensions of community relations and reviewed both those areas that had not suffered disturbances, as well as those that had. The Report’s findings represented a fundamental challenge to the then multicultural model and became best known for identifying the parallel lives of minority and majority communities, but also proposed a wide range of new policies which were subsequently adopted by government and other agencies.\n\nThe Cantle Report was supported by three local reviews of the three towns most affected by the riots. These were: for Bradford, the \"Ouseley Report\" (2001); for Oldham, the \"Ritchie Report\" (2001) and; for Burnley, the \"Clarke Report\" (2001) (the Ouseley Report was commissioned prior to the disturbances in Bradford). The Government responded with \"Building Cohesive Communities, a Report of the Ministerial Group on Public Order\" (The \"Denham Report\") which set out a wide range of proposed actions.\n\nThe concept of community cohesion was subsequently widely adopted in the UK and some of the ideas and approaches have also been taken up in other countries. Government, local government, public service and voluntary agencies widely embraced the new policy direction, many establishing community cohesion officers and teams to develop strategies and implement the new approach. While the Welsh Government continues with its strategy, in England, the Coalition Government elected in 2010 preferred to build their strategy around the idea of integration, though many policies have remained the same.\n\nThere have been at least three formal national definitions of the concept, each building upon the other over the six-year period from 2002 to 2008. All refer, however, to the need for strong and positive relationships between people from different backgrounds, tackling inequalities and developing a positive climate of opinion to support diversity. There are also a large number of local definitions, which draw upon the formal national definitions but tend to add a local context.\n\nThe first and most widely used, built directly on the Cantle and Denham reports, and was constructed by the co-authors of the \"Guidance on Community Cohesion\", the Local Government Association, the then Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Commission of Racial Equality and the Inter-Faith Network:\n\n\"A cohesive community is one where:\n\nSome five years later the Commission for Integration and Cohesion proposed a number of amended and additional points, which offered a more complex and somewhat convoluted definition and sought to add concepts of ‘trust’, ‘rights’ and ‘responsibilities’ – perhaps owing more to ideas about citizenship which was a Government pre-occupation at the time. Three 'ways of living together' were added by the Department of Communities and Local Government (CLG) in response to the CIC report, but both these additions added little to the original and tended to blur the focus of cohesion based on belonging, equal opportunities and positive interaction.\n\nThe policy domain was however particularly productive in producing guidance and less reliance was perhaps placed on the formal definition and more upon the emerging practice. The most influential guidance was that issued by the LGA et al. to support local government and partner agencies. This emphasised the importance of ‘common values’ and cross community and cross disciplinary working, as well as the need to continue to tackle inequalities and disadvantage. Moreover, a Community Cohesion Unit was established in 2002 to co-ordinate national work and implement practice where necessary. This was supported by an independent panel of practitioners who helped to develop guidance and best practice on cohesion. Its work concluded with a final report The End of Parallel Lives that stressed the importance of mainstreaming cohesion into local government services. Much of this thinking was brought together by the Home Office publication Improving Opportunity, Strengthening Society in 2005. Building community cohesion was one of the four key themes alongside addressing inequality, promoting inclusiveness and tackling racism and extremism.\n\nGuidance was produced on a wide range of policy areas. These included:\n\n\nIn contrast to the policy literature, academic publications were initially few and far between. On the whole they tended to be critical of the concept of community cohesion, though some of the more recent works have been much more supportive.\n\nThe first academic textbook, produced by a proponent of the concept and author of the Cantle Report was supportive and attempted to build a substantial and theoretical underpinning for community cohesion. \"Community Cohesion: A New Framework for Race and Diversity\" was first published in 2005, with an updated version in 2008. This analysis suggested that multicultural policy and practice had contributed to separateness and segregation and built on the idea of the ‘parallel lives’ of the earlier Cantle Report. However, it also sought to establish a broader sense of difference, in which identity was not limited to the multicultural paradigm of race and suggested that cohesion was concerned with identity based on sexual orientation, gender, faith, disability, nationality and other forms of identities, as well as that of ethnicity.\n\nOther academics claimed that community cohesion was being used as part of a new politically inspired approach to, firstly, shift the agenda towards one of assimilation of minorities and, secondly, move away from the focus on inequalities and disadvantage. McGhee (2005), for example, challenged the notion of the cosmopolitan identities and associated it with the then politics of New Labour. He suggests that \"identity, culture and tradition are seen as conducive to prejudice, antagonism, polarization, mistrust, hatred and overt (fanatical) loyalty associated with preservationist or past-orientated orientations\" and that emotionally hot patterns of identity are being replaced by \"a calmer cosmopolitan mentality which is characterised by flexibility, ‘cool’ loyalties and thin patterns of solidarity.\" Burnett (2004) saw the debate in the same political terms as McGhee and similarly detected assimilationist tendencies in the reform of the notion of identity and suggested that the then New Labour Government used both the idea of community cohesion and the idea of communitarianism as a \"bridge between the concept of citizenship (and its obligations) and ever widening notions of criminality.\" He believed this amounted to the conjuring up of a fear of a \"new moral order.\" Burnett’s later comments (Burnett, 2006), however, acknowledged that community cohesion policies did also put an emphasis on the need for majority White majority communities to change. McGhee (2008, p53)is also concerned about what this change of direction means in practice and for example, sees attempts to develop the use of English language on a more pervasive basis as an extension of the Government’s ‘linguistic nationalism’ which focuses on the \"easiest signifier of sameness and difference,\" rather than it being a means by which diverse communities can communicate and interact. Harrison (2005)takes a similar view, fearing assimilation \"in which the entrenched barriers and values of white communities pass relatively unchallenged (Harrison, 2005, p. 91).\"\n\nThe same approach has been taken by activists and commentators that support the race based conceptions of a divided society. Kundnani, for example, claims that the changing nature of debates on ‘race’ has helped to shift the imperative to integration and by building shared norms, common identity and stable communities, diverse groups would be expected to ‘buy into’ British institutions, organisations and processes. Lentin and Titley (2011) also believe that the development of community cohesion was a means of reining back race relations policies on the part of Government.\n\nWhilst the 2001 reports did draw attention to structural inequalities and disadvantage faced by communities and made recommendations for addressing them, it was nevertheless suggested that the community cohesion agenda failed to take full account of socio-economic factors and has been a means of diverting attention away from them.\n\nIndeed, \"Promoting Social Cohesion: Implications for policy and practice\" takes as its starting point the need to reconceptualise community cohesion as social cohesion in order to emphasise structural conditions and equality targets. The suggestion that community cohesion did not take full account of inequalities from the outset is contradicted by the formal definition adopted by the LGA (see above). The idea of a simplistic link between disadvantage and prejudice and discrimination is also contested by Cantle (2012). It is also contested by Thomas who dismisses this charge in the first academic study based upon real evidence from the operation of cohesion in local communities. The assertions were also contradicted by the Government policy commitments given during the earlier development, particularly the annual series of \"Building Opportunity, Strengthening Society\" reports from 2005. The commitment to tackling inequalities and \"making social justice visible\" was also reaffirmed by the review of community cohesion conducted by the Commission for Integration and Cohesion in 2007 and in the Government’s response to it made the following year.\n\nIn challenging the earlier assertions about community cohesion, Thomas (2011) suggests that whilst it had been out of step with most academic analysis, that analysis had been \"completely free of empirical evidence, resting instead on national governmental reports and discourse\"(Thomas, 2011 p. 4). Thomas’s study is based on evidence from the areas which have the \"profound ethnic segregation, and the separate, oppositional and potentially dangerous ethnic and religious identities\" (Thomas, 2011 p. 4) that community cohesion policy was concerned with. Indeed, Thomas chides the critiques of cohesion for developing ‘evidence free’ views and for ignoring the empirical data that had been produced (Thomas, 2011 p. 92).\n\nFurther, Thomas (2011) dismisses the charges that cohesion was in some way a return to assimilationism or a shift away from tackling inequalities. He found that community cohesion was simply \"a critique of particular forms of multiculturalism policy formation and operation that have focused exclusively on the needs, identities and concerns of each separate ethnic group without consideration of relations, links and experiences shared between those groups\"(Thomas, 2011 p. 91). Thomas also found that, rather than promote assimilation, \"community cohesion practice accepts and works with distinct ethnic and social identities, whilst augmenting them with overarching identities based on common connections, needs and experiences\" (Thomas, 2011 p. 168).\n\nIn addition, Delanty (2011) goes to the heart of the academic critique by pointing out that \"The notion of a cultural encounter has been a surprisingly neglected topic in sociology and has hardly been addressed in related fields\", in other words, the central concern of community cohesion had simply not been seriously considered in previous race relations theory, casting doubt on the validity of the previous academic concerns.\n\nMore than sixteen years since the concept of 'parallel lives' was expounded in the Cantle Report, Thomas et al, (2017) has found clear evidence of their continued existence in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, an area previously identified as a 'failed space' of multiculturalism and one which has much in common with many other English Northern towns ans cities. From an extensive study of the local area, Thomas et al concluded that '‘parallel lives’ are a lived reality' in which 'discourses focused around racial and religious differences ‘saturate’ everyday life – they are the lens through which social and political life is read by many local people' and that this was particularly the case for White British residents. Again, this suggests that empirical study supports the thesis of community cohesion.\n\nAustin & Hunter (2013) reviewed school-based projects internationally that use online communication technologies to promote community cohesion by bringing children from diverse communities (often, communities in conflict or post conflict situations). They particularly focused on active projects in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Europe, and Israel and noted the relative absence of such programs in North America. They argue that online technologies may serve to provide the kind of positive contact called for in research on the contact hypothesis, especially in environments where face-to-face contact may be deemed unsafe, impractical or expensive. They speculate that increasing use of social media in schools may serve to increase the potential for projects that seek to promote community cohesion using information and communications technology.\n\nIn addition, there are a number of related policy areas which provide overwhelming support for the practice and process of community cohesion.\n\nThese include: \n\nWhilst the debate surrounding community cohesion will no doubt continue, there is little disagreement that the breaking down of barriers between communities and the building of trust and understanding is a desirable objective. The use of \ncommunity cohesion programmes to disconfirm stereotypes and misconceptions about the ‘other’, has had some success and is used to promote good relations between a wide range of communities. In some cases, there are clear and measurable impacts of such programmes and generally measure attitudinal and behavioural change in the programme participants, or in the wider local community.\n\nIn addition to the small-scale programmes focused on divided communities, community cohesion has also developed at a citywide or area level to develop support a broader consensus in support of diversity. These often included high-profile campaigns featuring people from a range of backgrounds who all belong and contribute to the economic and cultural life of the area. These campaigns were important in that they tried to present a new positive picture of diversity and whilst recognising the value of cultural heritage and distinctiveness, it placed a new emphasis on the commonalities between groups and thereby contributed to a less defensive and more progressive form of multiculturalism, or towards the idea of interculturalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54525358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54525358", "title": "Comunicar", "text": "Comunicar\n\nComunicar is a quarterly peer-reviewed open access academic journal covering research on education and communication. It is bilingual in Spanish and English and has summaries in Chinese and Portuguese. The journal was established in 1993 and is published by Grupo Comunicar. Since 2016 it is published quarterly. Its editor-in-chief is Ignacio Aguaded. The journal is abstracted and indexed in the Social Sciences Citation Index and Scopus. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.212.\n\n"}
{"id": "6130036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130036", "title": "Curriculum theory", "text": "Curriculum theory\n\nCurriculum Theory (CT) is an academic discipline devoted to examining and shaping educational curricula. There are many interpretations of CT, being as narrow as the dynamics of the learning process of one child in a classroom to the lifelong learning path an individual takes. CT can be approached from the educational, philosophical, psychological and sociological perspectives. James MacDonald states \"one central concern of theorists is identifying the fundamental unit of curriculum with which to build conceptual systems. Whether this be rational decisions, action processes, language patterns, or any other potential unit has not been agreed upon by the theorists.\" Curriculum theory is fundamentally concerned with values, the historical analysis of curriculum, ways of viewing current educational curriculum and policy decisions, and theorizing about the curricula of the future. \n\nPinar defines the contemporary field of curriculum theory as \"the effort to understand curriculum as a symbolic representation\".\n\nThe first mention of the word \"curriculum\" in university records was in 1582, at the University of Leiden, Holland: \"having completed the curriculum of his studies\". However, curriculum theory as a field of study is thought to have been initiated with the publication of The Yale Report on the Defense of the Classics in 1828, which promoted the study of a classical curriculum, including Latin and Greek, by rote memorization.\n\nThe school of faculty psychology, dominating the field from 1860-1890 in the United States, believed that the brain was a muscle that could be improved by the exercise of memorization (with comprehension a secondary consideration). This supports the classical theory, which previously emphasized a method of teaching school subjects using memorization and recitation as primary instructional tools. The theory itself claims three constituent faculties or power:\n\n\nThe idea is that education should expand the faculty of the mind and this is achieved through the key concepts of discipline and furniture. The faculty theory, which steered curriculum policy for elementary, secondary, and high schools, was institutionalized by three committees appointed by the National Education Association (NEA) in the 1890s to follow faculty psychology principles: the Committee of Ten on Secondary School Studies (1893), the Committee of Fifteen on Elementary Education (1895) and the Committee on College Entrance Requirements. \n\nDifferent schools of Curriculum Theory developed as a reaction to the classicism of faculty psychology, including the Herbartians, who organized the Herbart Club in 1892, and later the National Herbart Society (1895-1899). Their philosophy was based on the thoughts of Johann Frederich Herbart, a German philosopher, psychologist and educator, who believed that \"the mere memorizing of isolated facts, which had characterized school instruction for ages, had little value of either educational or moral ends\".\nThe publication of John Bobbitt's The Curricula in 1918 took the prevalent industrial revolutionary concepts of experimental science and social efficiency and applied them to the classroom. He believed that \"curriculum must directly and specifically prepare students for tasks in the adult world\". He also believed that \"human life...consists in the performance of specific activities. Education that prepares for life is one that prepares definitely and adequately for these specific activities.\" From this idea, he suggested that curriculum was a series of experiences that children have in order to meet \"objectives,\" or abilities and habits that people need for particular activities.\n\nOther famous theorists of this movement included Edward L. Thorndyke (1874-1949), the father of experimental psychology in education, Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856-1915), with his theory of scientific management, David Snedden, an educational sociologist who promoted social efficiency and vocational education, and W.W. Charters (1875-1952), a teacher educator who felt that \"curriculum was those methods by which objectives are determined\". By using education as an efficiency tool, these theorists believed that society could be controlled. Students were scientifically evaluated by testing (such as IQ tests), and educated towards their predicted role in society. This involved the introduction of vocational and junior high schools to address the curriculum designed around specific life activities that correlated with each student's determined societal future. The socially efficient curriculum consisted of minute parts or tasks that together formed a bigger concept.\n\nThe progressive reform movement began in the late 1870s with the work of Colonel Francis Parker, but is most identified with John Dewey, and also John Mayer Rice and Lester Frank Ward. Dewey's 1899 book The School and Society is often credited with starting the movement. These reformers felt that curriculum should be child driven and at the child's present capacity level. To aid in understanding the relationship of curriculum and child, Dewey described curriculum as, \"a map, a summary, an arranged and orderly view of previous experiences, serves as a guide to future experience; it gives direction; it facilitates control; it economizes effort, preventing useless wandering, and pointing out the paths which lead most quickly and most certainly to a desired result\". He envisioned \"the child and the curriculum are simply two limits which define a single process\".\n\nThe Social Efficiency and Progressive Reform movements were rivals throughout the 1920s in the United States, with the 1930s belonging to the Progressives, or a curriculum combining aspects of both. Ralph W. Tyler's Basic Principles of Curriculum and Instruction (1949) swung the pendulum of curriculum theory away from child centeredness toward more generalized behaviors.\n\nTyler's theory was based on four fundamental questions which became known as the \"Tyler Rationale\":\n\nThere is a racial crisis in America, which is exacerbated by the widening gap between the rich and the poor. In order to address this gap within the multicultural education movement there is a body of knowledge which argues for the need to reconceptualise, re-envision, and rethink American schooling. Numerous authors advocate the need for fundamental changes in the educational system which acknowledges that there is a plurality within teaching and learning for students of diversity. Current research suggests that educational structure is oppressive to students of diversity and is an obstacle to integration into society and student achievement. Current multicultural education theory suggests that curriculum and institutional change is required to support the development of students from diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. This is a controversial view but multicultural education argues that traditional curriculum does not adequately represent the history of the non dominant group. Nieto (1999) supports this concern for students who do not belong to the dominant group and seem to have challenging curriculum experiences that conflict with their personal cultural identity and their wider community reference groups.\n\nThe launch of Sputnik in 1957 created a focus on science and math in the United States curriculum. Admiral Hyman Rickover accused the American public of indifference to intellectual achievement. \"Our schools must return to the tradition of formal education in Western civilization-transmission of cultural heritage, and preparation for life through rigorous intellectual training of young minds to think clearly, logically, and independently\". The result was a return to curricula similar to the classicists of the 1890s and the modern birth of the traditionalists, with massive federal funding for curriculum development provided by the National Defense Act of 1958.\n\nJoseph J. Schwab was instrumental in provoking curriculum developers to think beyond the traditionalist approach. In his 1969 paper \"The Practical: A Language for Curriculum\" he declared the curriculum field \"moribund\". This, plus the social unrest of the 1960s and '70s stirred a new movement of \"reconceptualization\" of curricula. A group of theorists, including James Macdonald, Dwayne Huebner, Ross Mooney, Herbert M. Kliebard, Paul Klohr, Michael Apple, W.F. Pinar, and others, created ways of thinking about curriculum and its role in the academy, in schools, and in society in general. Their approach included perspectives from the social, racial, gender, phenomenological, political, autobiographical and theological points of view.\n\nW.F. Pinar describes the present field \"balkanized...divided into relatively separate fiefdoms or sectors of scholarship, each usually ignoring the other except for occasional criticism.\" The top-down governmental control of educational curriculum in the Anglophone world, including the United States, has been criticized as being \"ahistorical and atheoretical, and as a result prone to difficult problems in its implementation\". But there are theorists who are looking beyond curriculum as \"simply as a collection of study plans, syllabi, and teaching subjects. Instead, the curriculum becomes the outcome of a process reflecting a political and societal agreement about the what, why, and how of education for the desired society of the future.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11025173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11025173", "title": "DPubS", "text": "DPubS\n\nDPubS (Digital Publishing System), developed by Cornell University Library and Penn State University Libraries, is a free open access publication management software. DPubS arose out of Project Euclid, an electronic publishing platform for journals in mathematics and statistics. DPubS is free software released under Educational Community License.\n\nCornell University Library’s involvement in digital publishing dates back to the 1980s. In partnership with the Xerox Corporation and the Commission on Preservation and Access, Cornell developed an early digital imaging project to preserve books in a fragile condition. Initially focused upon republishing mathematics titles, this effort expanded to include projects in agricultural history, home economics and American studies. \n\nThe “serials crisis” in the 1980s and 1990s likely encouraged Cornell University Library and other academic libraries and institutions to investigate such possibilities. In the 1980s libraries noticed that their journal subscription prices were increasing alarmingly. By the early 1990s, many solutions were being explored, with cancellations being significant among them; in one dramatic case, LSU cancelled $650,000 in subscriptions in 1992-93. Other alternatives emerged, however, involving the use of new technologies – such as those that enabled Cornell’s digital imaging project – and the increasing availability of the Internet. \nOne such method of increasing access, Project MUSE, was initiated by Johns Hopkins University Press. Initially, Project Muse was intended to allow electronic access to titles published by Johns Hopkins University Press, but it has expanded to include the “full text of more than 300 journals from 60 different publishing groups worldwide.\" Another such project, developed by Cornell University Library and influenced by Project Muse, is Project Euclid, an electronic gathering of mathematics and statistics journals. As of 2005 it was delivering “40 journals to libraries and individuals under subscription, hosting, or open access delivery plans.\" Project Euclid was developed out of the code used to create NCSTRL, “a distributed network of Computer Science technical reports” in Cornell’s Computer Science department. It offers an opportunity for “low-cost independent and society journals” to take advantage of the benefits of inclusion in an online database “without sacrificing their intellectual or economic independence or commitment to low subscription prices.\" Several pricing options are available: Euclid Prime (EP), Euclid Select (ES), Euclid Direct (ED), and Open Access (OA). \n\nDeveloped with the help of two grants from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Project Euclid, named after ancient mathematician Euclid of Alexandria, launched in 2003. As did their experience developing the digital imaging project, Project Euclid afforded Cornell University Library the opportunity to learn a great deal. Specifically, the library discovered much about functioning as a digital press that it was previously unfamiliar with, such as “marketing or handling subscription requests . . . editorial management procedures and the ability to negotiate contracts with journal owners.\" While Euclid has been successful thus far – reported as “healthy and growing” in early 2006 – Cornell’s heavy investment in the project and the ever-changing nature of the academic journal field where “sustainability is a moving target” has led to the exploration of other publishing avenues.\n\nAnother initiative with relevance to the development of DPubS, arXiv, came to Cornell along with its initial developer Paul Ginsparg in 2001. Institutional repositories, which serve as a central database of scholarly work such as preprints and postprints of journal articles, have become increasingly popular: OpenDOAR, an online directory of open access repositories, has shown an increase from 350 to 850 repositories included in its database since mid-2006. Use of arXiv has been described as “intense,” averaging about 4,000 submissions per month in 2005. Though many repositories – including all of those listed in OpenDOAR – are open access, they “have not substituted for traditional publications, and thus have not had a substantial impact on the journals pricing situation.\" However, the success of open access repositories such as arXiv could indicate a growing willingness on the part of scholars to make use of non-traditional methods of publishing for their work. \n\nApart from Cornell’s own desire to inquire further into unconventional approaches to publishing, there was an additional motivator. One of the results of the release of Project Euclid was interest in the software used to produce it. Cornell decided that they would eventually release this software, renaming it DPubS, but that it needed further development in order to be utilized by others. It was in 2004 that the Pennsylvania State University Libraries became involved – expressing interest in the software that was used to develop Project Euclid – and the first project in developing DPubS was making available the journal Pennsylvania History: A Journal of Mid-Atlantic Studies. This journal has been published since 1934 and is an official publication of the Pennsylvania Historical Association (PHA).\n\nAlso in 2004, Terry Ehling, the Director of the Center for Innovative Publishing at Cornell University Library addressed four goals for developing the software used to create Project Euclid into DPubS. These goals included: broadening the software’s applicability by expanding its flexibility, including improving its ability to be used for monographs and other “non-serial literature”; “provide on-line editorial management services to support ‘peer review’ activities”; further developing “the administrative functionality and interface”; and “provide interoperability with institutional repository systems.\" Furthermore, the DpubS website states the following as the development goals of Cornell University Library and Penn State University Libraries: “generalizing the platform beyond a single discipline and document format (serials); adding administrative interfaces for non-technical staff; allowing a level of interoperability between DPubS and institutional repository systems, specifically Fedora and DSpace and developing editorial services to support the peer review process.” \n\nAfter two years of development, DPubS was released in November 2006, also with thanks to a grant of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Its user interface utilizes XML (Extensible Markup Language) and XSLT (eXtensible Style Sheet Language Transformations) which enable a high-level of adjustment for the design of the Web appearance for publications supported by DPubS. Additionally, it has the following features: “scalable, single platform for electronic publishing,” allowing for the publication of several formats from one place; “rich presentation features,” due to the inclusion of XML; “multiple business models,” allowing both publications that are open access and those that are fee-based to utilize the software; “greater exposure and visibility of publications,” due to the use of OAI-MHP 2.0 (Open Access Initiative Metadata Harvesting Protocol) to allow metadata to be harvested from the content supported by DPubS and shared with users through services such as Google Scholar; “administrative management tools for non-technical staff”; “interoperability with institutional repositories” such as Fedora and DSpace (the latter forthcoming as of April 2007); “flexible and extensible handling of file and metadata formats,” allowing the easy use of PDFs, HTML, Microsoft Word files, PowerPoint presentations, etc.; and a “modular architecture allowing easy extension and customization.\nCornell and Penn State seem to have been largely successful in addressing most of the goals stated by Ehling, particularly in its customizability. As intended, the software used to develop Project Euclid has been expanded in order to encompass non-journal publications such as books and conference proceedings. Furthermore, the DpubS software can be adapted in order to be used with other formats. This aspect of DpubS results from it being open source, meaning that the software’s coding has been made available, enabling programmers to develop additions and modifications of the software for their own and others purposes. While the administrative tools have been included, the editorial management services will wait for “future releases.” \n\nToward the goal of further development, Cornell University Library and The Pennsylvania State University Libraries has partnered with several institutions that will be using DPubS and providing feedback. As of April 2007, these partners were: Australian National University, Bielefeld University – Germany, University of Kansas, University of Utah, University of Wisconsin–Madison, and Vanderbilt University. Along with Pennsylvania History mentioned above, other journals being supported by DPubS include: Medieval Philosophy and Theology, “a semi-annual, peer-reviewed journal . . . of medieval philosophy, including logic and natural science, and in medieval theology, including Christian, Jewish, and Islamic”; Indonesia, “a semi-annual journal published by the Cornell Southeast Asia Program . . . of Indonesia’s culture, history, government, economy, and society from 1966 to the present”; and Cornell Technical Reports and Papers, “a collection of publications from the Cornell Theory Center, the Cornell Computer Science Department, and other departments and units.\" \n\nDPubS has been designed with the opinion that “libraries should get involved in publishing.\" As mentioned above, the traditional model of journal publication and the dissemination of scholarly information has been through those titles published by commercial publishers. Over time, the reputations of scholars have become strongly linked with the appearance of their work in these journals to the exception of publications outside of the commercial realm; some groups of scholars initially reacted to Project Euclid in a “skittish” manner due to concerns over the unfamiliar nature of its model. The creators of DPubs believe that libraries are uniquely positioned to play an important role in alternating this status quo. Efforts such as Project Muse, Project Euclid, arXiv, DPubS and other endeavors represent the kind of efforts that can be made by libraries and university presses to combat the challenges rising journal prices have presented to their budgets. Furthermore, due to issues of profitability, an increasing amount of scholarship does not get printed. \n\nDPubS’ potential to contain the “cycle of knowledge creation and dissemination . . . within the academy and its close collaborators” could have a significant impact on academic publishing. DPubS positions itself to “encourage” libraries to take upon a new role with new responsibilities in order to alter some of the regrettable developments in the accessibility of scholarship over the past several decades. The hope is that it will help to increase access through electronic publishing by offering for free software that could easily cost six figures “for the initial licensing.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11111323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11111323", "title": "Doctor of Management", "text": "Doctor of Management\n\nThe Doctor of Management (D.M., D.Mgt. or DMan) is a doctoral degree focusing on advanced study and research in the applied science and practice of professional management.\n\nThe D.M. was introduced at Case Western Reserve in 1995, and several universities have since developed their own programs. In the UK, the Doctor of Management (DMan) was introduced at the University of Hertfordshire in 2000. The D.M. program is an applied professional practice doctorate including a similar strong emphasis on research to the academically-equivalent PhD in management, but with a focus on the application of management theories rather than on developing and extending those theories. In addition to research, it is focused on developing the talents, skills and abilities of organization executives and experienced management professionals.\n\nIn most cases, the distinction between the degrees is one of orientation and intended outcomes. The Ph.D. is highly focused on developing theoretical knowledge, while the D.M. further emphasizes applied research leading to the practical application of this theoretical knowledge. The Ph.D. thus prepares students for careers in academia, while the D.M. is more aimed at those seeking a career in management. Some D.M. programs require a dissertation, while others have replaced this with a number of applied research projects. \n\nThe British DMan is a professional doctorate with the same academic status as a Ph.D. The U.S. Doctor of Management is also a professional doctorate but is not (as of the report \"Doctorate Recipients from U.S. Universities: 2014\") recognised as a Ph.D.-equivalent research doctorate by the U.S. National Science Foundation. However, this doctorate is sometimes viewed as a variant of the Ph.D. in Management (especially when a dissertation is required in the program).\n\nTo be admitted as a doctoral management student in the U.S., one must hold a management-related master's degree, have sufficient managerial experience, and pass a comprehensive entrance exam or doctoral essay. In the UK (and in many programs in the U.S.), there is a minimum of five years of management or professional consulting experience required. In the UK, an honours degree plus a relevant master's degree is preferred. The student must then complete necessary coursework (typically focused on leadership and strategy, and including training in research methodology), perform independent original research under supervision of a qualified doctoral advisor, pass the doctoral dissertation or doctoral thesis defense, and in some cases, teach examinable courses.\n\nAlthough it can be completed in as little as three years, the D.M. typically takes 4–6 years to complete. The first two years of the program are usually focused on intensive doctoral-level coursework and generally at least one research practicum (near the end of core courses, residencies, and research and writing training). It may be followed by a comprehensive examination (comps) at this point if the candidate has successfully reached this stage. Similar to the PhD, the subsequent dissertation completion phase for the D.M. can take an additional two or more years. In some programs where the candidate has a good deal of professional management practical experience, the D.M. can be completed in as little as three years if the candidate has proven capable of taking a full load of credits each term, as well as successful completion of the required dissertation and its defense.\n\nCommon research methodologies used in management studies include both quantitative and qualitative approaches such as: Modeling, Econometrics, Experiments, Descriptive and Field Studies, Phenomenology, Case Study, Action Research or Mixed Methods strategies of inquiry.\n\n"}
{"id": "7859945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7859945", "title": "Education in Chemistry", "text": "Education in Chemistry\n\nEducation in Chemistry is a magazine covering all areas of chemistry education, concentrating on the teaching of chemistry in secondary schools and universities. The editor is Paul MacLellan. It is also available as an app for mobile devices. It is published by the Royal Society of Chemistry, which also publishes \"Chemistry Education Research and Practice\", a peer-reviewed academic journal on the same topic.\n\nThe magazine is published bimonthly, includes a blog, and occasional additional 'supplements' published online.\n"}
{"id": "18102874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102874", "title": "Education in Latvia", "text": "Education in Latvia\n\nEducation in Latvia is free and compulsory. Compulsory education includes two years of preschool education (usually starting at 5 years old) and a further nine years of elementary education (usually until 15/16 years of age).\n\nIn 1996, the gross primary enrolment rate was 95.8 percent, while the net primary enrollment rate was 89.5 percent. The number of children who do not attend primary school was increasing as of 2001. In rural areas, a number of schools have been closed. The place allocated to minority languages in secondary education was an issue of wide protests in 2003-2004 (see Russian School Defense Staff).\n\nAccording to 2010 data from UNESCO, 4,720 students from Latvia were enrolled in tertiary education abroad (mostly in the UK, Russia and Germany); 1,760 students from other countries were enrolled in tertiary education in Latvia (mostly from Russia, Ukraine and Lithuania).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8300901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8300901", "title": "Gandaki Boarding School", "text": "Gandaki Boarding School\n\nGandaki Higher Secondary Boarding School (Nepali: गण्डकी आवासीय उच्च माध्यामिक विध्यालय), (often referred as GBS), formerly known as Nepal Adarsha Bidyashram, is a model boarding school of Nepal, established on 11 June 1966 in the city of Pokhara, 200 kilometers west of Kathmandu. It is the first and the only regional school of the country. It was established as a result of the initiation of three groups - The United Mission to Nepal, The Shining Hospital, and the local community.\n\n\n\nIt was established in 1966 on the banks of Seti River. Initially the facilities were primitive with all the thatched-roofed buildings mud and bamboo. There were 45 boarding students, who were catered for by five teaching staff. It was designated as a co-educational regional school in 1985 with English as the medium of instruction in an agreement between Nepal government and the United Mission to Nepal.\n\nUntil 1991, courses were available for Grade 4 to Grade 10. Then it started offering 10+2 system under the Higher Secondary Education Board. GBS is the first of few schools to introduce 10+2 in Nepal. Prior to the commencement of 10+2 education; students were prepared for O level study for a number of years.\n\nIn 1999, a new college was started in GBS. Gandaki College of Engineering and Sciences (GCES), is affiliated to Pokhara University and offers Bachelor of Engineering (BE) courses in Software Engineering.\n\nFrom 2010, it offers GCE A-Level Course under the Cambridge University, Cambridge, England.\n\n\n\nGBS has 25% of students studying on a scholarship basis. The annual budget is around 10 million rupees, which is met from sponsoring agencies and individual donors. The major sponsoring donor agencies include FELM Finland, BMS UK, P.C of Ireland and some donors from USA and Australia. The Government of Nepal provides 1 million rupees annually through the Ministry of Education to support the scholarship program. A full scholarship costs 1400 USD per year. A partial scholarship is also awarded.\n\nScholarships are awarded to economically disadvantaged but intelligent students. The number of students studying on scholarship is 180. They represent various ethnic groups and are from various districts of the country. Every year,during January/February scholarship entrance exams are conducted in eight centers across the Western Region of Nepal to select deserving students. Home visits are made to verify information and confirm the scholarship.\n\nThe scholarship program has been a part of GBS and GCES for many years. Through the program, the lives of children from poor and disadvantaged families have been transformed.\n\nAlthough the scholarship programme is continuing with the financial support of donor agencies, individual donors and the government of Nepal, it seemed imperative to open a trust in order to provide a strong financial security to the scholarship programme even after the UMN withdraws its support to the school. For this reason, Dr. P. V Chandy GBS Trust was established at the initiation of UMN expatriate Principal, Dr. P. V Chandy with the approval of the GBS Management committee and the United Mission to Nepal. The trust has been registered with the Government of Nepal, District Administration office, Kaski.\n\nDr. P. V Chandy is the chief patron of this trust, and a committee consisting of 10 members has been formed under the chairperson of EX. Rt Hon. Member of the Raj Parisad Standing Committee, Mr. Ganesh Bahdur Gurung. 48.5 million (4.85 crore) rupees has been raised and deposited at fixed accounts. Its mission is to raise the fund up to 10 million (10 crore) rupees so that the scholarship programme can continue to survive from the interest of the trust even after the withdrawal of the UMN's involvement.\n\nThe health center takes care of minor illnesses and first aid services. Serious cases are referred to the bigger hospitals of Pokhara. A CMA counselor and a nurse remain in charge of the health center and of the health education classes.\n\nThe laboratories are for the science courses throughout classes 4 to 12. Each class have science practical classes in the science labs. In addition to the science teachers, the science department has three lab assistants who maintain the science apparatus and science facilities.\n\nThere are ten hostels in GBS; seven for boys and three for girls. The hostels are named after the highest mountains of Nepal. For 2014/15 the hostels are:\n\n\nThe library was established in B.S. 2025. Set up in a simple building with limited resources, it now stands as one of the most well-equipped libraries in the western region and Nepal as well. It has more than 25,000 books including fiction, non-fiction, and reference. The library subscribes to most of the notable newspapers and magazines published in Nepal, Audio Visual and open system library.\n\nLibrary studies form a part of the school curriculum, in the course of which all students learn the positive use and exploitation of the library and its materials. Library projects are assessed as a component of the termly examination marks from grades 4 to 6.\n\nLibrary facilities and services:\n\nThe Catering Department serves food for all the boarder students.<br> \nTimetable:\n\nStudents are divided into four houses:\n\nThe four houses compete in annual activities.\n\nOther activities\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2400074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400074", "title": "Global studies", "text": "Global studies\n\nGlobal studies is the interdisciplinary study of political, economic, legal, ecological and cultural interconnectedness. Predominant subjects are politics, economics and law on an international level. Global studies is oriented around the study of globalization as it relates to intercontinental politics, the global economy, international law, market relations, the movement of people and resources, global communications, the effect of human activity on the environment, and many more topics. Global studies is often used to map global change and is both micro and macro in scope. The Cambridge English Dictionary defines global studies as \"the study of political, economic, and social situations in the world\".\n\nGlobal studies tackles the aforementioned topics by examining global power structures influenced by perspectives such as Orientalism and Eurocentrism. Global studies is distinguished from international studies by its broader focus – international studies is only one aspect of global studies. In cases such as international studies or international relations, the concept of 'national' confines the meaning of those fields of study. By comparison, global studies has a broader reach, from the global to the local.\n\nThe development of global studies in secondary and tertiary education is arguably a product of globalization, and its consequent results on the international community. In the late 20th century, an unprecedented rise in communications technologies and computerization occurred around the world, again enhancing the processes of globalization: “it is a shift in our very life circumstances ... the speed of change is closely allied to the growth of communication, and development in information and communication technologies have been exponential ... globalization is a fact of life from which we cannot retreat.”. As a result of this constantly changing global community, education providers began to see a need for the introduction of global studies into secondary school curricula (i.e. introduction of global issues through already existing subjects), and to create global studies degrees for tertiary students (i.e. sole degrees with a global focus).\n\nAccording to Jan Nederveen Pieterse, Mellichamp Professor of Global Studies and Sociology at The University of California, Santa Barbara:The first Global Studies conference took place at the University of Illinois Chicago in 2008; the 2009 conference was held in Dubai on the theme Views from Dubai: The Gulf and Globalization. The 2010 conference was in Busan, South Korea under the heading Global Rebalancing: East Asia and Globalization; the 2011 conference took place in Rio de Janeiro on Emerging societies and Emancipation; the 2012 conference was at Moscow University on the theme of Eurasia and Globalization: Complexity and Global studies; and the 2013 conference took place in New Delhi on the theme of Social Development in South Asia.The Global Studies Journal was founded in 2008 and is \"devoted to mapping and interpreting new trends and patterns in globalization\".\n\nThere can be much confusion about the use of the terms, \"global studies\" and \"international studies.\"\n\nThey are at times used interchangeably and differences in meaning are not evident, however, both disciplines are concerned with political, social and cultural issues, with the main focus of study being placed on international community interaction. However, subtle distinctions can be made between the two phrases. International studies generally looks at exchanges between states, multilateral or bilateral agreements, diplomacy and how issues are handled between two or more states. Global studies, in contrast, focuses on globally shared issues.\n\nIt has also been suggested that there are left wing and right wing connotations to each phrase, international studies being preferred by the right wing (i.e. relations between states) and global studies preferred by the left (i.e. issues affecting all global citizens).\n\nThe terms have also been described as such:\n\nInternational studies might be called the grandfather of global education. It often includes the study of countries, world religions, languages and international relations ... (global studies) is centred on the concept of connectedness – recognizing local/ global connections, the commonalities all humans share, and how understanding how national borders have become practically irrelevant for many global actors.\n\nFive defining characteristics of global studies were identified by scholars at the first annual meeting of the Global Studies Consortium in Tokyo in 2008:\n\nThe field of global studies revolves around the impacts of globalization and the growing interdependence of states, economies, societies, cultures, and people. This necessitates that students are well versed and capable of critical analysis when it comes to global issues. Some of the most pressing issues in global studies are national security and diplomacy, effective citizenship in a participatory democracy, global competitiveness in a world market and the desire to enter the aid and development sector.\n\nThe first major funding for international education was the 1966 International Education Act in the US. It provided funding to institutions of higher education to create and strengthen international studies programs. Created at the time of the Cold War, this act stressed the need for all citizens (with a focus on USA citizens) to understand global issues in order to build skills for diplomacy.”The importance of diplomacy as a driving force for political development is well known and understood. It is of great importance as a long term instrument for conflict prevention.”\n\nThe development of issues and crisis on a global scale such as international terrorism, climate change and environmental degradation, pandemics (such as ebola), and the Great Recession have convinced policymakers of the importance of global studies and international education to national security and diplomacy.\n\nA second motivation for global studies is facilitating a better understanding of the global marketplace. Many international companies have identified the need for a workforce that has the skills to work cross-culturally and identify and serve the needs of a global market. Some international companies, such as Microsoft, have taken the lead in convening policymakers and key stakeholders to demand additional investment in education. The US state and federal governments have also placed global studies as a key priority for preparing a competitive workforce. Furthermore, in 2002 the Australian federal government (through its development body AusAID) used some of its funding to introduce a ‘Global Education Program.’ This program aims to increase understanding of development and international issues among Australian students. It provides teachers with professional development opportunities with NGOs and thorough curriculum support. The program “informs and encourages teachers to introduce students to global issues in a classroom setting.” Higher education institutions have closely followed with integrating international studies across disciplines. It is rare to find a leading business school without an international focus.\n\nA third motivation for global studies is the creation of an effective citizenry. In the US, the National Council of Social Studies states that the purpose of social studies is to “teach students the content knowledge, intellectual skills, and civic values necessary for fulfilling the duties of citizenship in a participatory democracy.” A key goal of the NCSS is “global education”. As globalization causes the lines between national and international to become blurred, it becomes increasingly important for citizens to understand global relationships. The creation of effective Global citizenship results in people who are willing to, and have the capacity to become involved in local and global issues. In the UK, local government research conducted in the surrounding areas of London has found that citizens must have the opportunity to become involved and then possess the skill, knowledge and confidence to take part. The outcomes are often very positive, leading to an improvement in services, better quality of democratic participation and community education. \nTo achieve effective citizenship, students must be educated in ways that engage and place emphasis on the importance of global issues. By studying a subject such as global studies, students can gain the knowledge required to become effective citizens.\n\nSome critical scholars note that beyond content, students must be taught \"global cognition\" in order to truly understand global perspectives. These scholars believe that in order to fully understand world issues, students must recognize that their perspective is not necessarily shared by others and understand the social forces that influence their views. These perspectives encourage engagement with new promises and threats for the promotion of human rights, social justice, and political participation.\n\nBy 2006, the international development sector had expanded exponentially, with the “NGO sector now being the 8th largest economy in the world ... employing nearly 19 million paid workers.\" Financing health projects used to be the biggest issue in global aid, but private and public organizations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have helped overcome such problems. The issue now is making sure that the money is used in a proper manner to help those in need of the primary essentials of life. Studying global studies may lead to involvement in the aid and development sector in multiple ways. These can include working in post-conflict or natural disaster zones, improving public services in developing communities (health, education, infrastructure, agriculture) or aiding private sector growth through business and market models. Through studying global studies, students can be equipped with cross cultural knowledge, field experience and an awareness of global issues. Many students are now studying global studies in order to enter this sector.\n\nLearning outcomes for global studies vary depending on the institutes curriculum and students individual focuses. Although, introductory courses are designed to cover a wide range of topics in a single semester, students are expected to delve into a specific phenomenon or area of study for their academic career. there are some generic outcomes that students are expected to develop over the duration of study. These include, but are not limited to:\n\nGlobal studies scholars are eligible for a myriad of professions, tackling political, social, and economic issues on an international scale that work to improve the human condition.\n\n\nUniversity of Cape Town\nhttps://www.news.uct.ac.za/article/-2010-12-06-global-studies-programme-gives-students-larger-perspective\n\nHamline University, Saint Paul\nHofstra University\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58293940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58293940", "title": "Group piano", "text": "Group piano\n\nGroup piano is the study of how to play the piano in a group setting. This contrasts with the more common individual/private lesson. Group piano originated at the beginning of the nineteenth century, and continues to be a widely-used method of piano instruction. Group lesson formats include master classes, university classes, and pre-college music lessons. These classes typically have between 3 and 16 students. Benefits of the group lesson format include the development of independent learning, ensemble playing, critical listening skills, and exposure to a wide range of repertoire. Group piano instruction may require more space and equipment, increased preparation per class, and more attention to scheduling and group interaction than when teaching individual/private lessons. \n\nGroup piano instruction can be traced to Johann Bernhard Logier (1777-1846). Logier, an Irish business man, developed a system of teaching that increased income for teachers while lowering the cost of lessons for students. His classes accommodated up to thirty students of differing skill levels. The focus of the class was developing music theory and keyboard theory rather than developing advanced technique. Due to the affordability of Logier's class format, it quickly gained traction in Great Britain, India, Ireland, and the United States. \n\nMaster classes were often taught by well-known pianist/composers. Clara Schumann, Franz Liszt, Felix Mendelssohn, Carl Tausig, Anton Rubinstein, Theodore Kullak, and Hans von Bülow were some of the most famous teachers to teach in this format. These classes occurred in the homes of teachers as well as in newly-formed conservatories.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution and ensuing rise of the middle class in the 19th century provided increased opportunities for leisure activities and created a high demand for pianos. By the end of the 19 century, the United States was a world leader in the production of pianos, and families all over the country owned a piano and sought music instruction. In 1889 the U.S. Office of Education promoted class piano programs in elementary schools as a viable way for students to get an affordable music education. The first group piano classes in public schools launched in 1913 and grew until the 1930s. As a result, method books for teaching piano in the classroom began to be published. These included \"Young Student’s Piano Course\" by Earhart and Boyd (1918), \"Public School Class Method for Piano\" (1919) by Giddings and Gilman, and \"Steps for the Young Pianist\" (1919) by Hazel Kinsecella. By the end of the 1920s, over eight hundred elementary schools in the United States offered class piano programs, creating a demand for teacher training courses and certificate programs. However, in the 1930s, interest in elementary class piano programs began to decline due in part to the great depression and the second world war.\n\nAs group piano declined in public elementary schools, group lessons in the college setting began to gain momentum. Throughout the 1930s and 1940s, Raymond Burrows, a professor at Columbia University Teachers College, pioneered collegiate group piano instruction using piano labs. By 1952, Burrows calculated that 256 universities in the United States provided group piano classes. These courses were designed to provide music majors with functional keyboard skills that would aid them in their musical careers; these classes focused on harmonization, transposition, and sight-reading. Because most university piano teachers were more familiar with the individual/private lesson format, universities began to offer in teaching group piano. Group piano lessons in the college setting continued to expand with the invention of the electronic keyboard laboratory, first achieved by Ball State University in 1956. \n\nIndependent pre-college piano studios continued to implement the group piano format. During the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, Robert Pace, James Bastien, and Frances Clark began to write books encouraging partner lessons, group lessons, and various combinations of group and private instruction. By the end of the 1970s, group piano was established as profitable format for instruction. The Music Teachers National Association (MTNA) and the National Piano Foundation (NPF) began to provide training on teaching in groups, and journals such as \"American Music Teacher, Piano Quarterly\", \"Keyboard Companion\", and \"Clavier\" began publishing articles related to teaching in groups. \n\nPre-college group piano classes are designed for students ranging in age from 4-18. Groups are usually created based on student experience and skill level. Pre-college group piano lessons may take place in a private studio with multiple keyboards or a piano lab in a school. Lessons may include a mixture of playing piano and activities away from the piano. There are group piano method books available and most methods can be adapted to fit group lessons.\n\nMost North American university music departments provide group piano classes. The National Association of Schools of Music (NASM), the principal U.S. accreditation organization of approximately 643 institutions educational programs in music and music-related disciplines, includes “keyboard competency” in their handbook as a necessary requirement for music students to graduate. Group piano classes are the most widely-used format for teaching keyboard competency to college students due to its efficiency and the advantages of group learning. Advocates for collegiate group piano have stated that it is the “most effective and efficient tool” for enabling students to be independent learners so they can continue to make music for a lifetime. While NASM does not define \"keyboard competency\", there is a general consensus among universities that competency should include functional piano skills such as the playing of repertoire, harmonization, transposition, sight-reading, open score reading, and improvisation. \n\nThe structure of college level group piano classes varies by university. Group piano sequences typically involve 2 to 6 semesters, situated within the first 2 or 3 years of study. Goals of the group piano sequence include introducing and reinforcing functional keyboard skills, bringing students with varying musical background to a competent level by the end of the course, and nurturing enthusiasm for music in general and the piano specifically. At the end of the course sequence, music majors must often take a piano proficiency exam. Most piano proficiency exams require students to transpose, harmonize, sight-read, and perform a piece of solo piano repertoire. \n\nGroup piano lessons are often taken by adults as a hobby and for personal development. They may take place in a private studio with multiple keyboards or a piano lab in a college community program. Because of the wide range of students, groups should be formed based upon students’ life span development stage or level of experience. These lessons are often more flexible than pre-college and collegiate classes and involve more collaborative decision making. The relatively new field of andragogy can inform teachers that engage in the teaching of adult group piano. Sponsored by the National Piano Foundation (NPF) and the National Association of Music Merchants (NAMM), Recreational Music-Making (RMM) is an approach to teaching adults that recognizes personal, social, and health-based benefits to music study in addition to the development of musical skills and concepts. \n\nPartner lessons take place when two students share a lesson. They may share an entire lesson, or their lesson times may overlap. One student may come for 20 minutes of private instruction and then be joined by another student for 20 minutes of partnered instruction. After the partner time, the second student will receive 20 minutes of private instruction. In this way, each hour lesson provides opportunity for collaboration with a peer as well as private instruction from the teacher. \n\nHybrid piano lessons are any other combination of private and group piano lessons. This may include biweekly, monthly, or more occasional group meetings for students that are otherwise taking individual/private lessons. These types of lessons are often used as reinforcement of secondary or functional skills such as music history and music theory. Occasional master classes, where students perform and receive feedback publicly, may also supplement individual/private instruction. This provides students with performance opportunities and a chance to observe and learn from their peers. \n\nBecause students do not receive constant individualized attention in group lessons, they may learn to become independent learners. The environment requires students to problem-solve and internalize practice techniques. Group lessons provide ample opportunities for discussion, critical listening, structural analysis, study of historical contexts, and collective decision-making. Collective decision-making allows students to solve the problem on their own with guidance from both the teacher and peers. This social learning can assist with developing independent learning. \n\nGroup piano lessons also expose students to a wider range of experiences through repertoire, performance opportunities, and ensemble playing. Students not only become familiar with their own repertoire, they have the opportunity to learn and think critically of the music being learned by their peers. This format may also help alleviate performance anxiety. Students have an audience on a weekly basis, which establishes a learning environment in which playing music for others is a natural part of the learning process. Group lessons provide an environment in which ensemble skills may be developed. Students may play duets, trios, and more.\n\nSome teachers have found that the group lesson format may increase motivation in piano students. They can be motivated by their fellow peers and develop more appreciation of the music through modeling. Peer learning might also create a sense of accountability within the cohort. Positive peer pressure encourages students to feel like they should master their piece for the class, either to avoid embarrassment or to contribute to the group.\n\nPiano labs, multiple keyboards, headphones, and a conference system require more space and upfront cost than individual/private lessons. Group lessons also require more planning and preparation for teachers, as they teach multiple students at once and for longer time periods. Another disadvantage that may occur with group piano teaching is complications in developing and scheduling cohorts with similar experience levels and background. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11051943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051943", "title": "Homeworker", "text": "Homeworker\n\nHomeworkers or home workers are defined by the International Labour Organization as people working from their homes or from other premises of their choosing other than the workplace, for payment, which results of a product or service specified by the employer. There are an estimated 300 million homeworkers in the world , though because these workers generally function in the informal economy, and are seldom registered and often not contracted, exact numbers are difficult to come by. Recently, the phenomenon of homework has grown with increased communication technology, as well as changes in supply chains, particularly the development of Just In Time inventory systems. Homeworkers are often employed in piece work.\n\nHomeworkers differ from entrepreneurs, or self-employed, or family business, in that they are hired by companies for specific activities or services to be done from their homes. Homeworkers do not own or operate the business they work for. Though there is a significant body of highly skilled homeworkers, particularly in information technology, most homeworkers are considered low skilled labour. Recently, working conditions have worsened for homeworkers , and they are becoming a point of concern for international development organizations and non-governmental organizations .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "203614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203614", "title": "Information mapping", "text": "Information mapping\n\nInformation mapping is a research-based method for writing clear and user focused information, based on the audience's needs and the purpose of the information. The method is applied primarily to designing and developing business and technical communications. It is used as a content standard within organizations throughout the world.\n\nThe information mapping method is a research-based methodology used to analyze, organize and present information based on an audience's needs and the purpose of the information. The method applies to all subject matter and media technology. Information mapping has close ties to information visualization, information architecture, graphic design, information design, data analysis, experience design, graphic user interface design, and knowledge management systems.\n\nInformation mapping provides a number of tools for analyzing, organizing and presenting information.\n\nSome of Robert E. Horn's best-known work was his development of the theory of information types. Horn identified six types of information that account for nearly all the content of business and technical communications. The types categorize elements according to their purpose for the audience:\nThe information mapping method proposes six principles for organizing information so that it is easy to access, understand, and remember:\nDocuments written according to information mapping have a modular structure. They consist of clearly outlined information units (\"maps\" and \"blocks\") that take into account how much information a reader is able to assimilate.\n\nThere is an essential difference between an information unit and the traditional text paragraph. A \"block\" is limited to a single topic and consists of a single type of information. Blocks are grouped into \"maps\", and each map consists only of relevant blocks. The hierarchical approach to structuring information greatly facilitates electronic control of content via content management systems and knowledge management systems.\n\nThe information mapping method offers advantages to writers and readers, as well as to an entire organization.\n\nInformation mapping offers these advantages for writers:\n\nInformation mapping offers these advantages for readers:\n\nAlso an entire organization can benefit from using a content standard like information mapping if the method is used with the following objectives in mind:\n\nInformation mapping was developed in the late 20th century by Robert E. Horn, a researcher in the cognitive and behavioral sciences. Horn was interested in visual presentation of information to improve accessibility, comprehension and performance. Horn's development of the information mapping method has won him recognition from the International Society for Performance Improvement and the Association for Computing Machinery.\n\nMany independent studies have confirmed that applying the information mapping method to business and technical communications results in quicker, easier access to information, improved comprehension and enhanced performance. It also facilitates repurposing for publication in different formats.\n\nDoubts have been raised over the strength of the research Horn uses to justify some of his principles. For instance, his chunking principle requires lists, paragraphs, sub-sections and sections in a document to contain no more than 7±2 chunks of information. Horn does not state where he got this principle, but an Information Mapping website stated that the principle is \"based on George A. Miller's 1956 research\". Miller did write a paper in 1956 called \"The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on our Capacity for Processing Information\", but its relevance to writing is tenuous. Miller himself said that his research had nothing to do with writing. Insisting that lists, paragraphs, sub-sections and sections throughout a document contain no more than 7±2 chunks of information paradoxically assumes that the size of what is not read in a document can influence a reader's ability to comprehend what they do read.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4821140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4821140", "title": "Jordan University of Science and Technology", "text": "Jordan University of Science and Technology\n\nThe Jordan University of Science and Technology ( \"Jami'at Al-Ulum wa Al-Tiknolojia Al-Urdunia\"), often abbreviated JUST, is a comprehensive, state-supported university located on the outskirts of Irbid, at Ar Ramtha in northern Jordan.\nSince its establishment in 1986, JUST has been at the forefront of institutions of higher learning in the Arab world, it also maintains a high reputation and standard amongst the universities of the Middle East. JUST and the University of Jordan in Amman are considered to be the two premier institutions of higher education for engineering and medicine in the country, although numerous other faculties and specializations are represented as well. The university was described as the best scientific institution in the Kingdom by King Abdullah II during a visit in November '10. As of the 2006/2007 academic year, JUST had 717 faculty members, with 20,000 undergraduate and 1559 graduate students, in contrast to 2,300 students in the 1986/1987 academic year. At the present time, the university comprises 12 faculties and 55 departments providing 52 bachelor's degree and 95 postgraduate programs. JUST comprised 5,415 international students of 61 nationalities in the academic year 2009/2010, rendering it the most cultural-diverse university in Jordan. It was ranked as the top research university in the country, and amongst the top 3% of universities in the Islamic world, according to a study carried out by the Statistical, Economic and Social Research and Training Center for Islamic Countries (SESRTCIC).\n\nA total of 2,300 students were enrolled in 1986. As of the academic year 2017/2018, about 25,000 undergraduate students and 2,500 graduate students were enrolled at the university, representing 51 nationalities. \n\nEach year the university grants over 3000 Bachelor and Master Degrees. The university started with 110 faculty members; now it hosts 750 faculty, of which 109 are full professors. The steady enrollment of the student body is grounded on the university's vision to raise and maintain the standards of higher education in Jordan, in parallel with national educational policies.\n\nHaving its roots at Yarmouk University in Irbid, JUST emerged as an independent university on September 1, 1986. JUST detached five faculties from Yarmouk University to form its academic nucleus. These faculties were: Faculty of Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Faculty of Nursing and Faculty of Engineering. Consecutively added to these faculties are Faculty of Science and Arts, Faculty of Medical Applied Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Computer and Information Technology, and Faculty of Agriculture.\n\n\nThe university campus is located in Ar Ramtha, 70 km north of Amman, the capital, and 20 km east of Irbid, the second largest Metropolis in Jordan. It covers an area of approximately 11 km², constructed according to modern architectural designs suitable to the nature of its faculties. The main campus is surrounded by a green cover of 135m². In addition to academic buildings and the JUST Library, the campus includes the university farm, 12 auditoriums, a concert hall, fine arts galleries and museums, as well as comprising athletic facilities including a 7000-seat soccer stadium, a multipurpose indoor arena, a swimming pool, a squash court, and a gym.\nThe university campus is divided into two sections, known as the Medical Faculties Complex, a group of buildings in the northern part of the university, comprising the faculties of Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Applied Medical Sciences, Pharmacy and Science and Arts, and the Engineering Faculties Complex, a group of buildings in the southern part of the university, compromising the faculties of Agriculture, Computer and Information Technology, Engineering, Architecture and Design and Veterinary Medicine. Students can use available buses to move from one complex to the other. Although there is a mini train on campus, it is not often used, and due to the relatively short distance between the two complexes many students prefer walking.\n\nThere are two libraries in JUST, one in the Engineering Faculties Complex and the other is in the Medical Faculties Complex. While both libraries give the students an appropriate and suitable place for reading and studying, the two-floor library at the Medical Faculties Complex is relatively larger, also contains 115,000 books, and 45,000 volumes of back issues of periodicals, which makes it the main library at the university. At the present time, a third library is being constructed in the area between the Engineering Faculties Complex and the Medical Faculties Complex which is larger in size than both existing libraries and is set to become the largest library in the Middle East.\n\nAside from the employees and guests restaurants, there are also three restaurants for students; one in each main campus, and one located near the soccer stadium.\n\nEvery department has a computer laboratory for the students to use. There are also two open labs one in each campus. Moreover, six additional labs are available for the graduate and undergraduate computer science students and students who are taking related courses at the PH building located at the Medicine Faculties Building. The campus is covered by a secure wireless internet connection (WLAN).\n\nNamed after the first king of modern Jordan, Abdullah I bin al-Hussein, the King Abdullah University Hospital (KAUH) is the largest hospital in northern Jordan, serving approximately one million inhabitants of the Irbid, Ajloun, Jerash, and Mafraq governorates. It is also the teaching hospital affiliated with Jordan University of Science and Technology, located within the campus adjacent to the university's Medical Faculties Complex. The hospital is staffed with full-time physicians and surgeons who are faculty members of the JUST Faculty of Medicine, in addition to many others from the Ministry of Health, and the Royal Medical Services (RMS). The overall area of various hospital buildings is 95583m², in addition to a double story car park of 9000m² area. The hospital has a bed capacity of 683 which can be increased to 800 beds in an emergency situation.\n\nStructurally, the hospital is composed of a 15-story high-rise building, in which all hospital beds are located, and a 3-story low-rise buildings in which patient clinics, diagnostic and other services are located. The hospital is connected to various health science faculties via the ground floor of the low-rise building. The hospital includes the departments of General Surgery, Special Surgery, Emergency Department, Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Internal Medicine and Dermatology, Cardiac Center, Diagnostic X-Ray, Pathology and Laboratory, Endoscopy Unit, Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation, Physiology Function Test, Neuroscience, Nursing and Information System Department.\n\n\"Jordan University of Science and Technology\" is home to twelve faculties. The medium of teaching at the university; lectures, exams, and tuition, are primarily in English language, with Arabic being used mainly to facilitate student understanding as the greater majority of students are of Arab background.\n\nA group of building in the northern part of the university comprising the faculties of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Nursing, Applied Medical Sciences, and Science and Arts.\n\nThe JUST Faculty of Medicine, the second medical school in Jordan, was established in Yarmouk University at the northern city of Irbid in 1984; the faculty then branched out into Jordan University of Science and Technology in 1986. The faculty is closely associated with King Abdullah University Hospital, the teaching hospital where postgraduate students undergo their residencies.\nAs the faculty’s main teaching hospital, KAUH provide students with the opportunity to attend lectures, tutorials, clinics, ward rounds, and surgeries. Medical students graduating from JUST are widely renowned for their achievements in the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE), gaining postgraduate positions in well-known global institutions. Furthermore, the Faculty of Medicine has been an active participant in medical research and has hosted numerous international events and conferences, with focus on subjects in relation to myocardial protection and research, pediatrics, anesthesia, and internal medicine. As of September 2011, the faculty will be hosting the Fellow of the Royal College of Pathologists (FRC Path) Part 1 written exams in all Pathology specialties, which will enable Jordanian and Arab Pathologists to sit the exam outside the UK.\n\nThe Faculty of Medicine awards the Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) after completion of six years comprising three years of medical sciences and three clinical years. Students are admitted to medicine based solely on their grade point average in their high school national general exam (Tawjihi); there are neither entrance interviews nor psychometric exams. The cutoff average used for admissions into medicine is the highest among all the other disciplines offered by universities. For example, the cutoff average used over the past five years has been: 94.9 (2005), 96.3 (2006), 97 (2007), 96.8 (2008), and 97.7 (2009). Although in the minority, the faculty of medicine accepts students from Israel, Palestine, Syria, Arab states of the Persian Gulf, Malaysia, and other countries. Tuition is significantly higher for the foreign students. Initially, the faculty at JUST accepted 50 students into the program, but that number has grown to more than 200 in recent years.\n\nDuring the first year and a half of their program, students are taught basic science in a traditional format. In an integrated\nmodule fashion, the next year and half is devoted to studying nine body systems: cardiovascular, respiratory, hematopoietic, digestive, endocrine, musculoskeletal, neuroscience 1 and 2, and reproductive and urinary. Towards the end of the third year students begin direct contact with patients in hospital settings. The last three years are spent in supervised inpatient and outpatient settings to develop their diagnostic and treatment competencies; the clinical years begin fully at the beginning of year 4 where students rotate through various areas of general clinical medicine. Year 5 continues this pattern focusing more on specialized areas of medicine and surgery. In total, students are required to complete 257 hours of classes divided among compulsory and elective courses. After completion of their 6th year, students are required to complete internship (imtiaz), which is a one-year term in general practice for which they are not compensated for.\n\nEvaluations are based primarily on written exams (marks are based on two midterms and one end of term exam) and percentage grades appear on transcripts. Practical exams are solely based on an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) type of standardized exams. In the final year, the school of medicine invites external examiners (from the United States, Britain, among others) to participate in student evaluations and to benefit from the experience of others.\n\nStudents looking to specialize can apply for residency programs after completion of imtiaz (internship). Most residency programs are four years in length, but notable exceptions include neurosurgery (6 years), general surgery (5 years), orthopedic surgery (5 years), and urology (5 years). Residency programs are divided into two broad groups: major and minor specialties. Major programs include internal medicine, pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, while the rest are considered minor. This division reflects the number of available seats and thus the competitiveness of each specialty. Faculty of Medicine\n\nThe Faculty of Dentistry at Jordan University of Science and Technology was founded by a royal decree on 16 September 1983 and the first group of students was admitted in the academic year 1984/1985. The faculty offers facilities for undergraduate and postgraduate training and is developing programs for all professionals in dentistry who wish to continue their education and obtain further qualifications. Faculty of Dentistry\n\nThe Faculty of Pharmacy, the first in Jordan, was established as a department of the Faculty of Medical Sciences at Yarmouk University by a royal decree in 1979. The rapid growth and development of the department led to the transformation of the department into an independent faculty on September 19, 1983. Three years later -in September 1986- the Faculty of Pharmacy became affiliated with JUST. Faculty of Pharmacy\n\nThe Faculty of Nursing was established in 1983 with only 2 faculty members and 23 students. It currently consists of 23 PhD, and 22 Masters prepared faculty members (Adult, Maternal Child, Community & Midwifery) placed in the four departments of the faculty; this body is supported by 27 MSN or BSN qualified clinical trainers. Faculty of Nursing\n\nThe Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences was established in 2000, and was housed in several makeshift facilities. It was created to educate allied health professionals to fill crucial shortages in the health care needs of the people in Jordan. The faculty has since become a dynamic and vital member of the university health team. The faculty also has a number of sponsored students who are pursuing graduate studies leading to M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in various majors at well-known universities in the USA, UK, and Australia. Upon graduation, they will join the faculty. Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences\n\nThe Faculty of Science and Arts was established by a decree from the Council of Higher Education on January 26, 1987. It commenced its duties as of September 1, 1987. The faculty, one of the oldest and largest at the university, holds seven departments and a program of forensic science, offers both bachelor's and master's degrees and gives students the chance to choose from a plethora of disciplines that employ several pedagogical approaches involving classroom instruction, independent research, student-as-teacher approach, and internships or practical experience. Faculty of Science and Arts\n\nA group of buildings in the southern part of the university comprising the faculties of Engineering, Agriculture, Information Technology, Architecture and Design, Veterinary Medicine, and Graduate Studies.\n\nThe Faculty of Engineering is the largest faculty in the university, with its 61 research and teaching labs. It comprises the departments of Biomedical Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Mechanical Engineering power and mechatronics, and Nuclear Engineering. The Faculty takes part and is accredited by the United States Engineering Accreditation Commission (EAC) of (ABET).\n\nThe Faculty of Agriculture was established by a royal decree on October 2, 1985. Study began at the faculty in 1989/1990 with 71 students, to grow into over 1100 students in the academic year 2006/2007, including 100 graduate students. The faculty began with only nine faculty members upon its establishment. Currently, the number has increased into 48 faculty members in four academic departments.\n\nThe Faculty of Information Technology was established in 2000 and has built an international reputation for excellence in teaching, research, and services since then. The Faculty consists of five departments: Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Computer Information System, Software Engineering, and Network Engineering. As one of the largest faculties with 42 faculty members and 1972 students, it is consistently ranked as one of the Middle East's top and essential learning bodies of information and technology as attested by many institutions and specialists.\n\nThe Faculty of Architecture and Design awards both bachelor's degrees and master's degrees and comprises the departments of architecture and urban planning. It participates yearly in the Arab Architectural Graduation Project Exhibition, which started as Bilad Al Sham Graduation Project Exhibition.\n\nThe Faculty of Veterinary Medicine was established at JUST in 1990 as a response to the national objective of improving animal health and productivity by increasing their efficiency and thereby reducing the cost of animal production. It is the only Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Jordan. It also houses a Veterinary Health Center (VHC), which serves the purpose of clinical training for students and provides veterinary services to the public. The faculty is a research and a consultative center, in addition to its basic function in promoting and sustaining high standards of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. The faculty is an active member of the Arab Association of Veterinary Medical Faculties and it houses its office.\n\nThe Faculty of Graduate Studies provides advanced studies in different fields including Medicine, Applied Medical Sciences, Science, Nursing, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Veterinary Medicine, Agriculture, Engineering and Computer Technology. The faculty is entrusted with setting the rules and regulations pertinent to graduate programs and degrees and pursuing the implementation of these regulations.\n\nEach faculty is best known with a color:\nSince its establishment, JUST has given its utmost priority to academic research. In this vein, the Deanship of Research commenced its activities at the early stages of the university establishment during the academic year 1986/1987. Research, basic and applied, is amongst the principal priorities of the university. Training and supervision in research methodology, especially for postgraduate students, is reinforced by several research centers, such as the Queen Rania Center for Environmental Science and Technology, Consultative Center for Science and Technology, Energy Center, Pharmaceutical Research Center, Princess Haya Biotechnology Center, and the Agricultural Center for Research & Production.\n\nResearch funding has steadily grown since the establishment of JUST in 1986, and an average of 200 research projects are sponsored and funded each year. As testimony to this development, JUST was ranked as the top research university in Jordan, and amongst the top 3% universities in the Islamic world, according to a study carried out by the Ankara-based Statistical, Economic and Social Research and Training Center for Islamic Countries (SESRTCIC).\n\nNature Journal has reported Jordan as having the highest number of researchers in research and development per million people among all the 57 countries members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). In Jordan there are 2,000 researchers per million people, while the average among the members of OIC is 500 researchers per million people. This means that the number of researchers per population in Jordan, is higher than Italy, Israel and Greece and just close to the number in United Kingdom and Ireland.\n\nThe Deanship of Research at JUST is the administrative and technical body that facilitates, regulates and observes the processes concerning research. It works in a collaborative and complementary manner with other faculties and administrative bodies of the university. Any research on humans should be approved by the Institutional Research Board (IRB) and any research on animals should be approved by the university Animal Care and Use Committee (ACUC) before being funded. Deanship of Research\n\nIn consistence with Jordan's efforts to develop and use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and lessen its dependence on fossil fuel, and in co-ordinance with the Department of Nuclear Engineering of JUST, a nuclear research reactor, the first in the country, has been set to be built in the university campus which will serve as an integral part of the nuclear technology infrastructure of Jordan.\n\nThe five-megawatt (MW) nuclear research reactor, which was inaugurated in December 2016, will become the focal point for a Nuclear Science and Technology Center (NSTC) in JUST, playing the primary role in educating and training the upcoming generations of nuclear engineers and scientists, and providing irradiation services in support of the Jordanian industrial, agricultural and health/medical infrastructures.\n\nThe nuclear research reactor center will include radioisotope production and training facilities, future expansion of the center will include a fuel fabrication plant, as well as radioactive waste and cold neutron facilities. The reactor, which will be upgradeable to 10MW, will facilitate the training of nuclear operators and technicians as well as advanced nuclear research in neutron sciences and the commercial production of radioisotopes, it will also allow for practical experience for Jordanians in nuclear energy, reactor physics, radiochemistry and radiation protection. The research reactor is considered by Jordan Atomic Energy Commission (JAEC) officials to be an important precursor to Jordan's first nuclear power plant, a 750-1,000MW Generation III reactor to be built in an area in Mafraq 40 kilometers northeast of Amman and 15 kilometers away from the Hashemite University.\n\nOn 1 November 2010, the university inaugurated the first Internet Reactor Laboratory in the country. The reactor laboratory links the university's nuclear engineering department with the U.S PULSTAR research reactor at North Carolina State University, making it the first U.S research nuclear reactor to be used for educational purposes outside the United States. The new laboratory will enable JUST nuclear engineering students to use the PULSTAR reactor and observe the reactor's behavior under certain conditions via a virtual control panel. The project was set up in cooperation with the Jordan Atomic Energy Commission, U.S Department of State, and the International Atomic Energy Agency.\n\nDuring a visit to the university in November 2010, King Abdullah unveiled a model for the 5-megawatt Jordanian research and training facility, calling for creating institutional frameworks to increase investments in research, encourage and support innovative individuals, and lauding the university for the advanced level it has achieved in various sciences.\n\nInternational Business Machines Corp. (IBM) and the Jordan University of Science and Technology (JUST) are set to create a Center of Excellence for Service Science Innovation at the university's campus in Irbid. The new centre will deliver teaching resources and technology expertise to students over a cloud computing infrastructure - the first system of its kind in the Middle East. IBM consultants will also support JUST with curriculum development and provide expertise in the area of service science, management and engineering (SSME).\n\nThe solution will be based on IBM's CloudBurst, which is an integrated service delivery platform that includes BladeCenter technology, storage, networking, virtualization and service management software. The workload-optimized system will provide JUST with a private cloud environment as a platform for innovation. IBM will also help to coordinate the centre and assist JUST in developing new curricula on key technology areas such as Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Business Processes Management (BPM), Business Analytics, Business Processes Optimization (BPO), Service Science and Cloud Computing. IBM will use its expertise in these areas and draw on skills from its research and development laboratories to help develop educational resources and run workshops, courses, internships and certification programs. The initiative will support the university in driving skills and expertise in services science to the benefit of national schools, higher education and research establishments in Jordan and beyond.\n\nThe library collection comprises 115,000 books, and 45,000 volumes of periodicals back issues. In organizing its collection, the Library adopts the Library of Congress Classification Scheme, and uses the Anglo-American Cataloging Rules (AACR2) and the International Standard of Bibliographic Description (ISBD).\n\nTo cope with the new technologies in the field of library and information science, the library started in 1993 to offer retrieved information services through a good number of necessary databases, which are published on CD-ROM or online (WAN) subscriptions.\nThere are two libraries in JUST, one in the Engineering Faculties Complex and the other is in the Medical Faculties Complex. While both libraries give the students an appropriate and suitable place for reading and studying, the two-floor library at the Medical Faculties Complex is relatively larger, also contains 115,000 books, and 45,000 volumes of back issues of periodicals, which makes it the main library at the university.At the present time, a third library is being built in the area between the two complexes and is larger in size than both existing libraries and is set to become the largest library in the Middle East.\n\nThe university issues a quarterly journal called the \"Jordan Journal of Civil Engineering\" (JJCE). The journal is internationally peer-reviewed. Subjects covered include applications of civil rehabilatations, structural control, smart materials, earthquake engineering, geotechnical engineering and soil/rock mechanics, dam engineering, traffic and transportation engineering, water and environmental engineering, construction management and project planning, surveying and mapping, and infrastructures engineering, as well as numerical and analytical methods.\n\nThe Deanship of Research is responsible for the funding of research publications by staff members and students, as well as managing the Jordan Journal of Civil Engineering.\n\nJust for Just, is an electronic newspaper initiated by the students of the university.\n\nA students' union is elected annually to represent the students. Student clubs that are responsible for organizing various events throughout the academic year. Of the most prominent of these clubs are the Medical Club, Great Arab Revolt Club, Media Club, Science Club, International student Club, Chess Club, and Culture Club.\n\nThe number of international students at JUST continues to rise; in the academic year 2005/2006, more than 3,500 students of 48 nationalities came from outside Jordan. As of the academic year 2009/2010, the university comprised 5,415 international students from 61 different nationalities, rendering it the most cultural-diverse university in Jordan. The International Student Office (ISO) was established in 2005 and is supervised directly by the president. Highly qualified coordinators and staff provide cultural, social and legal consultation, field trips, social events, and meetings with the president. An International Community Fair takes place annually at the university with the aim of encouraging and promoting cross-cultural communication and diversity in the workplace.\n\nThe first building was established in 1993. Due to increasing demand, the number of buildings was gradually raised to eight fully occupied buildings. Each building consists of four floors, the ground floor included. Each floor consists of two major wards, each of which contains eleven rooms, in addition to an adequate number of bathrooms and showers associated with each ward. Each building offers three types of rooms, as follows:\n\nHealth care is available to all students, the cost of which is included in the semester fees. It covers 100% of most services offered by the University Health Centers, including King Abdullah University Hospital (KAUH) and the JUST Health Center (HC). The university provides free life insurance coverage to all students. JUST Health Center (HC) in Irbid was established in 1983 to provide medical care to students, faculty and staff. It is also a teaching center for the residency program of family medicine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13556889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13556889", "title": "Judith Hanson Lasater", "text": "Judith Hanson Lasater\n\nJudith Hanson Lasater is an American yoga teacher and writer in the San Francisco Bay Area.\n\nShe was an early disciple of B.K.S. Iyengar and helped to popularize both Iyengar and Restorative Yoga.\n\nLasater holds a doctorate in East-West psychology and is a physical therapist, and has taught yoga since 1971.\nLasater is President of The California Yoga Teachers Association (CYTA), which she cofounded in 1974.\n\nIn addition, Lasater is a founder of the Iyengar Yoga Institute in San Francisco as well as a founder of Yoga Journal magazine, where she continues to serve on the advisory boards. She is a regular presenter at the annual Yoga Journal Conference.\n\nLasater has been called \"One of the nation’s foremost (yoga) instructors,\" and a \"yoga teaching star,\" having led workshops in 44 states plus Australia, Bolivia, Canada, China, England, France, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, and Russia.\n\nShe is the mother of three grown children.\n\nLasater has authored articles and yoga books such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1624589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624589", "title": "List of United States regional mathematics competitions", "text": "List of United States regional mathematics competitions\n\nMany math competitions in the United States have regional restrictions. Of these, most are statewide.\n\nFor a more complete list, please visit here .\n\nThe contests include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42081815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081815", "title": "List of archives in Croatia", "text": "List of archives in Croatia\n\nThis is list of archives in Croatia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "395095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395095", "title": "List of libraries", "text": "List of libraries\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable libraries around the world. It includes both notable public lending libraries and research libraries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41693648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41693648", "title": "Lists of Internet Archive's collections", "text": "Lists of Internet Archive's collections\n\nThere are over 20,000 collections of texts, audio, moving images, software, data and archived web pages in the Internet Archive at archive.org.\n\nAll users of archive.org can upload their free files to the community collections.\n\nThese collections contain items from external sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "55847137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55847137", "title": "Mary Coco Maltez de Callejas", "text": "Mary Coco Maltez de Callejas\n\nMary Coco Maltez de Callejas (7 March 1925-22 February 2016) was a Nicaraguan feminist, teacher and politician. She was a founding member of both the Union of American Women and Ala Femenina, serving as the vice president of the latter organization from its founding in 1955 to 1971, when she became President. She was one of the first three women to run for and be elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1957. After her initial election, she served in the National Assembly until 1979. Between 1969 and 1979, she served as the Minister of Education. In her latter years, she participated in the Alliance of Pan American Round Tables.\n\nPura María del Socorro Maltez Huezo, known as Mary Coco, was born on the 7 March 1925, in Managua, Nicaragua to Isabel Huezo and Manuel Maltez. She was one of the founding members of the Union of American Women (, organized by Josefa Toledo de Aguirre in 1942. She graduated from the Escuela Normal Central in Managua in 1943.\n\nMaltez began her career as a teacher and in 1950, married Reinaldo Santiago Jose Jimmy Callejos Callejos. In 1955, along with Clementina Arcia, Gladys Bonilla Muñoz, Amelia Borge de Sotomayor, Esperanza Centeno Sequeira, Zaida Fernandez de Ruiz, Evelina Mayorga, Lucrecia Noguera Carazo, Olga Núñez Abaunza, Ofelia Padilla, and Gloria Zeledón, Maltez de Callejas founded the magazine, \"Ala Femenina\", as the press organ of the organization by the same name. While a feminist organization, the group was a partisan organization and devoted to liberalism and the Nationalist Liberal Party, with the majority of its members were middle-class professional women. From the organization's founding, Maltez de Callejas served as the vice president, until the death of president Olga Núñez Abaunza in 1971, when she became president of Ala. Maltez de Callejas was one of the most influential feminists of her era.\n\nIn 1957, the first year women were allowed to vote in Nicaragua, Maltez de Callejas, Núñez, Mirna Hueck de Matamoros became the first women candidates to run for public office. Núñez was elected as a Deputy to the National Assembly and the other two women were elected as alternates. During the Somoza regime, Ala became aligned in a power arrangement with Somoza, whereby women were increasingly given political office in exchange for their support of his regime. Between 1963 and 1967, Maltez de Callejas served in the Chamber of Deputies. She was appointed Vice-Minister of Education in 1967 and the following year was appointed as Minister of Education. Between 1972 and 1974, she was a delegate to the Constituent National Assembly and then served again in the Chamber of Deputies from 1974 to 1979.\n\nWhen the Sandinista National Liberation Front, overthrew the government of Anastasio Somoza DeBayle, Maltez de Callejas went into exile for a lengthy period of time. She returned to Managua in 2001 and was involved in organizing the Alliance of Pan American Round Tables, continuing her involvement in the organization through 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "33267111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33267111", "title": "McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association", "text": "McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association\n\nThe McGill University Non-Academic Certified Association (MUNACA) is a labour union at McGill University representing roughly 1700 non-academic support staff.\n\nMUNACA was formed in 1992 and certified as a union by the Quebec Labour Relations Commission in 1993. Its first president, Allan Youster, was a former president of the non-unionized McGill University Non-academic Staff Association (MUNASA) for ten years.\n\nMUNACA tabled its proposal for a first collective agreement in August 1995. In late summer 1996, MUNACA requested the appointment of a conciliator due to stalled negotiations and a multi-year salary freeze. Conciliation began on September 17, 1996, but the conciliator stated that an impasse had been reached on April 9, 1997 over issues of salary and job security, leading McGill to call in an arbitrator with the authority to set the terms of an agreement. In 1998, MUNACA members voted to engage in pressure campaign, including sizeable protests supported by fellow unions SEIU Local 800 (property services) and AGSEM (teaching assistants). Meanwhile, attrition reduced the size of the union by 500. In February 1999, MUNACA members voted overwhelmingly in favor of a contract which included a retroactive 3.5% salary increase with 1% progression followed by a 1.5% increase with 1.5% progression. The contract eliminated discretionary merit increases, placed greater (but not exclusive) weight on seniority in job selection, and included a compromise on employment security. Non-unionized staff also received largely the same salary increase.\n\nNegotiations began for a second collective agreement in November 2002. In September 2003, the university added a new demand to the table: increasing work hours for MUNACA members without additional compensation. In response, MUNACA members authorized pressure tactics, including a protest, and suspended talks until the demand was rescinded. Concern about overwork of MUNACA members was raised by faculty and MUNASA members at the McGill Senate. McGill later withdrew the demand for increased working hours and the parties entered conciliation at McGill's request. In December 2003, MUNACA members overwhelmingly rejected McGill's offer and authorized a strike. They also participated in a voluntary half-day walkout and demonstration. Partly at issue were floating holidays and summer Fridays. Later in December, MUNACA members voted to accept a contract offering 2% scale increases and 2.2-2.5% progressions, along with compensation for the loss of summer Fridays and an increase in salary minima.\n\nAs MUNACA was not affiliated with any larger union, several attempts were made by both members and external unions to affiliate, sometimes leading to strife. Additionally, MUNACA was forced to deal with representatives sending messages judged prejudicial to the good name of the union. In March 2005, MUNACA raised dues by 10% to implement a strike fund in preparation for the next round of negotiations.\n\nNegotiations for a third collective agreement began on December 17, 2007. The university originally offered annual scale increases of 2% and progression of 2.5% and reiterated requests for increased work hours and reform of summer Fridays. However, on February 7, 2008, the university tabled new demands, reducing its salary offer to scale increases of 1% and progression of 1-1.5% and requesting an end to employment security for newer employees. After reaching an impasse, the union called a general meeting on August 28, 2008, days before the start of the school year, to vote to reject McGill's offer and authorize pressure tactics, up to and including a strike, in response. With the room filled to capacity and some workers denied entry by security guards due to fire codes, a fire alarm was pulled, forcing an evacuation and preventing the strike vote from taking place. Soon after, an agreement in principle between the negotiation teams was reached including 1-2% scale increases and 1.5% progression, status quo on summer Fridays, night and weekend premiums, and lump sum payments for members at their pay maximum. However, 62% of MUNACA members rejected this proposal at a general assembly, largely due to the disparity in wage increase compared to other jobs at McGill. On September 23, 2008, MUNACA filed for conciliation after the university signaled it would not change its offer. On October 14, 2008, the university responded by offering 2% scale increases and 1% progression for four years, a better offer for employees at their pay maximum. MUNACA rejected this offer after meeting with its Council representatives. After the university responded by offering an 8.5% increase over three years, on December 4, 2008, the general membership voted 68.4% to formally reject the university's offer and 65.1% to authorize pressure tactics up to an including a general strike. In response, MUNACA held several demonstrations and printed several full page ads in major Montreal newspapers. The conciliator recommended a 9% salary increase over three years. Perhaps partly due to fear of striking during an economic downturn, MUNACA members voted 84% to accept the offer, though the recommendation was accepted \"without enthusiasm\", according to then-President Maria Ruocco.\n\nMembers of MUNACA became ineligible to sit on the McGill Senate upon unionizing, due to regulations permitting staff representation to only non-unionized staff. Because the formation of MUNACA reduced non-unionized staff from 2,719 to 781, the Senate Steering Committee considered the case. The Steering Committee recommended against allowing union members to sit on Senate, partly for fear they would vote as a bloc, and further recommended reducing non-unionized staff representation from six members to three. The recommendation to reduce staff representation was defeated, but MUNACA members remain ineligible to sit on Senate.\n\n"}
{"id": "25626286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25626286", "title": "Melikian-Ouzounian School", "text": "Melikian-Ouzounian School\n\nThe Melikian-Ouzounian School, established in 1921, was the first Armenian School in Cyprus. It was named after two prominent families, Melikian and Ouzounian. Education was closely linked to the Armenian Church Notre Dame de Tyre. In 1963, the Melikian-Ouzounian School was taken over by the Turks after inter-communal fighting between the Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.\n"}
{"id": "2144841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2144841", "title": "Mental management", "text": "Mental management\n\nMental Management explores, describes and studies the mental processes in their diversity. This psychology of cognitive consciousness was elaborated by Antoine de la Garanderie from the analysis of mental habits of numerous subjects.\n\nThe Mental Management theory was elaborated from numerous pedagogical dialogues since the 1970s.\n\nIt is linked to several previous theories, including the works on introspection by Jean Martin Charcot, Alfred Binet, Maine de Biran, the German school of Würzburg (Watt, , Bühler) and Albert Burloud, who was Antoine de la Garanderie's professor.\n\nThe fundamental concepts of Mental Management are evocation and mental project.\n\nAlthough it doesn't have a phenomenological goal, Mental Management is based on several concepts of characterization of evocation :\n\na great application is the game of capsule, likely played in the 6th floor of the X building\n\nAside this Mental management is used to organize therapeutical wealth in business organisation,\n\nand also to have a clear Mind for working and to strengthen working methods for the social problems at work.\n"}
{"id": "42458550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42458550", "title": "Michael Rosenak", "text": "Michael Rosenak\n\nProfessor Michael (Mike) Rosenak (December 23, 1932 – May 14, 2013) was an Israeli philosopher of Jewish education. He was Mandel Professor of Jewish Education at The Hebrew University in Jerusalem.\n\nMichael Rosenak was born in Germany but he grew up in the United States. He graduated Yeshiva University. He emigrated to Israel in 1958. In the 1960s, he taught a popular course at Hebrew University's program for overseas students, \"Basic issues in contemporary Jewish life.\"\nHe held various positions during his academic life, before becoming a full professor at the Melton Centre, and was also noted for his involvement in hands-on educational institutions, such as Kiryat Moriah (World Zionist Organization), the Pardes Institute, the development of the curriculum for the Independent Jewish Day School in London, the Mandel Institute, and many prestigious institutions of Jewish education around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14295934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14295934", "title": "Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art", "text": "Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art\n\nThe Monuments Men Foundation for the Preservation of Art is an American foundation, which honors the legacy of the men and women who served in the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program (known as the \"Monuments Men\") during and after World War II. Their heroic work of protecting and safeguarding civilization’s most important artistic and cultural treasures from armed conflict is unprecedented.\n\nIt was founded in 2007 by Robert M. Edsel, author of \"Rescuing Da Vinci\", \"The Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History\", and \"Saving Italy: The Race to Rescue a Nation's Treasures from the Nazis\". Raising public awareness is essential to the Foundation’s mission.\n\nThe Monuments Men Foundation is one of the recipients of the 2007 National Humanities Medals. The award cited it for \"sustained efforts to recognize the contributions of the scholar-soldiers of the Second World War.\"\n"}
{"id": "4246716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4246716", "title": "National Association of School Psychologists", "text": "National Association of School Psychologists\n\nThe National Association of School Psychologists (NASP) is the major national professional organization for school psychologists in the United States. Its stated mission is to \"represent and support school psychology through leadership to enhance the mental health and educational competence of all children.\" The vision of NASP is that all children and youth access the learning, behavior, and mental health support needed to thrive in school, at home, and throughout life. The four main purpose of this organization is \"a) to actively promote the interests of school psychology; b) to advance the standards of the profession; c) to help secure the conditions necessary to the greatest effectiveness of its practice; and d) to serve the mental health and educational interest of all children and youth\" .\n\nNASP provides standards for ethics and practice, and approves graduate training programs that sufficiently adhere to its training guidelines. NASP is a constituent member of the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) and although NCATE accredits units (such as colleges of education), not programs, it does provide \"national recognition\" status to NASP-approved programs located in units accredited by NCATE.\n\nThe organization also offers an opportunity for those who have successfully completed their graduate coursework, participated in a 1200-hour internship with at least 600 hours in a school setting, and received a score of at least 660 on the School Psychologist Praxis II Examination to apply for National Certification in School Psychology.\n\nWhile the American Psychological Association (APA) serves similar purposes through Division 16, one way that NASP differs fundamentally from the APA is in that it officially recognizes the specialist degree as the entry-level degree for the field, as opposed to the doctoral degree. The two organizations, however, are more complementary than competing. Many view NASP as the governing body for sub-doctoral school psychologists and the APA as the governing body for doctoral-level school psychologists, although there are many doctoral-level school psychologists who belong to NASP. Further, NASP approval of graduate programs does not compete with APA accreditation; the APA does not accredit non-doctoral programs, and NASP will more quickly approve programs that have already been APA-accredited. \n\nThe National Association of School Psychologists distributes two journals: \"School Psychology Review\", which is the second-largest psychology academic journal and includes research and theory related to school psychology, and \"School Psychology Forum: Research in Practice\", an electronic publication. NASP also publishes \"Communiqué\", which is the official newspaper of NASP, covering news, events, innovative practices, legislative developments, and other topics relevant to the field.\n\nThe National Association of School Psychologists was created on March 15, 1969 during a two-day national conference in St. Louis. NASP is the world's largest organization to serve the interests of school psychologists exclusively. NASP is govern by nationally elected officers and state-elected representatives to the NASP's primary legislative body, NASP Delegates Assembly. There are two delegate representatives in each of its four region with the executive council consisting of the elected officers and program managers. Including committee members, editors, etc. within the program manager areas, the governing body exceeds 200 individuals. The central office facilities is located in Bethesda, Maryland, where the policies and business of NASP are implemented . \n\n\n\nNASP provides a year-round membership and access to evidence-based resources, periodicals exploring the most current issues, and networking opportunities. There are different rates and categories offered to become a member such as regular member, student member, retired member, international member, and so forth. The memberships run from July 1-June 30. NASP offers a Find-A-Mentor Program where an individual can choose to become a mentor or find a mentor. This program provides support at all levels of professional growth and development. NASP also offers awards, grants, and scholarships . \n\nNASP Practice Model represents NASP's official policy regarding the delivery of school psychological services. The NASP Practice Model is one of the four major of parts of Professional Standards NASP 2010 and creates flexibility for agencies and professionals to develop policies and procedures that meet local needs, while also providing sufficient specificity to ensure appropriate, comprehensive service provision. The NASP Practice Model consists of two parts: Professional Practices and Organizational Principles. \n\n"}
{"id": "30359398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30359398", "title": "Nelly Moretto", "text": "Nelly Moretto\n\nNelly Moretto (20 September 1925 – 24 November 1978) was an Argentine composer and pianist.\n\nShe was born in Rosario, Argentina, and studied at the National Conservatory and the Torcuato di Tella Institute in Buenos Aires, and at the University of Illinois. She worked for a time at the electronic studio Estudio de Fonología Musical (EFM) at the University of Buenos Aires. She died in Buenos Aires.\n\nSelected works include: \n"}
{"id": "465810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465810", "title": "New Zealand Scholarship", "text": "New Zealand Scholarship\n\nFrom 2004, the New Zealand Scholarship is a New Zealand secondary school award gained at the end of Year 13, and provides financial support for study at a New Zealand university. It is intended for the top students of NCEA Level 3, the main secondary school leaving qualification.\n\nThe first scholarship examination by the University of New Zealand was held in May 1872. After 1962, scholarships were awarded by the Universities Entrance Board. The New Zealand Qualifications Authority took over the work of the Universities Entrance Board in 1991.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2003 scholarships were awarded to the top 3-4% of Bursary students. In response to the removal of separate scholarship examinations a group of teachers set up their own scholarship exam, later becoming the New Zealand Educational Scholarships Trust (NZEST).\n\nA \"NCEA Level 4\" qualification was proposed in the 1998 Cabinet paper \"Qualifications for Young People Aged 16 to 19 Years\" and the discussions that ensued concluded that there be an external examination and that scholarships be awarded. New Zealand Scholarship exams started in 2004. NZEST stopped its examinations and now provides financial assistance for students studying at NZ universities.\n\nThe 2004 examinations, in line with the NCEA, were criterion-referenced and produced some unexpected results distributions. Several reviews of the award and a media and political debate followed. The Scholarship examination was largely revamped. Scholarships in 2005 were awarded to the top three per cent of NCEA Level 3 candidates in the subject, given that examiners are satisfied a worthy standard has been met. Monetary awards were restructured and credit value was removed from the examinations.\n\nThe Scholarship is awarded by standards-based three-hour external examinations, which are mostly written exams. The grades are \"No Award\", \"Scholarship\" and \"Outstanding Scholarship\". Example of result table at NZQA\n\nThe 2004 examination of the New Zealand Scholarship by the New Zealand Qualifications Authority was marred by controversy, most notably the irregular pass rates (e.g. 0.9% pass rate for Biology 2004). The head of the Authority later resigned over this and allied issues.\n\nThe monetary awards are tenable at any New Zealand university, and all except single subject awards last for three years as long as a 'B' average is maintained. Candidates must gain at least three scholarships to be eligible for the Scholarship, Outstanding and Premier awards. All candidates are eligible for only one of the following monetary awards, except that up to two single subject awards can be awarded to a candidate, and a winner of a Top Subject Scholar Award who also passes a second scholarship subject is eligible for the additional $500 award. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30222678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30222678", "title": "Nonprofit Technology Resources", "text": "Nonprofit Technology Resources\n\nNonprofit Technology Resources (NTR) is a charitable nonprofit organization (NPO) inside Philadelphia, Pennsylvania that \"serves low-income people in Philadelphia by recycling used computers, providing hands-on work experience, and assisting community-based service organizations to use computers in their work.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55792573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55792573", "title": "Pass.ng", "text": "Pass.ng\n\nPass.ng is a self-testing online platform in Nigeria which allows users to practice for national exams through interactive modules. Founded in 2012 as Jamb-cbt.com, It won the airtel's \"Catapult-a-Startup\", the \"AAI pitch-fest competition\" and the \"West Africa Mobile Awards (WAMAS)\" in 2016. It also got an endorsement from Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board in 2015.\n\nIn an interview with Outliers Magazine, Samson Abioye said he got the idea for pass.ng after learning that over 70% of those who sit for national exams fail in Nigeria. He thereafter pitched the idea to his fellow undergraduates during their Industrial Training program with the ICT Unit of Ladoke Akintola University. He was joined by Abayomi Akanji, Imole Oluyemi and Joshua Adebagbo and they registered the new startup as Pass.ng. Abayomi went on to become the Head of mobile development and, Imole was the Product Design Lead, Joshua the Chief technology officer and Abioye Samson the Chief executive officer.\n\nPass.ng functions on a freemium pricing model. A limited amount of preparatory questions can be attempted for free, after which further usage requires loading a recharge card of the intended subscription price. During the initial stage, users had to go to the bank to pay the amount of their intended subscription (which most times is very little). The process was said to be tedious, time wasting and reportedly drove a lot of intending paying subscribers away. A model of sending the recharge card of the intended subscription was also developed but also wasn't helpful either as the founders got loads of recharges without knowing what to do with them. They have since decided to work with some of Nigerians telecom agent on a model of allowing the user to recharge on their lines the amount they wish to subscribe which will be deducted by the telcoms themselves and a percentage paid to pass.\n\n"}
{"id": "11378160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11378160", "title": "Preservation administrator", "text": "Preservation administrator\n\nPreservation administrators are librarians who are trained in the management of preservation in libraries and archives. The term is often used as a parallel term to conservator, an allied profession that is focused primarily on the corrective repair of artefacts. The term \"preservationist\" has fairly wide usage as a synonym for \"preservation administrator\" or a broader term for anyone active in the fields of conservation or preservation, but has never found professional favor.\n"}
{"id": "9997079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9997079", "title": "Pseudo-scholarship", "text": "Pseudo-scholarship\n\nPseudo-scholarship (from pseudo- + scholarship) is a work (e.g., publication, lecture) or body of work that is presented as, but is not, the product of rigorous and objective study or research; the act of producing such work; or the pretended learning upon which it is based.\n\nExamples of pseudo-scholarship include:\n"}
{"id": "23968401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23968401", "title": "Research Institute of Molecular Pathology", "text": "Research Institute of Molecular Pathology\n\nThe Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP) is a biomedical research center, which conducts curiosity-driven basic research in the molecular life sciences. \n\nThe IMP is located at the Vienna Biocenter in Vienna, Austria. The institute employs around 250 people from 36 nations, of which approximately 200 are scientists. The working language at the IMP is English. The IMP was established in 1985 and is funded by the pharmaceutical company Boehringer Ingelheim and research grants.\n\nIMP comprises 15 independent research groups performing basic biological research across the following areas: \n\nScientists at the IMP publish 60 to 90 papers in international peer-review journals per year: between 1985 and 2017, more than 2,000 research papers were published. 93 patents were filed based on discoveries made at the institute since 1985. IMP faculty was awarded 16 ERC Grants since the establishment of this grant scheme in 2007. Four IMP faculty members received Wittgenstein Awards since 1996. About one third of the faculty are elected members of EMBO. In 2017, Kim Nasmyth received the Breakthrough Prize in life sciences for work on cohesin that he had done at the IMP. \n\nIMP maintains a suite of in-house facilities, maintained in cooperation with IMBA, that provide support and scientific services to the scientists at IMP. In addition, the four research institutes of the Vienna Biocenter maintain a number of shared services jointly called \"VBC Core Facilities\" (VBCF). The services offered are available to all VBC scientists including IMP staff.\n\nThe establishment of the IMP was a joint venture by Boehringer Ingelheim and Genentech and initiated in 1985. Under the directorship of Max Birnstiel, the first institute building was opened in 1988.\n\nIn 1992, three institutes of the faculties of science and medicine of the University of Vienna moved into a nearby building, today's Max F. Perutz Laboratories (MFPL). This created the basis for referring to the area as the \"Vienna Biocenter\" (VBC).\n\nIn 1993, Boehringer Ingelheim took over the IMP shares of Genentech. Following Max Birnstiel's retirement in 1997, Kim Nasmyth became scientific director. \n\nIn 2006, two institutes of the Austrian Academy of Sciences were opened in the vicinity of the IMP: the Institute of Molecular Biotechnology (IMBA) and the Gregor Mendel Institute (GMI). The three institutes cooperate closely by maintaining shared facilities. In the same year, Barry Dickson became the IMP's scientific director.\n\nSince 2013, Jan-Michael Peters is scientific director of the IMP. In late 2016, the IMP moved into its new building, which was formally opened on 1 March 2017.\n\nThe \"VBC PhD Programme\" is an international PhD training program carried out jointly by the four Vienna Biocenter research institutes (IMP, IMBA, GMI and MFPL). Acceptance into the program is competitive and based on a formal selection procedure. There are two selections each year, deadlines are April 30 and November 15. Participation in the program is a condition for doing a PhD at the IMP.\n\nThe current IMP building at Campus-Vienna-Biocenter 1 was opened in 2017. It comprises 15,000 square meters of gross floor space and 8,000 square meters of net area, spread over eight levels. \n\nThe building contains 3,000 square meters for laboratories and 2,000 square meters for offices; its lecture hall seats up to 280 people. The buildings has six seminar rooms and technical facilities. Some facilities such as cafeteria, but also scientific services, are open to staff from other Vienna Biocenter entities and the IMP building is connected to the neighboring Institute of Molecular Biotechnology building through a bridge. \n\nSeveral features of the building refer to biological research: the facade features stripes should resemble DNA bands as seen in gel electrophoresis; the central elevator's glass covers are coated with dichroic foils which are also used in filters for light microscopy. The project costs of 52 million Euros were born by the IMP's main sponsor Boehringer Ingelheim.\n\nIn order to maintain a high standard of research, the IMP employs a process of continuous review and feedback. The Scientific Advisory Board (SAB), consisting of distinguished scientists, meets once a year and discusses the quality, significance, and main focus of research conducted at the IMP. The SAB is chaired by Leslie Vosshall of Rockefeller University. Its other members are Angelika Amon (Massachusetts Institute of Technology); Hans Clevers (Hubrecht Institute); Michael Hausser (University College London); Norbert Kraut (Boehringer Ingelheim); Dan Littman (New York University Langone Medical Center); Ruslan Medzhitov (Yale School of Medicine/HHMI); Tom Rapoport (Harvard Medical School); Dirk Schübeler (Friedrich Miescher Institute).\n\nThe operating budget of the IMP is provided largely by Boehringer Ingelheim. Support comes from grants awarded to individual scientists and projects by national and international funding agencies such as the Austrian Science Fund (FWF), Austrian Industrial Research Promotion Fund (FFG), the Vienna Science and Technology Fund (WWTF), Zentrum für Innovation und Technologie (ZIT), the City of Vienna, the Austrian federal government, the Human Frontier Science Program (HFSP), and the European Union (EU).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49431746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49431746", "title": "Safe Schools Coalition Australia", "text": "Safe Schools Coalition Australia\n\nThe Safe Schools Coalition Australia (SSCA) is a national network of organisations working with school communities to create safer and more inclusive environments for homosexual, intersex and gender diverse students, staff and families.\n\nPrior to November 2017, SSCA functioned as a group of organisations in Australia focused on LGBTIQ people in schools. Its mission is to create safe and inclusive schools for students, families and staff who are in these groups. The primary activity of the SSCA is the Safe Schools Program that was developed to give support to teachers and schools who had been seeking assistance in the creation of a more inclusive environment for LGBTIQ students and their families. The program began in Victorian schools in 2010 and expanded nationwide in 2013. The Program was the first of its kind in Australia. Schools are encouraged to customise the implementation of resources which are provided. The SSCA is managed by The Foundation for Young Australians and funded by various state governments. In October 2016 the federal government said that it would not renew its funding for the program. In December 2016, the Education Department took control of the program in Victoria.\n\nThe SSCA initially received bipartisan support from government. There is opposition to the program relating to sexuality and gender concepts being taught in schools. In response an independent review was conducted in 2016. While some changes have been made since the review's findings were published, it recommended no major changes to the program and found that it was consistent with the national curriculum. The report recommended an increase in the availability of guidance on the use of included materials. Other changes recommended and subsequently implemented include making the program only available to high schools, removing role playing activities and the requirement for parental consent before participation.\n\nIn 2017 the SSCA program ceased in New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory pulled out (and with Tasmania to pull out) of the Safe Schools Coalition Australia program, with each developing their own programs. As of July 2017, 54 schools in WA, Tas and NT were nominated as SSCA members.\n\nThe members of the Safe Schools Coalition Australia are The Foundation for Young Australians based in Victoria, Family Planning NSW, the Western Australian AIDS Council, the Sexual Health and Family Planning ACT, Shine SA - Sexual Health Information Networking & Education in South Australia, True Relationships & Reproductive Health, Queensland and Working it out in Tasmania.\n\nSchools are encouraged to join the coalition as members. The coalition began with 11 founding schools, including Methodist Ladies' College, Bellarine Secondary College, MacRobertson Girls' High School, Hallam Secondary and Princes Hill Secondary College. St Joseph's College in Melbourne is a Catholic school taking part in the program.\n\nIn November 2016 the Salvation Army said it supports the program. Later in November that endorsement was withdrawn with the Salvation Army saying that it, \"cannot unconditionally support the Safe Schools programs in Australia in their current form\". In December 2016 Bega Valley Shire Council voted to support the program. However, in January 2017 the council rescinded that support.\n\nIn describing the aims of the program, the Safe Schools Coalition Australia reports that \"75% of same sex attracted young people experience some form of homophobic abuse or bullying... A staggering 80% of young people experienced abuse and bullying while at school\", more than anywhere else. The \"All Of Us\" resource cites research on same sex attracted and gender diverse youth documented in the report, \"Writing Themselves in 3\", prepared by the La Trobe University's, \"Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health and Society\". Research on intersex Australians published in 2016 shows that, while 2% of Australians fail to complete secondary school, 18% of Australians born with intersex variations fail to do so due to issues around bullying, discrimination and pubertal medical interventions.\n\nResearch on student performance comparing those within to those without the program indicated gender diverse and same-sex-attracted young people did better with Safe Schools.\n\nThe first community-based LGBTIQ youth groups in the fields of social services were established in the United States in the late 1970s. In the 1980s and 1990s a sexual risk discourse dominated LGBTIQ issues in education policy in Victoria. Addressing school bullying with practical steps is a worldwide trend. The Safe Schools Coalition Australia provides resources such as this program as part of The National Safe Schools Framework which deals with the wider causes of bullying.\n\nThis voluntary program, developed by the Safe Schools Coalition, commenced in Victoria on 21 October 2010, and received national funding of $8 million in 2013. Federal funding for the program was sought by openly gay Senator Penny Wong, the (ALP) Finance Minister in 2013. It was formally launched in June 2014 by the (Liberal) Abbott Government. The program is focused on \"challenging the bullying and discrimination of the LGBTIQ community within the school setting\".\n\nThe program expanded nationally because of its success. Content was created by a number of experts in the field. Melbourne High School teacher Christopher Bush helped produce and write content. The program runs in every state of Australia and the Australian Capital Territory, and is planned to commence in the Northern Territory. As of mid February 2016, 490 schools were members of the program, and 86 organisations were supporters of the coalition. According to the official website as of September 2016, 545 schools are members, up from the February 2016 figure when a campaign against the program commenced. In NSW there were originally 120 schools registered, however the education department determined that 89 of those schools had never accessed resources and had no intention to do so in the immediate future.\n\nThe Safe Schools Program contains a range of materials from which principals and teachers may choose to include, allowing educators to decide what is appropriate for their schools. Some schools present no classroom material to students. There are four official guides, three official posters and eight lesson plans. Videos are available to accompany the lessons. In 2015, a teaching manual called \"All Of Us\" was launched, following approval by the federal Education Department. Authors of the manual include Margot Fink, a finalist for Young Australian of the Year in 2016. The guide includes information on teaching gender diversity, sexual diversity and intersex topics. Resource content includes a video of same sex attracted and gender diverse youth, as well as intersex film-maker Phoebe Hart. A children's story book, entitled The Gender Fairy, released in January 2016 and promoted by the Safe Schools Coalition, explains transgender issues for young children. Safe Schools Coalition co-founder, Roz Ward has compiled the accompanying notes for teachers and parents. Safe Schools material provides advice for secondary students faced with explicit-content-filters on computers and with resistance to displaying LGBTIQ posters. Child psychologist Michael Carr-Gregg says, \"The civil disobedience is not wise.\"\n\nThe material challenges notions of heteronormativity and promotes acceptance of LGBTIQ people. The goal is to achieve an understanding and tolerance of LGBTIQ individuals through education. Students are given the opportunity to challenge LGBT stereotypes. Another aim is to reduce the incidence of depression, suicide and self-harm. Representatives from Safe Schools are available to meet with parents, students and teachers upon request.\n\nSome school principals reported a decrease in same-sex attracted and gender diverse students being bullied. Testimony from students has explained how the program improves the learning environment. There are reports that the introduction of the program has reduced the prevalence of homophobic and transphobic language at schools. In some instances the mere knowledge that a school is part of the coalition has increased the level of safety felt by LGBTIQ students.\n\nSome parents of students who took part in the program have expressed dislike for changes to school policy in regards to bathroom use. Others have expressed concern that they did not know that this \"ideology\" was being \"imposed\" on their children. The Safe Schools Coalition actively encourages people to report any inappropriate content.\n\nThe program has been supported by the majority of state governments, as well as psychologists, gay-support groups and other non-governmental and religious organisations. The program is supported by beyondblue, headspace and the Australian Secondary Principals Association.\n\nAdvocates for the program point to high levels of homophobic abuse, including in school settings, and high levels of school leaving. Australian LGBTIQ rights activist and academic Rodney Croome welcomed a review as a way of ensuring its funding delivered the outcomes it sought. NSW Labor politician Penny Sharpe has said that opposition is primarily due to \"homophobia\" and \"transphobia\". A petition presented by Australian Greens Senator Robert Simms to Parliament in March 2016 contained 70,000 signatures in support of the organisation.\n\nHowever, the program is opposed by some religious groups, particularly the Christian right, with the program said to be \"gagged\" on same-sex marriage while the Safe Schools Coalition said there had been \"no change to media protocols\". The Australian Christian Lobby and the Former National Party senator Bill O'Chee have criticised the program. Former Labor senator Joe Bullock has also criticised Safe Schools. Former Democrats Senator Brian Greig stated that the criticism from religious conservatives echoed the 1997 conservative response to \"Here for Life\", the anti-suicide program introduced by the Keating Government's Carmen Lawrence for gay and lesbian teenagers. After conservatives described it as “promoting homosexuality” and “recruiting children”, the newly elected Howard Government cancelled the Here for Life program.\n\nVarious aspects of the program have been criticised by \"The Australian\" newspaper. In July 2015, the Australian Christian Lobby lodged a 10,891-signature petition with the Queensland parliament in relation to the Safe Schools program. The petition incorporated wording from a Safe Schools student resource. However the Clerk of the Parliament would not permit that wording on the Queensland parliament’s website because of the \"intemperate\" language. The petition was subsequently tabled with that offending wording removed.\n\nOn 14 February 2016 the education minister, Simon Birmingham, described the lessons prepared by the coalition as having \"reasonable objectives\". Birmingham stated that controversy over the program was \"very unhelpful because the debate that seems to be occurring in the public space is one of whether or not we should be teaching inclusiveness and tolerance in our schools\". Some of the negative commentary surrounding the program has been attributed to the belief that young people who are exposed to LGBTIQ issues might then change their sexuality. The current (as of November 2017) federal government's policy is not to fund the program beyond 2017. Resources will still be available for schools to use beyond that date. Labor's policy is to expand the Safe Schools Coalition.\n\nIn February 2016, under privilege of Parliament, George Christensen claimed the program exposed students to inappropriate sexual material. Christensen also likened the program to a \"pedophile grooming a victim\", said the program was attempting to introduce into schools \"queer gender theory\" and \"marxist ideology\" that should be limited to universities. The Safe Schools Coalition dismissed those claims in their entirety.\n\nA review was announced by the Turnbull Liberal/National Coalition Government on 26 February 2016, after Coalition backbenchers George Christensen and Cory Bernardi raised concerns over what they claimed was the \"sexualised\" nature of the program, and forty-three Coalition backbenchers including former leader Tony Abbott had signed a petition calling for the program's closure. The review did not consider the contents of the Minus 18 website, or the contents of the network partners’ websites. The review was conducted by University of Western Australia’s Professor Bill Louden. The process included interviews with a range of individuals and groups associated with the program.\n\nOn 11 March 2016 the \"Review of Appropriateness and Efficacy of the Safe Schools Coalition Australia Program Resources\" was published.\n\nThe review revealed that opponents to the program had made statements that grossly misrepresented and exaggerated the nature of the program. Coalition MPs who support Safe School such as Warren Entsch said the concerns were being pushed by external lobby groups. Labor leader Bill Shorten labelled the Christensen group \"ideologues ... trying to impose a 1950s view of the world\".\n\nThe review did not find that any of the official resources were inappropriate. It found that the content in guideline documents was consistent with the aims of the program and that the language and content was suitable. All lesson plans were found to be consistent with the aims of the program as were all the posters. No harm was expected to come from primary schools students viewing the material, just that they may not comprehend some terms such as transphobia or homophobia. The level of interaction between schools and parents was found to be appropriate.\n\nThe Safe School Coalition has links to affiliate, third-party organisations and have jointly produced resources. Several of these resources, including \"Stand Out\", created in 2011 by the Safe Schools Coalition Victoria and Minus18 were part of the Louden Review. The review found that, \"The three resources created by young people, \"OMG I’m Queer\", \"OMG My Friend’s Queer\" and \"Stand Out\", are not intended as classroom resources. They are not normally circulated to primary schools and in some states only circulated to secondary schools on request. They normally are available either in the school library or through the student support centre. They are suitable for use by individual secondary students but may not be suitable for use in some faith-based schools.\"\n\nIn May 2016, Queenslander of the Year and transgender woman Cate McGregor, who \"had been asked to be an Ambassador for the program and had initially agreed\", subsequently said that she does not agree that the Safe Schools program is the best way to support transgender children. McGregor said she objects to the program as she believes it is underpinned by a political ideology with which she does not agree, saying that the program \"teaches a derivative of queer theory, which I believe leads trans people into a blind alley\". McGregor was subsequently stood down as the patron of Kaleidoscope Australia for her opposition to the Safe Schools program. McGregor expressed her disappointment.\n\nHowever, in May 2018, McGregor declared she had been wrong about the program. \"It's an excellent program, and it saves lives.\" \"I should have been a supporter from the start. I regret that I wasn't.\" \"Young trans people need an ally, and I could have been one.\" \"I'm high profile. They looked up to me. I could have helped, and I didn't, and I regret that.\"\n\nIn her column in Fairfax Media she said \"to my chagrin, I failed to anticipate the ammunition I offered to those like Miranda Devine and Lyle Shelton who refuse outright to accept the reality and legitimacy of trans identity.\" \"Trans kids are still doing it tough. Mainly because of cruel religious fanatics and their enablers.\"\n\nIn June 2016, La Trobe University suspended Roz Ward, the British academic and activist who \"runs the Safe Schools Coalition\" through the university's Australian Research Centre in Sex, Health and Society, for saying she wanted to get rid of the \"racist\" Australian flag and replace it with a red flag, \"and my work is done\". Ward was also suspended from the Safe Schools program. The Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said Ward's actions \"underlined concerns many people had about how the program was managed\". Ward's solicitors wrote to the university's Vice-Chancellor, John Dewar, urging him to withdraw all allegations and reinstate her by 10am Monday, otherwise legal action would ensue. While Dewar defended the University's actions, he reinstated Ward, with the Teachers Union saying Ward would be then able to resume supporting young people who are bullied. Beyondblue provided almost $600,000 to La Trobe University to administer the Safe Schools program. However, its chairman, Jeff Kennett, threatened to withdraw future funding and called for Ward to resign because of her \"extreme political views\".\n\nIn July 2016, members of Sydney's Chinese community lodged a petition containing more than 17,000 signatures, against the Safe Schools program. The chairman of the Confederation of Indian Australian Associations has said, \"It should not be given that platform in the school lessons, the majority of Indians feel … school is not an appropriate place to bring this subject up.\"\n\nDr Kevin Donnelly, who advocates for conservative viewpoints in discussions of education and established an institute which promotes the inclusion of Christian beliefs in schools and was previously co-chair of the National Curriculum Review and Senior Research Fellow at the Australian Catholic University, has argued that the program may over-ride parents' rights as primary caregivers and impose an agenda on their children which they might not accept. Donnelly has also said there is a lack of transparency with the program in New South Wales.\n\nThe Australian Human Rights Commission expressed concern over attempts to impose parental consent requirements, stating that there needed to be careful consideration of its impact on children struggling with sexual orientation, gender identity or intersex status, and stating \"while we recognise the rights of parents to be informed and engaged in their child’s education, it is important to ensure children who have not yet ‘come out’ to their family can still access the program and its resources.”\n\nFormer Prime Minister John Howard has said, \"What’s disappointed me is an issue like Safe Schools. When that emerged it should have been hit on the head by centre-right governments at federal and state level\".\n\nIn April 2017, Victorian education officials conceded there is a lack of hard evidence on the rates of homophobic bullying in schools to justify the decision to mandate the Safe School program.\n\nOn 9 May 2017 the Australian Christian Lobby hosted a seminar in Melbourne entitled \"Is Safe Schools safe?\", with the speakers, Professor of Paediatrics at the University of Western Sydney, John Whitehall and Dr Elisabeth Taylor from ACL. About 30 people, several of whom had their faces covered with bandanas, blocked the entrance to the seminar stopping the majority of the attendees from entering. Safe Schools activists from the Community Action Against Homophobia group protested outside a similar event in Sydney.\n\nIn Canberra there were \"acts of intimidation\" made against those opposed to the Safe Schools Program. Anti safe schools signs were \"torn up, burnt and defaced with threats to kill\".\n\nIn August 2017, a rally to protest against the Safe Schools program in Canberra was, \"effectively drowned out by vocal supporters\" of the program.\n\nIssues relating to the Safe Schools program were raised during the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey debate. The head of the Australian Christian Lobby wrote in August 2017 that the survey would be a referendum on safe schools, and the Australian Conservatives political party wrongly claimed that \"Safe Schools and others like it will be mandatory in schools\" if same-sex marriage was legalised. There is however a new program called Respectful Relationships which is different to Safe Schools, and was developed in response to recommendations made by the Australian Royal Commission on Family Violence. The Respectful Relationships program covers topics such as emotional literacy, anger management, coping skills, problem solving skills, anti-bullying, how to seek help from others, and gender equality.\n\nIn September 2017, the book \"The Gender Fairy\", promoted by the Safe Schools Coalition, featured in a television ad released in conjunction with the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey for the \"No\" campaign. The ad incorporates the words, \"Only you know whether you are a boy or a girl\".\n\nEducation Minister Simon Birmingham outlined the federal government's action in response to the Louden Review in a media statement. The Turnbull Liberal/National Coalition Government was quick to adopt changes to the program following the review. Some of the actions taken by the Turnbull Government were not recommended in the review. The imposed limits included changes to some materials, limiting access to secondary schools as some material was not easily understood by younger students, and requiring parent opt-ins. Federal President of the Australian Education Union Correna Haythorpe criticised the decision requiring parent body consent before a school could instigate the program saying that decision should be made by educators.\n\nThe Federal Government ceased its funding of the Safe Schools program in October 2016.\n\nThe program operates extensively in Victoria and is fully funded by the state government. State governments are also fully responsible for directly funded programs in South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory. Several schools in Western Australia, Queensland, Tasmania and the Northern Territory remain signed up to national Safe Schools registry.\n\nFollowing the launch of a Safe Schools-based teaching resource, NSW Education Minister Adrian Piccoli ordered his department to immediately withdraw the material, stating \"Safe Schools materials are only to be used strictly in accordance with the revised guidelines established by the federal government,\" with the Minister tasking Mark Scott, the Secretary of the NSW Education Department, to undertake a review of the program. In its report, released in November, the committee \"recommends the NSW Education Department requires schools under the Controversial Issues in Schools policy to consult with parents prior to any implementation of the Safe Schools program, and require that parents choose whether to opt in to this program\".\n\nIn September 2016, NSW students were told not to participate in any class lessons involving Safe Schools Coalition materials without the consent of their parents.\n\nIn February 2017, it was announced that NSW public school teachers were provided with, \"a list of resources that should not be used.\"\n\nIn April 2017 it was announced that NSW government will replace the Safe Schools Program with a broader anti-bullying program.\n\nIn August 2017 it was reported that, \"education bureaucrats have tried to slip material from the program back into the classroom, in defiance of parental wishes and ministerial orders\", with the federal Minister for Immigration and Border Protection, Peter Dutton saying those responsible should be \"sacked\".\n\nIn December 2017 NSW Opposition Leader, Luke Foley said that the Safe Schools program will \"never return\" under a Labor government.\n\nIn March 2016, following the Louden Review, the Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews took issue that students will now require parental permission to attend the Safe Schools program. He \"vowed to defend its place in every Victorian secondary school\", while the NSW Premier Mike Baird disagreed, saying \"parental engagement is a good thing.\"\n\nOn 15 May 2016, it was reported that the Victorian Government will spend about $1 million of its own funds to run the Safe Schools Program and will include those elements dropped by the Federal Government. They have subsequently added new links to optional resources from The Gayby Project produced by the makers of the Australian documentary film \"Gayby Baby\" for students in grade five to year 10. All state secondary schools in Victoria are to be members of the SSCA by 2018.\n\nIn December 2016 Safe Schools Coalition Australia has severed its ties with the Safe Schools Coalition Victoria.\n\nIn December 2016, the Victorian Government said it will take responsibility for and \"overhaul\" the Safe Schools program, with the government cutting its ties with both Ward and Latrobe University. In January 2017, it was reported that a new Victorian manager is to be appointed.\n\nThe Victorian government has pledged to fully fund the program in Victoria, and has established Safe Schools Victoria. The Victorian opposition education spokesman Tim Smith has said, if elected, he would replace the program with a broader anti-bullying program, as NSW has done.\n\nIn February 2018 a petition against Safe Schools was signed by 16,000 Victorians.\n\nThe program began in Queensland from the start of the second semester in 2015. Annastacia Palaszczuk pledged support for Safe Schools during the 2015 Queensland state election but as of March 2016 had not made any announcements.\n\nIn September 2016, Queensland students were told not to participate in any class lessons involving Safe Schools Coalition materials without the consent of their parents.\n\nIn June 2017, the Queensland Government announced that it will not fund the program when the federal Government ceases funding the Safe Schools Program in October 2017. Queensland has withdrawn from the Safe Schools Coalition Program. The Liberal National Party has said, in September 2017, if they are elected to form government they will, \"dump the Safe Schools program\".\n\nIn September 2017 there was what was described as \"aggressive altercations\" to prevent people entering a Brisbane church where a Safe Schools seminar was being held. A police statement and camera footage do not support the protesters version of what took place, saying, \"there was no record of any cars hurtling towards protesters, nor any other assault or injury\".\n\nThe South Australian Education Minister lamented the federal government's response to the successful program, which was launched in that state on 13 June 2014. In September 2016, South Australian students were told not to participate in any class lessons involving Safe Schools Coalition materials without the consent of their parents. South Australia is to develop its own programs, abandoning the national Safe Schools scheme. South Australia has withdrawn from the Safe Schools Coalition Program. The South Australian opposition said it will replace the Safe Schools program if elected.\n\nIn September 2016, Western Australian students were told not to participate in any class lessons involving Safe Schools Coalition materials without the consent of their parents.\n\nIn 2016 the Safe Schools Program was \"rolled out\" in 20 Tasmanian schools. In April 2017 it was reported that Tasmania will scrap its support for the Safe Schools program, replacing it with a comprehensive anti-bullying scheme.\n\nIn August 2016, the ACT Chief Minister, Andrew Barr, committed $100,000 to the Safe Schools Program in the Territory. \"The Australian\" newspaper reported that this would enable restrictions imposed on the national scheme to be circumvented.\n\nThe ACT government has pledged to fully fund the program in the ACT and is developing a program for \"sexually and gender diverse students, staff and families\". As of 2017 the ACT is no longer a member of the Safe Schools Coalition Program. The new program will have a change of name with the ACT Education Minister saying it, \"won't be defined as a program because then that implies that you're delivering a class or a program on something\".\n\nIn August 2017 Liberal politician Elizabeth Kikkert speaking in the ACT Legislative Assembly said that \"13-year-old girls [were asked] to fantasise about sexual intercourse\". Opposition education spokesman Andrew Wall tabled a petition and asked the ACT government to withdraw support for the program. In response, Deputy Chief Minister, Yvette Berry said Mr Wall should be \"ashamed of himself\" for bringing the petition forward.\n\nIn September 2017 it was reported that Education Minister Yvette Berry, \"will soon launch\" the ACT's answer to Safe Schools program.\n\nOne Northern Territory school has signed up for the program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13842357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13842357", "title": "Scottish Gaelic medium education", "text": "Scottish Gaelic medium education\n\nGaelic medium education (G.M.E. or GME; ) is a form of education in Scotland that allows pupils to be taught primarily through the medium of Scottish Gaelic, with English being taught as the secondary language.\n\nGaelic medium education is increasingly popular throughout Scotland, and the number of pupils who are in Gaelic medium education has risen from 24 in 1985 (its first year) to 3,892 in 2016. The current figure is the highest number of Gaelic medium Education pupils in Scotland since the 2005 passage of the Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act by the Scottish Parliament. Not included in this figure are university students at , Lews Castle College, or who are taking their degrees through the medium of Gaelic. \n\nHowever, some research has suggested that Gaelic medium education by itself is not enough for full bilingual competency in Gaelic, and it may be the pupils in primary Gaelic education who go on to use the language frequently as adults is limited.. Further qualitative and quantitative research is underway to articulate take up and the impact of changing strategies over time.\n\nIn 2016, 10,215 pupils in Scotland were receiving some kind of education in Gaelic representing 1.5% of the country's student population. This figure is higher than Scotland's overall proportion of Gaelic speakers which stood at 1.1% in 2011.\n\nNearly 3,900 students in Scotland were enrolled in Gaelic medium education in 2016, a 32% increase in only three years and a 47% increase over 2010 figures.\n\nSix council areas had a higher than average enrollment of students in Gaelic Medium Education: Eilean Siar (27.16%); Highland (3.69%); Argyll & Bute (1.80%); Glasgow City (1.18%); Edinburgh City (0.76%); and Stirling (0.61%).\n\nOver 6,300 other pupils in Scotland were receiving instruction in Gaelic language courses in 2016.\nIn Eilean Siar, 86.19% of all pupils were receiving some form of Gaelic-language education in 2016. In second place was Argyll & Bute at 10.75%, with the Highland council area in third at 7.59%. On the reverse side, sixteen council areas had no students at all receiving any education in Gaelic.\n\nThere are a handful of dedicated Gaelic medium schools in the country. The largest is Sgoil Ghàidhlig Ghlaschu (Glasgow Gaelic School), established in 2006 and catering to pupils aged three to eighteen, the country's first 3-18 Gaelic medium school. At the beginning of the 2015-16 year the school enrolled 811 pupils and is one of the most over-enrolled schools in Scotland. The country's only other Gaelic medium secondary school is Sgoil Lionacleit on the island of Benbecula in Na h-Eileanan Siar. Several Gaelic language primary schools exist in the Western Isles. Outside that region, Bun-sgoil Ghàidhlig Inbhir Nis opened in 2007 in Inverness and serves pupils in class 1-7, as does Bun-sgoil Taobh na Pàirce which opened in 2013 in the capital city of Edinburgh. A new Gaelic medium primary school, Bun-sgoil Ghàidhlig Loch Abar, opened in Caol near Fort William in 2015, and a similar school is currently under construction in Portree.\n\nAs there are still relatively few such schools, however, Gaelic medium education is mainly provided through Gaelic medium units within English-speaking schools. Bun-sgoil Shlèite on the Isle of Skye is the exception in that it is a Gaelic school with an English Medium Unit. The largest Gaelic unit is at Mount Cameron Primary School in East Kilbride which enrolled 70 pupils at the start of the 2015-16 school year.\n\nSeveral studies have examined the Gaelic-language capabilities of Gaelic-medium educated adults and found that few of them demonstrate native-like, or fully bilingual, abilities in Gaelic: \"researchers in these studies [(cf. Landgraf 2013; Nance 2013; MacLeod et al. 2014). Landgraf (2013) and Macleod et al. (2014)] observed frequent and unmarked use of non-native-like features in GME students’ syntax, morphology and phonology, both through ethnographic observations in the classroom and individual interviews.\" \"(emphasis added)\"\n\nIn her 2013 thesis, Julia Landgraf found that the few GME students exhibiting fully bilingual abilities came from Gaelic-speaking households. However, GME students and other young adults from Gaelic-speaking areas are increasingly exhibiting English-influenced phonology.\n\nFurthermore, not all graduates end up using the language. In Dunmore's study of 46 adults from a GME background, a majority were classified as \"low use.\" Usage was strongly correlated with language abilities.\n\nThe attitudes towards education and the promotion of Anglicisation have been described as resulting from \"confrontation of two disparate societies...Lowland Scotland made plain its anxiety concerning the unreformed society in the north in terms of unease concerning its language, which was identified as the chief cause of barbarity, ignorance and popery\" and can be seen as a continuation of such policies going back to 1609 and the Statutes of Iona which saw the Gaelic speaking nobility of Scotland forced to send their children to be educated in English speaking Lowland Scotland; an act which has been described as \"the first of a succession of measures taken by the Scottish government specifically aimed at the extirpation of the Gaelic language, the destruction of its traditional culture and the suppression of its bearers.\" This was followed in 1616 by an act of the privy council which included a requirement that the children of the Highland nobility must be capable of speaking, reading and writing English if they were to be recognised as heirs.\n\nThe history of Gaelic language schools (in the modern sense) in Scotland can be traced back to the early 18th century and the schools of the Scottish Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge or SSPCK. Ironically, one of the primary aims of the society was the de-Gaelicisation of the Highlands and initially its schools taught exclusively through the medium of the English language with the equivalent use of Gaelic prohibited. However the insistence on teaching children in a language which was (in almost all cases) entirely foreign to them resulted in very little progress with regards to establishing literacy in the English language. This situation persisted until the collapse of the Jacobite cause in 1746 with the Battle of Culloden and the consequent collapse of the Gaelic speaking political structures and the pacification of the Highlands by the British Army in the ensuing decades. The change in political atmosphere following the Disarming Act, as well as campaigning by the likes of Samuel Johnson - who was aghast at the fact the SSPCK was actively preventing the publication of the Bible into Scottish Gaelic — led to the change in attitudes within the Society. Johnson had to say of the matter:\n\nJohnson, despite being commonly viewed as both anti-Scottish and anti-Gaelic, was actively involved in campaigning for the production of Gaelic literature and proposed the creation of a Gaelic press in the Isle of Skye. The change in attitudes resulted in the production, by the SSPCK, of a Gaelic version of the New Testament in 1767 with the Old Testament being translated and published in 1801. 1767 also saw the SSPCK switch from English to Gaelic as the language of instruction in their Highland schools. A school in Inverness, Raining School, was also established to provide training for Gaelic speaking teachers.\n\nThe 19th century saw the establishment of the first Gaelic school society — the \"Edinburgh Society for the Support of Gaelic Schools\" - in 1811. The society stated its purpose thus:\n\nThe new society attracted much support with similar organisations being founded in Glasgow and Inverness. The early success of the Edinburgh society was such that by 1828 it funded 85 schools in the Highlands and Islands with its sister societies enjoying similar levels of success. However following the early period of success the groups encountered financial difficulties due to poor administration and started to decline around 1830 and by 1850 only the original Edinburgh society remained although this branch, with strong support from the Edinburgh Ladies Association, continued until 1892. This was despite the introduction of the Education (Scotland) Act 1872 which effectively put an end to non-English medium education and led to the discouragement of Gaelic with pupils being punished by teachers for speaking the language. The effect of the education act upon the Gaelic language has been described as \"disastrous\" and the continuation of a general policy (by both Scottish, and post 1707, British) which aimed at Anglicisation.\n\nPressure upon the Scottish Education Department in the years immediately following the act of 1872 saw the gradual reintroduction of certain measures providing for the use of Gaelic in schools. This pressure led to the undertaking by the department of a survey in 1876 which revealed a \"distinct majority\" of school boards within the Highlands in favour of the inclusion of Gaelic within the curriculum although it also revealed that some of those in Gaelic-speaking areas were against this. However the continuing reluctance of school boards to take full advantages of the limited provisions made for Gaelic within the school curriculum as well as the problems of financing the Education Act generally saw little use of the limited provisions for Gaelic within the schools. The severe financial difficulties suffered by Highland schools at this time saw the introduction of the \"Highland Minute\" in 1887 which aimed at aiding designated boards financially while also recognising Gaelic as a specific subject in the higher classes of both elementary and secondary schools. Grants to aid the supply of Gaelic speaking teachers were also introduced.\n\nDespite these small measures towards the reintroduction of Gaelic into the classroom the manner in which the language was taught is thought to have contributed to its decline with the language being taught not as the native tongue of the pupils, via the medium of the language itself, but as an academic subject to be studied only through the English language with ever decreasing numbers of students studying the language.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29718579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29718579", "title": "Shih-Hui Chen", "text": "Shih-Hui Chen\n\nShih-Hui Chen (陳士惠) (born 1962) is a Taiwanese composer who lives and works in the United States.\nChen Shih-hui (陳士惠) was born in Taipei, Taiwan, and came to the United States in 1982 to study for a master's degree from Northern Illinois University and a doctoral degree from Boston University. After receiving her DMA in Music Composition, Shih-Hui Chen took a position at the Shepherd School of Music, Rice University where she is currently an Associate Professor of Music Composition. She served as composer-in-residence at Boston University's Tanglewood Institute in 2000, 2001 and 2004, and as music advisor for the Formosa Chamber Music Society. She is a former member of the composers' collective Musiqa and the Asian Composers' League.\n\nChen Shih-hui has been awarded a number of grants, and her work has been performed internationally. In 1999, she received an American Academy in Rome Prize, a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2000, and a Goddard Lieberson Fellowship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 2007. In 2010, Chen received a Fulbright Fellowship to study traditional Chinese Music, Nanguan music, and music of the Taiwanese aboriginal people.\n\nChen Shih-hui composes for orchestra, chamber ensemble, voice, and solo instruments. She also composes music for theater and film scores.\n\nSelected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "53543910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53543910", "title": "Shtandart (frigate, 1999)", "text": "Shtandart (frigate, 1999)\n\nThe frigate Shtandart (\"\") is modern replica of the first ship of Russia's Baltic fleet, was launched in 1703 at the Olonetsky shipyard near Olonets by the decree of Tsar Peter I and orders issued by commander Aleksandr Menshikov. The name \"Shtandart\" was also given to the royal yachts of the tsars until the Russian Revolution in 1917. Tsar Nicholas II's royal yacht was last of this series.\n\nIn 1994 a small group of sailing enthusiasts led by Vladimir Martus started construction of a replica of the historical ship. \nMartus developed a new layout of the \"Shtandart\" wherein she was built with four bulkheads, dividing her into five compartments. \n\nThe replica frigate has three masts and her displacement is 220 tons. She is 25.88 metres (82.0 ft) registered length, 27.5 metres (90 ft) long on deck and 34.5 metres (113 ft) long overall. The \"Shtandart\" is 7.0 metres (23 ft) wide with a draft of 3.0 to 3.3 metres (11 ft). The ship is designed for speeds between 8-9 knots under sail, and under auxiliary engines she can make up to 13 knots (25 km/h). The original crew complement in 1703 was between 120 and 150, and the modern crew consists of 30 trainees and 10 officers.\n\nThe \"Shtandart Project\" (a non-commercial organisation dedicated to youth development) launched a replica of the frigate on September 4, 1999. The modern \"Shtandart\" has two zones:\n\n\nBeginning in 2007, all sailing vessels in Russia faced challenges with a certification. The new National Sea and River Authority (then Росморречнадзор/Rosmorrechnadzor, now Госморречнадзор/Gosmorrechnadzor) refused to issue certificates for sailing ships. The \"Shtandart\" was one of the most prominent of these vessels, so her dispute with this government agency was widely publicized. The Northwest directorate of the Rosmorrechnadzor cancelled the \"Shtandart's\" certifications but the St. Petersburg Arbitration Court reversed the decision in favor of the frigate, and the certificate's cancellation was ruled illegal. The ship has now been sailing around in Europe for the last ten years. It is not known when she could return to her home port.\n\n\n\n\nList of Russian sail frigates\n"}
{"id": "35290913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35290913", "title": "SkyWeek", "text": "SkyWeek\n\nSkyWeek was a weekly astronomy television program created by \"Sky & Telescope\" magazine. The show was hosted by Tony Flanders, associate editor of \"Sky & Telescope\" magazine. Each episode of the program was released in one, three, and five-minute formats; and, the show's content and format were similar to that of another weekly astronomy program called \"Star Gazers\". \"SkyWeek\" was carried by many PBS affiliates.\n\n\"SkyWeek\" was an educational program that described celestial events for the upcoming week. The show was aimed primarily at the general public and required no prior knowledge of astronomy. However, it also contained information that was likely to be interesting to experienced amateur astronomers. It depicted celestial objects in the night sky that could be seen without special equipment such as telescopes. Sky and Telescope's associate editor, Tony Flanders hosted the show, which was available in one-, three- and five-minute versions.\n\n\"SkyWeek\" was produced by New Track Media, which publishes \"Sky & Telescope\" magazine. The show was distributed to PBS stations through American Public Television.\n\nImages from the Hubble Space Telescope and many other professional and amateur sources were used in the production of the show.\n\nOn April 16, 2014, Tony Flanders announced that the episode covering the week of April 28 to May 4, 2014 would be the last for the series. Flanders reported that the series was being discontinued because of insufficient money from sponsors required to cover the show's costs.\n\nEpisodes were titled by the week of the events they describe. The production code used was of the form YYMMDD (2 digit year, 2 digit month, 2 digit day) for the date the episode was best suited to be broadcast.\n\nThe show premiered on November 19, 2011 with the inaugural episode covering the week of November 21 to 27 of 2011.\n\nThe 2012 season started on January 1, 2012.\n\nThe 2013 season started on January 1, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16920296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16920296", "title": "Subway Academy I", "text": "Subway Academy I\n\nSubway Academy I is a public alternative high school in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Originally, Subway Academy I was simply called \"Subway Academy\", but after Subway Academy II opened, the name was changed to \"Subway Academy I\". It was founded in September 1973, making it one of the oldest secondary alternative schools in Toronto. The original staff were Achim Krull, Judith Robertson and Murray Shukyn. The school was a reflection of the Ivan Illich \"deschooling\" movement, which proposed that people would learn best from community resources. As a result, a directory of resources along the Toronton subway system was created, and the school derives its name from that initiative. The community resource aspect of the program however faded very quickly. Students were more interested in formal credit courses and academic courses leading to admission to university or college admission. \nSubway Academy started as an independent studies program. It was intended to make education available to students with family or other obligations which limited their ability to attend school during regular hours and who could not attend night school. The school enrolled students at any time during the year, not just in September. Originally, there was no upper age limit on enrolment. The school attracted many adults. \nThe independent studies program at Subway Academy operated very differently from regular high school programs. Students met their teachers by appointment several times a week, but there were no formal classes. During the appointments, students reviewed their progress with their teachers, wrote tests, handed in assignments, and received new work. Students could work at the school, or at home, or at the local library, wherever they were comfortable. Students started courses when they joined, and finished courses whenever they had completed all the required work. Additional courses could be started at any time. Today Subway Academy combined formal classes with independent studies, and students are required to complete courses during a regular semestered timeframe.\nSubway Academy One continues to share a building with Eastern Commerce Collegiate Institute. Today it offers courses from grades 9 to 12 at both the academic and applied level. As the enrolment at Subway Academy increased, it was divided into two branches. Subway Academy II was opened in the west end of Toronto. Judith Robertson became the first coordinator of that program. It continues today as an independent studies program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28005285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28005285", "title": "Sun Rise English School", "text": "Sun Rise English School\n\nSun Rise English School is a private school in Bharatpur, Chitwan. It is one of the premier private schools of Nepal.\n\nSun Rise English School was established in 1987 by Mr. Dinanath Duwadi, in his own home in Bharatpur-06, Krishnapur, Chitwan. Classes ran from Nursery to 5th grade. There were 33 students enrolled and 5 staff and teachers working in the school. After running the school for 3 years in his home, the board of directors moved it to Dipendra Nagar. The school was moved behind Birendra Multiple Campus, Dipendra Nagar in the fall of 1992. After running the school for two more years, the school's Board of Directors declared liquidity. In the summer of 1994, the school was closed with 142 students enrolled and studying.\n\nWithin a week, the school was purchased by a group of young educators. The new group registered the school as Sun Rise English School, removing the word 'boarding' from its previous name. Mr. Bal Bahadur Acharya was selected as the acting principal of the school. The new management brought all the teachers and staff, and all the physical assets including the school building from the previous management and started the classes at the same place behind Birendra Multiple Campus in Dipendra Nagar.\n\nThe school has attended generally good reputation as one of the best Secondary Schools outside Kathmandu Valley. With overall excellent results in the SLC examinations, the school has established itself as a strong competitor in the Nepalese education system.\nThe new management took over in 1994. The school used to be administered completely by the Board of Directors elected by the Trustees of school till 2006. With a demand for a parent representative on the school's Board of Directors, the previous system was finally removed. Directors will be composed like this:\nThe school operates two courses of study: \n\nMost students go on to attend high schools in Chitwan, Kathmandu, Pokhara and to some Indian cities. Sun Rise has been producing excellent results in SLC examinations for the past 14 years. Every year till now, the school has been amongst the top three schools in the district with the best results.\n\nFirst +2 Batch batch have been started.\n\nComputer Education:\n\nSRES possesses two computer laboratories equipped with set of 46 computers. This subject has been introduced as a part of curriculum from class VI onwards.\n\nLibrary:\n\nSRES has two separate libraries for its senior and junior students. A wide variety of books are kept to encourage the students to develop an interest in different subjects. These libraries are equipped with all kinds of audio/visual materials, children's films etc.\n\nScience Laboratory:\n\nA well-equipped science laboratory has been set up with the number of equipments and chemicals necessary for secondary course.\n\nTransportation:\n\nThe school has four buses to pick up the children and drop them. Special subsidy has been provided to moderate the service post.\n\nHealth Service:\n\nSRES has been providing first aid service. Besides, the school manages every possible types of Health service programme available. An infirmary with a nurse has been set up to provide better service to its children.\n\nScholarship:\n\nSRES has special provisions to provide help to the intelligent and hard-working students as well as under privileged students. The school offers S.L.C. merit scholarships to the national and district toppers from the school.\n\nHostel:\n\nSRES has two separate hostels for both Boys and Girls. The hostels provide highly safe environment under the direct supervision of the managing body. A great attention has been paid to ensure the comfort, cleanliness and hygiene of the children. Special class hours are arranged to help the weaker students.\n\nCanteen:\n\nDay scholars can have Tiffin at school canteen located inside school premise. A vigilant eye has been kept to ensure the hygiene and cost of the food available.\n\nPasang Lahmu Award\n\nGalaxy Trophy\n\nBest NJRC in the district 2058,2059\n\nBest School in the district, 2064\n\nBest School in the district,2065\n\nBest School in the district,2066\n\nSome Sources;\n"}
{"id": "7090459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090459", "title": "Teresa Carpio", "text": "Teresa Carpio\n\nTeresa Carpio (born 30 September 1956 in Hong Kong) is a Hong Kong English pop and Cantopop singer, actress, and singing teacher. As a singer she who has enjoyed substantial popularity in Hong Kong and other countries, particularly during the 1970s and 1980s. She is also the mother of singer T.V. Carpio. She is most well known for her Cantonese hits, 假如 (If), 仍然記得嗰一次 (I Still Remember That Time), 眉頭不再皺 (Sukiyaki), 何必放棄 (Why Give Up) and 真愛 (True Love).\n\nCarpio's father is Filipino and her mother Shanghainese. Born into a musical family (her grandfather was a concert violinist and jazz guitarist, her father Fernando, a jazz drummer, and several uncles were also professional musicians), She began singing at age 6 when she entered and won Hong Kong's first Amateur Talent Quest. She is the eldest of five, all of whom have at some time been active in the music business. Her eldest daughter, TV Carpio, is a musician, actress and Broadway singer.\n\nCarpio began her career as a child star, winning Hong Kong's first Amateur Talent Quest in 1963 at the age of 6. At age 11, she turned down a scholarship at St Paul's Convent to work in her first job in Tahiti where her father was also working. Following that, she worked in clubs until she went to Japan for a year where she met Shintaro Katsu who sponsored her during her time there. She released her first single in Japan in 1971, entitled Ainoko Mary (混血児マリー).\n\nReturning to Hong Kong, she worked in many nightclubs, such as Danshaku, Gessekai and the Hyatt Hotel's Chin Chin Bar, until EMI came and offered her a recording deal.\n\nFor several years from 1975 onwards Carpio had her own TV variety show in Hong Kong, on which she performed both solo and with several of her siblings. She released many albums in Hong Kong from 1976 onwards; six of her albums under EMI went gold, in which she featured cover versions in English of western hits, including an album with George Lam. She made numerous television appearances in Hong Kong, in the late 1970s.\n\nCarpio was the first and the youngest Hong Kong singer ever to appear on national TV in Japan. She has performed in many other countries as far apart as Singapore, Malaysia, Tahiti, Australia, Japan, Thailand, Brunei, the United States and Canada.\n\nWith the growing popularity of Cantopop, Carpio started to record in Cantonese along with English, remaining popular despite increasing competition from newer stars, notably Anita Mui. Carpio broadened her career into acting with appearances in a number of films, and auditioned for the lead role in Miss Saigon, though this eventually went to Lea Salonga. She was no stranger to live musical theatre, having taken the lead role in the 1979 San Jose, California production of the stage musical \"City of Broken Promises\", based on the book by Austin Coates, a story set in Macau which won Best Original Musical.\n\nFollowing her second marriage, Carpio moved to Canada and focused her attention on bringing up her family (she has three daughters; the eldest, T. V. Carpio, by her first marriage, also an actor, singer and songwriter).\n\nCarpio has released 25 albums to date, including 6 live recordings. Her first album, Teresa Carpio, was released in 1975 and then quickly followed up with five more solo albums from EMI as well as a duets album with George Lam. In 1981 she moved to WEA and released one Cantonese album. In 1983 she formed her own record company, TV Records, which released three more Cantonese albums, on which - together with her WEA album - are some of her most popular songs. Since then she has released several live CDs and DVDs as well as a few studio recordings.\n\nShe has appeared in 13 movies in total, starting in 1984 with a lead role in 開心鬼 (Happy Ghost), where she also sang the theme song. She is more well known for her later movies where she often was famous for small roles that became extremely popular, such as 2003's 六樓后座 (Sixth Floor Rear Flat) where she sang part of 海闊天空 (Boundless Oceans, Vast Skies), accompanying herself on keyboards.\n\nCarpio began teaching in 1991, when Sandy Lam came to her and asked her to teach her in preparation for her concerts at the Hong Kong Coliseum. After that, many other singers followed, names such as Sammi Cheng, Wong Cho Lam, Cecilia Cheung, Joey Yung, Gigi Leung, Alex To, Edmund Leung, Twins, Jade Kwan and many more.\n\nShe appeared on Hong Kong television as a judge and head vocal coach on season two of the singing competition \"The Voice\".\n\nPrior to her appearance on \"Singer 2017\", on 20 August 2016, she appeared as a guest singer on the finals of 2016 for the performance of runner-up Wong Cho Lam (who sung a version of The Prayer.) \n\nAs a result of her appearance, Carpio was selected as one of eight initial singers to compete in Hunan TV's Singer 2017. During her tenure, she told to the media that her participation was fueled by the fact that she was competing against another Hong Kong singer, Sandy Lam Yik-Lin (who she went on to win). Despite topping the singer's voting predictions (two 1st, one 2nd and one 3rd), she was eliminated on week five (2nd Knockout round) after receiving the lowest combined votes, largely due to finishing last on her prior week. Her elimination was not without controversy, with many fans questioning about the elimination.\n\nAfter her Return performance on the week after elimination, Carpio later returned to the stage to participate the \"Breakout Round\", and at second place by a difference of three votes (0.15%) behind the top singer Li Jian, she was one of the few singers to be reinstated from the competition. However, she was shortly eliminated again on the semi-finals a week later as one of the bottom two singers (the other was Julia Peng) receiving a lower count of votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "5133695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5133695", "title": "The Boy from Mercury", "text": "The Boy from Mercury\n\nThe Boy from Mercury (1996) is a nostalgic Irish Film, the first from writer and director Martin Duffy. The film concerns the science-fiction daydreams of a young boy in 1960 Dublin. Upon release, the film received international critical acclaim, and several awards, though was commercially unsuccessful. It was the first time actors Rita Tushingham and Tom Courtenay had appeared on screen together since \"Doctor Zhivago\" thirty years earlier. The film was also the debut of young Irish actor James Hickey.\n\nThe book of the making of the film, The Road to Mercury, written by the director, was released in 2006 by Ogma Press.\n"}
{"id": "26840918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26840918", "title": "The New Media Reader", "text": "The New Media Reader\n\nThe New Media Reader is a new media textbook edited by Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort and published through The MIT Press. The reader features essays from a variety of contributors such as Lev Manovich, Richard Stallman, and Alan Turing. It is currently in use at multiple college campuses including Brown University \n\", Duke University, and the University of California at Santa Cruz.\n\nThe purpose of this book, as described by the authors, is to articulate the that has often gone unheard and under the radar. They made an extra effort to include illustrations that we originally intended but often neglected in subsequent printings. This book hopes to \" assemble a representative collection of critical thoughts, events, and developments...as a new medium, or enabling a new media.\" By new media they are not referring to new media at this given moment in time, but rather media that was new and original at the time of its introduction. They mention that many times these ideas seemed radical and unorthodox at the time but have paved the way from many modern ideas and the authors hope to \"provide understanding and offer fuel for inspiration\".\n\n"}
