{"id": "5198401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5198401", "title": "Alexians", "text": "Alexians\n\nThe Alexians, Alexian Brothers or Cellites are a Catholic religious institute or congregation specifically devoted to caring for the sick which has its origin in Europe at the time of the Black Death. They follow the Augustinian rule. \n\nThe Alexians trace their origin to the early 12th-century Beghards, male counterparts of the Beguines, laywomen who followed a devout style of life in a limited degree of common life. The men did not get much attention until they made a great contribution in history in the city of Mechelen, in the Duchy of Brabant (in central Flanders, now Belgium), some time in the 14th century, during the terrible ravages of the Black Death. Some laymen united under the guidance of a man named Tobias to succor the plague-stricken without taking any vows or adopting monasticism. One of their most obvious activities was caring for those stricken with the bubonic plague, along with their families, and burying those who died. These laymen lived in little rooms or cells (from Latin \"cella,\" a cell that gave rise to their early name of \"Cellites\").\n\nThe speculation that the name \"Beghards\" arose from supporting themselves by begging for food was dismissed by the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" Eleventh Edition.\n\nThe plague victims became the outcasts of the society and were thrown outside the city walls, along with the other marginalized folk, to die. Moved by compassion, these laymen came together and vowed to take care of these victims who were abandoned by not only the state and the church, but also their families. Later on, the group attracted more men who chose to abandon their secular lives to live in community as brothers and to serve the needs of the poor. Eventually, the Catholic Church saw the utility of the brothers and invited them to be formally recognized as a religious group and subsequently gave them pontifical status. The brothers were associated with a chapel dedicated to Alexius of Rome, who had served many years in a hospital at Edessa in Syria, and they began to be called the Brothers at St. Alexius Chapel, a name that evolved into that of Alexian Brothers, their modern name.\n\nThe Brothers rapidly spread throughout Germany, Brabant, Flanders, and other countries. They were also styled in Middle Dutch \"lollebroeders\" \"mumbling brothers\", or \"Lollhorden\", from Old , meaning \"to sing softly,\" from their chants for the dead. This name was later adopted as a term of contempt, applied first to Franciscans and later to the heretical followers of John Wycliffe.) The Alexians did not escape calumny and persecution, as demonstrated from the papal bull \"Ad Audientiam Nostram\" (2 December 1377) which Pope Gregory XI sent to the German bishops, especially those of Cologne, Trier and Mainz, forbidding annoyance of the \"Cellites\" and enjoining punishment for their persecutors. This was followed by Bulls of a similar tenor from Pope Boniface IX on 7 January 1396, Pope Eugene IV on 12 May 1431, Pope Nicholas V and Pope Pius II.\n\nIn 1469, the motherhouse at Aachen voiced the general feeling of the Brothers in asking Louis de Bourbon, Bishop of Liège, to raise that house to a convent of the Order of Saint Augustine. The request was granted, and in 1854 Father Dominicus Brock and five of the Brothers took the solemn vows of religious under the rule of St. Augustine. This step and the revised constitution of the religious institute were confirmed by Pope Pius IX on 12 September 1870.\n\nIn the early 20th century the Alexian Brothers had four hospitals in the United States. The first was built in Chicago in 1866; it was destroyed by the Great Fire, on 9 October 1871, and rebuilt the following year. The second, erected at St. Louis in 1869, covered an acre with its departments for the insane, nervous diseases, and inebriates. The third was in Oshkosh, Wisconsin and built in 1880. The fourth was built in Elizabeth, New Jersey, on land given for that purpose by Right Rev. Bishop Wigger. Competent surgeons and physicians attended to the patients, and the Brothers nursed and did the housework of the hospitals.\n\nToday, the Chicago hospital has become the Alexian Brothers Medical Center and Rehabilitation Hospital in Elk Grove Village, Illinois, and the St. Alexius Medical Center and Behavioral Hospital, both in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. These also operate satellite centers and clinics around Illinois. In Missouri, Tennessee and Wisconsin the Alexians run a group of facilities, care systems, homes and communities all for older adults. The other hospitals have been sold or closed.\n\nBishop (later Cardinal) Herbert Vaughan of the City of Salford, England invited the Alexians to take charge of a new home and hospital in his diocese, which led to their establishing themselves in England in June 1875. Dr Richard Lacy, Bishop of Middlesbrough, secured them for his diocese in 1884. In 1885, the Brothers established a province of their institute and a novitiate in the United Kingdom. The latter, first attached to St. Mary's Convent, Newton Heath, Manchester, was later transferred to West Twyford, near Ealing, which the Alexian Brothers had purchased.\n\nThe Immaculate Conception Province (the American Province) sponsors Alexian Brothers Health System, which provides services in acute care, residential elderly care, retirement centers, and AIDS ministry in Illinois, Missouri, Wisconsin, Tennessee, and also outside the USA in the Philippines and Hungary. On January 1, 2012 the Alexian Brothers Health System became part of St. Louis-based Ascension Health, the nation’s largest Catholic and non-profit health system.\n\nThe contemporary British houses in London and Manchester, as well as the Irish ones in Dublin and Limerick, include facilities for the elderly sick and physically handicapped through a nursing home and Day Centre; an AIDS ministry; care and rehabilitation of homeless men; and support for people suffering from mental illness.\n\nOn the European continent the contemporary German branch has houses in Aachen, Krefeld, Malseneck, Münster and Twistringen. In Belgium they have centres in Boechout, Tienen, Grimbergen and Henri-Chapelle, where they provide psychiatric services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2780034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780034", "title": "Antidepressant discontinuation syndrome", "text": "Antidepressant discontinuation syndrome\n\nAntidepressant discontinuation syndrome, also called antidepressant withdrawal syndrome, is a condition that can occur following the interruption, reduction, or discontinuation of antidepressant medication. The symptoms may include flu-like symptoms, trouble sleeping, nausea, poor balance, sensory changes, and anxiety. The problem usually begins within three days and may last for several months. Rarely psychosis may occur.\nA discontinuation syndrome can occur after stopping any antidepressant including selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), serotonin–norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) and tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). The risk is greater among those who have taken the medication for longer and when the medication in question has a short half-life. The underlying reason for its occurrence is unclear. The diagnosis is based on the symptoms.\nMethods of prevention include gradually decreasing the dose among those who wish to stop, though it is possible for symptoms to occur with tapering. Treatment may include restarting the medication and slowly decreasing the dose. People may also be switched to the long acting antidepressant fluoxetine which can then be gradually decreased. \nApproximately 20-50% of people who suddenly stop an antidepressant develop an antidepressant discontinuation syndrome. The condition is generally not serious. Though about half of people with symptoms describe them as severe. Some restart antidepressants due to the severity of the symptoms.\n\nPeople with antidepressant discontinuation syndrome have been on an antidepressant for at least four weeks and have recently stopped taking the medication, whether abruptly, after a fast taper, or each time the medication is reduced on a slow taper. Commonly reported symptoms include flu-like symptoms (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headaches, sweating) and sleep disturbances (insomnia, nightmares, constant sleepiness). Sensory and movement disturbances have also been reported, including imbalance, tremors, vertigo, dizziness, and electric-shock-like experiences in the brain, often described by people who have them as \"brain zaps\". Mood disturbances such as dysphoria, anxiety, or agitation are also reported, as are cognitive disturbances such as confusion and hyperarousal.\n\nIn cases associated with sudden discontinuation of MAO inhibitors, acute psychosis has been observed. Over fifty symptoms have been reported.\n\nMost cases of discontinuation syndrome may last between one and four weeks, are relatively mild, and resolve on their own; in more severe cases, symptoms can be severe or extended. Paroxetine and venlafaxine seem to be particularly difficult to discontinue, and prolonged withdrawal syndrome (post-acute-withdrawal syndrome, or PAWS) lasting over 18 months has been reported with paroxetine.\n\nA 2009 Advisory Committee to the FDA found that online anecdotal reports of discontinuation syndrome related to duloxetine (\"Cymbalta\") included severe symptoms and exceeded prevalence of both paroxetine (\"Paxil\") and venlafaxine (\"Effexor\") reports by over 250% (although acknowledged this may have been influenced by duloxetine (\"Cymbalta\") being a much newer drug). It also found that the safety information provided by the manufacturer not only neglected important information about managing discontinuation syndrome, but also explicitly advised against opening capsules, a practice required to gradually taper dosage.\n\nSymptoms usually resolve within two weeks but occasionally last up to one year.\n\nThey typically resolve within a day of restoring the medication.\n\nThe underlying reason for its occurrence is unclear, though the syndrome appears similar to withdrawal from other psychotropic drugs such as benzodiazepines.\n\nIn some cases, discontinuation syndrome (withdrawal) may be prevented by taking medication as directed, and when discontinuing, doing so gradually, although symptoms may appear while tapering. When discontinuing an antidepressant with a short half-life, switching to a drug with a longer half-life (e.g. fluoxetine (\"Prozac\") or citalopram) and then tapering, and eventually discontinuing, from that drug can decrease the severity of symptoms.\n\nTreatment is dependent on the severity of the discontinuation reaction and whether or not further antidepressant treatment is warranted. In cases where further antidepressant treatment is prescribed, then the only option suggested may be restarting the antidepressant. If antidepressants are no longer required, treatment depends on symptom severity. If symptoms of discontinuation are severe, or do not respond to symptom management, the antidepressant can be reinstated and then withdrawn more cautiously, or by switching to a drug with a longer half life, (such as \"Prozac\"), and then tapering and discontinuing that drug. In severe cases, hospitalization may be required.\n\nAntidepressants, including SSRIs, can cross the placenta and have the potential to affect the fetus and newborn, including an increased chance of miscarriage, presenting a dilemma for pregnant women to decide whether to continue to take antidepressants at all, or if they do, considering if tapering and discontinuing during pregnancy could have a protective effect for the newborn.\n\nPostnatal adaptation syndrome (PNAS) (originally called \"neonatal behavioral syndrome\", \"poor neonatal adaptation syndrome\", or \"neonatal withdrawal syndrome\") was first noticed in 1973 in newborns of mothers taking antidepressants; symptoms in the infant include irritability, rapid breathing, hypothermia, and blood sugar problems. The symptoms usually develop from birth to days after delivery and usually resolve within days or weeks of delivery.\n\nAntidepressant discontinuation symptoms were first reported with imipramine, the first tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), in the late 1950s, and each new class of antidepressants has brought reports of similar conditions, including monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), SSRIs, and SNRIs. As of 2001, at least 21 different antidepressants, covering all the major classes, were known to cause discontinuation syndromes. The problem has been poorly studied, and most of the literature has been case reports or small clinical studies; incidence is hard to determine and controversial.\n\nWith the explosion of use and interest in SSRIs in the late 1980s and early 1990s, focused especially on Prozac, interest grew as well in discontinuation syndromes. Some of the symptoms emerged from discussion boards where people with depression discussed their experiences with the disease and their medications; \"brain zaps\" or \"brain shivers\" was one symptom that emerged via these websites.\n\nHeightened media attention and continuing public concerns led to the formation of an expert group on the safety of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in England, to evaluate all the research available prior to 2004. The group determined that the incidence of discontinuation symptoms are between 5% and 49%, depending on the particular SSRI, the length of time on the medicine and abrupt versus gradual cessation.\n\nWith the lack of a definition based on consensus criteria for the syndrome, a panel met in Phoenix, Arizona in 1997 to form a draft definition, which other groups continued to refine.\n\nIn the late 1990s, some investigators thought that the fact that symptoms emerged when antidepressants were discontinued might mean that antidepressants were causing addiction, and some used the term \"withdrawal syndrome\" to describe the symptoms. While people taking antidepressants do not commonly exhibit drug seeking behavior, stopping antidepressants leads to similar symptoms as found in drug withdrawal from benzodiazapines, and other psychotropic drugs. As such, some researchers advocate the term withdrawal over discontinuation, to communicate the similar physiological dependence and negative outcomes. Due to pressure from pharmaceutical companies who make anti-depressants, the term \"withdrawal syndrome\" is no longer used by drug makers, and thus, most doctors, due to concerns that they may be compared to other drugs more commonly associated with withdrawal.\n\nIn 2013, a proposed class action lawsuit, \"Jennifer L Saavedra v. Eli Lilly and Company\", was brought against Eli Lilly claiming that the Cymbalta label omitted important information about \"brain zaps\" and other symptoms upon cessation. Eli Lilly moved for dismissal per the \"learned intermediary doctrine\" as the doctors prescribing the drug were warned of the potential problems and are an intermediary medical judgment between Lilly and patients; in December 2013 Lilly's motion to dismiss was denied.\n\nThe mechanisms of antidepressant withdrawal syndrome have not yet been conclusively identified. The leading hypothesis is that after the antidepressant is discontinued, there is a temporary, but in some cases, long-lasting, deficiency in the brain of one or more essential neurotransmitters that regulate mood, such as serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid, and since neurotransmitters are an interrelated system, dysregulation of one affects the others.\n\n"}
{"id": "895299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=895299", "title": "Atos", "text": "Atos\n\nAtos is a European IT services corporation with its headquarters in Bezons, France and offices worldwide. It specialises in hi-tech transactional services, unified communications, cloud, big data and cybersecurity services. Atos operates worldwide under the brands Atos, Atos Consulting, Atos Healthcare, Atos Worldgrid, Bull, Canopy, Unify and Worldline.\n\nThe company was formed in 1997 through a merger of two French IT companies; and combined with the Dutch-based company Origin B.V. in 2000 to become Atos Origin. It subsequently acquired KPMG Consulting in 2002 and SchlumbergerSema in 2004.\n\nIn 2010 Atos Origin announced the buyout of Siemens IT Solutions and Services and finalized the acquisition in July 2011. Afterwards, the company name reverted to Atos.\n\nIn April 2018, Atos partnered with Google Cloud to help offer secure artificial intelligence solutions.\n\nIn 1996, Origin B.V. was created after a merger of the Dutch company BSO and the Philips C&P (Communications & Processing) division, while a year later in 1997, Atos was created following a merger of the French companies Axime and Sligos. In 2001, Atos Origin sold its Nordic operations to WM-data. In 2002, it made a major acquisition by buying KPMG Consulting in the United Kingdom and in the Netherlands. Then in 2004, it acquired SchlumbergerSema, the IT service division of Schlumberger and took over the infrastructure division of ITELLIUM, a subsidiary of KarstadtQuelle.\n\nAt the same time (2004), the company created a new subsidiary, Atos Worldline, and the renaming of its consulting activities as Atos Consulting. Also in 2004, Atos Origin Australia, originating from Philips, was sold to Fujitsu. In 2005, Atos Origin sold its activities in the Nordic region, which had become part of the company with the acquisition of Sema Group, to WM-data while in 2006, Atos Origin sold its operations in the Middle East to local management.\n\nIn October 2007, Philippe Germond replaced longtime CEO Bernard Bourigeaud. Two shareholders, the hedge funds Centaurus Capital and Pardus Capital, tried to gain control over the company via the supervisory board. In November 2008, the boardroom battle came to an end when Thierry Breton replaced Philippe Germond as chairman and CEO.\n\nIn August 2010 Atos Origin acquired Indian payment company Venture Infotek.\n\nIn December 2010 Atos Origin agreed to acquire the IT Solutions and Services subsidiary of Siemens for €850 million. As part of the transaction, Siemens agreed to take a 15% stake in the enlarged Atos, to be held for a minimum of five years.\n\nThe company dropped the \"Origin\" suffix of its name in July 2011 after completing its acquisition of the Siemens unit.\nIn November 2011 Atos and software services provider Ufida International Holdings formed the joint venture Yunano. The two companies invested €5.7 million. Atos has 70 percent and UFIDA has 30 percent. The joint venture has its HQ in Bezons, France, a suburb of Paris. In 2012 Atos announced the creation of a new company called Canopy. The CEO is Philippe Llorens. In 2011 Atos introduced a Zero Email initiative, banning email as a form of internal communications, except for use with customers and prospects. As part of the initiative, Atos acquired the French software company blueKiwi in early 2012, rolling out their ZEN social networking software across its organisation.\n\nIn August 2014 Atos announced that it had acquired a controlling stake in Bull SA through a tender offer launched in May. Atos announced plans in October 2014 to buy out or squeeze out the remaining share and bondholders of Bull.\n\nOn 19 December 2014 Atos announced the acquisition of Xerox's IT Outsourcing business for , tripling the size of the North American business. The unit generated in Q3 2014, contains 9,800 employees and operates in 45 countries. The transaction closed on 30 June 2015.\n\nOn July 22, 2018 A powerful combination for Atos by acquiring a highly complementary portfolio, customer base and geographic footprint with 23,000 new joiners highly skilled in digital services.Atos and Syntel have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which Atos will acquire Syntel for cash consideration of c. $ 3.4 billion i.e. $ 41.0 per share, representing c. 14% premium over the last 30 trading days volume weighted average share price of Syntel. it brings a powerful suite of digital and proprietary solutions recognized by top analysts as being among the most advanced: cloud, social media, mobile, analytics, IoT, and automation at c. 40% of Syntel’s revenue .Syntel will significantly strengthen the Group’s Business & Platform Solutions Division worldwide with best-in-class delivery platform generating among the highest margins of the industry .This transaction expands Atos’s capabilities in North America to provide end-to-end services to US customers. It also strongly reinforces its Banking, Finance & Insurance verticals\n\nAtos activities are organized in four divisions: \n\nPositioned as a vendor of holistic digital transformation, Atos builds on four pillars within its \"Digital Transformation Factory\":\n\n\n\nIn September 2017, Atos has been recognized by Everest Group as a global leader - the only European one - for workplace services, consisting of mobility and security services in as-a-service mode, service desk and unified communications. \n\n\n\nAfter the Xerox ITO acquisition, North America has become Atos's largest business unit.\n\nAccording to a National Audit Office report on the government's four biggest suppliers, Atos earned £700 million in revenue from the public sector in the UK in 2012; of £7.2 billion sales worldwide. Atos holds £3 billion worth of UK government contracts providing services to a wide range of organizations including NHS Scotland, Home Office, Welsh Government, the Ministry of Defence, Transport for Greater Manchester, the BBC and a multimillion outsourcing contract to NS&I. In the United Kingdom, from 1998 - 2015 the company was at the centre of a controversy over the management of contracts by their healthcare division of the Work Capability Assessment for the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP).\n\nIn January 2017, Atos secured a five-year contract as key IT partner of the Western Australian state government. Extendable for an additional five years, the deal (up to $2.39 billion) will be allocated with two other ICT suppliers.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, from 1998 - 2015 Atos Healthcare was at the centre of a controversy over the management of contracts by their healthcare division of the Work Capability Assessment for the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). In August 2015, statistics from the Department of Work and Pensions revealed that 2,380 people had died between 2011 - 2014 soon after being found fit for work through disability benefit assessments. In 2014, \"the DWP negotiated an early exit from the existing WCA contract with the private firm, Atos, after raising concerns about the quality of its work\".\nHowever, Atos still (as of October 2016) undertakes work for the DWP in assessing Personal Independence Payment applications. The Press Association revealed in 2017 that Atos, used by the DWP to make its decisions, are set to be paid more than £700m for their five-year contracts against an original estimate of £512m.\n\nWhen Atos took over administering PIP's estimates of how fast claims could be processed were over-optimistic as were estimates of how easily claimants could get to assessment centres. This led to delays in assessments, distress to claimants and unexpectedly high costs. Atos was accused of misleading the government.\n\nAtos developed a computer system that would extract data from GP's computers Nationwide. Costs rose from £14 million to £40 million and it was felt Atos had taken insufficient care how it spent taxpayers' money.\n\nAtos lost the contract for fitness to work tests, Richard Hawkes of Scope said, \"I doubt there's a single disabled person who'll be sorry to hear that Atos will no longer be running the fit-for-work tests.\" Hawkes claimed the \"fundamentally flawed\" test should be \"more than an exercise in getting people off benefits. It should make sure disabled people get the specialist, tailored and flexible support they need to find and keep a job.\"\n\nMark Serwotka of Public and Commercial Services Union described the assessments as \"designed to harass vulnerable people and take their benefits away rather than provide support and guidance. Doctors, MPs and disabled people all believe the tests should be scrapped so, instead of replacing the failed Atos with another profit-hungry provider, the government should bring the work in-house and invest in it properly.\"\n\nLiberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron questioned how Atos and Capita could have been paid over £500m from tax payers money for assessing fitness to work as 61% who appealed won their appeals. Farron stated, “This adds to the suspicion that these companies are just driven by a profit motive, and the incentive is to get the assessments done, but not necessarily to get the assessments right. They are the ugly face of business.”\n\nIn 2014, Atos Healthcare rebranded its occupational health business to become OH Assist. The Atos Healthcare brand was reserved for use for the PIP contract. Atos sold its OH Assist business to CBPE Capital in 2015. \n\nIt was disclosed in November 2013 through the National Audit Office that Atos had paid no corporation tax at all in the UK in 2012. The total value of contracts that had been awarded to Atos by June 2013 was approximately £1.6 billion.\n\nAtos has been the official IT Partner for the Olympic Games since 2001 and is expected to continue until at least 2020. Atos, through the SchlumbergerSema's acquisition, was involved in previous Games during the 1990s, starting with the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992. Atos has been one of 11 major sponsors for the Olympic Games since 2001.\n\nIn 2011, some UK-based disability campaign groups called for a boycott of the 2012 Summer Paralympics due to Atos' sponsorship of the games and Atos Healthcare's UK contract to perform Work Capability Assessments on behalf of the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) During the first week of the Paralympics in the summer of 2012, activists and disabled people targeted Atos in a series of nationwide protests. This culminated on Friday 31 August with a demonstration outside Atos headquarters in London, which ended in a confrontation with the police.\n\nThrough the International Olympic Committee's TOP (The Olympic Partner) programme, Atos has sponsored athletes from all over the globe in order to support their Olympic ambitions, including Danny Crates, the 2004 Paralympic Champion in the 800m.\n\nAtos was named as an official supporter of the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. On 26 June 2013, \"Glasgow Against Atos\" occupied one of the Commonwealth Games venues in protest against Atos sponsorship.\n\nAtos was the official sponsor of 2015 Southeast Asian Games in Singapore.\n\nIn February 2017 Atos has been appointed as the first official sponsor of the Glasgow 2018 European Championships. The company has been awarded a £2.5 million contract for timing, scoring and results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2570928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2570928", "title": "Beta-Hydroxy beta-methylbutyric acid", "text": "Beta-Hydroxy beta-methylbutyric acid\n\nβ-Hydroxy β-methylbutyric acid (HMB), otherwise known as its conjugate base, , is a naturally produced substance in humans that is used as a dietary supplement and as an ingredient in certain medical foods that are intended to promote wound healing and provide nutritional support for people with muscle wasting due to cancer or HIV/AIDS. In healthy adults, supplementation with HMB has been shown to increase exercise-induced gains in muscle size, muscle strength, and lean body mass, reduce skeletal muscle damage from exercise, improve aerobic exercise performance, and expedite recovery from exercise. Medical reviews and meta-analyses indicate that HMB supplementation also helps to preserve or increase lean body mass and muscle strength in individuals experiencing age-related muscle loss. HMB produces these effects in part by stimulating the production of proteins and inhibiting the breakdown of proteins in muscle tissue. No adverse effects from long-term use as a dietary supplement in adults have been found.\n\nHMB is a metabolite of and is produced in the body through oxidation of the ketoacid of (α-ketoisocaproic acid). Since only a small fraction of is metabolized into HMB, pharmacologically active concentrations of the compound in blood plasma and muscle can only be achieved by supplementing HMB directly. A healthy adult produces approximately 0.3 grams of HMB per day, while supplemental HMB is usually taken in doses of  grams per day. HMB is sold as a dietary supplement at a cost of about per month when taking 3 grams per day. HMB is also contained in several nutritional products, including certain formulations of Ensure, Juven, and Myoplex. HMB is also present in insignificant quantities in certain foods, such as alfalfa, asparagus, avocados, cauliflower, grapefruit, and catfish.\n\nThe effects of HMB on human skeletal muscle were first discovered by Steven L. Nissen at Iowa State University in the . HMB has not been banned by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, World Anti-Doping Agency, or any other prominent national or international athletic organization. In 2006, only about 2% of college student athletes in the United States used HMB as a dietary supplement. As of 2017, HMB has found widespread use as an ergogenic supplement among young athletes.\n\nHMB is sold as an over-the-counter dietary supplement in the free acid form, \"β-hydroxy β-methylbutyric acid\" (HMB-FA), and as a monohydrated calcium salt of the conjugate base, \"calcium monohydrate\" (HMB-Ca, CaHMB). Since only a small fraction of HMB's metabolic precursor, , is metabolized into HMB, pharmacologically active concentrations of the compound in blood plasma and muscle can only be achieved by supplementing HMB directly. A healthy adult produces approximately 0.3 grams per day, while supplemental HMB is usually taken in doses of  grams per day. HMB is sold at a cost of about per month when taken in doses of 3 grams per day. HMB is also contained in several nutritional products and medical foods marketed by Abbott Laboratories (e.g., certain formulations of Ensure, Juven, and Myoplex), and is present in insignificant quantities in certain foods, such as alfalfa, asparagus, avocados, cauliflower, grapefruit, and catfish.\n\nSupplemental HMB has been used in clinical trials as a treatment for preserving lean body mass in muscle wasting conditions, particularly sarcopenia, and has been studied in clinical trials as an adjunct therapy in conjunction with resistance exercise. Based upon two medical reviews and a meta-analysis of seven randomized controlled trials, HMB supplementation can preserve or increase lean muscle mass and muscle strength in sarcopenic older adults. HMB does not appear to significantly affect fat mass in older adults. Preliminary clinical evidence suggests that HMB supplementation may also prevent muscle atrophy during bed rest. A growing body of evidence supports the efficacy of HMB in nutritional support for reducing, or even reversing, the loss of muscle mass, muscle function, and muscle strength that occurs in hypercatabolic disease states such as cancer cachexia; consequently, the authors of two 2016 reviews of the clinical evidence recommended that the prevention and treatment of sarcopenia and muscle wasting in general include supplementation with HMB, regular resistance exercise, and consumption of a high-protein diet.\n\nClinical trials that used HMB for the treatment of muscle wasting have involved the administration of 3 grams of HMB per day under different dosing regimens. According to one review, an optimal dosing regimen is to administer it in one 1 gram dose, three times a day, since this ensures elevated plasma concentrations of HMB throughout the day; however, the best dosing regimen for muscle wasting conditions is still being investigated.\n\nSome branded products that contain HMB (i.e., certain formulations of Ensure and Juven) are medical foods that are intended to be used to provide nutritional support under the care of a doctor in individuals with muscle wasting due to HIV/AIDS or cancer, to promote wound healing following surgery or injury, or when otherwise recommended by a medical professional. Juven, a nutrition product which contains 3 grams of , 14 grams of -arginine, and 14 grams of -glutamine per two servings, has been shown to improve lean body mass during clinical trials in individuals with AIDS and cancer, but not rheumatoid cachexia. Further research involving the treatment of cancer cachexia with Juven over a period of several months is required to adequately determine treatment efficacy.\n\nWith an appropriate exercise program, dietary supplementation with 3 grams of HMB per day has been shown to increase exercise-induced gains in muscle size, muscle strength and power, and lean body mass, reduce exercise-induced skeletal muscle damage, and expedite recovery from high-intensity exercise. Based upon limited clinical research, HMB supplementation may also improve aerobic exercise performance and increase gains in aerobic fitness when combined with high-intensity interval training. These effects of HMB are more pronounced in untrained individuals and athletes who perform high intensity resistance or aerobic exercise. In resistance-trained populations, the effects of HMB on muscle strength and lean body mass are limited. HMB effects muscle size, strength, mass, power, and recovery in part by stimulating myofibrillar muscle protein synthesis and inhibiting muscle protein breakdown through various mechanisms, including the activation of mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) and inhibition of proteasome-mediated proteolysis in skeletal muscles.\n\nThe efficacy of HMB supplementation for reducing skeletal muscle damage from prolonged or high-intensity exercise is affected by the time that it is used relative to exercise. The greatest reduction in skeletal muscle damage from a single bout of exercise has been shown to occur when is ingested  hours prior to exercise or is ingested  minutes prior to exercise.\n\nIn 2006, only about 2% of college student athletes in the United States used HMB as a dietary supplement. As of 2017, HMB has found widespread use as an ergogenic supplement among athletes. HMB has not been banned by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, World Anti-Doping Agency, or any other prominent national or international athletic organization.\n\nThe safety profile of HMB in adult humans is based upon evidence from clinical trials in humans and animal studies. In humans, no adverse effects in young adults or older adults have been reported when HMB is taken in doses of 3 grams per day for up to a year. Studies on young adults taking 6 grams of HMB per day for up to 2 months have also reported no adverse effects. Studies with supplemental HMB on young, growing rats and livestock have reported no adverse effects based upon clinical chemistry or observable characteristics; for humans younger than 18, there is limited data on the safety of supplemental HMB. The human equivalent dose of HMB for the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) that was identified in a rat model is approximately 0.4 g/kg of body weight per day.\n\nTwo animal studies have examined the effects of HMB supplementation in pregnant pigs on the offspring and reported no adverse effects on the fetus. No clinical testing with supplemental HMB has been conducted on pregnant women, and pregnant and lactating women are advised not to take HMB by Metabolic Technologies, Inc., the company that grants licenses to include HMB in dietary supplements, due to a lack of safety studies.\n\nSeveral components of the signaling cascade that mediates the HMB-induced increase in human skeletal muscle protein synthesis have been identified \"in vivo\". Similar to HMB's metabolic precursor, , HMB has been shown to increase protein synthesis in human skeletal muscle via phosphorylation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) and subsequent activation of , which leads to protein biosynthesis in cellular ribosomes via phosphorylation of mTORC1's immediate targets (i.e., the p70S6 kinase and the translation repressor protein 4EBP1). Supplementation with HMB in several non-human animal species has been shown to increase the serum concentration of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) via an unknown mechanism, in turn promoting protein synthesis through increased mTOR phosphorylation. Based upon limited clinical evidence in humans, supplemental HMB appears to increase the secretion of growth hormone and IGF-1 in response to resistance exercise.\n\n, the signaling cascade that mediates the HMB-induced reduction in muscle protein breakdown has not been identified in living humans, although it is well-established that it attenuates proteolysis in humans \"in vivo\". Unlike , HMB attenuates muscle protein breakdown in an insulin-independent manner in humans. HMB is believed to reduce muscle protein breakdown in humans by inhibiting the 19S and 20S subunits of the ubiquitin–proteasome system in skeletal muscle and by inhibiting apoptosis of skeletal muscle nuclei via unidentified mechanisms.\n\nBased upon animal studies, HMB appears to be metabolized within skeletal muscle into cholesterol, which may then be incorporated into the muscle cell membrane, thereby enhancing membrane integrity and function. The effects of HMB on muscle protein metabolism may help stabilize muscle cell structure. One review suggested that the observed HMB-induced reduction in the plasma concentration of muscle damage biomarkers (i.e., muscle enzymes such as creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase) in humans following intense exercise may be due to a cholesterol-mediated improvement in muscle cell membrane function.\n\nHMB has been shown to stimulate the proliferation, differentiation, and fusion of human myosatellite cells \"in vitro\", which potentially increases the regenerative capacity of skeletal muscle, by increasing the protein expression of certain myogenic regulatory factors (e.g., myoD and myogenin) and gene transcription factors (e.g., MEF2). HMB-induced human myosatellite cell proliferation \"in vitro\" is mediated through the phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinases ERK1 and ERK2. HMB-induced human myosatellite differentiation and accelerated fusion of myosatellite cells into muscle tissue \"in vitro\" is mediated through the phosphorylation of Akt, a serine/threonine-specific protein kinase. \n\nThe free acid () and monohydrated calcium salt () forms of HMB have different pharmacokinetics. HMB-FA is more readily absorbed into the bloodstream and has a longer elimination half-life (3 hours) relative to HMB-Ca (2.5 hours). Tissue uptake and utilization of HMB-FA is higher than for HMB-Ca. The fraction of an ingested dose that is excreted in urine does not differ between the two forms.\nAfter ingestion, is converted to following dissociation of the calcium moiety in the gut. When the HMB-Ca dosage form is ingested, the magnitude and time at which the peak plasma concentration of HMB occurs depends on the dose and concurrent food intake. Higher HMB-Ca doses increase the rate of absorption, resulting in a peak plasma HMB level (C) that is disproportionately greater than expected of a linear dose-response relationship and which occurs sooner relative to lower doses. Consumption of HMB-Ca with sugary substances slows the rate of HMB absorption, resulting in a lower peak plasma HMB level that occurs later.\nHMB is eliminated via the kidneys, with roughly of an ingested dose being excreted unchanged in urine. The remaining of the dose is retained in tissues or excreted as HMB metabolites. The fraction of a given dose of HMB that is excreted unchanged in urine increases with the dose.\n\nThe metabolism of HMB is catalyzed by an uncharacterized enzyme which converts it to (). HMB-CoA is metabolized by either enoyl-CoA hydratase or another uncharacterized enzyme, producing β-methylcrotonyl-CoA () or hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA () respectively. is then converted by the enzyme methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase to methylglutaconyl-CoA (), which is subsequently converted to by methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase. is then cleaved into and acetoacetate by lyase or used in the production of cholesterol via the mevalonate pathway.\n\nIn healthy individuals, approximately 60% of dietary is metabolized after several hours, with roughly 5% ( range) of dietary being converted to .<includeonly> Around 40% of dietary is converted to , which is subsequently used in the synthesis of other compounds.</includeonly>\n\nThe vast majority of metabolism is initially catalyzed by the branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase enzyme, producing (α-KIC). α-KIC is mostly metabolized by the mitochondrial enzyme branched-chain dehydrogenase, which converts it to isovaleryl-CoA. Isovaleryl-CoA is subsequently metabolized by isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase and converted to , which is used in the synthesis of acetyl-CoA and other compounds. During biotin deficiency, HMB can be synthesized from via enoyl-CoA hydratase and an unknown thioesterase enzyme, which convert into and into HMB respectively. A relatively small amount of α-KIC is metabolized in the liver by the cytosolic enzyme 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (KIC dioxygenase), which converts α-KIC to HMB. In healthy individuals, this minor pathway – which involves the conversion of to α-KIC and then HMB – is the predominant route of HMB synthesis.\n\n acid is a monocarboxylic β-hydroxy acid and natural product with the molecular formula . At room temperature, pure acid occurs as a transparent, colorless to light yellow liquid which is soluble in water. acid is a weak acid with a p\"K\" of 4.4. Its refractive index (formula_1) is 1.42.\n\n acid is a member of the carboxylic acid family of organic compounds. It is a structural analog of butyric acid with a hydroxyl functional group and a methyl substituent located on its beta carbon. By extension, other structural analogs include acid and acid.\n\nA variety of synthetic routes to acid have been developed. The first reported chemical syntheses approached HMB by oxidation of alkene, vicinal diol, and alcohol precursors:\nDepending on the experimental conditions, cycloaddition of acetone and ketene produces either or 4,4-dimethyloxetan-2-one, both of which hydrolyze under basic conditions to yield the conjugate base of HMB. The haloform reaction provides another pathway to HMB involving the exhaustive halogenation of the methyl-ketone region of diacetone alcohol with sodium hypobromite or sodium hypochlorite; Diacetone alcohol is readily available from the aldol condensation of acetone. An organometallic approach to HMB involves the carboxylation of \"tert\"-butyl alcohol with carbon monoxide and Fenton's reagent (hydrogen peroxide and ferrous iron). Alternatively, HMB can be prepared through microbial oxidation of acid by the fungus \"Galactomyces reessii\".\nThe concentration of naturally produced HMB has been measured in several human body fluids using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry, and gas chromatography–mass spectrometry methods. In the blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of healthy adults, the average molar concentration of HMB has been measured at 4.0 micromolar (μM). The average concentration of HMB in the intramuscular fluid of healthy men of ages has been measured at 7.0 μM. In the urine of healthy individuals of any age, the excreted urinary concentration of HMB has been measured in a range of  micromoles per millimole (μmol/mmol) of creatinine. In the breast milk of healthy lactating women, HMB and have been measured in ranges of  μg/L and  mg/L. In comparison, HMB has been detected and measured in the milk of healthy cows at a concentration of  μg/L. This concentration is far too low to be an adequate dietary source of HMB for obtaining pharmacologically active concentrations of the compound in blood plasma.\n\nIn a study where participants consumed 2.42 grams of pure while fasting, the average plasma HMB concentration increased from a basal level of 5.1  to 408 μM after 30 minutes. At 150 minutes post-ingestion, the average plasma HMB concentration among participants was 275 μM.\n\nAbnormal HMB concentrations in urine and blood plasma have been noted in several disease states where it may serve as a diagnostic biomarker, particularly in the case of metabolic disorders. The following table lists some of these disorders along with the associated HMB concentrations detected in urine or blood plasma.\n\nThe first reported chemical synthesis of HMB was published in 1877 by the Russian chemists Michael and Alexander Zaytsev. HMB was isolated from the bark of \"Erythrophleum couminga\" (a Madagascan tree) in 1941 by Leopold Ružička. The earliest reported isolation of HMB as a human metabolite was by Tanaka and coworkers in 1968 from a patient with isovaleric acidemia.\n\nThe effects of HMB on human skeletal muscle were first discovered by Steven L. Nissen at Iowa State University in the . Nissen founded a company called Metabolic Technologies, Inc. (MTI) around the time of his discovery, which later acquired six HMB-related patents that the company has used to license the right to manufacture and incorporate HMB into dietary supplements. When it first became available commercially in the late 1990s, HMB was marketed solely as an exercise supplement to help athletes and bodybuilders build muscle. MTI subsequently developed two HMB-containing products, Juven and Revigor, to which Abbott Nutrition obtained the market rights in 2003 and 2008 respectively. Since then, Abbott has marketed Juven as a medical food and the Revigor brand of HMB as an active ingredient in food products for athletes (e.g., certain formulations of Myoplex) and other medical foods (e.g., certain formulations of Ensure).\n"}
{"id": "35416894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35416894", "title": "Clitoral photoplethysmograph", "text": "Clitoral photoplethysmograph\n\nClitoral photoplethysmography uses a direct current signal to measure clitoral blood volume (CBV). \n\nA clitoral photoplethysmograph is a small clear acrylic device that contains a light source, and a light detector. The light source illuminates the capillary bed of the clitoral tissue and the blood circulating within it. As clitoral engorgement increases, more light is reflected into the photosensitive cell of the device. The clitoral photoplethysmograph is placed by the participant between the labia minora; the light detector is oriented toward the clitoris. It can be attached to a vaginal photoplethysmograph so that both CBV and vaginal pulse amplitude (VPA) can be measured simultaneously. \n\nGerritsen found clitoral photoplethysmography to be a valid and sensitive tool for measuring female genital response. In contrast to vaginal photoplethysmography, clitoral photoplethysmographs are sensitive to the inhibition of sexual response. The authors suggest that clitoral photoplethysmography is particularly informative for examining sexual inhibition. Some researchers have posited that the procedure might be a viable instrument for assessing female sex offenders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44855979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44855979", "title": "Dental pharmacology", "text": "Dental pharmacology\n\n\"Dental pharmacology\"' is the study of drugs used to treat conditions of the oral cavity.\n\nSome of these drugs include antibiotics, analgesics, anti-inflammatory drugs and anti-periodontitis agents.\n"}
{"id": "52336877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52336877", "title": "Disability History Association", "text": "Disability History Association\n\nThe Disability History Association (DHA) is an international non-profit organization that promotes the study of disabilities. This includes, but is not limited to, the history of individuals or groups with disabilities, perspectives on disability, representations/ constructions of disability, policy and practice history, teaching, theory, and disability and related social and civil rights movements.\n\nThe DHA defines both history and disability widely. This organization is both inclusive and international, reflected in its diverse topics and approaches. Membership is open to scholars, institutions and organizations, and others working in all geographic regions and all time periods.\n\nThe DHA offers its members a community of active and interesting historians; access to its resources page, which includes a newsletter, conference information, sample syllabi, and helpful links; as well as an opportunity to help build an exciting field.\n\nAs an academic organization, the Disability History Association strives to attract more professional and public attention to the importance of disability as a category of analysis and the histories of people with disabilities in the past and present. As the DHA website says: “This organization is both inclusive and international, reflected in our diverse topics and approaches. Membership is open to scholars, institutions and organizations, and others working in all geographic regions and all time periods.” The Disability History Association is an affiliated member of the American Historical Association (AHA) and the Organization of American Historians (OAH) to promote inclusivity of disability in the profession and discipline.\n\nThe origin of the Disability History Association came from informal conversations by a group of pioneering disability scholars at the Summer Institute on Disability Studies in the Humanities at San Francisco State University in 2000. The following year, they created H-Disability, a discussion group in the prominent online scholarly platform H-Net. In 2004, the organization held its first board meeting, and then the community was incorporated into the Disability History Association in 2007. In 2008, the Disability History Association, British Disability History Group, and the San Francisco State University cosponsored an international academic conference for disability history.\n\n\nEvery year the Disability History Association sponsors a publication award for a book or an article. The winners of this Publication Award for the past, recent years include:\n\n2012: David M. Turner. \"New Disability in Eighteenth-Century England: Imagining Physical Impairment\". (York: Routledge, 2012)\n\n2013: Audra Jennings. “‘An Emblem of Distinction’: The Politics of Disability Entitlement, 1940-1950,” in \"Veterans’ Policies, Veterans’ Politics: New Perspectives on Veterans in the Modern United States\" ed. Stephen R. Ortiz, (University Press of Florida, 2012)\n\n2014: Sebastian Barsch, Anne Klein, and Pieter Verstraete, eds. \"The Imperfect Historian: Disability Histories in Europe\" (Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang, 2013).\n\n2015: Dea H. Boster, \"'I Made Up My Mind to Act Both Deaf and Dumb': Displays of Disability and Slave Resistance in the Antebellum American South,\" \"Disability and Passing: Blurring the Lines of Identity\", Jeffrey A. Brune and Daniel J. Wilson, eds. (Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2013), 71-98.\n\n2016: Sara Scalenghe, \"Disability in the Ottoman Arab World\", 1500-1800 (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2014).\n"}
{"id": "38399162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38399162", "title": "Duplex strainers", "text": "Duplex strainers\n\nDuplex strainer or twin basket strainer is a type of filter built into a fuel, oil or water piping system and it is used to remove large particles of dirt and debris. The duplex strainer system usually consists of two separate strainer baskets housings. The system also contains a valve handle placed between the two baskets to divert the flow of liquid to one strainer while the other is being cleaned. On some strainers, the valve will work automatically and the strainer will perform a self-cleaning operation.\n\nThese types of strainers are installed in pipeline systems where flow cannot be stopped. Depending upon their NB size they are capable of filtration up to 40 µm. Basket Strainers find use in industries where impurities are mostly solids. Unlike other types of strainers, it is easy to conduct maintenance on these strainers.\n\nDuplex strainers are mainly used in various industries such as process industry, power industry, chemical industry, oil and gas industry, pulp and paper industry, pharmaceutical industry, metals and mining industry, water and waste management, fire fighting industry, refineries and petrochemical plants. Strainers are used to remove hazardous elements that might cause partial or complete breakdown of operations if they get into the system.\n\n"}
{"id": "44013878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44013878", "title": "Economic evaluation", "text": "Economic evaluation\n\nEconomic evaluation is the process of systematic identification, measurement and valuation of the inputs and outcomes of two alternative activities, and the subsequent comparative analysis of these. The purpose of economic evaluation is to identify the best course of action, based on the evidence available. It is most commonly employed in the context of health economics and health technology assessment; in the UK, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence publishes guidelines for the conduct of economic evaluations.\n\nEconomic evaluations can take a number of forms, namely:\n"}
{"id": "21192816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21192816", "title": "Eeyeekalduk", "text": "Eeyeekalduk\n\nIn Inuit mythology, Eeyeekalduk was the god of medicine and good health.\n"}
{"id": "3304538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3304538", "title": "Emergen-C", "text": "Emergen-C\n\nEmergen-C is an effervescent, powdered drink mix vitamin supplement manufactured by Alacer Corp. The Emergen-C product line was introduced in 1978. Alacer was established as a private company in 1972, focusing on vitamin supplements containing vitamin C. In 2012, the company was acquired by Pfizer.\n\nIt contains, depending on the variety, 16 times the vitamin C, 4 times the vitamin B, and 5 times the vitamin B of the USDA Reference Daily Intake based on a 2000 calorie diet. Some versions include calcium, glucosamine, quercetin or lycopene. Studies have failed to establish evidence for the use of vitamin C megadoses as a cold remedy or in reducing cold incidences.\n\nAlacer manufactures its products in the United States, in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.\n\nGMO ingredients are used. From the Alacer website: \"We have chosen to source materials that are non-GMO whenever possible. That being said, we cannot guarantee that all of our raw materials are sourced from non-GMO ingredients and do not currently have this requirement in place for our vendors\". Most products do not contain animal-derived ingredients, but some certain products contain chondroitin from cows, honey, and vitamin D from wool.\n\nIn December 2013, a superior court judge preliminarily approved a $6.45 million settlement to a class-action lawsuit filed against Alacer Corp. for alleged deceptive marketing. The complaint, which was originally filed earlier in the year, alleged that the company misleadingly represented that the supplement would provide health benefits – including reducing the risk of or preventing colds and flu – without scientific evidence to support such claims. According to the settlement terms, class members may receive a refund of up to $36 with proof of purchase. (\"Wong et al v. Alacer Corp.,\" Case No. CGC-12-519221, Superior Court of California County of San Francisco). A superior court judge gave final approval of the settlement to this lawsuit in June 2014.\n\nIn 1997, Alacer established The Emergen-C Fund, which has raised more than $650,000.\nThis fund provides support to Vitamin Angels, Surfrider Foundation, Keep A Breast Foundation, Young Survival Coalition, and Whole Foods' Whole Planet Foundation.\n\nAlacer sponsors Operation Gratitude, a volunteer organization that has sent care packages to U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nIn 2008 Emergen-C teamed up with surf artist Jay Alders to create art for the packaging of their new product/flavor, Emergen-C Blue, with 25 cents donated to Surfrider Foundation for each box sold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44382343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44382343", "title": "Environmental enteropathy", "text": "Environmental enteropathy\n\nEnvironmental enteropathy (EE) (also known as tropical enteropathy or environmental enteric dysfunction) is a disorder of chronic intestinal inflammation. EE is most common amongst children living in low-resource settings. Acute symptoms are typically minimal or absent. EE can lead to malnutrition, anemia (iron-deficiency anemia and anemia of chronic inflammation), growth stunting, impaired brain development, and impaired response to oral vaccinations.\n\nThe cause of EE is multifactorial. Overall, exposure to contaminated food and water leads to a generalized state of intestinal inflammation. The inflammatory response results in multiple pathological changes to the gastrointestinal tract: Smaller villi, larger crypts (called crypt hyperplasia), increased permeability, and inflammatory cell build-up within the intestines. These changes result in poor absorption of food, vitamins and minerals. \n\nStandardized, clinically practical diagnostic criteria do not exist. The most accurate diagnostic test is intestinal biopsy. However, this test is invasive and unnecessary for most patients.\n\nPrevention is the strongest and most reliable option for preventing EE and its effects. Therefore, prevention and treatment of EE are often discussed together.\n\nEnvironmental enteropathy is believed to result in chronic malnutrition and subsequent growth stunting (low height-for-age measurement) as well as other child development deficits.\n\nEE is rarely symptomatic and is considered a subclinical condition. However, adults may have mild symptoms or malabsorption such as altered stool consistency, increased stool frequency and weight loss.\n\nThe development of EE is multifactorial, but predominantly associated with chronic exposure to contaminated food and water. This is especially true in environments where widespread open defecation and lack of sanitation are common.\n\nLong-term exposure to environmental pathogens leads to a generalized state of intestinal inflammation. Chronic inflammation leads to both functional and structural changes which alter gut permeability and ability of the intestine to absorb nutrients.\n\nSpecifically, structural changes within the intestine include smaller villi, larger crypts (called crypt hyperplasia), increased permeability, and inflammatory cell build-up within the intestines. These changes result in poor absorption of food, vitamins and minerals – or \"modest malabsorption\".\nThe current gold standard diagnostic test for EE is intestinal biopsy and histological analysis. Histological changes observed include:\nHowever, this procedure is considered too invasive, complex and expensive to be implemented as standard of care. As a result, there are various research efforts underway to identify biomarkers associated with EE, which could serve as less invasive, yet representative, tools to screen for and identify EE from stool samples.\n\nIn an effort to identify simple, accurate diagnostic tests for EE, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) has established an EE biomarkers consortium as part of their Global Grand Challenges initiative (specifically, the Discover Biomarkers of Gut Function challenge).\n\nSo far, various biomarkers have been selected and studied based on the current understanding of EE pathophysiology:\nIt is postulated that the limited of understanding of EE is partially due to the paucity of reliable biomarkers, making it difficult for researchers to track the epidemiology of the condition and assess the efficacy of interventions.\n\nIn the 1960s, researchers reported a syndrome of non-specific histopathological and functional changes to the small intestine in individuals living in unsanitary conditions. This syndrome was observed predominantly in tropical regions across Latin America, sub-Saharan Africa and Asia. The geographic distribution of the syndrome lead to the original term of \"tropical enteropathy\" (sometimes also \"tropical jejunopathy\").\n\nFollowing initial reports, further investigation revealed that these symptoms were not specific to tropical climates. For example, individuals in more wealthy tropical countries, such as Qatar and Singapore, did not exhibit these symptoms. Similarly, subsequent studies have shown this condition to be common across the developing world, closely associated with impoverished conditions but independent of climate or geography. As a result, the term \"environmental enteropathy\" was introduced to specify that this condition is not only found in tropical areas and is believed to be caused by environmental factors.\n\nPrevention focuses on improving sanitation of water and food sources.\n\nAnother important factor might be contaminated soil in child play spaces, often caused by the presence of livestock such as chicken in the household. Creating a clean play space might therefore be an effective preventive measure for EE in toddlers.\n\nTreatment focuses on addressing the central components of intestinal inflammation, bacterial overgrowth and nutritional supplementation.\n\nThere are multiple large-field, multi-country research initiatives focusing on strategies to prevent and treat EE.\n"}
{"id": "15397511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15397511", "title": "European Health Telematics Observatory", "text": "European Health Telematics Observatory\n\nThe European Health Telematics Observatory (EHTO) is a non-profit organization which collects, analyses and makes available in a user-friendly form information on developments in the field of health telematics. The organization contributes to the deployment of health telematics applications and standards in Europe. EHTO works on the dissemination of results of the European Telematics Applications Programme (TAP) of the Fourth Framework Programme to the European health care sector.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8098264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8098264", "title": "European Institute for Health Records", "text": "European Institute for Health Records\n\nThe European Institute for Health Records or EuroRec Institute is a non-profit organization founded in 2002 as part of the ProRec initiative. On 13 May 2003, the institute was established as a non-profit organization under French law. Current President of EuroRec is Prof. Dipak Kalra. The institute is involved in the promotion of high quality Electronic Health Record systems in the European Union. One of the main missions of the institute is to support, as the European authorised certification body, EHRs certification development, testing and assessment by defining functional and other criteria.\n\nThe objectives of the institute are:\n\nThe main goal of the ARGOS project was to contribute to creating \"Transatlantic Observatory for Meeting Global Health Policy Challenges through ICT-Enabled Solutions\" to allow promotion of \"Common Methods for Responding to Global eHealth Challenges in the EU and the US\". The results are used to provide various users recommendations in sustaining co-ordinated actions. It is important to both Europe and America of United States because:\n\n\nThrough the challenges of enhancing ehealth strategy development, promoting benefits of consistent strategies and supporting large scale ehealth infrastructure implementations will allow Europe and United States researchers and policy makers gain mutual understanding and learning.\n\nThe main topics that were address within this project was; ehealth interoperability an EHR certifications, establishing an approach and identification of indicators of the usage and benefits of ehealth, and aiding clinicians in diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases through human physiology and disease modelling and simulation. However the project has highlighted challenges in establishing competent ehealth informatics staff. There are variations of understanding, qualification and definition of workforce requirements through Europe and The United States.\n\nHITCH project begun 01/01/10 and ended on the 30/06/11. The objective of this project was to involve major stakeholders in defining and agreeing a roadmap that is essential to the foundation for the Interoperability Conformance Testing of information systems in the field of healthcare. HITCH project aims to propose plans on achieving interoperability conformance testing foundation starting 2011 through evaluating existing approaches and identifying potential gaps in initiatives. The roadmap will identify specific needs in improving processes and tools development that will support research. The roadmap will be tested in real-world settings with healthcare IT applications to determine the next logicals steps in establishing a credibility amongst major stakeholders (vendors, users, patients and authorities).\n\nThe Q-REC project started 01/01/06 and finished on 30/06/08. It is a project that is a Specific Support Action and its objective is to supplement the existing e-Health ERA Co-ordination Project \"Towards the establishment of a European e Health Research Area\". It aims is to create an credible, sustainable and efficient means in certifying EHR system in Europe by concentrating EHR Systems Quality Labeling and Certification Development, Resources for EHR interoperatability, and Benchmarking Services.\n\nSome of the goals stated by Q-REC and EuroREC webpage includes:\n\n\n\nBenchmarking Services\n\n\nThis project was done with EuroRec institute whose mission was to promote high quality EHRs throughout Europe. Through its networks and its centres acting as platforms along with the collaboration with eHealth ERA consortium and European Health Care Authorities (HCA)/ Ministries groups, EuroRec has provided various methods in assessing the needs and optimal choice methods for quality labelling and certification of EHRs.\n\nRIDE is a project that aims to provide a solid foundation for the action plans of eHealth Communication COM 356. It begun on 01/01/06 and ended on 31/12/07. Through research and development into the interoperability of eHealth systems, meaningful recommendations can be made for actions at a European level. The lack of complete harmonisation between clinical practice, terminology and EHR systems have highlighted that there is an unrealistic expectation in developing a single universally clinical data model. Hence the RIDE project objective is to provide a roadmap through focusing on current limitations of policies and strategies in solutions for ehealth interoperability and assessing health's European best practices in regards to providing semantic interoperability.\n\nThe objective of EHR-IMPLEMENT is to provide best practice, policy and strategic recommendations in the implementation of EHR in Europe. This is done though the collection and analysis of EHR implementations in various countries. Previous EHR projects have always addressed the technological area in EHR. Other commonly overlooked in projects, the EHR-IMPLEMENT will focus the social and organisational on a broad national initiative, as these factor may potentially hinder, if not ruin the EHR implementation.\n\nThis project comprised a case study approach and a foused survey at a European level. It aims to analyse and collect information on best practices and eloborate recommendations for policy makers to facilitate EHR into member states.\n\nAccording to EuroREC, these are the main objectives of the projects:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35689039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35689039", "title": "Extremotroph", "text": "Extremotroph\n\nAn extremotroph (from Latin ' meaning \"extreme\" and Greek ' () meaning \"food\") is an organism that feeds on matter that is not typically considered to be food to most life on Earth. \"These anthropocentric definitions that we make of extremophily and extremotrophy focus on a single environmental extreme but many extremophiles may fall into multiple categories, for example, organisms living inside hot rocks deep under the Earth's surface.\"\n\n\nExtremotrophs are used as bioremediation and biodegradation agents.\n"}
{"id": "6286707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6286707", "title": "Food heritage", "text": "Food heritage\n\nFood heritage is a term that encompasses the origins of plants and animals and their dispersal, the sites where people first cultivated plants and domesticated animals, as well as the earliest locations around the world where people first processed, prepared, sold and ate foods. These locations include farms, all types of mill, dairies, orchards, vineyards, breweries, restaurants and cafes, markets and groceries, hotels and inns. \nFood museums help to preserve global and local food heritage. Agropolis Museum in Montpellier, France is an example of an actual museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16540142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16540142", "title": "Health in Kazakhstan", "text": "Health in Kazakhstan\n\nThe Healthcare system in Kazakhstan is a post-Soviet healthcare system under reform.\n\nLife expectancy at birth in Kazakhstan is 148th in the world, below most developed nations and some developing nations. It is below the average life expectancy for the European Union.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO), in 2000, ranked the Kazakhstani healthcare system as the 64th in overall performance, and 135th by overall level of health (among 191 member nations included in the study).\n\nThe quality of healthcare, which remained entirely under state control in 2006, declined in the post-Soviet era because of insufficient funding and the loss of technical experts through emigration. Between 1989 and 2001, the ratio of doctors per 10,000 inhabitants fell by 15% , to 34.6, and the ratio of hospital beds per 10,000 inhabitants fell by 46%, to 74. By 2005 those indicators had recovered somewhat, to 55 and 77, respectively. Since 1991, health care has consistently lacked adequate government funding; in 2005 only 2.5% of gross domestic product went for that purpose. A government health reform program aims to increase that figure to 4% in 2010. A compulsory health insurance system has been in the planning stages for several years. Wages for health workers are extremely low, and equipment is in critically short supply. The main foreign source of medical equipment is Japan. Because of cost, the emphasis of treatment increasingly is on outpatient care instead of the hospital care preferred under the Soviet system. The health system is in crisis in rural areas such as the Aral Sea region, where health is most affected by pollution.\n\nThe most common diseases are respiratory infections, cardiovascular conditions, and tuberculosis. Since 2000, the incidence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has increased, as has the incidence of environment-linked cancers. In 2003 an estimated 23,000 citizens had HIV. Because of increasing numbers of people in high-risk categories, such as female sex workers and intravenous narcotics users, experts forecast an increase in that figure. In 2003 an estimated 80 percent of cases were narcotics-related. In 2006 an outbreak of juvenile HIV caused by improper hospital techniques gained national attention. In the first nine months of 2006, some 1,285 new cases were reported officially.\n\n37 mothers died per 100,000 live births in 2009. The maternal mortality rate had gone down slightly in comparison to 2008.\n\nOfficials reported very high numbers for suicides in Kazakhstan.\n\nHealthcare in Kazakhstan is provided by a network of primary, secondary and tertiary care facilities. Healthcare facilities are largely owned and operated by the public sector represented by the Ministry of Health. Health insurance is now primarily provided by the government in the public sector.\n\nHealthcare providers in Kazakhstan encompass individual healthcare personnel, healthcare facilities and medical products.\n\nThe public hospitals share of total hospital capacity has remained relatively stable (about 70%) for decades. There are also privately owned for-profit hospitals as well as government hospitals in some locations, mainly owned by county and city governments.\n\nThere is a nationwide system of government-owned medical facilities open to the general public. The national Department of Defense operates field hospitals as well as permanent hospitals (the Military Health System), to provide military-funded care to active military personnel.\n\nHospitals provide some outpatient care in their emergency rooms and specialty clinics, but primarily exist to provide inpatient care. Hospital emergency departments and urgent care centers are sources of sporadic problem-focused care. Hospice services for the terminally ill who are expected to live six months or less are most commonly subsidized by charities and government. Prenatal, family planning care is government-funded obstetric and gynaecological specialty and provided in primary care facilities, and are usually staffed by nurse practitioners (midwives).\n\nA big share of medical health care is delivered through a vast network of primary care facilities called ambulatories and policlinics.\n\nOne of executive branches in Kazakhstani government to control, regulate and organize the delivery of social services in public health and medical care. One of the office head was Salidat Kayirbekova.\n\n\nNational Medical Holding is an experimental health system located in capital city Astana. Its purpose is to be \"medical cluster\", so new health technologies could be acquired, developed and disseminated across the nation. It comprises several hospitals under centralized management, and as of 2012 is subordinated to Nazarbayev University.\n\nMultiple domestic and international health NGOs conduct their work in Kazakhstan.\n\nEnacted in 2010, new Code of Health proposed several changes in existing procedures in healthcare quality assurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "24665596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24665596", "title": "Health of Abraham Lincoln", "text": "Health of Abraham Lincoln\n\nThe physical and mental health of Abraham Lincoln has been the subject of both contemporaneous commentary and subsequent hypotheses by historians and scholars.\n\nDespite the following occurrences, Lincoln's health up until middle age was fairly good for his day.\n\nThere were fears for young Lincoln's life during a 24-hour period of unconsciousness that followed a horse kicking him in the head. He was nine years old when this occurred.\n\n\nLincoln died from a bullet wound to the head in 1865. His other episodes of adult trauma were minor. He was clubbed on the head during a robbery attempt in 1828, was struck by his wife (apparently on multiple occasions), cut his hand with an axe at least once, and incurred frostbite of his feet in 1830-1831.\n\nThe shape (\"habitus\") of Lincoln's body attracted attention while he was alive, and continues to attract attention today among medical professionals. Geneticists are now skeptical of the hypothesis that Marfan syndrome was the cause of his unusual habitus (see below).\n\n\n\nThe theory that Lincoln was afflicted with type 5 spinocerebellar ataxia is no longer accepted. \nThe theory that Lincoln's facial asymmetries were a manifestation of craniofacial microsomia has been replaced with a diagnosis of left synostotic frontal plagiocephaly, which is a type of craniosynostosis.\n\nLincoln was contemporaneously described as suffering from \"melancholy,\" a condition which modern mental health professionals would characterize as clinical depression.\n\nIt was during his time as an Illinois legislator that Joshua Speed said Lincoln anonymously published a suicide poem in the Sangamo Journal; though he was not sure of the date, a suicide poem was published on August 25, 1838, making Lincoln 29 years of age. The poem is called \"The Suicide's Soliloquy;\" historians are still divided on whether or not Lincoln was the author.\n\nWhether he may have suffered from depression as a genetic predilection, as a reaction to multiple emotional traumas in his life, or a combination thereof is the subject of much current conjecture.\n\nLincoln suffered depressed mood after major traumatic events, such as the death of Ann Rutledge in August 1835, the cessation of his (purported) engagement to Mary Todd Lincoln in January 1841 (after which several close associates feared Lincoln's suicide), and after the Second Battle of Bull Run. However, it is not clear that any of these episodes meet modern medical criteria for depression.\n\nMary Lincoln felt her husband to be too trusting, and his melancholy tended to strike at times he was betrayed or unsupported by those in whom he put faith.\n\nLincoln would often combat his melancholic moods by delving into works of humor, likely a healthy coping mechanism for his depression.\n\nIt has been proposed that Lincoln took \"blue mass\" pills to improve his mood. There is, however, no support for this in the written record. (See \"Medication\" section, below.)\n\nThe recollections of Lincoln's legal colleagues (John Stuart, Henry Whitney, Ward Lamon, and William Herndon) all agree that Lincoln took blue mass pills because of constipation (constipation is a troubling symptom in multiple endocrine neoplasia Type 2B, described above). The active ingredient of blue mass is elemental mercury – a substance now known to be a neurotoxin in its vaporic state. Whether mercury poisoning may have affected Lincoln's demeanor before or after he ceased its use in 1861 is unknown, but still remains the subject of conjecture by some historians. Lincoln's only known assessments of the medication are that it made him \"cross\" but that he preferred it above others.\n\nIn 1865, speaking with the Washington correspondent of the Pittsburgh Chronicle, Mrs. Lincoln described an instance in which her husband's \"usual medicine,\" the mercury based \"blue pills\" made him terribly ill. The correspondent recorded the interview as follows: Mrs. Lincoln \"recalled the fact that her husband had been very ill, for several days, from the effects of a dose of blue pills taken shortly before his second inauguration.\" She said he was not well, and appearing to require his usual medicine, blue pills, she sent to the drug store in which Harrold was employed last and got a dose and gave them to him at night before going to bed, and that next morning his pallor terrified her. 'His face,' said she, pointing to the bed beside which she sat, 'was white as that pillow-case, as it lay just there,' she exclaimed, laying her hand on the pillow—'white, and such a deadly white; as he tried to rise he sank back again quite overcome!' She described his anxiety to be up, there was so much to do, and her persistence and his oppressive languor in keeping him in bed for several days; said he and she both thought it so strange that the pills should affect him in that way; they had never done so before, and both concluded they would get no more medicine there, as the attendant evidently did not understand making up prescriptions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23004374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23004374", "title": "Hermann Stieve", "text": "Hermann Stieve\n\nHermann Philipp Rudolf Stieve (22 May 1886 – 5 September 1952) was a German physician, anatomist and histologist. Following his medical studies, he served in the German Army during First World War and became interested in the effect of stress and other environmental factors on the female reproductive system, the subject of his later research. In 1921 he became the youngest doctor to chair the medical department of a German university. He taught medicine at the University of Berlin, and was Director of the Berlin Institute of Anatomy at the Charité teaching hospital in the later years of his life.\n\nMuch of Stieve's research was conducted during the 1930s, after the Nazi Party had come to power in Germany. He did not join the party himself, but as an ardent German nationalist supported Adolf Hitler in the hope of restoring national pride. The Nazis imprisoned and executed many of their political opponents, and their corpses became Stieve's primary research material, with his full awareness of their origin. While much of his work is still considered valuable—among other things, he provided scientific evidence that the rhythm method was not effective in preventing pregnancy—it is considered tainted by his effective collaboration with the Nazi regime's political repression, especially in light of its later genocides.\n\nBorn to a Protestant family in Munich in 1886, the son of historian Felix Stieve and the younger brother of later German diplomat Friedrich and elder brother of later German social worker Hedwig, Stieve graduated from that city's Wilhelmsgymnasium in 1905. After a medical internship at Rechts der Isar Hospital, medical studies at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich and the University of Innsbruck in nearby Austria and a year's service in the military, he became a physician in 1912. He worked in anatomical research for a year before the First World War began in 1914.\n\nStieve returned to the Army, where he both tended to patients at the front and taught at the military medical school in Munich. His service was recognized with several awards. After the war he habilitated, writing a paper on the development of the jackdaw's ovary. He took a chair as a lecturer and researcher in anatomy and anthropology at the University of Leipzig. There he was known for giving his lectures in a black academic robe.\n\nLike many German war veterans, Stieve was dissatisfied with the Weimar Republic and its attempt at a democratic government. He was also a German nationalist, supporting a drive to replace words of non-German origin in the German language, such as \"April\" and \"Mai\" for those months, with words of German origin. These political beliefs led him into many right-wing political and paramilitary organizations of the time, forerunners of the Nazi Party.\n\nHe joined the German National People's Party (DNVP) shortly after taking his position at Leipzig, and later the local Freikorps. He also joined the Orgesch, a paramilitary organization that was ordered disbanded by the Allies in 1921 as a violation of the provisions of Treaty of Versailles that limited German rearmament. Later that year Stieve supported the Kapp Putsch, a failed military coup that briefly forced the republic's civilian government to flee Berlin.\n\nShortly afterwards, he received his doctorate and was appointed a professor of anatomy at Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg. He was also made director of the university's anatomical institute, making Stieve, then 35, the youngest doctor ever to chair a medical department at a German university.\n\nThat same year, he joined another paramilitary organization, the Stahlhelm, which primarily served as the DNVP's armed wing, ostensibly providing security at its meetings. For the next five years his academic responsibilities included chairing the German University Committee for Physical Education. Over that time, the militarist elements of the German body politic with which Stieve was involved became stronger, and more openly antidemocratic.\n\nIn 1933, as the Nazi government consolidated its power, he was elected rector of the university council. The university was for a time renamed, either at Stieve's initiative or due to a conflict with the university chapter of the National Socialist German Students' League. Like many German academics, Stieve did not protest when the Nazis dismissed Jews from the faculty. However, despite welcoming Adolf Hitler's rule as a restoration of national pride, he did not join the Nazi party, one of the few German medical school administrators who did not do so. Stieve also was a nationalist in the language theme as he supported an intention of replacing English-source words like April and Mai with Germanic equivalents. He did become a member of a party organization passively, when the remaining Stahlhelm were merged into the SA reserve in 1934.\n\nBuilding on his doctoral dissertation, Stieve had continued with his research on ovaries and the female reproductive system. He was particularly interested in how stress affected fertility. In one experiment he put a caged fox near hens to see if they would lay eggs; in another he induced similar stress in female newts.\n\nUltimately he wanted to study human organs. He was able to get some donated uteruses and ovaries from the bodies of accident victims, or from surgeons who'd removed them. However, one of the best historical sources of organs for research, the bodies of executed criminals, had not been available during the early years of his research as the Weimar government made very minimal use of the death penalty, and did not execute any women. In a 1931 letter Stieve complained that it was difficult to get a set of ovaries from a healthy woman.\n\nBy 1934, the Nazis were arresting many real and perceived opponents. All were imprisoned; enough were executed that there was no longer a shortage of bodies for researchers to use. \"The execution chambers of jails throughout the Third Reich were virtual slaughterhouses, and the remains were delivered to every university institute of anatomy in Germany (and probably Austria),\" writes University of Toronto medical historian William Seidelman.\n\nStieve, who had accepted a professorship at what is now Humboldt University of Berlin as well as the directorship of its anatomical institute, reached an agreement with administrators at Plötzensee Prison outside the city to accept all bodies of those shot, hanged or beheaded, many of them political prisoners. Others were \"Polish and Russian slave laborers executed for such acts as socializing with German women,\" according to Seidelman. Over the entire Nazi era that came to around 3,000 victims, many more bodies than Stieve needed for research purposes. It is alleged that during his research he claimed the corpses of 182 victims of the Nazi regime, 174 of whom were women at the age rank from 18 to 68, two thirds of victims were of German origin. Approximately from 12,000 to 16,000 of civilians were executed during the Nazi regime from 1933 to 1945 in Germany, they were sentenced to death for minor faults.\n\nFor the female corpses he was particularly interested in, Stieve made use of the prison's detailed recordkeeping. He got histories that included information about how the women had reacted to their death sentences, how well they had adjusted to prison life, and the timing of their menstrual cycles. Based on this information he wrote 230 papers on the effect of stress on the female reproductive system. Women facing execution ovulated less predictably, he found, and sometimes experienced what he called \"shock bleedings\". One paper argued that the Knaus–Ogino rhythm method of contraception was ineffective due to the variations of the cycle. Despite Stieve's errors in understanding the physiology, his conclusion is still accepted as correct.\n\nSince he took care of all the prison's bodies, he had some influence with officials there. In 1942 they changed schedules so that executions took place at night; Stieve was able to persuade them to return to mornings so that he could process the bodies and tissue the same day. Claims that his influence went so far as to choosing the women's execution dates based on their cycles have been debunked, and other reports that he allowed SS officers to rape some prisoners in order to study sperm migration have not been substantiated and appear dubious (none of Stieve's papers mention sperm as a subject of inquiry); although Seidelman, who first reported this, insists it occurred. Nor, contrary to another report, did Stieve make soap from the remains of the bodies after they had been dissected.\n\nAmong those who went to his lab tables following their death were some of the more notable members of the limited German resistance of the Nazi era. The bodies of Harro Schulze-Boysen and his wife Libertas, along with Arvid Harnack and Liane Berkowitz, all members of the Red Orchestra, which tried to thwart Germany's invasion of the U.S.S.R. in 1941, were taken there after their executions near the end of 1942. The next year the body of Elfriede Scholz, sister of novelist Erich Maria Remarque, was also released to Stieve after her execution for \"undermining morale\" after saying that the war was lost. Stieve’s list of his research files was obtained 70 years later and as of 2018 these documents are held in \"Memorial Site for the German Resistance\" in Berlin.\n\nHarnack's Wisconsin-born wife Mildred originally seemed to escape this fate when she received a six-year sentence for her espionage activities. It was overturned on Hitler's direct order, to be replaced with beheading, making her the only American woman Hitler personally ordered executed. Another one of Stieve's students carried her remains home in a shopping bag and had them buried in Zehlendorf Cemetery, making her the only member of the Red Orchestra whose burial site is known.\n\nWhen the bodies of Harnack and the Schulze-Boysens were in the examining room, one of Libertas' friends, Charlotte Pommer, who had gone into medical studies, recognized them and quit the program on the spot, since she knew that Libertas wanted to be buried somewhere quiet and tranquil. Later Pommer became a dissident herself, hiding a family member of one those involved in the 1944 assassination attempt on Hitler and eventually being jailed herself near the end of the war. She is the only one of Stieve's students or assistants known to have left the program for moral reasons. Stieve himself claimed to have refused the bodies of some of the assassination plotters—the only time he allegedly did so—but reportedly had no problem dissecting the body of Walter Arndt, a longtime friend who was executed in 1944. Supposedly he kept Arndt's heart.\n\nWhen the war ended, both the occupying powers and the families of the deceased began trying to learn what had happened to the bodies of those executed. In many cases it was impossible, as documentation was unavailable and what bodies and samples remained were rarely identifiable. The identities of those Stieve did his research on only became known almost 70 years after the war when a list he had compiled in 1946 for a Protestant minister trying to help some of the relatives of Plötzensee inmates find their remains. They were published in a medical journal by another researcher, Sabine Hildebrandt.\n\nLike many German doctors who had been in some way complicit with the Nazi regime's crimes against humanity, Stieve was never held accountable. After the Doctors' Trial at Nuremberg in 1946 led to convictions of 14 physicians who had conducted experiments on unwilling living subjects in concentration camps, the country's medical profession looked within itself to see who else among its members had also committed war crimes. In 1948 it was announced that only several hundred of the country's thousands of physicians had done so, a number that excluded Stieve and many of his fellow anatomists who did their work at universities rather than camps. The profession was worried about the possible loss of teaching physicians to Germany if all who had accepted bodies of the executed for research were imprisoned or otherwise disqualified from practicing or teaching.\n\nHe did defend his work on one occasion. \"[An anatomist] only tries to retrieve results from those incidents that belong to the saddest experiences known in the history of mankind,\" he said. \"In no way do I need to be ashamed of the fact that I was able to reveal new data from the bodies of the executed, facts that were unknown before and are now recognized by the whole world.\" He denied, however, that the executed victims he had done his research on were political prisoners. After his death the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities acknowledged the criticism of Stieve's work in the obituary it published in its yearbook. It felt compelled to put to rest \"spiteful false accusations\" by pointing out that Stieve had never set foot in a concentration camp, nor had he made any request to the prison administration that \"this or that should happen\" before the execution. The bodies he dissected, it claimed, were either victims of accidents or common criminals lawfully sentenced to death. He never stopped to manage his university’s Institute of Anatomy and only his death broke his work in 1952. Despite of their being involved in different war crimes half of Germany’s doctors who were the members of the Nazi Party continued practicing after the war.\n\nFor his work, he was elected to the German Academy of Sciences at Berlin and the German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences also extended membership to him. The hospital erected a bust of Stieve and named a lecture hall after him. He died from a stroke in 1952 while serving as the institute's director. He had wanted to leave his own body to science, but after his wife objected he was buried.\n\nStieve's work continues to be both scientifically important and controversial, as its full circumstances become known. On his centennial in 1986, he was praised as \"a great anatomist who revolutionised the basis of gynaecology through his clinical-anatomical research.\" In a 2009 review, German medical historians Andreas Winkelmann and Udo Schagen conclude that \"Stieve was neither a murderer nor a fervent Nazi. Nevertheless, his research results were flawed by their ethical and political context.\"\n\nStieve's research, although not in a form directly attributed to him, was the basis of a controversy over rape and pregnancy during the 2012 U.S. Senate elections. In Missouri, Rep. Todd Akin, the Republican candidate, justified his opposition to allowing women impregnated during rapes to have abortions, asserted that in cases of \"legitimate rape\" the stress would make conception unlikely. The basis for the claim was a 1972 book by antiabortion activist Fred Mecklenburg, which cited a purported Nazi experiment in which women put under traumatic stress did not ovulate. Hildebrandt recognized this as apparently an imperfect understanding of Stieve's findings.\n\n"}
{"id": "21600912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21600912", "title": "Infantile speech", "text": "Infantile speech\n\nInfantile speech, pedolalia, baby talk, infantile perseveration, or infantilism is a speech disorder, persistence of early speech development stage beyond the age when it is normally expected. It is characterized by the omission of some sounds and the substitution of standard speech sounds observed in children in early developmental stages.\n\n"}
{"id": "58508563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58508563", "title": "Levonorgestrel cyclopropylcarboxylate", "text": "Levonorgestrel cyclopropylcarboxylate\n\nLevonorgestrel cyclopropylcarboxylate (developmental code name HRP-003), or levonorgestrel 17β-cyclopropylcarboxylate, is a progestin and a progestogen ester which was studied for potential use as an injectable hormonal contraceptive but was never marketed. It was developed by the World Health Organization's Special Programme on Human Reproduction in the 1980s. Analogues of levonorgestrel cyclopropylcarboxylate include levonorgestrel cyclobutylcarboxylate (HRP-001) and levonorgestrel butanoate (HRP-002).\n\n"}
{"id": "8430609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8430609", "title": "Localized disease", "text": "Localized disease\n\nA localized disease is an infectious or neoplastic process that originates in and is confined to one organ system or general area in the body, such as a sprained ankle, a boil on the hand, an abscess of finger.\n\nA localized cancer that has not extended beyond the margins of the organ involved can also be described as localized disease, while cancers that extend into other tissues are described as invasive. Tumors that are non-hematologic in origin but extend into the bloodstream or lymphatic system are known as metastatic.\n\nLocalized diseases are contrasted with disseminated diseases and systemic diseases. \n\nSome diseases are capable of changing from local to disseminated diseases. Pneumonia, for example, is generally confined to one or both lungs but can become disseminated through sepsis, in which the microbe responsible for the pneumonia \"seeds\" the bloodstream or lymphatic system and is transported to distant sites in the body. When that occurs, the process is no longer described as a localized disease, but rather as a disseminated disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "15067338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15067338", "title": "Louis Antoine", "text": "Louis Antoine\n\nLouis Antoine (23 November 1888 – 8 February 1971) was a French mathematician who discovered Antoine's necklace, which J. W. Alexander used to construct Antoine's horned sphere. He lost his eyesight in the first World War, at the age of 29.\nLouis Antoine was born in Mirecourt. He studied at the lycee in Nancy. His father was a director of a manufacturer of matchsticks. After this, he studied at the Collège de Compiègne. He was awarded the bacculareat in Latin and science in 1905 and the bacculareat in mathematics in 1906. He then attended École Normale Supérieure. Once he graduated, he became a mathematics teacher the Lycée de Dijon in Saint-Cyr. He married his wife, Marguerite Rouselle in 1918. After the declaration of World War I, Antoine served as a reserve lieutenant in the 72nd Infantry Regiment of Amiens, and later a commander on the machine gun of the 151st Infantry Regiment. In 1917, he lost his sight as a result of bullets hitting his eyes. After the loss of his vision, Henri Lebesgue suggested that Antoine study two- and three-dimensional topology as it could be studied without the use of his sight.\n\nIn 1919, Antione began his doctorate in mathematics at the University of Strasbourg. Antione was assisted by his friends during his studies, who produced braille copies of mathematical papers. Antione developed a system of braille mathematical notation, with the assistance of a student at Ecole Normale Superieure. Antione discovered Antione’s necklace in 1921. He submitted his thesis in 1921. In 1922, Antione became an assistant lecturer at the Faculty of Sciences in Rennes. He subsequently became a professor of Pure Mathematics at Rennes in 1925.\n\nAntione began to experience heart disease in 1957. He subsequently retired from his professorship. He was elected to the Académie des Sciences in 1961. He died in 1971 after fracturing his neck.\n"}
{"id": "10558366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10558366", "title": "MDVIP", "text": "MDVIP\n\nMDVIP is an American company, headquartered in Boca Raton, Florida, that operates a network of physicians. The company's physicians practice preventive medicine and personalized primary-care medicine.\n\nThe national network consists of 900 physicians serving over 280,000 patients in 45 states and the District of Columbia. Each physician cares for up to 600 patients as opposed to the average 2,500-3,500 patients in a traditional primary-care practice. MDVIP patients receive a comprehensive physical examination and follow-up wellness plan as well as electronic medical records and a personalized patient portal with focus on diet, exercise, doctor communication and more. The company states that additional patient benefits include acute-care visits, same or next-day availability, on-time appointments, 24/7 physician availability, and enhanced coordination of specialty care.\n\nFounded in Boca Raton in 2000, in June 2014, growth-equity investor Summit Partners acquired the company from Procter & Gamble Company. In November 2017, Leonard Green & Partners acquired majority ownership. \n\nTo supplement insurance reimbursements, MDVIP physicians charge patients an annual fee between $1,650 and $2,200 per year. In addition to this annual fee, patients are responsible for applicable co-pays and co-insurance, and maintain primary-care insurance coverage including Medicare. In contrast to the direct-care model, this revenue format, often referenced as concierge medicine, runs the risk of audit or penalty as Medicare and other private-insurance carriers cover a comprehensive wellness exam currently listed as part of the MDVIP package.\n\nMDVIP physicians are not directly employed by the company, instead they pay a royalty or franchise fee of $500 per patient per year for services such as patient conversion, marketing, branding and other support.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24427905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24427905", "title": "Motorized shopping cart", "text": "Motorized shopping cart\n\nA motorized shopping cart (also known as electric shopping cart) is a shopping cart equipped with an electric motor and navigational controls. It includes a seat (often equipped with an occupant seat switch activating movement of the motorized shopping cart from the occupant's weight) thereby also making it a motorized wheelchair, and it has a rechargeable battery that can be charged by plugging in the device when not in use in order to maximize usage. Motorized shopping carts are provided by supermarkets and other large retail stores for those with permanent or temporary physical disabilities who may have difficulty walking through a large store or pushing a regular cart.\n\nMany of the customers who use motorized shopping carts are not full-time wheelchair users, but find shopping easier using the device since a regular cart may be harder to push, especially when filled with merchandise, and walking through a large store may be cumbersome for one who is able to walk only short distances on their own power.\n\nWhile shopping cart theft has also been a costly matter for retailers, the higher cost of the motorized carts makes their theft a greater issue to the store, and thereby leads stores to establish policies prohibiting the carts from exiting stores, even though a disabled person may have the need to bring the cart all the way to their vehicle\n\nIn May 2009, a Florida man was charged with felony theft of a motorized cart due to its $2,500 value. He was caught not far from the store, riding the cart. Had a non-electric cart been stolen, the theft would have been a misdemeanor.\n\nIn the same month, two South Carolina men were charged with the theft of a cart, and likewise faced felony charges due to it being valued at over $2,000.\n\nSuch thefts are rare and difficult to sustain as the carts are obviously grocery store carts, which are designed with a maximum speed of two miles per hour. Most powered operated mobility devices, such as powerchairs and scooters, have an average maximum speed of 5 miles per hour, though many are faster. The baskets and seats are of commercial strength and the wheels are much smaller than those of consumer mobility devices.\n\nThere has been concern over the carts leading to injuries when used by those who do not know how to control them well. The injuries can occur to the user if they crash into an object with the cart, or to a person the user crashes into. To reduce the risk of injury, most carts have a back-up warning system similar to those found on trucks. They also are programmed with a low maximum speed of up to two miles per hour.\n\nIn Louisiana in 2011, a lawsuit was filed by a woman who claimed injury while using a motorized shopping cart. The case was dismissed as the defendant filed a motion asserting that the accident and injuries were caused by the woman's own actions and she could not meet her burden of proof. The store manager immediately tested the cart after the claimed injury and further testing was done by the store mechanic and an engineer.\n\nWhile these carts are generally reserved for the disabled, most stores will take one's word for being a disabled person and will not challenge one's need for a cart. But there have been cases reported in which a person with a non-visible disability has requested the use of a motorized cart, but has been denied the use by store employees who did not believe the customer had a disability.\n\nThere has also been concern over minors using the carts. In January 2009, a Wal-Mart store in Tennessee did not allow an 11-year-old girl with a broken leg to use a motorized cart, despite the fact that she had been allowed by other stores to use them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "522037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522037", "title": "Mr. Yuk", "text": "Mr. Yuk\n\nMr. Yuk is a trademarked graphic image, created by UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, and widely employed in the United States in labeling of substances that are poisonous if ingested.\n\nTo help children learn to avoid ingesting poisons, Mr. Yuk was conceived by Richard Moriarty, a pediatrician and clinical professor of pediatrics at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine who founded the Pittsburgh Poison Center and the National Poison Center Network. Moriarty felt that the traditional skull and crossbones representing poison was no longer appropriate for children; Congressman Bill Coyne later said that by the 1970s the symbol was \"associated with swashbuckling pirates and buccaneers rather than with harmful substances.\" The Jolly Roger flag was used on breakfast cereals and chewing gum, and it was the insignia for Moriarty's local major league baseball team, the Pittsburgh Pirates. \n\nThe design and color were chosen when Moriarty used focus groups of young children to determine which combination was the most unappealing. Possible expressions were \"mad\" (crossed eyes and intense expression), \"dead\" (a sunken mouth and Xs for eyes), and \"sick\" (a sour expression with the tongue sticking out). Children were asked to rank the faces according to which they liked the best, along with the skull and crossbones, and the \"sick\" face was least popular. The shade of fluorescent green that was chosen was christened \"Yucky!\" by a young child and gave the design its name.\n\nMr. Yuk was first introduced in Pittsburgh in 1971, and over the next few years, Mr. Yuk stickers gained nationwide The stickers usually contain phone numbers of poison control centers that may give guidance if poisoning has occurred or is suspected. Usually, stickers may carry a national toll-free number (\"1-800-222-1222\" in the United States). In some areas, local poison control centers and children's hospitals issue stickers with local numbers, under license. Such an example is in Pittsburgh, where the telephone number for the Poison Control Center is 681-6669.\n\nA public service announcement was also produced in the 1970s featuring a theme song.\n\nAt least two peer-reviewed medical studies (Fergusson 1982, Vernberg 1984) have suggested that Mr. Yuk stickers do not effectively keep children away from potential poisons and may even attract children. Specifically, Vernberg and colleagues note concerns for using the stickers to protect young children. Fergusson and colleagues state that \"the method may be effective with older children or as an adjunct to an integrated poisoning prevention campaign\".\n\nTo evaluate the effectiveness of six projected symbols (skull-and-crossbones, red stop sign, and four others), tests were conducted at day care centers. Children in the program rated Mr. Yuk as the most unappealing image. By contrast, children rated the skull-and-crossbones to be the most appealing.\n\nThe Mr. Ouch symbol, developed by the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) to warn children about electrical hazards, has a similar design and strategy.\n\nMr. Yuk and his graphic rendering are registered trademarks and service marks of the UPMC Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, and the rendering itself is additionally protected by copyright. This means that the name and graphic image cannot be used without a license from the owner—unlike the skull and crossbones symbol, which is in the public domain.\n\nThe Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC gives out free sheets of Mr. Yuk stickers if contacted by mail.\n\nMr. Yuk materials can also be ordered online from the University of Pittsburgh.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4740322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740322", "title": "National Public Toilet Map", "text": "National Public Toilet Map\n\nThe National Public Toilet Map is part of the Australian government's National Continence Management Strategy (NCMS). The map allows more Australians with urinary and fecal incontinence problems to live and participate in their communities with dignity and confidence, by making it easier for them to find information about the location of public toilets .\n\nThe map was launched in September 2001. The map is internet based and can be accessed via a web browser or a free iOS app. It identifies more than 19,000 public and private toilets across Australia, including those in service stations and fast food outlets. The digital map also provides information on accessibility (access for disabled people) and opening hours for most of the toilets identified.\n\nMore than 3.8 million Australians are estimated to suffer continence issues, including families with young children. This represents 18% of the Australian population.\n\nThe map allows journey planning, including finding toilets near points of interest. Regular users of the web site can register and create their own customised web page, \"My Toilet Map\", saving details of trips and localities for future reference. Registered users can also download toilets as waypoints to a Global Positioning System (GPS) device.\n\nFor journey planning a detailed map and written instructions are provided. Clickable icons go to details of the toilets including latitude and longitude to four decimal places, who provides the toilet and when details were last checked as well as all facilities, for example wheelchair access, opening hours, or whether the toilet has a Master Locksmiths' Association Key (MLAK). The MLAK is a master key that fits into specially designed locks allowing 24-hour-a-day access to public toilets. Eligible people, for example those with a disability, can purchase a key that opens all accessible toilets displaying the MLAK symbol. The symbols used comply with ISO 7001.\n\nA similar project is the Great British Public Toilet Map.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21682172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21682172", "title": "New Mobility", "text": "New Mobility\n\nNew Mobility, launched in 1989, is a United States-based magazine for active wheelchair users. This monthly publication covers health, disability rights, adaptive technology and lifestyle topics such as recreation, travel, the arts, relationships, sexuality, parenting, employment and home modification. It also profiles successful wheelchair users, including John Hockenberry, Christopher Voelker, Brooke Ellison, Chantal Petitclerc and the late Christopher Reeve. \"New Mobility\", currently edited by Tim Gilmer, received an Utne Independent Press Award for Lifestyle Coverage in 2006.\n\n\"New Mobility\" was founded in Boulder, Colorado, by Sam Maddox to provide information about life after spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, post-polio sequelae and other disabling conditions. Originally titled, \"Spinal Network Extra\", the then-quarterly magazine was a spin-off of the 1987 book \"Spinal Network: The Total Resource for the Wheelchair Community.\"\n\nMaddox edited \"New Mobility\" until 1991, when Barry Corbet, a paraplegic from a spinal cord injury, took the helm. The title was changed to \"New Mobility\" for the Summer 1992 issue. In 1993, the magazine temporarily ceased publication. Miramar Publishing (later Miramar Communications) bought the title and relaunched it in 1994. It became bimonthly in 1995 and monthly in 1996. In 1998, No Limits Communications acquired the magazine. In 2000, Corbet retired, and Gilmer, also paraplegic, began his tenure. In 2010, United Spinal Association bought \"New Mobility\" and continues to publish it monthly.\n\nEarly disability titles tended to reflect what is known as the medical model of disability, which emphasized the need for cures and referred to people with disabilities as \"patients.\" \"New Mobility\" defined its social model of disability point of view with a lifestyle-oriented approach, inclusion mentality and people-first language. It was also one of the first periodicals to seriously address sexuality and disability, and its provocative role in this area has been recognized by the \"Los Angeles Times,\" and subsequently the Associated Press. The magazine sums up its place in the field of disability journalism with the tagline \"Life Beyond Wheels.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56435", "title": "Obesity", "text": "Obesity\n\nObesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have a negative effect on health. People are generally considered obese when their body mass index (BMI), a measurement obtained by dividing a person's weight by the square of the person's height, is over , with the range defined as overweight. Some East Asian countries use lower values. Obesity increases the likelihood of various diseases and conditions, particularly cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, obstructive sleep apnea, certain types of cancer, osteoarthritis and depression.\nObesity is most commonly caused by a combination of excessive food intake, lack of physical activity, and genetic susceptibility. A few cases are caused primarily by genes, endocrine disorders, medications, or mental disorder. The view that obese people eat little yet gain weight due to a slow metabolism is not medically supported. On average, obese people have a greater energy expenditure than their normal counterparts due to the energy required to maintain an increased body mass.\nObesity is mostly preventable through a combination of social changes and personal choices. Changes to diet and exercising are the main treatments. Diet quality can be improved by reducing the consumption of energy-dense foods, such as those high in fat or sugars, and by increasing the intake of dietary fiber. Medications can be used, along with a suitable diet, to reduce appetite or decrease fat absorption. If diet, exercise, and medication are not effective, a gastric balloon or surgery may be performed to reduce stomach volume or length of the intestines, leading to feeling full earlier or a reduced ability to absorb nutrients from food.\nObesity is a leading preventable cause of death worldwide, with increasing rates in adults and children. In 2015, 600 million adults (12%) and 100 million children were obese in 195 countries. Obesity is more common in women than men. Authorities view it as one of the most serious public health problems of the 21st century. Obesity is stigmatized in much of the modern world (particularly in the Western world), though it was seen as a symbol of wealth and fertility at other times in history and still is in some parts of the world. In 2013, the American Medical Association classified obesity as a disease.\n\nObesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have an adverse effect on health. It is defined by body mass index (BMI) and further evaluated in terms of fat distribution via the waist–hip ratio and total cardiovascular risk factors. BMI is closely related to both percentage body fat and total body fat.\nIn children, a healthy weight varies with age and sex. Obesity in children and adolescents is defined not as an absolute number but in relation to a historical normal group, such that obesity is a BMI greater than the 95th percentile. The reference data on which these percentiles were based date from 1963 to 1994, and thus have not been affected by the recent increases in weight. BMI is defined as the subject's weight divided by the square of their height and is calculated as follows.\n\nBMI is usually expressed in kilograms of weight per metre squared of height. To convert from pounds per inch squared multiply by .\n\nThe most commonly used definitions, established by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1997 and published in 2000, provide the values listed in the table.\n\nSome modifications to the WHO definitions have been made by particular organizations. The surgical literature breaks down class II and III obesity into further categories whose exact values are still disputed.\n\nAs Asian populations develop negative health consequences at a lower BMI than Caucasians, some nations have redefined obesity; Japan have defined obesity as any BMI greater than 25 kg/m while China uses a BMI of greater than 28 kg/m.\n\nExcessive body weight is associated with various diseases and conditions, particularly cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus type 2, obstructive sleep apnea, certain types of cancer, osteoarthritis, and asthma. As a result, obesity has been found to reduce life expectancy.\n\nObesity is one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide. A number of reviews have found that mortality risk is lowest at a BMI of 20–25 kg/m in non-smokers and at 24–27 kg/m in current smokers, with risk increasing along with changes in either direction. This appears to apply in at least four continents. In contrast, a 2013 review found that grade 1 obesity (BMI 30–35) was not associated with higher mortality than normal weight, and that overweight (BMI 25–30) was associated with \"lower\" mortality than was normal weight (BMI 18.5–25). Other evidence suggests that the association of BMI and waist circumference with mortality is U- or J-shaped, while the association between waist-to-hip ratio and waist-to-height ratio with mortality is more positive. In Asians the risk of negative health effects begins to increase between 22–25 kg/m. A BMI above 32 kg/m has been associated with a doubled mortality rate among women over a 16-year period. In the United States, obesity is estimated to cause 111,909 to 365,000 deaths per year, while 1 million (7.7%) of deaths in Europe are attributed to excess weight. On average, obesity reduces life expectancy by six to seven years, a BMI of 30–35 kg/m reduces life expectancy by two to four years, while severe obesity (BMI > 40 kg/m) reduces life expectancy by ten years.\n\nObesity increases the risk of many physical and mental conditions. These comorbidities are most commonly shown in metabolic syndrome, a combination of medical disorders which includes: diabetes mellitus type 2, high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, and high triglyceride levels.\n\nComplications are either directly caused by obesity or indirectly related through mechanisms sharing a common cause such as a poor diet or a sedentary lifestyle. The strength of the link between obesity and specific conditions varies. One of the strongest is the link with type 2 diabetes. Excess body fat underlies 64% of cases of diabetes in men and 77% of cases in women.\n\nHealth consequences fall into two broad categories: those attributable to the effects of increased fat mass (such as osteoarthritis, obstructive sleep apnea, social stigmatization) and those due to the increased number of fat cells (diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease). Increases in body fat alter the body's response to insulin, potentially leading to insulin resistance. Increased fat also creates a proinflammatory state, and a prothrombotic state.\n\nAlthough the negative health consequences of obesity in the general population are well supported by the available evidence, health outcomes in certain subgroups seem to be improved at an increased BMI, a phenomenon known as the obesity survival paradox. The paradox was first described in 1999 in overweight and obese people undergoing hemodialysis, and has subsequently been found in those with heart failure and peripheral artery disease (PAD).\n\nIn people with heart failure, those with a BMI between 30.0 and 34.9 had lower mortality than those with a normal weight. This has been attributed to the fact that people often lose weight as they become progressively more ill. Similar findings have been made in other types of heart disease. People with class I obesity and heart disease do not have greater rates of further heart problems than people of normal weight who also have heart disease. In people with greater degrees of obesity, however, the risk of further cardiovascular events is increased. Even after cardiac bypass surgery, no increase in mortality is seen in the overweight and obese. One study found that the improved survival could be explained by the more aggressive treatment obese people receive after a cardiac event. Another found that if one takes into account chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in those with PAD, the benefit of obesity no longer exists.\n\nAt an individual level, a combination of excessive food energy intake and a lack of physical activity is thought to explain most cases of obesity. A limited number of cases are due primarily to genetics, medical reasons, or psychiatric illness. In contrast, increasing rates of obesity at a societal level are felt to be due to an easily accessible and palatable diet, increased reliance on cars, and mechanized manufacturing.\n\nA 2006 review identified ten other possible contributors to the recent increase of obesity: (1) insufficient sleep, (2) endocrine disruptors (environmental pollutants that interfere with lipid metabolism), (3) decreased variability in ambient temperature, (4) decreased rates of smoking, because smoking suppresses appetite, (5) increased use of medications that can cause weight gain (e.g., atypical antipsychotics), (6) proportional increases in ethnic and age groups that tend to be heavier, (7) pregnancy at a later age (which may cause susceptibility to obesity in children), (8) epigenetic risk factors passed on generationally, (9) natural selection for higher BMI, and (10) assortative mating leading to increased concentration of obesity risk factors (this would increase the number of obese people by increasing population variance in weight). While there is evidence supporting the influence of these mechanisms on the increased prevalence of obesity, the evidence is still inconclusive, and the authors state that these are probably less influential than the ones discussed in the previous paragraph.\n\nA 2016 review supported excess food as the primary factor. Dietary energy supply per capita varies markedly between different regions and countries. It has also changed significantly over time. From the early 1970s to the late 1990s the average food energy available per person per day (the amount of food bought) increased in all parts of the world except Eastern Europe. The United States had the highest availability with per person in 1996. This increased further in 2003 to . During the late 1990s Europeans had per person, in the developing areas of Asia there were per person, and in sub-Saharan Africa people had per person. Total food energy consumption has been found to be related to obesity.\n\nThe widespread availability of nutritional guidelines has done little to address the problems of overeating and poor dietary choice. From 1971 to 2000, obesity rates in the United States increased from 14.5% to 30.9%. During the same period, an increase occurred in the average amount of food energy consumed. For women, the average increase was per day ( in 1971 and in 2004), while for men the average increase was per day ( in 1971 and in 2004). Most of this extra food energy came from an increase in carbohydrate consumption rather than fat consumption. The primary sources of these extra carbohydrates are sweetened beverages, which now account for almost 25 percent of daily food energy in young adults in America, and potato chips. Consumption of sweetened drinks such as soft drinks, fruit drinks, iced tea, and energy and vitamin water drinks is believed to be contributing to the rising rates of obesity and to an increased risk of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes. Vitamin D deficiency is related to diseases associated with obesity.\n\nAs societies become increasingly reliant on energy-dense, big-portions, and fast-food meals, the association between fast-food consumption and obesity becomes more concerning. In the United States consumption of fast-food meals tripled and food energy intake from these meals quadrupled between 1977 and 1995.\n\nAgricultural policy and techniques in the United States and Europe have led to lower food prices. In the United States, subsidization of corn, soy, wheat, and rice through the U.S. farm bill has made the main sources of processed food cheap compared to fruits and vegetables. Calorie count laws and nutrition facts labels attempt to steer people toward making healthier food choices, including awareness of how much food energy is being consumed.\n\nObese people consistently under-report their food consumption as compared to people of normal weight. This is supported both by tests of people carried out in a calorimeter room and by direct observation.\n\nA sedentary lifestyle plays a significant role in obesity. Worldwide there has been a large shift towards less physically demanding work, and currently at least 30% of the world's population gets insufficient exercise. This is primarily due to increasing use of mechanized transportation and a greater prevalence of labor-saving technology in the home. In children, there appear to be declines in levels of physical activity due to less walking and physical education. World trends in active leisure time physical activity are less clear. The World Health Organization indicates people worldwide are taking up less active recreational pursuits, while a study from Finland found an increase and a study from the United States found leisure-time physical activity has not changed significantly. A 2011 review of physical activity in children found that it may not be a significant contributor.\n\nIn both children and adults, there is an association between television viewing time and the risk of obesity. A review found 63 of 73 studies (86%) showed an increased rate of childhood obesity with increased media exposure, with rates increasing proportionally to time spent watching television.\n\nLike many other medical conditions, obesity is the result of an interplay between genetic and environmental factors. Polymorphisms in various genes controlling appetite and metabolism predispose to obesity when sufficient food energy is present. As of 2006, more than 41 of these sites on the human genome have been linked to the development of obesity when a favorable environment is present. People with two copies of the FTO gene (fat mass and obesity associated gene) have been found on average to weigh 3–4 kg more and have a 1.67-fold greater risk of obesity compared with those without the risk allele. The differences in BMI between people that are due to genetics varies depending on the population examined from 6% to 85%.\n\nObesity is a major feature in several syndromes, such as Prader–Willi syndrome, Bardet–Biedl syndrome, Cohen syndrome, and MOMO syndrome. (The term \"non-syndromic obesity\" is sometimes used to exclude these conditions.) In people with early-onset severe obesity (defined by an onset before 10 years of age and body mass index over three standard deviations above normal), 7% harbor a single point DNA mutation.\n\nStudies that have focused on inheritance patterns rather than on specific genes have found that 80% of the offspring of two obese parents were also obese, in contrast to less than 10% of the offspring of two parents who were of normal weight. Different people exposed to the same environment have different risks of obesity due to their underlying genetics.\n\nThe thrifty gene hypothesis postulates that, due to dietary scarcity during human evolution, people are prone to obesity. Their ability to take advantage of rare periods of abundance by storing energy as fat would be advantageous during times of varying food availability, and individuals with greater adipose reserves would be more likely to survive famine. This tendency to store fat, however, would be maladaptive in societies with stable food supplies. This theory has received various criticisms, and other evolutionarily-based theories such as the drifty gene hypothesis and the thrifty phenotype hypothesis have also been proposed.\n\nCertain physical and mental illnesses and the pharmaceutical substances used to treat them can increase risk of obesity. Medical illnesses that increase obesity risk include several rare genetic syndromes (listed above) as well as some congenital or acquired conditions: hypothyroidism, Cushing's syndrome, growth hormone deficiency, and the eating disorders: binge eating disorder and night eating syndrome. However, obesity is not regarded as a psychiatric disorder, and therefore is not listed in the DSM-IVR as a psychiatric illness. The risk of overweight and obesity is higher in patients with psychiatric disorders than in persons without psychiatric disorders.\n\nCertain medications may cause weight gain or changes in body composition; these include insulin, sulfonylureas, thiazolidinediones, atypical antipsychotics, antidepressants, steroids, certain anticonvulsants (phenytoin and valproate), pizotifen, and some forms of hormonal contraception.\n\nWhile genetic influences are important to understanding obesity, they cannot explain the current dramatic increase seen within specific countries or globally. Though it is accepted that energy consumption in excess of energy expenditure leads to obesity on an individual basis, the cause of the shifts in these two factors on the societal scale is much debated. There are a number of theories as to the cause but most believe it is a combination of various factors.\n\nThe correlation between social class and BMI varies globally. A review in 1989 found that in developed countries women of a high social class were less likely to be obese. No significant differences were seen among men of different social classes. In the developing world, women, men, and children from high social classes had greater rates of obesity. An update of this review carried out in 2007 found the same relationships, but they were weaker. The decrease in strength of correlation was felt to be due to the effects of globalization. Among developed countries, levels of adult obesity, and percentage of teenage children who are overweight, are correlated with income inequality. A similar relationship is seen among US states: more adults, even in higher social classes, are obese in more unequal states.\n\nMany explanations have been put forth for associations between BMI and social class. It is thought that in developed countries, the wealthy are able to afford more nutritious food, they are under greater social pressure to remain slim, and have more opportunities along with greater expectations for physical fitness. In undeveloped countries the ability to afford food, high energy expenditure with physical labor, and cultural values favoring a larger body size are believed to contribute to the observed patterns. Attitudes toward body weight held by people in one's life may also play a role in obesity. A correlation in BMI changes over time has been found among friends, siblings, and spouses. Stress and perceived low social status appear to increase risk of obesity.\n\nSmoking has a significant effect on an individual's weight. Those who quit smoking gain an average of 4.4 kilograms (9.7 lb) for men and 5.0 kilograms (11.0 lb) for women over ten years. However, changing rates of smoking have had little effect on the overall rates of obesity.\n\nIn the United States the number of children a person has is related to their risk of obesity. A woman's risk increases by 7% per child, while a man's risk increases by 4% per child. This could be partly explained by the fact that having dependent children decreases physical activity in Western parents.\n\nIn the developing world urbanization is playing a role in increasing rate of obesity. In China overall rates of obesity are below 5%; however, in some cities rates of obesity are greater than 20%.\n\nMalnutrition in early life is believed to play a role in the rising rates of obesity in the developing world. Endocrine changes that occur during periods of malnutrition may promote the storage of fat once more food energy becomes available.\n\nConsistent with cognitive epidemiological data, numerous studies confirm that obesity is associated with cognitive deficits. Whether obesity causes cognitive deficits, or vice versa is unclear at present.\n\nThe study of the effect of infectious agents on metabolism is still in its early stages. Gut flora has been shown to differ between lean and obese humans. There is an indication that gut flora in obese and lean individuals can affect the metabolic potential. This apparent alteration of the metabolic potential is believed to confer a greater capacity to harvest energy contributing to obesity. Whether these differences are the direct cause or the result of obesity has yet to be determined unequivocally. The use of antibiotics among children has also been associated with obesity later in life.\n\nAn association between viruses and obesity has been found in humans and several different animal species. The amount that these associations may have contributed to the rising rate of obesity is yet to be determined.\n\nA number of reviews have found an association between short duration of sleep and obesity. Whether one causes the other is unclear. Even if shorts sleep does increase weight gain it is unclear if this is to a meaningful degree or increasing sleep would be of benefit.\n\nCertain aspects of personality are associated with being obese. Neuroticism, impulsivity, and sensitivity to reward are more common in people who are obese while conscientiousness and self-control are less common in people who are obese.\n\nThere are many possible pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the development and maintenance of obesity. This field of research had been almost unapproached until the leptin gene was discovered in 1994 by J. M. Friedman's laboratory. While leptin and ghrelin are produced peripherally, they control appetite through their actions on the central nervous system. In particular, they and other appetite-related hormones act on the hypothalamus, a region of the brain central to the regulation of food intake and energy expenditure. There are several circuits within the hypothalamus that contribute to its role in integrating appetite, the melanocortin pathway being the most well understood. The circuit begins with an area of the hypothalamus, the arcuate nucleus, that has outputs to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), the brain's feeding and satiety centers, respectively.\n\nThe arcuate nucleus contains two distinct groups of neurons. The first group coexpresses neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and has stimulatory inputs to the LH and inhibitory inputs to the VMH. The second group coexpresses pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and has stimulatory inputs to the VMH and inhibitory inputs to the LH. Consequently, NPY/AgRP neurons stimulate feeding and inhibit satiety, while POMC/CART neurons stimulate satiety and inhibit feeding. Both groups of arcuate nucleus neurons are regulated in part by leptin. Leptin inhibits the NPY/AgRP group while stimulating the POMC/CART group. Thus a deficiency in leptin signaling, either via leptin deficiency or leptin resistance, leads to overfeeding and may account for some genetic and acquired forms of obesity.\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) predicts that overweight and obesity may soon replace more traditional public health concerns such as undernutrition and infectious diseases as the most significant cause of poor health. Obesity is a public health and policy problem because of its prevalence, costs, and health effects. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for all adults followed by behavioral interventions in those who are obese. Public health efforts seek to understand and correct the environmental factors responsible for the increasing prevalence of obesity in the population. Solutions look at changing the factors that cause excess food energy consumption and inhibit physical activity. Efforts include federally reimbursed meal programs in schools, limiting direct junk food marketing to children, and decreasing access to sugar-sweetened beverages in schools. The World Health Organization recommends the taxing of sugary drinks. When constructing urban environments, efforts have been made to increase access to parks and to develop pedestrian routes.\n\nMany organizations have published reports pertaining to obesity. In 1998, the first US Federal guidelines were published, titled \"Clinical Guidelines on the Identification, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults: The Evidence Report\". In 2006 the Canadian Obesity Network, now known as Obesity Canada published the \"Canadian Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) on the Management and Prevention of Obesity in Adults and Children\". This is a comprehensive evidence-based guideline to address the management and prevention of overweight and obesity in adults and children.\n\nIn 2004, the United Kingdom Royal College of Physicians, the Faculty of Public Health and the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health released the report \"Storing up Problems\", which highlighted the growing problem of obesity in the UK. The same year, the House of Commons Health Select Committee published its \"most comprehensive inquiry [...] ever undertaken\" into the impact of obesity on health and society in the UK and possible approaches to the problem. In 2006, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) issued a guideline on the diagnosis and management of obesity, as well as policy implications for non-healthcare organizations such as local councils. A 2007 report produced by Derek Wanless for the King's Fund warned that unless further action was taken, obesity had the capacity to cripple the National Health Service financially.\n\nComprehensive approaches are being looked at to address the rising rates of obesity. The Obesity Policy Action (OPA) framework divides measure into 'upstream' policies, 'midstream' policies, 'downstream' policies. 'Upstream' policies look at changing society, 'midstream' policies try to alter individuals' behavior to prevent obesity, and 'downstream' policies try to treat currently afflicted people.\n\nThe main treatment for obesity consists of dieting and physical exercise. Diet programs may produce weight loss over the short term, but maintaining this weight loss is frequently difficult and often requires making exercise and a lower food energy diet a permanent part of a person's lifestyle. Intensive behavioral interventions are recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force.\n\nIn the short-term low carbohydrate diets appear better than low fat diets for weight loss. In the long term; however, all types of low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets appear equally beneficial. A 2014 review found that the heart disease and diabetes risks associated with different diets appear to be similar. Promotion of the Mediterranean diets among the obese may lower the risk of heart disease. Decreased intake of sweet drinks is also related to weight-loss. Success rates of long-term weight loss maintenance with lifestyle changes are low, ranging from 2–20%. Dietary and lifestyle changes are effective in limiting excessive weight gain in pregnancy and improve outcomes for both the mother and the child. Intensive behavioral counseling is recommended in those who are both obese and have other risk factors for heart disease.\n\nFive medications have evidence for long-term use orlistat, lorcaserin, liraglutide, phentermine–topiramate, and naltrexone–bupropion. They result in weight loss after one year ranged from 3.0 to 6.7 kg (6.6-14.8 lbs) over placebo. Orlistat, liraglutide, and naltrexone–bupropion are available in both the United States and Europe, whereas lorcaserin and phentermine–topiramate are available only in the United States. European regulatory authorities rejected the latter two drugs in part because of associations of heart valve problems with lorcaserin and more general heart and blood vessel problems with phentermine–topiramate. Orlistat use is associated with high rates of gastrointestinal side effects and concerns have been raised about negative effects on the kidneys. There is no information on how these drugs affect longer-term complications of obesity such as cardiovascular disease or death.\n\nThe most effective treatment for obesity is bariatric surgery. The types of procedures include laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, vertical-sleeve gastrectomy, and biliopancreatic diversion. Surgery for severe obesity is associated with long-term weight loss, improvement in obesity-related conditions, and decreased overall mortality. One study found a weight loss of between 14% and 25% (depending on the type of procedure performed) at 10 years, and a 29% reduction in all cause mortality when compared to standard weight loss measures. Complications occur in about 17% of cases and reoperation is needed in 7% of cases. Due to its cost and risks, researchers are searching for other effective yet less invasive treatments including devices that occupy space in the stomach.\n\nIn earlier historical periods obesity was rare, and achievable only by a small elite, although already recognised as a problem for health. But as prosperity increased in the Early Modern period, it affected increasingly larger groups of the population.\n\nIn 1997 the WHO formally recognized obesity as a global epidemic. As of 2008 the WHO estimates that at least 500 million adults (greater than 10%) are obese, with higher rates among women than men. The percentage of adults affected in the United States as of 2015–2016 is about 39.6% overall (37.9% of males and 41.1% of females).\n\nThe rate of obesity also increases with age at least up to 50 or 60 years old and severe obesity in the United States, Australia, and Canada is increasing faster than the overall rate of obesity. The OECD has projected an increase in obesity rates until at least 2030, especially in the United States, Mexico and England with rates reaching 47%, 39% and 35% respectively.\n\nOnce considered a problem only of high-income countries, obesity rates are rising worldwide and affecting both the developed and developing world. These increases have been felt most dramatically in urban settings. The only remaining region of the world where obesity is not common is sub-Saharan Africa.\n\n\"Obesity\" is from the Latin \"obesitas\", which means \"stout, fat, or plump\". \"Ēsus\" is the past participle of \"edere\" (to eat), with \"ob\" (over) added to it. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" documents its first usage in 1611 by Randle Cotgrave.\n\nAncient Greek medicine recognizes obesity as a medical disorder, and records that the Ancient Egyptians saw it in the same way. Hippocrates wrote that \"Corpulence is not only a disease itself, but the harbinger of others\". The Indian surgeon Sushruta (6th century BCE) related obesity to diabetes and heart disorders. He recommended physical work to help cure it and its side effects. For most of human history mankind struggled with food scarcity. Obesity has thus historically been viewed as a sign of wealth and prosperity. It was common among high officials in Europe in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance as well as in Ancient East Asian civilizations. In the 17th century, English medical author Tobias Venner is credited with being one of the first to refer to the term as a societal disease in a published English language book.\n\nWith the onset of the Industrial Revolution it was realized that the military and economic might of nations were dependent on both the body size and strength of their soldiers and workers. Increasing the average body mass index from what is now considered underweight to what is now the normal range played a significant role in the development of industrialized societies. Height and weight thus both increased through the 19th century in the developed world. During the 20th century, as populations reached their genetic potential for height, weight began increasing much more than height, resulting in obesity. In the 1950s increasing wealth in the developed world decreased child mortality, but as body weight increased heart and kidney disease became more common.\nDuring this time period, insurance companies realized the connection between weight and life expectancy and increased premiums for the obese.\n\nMany cultures throughout history have viewed obesity as the result of a character flaw. The \"obesus\" or fat character in Ancient Greek comedy was a glutton and figure of mockery. During Christian times the food was viewed as a gateway to the sins of sloth and lust. In modern Western culture, excess weight is often regarded as unattractive, and obesity is commonly associated with various negative stereotypes. People of all ages can face social stigmatization, and may be targeted by bullies or shunned by their peers.\n\nPublic perceptions in Western society regarding healthy body weight differ from those regarding the weight that is considered ideal  – and both have changed since the beginning of the 20th century. The weight that is viewed as an ideal has become lower since the 1920s. This is illustrated by the fact that the average height of Miss America pageant winners increased by 2% from 1922 to 1999, while their average weight decreased by 12%. On the other hand, people's views concerning healthy weight have changed in the opposite direction. In Britain, the weight at which people considered themselves to be overweight was significantly higher in 2007 than in 1999. These changes are believed to be due to increasing rates of adiposity leading to increased acceptance of extra body fat as being normal.\n\nObesity is still seen as a sign of wealth and well-being in many parts of Africa. This has become particularly common since the HIV epidemic began.\n\nThe first sculptural representations of the human body 20,000–35,000 years ago depict obese females. Some attribute the Venus figurines to the tendency to emphasize fertility while others feel they represent \"fatness\" in the people of the time. Corpulence is, however, absent in both Greek and Roman art, probably in keeping with their ideals regarding moderation. This continued through much of Christian European history, with only those of low socioeconomic status being depicted as obese.\n\nDuring the Renaissance some of the upper class began flaunting their large size, as can be seen in portraits of Henry VIII of England and Alessandro dal Borro. Rubens (1577–1640) regularly depicted full-bodied women in his pictures, from which derives the term Rubenesque. These women, however, still maintained the \"hourglass\" shape with its relationship to fertility. During the 19th century, views on obesity changed in the Western world. After centuries of obesity being synonymous with wealth and social status, slimness began to be seen as the desirable standard.\n\nIn addition to its health impacts, obesity leads to many problems including disadvantages in employment and increased business costs. These effects are felt by all levels of society from individuals, to corporations, to governments.\n\nIn 2005, the medical costs attributable to obesity in the US were an estimated $190.2 billion or 20.6% of all medical expenditures, while the cost of obesity in Canada was estimated at CA$2 billion in 1997 (2.4% of total health costs). The total annual direct cost of overweight and obesity in Australia in 2005 was A$21 billion. Overweight and obese Australians also received A$35.6 billion in government subsidies. The estimate range for annual expenditures on diet products is $40 billion to $100 billion in the US alone.\n\nObesity prevention programs have been found to reduce the cost of treating obesity-related disease. However, the longer people live, the more medical costs they incur. Researchers, therefore, conclude that reducing obesity may improve the public's health, but it is unlikely to reduce overall health spending.\nObesity can lead to social stigmatization and disadvantages in employment. When compared to their normal weight counterparts, obese workers on average have higher rates of absenteeism from work and take more disability leave, thus increasing costs for employers and decreasing productivity. A study examining Duke University employees found that people with a BMI over 40 kg/m filed twice as many workers' compensation claims as those whose BMI was 18.5–24.9 kg/m. They also had more than 12 times as many lost work days. The most common injuries in this group were due to falls and lifting, thus affecting the lower extremities, wrists or hands, and backs. The Alabama State Employees' Insurance Board approved a controversial plan to charge obese workers $25 a month for health insurance that would otherwise be free unless they take steps to lose weight and improve their health. These measures started in January 2010 and apply to those state workers whose BMI exceeds 35 kg/m and who fail to make improvements in their health after one year.\n\nSome research shows that obese people are less likely to be hired for a job and are less likely to be promoted. Obese people are also paid less than their non-obese counterparts for an equivalent job; obese women on average make 6% less and obese men make 3% less.\n\nSpecific industries, such as the airline, healthcare and food industries, have special concerns. Due to rising rates of obesity, airlines face higher fuel costs and pressures to increase seating width. In 2000, the extra weight of obese passengers cost airlines US$275 million. The healthcare industry has had to invest in special facilities for handling severely obese patients, including special lifting equipment and bariatric ambulances. Costs for restaurants are increased by litigation accusing them of causing obesity. In 2005 the US Congress discussed legislation to prevent civil lawsuits against the food industry in relation to obesity; however, it did not become law.\n\nWith the American Medical Association's 2013 classification of obesity as a chronic disease, it is thought that health insurance companies will more likely pay for obesity treatment, counseling and surgery, and the cost of research and development of fat treatment pills or gene therapy treatments should be more affordable if insurers help to subsidize their cost. The AMA classification is not legally binding, however, so health insurers still have the right to reject coverage for a treatment or procedure.\n\nIn 2014, The European Court of Justice ruled that morbid obesity is a disability. The Court said that if an employee's obesity prevents him from \"full and effective participation of that person in professional life on an equal basis with other workers\", then it shall be considered a disability and that firing someone on such grounds is discriminatory.\n\nThe principal goal of the fat acceptance movement is to decrease discrimination against people who are overweight and obese. However, some in the movement are also attempting to challenge the established relationship between obesity and negative health outcomes.\n\nA number of organizations exist that promote the acceptance of obesity. They have increased in prominence in the latter half of the 20th century. The US-based National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance (NAAFA) was formed in 1969 and describes itself as a civil rights organization dedicated to ending size discrimination.\n\nThe International Size Acceptance Association (ISAA) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) which was founded in 1997. It has more of a global orientation and describes its mission as promoting size acceptance and helping to end weight-based discrimination. These groups often argue for the recognition of obesity as a disability under the US Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA). The American legal system, however, has decided that the potential public health costs exceed the benefits of extending this anti-discrimination law to cover obesity.\n\nIn 2015 the \"New York Times\" published an article on the Global Energy Balance Network, a nonprofit founded in 2014 that advocated for people to focus on increasing exercise rather than reducing calorie intake to avoid obesity and to be healthy. The organization was founded with at least $1.5M in funding from the Coca-Cola Company, and the company has provided $4M in research funding to the two founding scientists Gregory A. Hand and Steven N. Blair since 2008.\n\nThe healthy BMI range varies with the age and sex of the child. Obesity in children and adolescents is defined as a BMI greater than the 95th percentile. The reference data that these percentiles are based on is from 1963 to 1994 and thus has not been affected by the recent increases in rates of obesity. Childhood obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the 21st century, with rising rates in both the developed and the developing world. Rates of obesity in Canadian boys have increased from 11% in the 1980s to over 30% in the 1990s, while during this same time period rates increased from 4 to 14% in Brazilian children.\n\nAs with obesity in adults, many factors contribute to the rising rates of childhood obesity. Changing diet and decreasing physical activity are believed to be the two most important causes for the recent increase in the incidence of child obesity. Because childhood obesity often persists into adulthood and is associated with numerous chronic illnesses, children who are obese are often tested for hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and fatty liver. Treatments used in children are primarily lifestyle interventions and behavioral techniques, although efforts to increase activity in children have had little success. In the United States, medications are not FDA approved for use in this age group. Multi-component behaviour change interventions that include changes to dietary and physical activity may reduce BMI in the short term in children aged 6 to 11 years, although the benefits are small and quality of evidence is low.\n\nObesity in pets is common in many countries. In the United States, 23–41% of dogs are overweight, and about 5.1% are obese. The rate of obesity in cats was slightly higher at 6.4%. In Australia the rate of obesity among dogs in a veterinary setting has been found to be 7.6%. The risk of obesity in dogs is related to whether or not their owners are obese; however, there is no similar correlation between cats and their owners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33973815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33973815", "title": "Online doctor", "text": "Online doctor\n\nOnline doctor is a term that emerged during the 2000s, used by both the media and academics, to describe a generation of physicians and health practitioners who deliver healthcare, including drug prescription, over the internet.\n\nIn the 2000s, many people came to treat the internet as a first, or at least a major, source of information and communication. Health advice is now the second-most popular topic, after pornography, that people search for on the internet. With the advent of broadband and videoconferencing, many individuals have turned to online doctors to receive online consultations and purchase prescription drugs. Use of this technology has many advantages for both the doctor and the patient, including cost savings, convenience, accessibility, and improved privacy and communication.\n\nIn the US, a 2006 study found that searching for information on prescription or over-the-counter drugs was the fifth most popular search topic, and a 2004 study found that 4% of Americans had purchased prescription medications online. A 2009 survey conducted by Geneva-based Health On the Net Foundation found one-in-ten Europeans buys medicines from websites and one-third claim to use online consultation. In Germany, approximately seven million people buy from mail-order pharmacies, and mail-order sales account for approximately 8–10% of total pharmaceutical sales. In 2008, the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain reported that approximately two million people in Great Britain were regularly purchasing pharmaceuticals online (both with a prescription from registered online UK doctors and without prescriptions from other websites). A recent survey commissioned by Pfizer, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, RPSGB, the Patients Association and HEART UK found that 15% of the British adults asked had bought a prescription-only medicine online.\n\nIn developed countries, many online doctors prescribe so-called ‘lifestyle drugs’, such as for weight loss, hair loss or erectile dysfunction. The RPSGB has identified the most popular products prescribed online as Prozac (an antidepressant), Viagra (for erectile dysfunction), Valium (a tranquiliser), Ritalin (a psychostimulant), Serostim (a synthetic growth hormone) and Provigil (a psychostimulant). A study in the USA has also shown that antibiotics are commonly available online without prescription.\n\nTraditionalist critics of online doctors argue that an online doctor cannot provide proper examinations or diagnosis either by email or video call. Such consultations, they argue, will always be dangerous, with the potential for serious disease to be missed. There are also concerns that the absence of proximity leads to treatment by unqualified doctors or patients using false information to secure dangerous drugs.\n\nProponents argue there is little difference between an e-mail consultation and the sort of telephone assessment and advice that doctors regularly make out of hours or in circumstances where doctors cannot physically examine a patient (e.g., jungle medicine).\n\nLaurence Buckman, chairman of the British Medical Association’s GPs’ committee, says that online consultations make life easier for doctors and patients when used properly. \"Many GPs will be very happy with it and it could be useful. When it’s a regular patient you know well, it follows on from telephone consulting. Voice is essential, vision is desirable. The problem comes when I don’t know the patient\".\nNiall Dickson, chief executive of the General Medical Council, says: \"We trust doctors to use their judgement to decide whether they should see a patient in person. Online consultations will be appropriate for some patients, whereas other patients will need a physical examination or may benefit from seeing their doctor in person\".\n\nThe first medical consulting website in the US was WebMD, founded in 1996 by Jim Clark (one of the founders of Netscape) and Pavan Nigam as Healthscape. Currently, its website carries information regarding health and health care, including a symptom checklist, pharmacy information, drug information, blogs of physicians with specific topics, and a place to store personal medical information. As of February 2011, WebMD’s network of sites reaches an average of 86.4 million visitors per month and is the leading health portal in the United States.\n\nOther popular US healthcare and medical consulting sites include NIH.gov, MSN Health, Doctorspring, MdLive, Justdoc, Yahoo! Health, EverydayHealth, WomensHealth.gov, MayoClinic, Doctor Vista, and many have experienced dramatic growth. (Healthline, launched in 2005, grew by 269% to 2.7 million average monthly unique visitors in Q1 2007 from 0.8 million average monthly unique visitors in Q1 2006). Niche consulting sites are also popular including SeniorNet, which deals with age-related syndromes and 4collegewomen.org and GirlsHealth.gov, which target young women. Several American online doctor companies, including Sherpaa, MDlive, Teladoc, First Stop Health, American Well, WebDoc247, MeMD, and Ringadoc, provide consultations with doctors over the phone or the Internet. Prominent San Francisco-based venture capital firm Founders Fund called such services \"extraordinarily fast\" and predicted that they will \"bring relief to thousands of people with immediate medical needs\".\n\nIn the UK, e-med was the first online health site to offer both a diagnosis and prescriptions to patients over the Internet. It was established in March 2000 by Dr. Julian Eden, In 2010, DrThom claimed to have 100,000 patients visit their site. NHS Direct (currently NHS Choices) is the free health advice and information service provided by the National Health Service (NHS) for residents and visitors in the UK, with advice offered 24 hours a day via telephone and web contact. Over 1.5 million patients visit the website every month. More recently, a number of online doctors have emerged in the country, firms such as Now Healthcare Group, Dr Fox Pharmacy, Push Doctor and Lloyds Pharmacy offer consultation and prescriptions via the Internet.\n\nIn Australia HealthDirect is the free health advice and information service provided by the government with advice offered 24 hours a day via telephone. Medicare began funding online consultations for specialists on 1 July 2011 which has seen a slow but steady increase in volumes.\n\nNew advances in digital information technology mean that in future online doctors and healthcare websites may offer advanced scanning and diagnostic services over the internet. The Nuffield Council on Bioethics identifies such services as direct-to-consumer body imaging (such as CT and MRI scans) and personal genetic profiling for individual susceptibility to disease. Professor Sir Bruce Keogh, the medical director of the UK NHS, is drawing up plans to introduce online consultations via Skype and has said IT will \"completely change the way [doctors] deliver medicine\". This concept is gaining more importance and there are some companies who started cashing on it, few companies like Zocdoc or Ziffi have started providing online doctor booking service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17345999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17345999", "title": "Organic food", "text": "Organic food\n\nOrganic food is food produced by methods that comply with the standards of organic farming. Standards vary worldwide, but organic farming in general features practices that strive to cycle resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity. Organizations regulating organic products may restrict the use of certain pesticides and fertilizers in farming. In general, organic foods are also usually not processed using irradiation, industrial solvents or synthetic food additives.\n\nCurrently, the European Union, the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, and many other countries require producers to obtain special certification in order to market food as organic within their borders. In the context of these regulations, organic food is produced in a way that complies with organic standards set by regional organizations, national governments and international organizations. Although the produce of kitchen gardens may be organic, selling food with an organic label is regulated by governmental food safety authorities, such as the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) or European Commission (EC).\n\nFertilizing and the use of pesticides in conventional farming has caused, and is causing, enormous damage worldwide to local ecosystems, biodiversity, groundwater and drinking water supplies, and sometimes farmer health and fertility. These environmental, economic and health issues are intended to be minimized or avoided in organic farming. From a consumers perspective, there is not sufficient evidence in scientific and medical literature to support claims that organic food is safer or healthier to eat than conventionally grown food. While there may be some differences in the nutrient and antinutrient contents of organically- and conventionally-produced food, the variable nature of food production and handling makes it difficult to generalize results. Claims that organic food tastes better are generally not supported by tests.\n\nFor the vast majority of its history, agriculture can be described as having been organic; only during the 20th century was a large supply of new products, generally deemed not organic, introduced into food production. The organic farming movement arose in the 1940s in response to the industrialization of agriculture.\n\nIn 1939, Lord Northbourne coined the term \"organic farming\" in his book \"Look to the Land\" (1940), out of his conception of \"the farm as organism,\" to describe a holistic, ecologically balanced approach to farming—in contrast to what he called \"chemical farming,\" which relied on \"imported fertility\" and \"cannot be self-sufficient nor an organic whole.\" Early soil scientists also described the differences in soil composition when animal manures were used as \"organic\", because they contain carbon compounds where superphosphates and haber process nitrogen do not. Their respective use affects humus content of soil. This is different from the scientific use of the term \"organic\" in chemistry, which refers to a class of molecules that contain carbon, especially those involved in the chemistry of life. This class of molecules includes everything likely to be considered edible, and include most pesticides and toxins too, therefore the term \"organic\" and, especially, the term \"inorganic\" (sometimes wrongly used as a contrast by the popular press) as they apply to organic chemistry is an equivocation fallacy when applied to farming, the production of food, and to foodstuffs themselves. Properly used in this agricultural science context, \"organic\" refers to the methods grown and processed, not necessarily the chemical composition of the food.\n\nIdeas that organic food could be healthier and better for the environment originated in the early days of the organic movement as a result of publications like the 1943 book The Living Soil and \"Farming and Gardening for Health or Disease\" (1945).\n\nIn the industrial era, organic gardening reached a modest level of popularity in the United States in the 1950s. In the 1960s, environmentalists and the counterculture championed organic food, but it was only in the 1970s that a national marketplace for organic foods developed.\n\nEarly consumers interested in organic food would look for non-chemically treated, non-use of unapproved pesticides, fresh or minimally processed food. They mostly had to buy directly from growers. Later, \"Know your farmer, know your food\" became the motto of a new initiative instituted by the USDA in September 2009. Personal definitions of what constituted \"organic\" were developed through firsthand experience: by talking to farmers, seeing farm conditions, and farming activities. Small farms grew vegetables (and raised livestock) using organic farming practices, with or without certification, and the individual consumer monitored. Small specialty health food stores and co-operatives were instrumental to bringing organic food to a wider audience. As demand for organic foods continued to increase, high volume sales through mass outlets such as supermarkets rapidly replaced the direct farmer connection. Today, many large corporate farms have an organic division. However, for supermarket consumers, food production is not easily observable, and product labeling, like \"certified organic,\" is relied upon. Government regulations and third-party inspectors are looked to for assurance.\n\nIn the 1970s, interest in organic food grew with the publication of Silent Spring and the rise of the environmental movement, and was also spurred by food-related health scares like the concerns about Alar that arose in the mid-1980s.\n\nOrganic food production is a self-regulated industry with government oversight in some countries, distinct from private gardening. Currently, the European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan, and many other countries require producers to obtain special certification based on government-defined standards in order to market food as organic within their borders. In the context of these regulations, foods marketed as organic are produced in a way that complies with organic standards set by national governments and international organic industry trade organizations.\n\nIn the United States, organic production is managed in accordance with the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (OFPA) and regulations in Title 7, Part 205 of the Code of Federal Regulations to respond to site-specific conditions by integrating cultural, biological, and mechanical practices that foster cycling of resources, promote ecological balance, and conserve biodiversity. If livestock are involved, the livestock must be reared with regular access to pasture and without the routine use of antibiotics or growth hormones.\n\nProcessed organic food usually contains only organic ingredients. If non-organic ingredients are present, at least a certain percentage of the food's total plant and animal ingredients must be organic (95% in the United States, Canada, and Australia). Foods claiming to be organic must be free of artificial food additives, and are often processed with fewer artificial methods, materials and conditions, such as chemical ripening, food irradiation, and genetically modified ingredients. Pesticides are allowed as long as they are not synthetic. However, under US federal organic standards, if pests and weeds are not controllable through management practices, nor via organic pesticides and herbicides, \"a substance included on the National List of synthetic substances allowed for use in organic crop production may be applied to prevent, suppress, or control pests, weeds, or diseases.\" Several groups have called for organic standards to prohibit nanotechnology on the basis of the precautionary principle in light of unknown risks of nanotechnology. The use of nanotechnology-based products in the production of organic food is prohibited in some jurisdictions (Canada, the UK, and Australia) and is unregulated in others.\n\nTo be certified organic, products must be grown and manufactured in a manner that adheres to standards set by the country they are sold in:\n\nIn the United States, there are four different levels or categories for organic labeling. 1)‘100%’ Organic: This means that all ingredients are produced organically. It also may have the USDA seal. 2)‘Organic’: At least 95% or more of the ingredients are organic. 3)’Made With Organic Ingredients': Contains at least 70% organic ingredients. 4)‘Less Than 70% Organic Ingredients’: Three of the organic ingredients must be listed under the ingredient section of the label. In the U.S., the food label \"natural\" or \"all natural\" does not mean that the food was produced and processed organically.\"\n\nThere is widespread public belief that organic food is safer, more nutritious, and better tasting than conventional food, which has largely contributed to the development of an organic food culture. Consumers purchase organic foods for different reasons, including concerns about the effects of conventional farming practices on the environment, human health, and animal welfare.\n\nThe most important reason for purchasing organic foods seems to be beliefs about the products' health-giving properties and higher nutritional value. These beliefs are promoted by the organic food industry, and have fueled increased demand for organic food despite higher prices and difficulty in confirming these claimed benefits scientifically. Organic labels also stimulate the consumer to view the product as having more positive nutritional value.\n\nPsychological effects such as the “halo” effect, which are related to the choice and consumption of organic food, are also important motivating factors in the purchase of organic food. The perception that organic food is low-calorie food or health food appears to be common.\n\nIn China the increasing demand for organic products of all kinds, and in particular milk, baby food and infant formula, has been \"spurred by a series of food scares, the worst being the death of six children who had consumed baby formula laced with melamine\" in 2009 and the 2008 Chinese milk scandal, making the Chinese market for organic milk the largest in the world as of 2014. A Pew Research Centre survey in 2012 indicated that 41% of Chinese consumers thought of food safety as a very big problem, up by three times from 12% in 2008.\n\nThere is no good evidence that organic food tastes better than its non-organic counterparts. There is evidence that some organic fruit is drier than conventionally grown fruit; a slightly drier fruit may also have a more intense flavor due to the higher concentration of flavoring substances.\n\nSome foods, such as bananas, are picked when unripe, are cooled to prevent ripening while they are shipped to market, and then are induced to ripen quickly by exposing them to propylene or ethylene, chemicals produced by plants to induce their own ripening; as flavor and texture changes during ripening, this process may affect those qualities of the treated fruit.\n\nWith respect to chemical differences in the composition of organically grown food compared with conventionally grown food, studies have examined differences in nutrients, antinutrients, and pesticide residues. These studies generally suffer from confounding variables, and are difficult to generalize due to differences in the tests that were done, the methods of testing, and because the vagaries of agriculture affect the chemical composition of food; these variables include variations in weather (season to season as well as place to place); crop treatments (fertilizer, pesticide, etc.); soil composition; the cultivar used, and in the case of meat and dairy products, the parallel variables in animal production. Treatment of the foodstuffs after initial gathering (whether milk is pasteurized or raw), the length of time between harvest and analysis, as well as conditions of transport and storage, also affect the chemical composition of a given item of food. Additionally, there is evidence that organic produce is drier than conventionally grown produce; a higher content in any chemical category may be explained by higher concentration rather than in absolute amounts.\n\nMany people believe that organic foods have higher content of nutrients and thus are healthier than conventionally produced foods. However, scientists have not been equally convinced that this is the case as the research conducted in the field has not shown consistent results.\n\nA 2009 systematic review found that organically produced foodstuffs are not richer in vitamins and minerals than conventionally produced foodstuffs. The results of the systematic review only showed a lower nitrogen and higher phosphorus content in organic produced compared to conventionally grown foodstuffs. Content of vitamin C, calcium, potassium, total soluble solids, copper, iron, nitrates, manganese, and sodium did not differ between the two categories.\n\nA 2012 survey of the scientific literature did not find significant differences in the vitamin content of organic and conventional plant or animal products, and found that results varied from study to study. Produce studies reported on ascorbic acid (vitamin C) (31 studies), beta-carotene (a precursor for vitamin A) (12 studies), and alpha-tocopherol (a form of vitamin E) (5 studies) content; milk studies reported on beta-carotene (4 studies) and alpha-tocopherol levels (4 studies). Few studies examined vitamin content in meats, but these found no difference in beta-carotene in beef, alpha-tocopherol in pork or beef, or vitamin A (retinol) in beef. The authors analyzed 11 other nutrients reported in studies of produce. A 2011 literature review found that organic foods had a higher micronutrient content overall than conventionally produced foods.\n\nSimilarly, organic chicken contained higher levels of omega-3 fatty acids than conventional chicken. The authors found no difference in the protein or fat content of organic and conventional raw milk.\n\nA 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis found that organic meat had comparable or slightly lower levels of saturated fat and monounsaturated fat as conventional meat, but higher levels of both overall and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. Another meta-analysis published the same year found no significant differences in levels of saturated and monounsaturated fat between organic and conventional milk, but significantly higher levels of overall and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in organic milk than in conventional milk.\n\nThe amount of nitrogen content in certain vegetables, especially green leafy vegetables and tubers, has been found to be lower when grown organically as compared to conventionally. When evaluating environmental toxins such as heavy metals, the USDA has noted that organically raised chicken may have lower arsenic levels. Early literature reviews found no significant evidence that levels of arsenic, cadmium or other heavy metals differed significantly between organic and conventional food products. However, a 2014 review found lower concentrations of cadmium, particularly in organically grown grains.\n\nA 2014 meta-analysis of 343 studies on phytochemical composition found that organically grown crops had lower cadmium and pesticide residues, and 17% higher concentrations of polyphenols than conventionally grown crops. Concentrations of phenolic acids, flavanones, stilbenes, flavones, flavonols, and anthocyanins were elevated, with flavanones being 69% higher. Studies on phytochemical composition of organic crops have numerous deficiencies, including absence of standardized measurements and poor reporting on measures of variability, duplicate or selective reporting of data, publication bias, lack of rigor in studies comparing pesticide residue levels in organic and conventional crops, the geographical origin of samples, and inconsistency of farming and post-harvest methods.\n\nThe amount of pesticides that remain in or on food is called pesticide residue. In the United States, before a pesticide can be used on a food crop, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency must determine whether that pesticide can be used without posing a risk to human health.\n\nA 2012 meta-analysis determined that detectable pesticide residues were found in 7% of organic produce samples and 38% of conventional produce samples. This result was statistically heterogeneous, potentially because of the variable level of detection used among these studies. Only three studies reported the prevalence of contamination exceeding maximum allowed limits; all were from the European Union. A 2014 meta-analysis found that conventionally grown produce was four times more likely to have pesticide residue than organically grown crops.\n\nThe American Cancer Society has stated that no evidence exists that the small amount of pesticide residue found on conventional foods will increase the risk of cancer, although it recommends thoroughly washing fruits and vegetables. They have also stated that there is no research to show that organic food reduces cancer risk compared to foods grown with conventional farming methods.\n\nThe Environmental Protection Agency maintains strict guidelines on the regulation of pesticides by setting a tolerance on the amount of pesticide residue allowed to be in or on any particular food.\nAlthough some residue may remain at the time of harvest, residue tend to decline as the pesticide breaks down over time. In addition, as the commodities are washed and processed prior to sale, the residues often diminish further.\n\nA 2012 meta-analysis determined that prevalence of \"E. coli\" contamination was not statistically significant (7% in organic produce and 6% in conventional produce). While bacterial contamination is common among both organic and conventional animal products, differences in the prevalence of bacterial contamination between organic and conventional animal products were also statistically insignificant.\n\nOrganic meat certification in the United States requires farm animals to be raised according to USDA organic regulations throughout their lives. These regulations require that livestock are fed certified organic food that contains no animal byproducts. Further, organic farm animals can receive no growth hormones or antibiotics, and they must be raised using techniques that protect native species and other natural resources. Irradiation and genetic engineering are not allowed with organic animal production. One of the major differences in organic animal husbandry protocol is the \"pasture rule\": minimum requirements for time on pasture do vary somewhat by species and between the certifying agencies, but the common theme is to require as much time on pasture as possible and reasonable.\n\nThere is little scientific evidence of benefit or harm to human health from a diet high in organic food, and conducting any sort of rigorous experiment on the subject is very difficult. A 2012 meta-analysis noted that \"there have been no long-term studies of health outcomes of populations consuming predominantly organic versus conventionally produced food controlling for socioeconomic factors; such studies would be expensive to conduct.\" A 2009 meta-analysis noted that \"most of the included articles did not study direct human health outcomes. In ten of the included studies (83%), a primary outcome was the change in antioxidant activity. Antioxidant status and activity are useful biomarkers but do not directly equate to a health outcome. Of the remaining two articles, one recorded proxy-reported measures of atopic manifestations as its primary health outcome, whereas the other article examined the fatty acid composition of breast milk and implied possible health benefits for infants from the consumption of different amounts of conjugated linoleic acids from breast milk.\" In addition, as discussed above, difficulties in accurately and meaningfully measuring chemical differences between organic and conventional food make it difficult to extrapolate health recommendations based solely on chemical analysis.\n\nAs of 2012, the scientific consensus is that while \"consumers may choose to buy organic fruit, vegetables and meat because they believe them to be more nutritious than other food... the balance of current scientific evidence does not support this view.\" The evidence of beneficial health effects of organic food consumption is scarce, which has led researchers to call for more long-term studies. In addition, studies that suggest that organic foods may be healthier than conventional foods face significant methodological challenges, such as the correlation between organic food consumption and factors known to promote a healthy lifestyle. When the American Academy of Pediatrics reviewed the literature on organic foods in 2012, they found that \"current evidence does not support any meaningful nutritional benefits or deficits from eating organic compared with conventionally grown foods, and there are no well-powered human studies that directly demonstrate health benefits or disease protection as a result of consuming an organic diet.\"\n\nThe main difference between organic and conventional food products are the chemicals involved during production and processing. The residues of those chemicals in food products have dubious effects on human health. All food products on the market including those that contain residues of pesticides, antibiotics, growth hormones and other types of chemicals that are used during production and processing are said to be safe.\n\nClaims of improved safety of organic food has largely focused on pesticide residues. These concerns are driven by the facts that \"(1) acute, massive exposure to pesticides can cause significant adverse health effects;\n(2) food products have occasionally been contaminated with pesticides, which can result in acute toxicity; and (3) most, if not all, commercially purchased food contains trace amounts of agricultural pesticides.\" However, as is frequently noted in the scientific literature: \"What does not follow from this, however, is that chronic exposure to the trace amounts of pesticides found in food results in demonstrable toxicity. This possibility is practically impossible to study and quantify;\" therefore firm conclusions about the relative safety of organic foods have been hampered by the difficulty in proper study design and relatively small number of studies directly comparing organic food to conventional food.\n\nAdditionally, the Carcinogenic Potency Project, which is a part of the US EPA's Distributed Structure-Searchable Toxicity (DSSTox) Database Network, has been systemically testing the carcinogenicity of chemicals, both natural and synthetic, and building a publicly available database of the results for the past ~30 years. Their work attempts to fill in the gaps in our scientific knowledge of the carcinogenicity of all chemicals, both natural and synthetic, as the scientists conducting the Project described in the journal, \"Science\", in 1992: Toxicological examination of synthetic chemicals, without similar examination of chemicals that occur naturally, has resulted in an imbalance in both the data on and the perception of chemical carcinogens. Three points that we have discussed indicate that comparisons should be made with natural as well as synthetic chemicals.<br>\n1) The vast proportion of chemicals that humans are exposed to occur naturally. Nevertheless, the public tends to view chemicals as only synthetic and to think of synthetic chemicals as toxic despite the fact that every natural chemical is also toxic at some dose. The daily average exposure of Americans to burnt material in the diet is ~2000 mg, and exposure to natural pesticides (the chemicals that plants produce to defend themselves) is ~1500 mg. In comparison, the total daily exposure to all synthetic pesticide residues combined is ~0.09 mg. Thus, we estimate that 99.99% of the pesticides humans ingest are natural. Despite this enormously greater exposure to natural chemicals, 79% (378 out of 479) of the chemicals tested for carcinogenicity in both rats and mice are synthetic (that is, do not occur naturally). <br>\n2) It has often been wrongly assumed that humans have evolved defenses against the natural chemicals in our diet but not against the synthetic chemicals. However, defenses that animals have evolved are mostly general rather than specific for particular chemicals; moreover, defenses are generally inducible and therefore protect well from low doses of both synthetic and natural chemicals.<br>\n3) Because the toxicology of natural and synthetic chemicals is similar, one expects (and finds) a similar positivity rate for carcinogenicity among synthetic and natural chemicals. The positivity rate among chemicals tested in rats and mice is ~50%. Therefore, because humans are exposed to so many more natural than synthetic chemicals (by weight and by number), humans are exposed to an enormous background of rodent carcinogens, as defined by high-dose tests on rodents. We have shown that even though only a tiny proportion of natural pesticides in plant foods have been tested, the 29 that are rodent carcinogens among the 57 tested, occur in more than 50 common plant foods. It is probable that almost every fruit and vegetable in the supermarket contains natural pesticides that are rodent carcinogens.\n\nWhile studies have shown via chemical analysis, as discussed above, that organically grown fruits and vegetables have significantly lower pesticide residue levels, the significance of this finding on actual health risk reduction is debatable as both conventional foods and organic foods generally have pesticide levels well below government established guidelines for what is considered safe. This view has been echoed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the UK Food Standards Agency.\n\nA study published by the National Research Council in 1993 determined that for infants and children, the major source of exposure to pesticides is through diet. A study published in 2006 by Lu et al. measured the levels of organophosphorus pesticide exposure in 23 school children before and after replacing their diet with organic food. In this study it was found that levels of organophosphorus pesticide exposure dropped from negligible levels to undetectable levels when the children switched to an organic diet, the authors presented this reduction as a significant reduction in risk. The conclusions presented in Lu et al. were criticized in the literature as a case of bad scientific communication.\n\nMore specifically, claims related to pesticide residue of increased risk of infertility or lower sperm counts have not been supported by the evidence in the medical literature. Likewise the American Cancer Society (ACS) has stated their official position that \"whether organic foods carry a lower risk of cancer because they are less likely to be contaminated by compounds that might cause cancer is largely unknown.\" Reviews have noted that the risks from microbiological sources or natural toxins are likely to be much more significant than short term or chronic risks from pesticide residues.\n\nIn looking at possible increased risk to safety from organic food consumption, reviews have found that although there may be increased risk from microbiological contamination due to increased manure use as fertilizer from organisms like during organic produce production, there is little evidence of actual incidence of outbreaks which can be positively blamed on organic food production. The was blamed on organic farming of bean sprouts.\n\nFrom an environmental and economical perspective, fertilizing, overproduction and the use of pesticides in conventional farming has caused, and is causing, enormous damage worldwide to local ecosystems, biodiversity, groundwater and drinking water supplies, and sometimes farmer's health and fertility.\n\nDemand for organic foods is primarily driven by concerns for personal health and for the environment. Global sales for organic foods climbed by more than 170 percent since 2002 reaching more than $63 billion in 2011 while certified organic farmland remained relatively small at less than 2 percent of total farmland under production, increasing in OECD and EU countries (which account for the majority of organic production) by 35 percent for the same time period. Organic products typically cost 10 to 40% more than similar conventionally produced products, to several times the price. Processed organic foods vary in price when compared to their conventional counterparts.\n\nWhile organic food accounts for 1–2% of total food production worldwide, the organic food sales market is growing rapidly with between 5 and 10 percent of the food market share in the United States according to the Organic Trade Association, significantly outpacing sales growth volume in dollars of conventional food products. World organic food sales jumped from US $23 billion in 2002 to $63 billion in 2011.\n\nProduction and consumption of organic products is rising rapidly in Asia, and both China and India are becoming global producers of organic crops and a number of countries, particularly China and Japan, also becoming large consumers of organic food and drink. The disparity between production and demand, is leading to a two-tier organic food industry, typified by significant and growing imports of primary organic products such as dairy and beef from Australia, Europe, New Zealand and the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35541718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35541718", "title": "Otherside Farms", "text": "Otherside Farms\n\nOtherside Farms is a medical cannabis information center with a separate division serving as a private medical cannabis collective.\n\nOtherside Farms Cannabis Information Center was opened around 2010 by a Newport Beach couple, Alysha and Chadd McKeen, hoping their new \"medical marijuana information center\" would help dissolve stigmas associated with cannabis.\n\nThe McKeens had a personal incentive to teach people about the benefits of cannabis, as Alysha had gone through cancer with the help of the plant. City officials approved the location to be legal as long as cannabis was not distributed there.\n\nIn late August 2011, Otherside Farms opened a private collective, maintaining it as a separate entity from Otherside Farms. On January 17, 2012, the private collective was raided by federal officials. Controversy ensued over the raid, as city officials had secretly authorized a letter seeking federal law enforcement assistance in shutting down the collective, which an expert claimed was illegal. The basis for the raid was an accusation by a city inspector claiming that Chadd McKeen hoped to profit from his business. McKeen denied the accusation, stating that his words were misconstrued, and that Otherside Farms had been trying to communicate a plan to help resolve the Cosa Mesa budget deficit that had been present since 2010, only for meeting requests to be turned down by city officials.\n"}
{"id": "41998076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41998076", "title": "Penang Water Supply Corporation", "text": "Penang Water Supply Corporation\n\nPenang Water Supply Corporation (; abbreviation PBAPP) state government-linked companies which responsible for water supply services in Penang.\n\nPBAPP FC is a football club owned by Penang Water Supply Corporation (PBAPP)\n\n"}
{"id": "503193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503193", "title": "Planned Parenthood", "text": "Planned Parenthood\n\nPlanned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. (PPFA), or Planned Parenthood, is a nonprofit organization that provides reproductive health care in the United States and globally. It is a tax-exempt corporation under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)(3) and a member association of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF). PPFA has its roots in Brooklyn, New York, where Margaret Sanger opened the first birth control clinic in the U.S. in 1916. Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921, which changed its name to Planned Parenthood in 1942.\n\nPlanned Parenthood consists of 159 medical and non-medical affiliates, which operate over 600 health clinics in the U.S. It partners with organizations in 12 countries globally. The organization directly provides a variety of reproductive health services and sexual education, contributes to research in reproductive technology and advocates for the protection and expansion of reproductive rights.\n\nPPFA is the largest single provider of reproductive health services, including abortion, in the U.S. In their 2014 Annual Report, PPFA reported seeing over 2.5million patients in over 4million clinical visits and performing a total of nearly 9.5million discrete services including 324,000 abortions. Its combined annual revenue is , including approximately in government funding such as Medicaid reimbursements. Throughout its history, PPFA and its member clinics have experienced support, controversy, protests, and violent attacks.\n\nThe origins of Planned Parenthood date to October 16, 1916, when Margaret Sanger, her sister Ethel Byrne, and Fania Mindell opened the first birth control clinic in the U.S. in the Brownsville section of the New York borough of Brooklyn. They distributed birth control, birth control advice, and birth control information. All three women were arrested and jailed for violating provisions of the Comstock Act, accused of distributing obscene materials at the clinic. The so-called Brownsville trials brought national attention and support to their cause. Sanger and her co-defendants were convicted on misdemeanor charges, which they appealed through two subsequent appeals courts. While the convictions were not overturned, the judge who issued the final ruling also modified the law to permit physician-prescribed birth control. The women's campaign led to major changes in the laws governing birth control and sex education in the United States.\n\nIn 1921, the clinic was organized into the American Birth Control League, the core of the only national birth-control organization in the U.S. until the 1960s. By 1941, it was operating 222 centers and had served 49,000 clients. However, some found its title offensive and \"against families\", so the League began discussions for a new name. In 1938, a group of private citizens organized the Citizens Committee for Planned Parenthood to aid the American Birth Control League in spreading scientific knowledge about birth control to the general public. In 1942, the League officially changed its name to the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.\n\nLargely relying on a volunteer workforce, by 1960 the Federation had provided family planning counseling in hundreds of communities across the country. Planned Parenthood was one of the founding members of the International Planned Parenthood Federation when it was launched at a conference in Bombay (now Mumbai), India, in 1952.\n\nBoth Planned Parenthood and Margaret Sanger are strongly associated with the abortion issue today. For much of the organization's history, however, and throughout Sanger's life, abortion was illegal in the U.S., and discussions of the issue were often censored. During this period, Sanger – like other American advocates of birth control – publicly condemned abortion, arguing that it would not be needed if every woman had access to birth control.\n\nFollowing Margaret Sanger, Alan Frank Guttmacher became president of Planned Parenthood, serving from 1962 until 1974. During his tenure, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the sale of the original birth control pill, giving rise to new attitudes towards women's reproductive freedom. Also during his presidency, Planned Parenthood lobbied the federal government to support reproductive health, culminating with President Richard Nixon's signing of Title X to provide governmental subsidies for low-income women to access family planning services. The Center for Family Planning Program Development was also founded as a semi-autonomous division during this time. The center became an independent organization and was renamed the Guttmacher Institute in 1977.\n\nPlanned Parenthood began to advocate abortion law reform beginning in 1955, when the organization's medical director, Mary Calderone, convened a national conference of medical professionals on the issue. The conference was the first instance of physicians and other professionals advocating reform of the laws which criminalized abortion, and it played a key role in creating a movement for the reform of abortion laws in the U.S. Focusing, at first, on legalizing therapeutic abortion, Planned Parenthood became an increasingly vocal proponent of liberalized abortion laws during the 1960s, culminating in its call for the repeal of all anti-abortion laws in 1969. In the years that followed, the organization played a key role in landmark abortion rights cases such as \"Roe v Wade\" (1973) and \"Planned Parenthood v Casey\" (1992). Once abortion was legalized during the early 1970s, Planned Parenthood also began acting as an abortion provider.\n\nFaye Wattleton became the first African American president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America in 1978. Wattleton, who was also the youngest president in Planned Parenthood's history, served in this role until 1992. During her term, Planned Parenthood grew to become the seventh largest charity in the country, providing services to four million clients each year through its 170 affiliates, whose activities were spread across 50 states.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2006, Planned Parenthood was led by Gloria Feldt. Feldt activated the Planned Parenthood Action Fund (PPAF), the organization's political action committee, launching what was the most far reaching electoral advocacy effort in its history. The PPAF serves as the nonpartisan political advocacy arm of PPFA. It engages in educational and electoral activity, including legislative advocacy, voter education, and grassroots organizing to promote the PPFA mission. Feldt also launched the Responsible Choices Action Agenda, a nationwide campaign to increase services to prevent unwanted pregnancies, improve quality of reproductive care, and ensure access to safe and legal abortions. Another initiative was the commencement of a \"Global Partnership Program\", with the aim of building a vibrant activist constituency in support of family planning.\n\nOn February 15, 2006, Cecile Richards, the daughter of former Texas governor Ann Richards, and formerly the deputy chief of staff to the U.S. Rep. Nancy Pelosi (the Democratic Leader in the United States House of Representatives), became president of the organization. In 2012, Richards was voted one of \"Time\" magazine's \"100 Most Influential People in the World\".\n\nRichards' tenure as president of the organization ended on April 30, 2018. Current Planned Parenthood board member Joe Solmonese was appointed as transition chair to temporarily oversee day-to-day operations of Planned Parenthood after Richards’ departure.\n\nOn September 12, 2018, the organization announced that Leana Wen would take over as president, effective November 2018.\n\nIn 1966, PPFA began awarding the Margaret Sanger Award annually to honor, in their words, \"individuals of distinction in recognition of excellence and leadership in furthering reproductive health and reproductive rights.\" In the first year, it was awarded to four men: Carl G. Hartman, William H. Draper, Lyndon Baines Johnson, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Later recipients have included John D. Rockefeller III, Katharine Hepburn, Jane Fonda, Hillary Clinton, and Ted Turner.\n\nThe services provided by PPFA affiliates vary by location, with just over half of all Planned Parenthood affiliates in the U.S. performing abortions. Services provided by PPFA include birth control and long-acting reversible contraception; emergency contraception; clinical breast examinations; cervical cancer screening; pregnancy testing and pregnancy options counseling; testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections; sex education; vasectomies; LGBT services; and abortion. Contrary to the assumption of some, Planned Parenthood conducts cancer screenings but does not provide mammograms.\n\nIn 2013, PPFA reported seeing 2.7million patients in 4.6million clinical visits. Roughly 16% of its clients are teenagers. According to PPFA, in 2014 the organization provided 3.6million contraceptive services, 4.5million sexually transmitted infection services, about 1million cancer related services, over 1million pregnancy tests and prenatal services, over 324,000 abortion services, and over 100,000 other services, for a total of 9.5million discrete services. PPFA is well known for providing services to minorities and the poor; according to PPFA, approximately four out of five of their clients have incomes at or below 150percent of the federal poverty level. Services for men's health include STD testing and treatment, vasectomy procedures, and erectile dysfunction services. Education is available regarding male birth control and lowering the risk of sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nPPFA has two national offices in the U.S.: one in Washington, D.C., and one in New York City. It has three international offices, including a hub office in London, England. It has 68 medical and related affiliates and 101 other affiliates including 34 political action committees. These affiliates together operate more than 700 health centers in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. PPFA owns about in property, including real estate. In addition, PPFA spends a little over per year for rented space. The largest facility, a , structure, was completed in Houston, Texas, in May 2010.\n\nPPFA's international outreach and other activities are performed by Planned Parenthood Global, a division of PPFA, and by the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) which now consists of more than 149 Member Associations working in more than 189 countries. The IPPF is further associated with International Planned Parenthood Federation affiliates in the Caribbean and the Americas, and IPPF European Network, as well as other organizations like Family Planning Queensland, Pro Familia (Germany) and \"mouvement français pour le planning familial\" (French Movement for Family Planning) . Offices are located in New York, NY; Washington, D.C.; Miami, FL; Guatemala City, Guatemala; Abuja, Nigeria; and Nairobi, Kenya. The organization's focus countries are Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Peru, Senegal, Burkina Faso, Nigeria, Sudan, South Sudan, Uganda, Ethiopia, and Kenya. The Bloomberg Philanthropies donated for Planned Parenthood Global's reproductive health and family planning efforts in Tanzania, Nicaragua, Burkina Faso, Senegal and Uganda. Among specific countries and territories serviced by Planned Parenthood Global's reproductive planning outreach are Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, French Guiana, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Martinique, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Venezuela, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, Dominican Republic, Barbados, Bolivia, Ecuador, Guadeloupe, Saint Martin, Guyana, Cape Verde and Samoa.\n\nPlanned Parenthood has received federal funding since 1970, when President Richard Nixon signed into law the Family Planning Services and Population Research Act, amending the Public Health Service Act. Title X of that law provides funding for family planning services, including contraception and family planning information. The law had support from both Republicans and Democrats. Nixon described Title X funding as based on the premise that \"no American woman should be denied access to family planning assistance because of her economic condition.\"\n\nDonors to Planned Parenthood have included the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Buffett Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the Turner Foundation, the Cullmans, and others. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's contributions to the organization have been specifically marked to avoid funding abortions. Some donors, such as the Buffett Foundation, have supported reproductive health that can include abortion services. Pro-life groups have advocated the boycott of donors to Planned Parenthood. Corporate donors include CREDO Mobile.\n\nIn the fiscal year ending June 30, 2014, total revenue was : non-government health services revenue was , government revenue (such as Medicaid reimbursements) was , private contributions totaled , and came from other operating revenue. According to Planned Parenthood, 59% of the group's revenue is put towards the provision of health services, while non-medical services such as sex education and public policy work make up another 15%; management expenses, fundraising, and international family planning programs account for about 16%, and 10% of the revenue in 2013–2014 was not spent.\n\nPlanned Parenthood receives over a third of its money in government grants and contracts (about in 2014). By law (Hyde Amendment), federal funding cannot be allocated for abortions (except in rare cases), but some opponents of abortion have argued that allocating money to Planned Parenthood for the provision of other medical services allows other funds to be reallocated for abortions.\n\nA coalition of national and local pro-life groups have lobbied federal and state governments to stop funding Planned Parenthood. As a result, federal and state legislators have proposed legislation to reduce funding levels. Eight statesAlabama, Arkansas, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, New Hampshire, Ohio, and Utahhave enacted such proposals. In some cases, the courts have overturned such actions, citing conflict with federal or state laws; in others the federal executive branch has provided funding in lieu of the states. In some states, Planned Parenthood was completely or partially defunded.\n\nIn August 2015, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal attempted to end Louisiana's contract with Planned Parenthood to treat Medicaid patients at a time when there was an epidemic of sexually transmitted diseases in Louisiana. Planned Parenthood and three patients sued the state of Louisiana, with the United States Department of Justice siding with Planned Parenthood.\n\nOn February 2, 2016, the U.S. House failed to override President Obama's veto of (Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015) which would have prohibited Planned Parenthood from receiving any federal Medicaid funds for one year.\n\nLate in 2016, the Obama administration issued a rule effective in January 2017 banning U.S. states from withholding federal family-planning funds from health clinics that give abortions, including Planned Parenthood affiliates; this rule mandates that local and state governments give federal funds for services related to sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy care, fertility, contraception, and breast and cervical cancer screening to qualified health providers whether or not they give abortions. However, this rule was blocked by a federal judge the day before it would have taken effect. In 2017, it was overturned by new legislation.\n\nThe proposed American Health Care Act (), announced by Congressional Republicans in March 2017, would have made Planned Parenthood \"ineligible for Medicaid reimbursements or federal family planning grants.\"\n\nPlanned Parenthood is an advocate for the legal and political protection of reproductive rights. This advocacy includes helping to sponsor abortion rights and women's rights events. The Federation opposes restrictions on women's reproductive health services, including parental consent laws for minors. To justify this position, Planned Parenthood has cited the case of Becky Bell, who died following an illegal abortion rather than seek parental consent for a legal one. Planned Parenthood also takes the position that laws requiring parental notification before an abortion can be performed on a minor are unconstitutional on privacy grounds.\n\nThe organization opposes laws requiring ultrasounds before abortions, stating that their only purpose is to make abortions more difficult to obtain. Planned Parenthood has also opposed initiatives that require waiting periods before abortions, and bans on late-term abortions including intact dilation and extraction, which has been illegal in the U.S. since 2003. Planned Parenthood supports the wide availability of emergency contraception such as the PlanB pill. It opposes conscience clauses, which allow pharmacists to refuse to dispense drugs against their beliefs. Planned Parenthood has been critical of hospitals that do not provide access to emergency contraception for rape victims. Citing the need for medically accurate information in sex education, Planned Parenthood opposes abstinence-only education in public schools. Instead, Planned Parenthood is a provider of, and endorses, comprehensive sex education, which includes discussion of both abstinence and birth control.\n\nPlanned Parenthood's advocacy activities are executed by the \"Planned Parenthood Action Fund\", which is registered as a 501(c)(4) charity, and files financial information jointly with PPFA. The committee was founded in 1996, by then-president Gloria Feldt, for the purpose of maintaining reproductive health rights and supporting political candidates of the same mindset. In the 2012 election cycle, the committee gained prominence based on its effectiveness of spending on candidates. Although the Planned Parenthood Action Fund (PPAF) shares some leadership with the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, the president of PPAF, Cecile Richards, testified before Congress in September 2015 that she did not manage the organization. The Planned Parenthood Action Fund has 58 active, separately incorporated chapters in 41 states and maintains national headquarters in New York and Washington, D.C. Planned Parenthood has received grants from the Obama administration to help promote the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ObamaCare.\n\nPlanned Parenthood spends money on politics and elections through the Planned Parenthood Action Fund (its federal political action committee), through its Super PAC, and through a variety of related 501(c)(4) entities. Planned Parenthood endorsed Obama in the 2008 and 2012 presidential elections. In the 2014 election cycle, Planned Parenthood spent on contributions to candidates and political parties (overwhelmingly to Democrats) and on independent expenditures.\n\nPlanned Parenthood regional chapters have been active in the American courts. A number of cases in which Planned Parenthood has been a party have reached the U.S. Supreme Court. Notable among these cases is the 1992 case \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\", the case that sets forth the current constitutional abortion standard. In this case, \"Planned Parenthood\" was the Southeast Pennsylvania Chapter, and \"Casey\" was Robert Casey, the governor of Pennsylvania. The ultimate ruling was split, and \"Roe v. Wade\" was narrowed but upheld in an opinion written by Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony Kennedy, and David Souter. Harry Blackmun and John Paul Stevens concurred with the main decision in separately written opinions. The Supreme Court struck down spousal consent requirements for married women to obtain abortions, but found no \"undue burden\"—an alternative to strict scrutiny, which tests the allowable limitations on rights protected under the Constitution—from the other statutory requirements. Dissenting were William Rehnquist, Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas, and Byron White. Blackmun, Rehnquist, and White were the only justices who voted on the original \"Roe v. Wade\" decision in 1973 who were still on the Supreme Court to rule on this case, and their votes on this case were consistent with their votes on the original decision that legalized abortion. Only Blackmun voted to maintain \"Roe v. Wade\" in its entirety.\n\nOther related cases include:\n\n\nSome state attorney generals have subpoenaed medical records of patients treated by Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood has gone to court to keep from turning over these records, citing medical privacy and concerns about the motivation for seeking the records.\n\nIn 2006, Kansas Attorney General Phill Kline, a Republican, released some sealed patient records obtained from Planned Parenthood to the public. His actions were described as \"troubling\" by the state Supreme Court, but Planned Parenthood was compelled to turn over the medical records, albeit with more stringent court-mandated privacy safeguards for the patients involved. In 2007 Kline's successor, Paul J. Morrison, a Democrat, notified the clinic that no criminal charges would be filed after a three-year investigation, as \"an objective, unbiased and thorough examination\" showed no wrongdoing. Morrison stated that he believed Kline had politicized the Attorney General's office. In 2012, a Kansas district attorney found that the practices of the Kansas City-area Planned Parenthood clinic were \"within accepted practices in the medical community\" and dropped all of the remaining criminal charges. In all, the Planned Parenthood clinic had faced 107 criminal charges from Kline and other Kansas prosecutors, all of which were ultimately dismissed.\n\nIn 2006, the Indiana Court of Appeals ruled that Planned Parenthood was not required to turn over its medical records in an investigation of possible child abuse. In 2005, Planned Parenthood Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota was fined for violating a Minnesota state parental consent law.\n\nIn 2012, a Texas state court judge, Gary Harger, denied Planned Parenthood request for a temporary restraining order against the State of Texas, concluding that the State may exclude otherwise qualified doctors and clinics from receiving state funding if the doctors or clinics advocate for abortion rights.\n\nIn the 1920s, various theories of eugenics were popular among intellectuals in the U.S. (For example, 75% of colleges offered courses on eugenics.) In her campaign to promote birth control, Sanger teamed with eugenics organizations such as the American Eugenics Society, although she argued against many of their positions. Scholars describe Sanger as believing that birth control and sterilization should be voluntary, and not based on race. Sanger advocated for \"voluntary motherhood\"—the right to choose when to be pregnant—for all women, as an important element of women's rights. As part of her efforts to promote birth control, however, Sanger found common cause with proponents of eugenics, believing that she and they both sought to \"assist the race toward the elimination of the unfit\".\n\nCritics of Planned Parenthood often refer to Sanger's connection with supporters of eugenics to discredit the organization by associating it, and birth control, with the more negative modern view of eugenics. Planned Parenthood has responded to this effort directly in a leaflet acknowledging that Sanger agreed with some of her contemporaries who advocated the voluntary hospitalization or sterilization of people with untreatable, disabling, hereditary conditions, and limits on the immigration of the diseased. The leaflet also states that Planned Parenthood \"finds these views objectionable and outmoded\" but says that it was compelled to discuss the topic because \"anti-family planning activists continue to attack Sanger[...] because she is an easier target\" than Planned Parenthood.\n\nPlanned Parenthood has occupied a central position in the abortion debate in the U.S., and has been among the most prominent targets of the U.S. pro-life movement for decades. Some members of Congress, overwhelmingly Republican, have attempted since the 1980s to end federal funding of the organization, nearly leading to a government shutdown over the issue in 2011. Planned Parenthood has consistently maintained that federal money received by Planned Parenthood is not used to fund abortion services, but pro-life activists have argued that the federal funding frees up other resources that are, in turn, used to provide abortions.\n\nPlanned Parenthood is the largest single provider of abortions in the U.S., but pro-choice advocates have argued that the organization's family planning services reduce the need for abortions; in the words of Megan Crepeau of the \"Chicago Tribune\", Planned Parenthood could be \"characterized as America's largest abortion preventer\". Pro-life activists dispute the evidence that greater access to contraceptives reduces abortion frequency.\nPeriodically, pro-life advocates and activists have tried to demonstrate that Planned Parenthood does not follow applicable state or federal laws. The groups called or visited Planned Parenthood health centers posing as victims of statutory rape, minors who by law need parental notification before abortion, racist donors seeking to earmark donations to reduce the African-American population, or pimps seeking abortions for underage prostitutes. As a result of some of these videos, several Planned Parenthood workers have been disciplined or fired. However, a 2005 review by the Bush administration's Department of Health and Human Services \"yielded no evidence of clinics around the nation failing to comply with laws on reporting child abuse, child molestation, sexual abuse, rape or incest\".\n\nBeginning in 2010, Live Action has released several series of undercover videos filmed in Planned Parenthood centers. Live Action said one series showed Planned Parenthood employees at many affiliates actively assisting or being complicit in aiding a prostitution ring, advising patients on how to procure sex-selective abortions, while one who said they would immerse a child born alive after a botched abortion in a chemical solution to make it stop moving and breathing. No criminal convictions resulted, but some Planned Parenthood employees and volunteers were fired for not following procedure, and the organization committed to retraining its staff. Additionally, one center was placed on probation.\n\nIn the U.S., abortion providers have been threatened with death, and facilities that provide abortions have been attacked or vandalized. Planned Parenthood clinics have been the target of a number of instances of violence by anti-abortion activists, including bombing, arson and attacks with chemical weaponry. In 1994, John Salvi entered a Brookline, Massachusetts Planned Parenthood clinic and opened fire, murdering receptionist Shannon Elizabeth Lowney and wounding three others. He fled to another Planned Parenthood clinic where he murdered Leane Nichols and wounded two others. In 2012, a Grand Chute, Wisconsin, Planned Parenthood clinic was subject to a bombing perpetrated by an unknown individual. In 2015, a Planned Parenthood clinic in Pullman, Washington was heavily damaged by arson.\n\nOn November 27, 2015, a gunman shot and killed two civilians and a police officer during a five-hour gun battle at the Colorado Springs, Colorado clinic. The 57-year-old gunman, Robert Dear, surrendered to police and was taken into custody. During his arrest, he gave a \"rambling\" interview in which, at one point, he said \"no more baby parts\", echoing language used in the news media about the clinic following the Center for Medical Progress videos. Dear was declared incompetent to stand trial for the shooting, citing experts' finding that he suffers from \"delusional disorder, persecutory type.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1145683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145683", "title": "Raymond Cattell", "text": "Raymond Cattell\n\nRaymond Bernard Cattell (20 March 1905 – 2 February 1998) was a British and American psychologist, known for his psychometric research into intrapersonal psychological structure. His work also explored the basic dimensions of personality and temperament, the range of cognitive abilities, the dynamic dimensions of motivation and emotion, the clinical dimensions of abnormal personality, patterns of group syntality and social behavior, applications of personality research to psychotherapy and learning theory, predictors of creativity and achievement, and many multivariate research methods including the refinement of factor analytic methods for exploring and measuring these domains. Cattell authored, co-authored, or edited almost 60 scholarly books, more than 500 research articles, and over 30 standardized psychometric tests, questionnaires, and rating scales. According to a widely cited ranking, Cattell was the 16th most eminent, 7th most cited in the scientific journal literature, and among the most productive, but controversial psychologists of the 20th century.\n\nCattell was an early proponent of using factor analytic methods instead of what he called \"subjective verbal theorizing\" to explore empirically the basic dimensions of personality, motivation, and cognitive abilities. One of the results of Cattell's application of factor analysis was his discovery of 16 separate primary trait factors within the normal personality sphere (based on the trait lexicon). He called these factors \"source traits\". This theory of personality factors and the self-report instrument used to measure them are known respectively as the 16 personality factor model and the 16PF Questionnaire (16PF).\n\nCattell also undertook a series of empirical studies into the basic dimensions of other psychological domains: intelligence, motivation, career assessment and vocational interests. Cattell theorized the existence of fluid and crystallized intelligence to explain human cognitive ability, investigated changes in Gf and Gc over the lifespan, and constructed the Culture Fair Intelligence Test to minimize the bias of written language and cultural background in intelligence testing.\n\nCattell's research was mainly in personality, abilities, motivations, and innovative multivariate research methods and statistical analysis (especially his many refinements to exploratory factor analytic methodology). In his personality research, he is best remembered for his factor-analytically derived 16-factor model of normal personality structure, arguing for this model over Eysenck's simpler higher-order 3-factor model, and constructing measures of these primary factors in the form of the 16PF Questionnaire (and its downward extensions: HSPQ, and CPQ, respectively). He was the first to propose a hierarchical, multi-level model of personality with the many basic primary factors at the first level and the fewer, broader, \"second-order\" factors at a higher stratum of personality organization. These \"global trait\" constructs are the precursors of the currently popular Big Five (FFM) model of personality. Cattell's research led to further advances, such as distinguishing between state and trait measures (e.g., state-trait anxiety), ranging on a continuum from immediate transitory emotional states, through longer-acting mood states, dynamic motivational traits, and also relatively enduring personality traits. Cattell also conducted empirical studies into developmental changes in personality trait constructs across the lifespan.\n\nIn the cognitive abilities domain, Cattell researched a wide range of abilities, but is best known for the distinction between fluid and crystallized intelligence. He distinguished between the abstract, adaptive, biologically-influenced cognitive abilities that he called \"fluid intelligence\" and the applied, experience-based and learning-enhanced ability that he called \"crystallized intelligence.\" Thus, for example, a mechanic who has worked on airplane engines for 30 years might have a huge amount of \"crystallized\" knowledge about the workings of these engines, while a new young engineer with more \"fluid intelligence\" might focus more on the theory of engine functioning, these two types of abilities might complement each other and work together toward achieving a goal. As a foundation for this distinction, Cattell developed the investment-model of ability, arguing that crystallized ability emerged from the investment of fluid ability in a particular topic of knowledge. He contributed to cognitive epidemiology with his theory that crystallized knowledge, while more applied, could be maintained or even increase after fluid ability begins to decline with age, a concept used in the National Adult Reading Test (NART). Cattell constructed a number of ability tests, including the Comprehensive Ability Battery (CAB) that provides measures of 20 primary abilities, and the Culture Fair Intelligence Test (CFIT) which was designed to provide a completely non-verbal measure of intelligence like that now seen in the Raven's. The Culture Fair Intelligence Scales were intended to minimize the influence of cultural or educational background on the results of intelligence tests.\n\nIn regard to statistical methodology, in 1960 Cattell founded the Society of Multivariate Experimental Psychology (SMEP), and its journal \"Multivariate Behavioral Research\", in order to bring together, encourage, and support scientists interested in multi-variate research. He was an early and frequent user of factor analysis (a statistical procedure for finding underlying factors in data). Cattell also developed new factor analytic techniques, for example, by inventing the Scree Test, which uses the curve of latent roots to judge the optimal number of factors to extract. He also developed a new factor analysis rotation procedure—the \"Procrustes\" or non-orthogonal rotation, designed to let the data itself determine the best location of factors, rather than requiring orthogonal factors. Additional contributions include the Coefficient of Profile Similarity (taking account of shape, scatter, and level of two score profiles); P-technique factor analysis based on repeated measurements of a single individual (sampling of variables, rather than sampling of persons); dR-technique factor analysis for elucidating change dimensions (including transitory emotional states, and longer-lasting mood states); the Taxonome program for ascertaining the number and contents of clusters in a data set; the Rotoplot program for attaining maximum simple structure factor pattern solutions. As well, he put forward the Dynamic Calculus for assessing interests and motivation, the Basic Data Relations Box (assessing dimensions of experimental designs), the group syntality construct (\"personality\" of a group), the triadic theory of cognitive abilities, the Ability Dimension Analysis Chart (ADAC), and Multiple Abstract Variance Analysis (MAVA), with \"specification equations\" to embody genetic and environmental variables and their interactions.\n\nAs Lee J. Cronbach at Stanford University stated:\n\n\"The thirty-year evolution of the data box and related methodology fed on bold conjecture, self-criticism, unbridled imagination, rational comparison of models in the abstract, and responsiveness to the nasty surprises of data. The story epitomizes scientific effort at its best. (p.240)\"\n\nRaymond Cattell was born on 20 March 1905 in Hill Top, West Bromwich, a small town in England near Birmingham where his father's family was involved in inventing new parts for engines, automobiles and other machines. Thus, his growing up years were a time when great technological and scientific ideas and advances were taking place and this greatly influenced his perspective on how a few people could actually make a difference in the world. He wrote: \"1905 was a felicitous year in which to be born. The airplane was just a year old. The Curies and Rutherford in that year penetrated the heart of the atom and the mystery of its radiations, Alfred Binet launched the first intelligence test, and Einstein, the theory of relativity.\n\nWhen Cattell was about five years old, his family moved to Torquay, Devon, in the south-west of England, where he grew up with strong interests in science and spent a lot of time sailing around the coastline. He was the first of his family (and the only one in his generation) to attend university: in 1921, he was awarded a scholarship to study chemistry at King's College, London, where he obtained a B.Sc.(Hons) degree with 1st-class honors at age 19 years. While studying physics and chemistry at university he learned from influential people in many other fields, who visited or lived in London. He writes: \"[I] browsed far outside science in my reading and attended public lectures - Bertrand Russell, H. G. Wells, Huxley, and Shaw being my favorite speakers (the last, in a meeting at King's College, converted me to vegetarianism - for almost two years!\" (p.64).\n\nAs he observed first-hand the terrible destruction and suffering after World War I, Cattell was increasingly attracted to the idea of applying the tools of science to the serious human problems that he saw around him. He stated that in the cultural upheaval after WWI, he felt that his laboratory table had begun to seem too small and the world's problems so vast. Thus, he decided to change his field of study and pursue a Ph.D in psychology at King's College, London, which he received in 1929. The title of his Ph.D dissertation was \"The Subjective Character of Cognition and Pre-Sensational Development of Perception\". His Ph.D advisor at King's College, London, was Francis Aveling, D.D., D.Sc., Ph.D., D.Litt., who was also President of the British Psychological Society from 1926 until 1929. In 1939, Cattell was honored for his outstanding contributions to psychological research with conferral of the prestigious higher doctorate - D.Sc. from the University of London.\n\nWhile working on his Ph.D., Cattell had accepted a position teaching and counseling in the Department of Education at Exeter University. He ultimately found this disappointing because there was limited opportunity to conduct research. Cattell did his graduate work with Charles Spearman, the English psychologist and statistician who is famous for his pioneering work on assessing intelligence, including the development of the idea of a general factor of intelligence termed \"g\". During his three years at Exeter, Cattell courted and married Monica Rogers, whom he had known since his boyhood in Devon and they had a son together. She left him about four years later. Soon afterward he moved to Leicester where he organized one of England's first child guidance clinics. It was also in this time period that he finished his first book \"Under Sail Through Red Devon,\" which described his many adventures sailing around the coastline and estuaries of South Devon and Dartmoor.\n\nIn 1937, Cattell left England and moved to the United States when he was invited by Edward Thorndike to come to Columbia University. When the G. Stanley Hall professorship in psychology became available at Clark University in 1938, Cattell was recommended by Thorndike and was appointed to the position. However, he conducted little research there and was \"continually depressed.\" Cattell was invited by Gordon Allport to join the Harvard University faculty in 1941. While at Harvard he began some of the research in personality that would become the foundation for much of his later scientific work.\n\nDuring World War II, Cattell served as a civilian consultant to the U.S. government researching and developing tests for selecting officers in the armed forces. Cattell returned to teaching at Harvard and married Alberta Karen Schuettler, a Ph.D student in mathematics at Radcliffe College. Over the years, she worked with Cattell on many aspects of his research, writing, and test development. They had three daughters and a son. They divorced in 1980.\n\nHerbert Woodrow, professor of psychology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, was searching for someone with a background in multivariate methods to establish a research laboratory. Cattell was invited to assume this position in 1945. With this newly created research professorship in psychology, he was able to obtain sufficient grant support for two Ph.D. associates, four graduate research assistants, and clerical assistance.\n\nOne reason that Cattell moved to the University of Illinois was because the first electronic computer built and owned entirely by a US educational institution - \"Illinois Automatic Computer\" - was being developed there, which made it possible for him to complete large-scale factor analyses. Cattell founded the Laboratory of Personality Assessment and Group Behavior. In 1949, he and his wife founded the Institute for Personality and Ability Testing (IPAT). Karen Cattell served as director of IPAT until 1993. Cattell remained in the Illinois research professorship until he reached the university's mandatory retirement age in 1973. A few years after he retired from the University of Illinois he built a home in Boulder, Colorado, where he wrote and published the results of a variety of research projects that had been left unfinished in Illinois.\n\nIn 1977, Cattell moved to Hawaii, largely because of his love of the ocean and sailing. He continued his career as a part-time professor and adviser at the University of Hawaii. He also served as adjunct faculty of the Hawaii School of Professional Psychology. After settling in Hawaii he married Heather Birkett, a clinical psychologist, who later carried out extensive research using the 16PF and other tests. During the last two decades of his life in Hawaii, Cattell continued to publish a variety of scientific articles, as well as books on motivation, the scientific use of factor analysis, two volumes of personality and learning theory, the inheritance of personality, and co-edited a book on functional psychological testing, as well as a complete revision of his highly renowned \"Handbook of Multivariate Experimental Psychology\".\n\nCattell and Heather Birkett Cattell lived on a lagoon in the southeast corner of Oahu where he kept a small sailing boat. Around 1990, he had to give up his sailing career because of navigational challenges resulting from old age. He died at home in Honolulu on 2 February 1998, at age 92 years. He is buried in the Valley of the Temples on a hillside overlooking the sea. His will provided for his remaining funds to build a school for underprivileged children in Cambodia. He was an agnostic.\n\nWhen Cattell entered the fledgling field of psychology in the 1920s, he felt that the domain of personality was dominated by speculative ideas that were largely intuitive with little/no empirical research basis. Cattell accepted E.L. Thorndike’s empiricist viewpoint that \"If something actually did exist, it existed in some amount and hence could be measured.\".\n\nCattell found that constructs used by early psychological theorists tended to be somewhat subjective and poorly defined. For example, after examining over 400 published papers on the topic of \"anxiety\" in 1965, Cattell stated: \"The studies showed so many fundamentally different meanings used for anxiety and different ways of measuring it, that the studies could not even be integrated.\". Early personality theorists tended to provide little objective evidence or research bases for their theories. Cattell wanted psychology to become more like other sciences, whereby a theory could be tested in an objective way that could be understood and replicated by others. In Cattell's words:\n\nEmeritus Professor Arthur B. Sweney, an expert in psychometric test construction, summed up Cattell’s methodology:\n\nAlso, according to Sheehy (2004, p. 62),\n\nIn 1994, Cattell was one of 52 signatories on \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence,\" an editorial written by Linda Gottfredson and published in the \"Wall Street Journal\" which declared the consensus of the signing scholars on IQ research following the publication of the book \"The Bell Curve\".\n\nRather than pursue a \"univariate\" research approach to psychology, studying the effect that a single variable (such as \"dominance\") might have on another variable (such as \"decision-making\"), Cattell pioneered the use of multivariate experimental psychology (the analysis of several variables simultaneously). He believed that behavioral dimensions were too complex and interactive to fully understand variables in isolation. The classical univariate approach required bringing the individual into an artificial laboratory situation and measuring the effect of one particular variable on another - also known as the \"bivariate\" approach, while the multivariate approach allowed psychologists to study the whole person and their unique combination of traits within a natural environmental context. Multivariate experimental research designs and multivariate statistical analyses allowed for the study of \"real-life\" situations (e.g., depression, divorce, loss) that could not be manipulated in an artificial laboratory environment.\n\nCattell applied multivariate research methods across several intrapersonal psychological domains: the trait constructs (both normal and abnormal) of personality, motivational or dynamic traits, emotional and mood states, as well as the diverse array of cognitive abilities. In each of these domains, he considered there must be a finite number of basic, unitary dimensions that could be identified empirically. He drew a comparison between these fundamental, underlying (source) traits and the basic dimensions of the physical world that were discovered and presented, for example, in the periodic table of chemical elements.\n\nIn 1960, Cattell organized and convened an international symposium to increase communication and cooperation among researchers who were using multivariate statistics to study human behavior. This resulted in the foundation of the Society of Multivariate Experimental Psychology (SMEP) and its flagship journal, \"Multivariate Behavioral Research\". He brought many researchers from Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, and South America to work in his lab at the University of Illinois. Many of his books involving multivariate experimental research were written in collaboration with notable colleagues.\n\nCattell noted that in the hard sciences such as chemistry, physics, astronomy, as well as in medical science, unsubstantiated theories were historically widespread until new instruments were developed to improve scientific observation and measurement. In the 1920s, Cattell worked with Charles Spearman who was developing the new statistical technique of factor analysis in his effort to understand the basic dimensions and structure of human abilities. Factor analysis became a powerful tool to help uncover the basic dimensions underlying a confusing array of surface variables within a particular domain.\n\nFactor analysis was built upon the earlier development of the correlation coefficient, which provides a numerical estimate of the degree to which variables are \"co-related\". For example, if \"frequency of exercise\" and \"blood pressure level\" were measured on a large group of people, then intercorrelating these two variables would provide a quantitative estimate of the degree to which \"exercise\" and \"blood pressure\" are directly related to each other. Factor analysis performs complex calculations on the correlation coefficients among the variables within a particular domain (such as cognitive ability or personality trait constructs) to determine the basic, unitary factors underlying the particular domain.\n\nWhile working at the University of London with Spearman exploring the number and nature of human abilities, Cattell postulated that factor analysis could be applied to other areas beyond the domain of abilities. In particular, Cattell was interested in exploring the basic taxonomic dimensions and structure of human personality. He believed that if exploratory factor analysis were applied to a wide range of measures of interpersonal functioning, the basic dimensions within the domain of social behavior could be identified. Thus, factor analysis could be used to discover the fundamental dimensions underlying the large number of surface behaviors, thereby facilitating more effective research.\n\nAs noted above, Cattell made many important innovative contributions to factor analytic methodology, including the Scree Test to estimate the optimal number of factors to extract, the \"Procrustes\" oblique rotation strategy, the Coefficient of Profile Similarity, P-technique factor analysis, dR-technique factor analysis, the Taxonome program, as well the Rotoplot program for attaining maximum simple structure solutions. In addition, many eminent researchers received their grounding in factor analytic methodology under the guidance of Cattell, including Richard Gorsuch, an authority on exploratory factor analytic methods.\n\nIn order to apply factor analysis to personality, Cattell believed it was necessary to sample the widest possible range of variables. He specified three kinds of data for comprehensive sampling, to capture the full range of personality dimensions:\n\nIn order for a personality dimension to be called \"fundamental and unitary,\" Cattell believed that it needed to be found in factor analyses of data from all three of these measurement domains. Thus, Cattell constructed measures of a wide range of personality traits in each medium (L-data; Q-data; T-data). He then conducted a programmatic series of factor analyses on the data derived from each of the three measurement media in order to elucidate the dimensionality of human personality structure.\n\nWith the help of many colleagues, Cattell's factor-analytic studies continued over several decades, eventually finding at least 16 primary trait factors underlying human personality (comprising 15 personality dimensions and one cognitive ability dimension: Factor B in the 16PF). He decided to name these traits with letters (A, B, C, D, E...) in order to avoid misnaming these newly discovered dimensions, or inviting confusion with existing vocabulary and concepts. Factor-analytic studies conducted by many researchers in diverse cultures around the world have provided substantial support for the validity of these 16 trait dimensions.\n\nIn order to measure these trait constructs across different age ranges, Cattell constructed (Q-data) instruments that included the Sixteen Personality Factor Questionnaire (16PF) for adults, the High School Personality Questionnaire (HSPQ) - now named the Adolescent Personality Questionnaire (APQ), and the Children’s Personality Questionnaire (CPQ). Cattell also constructed the (T-data) Objective Analytic Battery (OAB) that provided measures of the 10 largest personality trait factors extracted factor analytically, as well as objective (T-data) measures of dynamic trait constructs such as the Motivation Analysis Test (MAT), the School Motivation Analysis Test (SMAT), and the Children's Motivation Analysis Test (CMAT). In order to measure trait constructs within the abnormal personality sphere, Cattell constructed the Clinical Analysis Questionnaire (CAQ) Part 1 of the CAQ measures the 16PF factors, While Part 2 measures an additional 12 abnormal (psychopathological) personality trait dimensions. The CAQ was later re-badged as the PsychEval Personality Questionnaire (PEPQ). Also within the broadly conceptualized personality domain, Cattell constructed measures of mood states and transitory emotional states, including the Eight State Questionnaire (8SQ) In addition, Cattell was at the forefront in constructing the Central Trait-State Kit.\n\nFrom the very beginning of his academic career, Cattell reasoned that, as in other scientific domains like intelligence, there might be an additional, higher level of organization within personality which would provide a structure for the many primary traits. When he factor analyzed the intercorrelations of the 16 primary trait measures themselves, he found no fewer than five \"second-order\" or \"global factors\", now commonly known as the Big Five. These second-stratum or \"global traits\" are conceptualized as broad, overarching domains of behavior, which provide meaning and structure for the primary traits. For example, the \"global trait\" Extraversion has emerged from factor-analytic results comprising the five primary trait factors that are interpersonal in focus.\n\nThus, \"global\" Extraversion is fundamentally defined by the primary traits that are grouped together factor analytically, and, moving in the opposite direction, the second-order Extraversion factor gives conceptual meaning and structure to these primary traits, identifying their focus and function in human personality. These two levels of personality structure can provide an integrated understanding of the whole person, with the \"global traits\" giving an overview of the individual’s functioning in a broad-brush way, and the more-specific primary trait scores providing an in-depth, detailed picture of the individual’s unique trait combinations (Cattell's \"Depth Psychometry\" p. 71).\n\nResearch into the 16PF personality factors has shown these constructs to be useful in understanding and predicting a wide range of real life behaviors. Thus, the 16 primary trait measures plus the five major second-stratum factors have been used in educational settings to study and predict achievement motivation, learning or cognitive style, creativity, and compatible career choices; in work or employment settings to predict leadership style, interpersonal skills, creativity, conscientiousness, stress-management, and accident-proneness; in medical settings to predict heart attack proneness, pain management variables, likely compliance with medical instructions, or recovery pattern from burns or organ transplants; in clinical settings to predict self-esteem, interpersonal needs, frustration tolerance, and openness to change; and, in research settings to predict a wide range of behavioral proclivities such as aggression, conformity, and authoritarianism.\n\nCattell’s programmatic multivariate research which extended from the 1940s through the 70's resulted in several books that have been widely recognized as identifying fundamental taxonomic dimensions of human personality and motivation and their organizing principles:\n\nThe books listed above document a programmatic series of empirical research studies based on quantitative personality data derived from objective tests (T-data), from self-report questionnaires (Q-data), and from observer ratings (L-data). They present a theory of personality development over the human life span, including effects on the individual’s behavior from family, social, cultural, biological, and genetic influences, as well as influences from the domains of motivation and ability.\n\nAs Hans Eysenck at the Institute of Psychiatry, London remarked:\n\"Cattell has been one of the most prolific writers in psychology since Wilhelm Wundt...According to the Citation Index, he is one of the ten most cited psychologists, and this is true with regard to not only citations in social science journals but also those in science journals generally. Of the two hundred and fifty most cited scientists, only three psychologists made the grade, namely, Sigmund Freud in the first place, then the reviewer [H.J. Eysenck], and then Cattell. Thus there is no question that Cattell has made a tremendous impression on psychology and science in general.\"\n\nIn 1997, at 92 years of age, Cattell was chosen by the American Psychological Association (APA) for its \"Gold Medal Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Science of Psychology.\" Before the medal was presented, Barry Mehler launched a publicity campaign against Cattell through his nonprofit foundation ISAR accusing Cattell of being sympathetic to racist and fascist ideas and claiming that \"it is unconscionable to honor this man whose work helps to dignify the most destructive political ideas of the twentieth century\". A blue-ribbon committee was convened by the APA to investigate the legitimacy of the charges. However, before the committee reached a decision, Cattell issued an open letter to the committee saying \"I abhor racism and discrimination based on race. Any other belief would be antithetical to my life’s work\" and saying that \"it is unfortunate that the APA announcement ... has brought misguided critics' statements a great deal of publicity.\" He refused the award, withdrawing his name from consideration. The \"blue ribbon\" committee was therefore disbanded and Cattell, in failing health, died months later.\n\nWilliam H. Tucker and Barry Mehler have criticized Cattell based on his writings about evolution and political systems. They argue that throughout his life Cattell adhered to a mixture of eugenics and a new religion of his devising which he eventually named Beyondism and proposed as \"a new morality from science\". Cattell argues that a diversity of cultural groups is necessary to allow that evolution. Cattell entertains controversial speculations about natural selection based not only on the separation of groups but also the restriction of \"external\" assistance to \"failing\" groups from \"successful\" ones, and by arguing for \"educational and voluntary birth control measures\"— i.e., by separating groups and limiting excessive growth of failing groups. John Gillis, biographer of Cattell has argued that, although some of Cattell's views are indeed controversial, Tucker and Mehler have exaggerated and misrepresented his views by taking quotes out of context, and by referring back to outdated writings.\n\nIn analysing the accusations that resulted in withholding of Cattell's Gold Medal Award, Magrietha Lotz (2008, p. 136) concluded that: \"Cattell was deliberately misquoted...and labelled as an academic racist. The views he developed in the 1930s were common among his contemporaries when beliefs in racial differences were widely held, and should not be distorted by judgment according to today's standards. General scientific observations should not be read as personal moral statements. He was particularly wronged during the 1990s by certain writers (William H. Tucker and Barry Mehler) who picked out certain references referring to Germany, Hitler or genocide and quoted them out of context.\" Moreover, in 1984 Cattell had stated unambiguously that: \"The only reasonable thing is to be noncommittal on the race question – that's not the central issue, and it would be a great mistake to be sidetracked into all the emotional upsets that go on in discussions of racial differences. We should be quite careful to dissociate eugenics from it – eugenics' real concern should be with individual differences.\" Indeed, contrary to the allegations of racism, Richard L. Gorsuch (1997) wrote (in a letter to the American Psychological Foundation, para. 4) that: \"The charge of racism is 180 degrees off track. [Cattell] was the first one to challenge the racial bias in tests and to attempt to reduce that problem.\"\n\nRaymond Cattell's papers and books are the 7th most highly referenced in peer-reviewed psychology journals over the past century. His 25 most cited publications are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14780626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14780626", "title": "Richard Scotton", "text": "Richard Scotton\n\nRichard \"Dick\" Bailey Scotton AO is an Australian health economist. He is best known as the original author of the Australian Medicare program - Australia's first and current system of publicly funded universal health care. \n\nScotton was educated at the University of Sydney where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Economics.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1970, Scotton worked with John Deeble to formulate a universal health care system for Australia. At that time, Australia was coming to the end of more than two decades of conservative government by the Liberal-National Coalition under Prime Ministers Robert Menzies, Harold Holt John Gorton and William McMahon. The Liberal and National parties opposed such a system, and so the plan was initially rejected. However, the Government's attitude changed in 1972 with the election of the reformist Whitlam Labor Government, who had campaigned promising to implement free universal health care in Australia for the first time. Scotton then entered the public service to implement his Medicare (known at the time as Medibank) program as chairman of the Health Insurance Commission (1973–1976). He worked closely with Social Security Minister Bill Hayden as a Special Advisor for several years.\n\nHe spent part of his career at the University of Melbourne. Scotton then held senior administrative positions in the Health Commission of Victoria and the Victorian Accident Compensation Commission. He then returned to academia as a professorial fellow in health economics at Monash University's Centre for Health Program Evaluation. In 2000, Scotton retired from full-time work.\n"}
{"id": "7518081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7518081", "title": "Robert Coles (psychiatrist)", "text": "Robert Coles (psychiatrist)\n\nRobert Coles (born October 12, 1929) is an American author, child psychiatrist, and professor emeritus at Harvard University.\n\nBorn Martin Robert Coles in Boston, Massachusetts on October 12, 1929, to Philip Coles, an immigrant from Leeds, England, United Kingdom, and Sandra Young Coles, originally from Sioux City, Iowa. Robert Coles attended Boston Latin School where he played tennis, ran track, and edited the school literary magazine. He entered Harvard College in 1946, where he studied English literature and helped to edit the undergraduate literary magazine, \"The Harvard Advocate\". He graduated magna cum laude and earned Phi Beta Kappa honors in 1950. He originally intended to become a teacher or professor, but as part of his senior honors thesis, he interviewed the poet and physician William Carlos Williams, who promptly persuaded him to go into medicine.\n\nHe studied medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, graduating in 1954. After residency training at the University of Chicago in Chicago, Illinois (the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine), Coles moved on to psychiatric residencies at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts, and McLean Hospital in Belmont, Massachusetts (the two hospitals are affiliates of Harvard University and the Harvard University Medical School in Cambridge, Massachusetts). Knowing that he was to be called into the U.S. Armed Forces under the \"doctors' draft,\" Coles joined the Air Force in 1958 and was assigned the rank of captain. His field of specialization was psychiatry, his intention eventually to sub-specialize in child psychiatry.\n\nHe served as chief of neuropsychiatric services at Keesler Air Force base in Biloxi, Mississippi, and made frequent trips into New Orleans. During these trips he witnessed scenes of racial conflict, many of them related to the desegregation of the public schools. He wrote a series of articles for \"The Atlantic Monthly\", profiling Ruby Bridges, one of the first black children to desegregate a public elementary school in New Orleans and therefore a target of daily public protests, intimidation, and even death threats. As a child psychiatrist, he had volunteered to support and counsel Ruby and her family during this difficult period. These articles led to his first book, \"Children of Crisis: A Study of Courage and Fear\", and ultimately to his decision to develop that book into a series of books documenting how children and their parents deal with profound change, a series that won him the Pulitzer prize in 1973. In 1995 he returned to his original material and wrote \"The Story of Ruby Bridges\", a popular children's book, published by Scholastic Corporation.\n\nHe has authored more than eighty books and 1300 articles, nearly all of them centrally concerned with human moral, spiritual, and social sensibility and reasoning, mainly in children but also in adults, writers especially, including the novelist Walker Percy (who dedicated his final novel, \"The Thanatos Syndrome\", to Coles), the poet William Carlos Williams, writer James Agee, novelist Flannery O'Connor, and others, such as Dorothy Day, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Simone Weil, and Dorothy Lange.\n\nUpon his honorable discharge from the Air Force, Coles returned briefly to Boston. On July 4, 1960, he married Jane Hallowell, a graduate of Radcliffe College and a high school teacher of English and history. After Coles finished his child psychiatry training at the Children's Hospital, the Coleses returned to the South, living in New Orleans. In addition to continuing work with children in New Orleans and Atlanta, Coles began writing non-technical articles for a number of national publications, including \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"The New Republic\", \"Saturday Review\", and \"The Times of London\". By 1969, Coles was writing in-depth profiles for \"The New Yorker\" and contributing regular columns to \"The New Republic\", \"New Oxford Review\", \"America\", and the \"American Poetry Review\".\n\nAt the urging of Erik Erikson, in 1963 Coles became affiliated with the University Health Services at Harvard as a research psychiatrist. Gradually, he began teaching in the Harvard Medical School, eventually becoming Professor of Psychiatry and Medical Humanities in 1977. He has taught courses in various schools across Harvard University, including the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the Business School, the Law School, the Extension School, and the School of Education, where in 1995 he was given a newly established position as James Agee Professor of Social Ethics. He came to teach courses not only in the moral, spiritual, and social sensibilities of children but also in those phenomena generally, especially as expressed in stories, both literary fictions and oral narratives, and as affected by conditions of poverty and social injustice. As a longtime professor, Coles has influenced generations of Harvard undergraduates and graduate students. In 2007, Harvard University named an annual Call of Service lecture in honor of Coles.\n\nHis work has been recognized with numerous awards, including election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1971, a Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction in 1973 for his series of books \"Children of Crisis\", a MacArthur Award in 1981, the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1998, and the National Humanities Medal in 2001. He later co-founded the magazine \"DoubleTake\", which documented the lives of ordinary people with photographs, articles, essays, poetry, and short stories. The magazine won several awards, including the 1998 National Magazine Award for Editorial Excellence in the category of General Excellence.\n\nMany of Coles' works draw heavily on quoted conversations with ordinary people, as well as insights from prominent thinkers and leaders — often people Coles has encountered personally in his career — such as William Carlos Williams, Dorothy Day, Walker Percy, William Shawn, Anna Freud, Paul Tillich, Erik Erikson, and Robert F. Kennedy. Starting with the \"Children of Crisis\" series, Coles's approach to his subjects involves a difficult balancing act at the heart of the documentary enterprise. His methods combine techniques of participant observation (tape recordings, field notes, drawings, etc.), clinical interpretation, academic social research, and literary narrative. Coles has never been diffident about the economic, social, and racial injustices he has observed in the field. He is a spokesperson for his subjects, a sounding board for their public voices. Coles describes his own literary methods and goals as an effort \"to blend poetic insight with a craft and unite ultimately the rational and the intuitive, the aloof stance of the scholar with the passion and affection of the friend who cares and is moved.\" (\"The Mind's Fate\", p. 10)\n\nIn a 2003 review of Coles' book on musician Bruce Springsteen, music critic David Hajdu questioned the truthfulness and accuracy of Coles's reports of the opinions on Springsteen held by various people, suggesting that some source quotations may have been fabricated:\n\nWhile \"the facts of his subjects' lives are indisputable,\" one Coles' scholar cautions that \"some distortion is perhaps inevitable given Coles' method and purposes and expectations of his readers. The portraits are not written as true documentary accounts of the lives of his subjects but are presented as composite views of many [subjects] designed to highlight certain features of American social life neglected in other accounts of the poor. And if they are not true, neither are they false. In some respects . . . they have the status of fiction based very firmly on the transcription of life. They examine the range of human possibility beyond category and social stereotype. . . .\" (Steven Weiland, \"Intellectual Craftsmen: Ways and Works in American Scholarship,\" New Jersey: Transactions Publishers (1991): 86; and \"Handing One Another Along Literature and Social Reflection\", 2010.)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57578050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57578050", "title": "Rubble (cat)", "text": "Rubble (cat)\n\nRubble (born ) is a domestic cat owned by Michelle Foster of Exeter, Devon, England. Foster acquired the cat as a kitten on or near her 20th birthday. Rubble, a Maine Coon-type cat, achieved the age of 30 in May 2018 and is currently the world's oldest living cat.\n\nFoster stated that, \"He's a lovely cat, although he has got a little grumpy in his old age. I got him just before my 20th birthday when he was a kitten. Rubble suffers from high blood pressure so he needs regular medication and City Vets have been a huge help in keeping him healthy.\" Foster further stated, \"He has plenty of life left in him yet, but I don't think we will go down the Guinness World Record route as I am not sure he would like lots of people coming to see him or a fuss being made out of him. He is old now and would not like too much attention or be hassled. We would prefer if he was just left to live out his old age in peace.\" Rubble's milestone 30th birthday was celebrated with a party at his veterinary physician's office. He feasted on his favorite food and treats and received a free check-up.\n\nThe previous oldest living cat in the Britain—Nutmeg from Tyne and Wear—passed away in September 2017. Rubble has now matched the age of Scooter, a Siamese who also achieved the age of 30 and was recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records. Scooter died in his 30th year.\n\nThe oldest cat in world history according to the record books was Creme Puff, who was born on August 3, 1967, and lived until August 6, 2005—a total of 38 years and 3 days.\n"}
{"id": "46586626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46586626", "title": "Salivary gland atresia", "text": "Salivary gland atresia\n\nSalivary gland atresia is congenital blockage or absence of the orifice of a major salivary gland duct or part of the duct itself.\n\nIt is a very rare condition. The submandibular salivary gland duct is usually involved, having failed to cannulate during embryological development. The condition first becomes apparent in the first few days after birth where a submandibular swelling caused by a retention cyst is noticed.\n"}
{"id": "43791617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43791617", "title": "Social cognition and interaction training", "text": "Social cognition and interaction training\n\nSocial cognition and interaction training (SCIT) is a cognitive behavioral therapy to improve social cognition with the aim of improving downstream social functioning with people suffering of schizophrenia.\n\nIn schizophrenia, the ability to adaptively infer the thoughts and feelings of others (i.e., social cognition) is strongly associated with community functioning.\n\n"}
{"id": "40249304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40249304", "title": "Songshan Cultural and Creative Park", "text": "Songshan Cultural and Creative Park\n\nThe Songshan Cultural and Creative Park (SSCC; ) is a multifunctional park in Xinyi District, Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nThe park was initially constructed in 1937 as a tobacco factory under the name under the Japanese government. After Japan ceded Taiwan in 1945, the Taiwan Provincial Monopoly Bureau took over the factory and renamed it as the Songshan Tobacco Plant of the Taiwan Provincial Monopoly Bureau. In 1947, the plant was renamed again as Songshan Tobacco Plant of the Taiwan Tobacco and Wine Bureau.\n\nThe factory ceased to produce cigarettes in 1998 for concern over urban planning, tobacco and liquor marketing regulatory changes and the decline in tobacco demand.\n\nIn 2001, the Taipei City Government designed the defunct tobacco factory as Taipei's 99th historic site and converted it into a park comprising city-designated historic sites, historical structures and architectural highlights. Together with Taipei Dome, the site is known as Taipei Cultural and Sporting Complex.\n\nFor more efficient reuse of space, in 2011 the former factory was turned into a creative park by its current name to provide venues for diverse cultural and creative exhibitions and performances.\n\nThe park has the following aims:\n\n\nThe park consists of:\n\nThere are five warehouses, from number 1 until 5. The workers manufactured cigarettes on the second floor of the plant. After packaging the rolled cigarettes, the boxes were sent directly to warehouse no. 2 using conveyor channel, through the turntable, directed to the platforms for delivery, hence reducing manual labor.\n\nThe inspection room served as the place for employees and officers had to pass through when reporting for or getting off work. It had stationed guards on duty.\n\nThe Taiwan Design Museum building used to house the office for supervisors and officers of the tobacco plant. The office had also conference rooms and rest areas for guests. Ordinary plant employees were not allowed to access the building.\n\nThe tobacco factory consists of three segments, which are North, South and East. The building has characteristics of long open hallways with no dividing walls. The first floor mainly comprises columns to support the weight of the machines on the second floor.\n\nEnclosed by the tobacco factory three sections, the garden has a fountain that is surrounded by sculptures of naked women emerging from their baths.\n\nThe building which now houses the TMSK restaurant used to be the machine repair plant building. The machine repair plant was exclusively responsible for the reparation and maintenance of the tobacco producing machines.\n\nThe boiler room acted as the power source for the tobacco plant. Coal was burnt here to provide power for the plant. The chimneys were used to expel the smoke generated.\n\nThere used to be 1,200 employees working at the plant at the same time. The tobacco plant had an industrial village concept, in which it included facilities such as cafeterias, shower facilities, dormitories, hospital, food mall, dining rooms, entertainment rooms and nursery. The nursery room served as a place for the infants of the employees to rest and play.\n\nFor fire extinguishing, ventilation and hydrosphere purposes, a large lotus pond was installed. It is now revamped as an ecology pond where children can enjoy the sounds of frogs and insects and experience the beauty of ecology.\n\nThe Taiwan Design Center (TDC; ) is a national design center established to promote the development of the cultural and creative industry in which it acts as the integrated platform to promote creative design. It was established in 2003 and become officially operational in 2004.\n\nThe main mission of TDC is to upgrade original creativity of Taiwanese designers, promote international design exchange, upgrade market competitiveness of Taiwanese industries, help enterprises build up their own brand, raise value-added of such industries and tell the world that the era of \"Designed in Taiwan\" has come.\n\nThe park is accessible within walking distance northeast from Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hall Station or North West from Taipei City Hall Station of the Taipei Metro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41203338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41203338", "title": "Table of muscles of the human body/End", "text": "Table of muscles of the human body/End\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44706664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44706664", "title": "Tech4Good awards", "text": "Tech4Good awards\n\nThe Tech4Good awards, organized by the British charity AbilityNet and BT Group, honor individuals and organizations whose work improves human lives through the use of IT. The 2016 winners included Wayfindr, Neighbourly, eWATERPay, UglyMugs, MyWard, BBC micro:bit, Maureen Johnston, and Arnav Sharma. \n\n"}
{"id": "44757940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44757940", "title": "The Cigarette Papers", "text": "The Cigarette Papers\n\nThe Cigarette Papers is a 1996 non-fiction book by Stanton A. Glantz (editor), John Slade (editor), Lisa A. Bero (editor), Peter Hanauer (editor), Deborah E. Barnes (editor), and C. Everett Koop (Foreword), analyzing leaked documents that for the first time proved \"tobacco companies had long known the grave dangers of smoking, and did nothing about it.\" In May 1994, 4,000 pages of internal tobacco industry documents were sent to the office of Professor Stanton Glantz, a well-known anti-smoking activist, at the University of California, San Francisco. The source of these \"cigarette papers\" was identified only as Mr. Butts. The documents provide an inside look at the internal activities of American tobacco company, Brown & Williamson, over more than 30 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1517921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1517921", "title": "Time for Timer", "text": "Time for Timer\n\nTime for Timer is a title for a short series of public service announcements broadcast on Saturday mornings on the ABC television network starting in the early 1970s. The animated spots featured Timer, a tiny cartoon character who represents the sense of \"time\" in the human body. Timer is in charge of when a person felt it was time to eat, time to sleep, etc. He carries a large pocket watch inside of him, which would often set off an alarm whenever something was about to happen. \n\nUsually wearing a bow tie and top hat, Timer looks somewhat like a little yellow blob with long arms and legs, and a face. Timer also has limited magical powers, such as instant transportation, which he often uses to exit his host body from time to time if things got too exhausting. A wise-cracker as well as a song-and-dance man, Timer promotes healthy eating and personal hygiene for children, using clever songs and animation.\n\nLike ABC's \"The Bod Squad\" series, the segments never carried official titles, but are referred to by memorable catch phrases in the songs' lyrics. Perhaps most memorable was \"I Hanker for a Hunk of Cheese\" in which Timer, recast as a cowboy with a thick Western accent, suggests \"wagon wheels,\" sandwiches made with cheese slices and crackers as an easy and nutritious snack. (When Timer prepares one on a kitchen counter, he rolls it down the counter on its edge and tells us, \"Look! A wagon wheel!\") Others included \"You Are What You Eat\" (a simplified explanation of nutrients and how the body uses them), \"Quickie Breakfast\" (leftovers and other premade foods as an alternative for kids who do not have time, or are unable, to cook breakfast), and \"Sunshine on a Stick\" (how to make ice pops with fruit juice, an ice tray, and toothpicks).\n\n\"Time for Timer\" ran concurrently and interchangeably for many years with ABC's other educational spots, primarily \"The Bod Squad\" and \"Schoolhouse Rock!\". They generally appeared between cartoon programs on the hour and half hour marks interspersed with regular commercials.\n\nTimer's voice was provided by actor Lennie Weinrib. The spots themselves were produced by the cartoon studio DePatie-Freleng Enterprises. During the final five seconds or so of each segment (sometimes the first 5 seconds), the following end credit appeared on the bottom of the screen:\n\nTimer first appeared in the 1973 \"ABC Afterschool Special\" \"The Incredible, Indelible, Magical, Physical Mystery Trip\", where he was voiced by Len Maxwell. Timer also appeared in the 1974 \"ABC Afterschool Special\" \"The Magical Mystery Trip Through Little Red's Head\" (now voiced by Lennie Weinrib). In Mystery Trip, he was working inside the body of a man named \"Uncle Carl\". In Little Red, he was working inside the (Teenaged) Red Riding Hood.\n\n"}
{"id": "24764580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24764580", "title": "William E. Bentley", "text": "William E. Bentley\n\nWilliam E. Bentley is the Robert E. Fischell Distinguished Professor of Engineering and founding Director of the Fischell Institute for Biomedical Devices located in the A. James Clark School of Engineering at the University of Maryland. He was previously the Chair of the Fischell Department of Bioengineering, where he assisted in establishing the department and provided leadership that led to its nationally ranked status.\n\nDr. Bentley is also appointed in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of Maryland, College Park and the Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research. He has served on advisory committees and panels for the NIH, NSF, DOD, DOE, USDA, and several state agencies. He has mentored over 25 Ph.D.s, some of whom are academics at: Cornell University (x2), University of Colorado, Clemson University, University of Connecticut, Tufts University, Postech (Korea), and National Tsing Hua University (Taiwan).\n\nDr. Bentley received his undergraduate (BS, '82) and Master of Engineering degrees ('83) from Cornell University and his Ph.D. ('89) from the University of Colorado, Boulder, all in chemical engineering.\n\nDr. Bentley worked for the International Paper Company, on alternative fuels and recovery process improvement.\n\nAt Maryland since 1989, Dr. Bentley has focused his research on the development of molecular tools that facilitate the expression of biologically active proteins, having authored over 200 related archival publications. Recent interests are on deciphering and manipulating signal transduction pathways, including those of bacterial communication networks, for altering cell phenotype.\n\nHe was an integral component in the creation of the Bioprocess Scale-Up Facility (BSF) at the University of Maryland. While associated with the BSF, the facility performed contract research projects for MedImmune (Synagis) and Martek (Life's DHA) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1552902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1552902", "title": "World Water Day", "text": "World Water Day\n\nWorld Water Day is an annual UN observance day (always on 22 March) that highlights the importance of freshwater. The day is used to advocate for the sustainable management of freshwater resources. World Water Day is celebrated around the world with a variety of events. These can be educational, theatrical, musical or lobbying in nature. The day can also include campaigns to raise money for water projects. The first World Water Day, designated by the United Nations, was commemorated in 1993. Each year more and more countries celebrate World Water Day.\n\nUN-Water selects a theme for each year. The theme for 2018 was \"Nature for Water\" to encourage people to \"look for the answer in nature\". The theme encouraged the use of nature-based solutions to water-related challenges. For example, reducing floods, droughts, water pollution and protecting ecosystems could be solved using natural means, which nature uses, rather than man-made approaches.\n\nPrevious themes for the years 2015 to 2017 were \"Water and Sustainable Development\", \"Water and Jobs'\" and \"Why waste water?\" The latter theme included attention to both wastewater and the value of reclaiming water. The focus on universal access to clean water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) is in line with the targets of Sustainable Development Goal 6.\n\nThe UN World Water Development Report is released each year around World Water Day.\n\nWorld Water Day is an international observance day. The intention is to inspire people around the world to learn more about water-related issues and to take action to make a difference.\n\nThe global water crisis is one of the issues that calls for action. The challenges include water scarcity, water pollution, inadequate water supply and the lack of sanitation for billions of people in less developed countries. The day brings to light the inequality of access to WASH services and the need to assure the human right to water and sanitation.\n\nUN-Water coordinates activities with UN member organisations who share an interest in that year's theme. In 2016 the \"Water and Jobs\" theme led to a collaboration with the International Labour Organization. UN-Water mobilizes organizations of all kinds to action, whether globally or locally.\n\nThe World Water Day website announces events, activities and volunteer opportunities. In 2018, stories are about \"Nature and water from around the world\" in keeping with the theme of \"Nature for water\".\n\nOrganizations active in the WASH sector use the day to raise public awareness, get media attention for water issues and inspire action. Activities have included releasing publications and films, as well as organizing round tables, seminars and expositions. Non-governmental organizations such as UNICEF, WaterAid and Water and Sanitation for the Urban Poor (WSUP). \n\nEnd Water Poverty, a global civil society coalition with 250 partner organizations, sponsors Water Action Month each year and offers an event-planning guidebook.\n\nThe UN World Water Development Report (WWDR) is released each year on World Water Day. Information related to the annual theme gives decision-makers tools to implement sustainable use of water resources.\n\nMore and more initiatives in schools and universities are educating people about the importance of conserving and managing water resources. For example, Michigan State University held a contest for \"best World Water Day poster\" in 2017. Primary school children in the Philippines participated in a \"My School Toilet\" contest in 2010. \n\nIn 2016, the World Water Day campaign and related publications reached millions of people through social media, dedicated websites and other channels: The UN-Water annual report states that social media engagement (hashtag #WorldWaterDay) had a maximum potential reach of 1.6 billion people worldwide in 2016. Over 500 events in 1000 countries were registered on the World Water Day website that year.\n\nThis day was first formally proposed in Agenda 21 of the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro. In December 1992, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution A/RES/47/193 by which 22 March of each year was declared World Day for Water.\n\nIn 1993, the first World Water Day was observed.\n\nThe theme in 2018 explores how nature can be used to overcome the water challenges of the 21st century. This could be in the form of nature-based solutions to reduce floods, droughts and water pollution and protect ecosystems. Restoring wetlands, implementing constructed wetlands, green roofs, green infrastructure, planting new forests, reconnecting rivers to floodplains, are some examples. Each of these use natural processes to rebalance the water cycle and improve human health and livelihoods.\n\nIn 2017, the theme was \"Why Waste Water?\" which is about reducing and reusing wastewater. The theme is a play on words as it relates to both: the aspect of wasting water and issues around wastewater, namely treatment and reuse. Wastewater is a valuable resource to help achieve the Sustainable Development Goal Number 6. One aspect of Target 6.3 is to halve the proportion of untreated wastewater and also to increase the recycling and safe reuse of water across the globe. After appropriate treatment, wastewater can be used for a variety of purposes. Industry, for example, can reuse water in cooling towers and agriculture can reuse water for irrigation.\n\nAn example activity for 2017 was the Wikipedia edit-a-thon organized by members of the Sustainable Sanitation Alliance on 19–21 March 2017. The purpose of the activity was to improve water and sanitation related content on Wikipedia just ahead of World Water Day. The goal was to improve the quantity and quality of sanitation information available on Wikipedia for the use of teachers, journalists and the general public.\n\nThe 2016 theme of \"Better water, better jobs\" highlighted the correlation between water and job creation, both directly and indirectly by water sources around the globe. As water scarcity becomes more of a reality, industries heavily dependent on water like textiles and agriculture are at risk of increased costs, which threatens salaries and jobs. Increased costs may then be passed on to consumers.\n\nThe theme also highlights how an abundance of quality water can change people's jobs and lives for the better. The 2016 celebration created recognition for those working to improve water quality and availability, and the need for many to transition to other and better jobs. Three out of four of the jobs worldwide are water-dependent. Water shortages and lack of access may limit economic growth in the years to come, according to the 2016 United Nations World Water Development Report.\n\nWith the theme ‘Water and Sustainable Development’, the year 2015 provided an important opportunity to consolidate and build upon the previous World Water Days to highlight water's role in the sustainable development agenda. The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were to have been achieved by 2015, so the year lent itself to discussions of the post-MDG period and aspirations for water and sustainable development. With the launch of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), world Water Day gave specific emphasis to SDG 6, which calls for water and sanitation for all, by encouraging discussion of how SDG 6 could be achieved by 2030.\n\nThe 2014 theme of Water and Energy emphasized the close linkages and interdependence of water and energy and brought attention to the water-energy nexus. About 8% of the energy generated globally is used for pumping, treating and transporting water to various consumers. Furthermore, generating and transmitting energy requires the use of water resources, particularly for hydroelectric, nuclear, and thermal energy sources.\n\nThe aim of that year's theme was to facilitate the development of policies and crosscutting frameworks that would bridge ministries and sectors. It was meant to lead the way to energy security and sustainable water use in a green economy.\n\nJournalists from eleven countries in Asia met in Tokoyo from 20–21 March 2014 to discuss the importance of water. The event included discussion panels on topics such as privatisation of services, integration between water and energy and modernisation of water services. The journalists also developed four joint stories and 20 individual story ideas for a network of Asian journalists writing on water (and energy) in social media.\n\nIn the years prior to 2014, the annual themes were as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
