{"id": "52749828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52749828", "title": "1978 in Croatian television", "text": "1978 in Croatian television\n\nThis is a list of Croatian television related events from 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "49112922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49112922", "title": "1999 in Albania", "text": "1999 in Albania\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1999 in Republic of Albania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24802983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24802983", "title": "Anglo-French Convention of 1882", "text": "Anglo-French Convention of 1882\n\nThe Anglo-French Convention of 1882 was signed on 28 June 1882 between the United Kingdom and France. It confirmed the territorial boundaries between Guinea and Sierra Leone around Conakry and Freetown. However, it was never fully ratified by the French Chamber of Deputies although it was officially recognized by the British Foreign Office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2307263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2307263", "title": "Apedemak", "text": "Apedemak\n\nApedemak or Apademak was a lion-headed warrior god worshiped by the Meroitic peoples inhabiting Nubia. A number of Meroitic temples dedicated to this deity are known from the Western Butana region: Naqa, Meroe, and Musawwarat es-Sufra, which seems to be his chief cult place. In the temple of Naqa built by the rulers of Meroe Apedemak was depicted as a three-headed leonine god with four arms, and as a snake with a lion head. However, he is usually depicted as a man with a lion head.\n\nApedemak was considered the war god of Kush. The Kushites believed that Apedemak brought victories to their armies and defeated their enemies. When Kushite pharaohs carried out military campaigns, they often claimed the support and companionship of Apedemak.\n\n"}
{"id": "2797431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2797431", "title": "Asian psychology", "text": "Asian psychology\n\nAsian psychology is a branch of cultural psychology that studies psychological concepts as they relate to Asian culture. Psychologists studying these issue are often aligned with cross-cultural psychology.\n\nAs pointed out by Shinobu Kitayama, professor of psychology and Director of the Culture & Cognition Program at the University of Michigan, culture can have a profound impact on the way people think about and perceive the world around them. East Asians may think differently from Westerners (See also, Cultural differences in self-concept and Self-construal.) Kitayama proposed that unlike the traditional American point-of-view which accentuates the importance of one's self and makes oneself independent, an Asian will instead feel more interdependent.\n\nAsian psychologists wanted to have an expanding role in the science of psychology, but felt limited due to the heavy western influence. Predominant figures in Asian psychology are Quicheng Jing in China, Hiroshi Azuma in Japan, Ku-Shu Yang in Taiwan, and Durganand Sinha in India.\n\nThe \"Asian American Journal of Psychology\"® is the official publication of the Asian American Psychological Association and is dedicated to research, practice, advocacy, education, and policy within Asian American psychology. The Journal publishes empirical, theoretical, methodological, and practice oriented articles and book reviews covering topics relevant to Asian American individuals and communities, including prevention, intervention, training, and social justice. Particular consideration is given to empirical articles using quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methodology.\n\nThe \"Asian Journal of Social Psychology\" stimulates research and encourages academic exchanges for the advancement of social psychology in Asia. It publishes theoretical and empirical papers by Asian scholars and those interested in Asian cultures and societies.\nThe \"Asian Journal of Social Psychology\" is partly funded by a Grant-in-Aid for Publication of Scientific Research Results from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science.\n\nAAPA was founded in 1972 and is the largest organization of faculty, students, researchers, and practitioners interested in Asian American psychology. Our members and initiatives have positively impacted psychological treatment, education, training, research, policy and social justice advocacy, through research dissemination, organizational policy statements and collaboration with other psychological organizations for publications, training initiatives, and disseminating resources for serving Asian American communities.\n\nOver the years, the contribution to the study of psychology was done mostly by US European psychologists, however, in recent years this has been changing. More Asian countries than ever before are contributing to psychology at an ever increasing rate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28332550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28332550", "title": "Az imposztor", "text": "Az imposztor\n\nAz imposztor is a Hungarian play, written by György Spiró. It was first produced in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "50716267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50716267", "title": "Balthasar Glättli", "text": "Balthasar Glättli\n\nBalthasar Glättli (born 12 February 1972) is a Swiss politician of the Green Party of Switzerland. \n\nGlättli joined the Green Party of Switzerland in 1991 and was elected as board member of the cantonal section in Zürich. Between 1998 and 2011 he represented Zürich-Seefeld in the parliament of the city of Zürich. He was elected to the National Council in the Swiss federal election in October 2011, and re-elected in October 2015. Since December 2013, he is President of the Green parliamentarian Group. From 2004 to 2008 Glättli was co-president of the cantonal GPS party, in co-operation with Marlies Bänziger.\n\nGlättli presides the \"Mieterverband Deutschschweiz\", the Swiss German section of the union of tenants, and is vice-president of the Swiss national Mieterverband. He is member of various NGO's like Erklärung von Bern, Amnesty International Switzerland and Greenpeace Switzerland.\n\nBalthasar Glättli graduated Maturität at the gymnasium in Wetzikon in 1991, and studied philosophy, linguistics and German literature at the University of Zurich. Glättli provides a web design and consulting company, is married to the Swiss politician Min Li Marti. They live with their daughter in Zürich-Wipkingen.\n\n"}
{"id": "24143380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24143380", "title": "Bird of Happiness (toy)", "text": "Bird of Happiness (toy)\n\nBird of Happiness () is the traditional North Russian wooden toy, carved in the shape of a bird. It was invented by Pomors, the inhabitants of the coasts of the White and Barents Seas. The Bird of Happiness is made without glue or other fasteners, by carving thin petals for the bird’s wings and tail and then using a special method of spreading and curving them, also found in other products of the North Russian handicraft. The amulet is usually made of pine, fir, spruce, or Siberian cedar. It is suspended inside a house, guarding the family hearth and well-being.\n\nWood chip bird is a carved wooden item with thin wavy plumage of the wings. The plumage and tail of these birds were usually made of split pine, that is why the birds were called \"wood chip\". The place of the wooden toy origin in the form of a bird is the Arkhangelsk region. It’s also called a \"Pomor dove\".\n\nAccording to legends wood chip bird brings many benefits to the house. In addition, this bird is the symbol of the sun. The bird was hung in the house as the hearth and well-being keeper. These birds used to hang in almost every home of a farmer in the icon corner, above the dining table, opposite the Russian stove or over a child's cradle. From the movement of warm air they revolved in a circle.\n\nThe history of the bird: In the far North in Arkhangelsk province, there lived a hunter. Winter in the North is long and cold: snowstorm, blizzard and freezing cold. This year the winter stayed for a long time and cooled the hunter’s house completely and the hunter's younger son fell ill. He was ill for a long time, got very thin and pale; neither doctors nor wise men could help him. The hunter grieved. He felt sorry for the little boy. The hunter asked his son: “What do you want?” The boy whispered quietly: “I want to see the sun...”. And where can you get the sun in the North? The hunter was lost in thoughts, heated the furnace to warm the house. But the fire is not the sun.\n\nSuddenly the hunter noticed a splinter that was glowing in the fire. A smile lit up his face; and he knew how to help his son.\nThe hunter was working all the night. He carved a wood bird, made wood chips, decorated them with fretwork. He hung the bird above his son’s bed, and the bird suddenly came to life: it began spinning and moving in the hot air that was coming from the furnace.\nThe boy woke up, smiled and exclaimed: “Well, here is the sun!”\nFrom that day on, the child began to recover rapidly. So, miraculous power was attributed to the wood chip bird and it was called the “Holy spirit”, the guardian of children, the symbol of family happiness.\n\n"}
{"id": "50430186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50430186", "title": "Centaur and Nymph", "text": "Centaur and Nymph\n\nCentaur and Nymph (German: Kentaur und Nymphe) is an 1888 bronze sculpture by Reinhold Begas, installed in the Kolonnadenhof outside the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "6326683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6326683", "title": "Clown (Afroditi Frida song)", "text": "Clown (Afroditi Frida song)\n\n\"Clown\" (Greek script: \"Κλόουν\") was the Greek entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1988, performed in Greek by Afroditi Frida. It is generally regarded as the country's most embarrassing Eurovision entry in the history of the competition as of 2018.\n\nThe song was performed fourteenth on the night, following Denmark's Kirsten & Søren with \"Ka' du se hva' jeg sa'?\" and preceding Norway's Karoline Krüger with \"For vår jord\". At the close of voting, it had received 10 points, placing 17th in a field of 21.\n\nThe song is sung from the perspective of a clown, with Frida expressing her joy at amusing others. She sings, however, that \"I have a heart\" and makes mention of the fact that she is required to be positive in her job even when she does not feel that way.\n\nIt was succeeded as Greek representative at the 1989 Contest by Mariana with \"To Diko Sou Asteri\".\n"}
{"id": "9576969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9576969", "title": "Cvet z juga", "text": "Cvet z juga\n\n\"Cvet z juga\" (\"Flower of the south\") is a \"popera\" song by Alenka Gotar, and represented Slovenia at the Eurovision Song Contest 2007. The song is about a girl who bids farewell to her boyfriend and gives him a white flower (\"Moj beli cvet\" - \"My white flower\") as a reminder.\n\nOn the night of the semi-final, the song performed twenty-fifth, following Belgium's KMG's with \"Love Power\" and preceding Turkey's Kenan Doğulu and \"Shake It Up Şekerim\". At the close of voting, it had received 140 points, placing seventh in a field of twenty eight, and bringing Slovenia to the final for the first time since 2003.\n\nOn the night of the final, the song performed seventh, following Macedonia's Karolina Gočeva with \"Mojot svet\" and preceding Hungary's Magdi Rúzsa and \"Unsubstantial Blues\". At the close of voting, it had received 66 points, placing fifteenth in a field of twenty four.\n\nIt was succeeded as Slovene representative at the 2008 contest by Rebeka Dremelj and \"Vrag naj vzame\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50220362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50220362", "title": "Diana (Felderhoff)", "text": "Diana (Felderhoff)\n\nDiana is an outdoor 1898 bronze sculpture of Diana by Reinhold Felderhoff, cast in 1910 and installed in the Kolonnadenhof outside the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "7764430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7764430", "title": "Directorate-General for Informatics", "text": "Directorate-General for Informatics\n\nThe Directorate-General for Informatics is a Directorate-General of the European Commission.\n\nThe mission of the DG Informatics is to define the IT strategy of the Commission and to provide a modern and high-performance information technology and telecommunications infrastructure.\n\nThe current Director-General is Gertrud Ingestad.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28130497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28130497", "title": "Durrës railway station", "text": "Durrës railway station\n\nDurrës railway station is the main railway station in Durrës, Albania. The station is connected to other cities in Albania including Vlorë and the capital Tirana.\n"}
{"id": "9820126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9820126", "title": "EU–Japan Fest", "text": "EU–Japan Fest\n\nThe is the cultural exchange between the European Union and Japan that is arranged with the help of the , a Japanese organization that since 1992 has worked to create such exchanges between the year's Cultural Capital of Europe and Japan. The \"Fest\" aims to support both traditional and innovative culture.\n\nThe EU–Japan Fest Japan Committee is a non-profit organization financed by European governments, the Agency for Cultural Affairs and other Japanese government institutions, and donations. Its office is in Kōjimachi, Chiyoda, Tokyo.\n\nThe program for Patras in 2006 included exhibitions of architecture and photography, and dance and musical performances.\n\nPublications include \"In-Between,\" a fourteen-volume set of photographs of Europe by Japanese photographers, and \"European Eyes on Japan,\" a seven-volume set of photographs of Japan by European photographers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3311740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311740", "title": "Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency", "text": "Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency\n\nThe Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency or EACEA is an agency of the European Union located in Brussels, Belgium. It manages parts of the Union's programs in education, culture, and audiovisual fields.\n\nEACEA is part of the European Commission and is supervised by the following Directorates-General of the European Commission:\n\nEACEA manages the following programmes:\n\nEACA has 10 operational units (A, B, C) and 3 horizontal units (R):\n\n"}
{"id": "20145748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20145748", "title": "Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 1986", "text": "Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 1986\n\nFinland was present at the Eurovision Song Contest 1986, held in Bergen, Norway.\n\nThe Finnish national final to select their entry was held on 22 February at the Yle's Studios in Helsinki, and was hosted by journalist Kari Lumikero. The votes of an \"expert jury\" decided the winner.\n\nThe winning entry was \"Päivä kahden ihmisen,\" performed and composed by Kari Kuivalainen. The voting was rather tight and Kuivalainen won by only one point over the second-placing entrant.\n\nA=Black Mike, B=Pontus Dammert, C=Markku Fagerlund, D=Pekka Helin, E=Raila Kinnunen, F=Kristina Klockars, G=Jari-Pekka Koikkalainen, H=Tero Liete, I=Kaisu Liuhala, J=Erkki Melakoski, K=Raija Sarmanto\n\nKuivalainen performed nineteenth on the night of the contest, following Denmark and preceding Portugal. Before performing in Bergen, one line of the song was changed, and the title \"Päivä kahden ihmisen\" (\"Day of two people\") was changed to \"Never the End.\" At the close of the voting it had received 22 points, placing 15th in a field of 20 competing countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "13489621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13489621", "title": "Foch Line", "text": "Foch Line\n\nThe Foch Line was a temporary demarcation line between Poland and Lithuania proposed by the Entente in the aftermath of World War I. The line was proposed by Marshal of France Ferdinand Foch and was accepted by the Conference of Ambassadors in 1919. With small adjustments the line formed the basis of the inter-war Polish-Lithuanian border. \nThe line left Vilnius (Wilno) on the Polish side. After World War II only its westernmost part, close to the town of Suwałki, remains true to the original concept of the line.\n\nFor a map with the Foch Line and some context see:\n"}
{"id": "38207891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38207891", "title": "Gary Dell'Abate", "text": "Gary Dell'Abate\n\nGary Dell'Abate (born March 14, 1961), also known by the nickname Baba Booey, is an American radio producer who has been the executive producer of \"The Howard Stern Show\" since 1984. His autobiography, \"They Call Me Baba Booey\", was released on November 2, 2010.\n\nDell'Abate was born and raised in Uniondale, New York, on Long Island. He comes from a large Italian-American family. His father, Salvatore Dell'Abate, was a salesman for Häagen-Dazs ice cream, while his mother was a food demonstrator at Macy's in New York City and Fortunoff on Long Island. Dell'Abate attended Adelphi University, receiving the Richard F. Clemo Award his senior year, and he interned at several radio stations including WLIR. While working with Roz Frank, a traffic reporter on WNBC, he came into contact with Howard Stern.\n\nDell'Abate has worked on \"The Howard Stern Show\" since September 4, 1984: originally on 66 WNBC, then syndicated through K-Rock in New York City, and later broadcast on Sirius XM Radio. Dell'Abate was originally hired for $150 a week, with duties including getting Stern's lunch and scheduling guests for the show.\n\nPreviously nicknamed \"Boy Gary\" (Howard called his college roommate Dr. Lew Weinstein \"boy\" when giving an order; preceded by \"Boy\" Lee Davis at WNBC). Dell'Abate's \"Baba Booey\" moniker originated on \"The Howard Stern Show\" on July 26, 1990, after telling a story of his prized collection of animation cels. In the course of discussing a Quick Draw McGraw cel he might purchase, he misstated the name of McGraw's sidekick Baba Looey as \"Baba Booey.\" As is typical of the show, the rest of the cast \"goofed\" on his mistake, becoming especially merciless since he was mulling the purchase of a cel of a character without even knowing the character's correct name. Speaking to Howard at the end of the show, Dell'Abate said, \"I think we've taken this as far as it will go.\" Howard Stern replied, \"Gary, we've only scratched the surface of this.\" Dell'Abate remains Baba Booey to this day. Eventually, he titled his autobiography \"They Call Me Baba Booey\". Dell'Abate later recalled that when he watched the cartoon as a child, Quick Draw would often call Baba Looey \"Baba Boy,\" usually in frantic moments (\"Help me, Baba Boy!\"). Quick Draw's drawn-out pronunciation of \"boy\" often sounded like \"booey,\" which led Dell'Abate to think that the character's name was actually \"Baba Booey.\"\n\n\"Baba Booey\" as a term has become a mantra for fans of \"The Howard Stern Show\" and is often used during crank calls to live network television or radio broadcasts; for example, a call made by a prank caller nicknamed Maury From Brooklyn to ABC News during the low-speed police chase of O. J. Simpson's Ford Bronco through the streets of Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, signed off with \"And Baba Booey to Y'all!\" Sportscaster Al Michaels explained to anchor Peter Jennings the significance of the phrase. In the 2012 Olympics, Freestyle wrestler Jake Herbert yelled \"Baba Booey\" as the camera panned over Team USA during the opening ceremony. Since then it has become a trend in sporting events where concentration and silence are expected, for spectators to shout \"Baba Booey!\" as in the case of the PGA Tour as soon as a golfer has completed his swing.\n\nDell'Abate has been married since 1992 to Mary Dell'Abate (née Caracciolo). They have two sons, Lucas and Jackson.\n\nAfter Dell'Abate's brother Steven died of AIDS in January 1991, Dell'Abate became a supporter of LIFEbeat The Music Industry Fights AIDS and served as the charity's president.\n\nDell'Abate wrote a biography titled \"They Call Me Baba Booey\" which was a \"New York Times\" best seller. It debuted at #6 on the \"NY Times\" Best Seller list in November 2010. In the book, Dell'Abate tells the story of his brother's death from AIDS, his mother's struggle with depression as well as his rise to Executive Producer of \"The Howard Stern Show\".\n\nHe was featured in the May 2007 issue of \"Sound and Vision\" magazine where his home theater was profiled.\n\nDell'Abate is an avid New York Mets fan, and, on May 9, 2009, he threw out the ceremonial first pitch at a Mets game. The pitch did not go well, as it landed down the third-base line and hit an umpire. Dell'Abate is also a fan of the New York Islanders hockey team, and was interviewed for the 2012 book, \"Dynasty: The Oral History of the New York Islanders, 1972–1984\", by author Greg Prato. Dell'Abate's thoughts and memories of following the Islanders (he also interned for the television station that broadcast the team's games at the time, SportsChannel) are featured throughout the book, as well as several photos of Dell'Abate with Islanders players at a Stanley Cup victory parade in 1980.\n\nOn Monday, March 14, 2011, Dell'Abate was appointed to the Greenwich, Connecticut Board of Parks and Recreation on a 119–64 vote margin.\n\n"}
{"id": "22304787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22304787", "title": "Heritage trails in Hong Kong", "text": "Heritage trails in Hong Kong\n\nSeveral heritage trails have been designed in Hong Kong:\n\nTrails designed by the Antiquities and Monuments Office of the Leisure and Cultural Services Department:\n\nOther trails include:\n\nMilitary history trails\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54108025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54108025", "title": "History of Japanese foreign relations", "text": "History of Japanese foreign relations\n\nHistory of Japanese foreign relations dêals with the international relations in terms of diplomacy, economics and political affairs from about 1850 to 2000. The kingdom was Virtually isolated before the 1850s, with limited contacts through Dutch traders. The Meiji Restoration was a political revolution that installed a new leadership that was eager to borrow Western technology and organization. The government in Tokyo carefully monitored and controlled outside interactions. Japanese delegations to Europe brought back European standards which were widely imposed across the government and the economy. Trade flourished, as Japan rapidly industrialized. \n\nEuropean-style imperialism and colonialism were borrowed, as in the late 19th century Japan defeated China, and acquired numerous colonies, including Formosa and Okinawa. The rapid advanced in Japanese military prowess stunned the world in 1904-1905 when it decisively defeated Russia and gained recognition as a world power. Imperialism continued as it took control of Korea, and began moving into Manchuria. Its only military alliance was with Great Britain. 1902-1923. In the First World War, it joined the Allies, and seized many German possessions in the Pacific and in China. Japan put heavy pressure on China, but China resisted. \n\nAlthough the political system was formally democratic, the Army increasingly seized control in Japan. Indeed in the 1930s, separatist Army elements in Manchuria largely shaped foreign-policy. The League of Nations criticized Japan's takeover of Manchuria in 1931, so it withdrew. It joined the Axis alliance with Germany, But there was little close cooperation between the two nations until 1943. Japan opened a full-scale war in China, in 1937, taking control of the major cities and economic centers with a long record of atrocities. Two puppet regimes were nominally in charge in China and Manchuria. Military confrontations with the Soviet Union were disappointing to Japan, and it turned its attention to the south. American economic and financial pressures, joined by Britain and the Netherlands, climaxed in the cut off of vitally needed oil supplies in 1941. Japan declared war, and in three months scored spectacular successes against the United States, Britain and the Netherlands, as well as continuing the war with China. The Japanese economy could not support the large-scale war effort, especially with the rapid buildup of the American navy. By 1944, Japan was heavily on the defensive, as its Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere collapsed, its navy was sunk, and American bombing started to devastate major Japanese cities. The final blow came in August 1945 with two American atomic bombs and the Russian invasion. Japan surrendered, and was occupied by the Allies, or more particularly by the United States. Its political and economic system was rebuilt on the basis of greater democracy, no military capability, and a weakening of traditional monopolistic corporations.\n\nJapan was a very minor player in international affairs in the late 1940s, but its economy revived in part as a supply base for the Korean War. Non-involvement became the central focus of Japanese foreign policy, together with very rapid growth of its industrial exports. By the 1990s, Japan, with the second largest economy in the world behind the United States, reached a peak, and leveled off economically. It retained very close relations with the United States, which basically provided it with military protection. South Korea, China, and other countries in the Western Pacific traded on a very large scale with Japan, but still deeply resented the wartime atrocities.\n\nBeginning with the Meiji Restoration of 1868, which established a new, centralized regime, Japan set out to \"gather wisdom from all over the world\" and embarked on an ambitious program of military, social, political, and economic reforms that transformed it within a generation into a modern nation-state and major world power. The Meiji oligarchy was aware of Western progress, and \"learning missions\" were sent abroad to absorb as much of it as possible. The Iwakura Mission, the most important one, was led by Iwakura Tomomi, Kido Takayoshi and Ōkubo Toshimichi, contained forty-eight members in total and spent two years (1871–73) touring the United States and Europe, studying every aspect of modern nations, such as government institutions, courts, prison systems, schools, the import-export business, factories, shipyards, glass plants, mines, and other enterprises. Upon returning, mission members called for domestic reforms that would help Japan catch up with the West.\n\nEuropean powers imposed a series of \"unequal treaties\" in the 1850s and 1860s that gave privileged roles to their nationals in specially designated treaty ports. Representative was the 1858 Treaty with the United States, called the \"Harris Treaty.\" It opened the ports of Kanagawa and four other Japanese cities to trade, And provided for the exchange of diplomats. It granted extraterritoriality to foreigners, So that they govern themselves and were not under the control of Japanese courts or authorities. There were numerous trading stipulations favorable to the Americans. The Dutch, British and Russians quickly followed suit with their own treaties, backed up by their own powerful naval forces. The unequal treaties were part of the series imposed on non-Western countries, such as Persia 1857, Turkey 1861, Siam 1855, and China 1858. The inequality was not quite as severe as suffered by these other countries, but it rankled so much that ending the inequality became a priority that was finally achieved in the 1890s. The humiliation was not as bad as China suffered, but it energized anti-foreign forces inside Japan. On the other hand, the new treaties, provided for tariffs on imports from Europe; imports multiplied by a factor of nine between 1860 and 1864, and the tariff revenue provided major financial backing for the Meiji regime. Exports of tea, silk and other Japanese products multiplied by a factor of four in four years, dramatically stimulating the local economy while causing galloping inflation that drove up the price of rice. The Meiji leaders sketched a new vision for a modernized Japan's leadership role in Asia, but they realized that this role required that Japan develop its national strength, cultivate Japanese nationalism among the population, and carefully craft policies toward potential enemies. The skills and tricks of negotiation had to be learned, so they could compete on an equal basis with experienced Western diplomats. No longer could Westerners be seen as \"barbarians\"; In time, Japan formed a corps of professional diplomats and negotiators.\n\nStarting in the 1860s Japan rapidly modernized along Western lines, adding industry, bureaucracy, institutions and military capabilities that provided the base for imperial expansion into Korea, China, Taiwan and islands to the south. It saw itself vulnerable to aggressive Western imperialism unless it took control of neighboring areas. It took control of Okinawa and Formosa. Japan's desire to control Taiwan, Korea and Manchuria, led to the first Sino-Japanese War with China in 1894–1895 and the Russo-Japanese War with Russia in 1904–1905. The war with China made Japan the world's first Eastern, modern imperial power, and the war with Russia proved that a Western power could be defeated by an Eastern state. The aftermath of these two wars left Japan the dominant power in the Far East with a sphere of influence extending over southern Manchuria and Korea, which was formally annexed as part of the Japanese Empire in 1910.\n\nOkinawa island is the largest of the Ryukyu Islands, and paid tribute to China from the late 14th century. Japan took control of the entire Ryukyu island chain in 1609 and formally incorporated it into Japan in 1879.\nFriction between China and Japan arose from the 1870s from Japan's control over the Ryukyu Islands, rivalry for political influence in Korea and trade issues. Japan, having built up a stable political and economic system with a small but well-trained army and navy, easily defeated China in the First Sino-Japanese War of 1894. Japanese soldiers massacred the Chinese after capturing Port Arthur on the Liaotung Peninsula. In the harsh Treaty of Shimonoseki of April 1895, China recognize the independence of Korea, and ceded to Japan Formosa, the Pescadores Islands, and the Liaotung Peninsula. China further paid an indemnity of 200 million silver taels, opened five new ports to international trade, and allowed Japan (and other Western powers) to set up and operate factories in these cities. However, Russia, France, and Germany saw themselves disadvantaged by the treaty and in the Triple Intervention forced Japan to return the Liaotung Peninsula in return for a larger indemnity. The only positive result for China came when those factories led the industrialization of urban China, spinning off a local class of entrepreneurs and skilled mechanics.\n\nThe island of Formosa (Taiwan) had an indigenous population when Dutch traders in need of an Asian base to trade with Japan and China arrived in 1623. The Dutch East India Company (VOC) built Fort Zeelandia. They soon began to rule the natives. China took control in the 1660s, and sent in settlers. By the 1890s there were about 2.3 million Han Chinese and 200,000 members of indigenous tribes. After its victory in the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894–95, the peace treaty ceded the island to Japan. It was Japan's first colony.\n\nJapan expected far more benefits from the occupation of Taiwan than the limited benefits it actually received. Japan realized that its home islands could only support a limited resource base, and it hoped that Taiwan, with its fertile farmlands, would make up the shortage. By 1905, Taiwan was producing rice and sugar and paying for itself with a small surplus. Perhaps more important, Japan gained Asia-wide prestige by being the first non-European country to operate a modern colony. It learned how to adjust its German-based bureaucratic standards to actual conditions, and how to deal with frequent insurrections. The ultimate goal was to promote Japanese language and culture, but the administrators realized they first had to adjust to the Chinese culture of the people. Japan had a civilizing mission, and it opened schools so that the peasants could become productive and patriotic manual workers. Medical facilities were modernized, and the death rate plunged. To maintain order, Japan installed a police state that closely monitored everyone. In 1945, Japan was stripped of its empire and Taiwan was returned to China.\n\nIn 1895, Japan felt robbed of the spoils of her decisive victory over China by the Western Powers (including Russia), which revised the Treaty of Shimonoseki. The Boxer Rebellion of 1899–1901 saw Japan and Russia as allies who fought together against the Chinese, with Russians playing the leading role on the battlefield. \n\nIn the 1890s Japan was angered at Russian encroachment on its plans to create a sphere of influence in Korea and Manchuria. Japan offered to recognize Russian dominance in Manchuria in exchange for recognition of Korea as being within the Japanese sphere of influence. Russia refused and demanded Korea north of the 39th parallel to be a neutral buffer zone between Russia and Japan. The Japanese government decided on war to stop the perceived Russian threat to its plans for expansion into Asia. After negotiations broke down in 1904, the Japanese Navy opened hostilities by attacking the Russian Eastern Fleet at Port Arthur, China, in a surprise attack. Russia suffered multiple defeats by Japan. Tsar Nicholas II kept on with the expectation that Russia would win decisive naval battles, and when that proved illusory he fought to preserve the dignity of Russia by averting a \"humiliating peace\". The war concluded with the Treaty of Portsmouth, mediated by US President Theodore Roosevelt. The complete victory of the Japanese military surprised world observers. The consequences transformed the balance of power in East Asia, resulting in a reassessment of Japan's recent entry onto the world stage. It was the first major military victory in the modern era of an Asian power over a European one. \n\nIn 1905, the Empire of Japan and the Korean Empire signed the Eulsa Treaty, which brought Korea into the Japanese sphere of influence as a protectorate. The Treaty was a result of the Japanese victory in the Russo-Japanese War and Japan wanting to increase its hold over the Korean Peninsula. The Eulsa Treaty led to the signing of the 1907 Treaty two years later. The 1907 Treaty ensured that Korea would act under the guidance of a Japanese resident general and Korean internal affairs would be under Japanese control. Korean Emperor Gojong was forced to abdicate in favour of his son, Sunjong, as he protested Japanese actions in the Hague Conference. Finally in 1910, the Annexation Treaty was signed, formally annexing Korea to Japan.\n\nPrince Itō Hirobumi (1841-1909) was prime minister for most of the period 1885-1901 and dominated foreign policy. He strengthened diplomatic ties with Western powers including Germany, the United States and especially Great Britain through the Anglo-Japanese Alliance of 1905. In Asia he oversaw the short, victorious war against China 1894-95. He negotiated Chinese surrender on terms aggressively favourable to Japan, including the annexation of Taiwan and the release of Korea from the Chinese tribute system. He also gained control of the Liaodong Peninsula with Darien and Port Arthur, but was immediately forced by Russia, Germany and France acting together in the Triple Intervention to give that back to China. In the Anglo-Japanese Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1894, he succeeded in removing some of the onerous unequal treaty clauses that had plagued Japanese foreign relations since the start of the Meiji period. His major breakthrough was the Anglo-Japanese Alliance signed in 1902. It was a diplomatic milestone, it saw an end to Britain's splendid isolation. The alliance was renewed and expanded in scope twice, in 1905 and 1911, before its demise in 1921. It was officially terminated in 1923.\n\nItō sought to avoid a Russo-Japanese War through the policy of \"Man-Kan kōkan\" – surrendering Manchuria to the Russian sphere of influence in exchange for the acceptance of Japanese hegemony in Korea. A diplomatic tour of the United States and Europe brought him to Saint Petersburg in November 1901, where he was unable to find compromise on this matter with Russian authorities. Soon the government of Katsura Tarō elected to abandon the pursuit of \"Man-Kan kōkan\", and tensions with Russia continued to escalate towards war.\n\nPrince Katsura Tarō (1848 – 1913) was an unpopular prime minister in his three terms stretching off and on from 1901 to 1911. During his first term (1901-1906) Japan emerged as a major imperialist power in East Asia. In terms of foreign affairs, it was marked by the Anglo-Japanese Alliance of 1902 and victory over Russia in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905. During his tenure, the Taft–Katsura agreement with the U.S. acknowledged Japanese hegemony over Korea. His second term (1908-1911) was noteworthy for the Japan–Korea Annexation Treaty of 1910.\nThe Japanese modelled their industrial economy closely on the most advanced European models. They started with textiles, railways, and shipping, expanding to electricity and machinery. the most serious weakness was a shortage of raw materials. Industry ran short of copper and coal became a net importer. A deep flaw in the aggressive military strategy was a heavy dependence on imports including 100 percent of the aluminum, 85 percent of the iron ore, and especially 79 percent of the oil supplies. it was one thing to go to war with China or Russia, but quite another to be in conflict with the key suppliers, especially the United States Britain and the Netherlands, which supply the oil and iron. \n\nJapan joined the Allies of the First World War in order to make territorial gains. Together with the British Empire it divided up Germany's scattered in the Pacific and on the China coast; they did not amount to very much. The other Allies pushed back hard against Japan's efforts to dominate China through the Twenty-One Demands of 1915. Its occupation of Siberia proved unproductive. Japan's wartime diplomacy and limited military action had produced few results, and at the Paris Versailles peace conference. at the end of the war, Japan frustrated in its ambitions. At the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, its demands for racial parity, and an increasing diplomatic isolation. The 1902 alliance with Britain was not renewed in 1922 because of heavy pressure on Britain from Canada and the United States. In the 1920s Japanese diplomacy was rooted in an largely liberal democratic political system, and favored internationalism. By 1930, however, Japan was rapidly reversing itself, rejecting democracy at home, as the Army seized more and more power, and rejecting internationalism and liberalism. By the late 1930s it had joined the Axis military alliance with Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy.\n\nJapan put heavy pressure on China in 1915, especially in the \"Twenty-One Demands.\" The U.S. helped China push back, thus moderating the pressure. As the Russian pro-Allied state collapsed into Bolshevik central control and multiple civil wars on the Russian periphery, United States sent 8000 troops to Siberia, and Japan, sent 80,000. Japan's goal was to take control of the trans-Siberian Railroad, and adjacent properties, giving it massive control over Manchuria. The Americans were originally sent to help check prisoners escape, but increasingly, their role was to watch and block Japanese expansion. Both nations remove their troops in 1920, as Lenin's Bolsheviks solidified their control over Russia. At the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, Japan was given the mandate over a number of smaller islands that had been part of the German Empire. Japan was disappointed when it's draft resolution condemning racism in international affairs, was dropped from the agenda. However, its main demand, which it pursued relentlessly, was to obtain permanent control of Germany's holdings in Shantung, China. which Japan had captured early in the war. China protested furiously, but have little leverage. The Shandong Problem appeared to be a Japan victory, but Tokyo soon had second thoughts as widespread protests inside China led to the May Fourth Movement led by angry radical students. Finally in 1922 with mediation by the U.S. and Britain Japan returned Shantung to China. \n\nA sort of rapprochement took place between Washington and Tokyo, although there were still philosophical differences in their approaches. The Japanese operated in terms of traditional Power diplomacy, emphasizing control over distinct spheres of influence, while the United States adhered to Wilsonianism based on the \"open door\" and internationalist principles. Both sides compromised, and were successful in diplomatic endeavors such as the naval limitations at the Washington conference in 1922. The conference set a naval ratio for capital warships of 5:5:3 among the United States, Britain and Japan. The result was a de-escalation of the naval arms race for a decade. Japan was outraged at the racism inherent in the 1924 American immigration laws, which reduced the long-standing Japanese quota of 100 immigrants annually to zero. Japan was likewise annoyed at similar restrictions imposed by Canada and Australia. Britain, responding to anti--Japanese sentiment in its Commonwealth, and in the United States, did not renew its two decade old treaty with Japan in 1923.\n\nIn 1930, the London disarmament conference angered the Japanese Army and Navy. Japan's navy demanded parity with the United States and Britain, but was rejected and the conference kept the 1921 ratios. Japan was required to scrap a capital ship. Extremists assassinated Japan's prime minister and the military took more power, leading to the rapid decline in democracy.\nIn September 1931, the Japanese Army--acting on its own without government approval--seized control of Manchuria, an anarchic area that China had not controlled in decades. It set up a puppet government of Manchukuo. Britain and France effectively control the League of Nations, which issued the Lytton Report in 1932, saying that Japan had genuine grievances, but it acted illegally in seizing the entire province. Japan quit the League, Britain took no action. The US Secretary of State announces that it would not recognize Japan's conquest as legitimate. Germany welcomed Japan's actions.\n\nThe civilian government in Tokyo tried to minimize the Army's aggression in Manchuria, and announced it was withdrawing. On the contrary, the Army completed the conquest of Manchuria, and the civilian cabinet resigned. The political parties were divided on the issue of military expansion. The new Prime Minister Inukai Tsuyoshi tried to negotiate with China, but was assassinated in the May 15 Incident in 1932, which Ushered in an era of ultranationalism led by the Army and supported by patriotic societies. It ended civilian rule in Japan until after 1945. \n\nThe Army, however, was itself divided into cliques and factions with different strategic viewpoints. One faction saw The Soviet Union is the main enemy, the other sought to build a mighty empire based in Manchuria and northern China. The Navy, while smaller and less influential, was also factionalized. Large-scale warfare, known as the Second Sino-Japanese War, began in August 1937, with naval and infantry attacks focused on Shanghai, which quickly spread to other major cities. There were numerous large-scale atrocities against Chinese civilians, such as the Nanking Massacre in December 1937, with mass murder and mass rape. By 1939 military lines had stabilized, with Japan in control of the almost all of the major Chinese cities and industrial areas. A puppet government was set up. In the U.S. government and public opinion -- even including those who were isolationist regarding Europe--was resolutely opposed to Japan and gave strong support to China. Meanwhile, the Japanese Army fared badly in large battles with Soviet forces in Mongolia at Battles of Khalkhin Gol in summer 1939. The USSR was too powerful. Tokyo and Moscow signed a nonaggression treaty in April 1941, as the militarists turned their attention to the European colonies to the south which had urgently needed oil fields.\n\nThe Army increasingly took control of the government, assassinated opposing leaders, suppressed the left, and promoted a highly aggressive foreign policy with respect to China. Japanese policy angered the United States, Britain, France, and the Netherlands. Japanese nationalism was the primary inspiration, coupled with a disdain for democracy. The extreme right became influential throughout the Japanese government and society, notably within the Kwantung Army, which was stationed in Manchuria along the Japanese-owned South Manchuria Railroad. During the Manchurian Incident of 1931, radical army officers conquered Manchuria from local officials and set up the puppet government of Manchukuo there without permission from the Japanese government. International criticism of Japan following the invasion led to Japan withdrawing from the League of Nations.\nJapan's expansionist vision grew increasingly bold. Many of Japan's political elite aspired to have Japan acquire new territory for resource extraction and settlement of surplus population. These ambitions led to the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937. After their victory in the Chinese capital, the Japanese military committed the infamous Nanking Massacre. The Japanese military failed to destroy the Chinese government led by Chiang Kai-shek, which retreated to remote areas. The conflict was a stalemate that lasted until 1945. Japan's war aim was to establish the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, a vast pan-Asian union under Japanese domination. Hirohito's role in Japan's foreign wars remains a subject of controversy, with various historians portraying him as either a powerless figurehead or an enabler and supporter of Japanese militarism. The United States grew increasingly worried about the Philippines, an American colony, within easy range of Japan And started looking for ways to contain Japanese expansion.\n\nAmerican public and elite opinion—including even the isolationists—strongly opposed Japan's invasion of China in 1937. President Roosevelt imposed increasingly stringent economic sanctions intended to deprive Japan of the oil and steel in needed to continue its war in China. Japan reacted by forging an alliance with Germany and Italy in 1940, known as the Tripartite Pact, which worsened its relations with the US. In July 1941, the United States, Great Britain, and the Netherlands froze all Japanese assets and cut off oil shipments—Japan had little oil of its own.\n\nJapan had conquered all of Manchuria and most of coastal China by 1939, but the Allies refused to recognize the conquests and stepped up their commitment. President Franklin Roosevelt arranged for American pilots and ground crews to set up an aggressive Chinese Air Force nicknamed the Flying Tigers that would not only defend against Japanese air power but also start bombing the Japanese islands. \nDiplomacy provided very little space for the adjudication of the deep differences between Japan and the United States. The United States was firmly and almost unanimously committed to defending the integrity of China. The isolationism that characterized the strong opposition of many Americans toward war in Europe did not apply to Asia. Japan had no friends in the United States, nor in Great Britain, nor the Netherlands. The United States had not yet declared war on Germany, but was closely collaborating with Britain and the Netherlands regarding the Japanese threat. United States started to move its newest B-17 heavy bombers to bases in the Philippines, well within range of Japanese cities. The goal was deterrence of any Japanese attacks to the south. Furthermore, plans were well underway to ship American air forces to China, where American pilots in Chinese uniforms flying American warplanes, were preparing to bomb Japanese cities well before Pearl Harbor. Great Britain, although realizing it could not defend Hong Kong, was confident in its abilities to defend its major base in Singapore and the surrounding Malaya Peninsula. When the war did start in December 1941, Australian soldiers were rushed to Singapore, weeks before Singapore surrendered, and all the Australian and British forces were sent to prisoner of war camps. the Netherlands, with its homeland overrun by Germany, had a small Navy to defend the Dutch East Indies. Their role was to delay the Japanese invasion long enough to destroy the oil wells, drilling equipment, refineries and pipelines that were the main target of Japanese attacks.\n\nDecisions in Tokyo were controlled by the Army, and then rubber-stamped by Emperor Hirohito; the Navy also had a voice. However, the civilian government and diplomats were largely ignored. The Army saw the conquest of China as its primary mission, but operations in Manchuria had created a long border with the Soviet Union. Informal, large-scale military confrontations with the Soviet forces at Nomonhan in summer 1939 demonstrated that the Soviets possessed a decisive military superiority. Even though it would help Germany's war against Russia after June 1941, the Japanese army refused to go north. The Japanese realized the urgent need for oil, over 90% of which was supplied by the United States, Britain and the Netherlands. From the Army's perspective, a secure fuel supply was essential for the warplanes, tanks and trucks-- as well as the Navy's warships and warplanes of course. The solution was to send the Navy south, to seize the oilfields in the Dutch East Indies and nearby British colonies. Some admirals and many civilians, including Prime Minister Konoe Fumimaro, believed that a war with the U.S. would end in defeat. The alternative was loss of honor and power.\nWhile the admirals were also dubious about their long-term ability to confront the American and British navies, they hoped that a knockout blow destroying the American fleet at Pearl Harbor would bring the enemy to the negotiating table for a favorable outcome. Japanese diplomats were sent to Washington in summer 1941 to engage in high-level negotiations. However, they did not speak for the Army leadership that made the decisions. By early October both sides realized that no compromises were possible between the Japan's commitment to conquer China, and America's commitment to defend China. Japan's civilian government fell and the Army took full control, bent on war. \n\nJapan launched several quick wars in East Asia, and they all worked. In 1937, the Japanese Army invaded and captured most of the coastal Chinese cities such as Shanghai. Japan took over French Indochina (Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia) in 1940-41. After declaring war on the U.S., Britain and the Netherlands in December 1941, it quickly conquered British Malaya (Brunei, Malaysia, Singapore) as well as the Dutch East Indies (Indonesia). Thailand managed to stay independent by becoming a satellite state of Japan. In December 1941 to May 1942, Japan sank major elements of the American, British and Dutch fleets, captured Hong Kong, Singapore, the Philippines and the Dutch East Indies, and reached the borders of India and began bombing Australia. Japan suddenly had achieved its goal of ruling the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere.\n\nThe ideology of Japan's colonial empire, as it expanded dramatically during the war, contained two contradictory impulses. On the one hand, it preached the unity of the Co-Prosperity Sphere, a coalition of Asian races, directed by Japan, against the imperialism of Britain, France, the Netherlands, United States, and Europe in general. This approach celebrated the spiritual values of the East in opposition to the crass materialism of the West. In practice, it was a euphemistic title for grabbing land and acquiring essential natural resources. The Japanese installed organizationally-minded bureaucrats and engineers to run their new empire, and they believed in ideals of efficiency, modernization, and engineering solutions to social problems. Economist Akamatsu Kaname (1896-1974) devised the \"Flying geese paradigm\" in the late 1930s that provided a model of imperialistic economic behavior. Japan (the lead goose) would specialize in high technology, high-value manufacturing. It would purchase food, cotton, and iron ore at artificially low prices from the trailing Co-Prosperity Sphere geese, and sell them high-priced final products such as chemicals, fertilizers, and machinery. These dealings were carried out by the powerful zaibatsu corporations and supervised by the Japanese government. The Flying geese paradigm was revived after 1950 and was given credit for the rapid economic growth of Japan's East Asia trading partners.\n\nThe Japanese Army operated ruthless governments in most of the conquered areas, but paid more favorable attention to the Dutch East Indies. The main goal was to obtain oil, but Japan sponsored an Indonesian nationalist movement under Sukarno. Sukarno finally came to power in the late 1940s after several years of battling the Dutch. The Dutch destroyed their oil wells but the Japanese reopened them. However most of the tankers taking oil to Japan were sunk by American submarines, so Japan's oil shortage became increasingly acute.\n\nJapan set up puppet regimes in Manchuria (\"Manchukuo\") and China; proper; they vanished at the end of the war.\nManchuria, the historic homeland of the Manchu dynasty, had an ambiguous character after 1912. It was run by local warlords. The Japanese Army seized control in 1931, and set up a puppet state of Manchukuo in 1932 for the 34,000,000 inhabitants. Other areas were added, and over 800,000 Japanese moved in as administrators. The nominal ruler was Puyi, who as a small child had been the last Emperor of China. He was deposed during the revolution of 1911, and now the Japanese brought him back in a powerless role. Only Axis countries recognized Manchukuo. The United States in 1932 announced the Stimson Doctrine stating that it would never recognize Japanese sovereignty. Japan modernized the economy and operated it as a satellite to the Japanese economy. It was out of range of American bombers, so its factories were expanded and continued their output to the end. Manchukuo was returned to China in 1945. When Japan seized control of China proper in 1937–38, the Japanese Central China Expeditionary Army set up the Reorganized National Government of China, a puppet state, under the nominal leadership of Wang Ching-wei (1883–1944). It was based in Nanjing. The Japanese were in full control; the puppet state declared war on the Allies in 1943. Wang was allowed to administer the International Settlement in Shanghai. The puppet state had an army of 900,000 soldiers, and was positioned against the Nationalist army under Chiang Kai-shek. It did little fighting.\n\nThe Americans under General Douglas MacArthur were in ultimate command of Japanese affairs 1945-51. The other allies and former colonial possessions of Japan demanded revenge, but MacArthur operated a highly favorable system in which harsh measures were limited to war criminals, who were tried and executed. Japan lacked sovereignty and had no diplomatic relations--its people were not allowed to travel abroad. MacArthur worked to democratize Japan along the lines of the American New Deal, with the destruction of militarism and monopolistic corporations, and the inculcation of democratic values and electoral practices. MacArthur worked well with Emperor Hirohito, who was kept on the throne as a symbolic constitutional ruler. In practice, the actual administration of national and government was handled by the Japanese themselves under Prime Minister Yoshida Shigeru. His policy, known as the Yoshida Doctrine was to focus Japanese energies on rebuilding the economy, while relying entirely on the United States to handle defense and foreign policy generally. Yoshida shared and implemented MacArthur's goals was to democratize Japanese political, social and economic institutions, while completely de-militarizing the nation and renouncing its militaristic heritage. \n\nMacArthur ordered a limited rearmament of Japan the week after the war broke out in June 1950, calling for a national police reserve of 75,000 men, which would be organized separately from the 125,000 police force that already existed. The Coast Guard grew from 10,000 to 18,000. The argument that these were police forces for domestic internal use carried the day over the objections of the anti-militarists. However, Washington envisioned a quasi-military force that would use military equipment on loan from the United States. Japan now had a small army of its own. Japan became the logistical base for the American and allied forces fighting in Korea, with a surge in orders for goods and services that jump-started the economy. \n\nThe occupation culminated in the Peace Treaty of 1951, signed by Japan, the United States, and 47 other involved nations, not including the Soviet Union or either Chinese government. The occupation officially ended in April 1952. American diplomat John Foster Dulles was in charge of drafting the peace treaty. He had been deeply involved in 1919, when severe reparations and the guilt clause was imposed against Germany at the Paris Peace Conference. Dulles thought that was a terrible mistake that energized the far right and the Nazis in Germany, and he made sure it never happened again. Japan was therefore not obligated to pay reparations to anyone.\n\nFrom 1950 onward, Japan rebuilt itself politically and economically. The U.S. and its allies used Japan as their logistics base during the Korean War (1950-53), which poured money into the economy. Historian Yone Sugita finds that \"the 1950s was a decade during which Japan formulated a unique corporate capitalist system in which government, business, and labor implemented close and intricate cooperation\". \n\nJapan's newfound economic power soon gave it far more dominance than it ever had militarily. The Yoshida Doctrine and the Japanese government's economic intervention, spurred on an economic miracle on par with that of West Germany a few years earlier. The Japanese government strove to spur industrial development through a mix of protectionism and trade expansion. The establishment of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) was instrumental in the Japanese post-war economic recovery. By 1954, the MITI system was in full effect. It coordinated industry and government action and fostered cooperative arrangements, and sponsored research to develop promising exports as well as imports for which substitutes would be sought (especially dyestuffs, iron and steel, and soda ash). Yoshida's successor, Hayato Ikeda, began implementing economic policies which removed much of Japan's anti-monopoly laws. Foreign companies were locked out of the Japanese market and strict protectionist laws were enacted.\n\nMeanwhile, the United States under President Eisenhower saw Japan as the economic anchor for Western Cold War policy in Asia. Japan was completely demilitarized and did not contribute to military power, but did provide the economic power. The US and UN forces used Japan as their forward logistics base during the Korean War (1950–53), and orders for supplies flooded Japan. The close economic relationship strengthened the political and diplomatic ties, so that the two nations survived a political crisis in 1960 involving left-wing opposition to the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty. The left failed to force the removal of large American military bases in Japan, especially on Okinawa. Shimizu argues that the American policy of creating \"people of plenty\" was a success in Japan and reached its goal of defusing anti-capitalist protest on the left.\n\nBy the 1980s Japan's economy was the second-largest in the world after the United States. It kept this position until 2011, when the economy of China surpassed it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649153", "title": "KAS Air Company", "text": "KAS Air Company\n\nKAS Air Company was an airline based in Kyrgyzstan.\n"}
{"id": "24931066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24931066", "title": "Kauno Miesto Diena", "text": "Kauno Miesto Diena\n\nDays of Kaunas City () is an annual series of cultural events to celebrate the anniversary of Kaunas, Lithuania. The festivities mark May 20, 1463, when Grand Duke Casimir IV Jagiellon renewed and expanded the privileges of the city in 1463. The oldest original privilege is kept in Saint Petersburg archives and its copy is kept in the Town Hall of Kaunas. The main events of the festival, including folk art fairs and concerts, take place in the streets and squares of the Old Town of Kaunas at the end of May.\n\n"}
{"id": "44035315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44035315", "title": "Kubuta Airfield", "text": "Kubuta Airfield\n\nKubuta Airfield is a rural airstrip serving Kubuta, an Inkhundla in the Shiselweni Region of Swaziland.\n\nThe Matsapha VOR-DME (Ident: VMS) is located north-northwes of the runway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3442980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3442980", "title": "List of cakes", "text": "List of cakes\n\nThe following is a list of types of dessert cakes by country of origin and distinctive ingredients. The majority of the cakes contain some kind of flour, egg, and sugar, and these ingredients are not listed.\n\n"}
{"id": "31006480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31006480", "title": "Live It Up (Yüksek Sadakat song)", "text": "Live It Up (Yüksek Sadakat song)\n\n\"Live It Up\" is a song performed by Yüksek Sadakat. It was the Turkish entry at the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 and was sung in English. It failed to make the finals, after performing in the semi-final on May 10 making it the first ever Turkish entrant not to progress to the finals.\n\n"}
{"id": "3430999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3430999", "title": "Loningisa", "text": "Loningisa\n\nLoningisa was a studio and record label based in Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (then known as Zaire). Loningisa was made famous by the emergence the African rumba band OK Jazz, whose music became popular, and a big influence on African and Congolese popular music. \n\nOK Jazz included Francois Luambo Makiadi who emerged as Zaire's first true pop-music star, particularly his guitar playing abilities. Franco and all other members of OK Jazz were tutored and trained at the Loningisa studios. The group formed via collective participation at Loningisa's studios as players in sessions and the house band titled 'Bana Loningisa' (Loningisa Boys). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32126765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32126765", "title": "MT Bonsu", "text": "MT Bonsu\n\nThe MT \"Bonsu\" is a 16,000 tonne oil storage vessel that operates off the coast of Ghana in the Saltpond Oil Field. It was commissioned for operations in the field in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "13381824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13381824", "title": "Maltese general election, 1992", "text": "Maltese general election, 1992\n\nGeneral elections were held in Malta on 22 February 1992. The Nationalist Party remained the largest party, winning 34 of the 65 seats.\n\nThe Labour party performed very poorly in the 1992 election, losing by nearly 13,000 votes. Mifsud Bonnici resigned due to deteriorating health and on the 26 March Labour elected Alfred Sant as the new leader.\n"}
{"id": "12208348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12208348", "title": "Maluku Sovereignty Front", "text": "Maluku Sovereignty Front\n\nThe Maluku Sovereignty Front (FKM) () is a secessionist movement on Ambon Island, aiming to restore the Republic of the South Moluccas (RMS). It was established on June 15, 2000 at Ambon.\n\nThey have been monitored by the Indonesian military for stockpiling weapons and other activities. Indonesian sources claim that the group first emerged in January 1999.\n\nOne of their activities has been to fly the banned flag of the Republic of South Maluku in public places to commemorate an unsuccessful secession attempt in 1950. \n\nThe leader of the FKM organisation Alex Manuputty has fled to the United States, but continues to support independence.\n"}
{"id": "21132028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21132028", "title": "Mapna Locomotive Engineering and Manufacturing Company", "text": "Mapna Locomotive Engineering and Manufacturing Company\n\nMAPNA Locomotive Engineering and Manufacturing Company (MLC) is an Iranian manufacturing company which was established in 2006. The company's manufacturing plant was officially inaugurated in 2012 with the objective of manufacturing 150 passenger locomotives in cooperation with Siemens AG, to be delivered to Iran’s Railways Company (RAI). A new contract for manufacture of 50 other passenger locomotives of the same type was signed between the two companies in 2016, upon full delivery of the first batch to RAI.\n\nMLC is a subsidiary of MAPNA, a company engaged in power, oil and gas, railroad and other industrial projects.\n\nThe company has produced single-ended EuroRunner type locomotives (IranRunner) under license from Siemens.\n\n"}
{"id": "53756071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53756071", "title": "Matarraque", "text": "Matarraque\n\nMatarraque is a neighborhood within the Portuguese municipality of Cascais. More specifically, it is located within the Freguesia of São Domingos de Rana,\n\nFamous for its \"Matarraque crew\" who went on to create the worldwide brand \"Bata crew\".\n"}
{"id": "31076939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31076939", "title": "Muuga Harbour", "text": "Muuga Harbour\n\nMuuga Harbour () is the largest cargo port in Estonia, located on the southern coast of the Gulf of Finland, northeast of the capital Tallinn, in Maardu. The harbour is administrated by Port of Tallinn, the biggest port authority in Estonia. Muuga Harbour is one of the few ice-free ports in northernmost Europe and among the deepest —up to — and most modern ports in the Baltic Sea region. The cargo volume handled accounts for around 80% of the total cargo volume of Port of Tallinn and approximately 90% of the transit cargo volume passing through Estonia. Nearly 3/4 of cargo loaded in Muuga Harbour includes crude oil and oil products, but the harbour also serves dry bulk (mostly fertilizers, grain and coal) and other types of cargo.\n\nThe usual annual cargo traffic in the seaport is about 20–30 million tons.\n\nThe harbour covers an area of on land and of water. Besides Maardu, the seaport also occupies land in the villages of Muuga and Uusküla.\n\nThere are 29 quays with a total length of . The maximum depth is . The largest tonnage of ship that can be accommodated is .\n\nThere are 6 liquid bulk terminals, container, grain, coal, steel and a dry bulk terminals located in the port.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43010234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43010234", "title": "My Arabian House", "text": "My Arabian House\n\nMy arabian house () is a program for Arab children. Its production cost 3 million QR. A range of puppets broadcasts the program. The program displays on Al-Jazeera children's channel.\n"}
{"id": "31204248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31204248", "title": "National Archives of Guinea", "text": "National Archives of Guinea\n\nThe National Archives of Guinea were established in the 1960s after the country gained its independence. They have been moved three times since then and are currently situated in the capital city of Conakry. As of around 1995, the archives had a collection of over 3,000 volumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "5496688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5496688", "title": "National Centre of Trade Unions of Turkmenistan", "text": "National Centre of Trade Unions of Turkmenistan\n\nThe National Centre of Trade Unions of Turkmenistan is the sole trade union centre in Turkmenistan. It is a continuation of the Soviet model of trade union. It claims a membership of 1.3 million.\n"}
{"id": "56945508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56945508", "title": "Nogoom Masrya", "text": "Nogoom Masrya\n\nNogoom Masrya (, , meaning \"Egyptian Stars\") is an Arabic Egyptian independent news web portal founded in September 2009 by Abdelrahman Ellithy. The website is best known for being the first revenue sharing platform in the Arab world \n\nNogoom Masrya started as an Internet forum in September 2009 with domain name 100fm6.com and focus on celebrity news. Then, it became popular during the Egyptian revolution of 2011 and launched a news portal in 2013 in the Middle East.\n\nNogoom Masrya launched its news app on App Store for iPhone and iPad users and another app on Google play for Android users in April 2018.\n\nNogoom Masrya applied new internet technologies like for example: AMP (Accelerated mobile pages), using HTTPS internet protocol and web push notifications. Nogoom Masrya was one of the early sites that adopted these technologies, and this helped in having fast loading pages for users.\n"}
{"id": "2792897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2792897", "title": "Omar Bongo Technical High School", "text": "Omar Bongo Technical High School\n\nOmar Bongo Technical High School in Libreville, Gabon, is one of the largest secondary schools in Gabon with some 6,000 students. The technical school is named after Gabonese President Omar Bongo.\n\nThe school was temporarily shut down in January 2004 because of student lawlessness and the invasion of another school. A subsequent inquiry found that corruption and prostitution were endemic in the school.\n\n"}
{"id": "35797979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35797979", "title": "Operation Boswilger", "text": "Operation Boswilger\n\nOperation \"Boswilger\" () was a military operation executed by the South West Africa Territorial Force (SWATF) in June 1985 during the South African Border War and Angolan Civil War. The SADF soldiers pursued SWAPO's, PLAN insurgents, who had attacked infrastructure, out of South West Africa/Namibia across the border into Angola.\n\nOn 28 June, PLAN insurgents entered South West Africa damaging a bridge between Epali and Ondangwa, sabotaging twenty telephone poles, mortaring the Eenhana SADF base and a bomb was detonated at the Ongwediva Teachers Training College No one was injured in these attacks.\n\nOn 29 June 1985, South West Africa Territory Force (SWATF) mechanised reaction teams set off in a hot pursuit operation following the tracks. Orders had been given by Brigadier Joep Joubert, to follow the insurgents even if they crossed back into Angola. Bases were attacked up to 40 km inside Angola. There was twenty-three contacts in the first day killing forty-three insurgents and thirteen contacts and another fourteen insurgents killed on the second day. The operation lasted two days before the SWATF withdrew back across the border to SWA.\n\nAt the end of the operation, 56 PLAN insurgents had been killed with one dead from the SWATF with large amounts of weapons and ammunition captured.\n\nLater South African Foreign Minister Pik Botha would justify the operation to cross the border into Angola as the Angolan's had failed to prevent the incursions of SWAPO's insurgents into South West Africa/Namibian territory, as prescribed by the Lusaka Accords.\n"}
{"id": "3229284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3229284", "title": "Opobo", "text": "Opobo\n\nOpobo is a city-state in the southern region of Nigeria. The state was founded in 1870. A greater part of the city state is still referred to as Opobo in Rivers State. \nOpobo is made up of several Islands and communities, mainly Opobo Town, Queenstown, Kalasunju, Oloma, Ayaminimah, Iloma, Minimah, Okpukpo, Iwoma, Ekereborokiri, Kalaibiama, and Epellema while a part of the city state is now in Akwa Ibom State, made up of Ikot Abasi, Kampa.\n\nOpobo was to the east of the Kingdom of Bonny. Both Bonny and Opobo are of the same origin. An Igbo man (turned Ibani) called Jubo Jubogha (known as \"Ja-Ja\" to Europeans) led the Anna Pepple house (Wari) of Bonny. In 1870, Jaja arrived in Opobo from Bonny, moving due to a dispute with chief Oko Jumbo, the leader of the rival Manilla Pepple family (Wari).\nJaja was accommodated by the Nkoro leader, King Kpokpo and formed what he called \"Kingdom of Opobo\" which he named after Amanyanabo Opubo \"Pepple\" Perekule the Great, a Pepple King in Bonny that reigned from 1792 to 1830.\n\nJubo Jubogha became involved in palm oil trading with Europeans. He started a trading post at Opobo Town, close to Ikot Abasi 4 miles southwest of the Opobo River. The European traders called him King Jaja. Jubo Jubogha was never on good terms with Ngwa people to the north, Annang and the Ibibio to the east, as Jaja declared himself as the middle-man in palm Oil trading, thus asking them to stop trading directly with the European. This resulted in a war (Ikot Udo Obong War) between Jaja and the Annang and Ibuno people as recorded by Nair. In 1887, he was deceived when he was told to go and negotiate with the Queen of England by the British and sent on exile to Saint Vincent in the West Indies.\n\nThe rulers of Opobo were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23249031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23249031", "title": "Radio Nacional de Guinea Ecuatorial", "text": "Radio Nacional de Guinea Ecuatorial\n\nRadio Nacional de Guinea Ecuatorial is the national broadcaster of the Central African state of Equatorial Guinea. Radio Nacional de Guinea Equatorial is headquartered in the capital city, Malabo.\n\n"}
{"id": "25041796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25041796", "title": "Relative purchasing power parity", "text": "Relative purchasing power parity\n\nRelative purchasing power parity is an economic theory which predicts a relationship between the inflation rates of two countries over a specified period and the movement in the exchange rate between their two currencies over the same period. It is a dynamic version of the absolute purchasing power parity theory.\n\nSuppose that the currency of Country A is called the A$ (A-dollar) and the currency of country B is called the B$.\n\nThe theory states that if the price P in country A of a basket of commodities and services is P A-dollars, then the price Q of the same basket in country B will be C×P A-dollars, where C is a constant which does not vary over time, or, equivalently, C×P×S B-dollars, where S is the (variable) number of B-dollars required to buy one A-dollar, i.e. the exchange rate.\n\nIf (1) and (2) denote two different dates, then it follows that \n\nand hence\n\nor, in words, the factor representing the movement in market exchange rates is equal to the ratio of the inflation factors (changes in price levels) of the two countries (as one would intuitively expect). \n\nAbsolute purchasing power parity occurs when C=1, and is a special case of the above.\n\nAccording to this theory, the change in the exchange rate is determined by price level changes in both countries. For example, if prices in the United States rise by 3% and prices in the European Union rise by 1% the purchasing power of the EUR should appreciate by approximately 2% compared to the purchasing power of the USD (equivalently the USD will depreciate by about 2%).\n\nNote that it is incorrect to do the calculation by subtracting these percentages – one must use the above formula, giving formula_3 = 0.98058, i.e. a 1.942% depreciation of the USD. With larger price rises, the difference between the incorrect and the correct formula becomes larger.\n\nUnlike absolute PPP, relative PPP predicts a relationship between changes in prices and changes in exchange rates, rather than a relationship between their levels. Remember that relative PPP is derived from absolute PPP. Hence, the latter always implies the former: if absolute PPP holds, this implies that relative PPP must hold also. But the converse need not be true: relative PPP does not necessarily imply absolute PPP (if relative PPP holds, absolute PPP can hold or fail). \n\nCommonly called \"absolute\" purchasing power parity, this theory assumes that equilibrium in the exchange rate between two currencies will force their purchasing powers to be equal. This theory is likely to hold well for commodities which are easily transportable between the two countries (such as gold, assuming this is freely transferable) but is likely to be false for other goods and services which cannot easily be transported, because the transportation costs will distort the parity.\n\n"}
{"id": "12219773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12219773", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Sumbe", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Sumbe\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Sumbe () is a diocese located in the city of Sumbe in the Ecclesiastical province of Luanda in Angola.\n\n\nThe Cathedral of the diocese is Sé Catedral de Nossa Senhora da Conceição (Cathedral Church of the Conception of Our Lady) in Sumbe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "684739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684739", "title": "Snooker world rankings 1982/1983", "text": "Snooker world rankings 1982/1983\n\nSnooker world rankings 1982/1983: The professional world rankings for the top 33 snooker players in the 1982/1983 season are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "644761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644761", "title": "Snooker world rankings 2003/2004", "text": "Snooker world rankings 2003/2004\n\nSnooker world rankings 2003/2004: The professional world rankings for the top 64 snooker players in the 2003/2004 season are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "48915162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48915162", "title": "Social Credit System", "text": "Social Credit System\n\nThe Social Credit System () is a national reputation system being developed by the Chinese government. By 2020, it is intended to standardise the assessment of citizens' and businesses' economic and social reputation, or 'credit'.\n\nAs of mid-2018, it is unclear whether the system will be an 'ecosystem' of various scores and blacklists run by both government agencies and private companies, or if it will be one unified system. It is also unclear whether there will be a single system-wide social credit score for each citizen and business. By 2018, some restrictions had been placed on citizens, which state-owned media described as the first step toward creating a national social credit system.\n\nThe system is a form of mass surveillance which uses big data analysis technology.\n\nOn June 14, 2014, the China's State Council issued an outline for the national social credit system, it was titled \"State Council Notice concerning Issuance of the Planning Outline for the Construction of a Social Credit System (2014–2020)\". Law scholar Rogier Creemers translated the document into English.\n\nThe plan shows the government wants the basic structures of the Social Credit System to be in place by 2020. The goal being \"raising the awareness for integrities and the level of credibility within society.\" It is presented as a means to perfect the “socialist market economy” (完善社会主义市场经济体制) as well as strengthening and innovating societal governance (加强和创新社会治理). This indicates that the Chinese government views it both as a means to regulate the economy at a business level and as a tool of governance to steer the behavior of citizens.\n\nThe outline focuses on four areas: \"honesty in government affairs\" (政务诚信), \"commercial integrity\" (商务诚信), \"societal integrity\" (社会诚信), and \"judicial credibility\" (司法公信). The Chinese government's plans includes credit assessment of businesses operating in China. \n\nThe Social Credit System is an example of China’s “top-level design” (顶层设计) approach. It is coordinated by the Central Leading Group for Comprehensively Deepening Reforms. \n\nIt is unclear whether the system will work as envisioned by 2020, but the Chinese government has fast-tracked the implementation of the system, resulting in the publication of numerous policy documents and plans since the main plan was issued in 2014. If the Social Credit System is implemented as envisioned, it will constitute a new way of controlling both the behavior of individuals and of businesses.\n\nIn 2013, the Supreme People's Court (SPC) started a blacklist of debtors with roughly thirty two thousand names. The list has since been described as a first step towards a national Social Credit System by state-owned media.\n\nIn 2015, the People's Bank of China licensed eight companies to begin a trial of social credit systems. Among these eight firms is Sesame Credit, owned by Alibaba Group, Tencent, as well as China’s biggest ride-sharing and online-dating service, Didi Chuxing and Baihe.com, respectively. In general, multiple firms are collaborating with the government to develop the system of software and algorithms used to calculate credit. The SPC also began working with private companies – for example, Sesame Credit began deducting credit points from people who defaulted on court fines.\n\nThe government originally considered that the Social Credit System be run by a private firm, but it has since acknowledged the need for third-party administration. \n\nIn 2017, no licenses to private companies were granted. The reasons include conflict of interest, the remaining control of the government, as well as the lack of cooperation in data sharing among the firms that participate in the development. However, the Social Credit System's operation by a seemingly external association, such as a formal collaborative between private firms, has not been ruled out yet. Private companies have also signed contracts with provincial governments to set up the basic infrastructure for the Social Credit System at a provincial level.\n\nAs of March 2017, 137 commercial credit reporting companies are active on the Chinese market. As part of the development of the Social Credit System, the Chinese government has been monitoring the progress of third-party Chinese credit rating systems. \n\n, no comprehensive, nation-wide social credit system exists, but there are multiple pilots testing the system on a local level as well as in specific sectors of industry. One such program has been implemented in Shanghai through its Honest Shanghai app, which uses facial recognition software to browse government records, and rates users accordingly. \n\nIn March 2018, Reuters reported that restrictions on citizens and businesses with low Social Credit ratings, and thus low trustworthiness, would come into effect on May 1st. By May 2018, several million flight and high-speed train trips had been denied to people who had been blacklisted.\n\nAs of mid-2018, it was unclear whether the system will be an 'ecosystem' of various scores and blacklists run by both government agencies and private companies, or if it will be one unified system. It is also unclear whether there will be a single system-wide social credit score for each citizen and business.\n\nIn November, a detailed plan was produced for further implementation of the program for 2018-2020. The plans included black listing people from public transport and publicly disclosing individuals' and businesses' untrustworthiness rating.\n\nIt is unclear what technology will be used in the fully implemented system. As of mid 2018, only pilot schemes have been tested. Some of the technology is provided by the Alibaba Group's Ant Financial. Alibaba is China’s largest conglomerate of online services, including the largest online shopping and payment providers.\n\nThe Chinese government aims at assessing the trustworthiness and compliance of each person. Data stems both from peoples' own accounts, as well as their network's activities. Website operators can mine the traces of data that users exchange with websites and derive a full social profile, including location, friends, health records, insurance, private messages, financial position, gaming duration, smart home statistics, preferred newspapers, shopping history, and dating behaviour.\n\nAutomated algorithms are used to structure the collected data, based on government rules.\n\nFrom the Chinese government \"Plan for Implementation\", the SCS is due to be fully implemented by 2020. Once implemented the system will manage the rewards, or punishments, of citizens on the basis of their economic and personal behavior. Some types of punishments include: flight ban, exclusion from private schools, slow internet connection, exclusion from high prestige work, exclusion from hotels, and registration on a public blacklist.\n\nBy May 2018, several million flight and high-speed train trips had been denied. The people denied were on a blacklist. The exact reasons for people being placed on the list are unknown. \"Business Insider\" speculated that the reason could be the debtors list created by the SPC.\n\nIf the parents of a child score below a certain threshold, their children would be excluded from top schools in the region.\n\nOne's personal score could be used as a social symbol on social and couples platforms. For example, China's biggest matchmaking service, Baihe, already allows its users to publish their own score.\n\nThe rewards of having a high score include easier access to loans and jobs and priority during bureaucratic paperwork. Likewise, the immediate negative consequences for a low score, or being associated to someone with a low score, ranges from lower internet speeds to being denied access to certain jobs, loans and visas.\n\nAmong other things, the Social Credit System is meant to provide an answer to the problem of lack of trust on the Chinese market. Proponents argue that it will help eliminate problems such as food safety issues, cheating, and counterfeit goods. China claims its aim is to enhance trust and social stability by creating a “culture of sincerity”.\n\nFor businesses, the Social Credit System is meant to serve as a market regulation mechanism. The goal is to establish a self-enforcing regulatory regime fueled by big data in which businesses exercise “self-restraint” (企业自我约束). The basic idea is that with a functional credit system in place, companies will comply with government policies and regulations to avoid having their scores lowered by disgruntled employees, customers or clients. As currently envisioned, companies with good credit scores will enjoy benefits such as good credit conditions, lower tax rates, and more investment opportunities. Companies with bad credit scores will potentially face unfavorable conditions for new loans, higher tax rates, investment restrictions, and lower chances to participate in publicly-funded projects. Government plans also envision real-time monitoring of a business’ activities. In that case, infractions on the part of a business could result in a lowered score almost instantly. However, whether this will actually happen depends on the future implementation of the system as well as on the availability of technology needed for this kind of monitoring.\n\nThe Social Credit System will be limited to Mainland China and thus does not apply to Hong Kong and Macau. However, at present, plans do not distinguish between Chinese companies and foreign companies operating on the Chinese market, raising the possibility that foreign businesses operating in China will be subjected to the system as well.\n\nThe system has been implicated in a number of controversies. Of particular note is how it is applied to individuals as well as companies. People have already faced various punishments for violating social protocols. The system has been used to already block nine million people with \"low scores\" from purchasing domestic flights. While still in the preliminary stages, the system has been used to ban people and their children from certain schools, prevent low scorers from renting hotels, using credit cards, and blacklist individuals from being able to procure employment. The system has also been used to rate individuals on their internet habits (excessive online gaming reduces one's score), personal shopping habits, and a variety of other personal and wholly innocuous acts that have no impact on the wider community. Criticism of this program has been widespread with the proposed system being described by Human Rights Watch as \"chilling\" and filled with arbitrary abuses.\n\n\"Vision Times\" labeled the system as a mass surveillance tool and mass disciplinary machine.\n\nIn 2018, the New Economics Foundation compared the Chinese citizen score to other rating systems in the United Kingdom. These included using data from a citizen's credit score, phone usage, rent payment, etc. to filter job applications, determine access to social services, determine advertisements served, etc.\n\nIn February 2018, Handelsblatt Global reported that Germany may be \"sleep walking\" towards a system comparable to China's. Using data from the universal credit rating system, Schufa, geolocation and health records to determine access to credit and health insurance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2954744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2954744", "title": "Southern Africa Social Forum", "text": "Southern Africa Social Forum\n\nThe Southern African Social Forum(SASF) was a Social Forum conference held in a different Southern Africa county each year.\n\nIt is organised in the spirit of the World Social Forum but is not organized by the WSF Secretariat or the International Council \n\nThe SASF emerged from the Africa Social Forum (ASF) which was held in Mali in 2001 and Ethiopia in 2002. At the Ethiopia ASF it was agreed in Forums needed to be organised on a more local level. Amongst other things this was to overcome problems of prohibitive transport costs.\n\nThe 2003 SASF was held on the 9–12 November 2003 in Lusaka Zambia under the banner “Another Southern Africa is Possible”. Approximately 400 people participated.\n\nAt the forum motions were passed stating that The Forum \"\"the globalisation process, dominated by the giant transnational corporations from the North, is impacting negatively on the people [of Southern Africa]\" and that the New Economic Plan for African Development (NEPAD) should be rejected \"as an expression of support by certain leaders of our continent for the world’s elite at the expense of the majority\".\n\nThe 2005 SASF took place in Harare Zimbabwe. It had the largest participation so far with around 4,000 people taking part. Participants came from South Africa, Botswana, Mozambique, Malawi, Lesotho, Swaziland and Zimbabwe\n\nThe event organisers had been put under pressure from the Zimbabwean police who warned speakers that any criticism of Robert Mugabe would lead to the event being closed down. But by the end of the meeting, buoyed by the size of the participation, speakers were denouncing Mugabe. According to Charie Kimber, writing in the Socialist Worker \"Half of the watching police were nodding along in agreement\"\".\n\nThe speakers at the event were critical of Capitalism itself as well as of the region’s governments. One popular chant was \"phansi capitalism\" (down with capitalism) and \"viva socialism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24209451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24209451", "title": "The City of Pleasure", "text": "The City of Pleasure\n\nThe City of Pleasure is Ezzat el Kamhawi's first novel, and second book after \"It Happened in the land of Dust and Mud\" (stories). It was first released by the General Organization for Cultural Centers in 1997, second edition by el-Ain publishing in 2009. In his novel, Kamhawi attempted to personify an entire city where he deals with issues related to love and sex. The characters are portrayed as simple passerby who narrate the city's story and who live in it, with it and for it.\n\nA city like no other, guarded by the goddess of pleasure and, ruled by a licentious king who dedicated his time to carnal pleasures and a princess who dreams of love and tender empathy. The priests decide to design the walls of the princess's room with figures of embracing lovers and burnt incense and chanted their magical incantations that the pictures on the wall may come to life and the dream of the princess for true love might come true.\n\nPeople real and shadowy, strong slaves and emperors have met their doom at the gates of the City of Pleasure. Eventually the gates of the impenetrable city succumbs under the charm of two ingenious commodities: fried potatoes and pepsi-cola. No one knows the real history of the City of Pleasure and no welcome visitor has ever escaped its enchantment.\n\nThis is the novel that has been structured from human myths melted down and recreated one of the most perfectly executed literary whims. It is no longer possible to speak of modern Arabic literary narrative without including The City of Pleasure and the enriching addition it has provided to the art of the modern Arabic novel par excellence.\n\nGamal El-Ghitani: \n\nAbdel Rahman el-Abnudi: \n\nMohamed Abd al-Muttalib: \n\nNabil Soliman: \n\n"}
{"id": "2100050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100050", "title": "Turduli Oppidani", "text": "Turduli Oppidani\n\nThe Turduli Oppidani or Turdulorum Oppida (Latin: \"oppidums of the Turduli\" or \"Strongholds of the Turduli\"), were a pre-Roman people of Lusitania in present-day Portugal, akin to the Lusitanians.\n\nThey occupied the Portuguese region of Estremadura (coastal central Portugal), where they held the fortified towns (\"Oppida\") of \"Aeminium\" (Coimbra), \"Conimbriga\" (Condeixa-a-Velha, near Coimbra), \"Coniumbriga\" (possibly Monte Meão), \"Collipo\" (S. Sebastião do Freixo, Batalha), \"Eburobrittium\" (Amoreira de Óbidos), \"Ierabriga\" (Alenquer).\n\nAn off-shot of the Turduli people, the Turduli Oppidani trekked northwards around the 5th century BC in conjunction with the Celtici and ended settling the present-day central coastal Portuguese region of Estremadura-Beira Litoral. The Oppidani seem to have become clients of the Lusitani sometime prior to the mid-3rd Century BC and then of Carthage at the latter part of the century. Their history after the 2nd Punic War is less clear; is it almost certain that the Oppidani remained under Lusitani overlorship and bore the brunt of the first Roman thrusts into the Iberian northwest. In 138-136 BC Consul Decimus Junius Brutus devastated their lands in retaliation for them helping the Lusitani. The Oppidani were certainly defeated and technically included in Hispania Ulterior province by the praetor Publius Licinius Crassus Dives in the wake of his campaign against the Lusitani and Celtici in 93 BC. Again the Oppidani and the Turduli Veteres suffered the same treatment in 61-60 BC, when they were incorporated into H. Ulterior by the Propraetor Julius Caesar.\n\nThey were later aggregated by Emperor Augustus into the new Lusitania Province in 27-13 BC.\n\n\n\n"}
