{"id": "11735989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11735989", "title": "Affinity diagram", "text": "Affinity diagram\n\nThe affinity diagram is a business tool used to organize ideas and data. It is one of the Seven Management and Planning Tools. People have been grouping data into groups based on natural relationships for thousands of years; however, the term affinity diagram was devised by Jiro Kawakita in the 1960s and is sometimes referred to as the KJ Method.\n\nThe tool is commonly used within project management and allows large numbers of ideas stemming from brainstorming to be sorted into groups, based on their natural relationships, for review and analysis. It is also frequently used in contextual inquiry as a way to organize notes and insights from field interviews. It can also be used for organizing other freeform comments, such as open-ended survey responses, support call logs, or other qualitative data.\n\nThe affinity diagram organizes ideas with following steps:\n\nOnce the cards have been sorted into groups the team may sort large clusters into subgroups for easier management and analysis. Once completed, the affinity diagram may be used to create a cause and effect diagram.\n\nIn many cases, the best results tend to be achieved when the activity is completed by a cross-functional team, including key stakeholders. The process requires becoming deeply immersed in the data, which has benefits beyond the tangible deliverables.\n\n"}
{"id": "32442469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32442469", "title": "Ahmed Sultan Bin Sulayem", "text": "Ahmed Sultan Bin Sulayem\n\nAhmed Sultan Bin Sulayem (Arabic: أحمد سلطان بن سليّم) is the Executive Chairman of DMCC (Dubai Multi Commodities Centre), the free zone authority in Jumeirah Lakes Towers (JLT) and established in 2002 by the Government of Dubai to provide the physical, market and financial infrastructure required to establish the emirate as a hub for global commodities trade. He is the son of Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem. As of September 2018, DMCC had over 15,000 registered members operating within it's free zone including commodities, businesses as well as other sectors. In 2018, Bin Sulayem completed 17 years with DMCC.\n\nAs the Executive Chairman of DMCC, Bin Sulayem has played a key role in establishing and positioning DMCC as a major commodities trade hub in the region. Under his leadership, DMCC has introduced a number of value-added products and services; including the establishment of the Dubai Diamond Exchange (DDE), the only diamond exchange in the Arab World affiliated to the World Federation of Diamond Bourses; Dubai Tea Trading Centre (DTTC) which offers a range of value-added facilities to the global tea trade and has contributed to the UAE becoming the world's largest re-exporter of tea; DMCC Tradeflow, a central registry of ownership for commodities stored in Dubai stimulating commodity trade by offering enforceable collateral based trade finance solutions; as well as other services, such as gold refineries, gold and diamond vaults; as well as the UAE gold bullion coins and the Visions of Dubai gold souvenir coins.\n\nBin Sulayem joined DMCC in 2001 as a director, prior to the official launch of the entity in 2002, and his responsibilities included overseeing the organisation’s operations. In addition to his responsibilities as Executive Chairman Bin Sulayem also serves as the Director of Human Resources, Director of Dubai Shariah Asset Management (DSAM) and Dubai Commodity Asset Management (DCAM).\n\nHe has also played a leading role in reviving Dubai’s traditional pearling industry by launching the Dubai Pearl Exchange in 2007 and conceptualizing the design of Almas Tower, the tallest commercial building in the Middle East, home to Dubai Diamond Exchange, one of the largest vaults in the UAE, and DMCC headquarters.\n\nIn April 2011, DMCC hosted the World Federation of Diamond Bourse's annual Presidents' meeting, an initiative spearheaded by Bin Sulayem. This event was the first of its kind to be held in the Arab world. In addition, on August 15, 2011, Bin Sulayem unveiled the prototype of the UAE's first gold bullion coin. The coin recognises the visionary leadership of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates and His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai. Designed by DMCC, the “Khalifa” coin features a portrait of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa on one side, and on the other, Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest tower.\n\nFollowing the announcement of its first gold UAE bullion coin in August 2011, on 2 December 2011, DMCC released the first design impressions of the second UAE bullion coin as part of DMCC’s celebration of the 40th anniversary of the UAE and in recognition of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai.\nTitled “Palm Jumeirah”, the gold coin features a portrait of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on one side, and on the other, an image of the iconic Palm Jumeirah. The coin is the second in a series and follows the “Burj Khalifa” coin which was successfully launched last August, and paid tribute to His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE.\n\nIn June 2012, Bin Sulayem received UN accreditation to represent Western Asia on behalf of CIBJO, the international jewellery confederation of national trade organisations. CIBJO has been a consultative member of ECOSOC, the United Nations Economic and Social Council, since 2006. ECOSOC is one of the largest agencies operating under the United Nations umbrella, and is a coalition involving government, civil society and the business community.\n\nIn June 2013, he received the Crowe Horwath Award for 'Government Personality of the Year. This was presented to Bin Sulayem for his role in the expansion of the global commodities sector; his commitment towards establishing Dubai as the global gateway to trade; DMCC’s contribution to Dubai’s economy through the over 7,400 companies operating from its free zone; his efforts in developing Dubai’s Islamic Finance sector through pioneering products and services; and his social and philanthropic work focused on society, culture and heritage.\n\nAlso in June 2013, Bin Sulayem became recognised as a prominent fan of the LA Lakers due to the full page advertisement he took out in the LA Times paying tribute to Kobe Bryant. The ad thanked Kobe Bryant for his contributions to the LA Lakers and wished him a speedy recovery. In September 2013, Bin Sulayem hosted Kobe Bryant's first trip to the UAE as part of the DMCC Kobe Bryant Health and Fitness Weekend where he also presented Bryant with a DMCC Free Zone license.\n\nIn December 2015, Bin Sulayem was appointed chair of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme for a one-year term.\n\nIn addition to his role at DMCC, Bin Sulayem is also Chairman of the Dubai Diamond Exchange, which is a DMCC platform. Bin Sulayem is also the Chairman of the Dubai Gold & Commodities Exchange (DGCX), which is a DMCC platform.\n\nBachelor’s degree in Business Administration, California State University – San Bernardino, 2000.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56153164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56153164", "title": "Aircraft recycling", "text": "Aircraft recycling\n\nAircraft recycling is the recycling industry of aircraft.\n\nEach year, 400 to 450 aircraft are scrapped and disassembled globally, for a $2 billion market for aircraft parts, and 12,500 aircraft will reach their end-of-life in the 20 years after 2009.\nOf those, around one third are parted out and disassembled by members of the AFRA. \nThe AFRA is an international non-profit association aiming to promote environmental best practices, regulatory excellence and sustainable developments in the fields of aircraft disassembly, as well as the salvaging and recycling aircraft parts and materials.\n\nRetirements peaked at more than 700 in 2013 and declined to about 500 in 2016 while strong demand and relatively low fuel prices keep older airliners flying, the in-service aircraft older than 15 years grew by more than 1,600 between 2013 and 2017.\nAs part prices were high in early 2018, some young, 15–20 years old A319 and A320s are being parted out.\nDecommissions should rise to 750 annually, 3,900 from 2018 through 2022, while manufacturers plan to ramp up deliveries to 2,200 aircraft in 2020.\n\nLessor Avolon count 2,100 aircraft are in storage in 2017 with 1,000 which shouldn't fly again: half are parked for more than three years and the other half is older than 25 years.\nA parked airplane may return to service if it's younger than 15 and aircraft parked over three years have a 50% chance of flying again, dropping to 20% for aircraft stored over five years.\nWith owners accepting their assets value, this 2,100 should remain constant as the global jet transport fleet doubles to 51,800 over the next 20 years with 43,000 new deliveries and 16,000 retirements projected through 2037.\n\nAirliners are typically operated for 20 to 30 years.\nCorrosion, metal fatigue, and low availability of new spare parts are problems encountered in greater frequency the older a machine becomes.\nEventually, these factors, alongside improvements in fuel-efficiency and reduction in maintenance cost of newer machines, reduce the economical viability of the operation of older airliners. \nConsequently, they may be stored, or scrapped and recycled.\nVast expanses of arid desert are ideal for storage because hangars are not needed to maintain the aircraft at low humidity. Upon arrival, aircraft are washed to remove corroding salt, drained of fuel and lubricated with a light viscous oil. Explosive devices from the evacuation slides are removed, air ducts sealed, and an easily removable protective coat of paint may be applied.\nSome airliners are kept in working order as reserves, and a few are involved in fire-fighting and aerospace training schemes or in safety tests.\n\nMost are used as source of spare parts and scrapped.\nThe scrapping process takes six weeks and begins with the removal of the explosive escape equipment and toxic de-icing fluid.\nSome components are unbolted and salvaged, including the engines and instruments, while the fuel is drained away.\n\nThe seats are worth from $450 to $5,000 and the landing gear can be sold for millions of dollars, although all parts need a Certificate of Airworthiness to be re-used. Cables, batteries and other electronic waste are fed into the conventional recycling chains.\nThe remaining shell is cut into pieces and broken down by an industrial shredder so that the aluminium can be melted down.\n\nThe scrap metal is ground up, mechanically sorted by density and magnetism, then sold to the trade.\nA future challenge for disposal is the construction of aircraft which use composite materials, such as aluminium/fibreglass GLARE in the Airbus A380.\nThere are also concerns about contamination with alloys and the dumping of non-recyclable materials.\n\nAn airliner can be dismantled in 1,500-2,000 parts (1,000 or so LRUs) in 30–60 days including engines, landing gear, auxiliary power units and components but it can be parked a year or two to maximise the part harvesting.\nA metal aircraft can be recycled up to 85-90% by mass with a 95% goal, and 85-90% could be maintained for composite airframes as the industry adapts with a carbonfibre market growing 12-14% a year towards 100,000t in 2019 of which 50% could be satisfied with recycled material.\n\nThe Davis–Monthan Air Force Base in Arizona is home to 4,400 retired aircraft, chiefly military, and the Mojave Air and Space Port stores over 1000 civilian planes.\nPurpose-built recycling platforms may be used, such as those of Bartin Aero Recycling at Châteauroux-Déols airport in France, Air Salvage International at Cotswold Airport, UK, and the Evergreen Aircenter, in Marana, US. Airbus has set up a centre in Tarbes Airport in France to research the decommission and recycling of older aircraft as part of the PAMELA Project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58496406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58496406", "title": "Al Bayan Holding Group", "text": "Al Bayan Holding Group\n\nAl Bayan Holding Group (Arabic: مجموعة البيان القابضة) is a group of companies and one of the leading businesses based in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and in Kuwait City, Kuwait. According to \"Reuters\", in 2013, it became the first Saudi Arabian company to issue an Islamic bond in Malaysian ringgit. The same news was also published by \"Saudi Gazette\". As part of the 1 billion Malaysian ringgit investment programme, Al Bayan kicked off the deal by pumping 200 million Malaysian ringgit. The Company, through its subsidiaries, provides services including real estate development and management, information and telecommunications, printing and packaging, logistics, and supply and trading. In 2016, Bahrain's \"Trade Arabia\" reported that Spain's Telepizza signed off a franchisee deal with Al Bayan Holding Group in order to establish one of three Kingdom's branches in Riyadh.\nIn 2014, Al Bayan Holding Group signed a $70 million syndicated Islamic term financing facility with a group of leading regional and international banks. In 2012, \"Asharq Al-Awsat\" informed that Dr. Al Hammad was operating 20 companies in Saudi Arabia and in Gulf Cooperation Council, including Aloula Geojit Company.\n\nIn 2005, \"Al Riyadh\" reported that Al Bayan Holding Group's Chairman Dr. Abdul Rahman Al Hammad signed a commercial advertising deal with Minister Iyad bin Amin Madani of Minister of Culture and Information.\n\nIn 2012, \"Al-Riyadh\" reported that the administration of King Abdullah Al Saud officially granted Al Bayan Holding Group to organize the annual Al Jenadriyah festival in Riyadh.\n\nIn 2013, \"Al Jazirah\" reported that the then Governor of Riyadh, Prince Khalid bin Bandar bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, awarded Dr. Al Hammad for the excellent work done by DNGO Contracting Company, one of the entitites of Al Bayan Holding Group for implementing the project of strengthening of water resources in Riyadh.\nIn 2015, \"Saudi Gazette\" reported that Dr. Al Hammad was appointed as the new Vice Chairman of Saudi Cooperative Societies Council on 22 November 2014 by Prince Saud bin Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud. However, the incumbency of Dr. Al Hammad's position is disputed after the 2017 crisis when Malaysia's RAM suspended Al Bayan Holding Group's ratings.\n\nIn 2014, Hilton Hotels & Resorts signed a deal with Al Bayan Holding Group's Dar Al Bayan Real Estate firm in order to launch a hotel in Jubail, Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn March 2017, Malaysia's \"The Star\" reported that Malaysian RAM Rating Services of RAM Holdings Berhad, Kuala Lumpur suspended the rating of the RM1bil Sukuk Wakalah (2013/2023) issued by Al Bayan Holding Company following the group’s failure to meet certain obligations under RAM’s rating mandate. This resulted the escalation of Al Bayan's financial crisis. \nAfter the suspension of RAM ratings, it was reported that many firms started to withdrew their contracts and agreements with Al Bayan Holding Group, indicating that there is a financial crisis undergoing in Al Bayan.\n\nIt was reported that the Saudi government arrested co-owners of Al Bayan Holding Group in November 2017, including Dr. Abdul Rahman Al Hammad, following Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman's launch of 2017 Anti-Corruption Drive. However, these suspicions and allegations didn't appeared in the local press of Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn December 2017, an Egyptian expatriate calling himself as an employee of Al Bayan Holding Group uploaded a video on YouTube where he explained about his mental harassment in the firm via the four co-owners. He also requested the arrest of co-owners and clearance of his dues through intervention of King Salman Al SaudThe same person uploaded a video in late December 2017 or early January 2018 where he records a footage through his mobile phone in which he shows a group of stranded employees of DNGO Contracting Company and Nahdaat Al Emaar, the two subsidiaries of Al Bayan Holding Group without their dues and salaries calling for justice.\n\nIn early January 2017, an person informing himself as an engineer assigned at Al Bayan Holding Group recorded a footage via his mobile phone and later uploaded it on YouTube. In the video, he had shown that employees holding banners are on strike against the firm as some of them didn't receive their dues and salaries from the past 13 months. The same engineer uploaded a video in the same month of January where he shows stranded expatriates who didn't received their salaries for more than six months on strike against the firm at the Al Bayan's project site in 'Asir Region.\n\nAn another expatriate in Al Bayan Holding Group uploaded a video on YouTube in February 2018 requesting justice from King Salman Al Saud and Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman Al Saud after he didn't received his salary for more than 12 months.\n"}
{"id": "36766055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36766055", "title": "Andrei Korobeinik", "text": "Andrei Korobeinik\n\nAndrei Korobeinik (born 5 November 1980) is an Estonian computer programmer and entrepreneur, founder and CEO of Rate Solutions and Serenda Invest. He is better known as creator of Estonian social networking site, Rate.ee. Between 2011 and 2013 he was a member of the Estonian parliament.\n\nIn 2005, 51% share of the Rate.ee portal was sold to EMT for 39 million Estonian Krones (approximately 2 million EURO), making Andrei one of the youngest Estonian millionaires of that time. However, in 2012 Serenda Invest; a company that manages Rate.ee was purchased back from EMT which essentially put Andrei back in charge of his web portal. The price of this deal has not been revealed.\n\nKorobeinik is the winner of 2008 British Council's International Young Interactive Entrepreneur Award. He is the member of Estonian Dragon's Den jury and does angel investments, mostly into internet start-ups.\n\nKorobeinik has been on the jury at the annual Estonian TV show Ajujaht.\n\nKorobeinik graduated from Pärnu Russian Gymnasium in 1998, same year he started with his undergraduate studies at University of Tartu in maths and information technology.\n\nIn 2010, he started a new project Cutefund.com. Cutefund.com is a crowdsourced mutual fund, designed to buy and sell stock on behalf of investors. Cutefund.com is currently awaiting for a license to trade stock, until then users can register and compete with each other for free in demo mode. Korobeinik is the author of idea for Flirtic.com, a dating website popular in Eastern Europe and Russia.\n\nIn the Estonian parliamentary election, 2011, Korobeinik ran for Riigikogu membership for Pärnu County. He got 2057 votes but did not make it to the Parliament. He became a member of the Estonian Parliament starting on 6 April 2011, replacing Rein Lang who went to serve as the Minister of Culture of Estonia. When Lang step down on December 4, 2013, Korobeinik lost his place in the Parliament. Korobeinik was a chairman of e-parliament committee.\n\nHe is a chess player, and on 20 November 2011 was elected as president of Estonian Chess Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "45442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45442", "title": "Autarky", "text": "Autarky\n\nAutarky is the quality of being self-sufficient; the term is usually applied to political states or their economic systems. Autarky exists whenever an entity can survive or continue its activities without external assistance or international trade. If a self-sufficient economy also \"refuses\" all trade with the outside world then it is called a closed economy. The term \"closed economy\" is also used technically as an abstraction to allow consideration of a single economy without taking foreign trade into account – i.e. as the antonym of open economy. Autarky in the political sense is not necessarily an economic phenomenon; for example, a military autarky would be a state that could defend itself without help from another country, or could manufacture all of its weapons without any imports from the outside world.\n\nAutarky as an ideal or method has been embraced by a wide range of political ideologies and movements, especially left-wing creeds like African socialism, mutualism, council communism, syndicalism (especially anarcho-syndicalism) and leftist populism. It has also been used in temporary, limited ways by conservative, centrist and nationalist movements, such as the American system, the Meiji Restoration, social corporatism, Juche, and traditionalist conservatism. Fascist and far-right movements occasionally claimed to strive for autarky in platform or propaganda, but in practice crushed existing movements towards self-sufficiency and maintained extensive capital connections in efforts to ready for expansionist war and genocide while allying with traditional business elites.\n\nAutarky may be a policy of a state or other entity when it seeks to be self-sufficient as a whole, but also can be limited to a narrow field such as possession of a key raw material. For example, many countries have a policy of autarky with respect to foodstuffs and water for national security reasons. By contrast, autarky may be a result of economic isolation or external circumstances in which a state or other entity reverts to localized production when it lacks currency or excess production to trade with the outside world.\n\nThe word \"autarky\" is from the , which means \"self-sufficiency\" (derived from αὐτο-, \"self,\" and ἀρκέω, \"to suffice\"). The term is sometimes confused with autocracy (Greek: αὐτoκρατία \"government by single absolute ruler\") or autarchy (Greek: αὐταρχία – the idea of rejecting government and ruling oneself and no other).\n\nEarly state societies that can be regarded as autarkic include nomadic pastoralism and palace economy, though over time these tend towards becoming less self-sufficient and more interconnected. The late Bronze Age, for example, saw formerly self-sufficient palace economies rely more heavily on trade, which may have been a contributing factor to the eventual Bronze Age Collapse when multiple crises hit those systems at once.\n\nMedieval communes combined an attempt at overall economic self-sufficiency through the use of common lands and resources with mutual defense pacts against the depredations of the local nobility. Many of these communes later became trading powers such as the Hanseatic League. In some cases, communal village economies maintained their own debt system as part of a self-sufficient economy and to avoid reliance on possibly hostile aristocratic or business interests.\n\nAutarkic ambitions can also be seen in the Populist backlash to the exploitations of free trade in the late 19th-century and in many early Utopian Socialist movements. Mutual aid societies like the Grange and Sovereigns of Industry attempted to set up self-sufficient economies (with varying degrees of success) in an effort to be less dependent on what they saw as an exploitative economic system and to generate more power to push for reforms.\n\nEarly socialist movements used these autarkic efforts to build their base with institutions like the Bourse de travail, socialist canteens and food assistance. These played a major role in securing workers' loyalty and building those parties into increasingly powerful institutions (especially in Europe) throughout the late 19th and early 20th-centuries. Through these cooperatives \"workers bought Socialist bread and Socialist shoes, drank Socialist beer, arranged for Socialist vacations and obtained a Socialist education.\"\n\nLocal and regional farming autarkies in many areas of Africa and Southeast Asia were displaced by European colonial administrations in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, who sought to push smallholder villages into larger plantations that, while less productive, they could more easily control.\n\nCommunist movements embraced or dismissed autarky as a goal at different times. Some socialist communities like Charles Fourier's phalansteres strove for self-sufficiency. The early USSR in the Russian Civil War strove for a self-sufficient economy with War Communism, but later pursued international trade vigorously under the New Economic Policy. However, while the Soviet government during the latter period encouraged some international trade, it also permitted and even encouraged local autarkies in many peasant villages.\n\nRight-wing totalitarian governments that have claimed to strive for autarky have often pursued a very different policy in fact, just as some claimed to be in favor of socialism while killing socialists. In 1921 Italian Fascists attacked existing left-wing autarkic projects at the behest of large landowners, destroying roughly 119 labor chambers, 107 cooperatives and 83 peasant offices that year alone. Nazi Germany under economics minister Hjalmar Schacht claimed to strive for self-sufficiency but pursued major international trade, albeit under a different system, to escape the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. The regime would continue to conduct trade, including with countries like the United States, including connections with major companies like IBM and Coca-Cola.\n\nEconomic self-sufficiency was pursued as a goal by some members of the Non-Aligned Movement, such as India under Jawaharlal Nehru and Tanzania, under the ideology of Ujamaa and swadeshi. hat was partly an effort to escape the economic domination of both the United States and the Soviet Union while modernizing the countries' infrastructure.\n\nSmall-scale autarkies were sometimes used by the Civil Rights Movement, such as in the case of the Montgomery Bus Boycott, where boycotters set up their own self-sufficient system of cheap or free transit to allow black residents to get to work and avoid using the then-segregated public systems in a successful effort to bring political pressure.\n\nAfter World War II, Autonomist efforts in Europe embraced autarkic projects in an effort to craft anti-authoritarian left-wing spaces, especially influencing the social center and squatters' rights movements. Such efforts remain a common feature of Autonomist and anarchist movements on the continent today. The Micropolis social centre in Greece, for example, has gyms, restaurants, bars, meeting space and free distribution of food and resources.\n\nAround 1970, the Black Panther Party moved away from communist internationalism towards \"intercommunalism,\" a term coined by Huey P. Newton, \"to retain a grasp on the local when the rest of radical thought seemed to be moving global.\" Intercommunalism drew from left-wing autarkic projects like free medical clinics and breakfast programs, \"explicitly articulated as attempts to fill a void left by the failure of the federal government to provide resources as basic as food to black communities.\"\n\nAutarkic efforts to counter forcible privatization of public resources and maintain local self-sufficiency also formed a key part of alter-globalization efforts. The Cochabamba Water War had Bolivians successfully oppose the privatization of their water system to keep the resource in public hands.\n\nToday, national economic autarkies are relatively rare. A commonly-cited example is North Korea, based on the government ideology of Juche (self-sufficiency), which is concerned with maintaining its domestic localized economy in the face of its isolation. However, even North Korea has extensive trade with Russia, China, Syria, Iran, Vietnam, and many countries in Europe and Africa. North Korea had to import food during a widespread famine in the 1990s.\n\nA better modern example at a societal level is the autonomous region of Rojava, the autonomous northern region of Syria. Cut off from international trade, facing multiple enemies, and striving for a society based on democratic confederalism and the ideals of Murray Bookchin, Rojava's government and constitution emphasize economic self-sufficiency directed by neighborhood and village councils, with property and business belonging to those who live in or use it towards that goal.\n\nAn example of an contemporary effort at localized autarky, incorporating the concept's history from black nationalism, Ujamaa and African-American socialism and the civil rights movement, is Cooperation Jackson, a movement aimed at creating a self-sufficient black working class economy in Jackson, Mississippi. The movement has aimed to secure land and build self-sufficient cooperatives and workplaces \"to democratically transform the political economy of the city\" and push back against gentrification. Cooperation Jackson also saw a gain in electoral political power when its involvement proved pivotal to the 2013 mayoral election of Chokwe Lumumba and the 2017 election of his son, Chokwe Antar Lumumba.\n\n• Ujamaa\n\n\n"}
{"id": "769021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=769021", "title": "Bioavailability", "text": "Bioavailability\n\nIn pharmacology, bioavailability (BA or F ) is a subcategory of absorption and is the fraction of an administered dose of unchanged drug that reaches the systemic circulation, one of the principal pharmacokinetic properties of drugs. By definition, when a medication is administered intravenously, its bioavailability is 100%. However, when a medication is administered via other routes (such as orally), its bioavailability generally decreases (due to incomplete absorption and first-pass metabolism) or may vary from patient to patient. Bioavailability is one of the essential tools in pharmacokinetics, as bioavailability must be considered when calculating dosages for non-intravenous routes of administration.\n\nFor dietary supplements, herbs and other nutrients in which the route of administration is nearly always oral, bioavailability generally designates simply the quantity or fraction of the ingested dose that is absorbed.\n\nBioavailability is defined slightly differently for drugs as opposed to dietary supplements primarily due to the method of administration and Food and Drug Administration regulations.\n\nIn pharmacology, bioavailability is a measurement of the rate and extent to which a drug reaches at the site of action.\nIt is denoted by the letter \"f\" (or, if expressed in percent, by \"F\").\n\nIn nutritional sciences, which covers the intake of nutrients and non-drug dietary ingredients, the concept of bioavailability lacks the well-defined standards associated with the pharmaceutical industry. The pharmacological definition cannot apply to these substances because utilization and absorption is a function of the nutritional status and physiological state of the subject, resulting in even greater differences from individual to individual (inter-individual variation). Therefore, bioavailability for dietary supplements can be defined as the proportion of the administered substance capable of being absorbed and available for use or storage.\n\nIn both pharmacology and nutrition sciences, bioavailability is measured by calculating the area under curve (AUC) of the drug concentration time profile.\n\nBioavailability is the measure by which various substances in the environment may enter into living organisms. It is commonly a limiting factor in the production of crops (due to solubility limitation or adsorption of plant nutrients to soil colloids) and in the removal of toxic substances from the food chain by microorganisms (due to sorption to or partitioning of otherwise degradable substances into inaccessible phases in the environment). A noteworthy example for agriculture is plant phosphorus deficiency induced by precipitation with iron and aluminum phosphates at low soil pH and precipitation with calcium phosphates at high soil pH. Toxic materials in soil, such as lead from paint may be rendered unavailable to animals ingesting contaminated soil by supplying phosphorus fertilizers in excess. Organic pollutants such as solvents or pesticides may be rendered unavailable to microorganisms and thus persist in the environment when they are adsorbed to soil minerals or partition into hydrophobic organic matter.\n\nAbsolute bioavailability compares the bioavailability of the active drug in systemic circulation following non-intravenous administration (i.e., after oral, ocular, rectal, transdermal, subcutaneous, or sublingual administration), with the bioavailability of the same drug following intravenous administration. It is the fraction of the drug absorbed through non-intravenous administration compared with the corresponding intravenous administration of the same drug. The comparison must be dose normalized (e.g., account for different doses or varying weights of the subjects); consequently, the amount absorbed is corrected by dividing the corresponding dose administered.\n\nIn pharmacology, in order to determine absolute bioavailability of a drug, a pharmacokinetic study must be done to obtain a \"plasma drug concentration vs time\" plot for the drug after both intravenous (iv) and extravascular (non-intravenous, i.e., oral) administration. The absolute bioavailability is the dose-corrected area under curve (\"AUC\") non-intravenous divided by \"AUC\" intravenous. The formula for calculating the absolute bioavailability, \"F\", of a drug administered orally (po) is given below (where \"D\" is dose administered).\n\nTherefore, a drug given by the intravenous route will have an absolute bioavailability of 100% (\"f\" = 1), whereas drugs given by other routes usually have an absolute bioavailability of \"less\" than one.\nIf we compare the two different dosage forms having same active ingredients and compare the two drug bioavailability is called comparative bioavailability.\n\nAlthough knowing the true extent of systemic absorption (referred to as absolute bioavailability) is clearly useful, in practice it is not determined as frequently as one may think. The reason for this is that its assessment requires an \"intravenous reference\"; that is, a route of administration that guarantees all of the administered drug reaches systemic circulation. Such studies come at considerable cost, not least of which is the necessity to conduct preclinical toxicity tests to ensure adequate safety, as well as potential problems due to solubility limitations. These limitations may be overcome, however, by administering a very low dose (typically a few micrograms) of an isotopically labelled drug concomitantly with a therapeutic non-isotopically labelled oral dose (the isotopically-labelled intravenous dose is sufficiently low so as not to perturb the systemic drug concentrations achieved from the non-labelled oral dose). The intravenous and oral concentrations can then be deconvoluted by virtue of their different isotopic constitution, and can thus be used to determine the oral and intravenous pharmacokinetics from the same dose administration. This technique eliminates pharmacokinetic issues with non-equivalent clearance as well as enabling the intravenous dose to be administered with a minimum of toxicology and formulation. The technique was first applied using stable-isotopes such as C and mass-spectrometry to distinguish the isotopes by mass difference. More recently, C labelled drugs are administered intravenously and accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS) used to measure the isotopically labelled drug along with mass spectrometry for the unlabelled drug.\n\nThere is no regulatory requirement to define the intravenous pharmacokinetics or absolute bioavailability however regulatory authorities do sometimes ask for absolute bioavailability information of the extravascular route in cases in which the bioavailability is apparently low or variable and there is a proven relationship between the pharmacodynamics and the pharmacokinetics at therapeutic doses. In all such cases, to conduct an absolute bioavailability study requires that the drug be given intravenously.\n\nIntravenous administration of a developmental drug can provide valuable information on the fundamental pharmacokinetic parameters of volume of distribution (\"V\") and clearance (\"CL\").\n\nIn pharmacology, relative bioavailability measures the bioavailability (estimated as the \"AUC\") of a formulation (A) of a certain drug when compared with another formulation (B) of the same drug, usually an established standard, or through administration via a different route. When the standard consists of intravenously administered drug, this is known as absolute bioavailability (see above).\n\nRelative bioavailability is one of the measures used to assess bioequivalence (\"BE\") between two drug products. For FDA approval, a generic manufacturer must demonstrate that the 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the mean responses (usually of \"AUC\" and the maximum concentration, \"C\") of its product to that of the \"brand name drug\" is within the limits of 80% to 125%. Where \"AUC\" refers to the concentration of the drug in the blood over time \"t\" = 0 to \"t\" = ∞, \"C\" refers to the maximum concentration of the drug in the blood. When \"T\" is given, it refers to the time it takes for a drug to reach \"C\".\n\nWhile the mechanisms by which a formulation affects bioavailability and bioequivalence have been extensively studied in drugs, formulation factors that influence bioavailability and bioequivalence in nutritional supplements are largely unknown. As a result, in nutritional sciences, relative bioavailability or bioequivalence is the most common measure of bioavailability, comparing the bioavailability of one formulation of the same dietary ingredient to another.\n\nThe absolute bioavailability of a drug, when administered by an extravascular route, is usually less than one (i.e., \"F\"< 100%). Various physiological factors reduce the availability of drugs prior to their entry into the systemic circulation. Whether a drug is taken with or without food will also affect absorption, other drugs taken concurrently may alter absorption and first-pass metabolism, intestinal motility alters the dissolution of the drug and may affect the degree of chemical degradation of the drug by intestinal microflora. Disease states affecting liver metabolism or gastrointestinal function will also have an effect.\n\nOther factors may include, but are not limited to:\n\nEach of these factors may vary from patient to patient (inter-individual variation), and indeed in the same patient over time (intra-individual variation). In clinical trials, inter-individual variation is a critical measurement used to assess the bioavailability differences from patient to patient in order to ensure predictable dosing.\n\nIn comparison to drugs, there are significant differences in dietary supplements that impact the evaluation of their bioavailability. These differences include the following: the fact that nutritional supplements provide benefits that are variable and often qualitative in nature; the measurement of nutrient absorption lacks the precision; nutritional supplements are consumed for prevention and well-being; nutritional supplements do not exhibit characteristic dose-response curves; and dosing intervals of nutritional supplements, therefore, are not critical in contrast to drug therapy.\n\nIn addition, the lack of defined methodology and regulations surrounding the consumption of dietary supplements hinders the application of bioavailability measures in comparison to drugs. In clinical trials with dietary supplements, bioavailability primarily focuses on statistical descriptions of mean or average AUC differences between treatment groups, while often failing to compare or discuss their standard deviations or inter-individual variation. This failure leaves open the question of whether or not an individual in a group is likely to experience the benefits described by the mean-difference comparisons. Further, even if this issue were discussed, it would be difficult to communicate meaning of these inter-subject variances to consumers and/or their physicians.\n\nOne way to resolve this problem is to define \"reliable bioavailability\" as positive bioavailability results (an absorption meeting a predefined criterion) that include 84% of the trial subjects and \"universal bioavailability\" as those that include 98% of the trial subjects. This reliable-universal framework would improve communications with physicians and consumers such that, if it were included on products labels for example, make educated choices as to the benefits of a formulation for them directly. In addition, the reliable-universal framework is similar to the construction of confidence intervals, which statisticians have long offered as one potential solution for dealing with small samples, violations of statistical assumptions or large standard deviations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "525251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=525251", "title": "Blank cheque", "text": "Blank cheque\n\nA blank cheque (US: blank check) or carte blanche, in the literal sense, is a cheque that has no monetary value written in, but is already signed. In the figurative sense, it is used to describe a situation in which an agreement has been made that is open-ended or vague, and therefore subject to abuse, or in which a party is willing to consider any expense in the pursuance of their goals.\n\nCheque writers are advised to specify the amount of the cheque before signing it. A blank cheque can be extremely expensive for the drawer who writes the cheque, because whoever obtains the cheque could write in any amount of money, and might be able to cash it (if the current account (US: checking account) contains sufficient funds, and depending on the laws in the specific country). Under American law, a blank cheque is an example of an \"\" as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code's Article 3, Section 115 (a). Writing an amount in a blank cheque, without the authority of the signer, is an \"alteration\". It is legally equivalent to changing the numbers on a completed (non-blank) cheque.\n\nIn finance, a \"blank cheque company\" refers to a company in development that has no specific business plan, such as a special purpose acquisition company.\n\n\n\nSir Arthur Conan Doyle used the term \"carte blanche\" in several of his Sherlock Holmes stories.\n\n"}
{"id": "2449208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2449208", "title": "Broadway (Los Angeles)", "text": "Broadway (Los Angeles)\n\nBroadway is a major thoroughfare in central Los Angeles and Los Angeles County, southern California. The Broadway Theater District in Downtown Los Angeles is the first and largest historic theater and cinema district listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBroadway begins at Main Street just north of the San Diego Freeway (Interstate 405). From there it runs north from South Los Angeles to Downtown, connecting Carson, Rosewood, and Athens.\n\nAfter entering Downtown, it passes through Broadway's historic commercial district and theatre district, then enters the Los Angeles Civic Center and passes through Grand Park.\n\nAfter crossing the Hollywood Freeway (US 101) and Cesar Chavez Avenue, signs along the street change to read \"North Broadway\" as it enters Chinatown and then passes through the Dragon Gate and Central Plaza. It then curves northeast, passing through the old railyards north of Downtown Los Angeles. After crossing the Golden State Freeway (Interstate 5) it heads due east to its terminus at Mission Road in Lincoln Heights.\n\nBroadway is one of the oldest streets in the city, it was laid out as part of the 1849 plan of Los Angeles made by Lieutenant Edward Ord and named Fort Street. Fort Street began at the south side of Fort Moore Hill (a block north of Temple Street) at Sand Street (later California Street).\n\nIn 1890, the name of Fort Street, from 1st Street to 10th Street, was changed to Broadway. The rest of Fort Street, from California Street to 1st Street, was changed to North Broadway.\n\nProposal for opening Broadway through to Buena Vista Street (now North Broadway), and extending the street south into what was then part of Main Street, below Tenth Street, in order to give a continuous, wide thoroughfare from the southern city limits to the Eastside, was made as early as February 1891.\nThe Broadway Tunnel under Fort Moore Hill was opened in 1901, extending North Broadway to Buena Vista Street at Bellevue Avenue (later Sunset Boulevard, now Cesar Chavez Avenue). A section of Broadway in South Los Angeles was originally named Moneta Avenue until 1923.\n\nIn 1909, construction on a bridge across the Los Angeles River was begun to connect Buena Vista Street to Downey Avenue, which ran from the river to Mission Road. The names of Buena Vista and Downey were then changed to North Broadway, but not without significant objections from affected residents and landowners. The bridge, which continued to be referred to as the Buena Vista Street Bridge for a good while, was opened to traffic in late September 1911.\n\nFor more than 50 years, Broadway from 1st Street to Olympic Boulevard was the main commercial street of Los Angeles, and one of its premier theater and movie palace districts as well. It contains a vast number of historic buildings and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBefore World War II, Broadway was considered by many to be the center of the city, where residents went to ornate movie palaces and live theaters, and shopped at major department stores and shops. Some historically significant buildings include the Bradbury Building, United Artists Theater, and the \"Los Angeles Examiner\" building designed by Julia Morgan.\nSome of the movie theaters on the street fell into disuse and disrepair, some were replaced with parking lots, but many have been repurposed and/or restored. The department stores closed in the 1970s and 1980s, but Broadway has been the premier shopping destination for working class Latinos for decades. The Downtown's real estate revitalization, using the City's adaptive reuse ordinance that makes it easier for developers to convert outmoded and/or vacant office and commercial buildings into residential buildings, has reached the Broadway Historic District. It includes the transformation of the United Artists Theater office tower into the Ace Hotel Los Angeles, and restoration of its movie palace.\n\nThe Bringing Back Broadway commission is working on further reviving the landmark Los Angeles boulevard in the historic district. Led by City Councilman Jose Huizar, the commission has recommended widening sidewalks, eliminating traffic lanes, constructing new parking structures, and bringing back streetcar service reminiscent of the street's past. A pedestrian-friendly project finished up in December 2014 that widened the sidewalks and replaced the parking lane with planters, chairs and round cafe tables with bright-red umbrellas. The Great Streets Initiative seeks to bolster the street-level health of the city by making several dozen boulevards more hospitable to pedestrians, cyclists and small businesses. Mayor Eric Garcetti said the effort represents \"a shift from the way that our neighborhoods have been planned in Los Angeles,\" with a new focus on \"walkability and transit.\"\n\nBetween Third Street and Olympic Boulevard are a dozen historic theaters known as the Broadway Theater District—the largest surviving collection of pre-WWII movie palaces in the United States, including the 1918 Million Dollar Theater, the first Los Angeles movie palace built by Sid Grauman, the 1931 Los Angeles Theatre and the 1926 Orpheum Theatre.\n\n\n\nHistoric Broadway station is an under-construction light rail subway station in the Los Angeles County Metro Rail system. The station is located near the intersection of 2nd Street and Broadway The station is directly across the street from the Los Angeles Times Building, and is a block from the historic Broadway Theater District. Will be serviced by the North/South route Blue Line and the East/West route Gold Line.\n\nMetro Local lines 2, 4, 30, 40, 45 and 330 operate on Broadway, as well as Metro Rapid line 745. Most of those only serve Broadway in Downtown, but Line 45 serves the majority of Broadway from Lincoln Heights southwards. Line 745 serves Broadway from Cesar Chavez Avenue, through Downtown, to the Imperial Highway.\n\nIn South Los Angeles, there are five Metro Silver Line Stations along the Harbor Transitway, a dedicated rapid transit busway just west of Broadway: \n\nThe Harbor Transitway is located in the median of the Harbor Freeway (Interstate 110), running between South Broadway South Figueroa Street from South Los Angeles to the Harbor Gateway Transit Center near Long Beach. Other Metro bus lines, and other transit agencies' bus routes also operate on the Harbor Transitway, and/or have street level transfer connections at the Metro stations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25788806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25788806", "title": "CenterPoint Properties", "text": "CenterPoint Properties\n\nCenterPoint Properties is a company that invests primarily in real estate used for intermodal freight transport. The company owns 325 buildings containing 58 million square feet, including the CenterPoint Intermodal Center, the Chicago International Produce Market and the Kansas City Plant. The company is owned by a joint venture between CalPERS and LaSalle Investment Management.\n\nIn 1984, the company was launched as Capital and Regional Properties Corporation, the U.S. subsidiary of Capital and Regional plc.\n\nIn 1993, the company acquired FCLS Investors Group and became a public company via an initial public offering.\n\nIn March 2001, the company began development of the $58 million, 436,000 square foot Chicago International Produce Market.\n\nIn July 2001, the company invested $56 million in 9 suburban buildings and sold an apartment complex, 4 industrial buildings and a 42-acre land parcel in Aurora, Illinois for $48 million.\n\nIn October 2001, the company began development of O'Hare Express North.\n\nIn 2001, Michael M. Mullen became president and chief operating officer of the company. In 2004, he was promoted to chief executive officer.\n\nIn 2002, the company broke ground on an automotive supplier manufacturing campus in partnership with Ford Motor Company.\n\nIn 2006, the co-chairman of the company, John Gates Jr., came under scrutiny for his part ownership in 2 corporate jets with one of the company's top vendors.\n\nIn 2006, the company was acquired by a joint venture between CalPERS and LaSalle Investment Management.\n\nIn 2008, the company began construction of the CenterPoint Intermodal Center, a 3,600 acre facility that cost $1.26 billion and opened in 2010. The company also began construction of the CenterPoint-KCS Intermodal Center in partnership with Kansas City Southern Railroad at the former Richards-Gebaur Air Force Base.\n\nIn 2010, the company partnered with Zimmer Real Estate Services to begin redevelopment the Kansas City Plant pursuant to a lease with the General Services Administration on behalf of the National Nuclear Security Administration. In 2014, the company began an environmental review of the site.\n\nIn 2011, Mullen retired as chief executive officer and was replaced by Paul Fisher, president of the company.\n\nIn May 2015, the company broke ground on a 450,660-square-foot speculative building at the CenterPoint-KCS Intermodal Center.\n\nIn September 2015, Caterpillar Inc. announced that it may end production at its hydraulics plant in Joliet, Illinois that is leased from the company until 2018.\n"}
{"id": "47774977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47774977", "title": "Chris Gorell Barnes", "text": "Chris Gorell Barnes\n\nChristopher Michael Jack Gorell Barnes (born May 1974) is an English digital entrepreneur and marine conservationist best known as executive producer of the award-winning documentary \"\".\n\nGorell Barnes was born to Henry Gorell Barnes (1939-1983), merchant banker and a director of Morgan Grenfell, and Gillian (née Carruthers), a therapist. His paternal grandfather was Sir William Lethbridge Gorell Barnes (1909-1987), a War Cabinet official later of the Treasury and Colonial Office (where he was Deputy Under Secretary of State from 1959 to 1963), and who had been Personal Assistant to Prime Minister Clement Attlee from 1946 to 1948. His paternal great-grandfather was Sir Frederic Gorell Barnes (1856-1939), M.P. for Faversham, Kent from 1895-1900, Assistant Food Commissioner and Commissioner of the Education and Propaganda Branch of the Ministry of Food from 1918 to 1921. The Gorell Barnes family were of Ashgate House, Ashgate, Derbyshire, with the Barons Gorell descending from Henry, elder brother of Chris Gorell Barnes's ancestor Charles (1818-1886; of Mossley Hill, Lancashire, J.P., a merchant). The politician and colliery owner Alfred Barnes was the youngest brother of Henry and Charles.\n\nGorell Barnes was raised at Maida Vale, and studied at Bedales and the European Business School at Regent's University London.\n\nGorell Barnes founded a digital content agency called Adjust Your Set in 2008.\nHe was named by the \"London Evening Standard\" newspaper in 2013 as one of the most powerful 'Tech Stars' in the UK. Adjust Your Set was named in New Media Age's Top 100 Interactive Agencies 2010 as 'one to watch' and in 2011 it was named as a winner in the Brightcove Online Video Innovation Awards.\nGorell Barnes has sat on the board of Eagle Eye Solutions, a digital consumerism business, since 2007. Other board members include Sir Terry Leahy, former Tesco chief executive.\n\nGorell Barnes was executive producer for \"The End of the Line\", a documentary film that changed attitudes towards seafood, including among companies such as Pret A Manger and Marks & Spencer.\nIt won the inaugural Puma Creative Impact Award in 2011 for its success in changing consumer behaviour.\n\nA study by the BRITDOC Foundation found that it had been seen by more than one million people and had created press and media attention worth more than £4 million. The film was described by the \"Chicago Tribune\" as \"an apocalyptic documentary that is as beautiful as it is damning\".\n\nIn 2009, Gorell Barnes and fellow producer George Duffield founded a marine conservation charity, the Blue Marine Foundation which aims to create marine reserves. In 2010 it brokered a deal that created a huge marine reserve around the Chagos Islands and two years later one that protected the waters around Turneffe Atoll in the Caribbean. Among its supporters are Helena Bonham Carter.\n\nGorell Barnes lives in London with his long-term partner Martha Lane Fox, Baroness Lane-Fox of Soho, co-founder of lastminute.com. Their identical twin sons, Milo and Felix, were born in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "36735947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36735947", "title": "Cities in Motion 2", "text": "Cities in Motion 2\n\nCities in Motion 2 is a 2013 business simulation game that was developed by Colossal Order and published by Paradox Interactive and is the sequel to the popular mass transit simulation game \"Cities in Motion\". As with its predecessor, the goal of the game is to create efficient public transport systems in different major cities of the world. In this edition, there are several new features that the developers introduced based on community feedback about the previous game, including day/night cycles, rush hours and the ability to create timetables. The additions also include dynamic cities where players' decisions have a notable impact on city growth, and the inclusion of cooperative and competitive multi-player.\n\n\"Cities in Motion 2\" was announced for Linux on 3 January 2014.\n\n\"Cites in Motion 2\" received mixed reviews. It holds a Metacritic score of 72 (based on 15 reviews), with many critics citing the game's lack of a smooth interface and steep learning curve as the two biggest problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "8017558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8017558", "title": "Continuous-flow manufacturing", "text": "Continuous-flow manufacturing\n\nContinuous-flow manufacturing, or Repetitive-Flow Manufacturing, is an approach to discrete manufacturing that contrasts with batch production. It is associated with a just-in-time and kanban production approach, and calls for an ongoing examination and improvement efforts which ultimately requires integration of all elements of the production system. The goal is an optimally balanced production line with little waste, the lowest possible cost, on-time and defect-free production.\n\nThis strategy is typically applied in discrete manufacturing as an attempt to handle production volumes comprising discrete units of product in a flow which is more naturally found in process manufacturing. The basic fact is that in most cases, discrete units of a solid product cannot be handled in the same way as continuous quantities of liquid, gas or powder.\n\nDiscrete manufacturing is more likely to be performed in batches of product units that are routed from process to process in the factory. Each process may add value to the batch during a run-time or work-time. There is usually some time spent waiting for the process during a queue-time or wait-time. The larger the batch, the longer each unit has to wait for the rest of the batch to be completed, before it can go forward to the next process. This queue-time is waste, Muda (Japanese term), and represents time lost that is not value-added in the eyes of the customer. This waste is one of the most important elements targeted for reduction and elimination in lean manufacturing.\n\nReducing the batch size in discrete manufacturing is therefore a desirable goal: it improves the speed of response to the customer, whilst improving the ratio of value-added to non value-added work. However, it should be balanced against the finite capacity of resources at the value-adding processes. Capacity is consumed by changeover whenever a process is required to perform work on a different part or product model than the preceding one. Time consumed in changeover is also considered waste, and it reduces the amount of resource capacity that is available to perform value-adding work. Reducing batch sizes can also increase handling time, risk and complexity in planning and controlling production.\n\nThe paradigm aim is to achieve single-piece flow where a single discrete unit of product flows from process to process. In effect, the batch quantity is one. If there is no change in part or product model, then this objective needs to be balanced against the additional handling time, and the work-centres that perform the process will typically have to be arranged in close proximity to one another in a flow-line. This is often a characteristic of Repetitive-flow manufacturing and most manual assembly work is performed this way in the modern factory.\n\nIf there is a change in part or product model, then the process engineer should also consider to balance the changeover time with run-time. If the changeover time is long, as it might be on a machine, batch size reduction is typically preceded with setup reduction techniques such as Single-Minute Exchange of Die.\n\nOne methodology for Repetitive-flow manufacturing is Demand Flow Technology which combines the principles of Repetitive-flow and demand-driven manufacturing. The production planning and control is linked to a pull signal that is triggered from a customer order or consumption of finished goods stock. A pull signal can also link a process to the down-stream, and synchronize the flow to the demand of the customer.\n\n"}
{"id": "39287140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39287140", "title": "Daniel Guggenheim Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics", "text": "Daniel Guggenheim Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics\n\nThe Daniel Guggenheim Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics was established by Daniel Guggenheim and his son, Harry Guggenheim on June 16, 1926. Between 1926 and 1930 the fund disbursed $3 million, making grants that established schools or research centers at New York University, Stanford University, the University of Michigan, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Washington, the Georgia Institute of Technology, Harvard University, Syracuse University, Northwestern University, the University of Akron, and the California Institute of Technology. From mid July to late October, 1927, the fund also sponsored a 22,350-mile flying tour of the US by Charles Lindbergh and the \"Spirit of St. Louis\" after his solo non-stop flight from New York to Paris on May 20–21, 1927. The Guggenheim Tour included visits to 82 cities in all 48 states during which Lindbergh delivered 147 speeches promoting aviation.\n"}
{"id": "25903997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25903997", "title": "Dorothy Stokes Bostwick", "text": "Dorothy Stokes Bostwick\n\nDorothy Stokes Bostwick Smith Campbell (March 26, 1899 – February 16, 2001) was an American heiress and an artist and author who became one of the first women in the United States to hold a helicopter pilot's license.\n\nShe was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Lillian Stokes and her husband, Albert Carlton Bostwick. Her grandfather was Jabez A. Bostwick, a railroad owner and wealthy co-founder of the Standard Oil Company.\n\nA painter and sculptor, Dorothy Bostwick was first married at Christ Church in Gilbertsville, New York on March 7, 1922 to W. T. Sampson Smith. Smith's grandfather was the late Rear Admiral William T. Sampson. \n\nShe was a skilled sailor and also an aviation buff in particular with the autogyro, a precursor to the modern helicopter. Her second husband (m. 1950) Joseph Campbell was vice-president and treasurer of Columbia University. In 1954 he was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to Comptroller General of the United States.\n\nDorothy Bostwick wrote and illustrated \"\"Passing Thoughts\",\" a collection of her own poetry and drawings.\n\n"}
{"id": "25432618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25432618", "title": "Equality impact assessment", "text": "Equality impact assessment\n\nAn equality impact assessment (EqIA) is a process designed to ensure that a policy, project or scheme does not discriminate against any disadvantaged or vulnerable people.\n\nThe EqIA process aims to prevent discrimination against people who are categorised as being disadvantaged or vulnerable within society. These categories are called equality target groups (ETGs) and are currently designated by the Greater London Authority as: \n\nPrevious EqIAs have included other categories of people such as people on low incomes and gypsies and Irish Travellers.\n\nWithin the UK, EqIAs are still popular as a means of ensuring that the public-sector equality duty is met. However, on 19 November 2012, prime minister David Cameron announced that EqIAs would no longer be undertaken for government decisions.\n\n\nBainard, J., Jones, A., Bateman, I., Lovett, A. & Fallon, P. (2001) Modelling\nenvironmental equity: access to air quality in Birmingham, England Environment and\nPlanning A 2002, volume 34, pages 695 – 716\n\nBurningham, K. & Thrush, D. (2001) Local environmental concerns in disadvantaged\nneighbourhoods \n\nCapacity Global (2004) BME Communities Tackling Environmental and Social\nInequalities \n\nDavies, A. and Binsted, A. (2007) Environmental Equity and Equality Impact Assessment in the United Kingdom (07-1568) - TRB Annual Meeting Compendium of Papers CD-ROM, TRB 86th Annual Meeting, Washington D.C., January 2007 \n\nFriends of the Earth (2000) Pollution injustice \n\nFriends of the Earth (2001) Pollution and Poverty – Breaking the Link\nGay, R., Jeffery, B., and Saunders, P. (2005) Burden of disease: environmental\ninequalities \nGreater London Authority (2003) Equality Impact Assessments - How to do them \n\nTransport for London (2004) Equality Impact Assessments - How to do them \nWalker, G. Fairburn, J. Smith, G. and Mitchell, G. (2003) Environmental Quality and\nSocial Deprivation \n\n"}
{"id": "54877406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54877406", "title": "Fadi Ghandour", "text": "Fadi Ghandour\n\nFadi Ghandour (born 1959) is the Executive Chairman of Wamda Group, an organization consisting of a Venture Capital fund that invests in technology-enabled companies in the Middle East and North Africa region, Turkey and East Africa.\n\nThe son of Royal Jordanian airlines founder Ali Ghandour, Fadi Ghandour was born in Beirut in 1959. He came to Jordan at the age of four, when his father was a political refugee. He graduated from George Washington University in Washington, D.C. in 1981.\n\nIn 1982, he founded Aramex, which partners regionally Airborne Express, Burlington Northern, FedEx and Purolator International to deliver packages to hot spots in the Arab region. Aramex is a global logistics and transportation provider listed on the Dubai Financial Market (DFM). He stepped down as CEO in 2012.\nHe is also the Founder and Chairman of Ruwwad for Development, an initiative that helps disadvantaged communities across in Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine and Egypt overcome marginalization through activism, civic engagement, education and financial inclusion.\n"}
{"id": "14394227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14394227", "title": "Generalized Ozaki cost function", "text": "Generalized Ozaki cost function\n\nIn economics the generalized-Ozaki cost is a general description of cost described by Shuichi Nakamura.\n\nFor output \"y\", at date \"t\" and a vector of \"m\" input prices \"p\", the generalized-Ozaki cost, \"c\", is\n\nIn econometrics it is often desirable to have a model of the cost of production of a given output with given inputs—or in common terms, what it will cost to produce some number of goods at prevailing prices, or given prevailing prices and a budget, how much can be made. Generally there are two parts to a cost function, the fixed and variable costs involved in production.\n\nThe marginal cost is the change in the cost of production for a single unit. Most cost functions then take the price of the inputs and adjust for different factors of production, typically, technology, economies of scale, and elasticities of inputs.\n\nTraditional cost functions include Cobb–Douglas and the constant elasticity of substitution models. These are still used because for a wide variety of activities, effects such as varying ability to substitute materials does not change. For example, for people running a bake sale, the ability to substitute one kind of chocolate chip for another will not vary over the number of cookies they can bake. However, as economies of scale and changes in substitution become important models that handle these effects become more useful, such as the transcendental log cost function.\n\nThe traditional forms are economically homothetic. This means they can be expressed as a function, and that function can be broken into an outer part and an inner part. The inner part will appear once as a term in the outer part, and the inner part will be monotonically increasing, or to say it another way, it never goes down. However, empirically in the areas of trade and production, homoethetic and monolithic functional models do not accurately predict results. One example is in the gravity equation for trade, or how much will two countries trade with each other based on GDP and distance. This led researchers to explore non-homothetic models of production, to fit with a cross section analysis of producer behavior, for example, when producers would begin to minimize costs by switching inputs, or investing in increased production.\n"}
{"id": "35895343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35895343", "title": "George Burgess (entrepreneur)", "text": "George Burgess (entrepreneur)\n\nGeorge Burgess is a well known young serial entrepreneur. He is the founder and CEO of Gojimo, a UK-based provider of study assistance applications for students.\n\nHe was titled one of Britain's six most exciting young entrepreneurs by Forbes, and \"One to watch on London's Tech Start Up Scene\" by the Evening Standard.\n\nBurgess grew up in London, England. He was educated at Colet Court, St Paul's School and then began a degree at Stanford University before dropping out to work on his business full-time. He currently lives in London.\n\nAt 15 years old, Burgess ran his own eBay shop, becoming a powerseller and turning over £36,000 a year. He also ran a videography company with a friend while at school, which served five schools. By the age of 17, he had founded EducationApps, a startup publisher that produces educational content for mobile phones, and counts the BBC, Pearson, and Oxford University Press as partners. Media accounts have made light of his being caught emailing a freelance app developer by his Geography teacher Will Williams, who resultantly became his first business adviser. Having established EducationApps Ltd. the EducationApps range grew to over a hundred subject-specific apps.\n\nIn March 2013, Burgess dropped out of his undergraduate degree at Stanford University to pursue his revision apps business full-time. Later that year, he raised over $1 million in seed capital from Index Ventures and JamJar Investments (the founders of Innocent Drinks) and launched the app at BETT 2014. Gojimo is now the UK's most successful exam preparation app and is expanding around the world. The content spans mainly across the secondary school public exams syllabus in the UK and United States such as GCSE A Level and the SAT. As of January 2015 the app has been installed over 500,000 times.\n\nBurgess has grown the company from a team of two to fourteen. The app currently offers content for various subjects for UK exams: 11+ Common Entrance, 13+ Common Entrance, GCSE and A-Level; US Exams: SAT, ACT and AP; and international undergraduate and IGCSE qualifications.\n\nThe subjects offered vary between qualifications but include Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Geography, History, Maths, Law, Politics, Religious Studies, English, Latin, Spanish, German, Psychology and Design Technology.\n\nIn addition to content which is generated by in-house writers and fact-checked by teachers, external publishers such as McGraw-Hill Education and Oxford University Press have created premium content for the app. There are currently 60,000 questions available across the different qualifications.\n\nGojimo was a finalist of the Best App Category of BETT 2015.\n\nGeorge has given numerous talks on the subjects of young entrepreneurship, mobile learning and achievement. He spoke at BETT 2015, on the subject \"What can businesses do to ensure they provide edtech products that improve learner outcomes?\". He gave a keynote speech at Create 2014, and spoke at Skills 2014. He has also spoken to numerous university entrepreneurs societies.\n\nIn 2014 he was selected to participate in the UK's Great Tech Expedition to the USA, a tour initiated by London Mayor Boris Johnson and UKTI.\n\nGeorge is also occasionally invited to consult with policy makers, such as at a meeting at 10 Downing Street in January 2015 to discuss how the British Government can assist the growth of education technology. In November 2014 he spoke at the Institute of Directors on a panel shared with Shadow Business Secretary Chuka Umunna on the subject of young entrepreneurship.\n"}
{"id": "43631624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43631624", "title": "Heinz Vieluf", "text": "Heinz Vieluf\n\nHeinz Siegfried Vieluf Cabrera (born 30 March 1959) is a businessman and politician from the Dominican Republic. He is Senator for the province of Monte Cristi, elected in 2006, and re-elected in 2010 and 2016.\n\nVieluf founded the \"Fundación Heinz Vieluf Cabrera\" foundation.\n"}
{"id": "4686168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4686168", "title": "Hilton Cheong-Leen", "text": "Hilton Cheong-Leen\n\nHilton Cheong-Leen, CBE, JP (; born 6 August 1922) is a Hong Kong politician and businessman. He was an elected member of the Urban Council of Hong Kong for 34 years from 1957 to 1991. He was also the first Chinese chairman of the council from 1981 to 1986. He had been a long-time chairman of the Hong Kong Civic Association, one of the two quasi-opposition political groups in the post-war Urban Council. From 1973 to 1979, he was appointed unofficial member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong. From 1985 to 1988, he was again became among the first elected member of the Legislative Council through Urban Council constituency in the first Legislative Council election in 1985.\n\nCheong-Leen was born in Georgetown, British Guyana on 6 August 1922 to a third-generation Chinese mother Elvira Cheong-Leen and father Edward Cheong-Leen who came through Hong Kong from China to join an uncle in Guyana. He was educated at the Central High School in Georgetown. He moved to Hong Kong when he was around nine and went to La Salle College in Hong Kong. He had worked in a law firm, an import and export company and as a banker after school.\n\nAfter the fall of Hong Kong, he moved to unoccupied territory in China and lived in Kunming with his family and returned to Hong Kong after the war. He was a journalist for a period of time, having been the Hong Kong correspondent of Fox News and BBC. He was offered a job with the \"South China Morning Post\" but he followed his family's wish to go into commerce and set up his own import and export firm H. Cheong-Leen & Co. in 1945, importing gifts, premiums and watches.\n\nAs a publisher, he also joined the Junior Chamber in 1953 and represented the chamber in the international conference of the Junior Chamber in San Francisco. He was for many years chairman of the Hong Kong Watch Importers Association. He continues to be the honorary life president of the Hong Kong Watch Manufacturers Association.\n\nAt the time the Urban Council elections, the only direct elections in the colony at the time, were dominated by Brook Bernacchi's Reform Club of Hong Kong, Cheong-Leen founded the Hong Kong Civic Association in 1954 with Roger Lobo and A. de O. Sales, as well as Rev. Brigant Cassian and Dr. Woo Pak-foo. Cheong-Leen was the founding secretary-general of the association and was in the first meeting at a bar on the mezzanine floor of Jimmy's Kitchen in Theatre Lane, Central.\n\nAs the representative of the association, he visited London and New York and met with the Colonial Office officials and Members of Parliament of different parties including William John Peel, son of Hong Kong Governor Sir William Peel, and United Nations officials Ralph Bunche and Benjamin Victor Cohen over constitutional reform and other issues respectively in the 1950s.\n\nHe was also vice-chairman of the United Nations Association of Hong Kong led by Ma Man-fai, whom he befriended during their lives in Kunming. He represented the association in the international conference of the United Nations Association in Bangkok in 1955. As a secretary of the International Association of the Chinese Refugees, he also visited United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva and New York on the refuge issues in Hong Kong.\n\nCheong-Leen first contested on the Civic Association ticket in 1956 Urban Council election but was not elected. He ran again in the election in the following year and took the last of the four seats. He remained in the Urban Council for 34 years until he retired in 1991. He took over as the Civic Association chairman in 1968 and had held the position for many years until 2004. The Civic Association at the time positioned itself as more pro-middle-class and moderate as compared to the Reform Club.\n\nCheong-Leen contested the chairmanship of the Urban Council in 1973 when the post was elected by the council for the first time. He lost to A. de O. Sales but was elected vice-chairman. He went on becoming the first Chinese chairman of the council in 1981 after defeating Denny Huang when A. de. O. Sales stepped down. He held the position until 1986.\n\nHe had also many other public positions including the chairman of the Hong Kong Girl Guides Island Regional Association, deputy chairman of the council of the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts, member of the Fight Crime Committee, board of governors of the Hong Kong Philharmonic Society and the Hong Kong Academy of Ballet. He was also member of the Wan Chai District Board as an ex officio member. For his public services, he was awarded Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1984.\n\nAfter 34 years of service, Cheong-Leen stepped down as the second longest-serving elected officeholder in Hong Kong history, behind Brook Bernacchi's 41 years, after he decided not to seek for re-election of the Urban Council in 1991.\n\nHe was first appointed as an unofficial member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong on 1 May 1973 by Governor Sir Murray MacLehose with Guy Sayer to fill the vacancies left by retired H. J. C. Browne and deceased Mary Wong Wing-cheung. In his first term in the council, he made a major speech advocating nine years of free compulsory education and followed up all the way to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, which made it eventually realised. He retired from the Legislative Council on 31 August 1979 along with James Wu Man-hon after six years of service and were succeeded by Hu Fa-kuang and Wong Po-yan.\n\nIn the 1980s, the colonial government carried out the constitutional reform as the Sino-British Joint Declaration was finalised. The first indirect election was introduced in 1985 when 24 seats of the Legislative Council were elected by electoral colleges and functional constituencies. Cheong-Leen defeated Elsie Tu in the Urban Council electoral college which composed of all members of the Urban Council and became member of the Legislative Council for the second time. He held the position until 1988.\n\nHilton Cheong-Leen's first wife, Pauline Chow, was a soprano singer known as \"the nightingale of China\". Pauline was born in Peking and was educated at the Bridgman Academy and National Peking University. The couple met in Guilin and Hilton was even fancied becoming a base baritone because of her. They married in 1945 until her death in 1979. The couple had two sons and two daughters, Reginald (born in 1951), Susan (born in 1953), Franklin (born in 1958) and Flora (born in 1959). Their fourth child, Flora Cheong-Leen is a famous ballerina and designer who was married to actor Russell Wong.\n\nHe married his second wife, Nancy Gan Wan Geok, in 1988 but later divorced. Gan was a classical pianist and porcelain painter educated at Trinity College London and had held exhibitions of her porcelain paintings in Hong Kong from 1988 to 1992. Gan was found dead in the swimming pool of her bungalow in Singapore on 19 March 2014. Dewi Suko Wati, her Indonesian helper from Central Java, was charged with murder.\n"}
{"id": "28041300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28041300", "title": "Howard Warren Buffett", "text": "Howard Warren Buffett\n\nHoward Warren Buffett (born October 14, 1983) is an American professor in public policy and international affairs, political advisor, and philanthropist. He serves as an adjunct faculty member at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and was previously the executive director of the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, a private philanthropic foundation that funds initiatives aimed at improving the standard of living and quality of life for the world’s most impoverished and marginalized populations. He previously led agriculture-based economic stabilization and redevelopment programs in Iraq and Afghanistan while at the United States Department of Defense, and as a policy advisor in the Executive Office of the President of the United States under President Barack Obama.\n\nPrior to joining the White House, Buffett served as a special assistant at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, as a member of the Office of the President-Elect, and as director of National Surrogate Radio for Obama for America.\n\nBuffett was born in Omaha, Nebraska, to farmer and philanthropist Howard Graham Buffett and Devon Armour Goss (by first husband Morse). He has four half sisters: Erin Christian Morse, Heather Kirsten Morse, Chelsea Armour Morse, Megan Moreton Morse. He is a grandson and a only biological grandchild of famed American investor and philanthropist Warren Edward Buffett. His maternal grandfather was Norman Leffingwell Goss, a celebrity Pasadena businessman, a restaurateur, a vineyard and winery owner and a classical musician. And he is a great-great-grandson of Michael Cochrane Armour, president of a Chicago Iron and Steel Corporation. Howard Warren Buffett is also a great-great-grandson of Dr. J. Schuyler Long.\n\nRaised in Omaha, he attended Ponca Elementary School before moving to Decatur, Illinois, where he attended Mount Zion High School and was elected president of the local chapter of the National FFA Organization.\nHe completed his Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Communication Studies in 2006 at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, where he also served as the student body vice president. He went on to receive a Master of Public Administration in Advanced Management and Finance at the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, Buffett was appointed to the United States Department of Agriculture, where he served as a special assistant in the Office of the Secretary. There, he managed the national expansion strategy for the Department’s $480 million Cooperative Extension Service program. Additionally, he was charged with identifying strategic external partnerships aimed at advancing the core mission areas of research, education, and economics. He also served on the five-year Strategic Planning Initiative, and represented the department in the White House Innovation and Information Policy Working Group.\n\nUpon completion of his service at the Department of Agriculture, Buffett served as a policy advisor in the Executive Office of the President of the United States at the White House, where he was responsible for the Cross-Sector Partnerships portfolio. In this role, he directed strategy development for cross-sector partnerships and innovation strategies aimed at enhancing collaboration between the White House, federal departments, agencies, corporations, nonprofits and foundations.\n\nAfter leaving the White House, Buffett became the director of agriculture development at the Task Force for Business Stability Operations under the U.S. Department of Defense, where he was tasked with designing and implementing a strategy for agricultural development in Afghanistan and Iraq under the leadership of Paul Brinkley.\n\nIn May 2010, Buffett spearheaded a White House Energy Innovation Conference focused on promoting partnerships. Represented at the event were four federal departments, three federal agencies, entrepreneurs, state government officials, academia, private sector leaders, nonprofits and innovators.\n\nAt the conference, the United States Department of Energy and the Small Business Administration jointly announced that both the Small Business Investment Company program and the Small Business Technology Transfer program would begin using their existing funding networks to promote small green energy firms through a new $60 million Business Clean Energy Innovation Fund. The event also served as the launch vehicle for the Regional Energy Innovation Conferences.\n\nThe first Regional Energy Innovation Conference was hosted in Omaha, Nebraska on June 17, 2010. The event focused on connecting entrepreneurs and small enterprise with representatives from organizations across sectors and was itself a partnership between the City of Omaha, The Gallup Organization, the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, and the U.S. Department of Energy. Over one hundred local, regional, and national organizations were represented at Gallup University’s Omaha Campus to discuss issues ranging from regional gap funding and human capital needs to collaboration and the early adoption of energy innovation.\n\nAt the 2011 Social Good Summit in New York, Buffett introduced an approach premised on addressing social problems by systematically lining up nonprofits to each need.\n\nOn May 28, 2018, Buffett announced the release of his book titled \"Social Value Investing: A Management Framework for Effective Partnerships.\" Published by Columbia University Press, the book details specific case studies and examples on topics including clean energy, water scarcity and sustainable agriculture.\n\nIn 2010, Buffett joined the advisory board for Toyota Motor North America. He chairs the advisory board for the Harvard University International Negotiation Program.\n\nHe previously served on the Board of Visitors for the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, and on the boards of New York Needs You and the Clark and Hinman Foundation. Additionally, he has served as an advisor to both the United Nations Office for Partnerships and the FEED Foundation.\n\nHe served as a judge for the Collaboration Prize, the American Express 2009 NGen Fellows Program, and the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship’s business plan competitions.\n\nHe is an active member of the Nebraska Society and a lifetime alumni member of the Future Farmers of America (FFA).\n\nBuffett currently serves as the executive director of the Howard G. Buffett Foundation, a private family foundation focused on improving the standard of living and quality of life for the world’s most impoverished and marginalized populations. He has engaged in the humanitarian and agriculture development efforts of the Foundation worldwide.\n\nBuffett also sits on the board of Doris Buffett's Learning By Giving Foundation. He has referred to Learning by Giving as the first step in the implementation of the Social Value Investment model, \"By simply empowering students to become problem solvers in their own communities, we maximize the impact of our efforts, encourage innovation, and inspire life-long engagements with philanthropy.\"\n\nIn the fall of 2013, Buffett served as a co-professor teaching an Innovations of Public Management class at his alma mater at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. Buffett taught the course with program head William Eimicke, and is currently an adjunct associate professor and research scholar at the school, teaching philanthropy, social value investing, and management innovation.\n\nHe is married to Lili Thomas Buffett. They split their time between Omaha, Nebraska, and Decatur, Illinois.\n\nBuffett operates a 400-acre no-till farm near Tekamah, Nebraska.\n\nBuffett is a published photographer, his work has appeared in \"National Geographic\", World Wide Fund for Nature, and \"Encyclopedia of Earth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34029987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34029987", "title": "Internet Society of China", "text": "Internet Society of China\n\nThe Internet Society of China (ISC) is a Chinese non-governmental organization made up of 140 members of the Chinese Internet industry including private companies, schools and research institutes. It is supported by Chinese government authorities such as the Ministry of Information Industry, the Ministry of Education and the State Council Information Office. It describes itself as “the country’s first non-governmental regulator for the internet industry.”\n\nISC has been described as a \"quasi-governmental\" organization.\n\nThe ISC issues what the Chinese government calls “self-disciplinary regulations,” including the Public Pledge on Self-Discipline for the Chinese Internet Industry, which has been signed by thousands of organizations operating websites in China, including Baidu, Soseen, Yahoo, Microsoft and Google. In signing the agreement, companies pledge to identify and prevent the transmission of any information that Chinese authorities deem objectionable, including information that “breaks laws or spreads superstition or obscenity,” or that “may jeopardize state security and disrupt social stability.” \nThe ISC is unrelated to the international non-profit Internet Society.\n"}
{"id": "55341722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55341722", "title": "Isa Bey Hajinski", "text": "Isa Bey Hajinski\n\nIsa Bey Hajinski was an Azerbaijani wealthy landowner, industrial magnate, philanthropist, and owner of kerosene fabric in Black City district of Baku.\n\nIsa Bey Hajinski was born in Baku in 1861. He undertook study at home and spoke several languages. Isa Bey was the hereditary owner of large land holdings from his father. Which he discovered vast deposits oil in those lands. By that, he developed rapid entrepreneurial activities in the oil industry.\n\nIsa Bey Hajinski, the honorable benefactor of the Alexander High School, increased his contribution from 800 to 1000 roubles per year and also, in 1913 he spent 1000 roubles for buying a cinematograph for the school. This was a rare phenomenon for schools of that time. He was also the first automobile owner in Baku. In November of the same year, Hajinski bought a summer house in Mineralnye Vody. Thus, students with weak health could spend their holidays and get treatment. Isa Bey Hajinski was also an honorable protector of Baku Gymnasium for Men. The education was paid at Gymnasium, but children of a poor family had a free education there. For the charitable activities of Isa Bey Hajinski, he was awarded two orders of Saint Stanislaus (of the third and fourth degree).\n\nAfter the death of Isa Bey Hajinski in January 1919 for just over a year, his sons emigrated to France. The fate of Sadikh bey and Ahmad bey is unknown, except Ali Bey. The youngest son returned to Baku after World War II and then arrested. 15-year-old Zibeyda khanim and her mother, Kheyransa khanim lived in poverty after the death of Isa Bey.\n"}
{"id": "55517371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55517371", "title": "John Jay Mortimer", "text": "John Jay Mortimer\n\nJohn Jay Mortimer (1935 – 2013) was an American financier and member of the prominent Mortimer family of New York.\n\nHe was one of six children born to Stanley Grafton Mortimer, Sr. (1890–1947) and Kathleen Hunt Tilford (1890–1970). His father was a stockbroker and U.S. amateur court tennis champion. His siblings included Stanley G. Mortimer, Jr. (1913–1999), who was married to Babe Paley (1915-1978) and then Kathleen H. Harriman (1917-2011), the daughter of W. Averell Harriman, Henry Tilford Mortimer (1916-1993), Richard Mortimer, Eve Mortimer (1918-2007), who married Clarence Pell, Jr. and later Lewis Cass Ledyard III (1911-1990). His youngest sister, Katharine Mortimer (1923–2003), was married three times, including to Francis Xavier Shields, who became the grandfather of actress Brooke Shields. \n\nHe was a member of the prominent Standard Oil family, Mortimer is the maternal grandson of its president Henry Morgan Tilford. His paternal grandfather was Richard Mortimer, a real estate investor and member of Ward McAllister's \"Four Hundred\", purported to be an index of New York's best families. Through his father and paternal grandmother, Eleanor Jay Chapman Mortimer, she was a descendant of the first chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, John Jay, as well as the first colonial Governor of New York, Robert Livingston\n\nMortimer grew up at Keewaydin in Tuxedo Park. The family home was designed by Stanford White and once belonged to Pierre Lorillard III. His family, along with the Lorillards, were the founding families of Tuxedo Park. His grandmother, the widow of Henry Morgan Tilford, was known as \"one of the reigning dowagers of Tuxedo Park\" for four decades. According to author Sally Bedell Smith, \"her annual debutante dinners before the Autumn Ball determined which young women were approved for New York society.\"\n\nHe was educated at St. Mark's School in Southborough, Massachusetts.\n\nMortimer was a financier in New York.\n\nMortimer was married to Senga Clark (née Mucci) Mortimer, an editor at \"House Beautiful\" magazine. Senga, the daughter of Col. Henry Mucci (1909–1997), was previously married and had a son, Dwight F. \"Peter\" Davis IV, from that marriage to Dwight Davis III, a grandson of Dwight F. Davis, the U.S. Secretary of War. Together, they were the parents of:\n\n\nMortimer died in 2013. His funeral was held in Tuxedo Park, and speakers included his son and daughter, and Lewis Lapham, the editor.\n\n"}
{"id": "19185041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19185041", "title": "List of frequent flyer programs", "text": "List of frequent flyer programs\n\nFrequent-flyer programs are customer loyalty programs used by many passenger airlines. This is a list of current airlines with frequent-flyer programs, and the names of those programs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44814826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44814826", "title": "List of largest chemical producers", "text": "List of largest chemical producers\n\n\"Chemical & Engineering News\" publishes an annual list of the world's largest chemical producers by sales, excluding formulated products such as pharmaceutical drugs and coatings. In 2017, sales of the top fifty companies amounted to , an increase of 14.3% compared to the top fifty producers of 2016. The American Chemistry Council estimated that global chemical sales in 2014 rose by 3.7% to .\n\nIn 2017, BASF was the world's largest chemical producer for the twelfth year in a row. In 2017, More than half of the companies on the list were headquartered in the United States (twelve), Japan (eight) or Germany (six); eighteen countries in total were represented.\n\nIn 2017, Forty-eight of the companies on the list disclosed chemical profits, which totaled , an increase of 10.6% from 2016. The average profit margin for chemical operations for these companies was 13.4%.\n\nSince \"Chemical & Engineering News\" began keeping records in 1989, BASF has been the world's largest chemical producer by annual sales more frequently than any other company. The other companies that have headed the list are Dow Chemical, Hoechst (which merged with Rhône-Poulenc in 1999 and is now a subsidiary of Sanofi), ICI (acquired by AkzoNobel in 2008) and Bayer.\n"}
{"id": "58970522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58970522", "title": "Luiza Helena Trajano", "text": "Luiza Helena Trajano\n\nLuiza Helena Trajano Inácio Rodrigues (born October 9, 1951) is a Brazilian businessperson and billionaire. She is the chairwoman of the retail chain Magazine Luiza and other companies integrated with her holding company.\n\nTrajano was born in Franca, in the state of São Paulo. She graduated in law from the Faculdade de Direito de Franca in 1972. \nHer uncle and aunt, Pelegrino José Donato and Luiza Trajano Donato had a retail store in Franca, named Magazine Luiza. She worked on the firm through several sectors, such as collection and sales, before becoming the company's director-superintendent, in 1991. Under her command, Magazine Luiza became a chain of more than 800 stores, spread into 16 Brazilian states.\n\nTrajano also leads Grupo Mulheres do Brasil (Women of Brazil Group), formed in 2012 by 50 Brazilian women entrepreneurs. Today, they are more than 4,000 and meet every month to discuss and propose actions related to education, entrepreneurship, social projects and gender equality in the workforce, supporting quotas for women. \n"}
{"id": "3681363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3681363", "title": "Lyon Gardiner Tyler", "text": "Lyon Gardiner Tyler\n\nLyon Gardiner Tyler Sr. (August 24, 1853 – February 12, 1935) was an American educator, genealogist, and historian. He was the son of John Tyler, 10th President of the United States. He was 17th president of the College of William and Mary, an advocate of historical research and preservation, and a prominent critic of US President Abraham Lincoln. Two of his own children are still alive, making President Tyler by far the oldest President to have living grandchildren.\n\nTyler was the fourth son of President John Tyler and First Lady Julia Gardiner Tyler, born at Sherwood Forest Plantation. When he was eight, his father died, and this coupled with the beginning of the American Civil War prompted the family to move north to Staten Island, where his mother's family was from. He returned to Virginia in 1869 to earn both a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in law from the University of Virginia, graduating in 1875. While at the University he was a member of Kappa Sigma and Jefferson Literary Society, and was recognized for his contributions to the school's literary magazine.\n\nUpon graduation, Tyler spent a year teaching philosophy and literature at the College of William and Mary, but as the school was struggling financially it ceased being able to pay his salary, whereupon he resigned and moved to Memphis, Tennessee, where he spent several years as principal of a private school. In 1882 he returned to Virginia to practice law in Richmond. With the support of his mother, who lived there at the time, he began work on \"The Letters and Times of the Tylers\", a three-volume study of the careers of his father and paternal grandfather, John Tyler Sr.. This would be published between 1884 and 1896.\n\nDuring his life in Richmond, Tyler became a prominent advocate for public education reform. He helped to revive the Virginia Mechanics Institute, on whose board he served and at which institution he taught. In 1887 he was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates, which gave him the opportunity to lobby for money for the College of William and Mary; he procured $10,000 to restore the school, which had lain dormant for seven years due to lack of funding and the ravages of war. This advocacy allowed the College to reopen in 1888; Tyler was named its president.\n\nFrom 1888 to 1919, Tyler served as the 17th president of the College of William and Mary (W&M); he is widely credited for restoring the college's financial condition following the deterioration which took place in the wake of the American Civil War. During his tenure he held the chairmanship of the history department, and with six other professors formed the body known as the \"Seven Wise Men\". He also was responsible for the creation of the \"William and Mary Quarterly\" journal. An advocate of women's suffrage, he oversaw the College when it became the first in the Commonwealth of Virginia to admit women, in 1918.\n\nIt was while at the College that Tyler became interested in the history of Virginia; he would eventually conduct research throughout the state, and campaigned for the preservation of local records. In 1896 he managed to persuade the Virginia General Assembly to appropriate $5,000 for the copying of 17th-century court records, an action which set a precedent for the expenditure of public monies to preserve state records. Such preservation became his mission in later years, and he traveled extensively throughout the Commonwealth to find material. In 1915 he was elected to the State Library Board, serving until his death; he was a member of the Virginia Historical Society for fifty-two years, spending forty-seven of those on its executive committee and thirty-two as a vice president. He was a prolific author, and his work spurred recognition of the significance of both Jamestown and Williamsburg to American history. He also spent much of his career attempting to rehabilitate his father's political reputation.\n\nTyler resigned his presidency of William and Mary in June 1919; during his tenure the College had increased its enrollment to over 200 pupils. The number of faculty had grown to fourteen, and twelve buildings were either renovated or constructed. The school also became a public institution, an effort which he spearheaded himself. He retired to his farm, Lion's Den, in Charles City County. He remained active in his profession, as a writer, speaker, and researcher, until dying of pneumonia on February 12, 1935 in Richmond, where he is buried in Hollywood Cemetery.\n\nTyler received a deal of notoriety during his career for his criticism of Abraham Lincoln, which he expressed on numerous occasions. The first of these came in 1917 when in response to an editorial in the \"New York Times\" suggesting that Southern slaveholders were akin to the German aristocrats then causing trouble in Europe, Tyler posited that it was Lincoln who more closely resembled the Prussian nobility with his flouting of the Constitution during the Civil War. Eleven years later the issue arose again when the Virginia House of Delegates chose to adjourn in honor of Lincoln's birthday; Tyler contended that Lincoln was no hero and did not merit the honor. When \"Time\" fired back that Tyler's father, compared to the later president, was a dwarf both in stature and in accomplishments, Tyler retorted with a pamphlet claiming that it was Lincoln who was the dwarf. He would go on in retirement to continue the crusade against Lincoln, publishing many articles in his own journal, \"Tyler's Quarterly and Genealogical Magazine\", that were highly critical of the sixteenth president.\n\nTyler was married twice. His first wife was Anne Baker Tucker of Albemarle County, with whom he had three children: John Tyler; Elizabeth Gilmer Tyler; and Julia Gardiner Tyler Wilson, one of the founders of Kappa Delta.\n\nFollowing Anne's death in 1921, he married the former Sue Ruffin, 35 years his junior, with whom he had a further three children: Lyon Gardiner Tyler, Jr. (born 1924); Harrison Ruffin Tyler (born 1928); and Henry Tyler, who died in infancy. , both surviving sons from Sue are still alive, making their grandfather the earliest former President of the United States with living grandchildren. In late August 2018, Lyon, Jr. participated in a reunion of presidential descendants hosted by the White House Historical Association, and signed, along with other descendants, a drawer from a copy of the Resolute Desk.\n\nTyler's major works include:\n\nLyon, Sr.'s personal papers and the papers from his time as President of the College of William and Mary can be found at the Special Collections Research Center. Additionally, numerous memorials to Tyler exist on the William and Mary campus. Among these is the Tyler Family Garden, dedicated to Tyler as well as his father and paternal grandfather, both of whom were alumni of the College; located next to James Blair Hall, which houses the university's history department, the garden contains busts of the three men, and was dedicated on April 30, 2004. It was funded as part of a $5 million gift from Lyon's son, Harrison Ruffin Tyler, and his wife. In addition, the history department is now known as the Lyon Gardiner Tyler Department of History.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23523337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23523337", "title": "Main Street", "text": "Main Street\n\nMain Street is a generic phrase used to denote a primary retail street of a village, town or small city in many parts of the world. It is usually a focal point for shops and retailers in the central business district, and is most often used in reference to retailing and socializing.\n\nThe term is commonly used in Ireland, Scotland, the United States, Canada, and less often in Australia and New Zealand. In most of the United Kingdom the common description is High Street though \"Fore Street\" or \"Front Street\" is commonplace in some regions. In Jamaica the term is Front Street.\n\nIn many places, the street name for such a street is actually \"Main Street\", though even where it isn't the term \"Main street\" is still used to describe the main thoroughfare of the central business district. The \"Main Street of America\" branding was used to promote U.S. Route 66 in its heyday.\n\nIn the general sense, the term \"Main Street\" refers to a place of traditional values. Social realists from 1870 to 1930 used the name as a symbol of stifling conformity. Sherwood Anderson, for example, wrote \"Winesburg, Ohio: A Group of Tales of Ohio Small Town Life\" in 1919. The best-selling 1920 novel \"Main Street\" was a critique of small town life, by the American writer Sinclair Lewis. The locale was \"Gopher Prairie,\" presented as an 'ideal type' of the Midwestern town, and the heroine, Carol Kennicott, was a more urbane, 'ideal-typical' Progressive.\n\nIn North American media of later decades, \"Main Street\" represents the interests of everyday people and small business owners, in contrast with \"Wall Street\" (in the United States) or \"Bay Street\" (in Canada), symbolizing the interests of large national corporations. Thus, in the 1949 movie adaptation of \"On The Town\", the song \"When You Walk Down Main Street With Me\" refers to small-town values and social life. Main Street Republicans, for example, see themselves as supporting those values as against urbane or \"Wall Street\" tendencies.\n\n\"Main Street\" is part of the iconography of American life. For example, the Army and Air Force Exchange Service, the outfit that operates the PX and BX stores on military bases, chose the name \"Main Street USA\" for its food courts.\n\n\"Main Street\" was a popular term during the economic crises in 2008 and 2009: the proposed bailout of U.S. financial system, the 2008 US presidential campaign, and debates. One widely reviewed book was \"Bailout: An Inside Account of How Washington Abandoned Main Street While Rescuing Wall Street\" (2012) by Neil Barofsky.\n\nIn small towns across the United States, Main Street is not only the major road running through town but the site of all street life, a place where townspeople hang out and watch the annual parades go by. A slang term popularized in the early 20th century, \"main drag\", is also used to refer to a town's main street.\n\nTwo Walt Disney Company theme parks, Disneyland in Anaheim, California, and the Magic Kingdom in the Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, Florida, both have \"Main Street, U.S.A.\" sections immediately at their front. These areas, which are designed to look like the main street of a small town, house gift shops, restaurants and various services, along with park offices on the second floors. While the architecture of these \"streets\" appears to be turn-of-the-20th-century, in fact these are decorative false-fronts on industrial-style buildings. Main Street, U.S.A. is also present at Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland. At Tokyo Disneyland the area is named \"World Bazaar,\" but has the same look as Main Street, albeit housed under a decorative glass roof for protection from Japan's unpredictable weather.\n\nDisney's design copied visual elements of small-town America seen in films by Frank Capra and others, in a deliberate attempt to capture the iconic symbolism of small-town America. Disney wanted to embed the values and memories associated with life in small towns into an entertainment experience for tourists.\n\nMain Street Inc. is the name of a community revitalization program begun by the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the late 1970s. The core of the Main Street philosophy is the preservation of the historic built environment by engaging in historic preservation. Main Street focuses on a holistic approach to revitalization based on the 4-point approach of design, promotion, economic restructuring, and organization. Originally targeted at small, traditional downtowns, the program has expanded to include towns of various sizes, including neighborhood districts in several large urban centers.\n\nIn many communities, a merchants' association or business improvement district serves a promotional role on behalf of the merchants of a downtown Main Street. Individual city governments also may engage in revitalisation or historic preservation efforts to support a downtown core, either to make a community appear more attractive for tourism or to stem a flow of commerce out of the city into suburbs with shopping malls and cookie-cutter big box stores.\n\nIn the United States federal funds are allocated specifically for restoration of historic properties on the former U.S. Route 66, the main street of many roadside towns; this funding is administered by the US National Park Service.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17828720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17828720", "title": "Men's Dress Furnishings Association", "text": "Men's Dress Furnishings Association\n\nThe Men's Dress Furnishings Association was a trade association based in New York, New York which promoted men's fashion accessories with a primary focus on dress shirts and neckties. The group also educated consumers at high schools and colleges.\n\nFounded in 1947 as the Men's Tie Foundation, they changed their name to the Neckwear Association of America in 1978. In 2003, due to a decline in its membership as a result of manufacturers closing, consolidating, or losing business to overseas competition, the Association added dress shirt manufacturers to boost their membership and became the Men's Dress Furnishings Association.\n\nThe group announced in 2008 that it was shutting down after 60 years. Membership in the group had declined from a high of 120 manufacturers in the 1980s to 25 in 2008. Increased competition from manufacturers outside the United States as well as the declining number of men wearing ties was cited.\n"}
{"id": "10521025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10521025", "title": "MidAmerica Industrial Park", "text": "MidAmerica Industrial Park\n\nMidAmerica Industrial Park is Oklahoma's largest industrial park. The park is located in Pryor Creek, Oklahoma. Over 70 firms are located within the industrial park including operations of seven Fortune 500 companies. The park was founded in 1960, when the Federal government sold most of the former Oklahoma Ordnance Works to a public trust, the Oklahoma Ordnance Works Authority. It covers 9,000 acres (36 km²).\n\nUrgent Care of Green Country Urgent Care of Green Country (UCGC)\nopened their Pryor / MidAmerica clinic at MidAmerica Industrial Park on January 19, 2009. Independently owned, UCGC was founded in 2002 by Dr. Stephen R. Kovacs, D.O., F.A.B.H.P. and Dr. S.Addison Beeson, D.O., F.A.B.E.P. The facility includes a reception area, doctor's office, eight exam / treatment rooms, EMR (Electronic Medical Records), in-house x-ray, orthopedics and lab services. The clinic will treat employees from MidAmerica industries and area businesses that require occupational health services such as: in-depth diagnostic and treatment for most occupational injuries; drug testing; employee physicals; and, sports physicals. Additionally, UCGC offers “walk-in treatment” with no appointment necessary for the general public from throughout Mayes County. \n\nTulsa Life Flight, a helicopter ambulance service formerly based solely at Saint Francis Hospital in Tulsa, will open a second base of operations at MidAmerica Industrial Park’s airport. Tulsa Life Flight was established in 1979. It was the thirteenth helicopter air ambulance to be established in the US and the first in Oklahoma. To date, Tulsa Life Flight has completed more than 42,200 accident free flights which is a record held only by a few programs in the world. The aircraft are owned and operated by Air Methods Corporation, the largest air ambulance corporation in the world. The firm contracts with Saint Francis Hospital to provide aircraft, pilots and mechanics. \n\nThe MidAmerica Industrial park is also home to a branch of OSU Institute of Technology, which has some of the classes that OSU Institute of Technology provides. The MidAmerica Industrial Park Airport is also located in the park.\n\nMidAmerica publishes a quarterly newsletter called MidPoint to share \"news, views and other information\" about the park and the industries that we serve. A complimentary subscription is available to individuals who are involved in site selection decision making for their respective companies. \n\nIn November 2012, Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin appointed David Stewart as the chief administrative officer of the Oklahoma Ordnance Works Authority (OOWA). He succeeded Sanders Mitchell, who had headed the authority for 35 years before retiring. Stewart was formerly president and chief executive officer (CEO) of Cherokee Nation Businesses LLC and the wholly owned parent/holding company of the Cherokee Nation, which is charged with the economic development and business diversification across the Cherokee Nation's business entities. Sanders Mitchell had been hired by OOWA in 1977 to serve as general manager of the industrial park. He was promoted to the position of general manager for OOWA in 1990, following the death of the original chief administrative office, board member and founder of the Mid-America Industrial Park, Gene R. Redden, who served in this capacity from its inception in 1961 until his death in 1990. \n\n"}
{"id": "55154175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55154175", "title": "National Federation of Motion Pictures and Contents Associations", "text": "National Federation of Motion Pictures and Contents Associations\n\nThe National Federation of Motion Pictures and Contents Associations (MPC, previously known as the Federation of National Film Associations) is the main professional and trade organization of Thailand's film industry. It was established in 1991 in order to provide a central platform for the various existing professional associations, and now has 20 member associations. The federation is a member of the Asian Film Industry Network. The annual Suphannahong National Film Awards is hosted by the federation.\n"}
{"id": "20197918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20197918", "title": "Nonconformity (quality)", "text": "Nonconformity (quality)\n\nIn quality management, a nonconformity (sometimes referred to as a defect) is a deviation from a specification, a standard, or an expectation. Nonconformities can be classified in seriousness multiple ways, though a typical classification scheme may have three to four levels, including critical, serious, major, and minor. \n\nWhile some situations allow \"nonconformity\" and \"defect\" to be used synonymously, some industries distinguish between the two; a nonconformity represents a failure to meet an intended state and specification, while a defect represents a failure to meet fitness for use/normal usage requirements. This can be seen in the international software engineering standard ISO/IEC 25010 (formerly ISO/IEC 9126), which defines a nonconformity as the nonfulfillment of a requirement and a defect as the nonfulfillment of intended usage requirements.\n\nWhen ensuring quality of a product or a service, classification of a nonconformity is important, as it provides an opportunity to better reduce nonconformity. Many quality management practices will do this using a relatively simple three- or four-level classification system.For example, U.S. federal agencies such as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration have used a simple three-tier system for quality requirements of government-acquired supplies and services: minor, major, and critical nonconformance. However, some industries may develop their own, custom ranking systems. An example from the automotive industry uses a 10-point system for finer granularity, where, for example, a one represents \"none\" (no effect), a six \"moderate\" (vehicle or item operable, but comfort or convenience items inoperable), and a 10 \"hazardous without warning\" (when a potential failure mode affects safe vehicle operation without warning). Regardless of size, these classification schemes exist to help drive discovery and correction of nonconformities (and defects).\n\nThe causes of nonconformities aren't unlimited and therefore determinable. Common causes for deficiencies to arise include:\n\n"}
{"id": "28280299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28280299", "title": "Plant expressed vaccine", "text": "Plant expressed vaccine\n\nPlant expressed vaccine or project GreenVax In 2005 DARPA’s Accelerated Manufacture of Pharmaceuticals (AMP) program was created In response to emerging and novel biologic threats. In 2009 DARPA offered a government contract for a Non-GMO plant-based systems expressing recombinant proteins, due to The 2009 H1N1 swine flu pandemic that highlighted the national need for rapid and agile vaccine manufacturing capabilities. The Texas A&M University and a Texas company have been awarded a $40 million U.S. Department of Defense grant to develop a plant expressed vaccine made from tobacco. While egg-based vaccines typically take more than six months to develop after a virus is isolated, the new process will take only four to six weeks. The vice chancellor for research at A&M System declared that if the project works it will be one of the largest and most capable vaccine facilities in the world. However the major problem is the public acceptance of this technology, many of the companies are looking for the FDA approval \n\nThe plant-based vaccine production method works by isolating a specific antigen protein, one that triggers a human immune response from the targeted virus. A gene from the protein is transferred to bacteria, which are then used to “infect” plant cells. The plants then start producing the exact protein that will be used for vaccinations. Other uses of plant-expressed vaccines including the successful creation of edible bananas that protect against the Norwalk virus. \n"}
{"id": "308299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308299", "title": "Raschig ring", "text": "Raschig ring\n\nRaschig rings are pieces of tube, approximately equal in length and diameter, used in large numbers as a packed bed within columns for distillations and other chemical engineering processes. They are usually ceramic or metal and provide a large surface area within the volume of the column for interaction between liquid and gas vapours. Raschig rings are named after their inventor, the German chemist Friedrich Raschig.\n\nThey form what is now known as random packing, and enabled Raschig to perform distillations of much greater efficiency than his competitors using fractional distillation columns with trays. \n\nIn a distillation column, the reflux or condensed vapour runs down the column, covering the surfaces of the rings, while vapour from the reboiler goes up the column. As the vapour and liquid pass each other countercurrently in a small space, they tend towards equilibrium. Thus, less volatile material tends to go downwards, and more volatile material upwards. \n\nThey are also used for devices where gas and liquid are put in contact for purposes of gas absorption, stripping or chemical reaction, and as a support for biofilms in biological reactors.\n\nRaschig rings made from borosilicate glass are sometimes employed in the handling of nuclear materials, where they are used inside vessels and tanks containing solutions of fissile material, for example solutions of enriched uranyl nitrate, acting as neutron absorbers and preventing a potential criticality accident.\n\nGiven the success of the simply-shaped Raschig ring, there have been many other forms developed in an attempt to either improve upon it, or to avoid patents for particular designs.\n\nThe Pall ring attempts to increase the useful aspects of packing, by giving an increased number of edges to disrupt flow, whilst also reducing the volume taken up by the ring packing medium itself. Rather than using a solid-walled tube, the Pall ring resembles an open basket structure of thin bars. These form both a tube and also a radial structure of cross bars. Pall rings may be injection moulded of plastics, moulded of ceramics or press-formed from metal sheet.\n\nThe Raschig 'Super Ring' represents a further development of the same concepts behind the Pall ring. It optimises the production of turbulent film-type flows and prevents the formation of drops. The 'rings' no longer resemble rings but are pressed from metal sheet in the form of wave shapes of narrow strips. Super rings appeared in 1995 and have been developed through several improved generations since.\n\n"}
{"id": "371708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371708", "title": "Research Triangle Park", "text": "Research Triangle Park\n\nThe Research Triangle Park (RTP) is the largest research park in the United States. It is named for the three hub cities of Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill, or more properly for the three major research universities in those three cities (NC State University, Duke University, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill respectively). The Research Triangle region of North Carolina received its name as an extension of the name of the park. Besides the three anchor cities, the park is also bounded by the communities of Morrisville and Cary. Approximately one fourth of the park's territory lies in Wake County, but the majority of its land is in Durham County.\n\nRTP is one of the most prominent high-tech research and development parks in the United States. It was created in 1959 by state and local governments, nearby universities, and local business interests. Karl Robbins bought the land where the park is now built.\nThe park covers situated in a pine forest with of built space. The park is traversed by Interstate 40; the Durham Freeway; and NC 540.\n\nThe park is home to over 200 companies employing 50,000 workers and 10,000 contractors, including the second largest IBM operation in the world, smaller only than the one in India; the company has around 14,000 employees in RTP.\n\nThe park hosts one of GlaxoSmithKline's largest R&D centers with approximately 5,000 employees. Cisco Systems' campus in RTP, with approximately 5,000 employees, is the second highest concentration of its employees outside of its Silicon Valley corporate headquarters. The National Institute of Health has its National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences located in RTP and Durham.\n\nResearch Triangle Park is owned and managed by the Research Triangle Foundation, a private non-profit organization. In August 2017, Scott Levitan was named the organization's new President and CEO, making him the 9th leader since the foundation was established.\n\nFollowing World War II, North Carolina's economy could no longer depend upon their traditional industries of agriculture, textiles, and furniture; their market share was in decline and jobs were leaving. Academics at N.C. State and Duke came up with the idea of creating the park so that the universities could do research together, leverage the area's strengths, and keep graduates in state.\n\nEstablished in 1951 and located in North Carolina, Research Triangle Park was created to increase innovation in the area. It is bordered by Duke University, North Carolina State University, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. At first, the park struggled to recruit innovators, but in 1965, Research Triangle Park saw its largest surge of growth, thanks to heavy recruiting by the state's government and Archibald (Archie) Davis. In their article \"The Growth of Research Triangle Park,\" Link and Scott posit that entrepreneurial culture and, especially, leadership contributed the most to its success as a cluster. Archie Davis promoted a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship by locating the park near universities, actively recruiting organizations (like the American Academy of Arts and Sciences), and used his vision to raise funding for the park.\n\nDavis strongly believed that profits could not be the only driver for creating the park - the betterment of the community should be the key goal. \"The love of this state … was the motivation for the Research Triangle idea,\" he said. \"Research Triangle is a manifestation of what North Carolina is all about.\" Research Triangle Park remains a nonprofit.\n\nThe park is an unincorporated area, and state law prohibits municipalities from annexing areas within the park. Some local government functions are served by the Durham-Wake Counties Research and Production Service District, a special tax district created in 1986 that is conterminous with the park, wherein the property tax rate is limited to 10 cents per $100 valuation. The park has special zoning as a Research Applications District in the Wake County portion, and a Scientific Research Park in the Durham County portion. As of October 2012, both zoning areas are in the process of being revised to allow higher density development. The zoning changes are coupled with legislative changes allowing for Urban Research Service Districts (URSD) within the Park, which can include a mix of retail and residential usages. These newly permitted URSDs could levy taxes at the same rate as a neighboring city.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, former President and CEO of the Research Triangle Foundation, Bob Geolas, announced RTP's plans for a $50 million redevelopment involving the formation of \"Park Center.\" $20 million will be allocated from Durham County, $10 million from the Durham-Wake Counties Research and Production Service District, and $20 million as a result of land purchases and site work provided by the Research Triangle Foundation of North Carolina.\n\nPark Center is to be over 300,000 square feet of public space at the heart of the Research Triangle Park. This public area will include retail outlets, food and beverage venues, and entertainment space. Geolas states that \"We want to make all of this as local as possible. I would like to have as few chains, no chains if we could. I'd love for it all to be local. Local coffee, local food, local produce, local products.\"\n\nThe redevelopment plans also include exploring partnerships with regional transit groups. The hope of the Research Triangle Foundation is to broaden public transportation to and from the area. According to Geolas, \"We are currently having discussions about bringing the Regional Transit Center over to Park Center so that we can connect with all of our transit links.\" A public commuter rail is also in talks.\n\nThe Research Triangle Park Foundation operates three buildings within RTP. These three buildings are The Frontier, The Lab, and The Archie K. Davis Conference Center. The Frontier is a collaboration space that was first opened in January 2015. Since its inception, over 20,000 visitors have come through The Frontier's doors. The Lab is a full-service lab and office space that houses multiple Research and Development companies. The Archie K. Davis Conference Center is a 6,800-square-foot event space. The AKD Conference Center is also home to the Research Triangle Park Foundation main offices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40464952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40464952", "title": "Robert Heller (journalist)", "text": "Robert Heller (journalist)\n\nRobert Heller (10 June 1932 – 28 August 2012) was a British management journalist, management consultant, author of a series of management books, and the founding editor of \"Management Today\".\n\nBorn in London, Heller attended Christ's Hospital in the Sussex countryside, served in the Royal Army Service Corps, and then attended Jesus College, Cambridge, where he was awarded a double first in history.\n\nIn 1955 Heller started to work for the \"Financial Times\", where in 1958 he was made US correspondent. In 1963 he moved to become business editor of \"The Observer\".\n\nIn 1966 Heller was founding editor of \"Management Today\", a monthly business magazine published by Haymarket Publishing, where he worked for two decades. Here he started a second career as a writer of business books.\n\nHeller wrote about 80 management books. A selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "46960699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46960699", "title": "Roger J. Fritz", "text": "Roger J. Fritz\n\nRoger J. Fritz (July 18, 1928 – March 24, 2011) was an American management consultant, columnist, international speaker and author of 63 management development and motivational books. His most popular book was \"The Power of a Positive Attitude\", written in 2008. He was also the 17th president of Willamette University in Oregon, from 1969 to 1972.\n\nRoger Fritz was born in Green County, Wisconsin on July 18, 1928. He attended Freeport High School in Freeport, Illinois, graduating in 1946.\n\nFritz graduated with a bachelor's degree in political science from Monmouth College in Illinois in 1950. He was inducted into the Phi Alpha Theta history honorary in 1948 while at Monmouth College. He was also the Illinois finalist for a Rhodes Scholarship in 1949, and was the state and national oratory champion that same year.\n\nHe earned a master's degree in speech and a Ph.D. in educational counseling and personnel services from the University of Wisconsin, Madison in 1952 and 1956 respectively.\n\nHe served six years as a college administrator, first as an admissions counselor at Monmouth College, then as a student counselor at the University of Wisconsin, and finally as assistant dean of men and assistant professor at Purdue University from 1953–1956. He was manager of public relations at Cummins Engine Company and secretary of Cummins Foundation from 1956–1959. He ended his six-year career at John Deere and Co. as director of management development and personnel research and director of the John Deere Foundation.\n\nIn 1969, he became president of the 1500-student Willamette University in Salem, Oregon. While there, he instituted planning efforts involving more grassroots participation, developed an institutional research capability, increased faculty salaries and benefits, and expanded the fundraising office programs. In 1972, he founded Organization Development Consultants in Naperville, Illinois and served over 400 clients. In 1988, he founded his own publishing company, Inside Advantage Publications. He was the author of over 63 books on management development and personnel motivation/self-help. His books were distributed and translated in 38 countries and languages.\n\nMany of his books, including \"The Curses of Entitlement: 30 Frightening Consequences of Government Payments\", remained in print in 2015. \"What Managers Need to Know\" was in its sixth printing. \"How to Manage Your Boss\" and \"Think Like a Manager\" were also especially popular.\n\nHe was elected to the board of trustees of Monmouth College in 1957 and was chairman from 1961-1969, making him the youngest college board chairman in the country. In August 1967, he was one of three main speakers at the annual meeting of the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges where he spoke on \"Liberal Arts College Trusteeship\". In 1968, Fritz served on United States President Lyndon B. Johnson's 14-member Citizens Advisory Board of Youth Opportunity to advise the President on the effectiveness of federal, state and local programs designed to assist disadvantaged young people.\n\nHe died on March 24, 2011 in Naperville, Illinois, and was buried at Warren County Memorial Park Cemetery in Monmouth, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "42938836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42938836", "title": "Ron Carter (businessman)", "text": "Ron Carter (businessman)\n\nSir Ronald Powell Carter (born 17 June 1935) is a retired New Zealand businessman.\n\nCarter was born in Auckland in 1935, the son of Sybil Muriel (née Townsend) and Eric Powell Carter, a mechanic. He was educated at Auckland Grammar School from 1948. In 2013 he described his time at the school: \"In all my days at school, although I was in a high-achieving class, I did not cross the platform once in my five years at Auckland Grammar to receive a class or a subject prize.\"\n\nCarter then attended Auckland University College, graduating in 1958 with a Master of Engineering degree in civil engineering. His thesis was titled \"The effect of stress on the longitudinal wave velocity of an ultrasonic pulse in concrete\".\n\nCarter joined the Beca engineering company in 1959, becoming a partner in 1965 and managing director in 1986. He was chairman of the Beca group until 2002.\n\nCarter has been a member, director or chairperson of many boards, including:\n\nCarter was appointed a Knight Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to engineering and business administration in the 1998 New Year Honours, and made a member of the Order of New Zealand in the 2014 Queen's Birthday Honours.\n\nIn 2001, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in engineering by the University of Auckland.\n\nCarter has also received the following honours:\n\n"}
{"id": "16744298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16744298", "title": "Rudi Thomaes", "text": "Rudi Thomaes\n\nRudi Thomaes (21 August 1952 – 25 July 2018) was a Belgian businessman and CEO of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises and a member of VOKA.\n\nHe graduated as a bachelor of law from the University of Antwerp (UFSIA) and obtained a master's degree in law from the University of Antwerp (UIA).\n\nHe started his career as a \"Financial Export Coordinator\" at Bell Telephone in 1976. He became Managing Director and Chairman of the Management Committee of Alcatel Bell in 1999. From 1979 until 1981 he was responsible for social, legal and fiscal affairs with ITT Industries in Belgium. In 1981 he returned to Bell Telephone as a contract lawyer until 1983, during this period he negotiated the joint venture and licence contract with China. From 1984 until 1986, he was Assistant Director and Head of the Export Treasury and International Contracts Department at Bell Telephone. From 1986 until 1988 he was Area Manager EMEA and responsible for the marketing of digital switching networks. From 1988 until 1998, he was General Counsel for Alcatel Bell, and responsible for the legal department and the relations with the European Union. In 1997, he became responsible for the strategic change plan of Alcatel Bell. On 1 January 1999, he became Chief Operating Officer and on 1 October 1999 Chief Executive Officer and President of the Alcatel Bell Management Committee\n\nFrom 2004 to 2012, Rudi Thomaes was CEO of the Federation of Belgian Enterprises and since 29 March 2005 he was a regent of the National Bank of Belgium.\n\n"}
{"id": "30001771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30001771", "title": "Salim Wardeh", "text": "Salim Wardeh\n\nSalim Wardeh (Arabic: سليم وردة) (born October 1, 1968, in Zahle, Lebanon) was the Minister of Culture in Lebanon until June 2011, when he was replaced by Gaby Layoun. Wardeh is a Catholic Christian and is a member of the Lebanese Forces which in turn is a member of the March 14 Alliance. Wardeh is a member of the board of directors of Tell Shiha Hospital. He also holds Australian citizenship.\n\nHe is the General Manager of Solifed, a family business specializing in making wine that was founded in 1971 but dates back to 1893.\n\nHe is married to Nidal Hakim and has two children Macy(1996) and Aziz(1998)\n\nHe underwent a failed kidnapping attempt in 1977. The kidnappers wanted to ask for ransom from Wardeh's wealthy business family.\n\n\nAlternative transliterations used in the media: Warde, Wardy.\n\n"}
{"id": "55620134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55620134", "title": "Salmon Levinson", "text": "Salmon Levinson\n\nSalmon Oliver Levinson (1865 – 1941) was a practicing attorney who specialized in industrial organizations and corporate law. He was active in the peace movement in the nineteen-twenties and was responsible for drafting the Kellogg–Briand Pact, signed in 1928. Levinson noted: \"We should have, not as now, laws of war, but laws against war; just as there are no laws of murder or of poisoning, but laws against them.” The treaty was the first international agreement to make war illegal. The treaty commits the parties to \"condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies, and renounce it, as an instrument of national policy\" and agree that all disputes should be settled peacefully.\n"}
{"id": "45432395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45432395", "title": "Samuel Paul Garner", "text": "Samuel Paul Garner\n\nSamuel Paul Garner (Aug. 15, 1910 - Oct. 16, 1996) was an American accounting scholar, and Professor at the University of Alabama, known for his work \"Evolution of cost accounting to 1925.\"\n\nBorn in Yadkinville, North Carolina to Samuel W. and Ila Jane (Hoots) Garner, Garner at Duke University obtained his AB in 1932, and his AM in 1934. He then moved to the University of Texas at Austin where he obtained his PhD in 1940 under supervision of George Hillis Newlove. He was awarded an honorary degree by the Pusan National University, and by the University of Alabama in 1971.\nAfter his graduation in 1939 Garner joined the Culverhouse School of Accountancy at the University of Alabama, where he would serve his entire academic career. He started out as faculty member, and was Dean of the College of Business from 1954 to 1971. He was consultant to the US Department of Education, to the Department of Defense and for the Department of State he conducted educational research in South America, Europe, Africa, and Asia. Garner was President of the American Accounting Association in 1951-52, and also served as President of the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business in 1964-65.\n\nGarner is characterized as \"perhaps the last of the leaders of an age when the academic and professional community were driven to new levels of size and activity during the economic expansion of the post World War II period.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "42042668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42042668", "title": "Sohrab Vossoughi", "text": "Sohrab Vossoughi\n\nSohrab Vossoughi is an Iranian-American entrepreneur, product designer and founder of Ziba Design, a design and innovation consultancy based in Portland, Oregon. He named BusinessWeek's Entrepreneur of the Year in 1992.\n\nSohrab was born in Tehran, Iran in 1956. He moved to the United States in 1971. After studying mechanical engineering for three years, he switched to study industrial design. He graduated from San Jose State University’s Department of Industrial Design in 1979.\n\nVossoughi joined Hewlett-Packard Corp. In 1982, he began independent consulting for startup companies in Portland, Oregon. By 1984, he had launched a product development firm he named ZIBA Design.\n"}
{"id": "2933789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2933789", "title": "Steam exploded fiber", "text": "Steam exploded fiber\n\nSteam exploded fiber is a pulping and extraction technique that has been applied to wood and other fibrous organic material. The resulting fibers can be combined with organic polymers to produce fiber composite materials. Alternatively, the fibers, along with other extracted substances, can be processed chemically or digested to produce ethanol and other useful substances.\n\n"}
{"id": "1968748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1968748", "title": "William Astor, 4th Viscount Astor", "text": "William Astor, 4th Viscount Astor\n\nWilliam Waldorf Astor III, 4th Viscount Astor (born 27 December 1951) is an English businessman and politician who sits as a Conservative hereditary Lord Temporal in the House of Lords. He is a member of the Astor family known for its prominence in business, society, and politics in both the United States and the United Kingdom.\n\nWilliam Waldorf III is the son of William Astor, 3rd Viscount Astor (1907–1966) and Sarah Kathleen Elinor Norton (1920–2013). From his father's later marriages, he has three younger half-sisters: Emily (born 1956), Janet (born 1961), and Pauline (born 1964). From his mother's remarriage to Thomas Michael Baring, he has a younger half-brother named Edward Richard Philip Baring (born September 1962). He was educated at Eton College.\n\nAstor was a Lord-in-waiting (a House of Lords whip) from 1990 to 1993. He was then made a Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at the Department of Social Security. In 1994, he moved to the Department of National Heritage where he served until leaving the government in 1995.\n\nHe was a member of the Founding Council of the Rothermere American Institute at the University of Oxford.\n\nViscount Astor is Chairman of Silvergate Media and director of Networkers Plc (since 2007) and trustee of Stanley Spencer Gallery in Cookham.\n\nAstor married Annabel Lucy Veronica Jones (born 1948), daughter of Timothy Angus Jones and Patricia David Pandora Clifford on 14 January 1976. They have three children:\n\n\nThe heir to the viscountcy is his elder son, Will, who married model Lohralee Stutz, daughter of Serge Alain Stutz and Lerma Villas, at East Hendred, Oxfordshire on 5 September 2009. They have a son William Waldorf Astor V (born 4 May 2012) and a daughter Allegra Annabel Astor (born 14 August 2013).\n\nHis wife Annabel's stepfather was his uncle Michael Langhorne Astor. \n\nViscountess Astor was previously married to Sir Reginald Sheffield, 8th Baronet by whom she is the mother of Samantha Cameron, wife of former Prime Minister David Cameron.\n\n"}
{"id": "28128918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28128918", "title": "William Lowther Jackson", "text": "William Lowther Jackson\n\nWilliam Lowther Jackson Jr. (February 3, 1825 – March 26, 1890) was an American politician and jurist who served as Lieutenant Governor of Virginia prior to the American Civil War, and later served as a general in the Confederate States Army.\n\nWilliam L. Jackson was a cousin of Thomas J. \"Stonewall\" Jackson through their great-grandparents, John Jackson (1715 or 1719 – 1801) and Elizabeth Cummins (also known as Elizabeth Comings and Elizabeth Needles) (1723–1828). John Jackson was a Protestant (Ulster-Scottish) from Coleraine, County Londonderry, Ireland. While living in London, England, he was convicted of the capital crime of larceny for stealing £170; the judge at the Old Bailey sentenced him to seven years of indentured servitude in America. Elizabeth, a strong, blonde woman over tall, born in London, England was also convicted of larceny in an unrelated case for stealing 19 pieces of silver, jewelry, and fine lace, and received a similar sentence. They both were transported on the prison ship \"Litchfield\", which departed London in May 1749 with 150 convicts. John and Elizabeth met on board and were in love by the time the ship arrived at Annapolis, Maryland. Although they were sent to different locations in Maryland for their indentures, the couple married in July 1755.\n\nThe family migrated west across the Blue Ridge Mountains to settle near Moorefield, Virginia (now West Virginia) in 1758. In 1770, they moved farther west to the Tygart Valley. They began to acquire large parcels of virgin farming land near the present-day town of Buckhannon, including 3,000 acres (12 km²) in Elizabeth's name. John and his two teenage sons, were early recruits for the American Revolutionary War, fighting in the Battle of Kings Mountain on October 7, 1780; John finished the war as captain and served as a lieutenant of the Virginia militia after 1787. While the men were in the Army, Elizabeth converted their home to a haven, \"Jackson's Fort,\" for refugees from Indian attacks.\n\nJohn and Elizabeth had eight children. Their eldest son, George Jackson (1757–1831), was a colonel in the Virginia militia during the Revolutionary War and Congressman from Virginia. George and his wife, Elizabeth Brake (1757–1812), daughter of Jacob and Mary E. (née Cooper) Brake, had three children; their youngest was William's father, William Lowther Jackson Sr. (1798–1836), who also served in the Virginia militia.\n\nJackson was born on February 3, 1825 in Clarksburg, Virginia (now West Virginia). Studying law he was admitted to the Bar of Virginia in 1847. He married Sarah Elizabeth Creel on December 19, 1849, and together they had two or three children. Jackson was a big man, standing about six feet tall and weighing about 200 pounds. He had a shock of dark red hair and piercing blue eyes like those of his famous cousin, Thomas Jackson. William Jackson was not known as an eloquent speaker, but he was known as a forceful one. He later became the Commonwealth's Attorney for Harrison County. Entering politics he was elected into the Virginia House of Delegates two times, also serving as Second Auditor of the State and as superintendent of the state library fund. Jackson was the third Lieutenant Governor of Virginia from 1857 until 1860 and afterwards was made a circuit judge in the 19th district.\n\nWhen the civil war erupted Jackson, a proponent of slavery, resigned from his position as judge and enlisted in the Confederate States Army as a Private. Recommended to General Robert E. Lee he quickly was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel of the 31st Virginia Infantry Regiment. Assigned to the command of Gen. Robert S. Garnett he participated in the Western Virginia Campaign and the battles of Rich Mountain and Cheat Mountain. In July 1861 he was promoted to rank of Colonel. In early 1862 he became a Volunteer Aide-de-camp to his cousin, Maj. Gen. Thomas J. Jackson; and participated in his campaigns during the year.\n\nWilliam's younger brother George, who was a graduate of West Point (Class of 1856) and served in the U.S. Army, became a colonel in the Confederate Army, too.\n\nIn February 1863 William Jackson was authorized to organize a mounted regiment for service behind the enemy lines and he raised the 19th Virginia Cavalry. His regiment immediately joined the Jones-Imboden Raid, first under command of Albert G. Jenkins, then under John D. Imboden. Jackson stayed in western Virginia, being assigned to command a cavalry brigade. He fought at the Bulltown and confronted George Crook's Union Army on its return into West Virginia following Crook's victory at the Battle of Cloyd's Mountain. In 1864 he joined Lt. Gen. Jubal Early in the Valley Campaigns from May to October. He received his promotion to brigadier general on December 19, 1864.\n\nOn April 15, 1865, six days after Gen. Lee surrendered the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House, he disbanded his brigade. Refusing to surrender, he headed westwards, finally getting a parole in Brownsville, Texas, on July 26, 1865.\n\nTemporarily emigrating to Mexico, he returned to what was now Western Virginia just to learn that former Confederate officers were barred from practicing law in the state. He then moved to Louisville, Kentucky, where he was allowed to resume his practice of law. Jackson became a circuit judge again and kept this position for his remaining life. He died on March 26, 1890 of Bright's disease in Louisville; and was interred there on Cave Hill Cemetery.\n\nWilliam L. Jackson is one of three Confederate generals associated with the nickname \"Mudwall\", a reference to the \"Stonewall\" nickname given to his cousin Thomas. While William Jackson has been known as such for a long time, it was found by noted historian Garry W. Gallagher that the nickname was originally given to fellow Confederate General Alfred E. Jackson from Tennessee (no family relation). It seems the two were mixed up in the Southern Historical Society Papers in 1906 and the error was involuntarily repeated afterwards. Sometimes the name is even attributed to another (likewise not related) Confederate Brigadier, John K. Jackson. It is also possible that at times the name was attributed to several of the Jacksons simultaneously.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24209131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24209131", "title": "Work improvement in small enterprises", "text": "Work improvement in small enterprises\n\nWork Improvement in Small Enterprises (WISE) is a practical programme developed by the International Labour Organization for improvement of occupational health and safety conditions - in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). It is a highly pragmatic approach that focus on simple low-cost interventions which improve both labor productivity and work conditions at the same time. A complete training package with an action manual and a trainers' manual is available from the ILO.\n\nThe programme has found particular use in developing economies.\n\nThe programme was originally launched as a PIACT activity in 1976.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8824715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8824715", "title": "Yury Kovalchuk", "text": "Yury Kovalchuk\n\nYury Valentinovich Kovalchuk (, born 25 July 1951) is a Russian billionaire businessman and financier who is \"reputed to be Vladimir Putin's personal banker\". The May 2008 issue of Russian \"Forbes\" listed him for the first time in its \"Golden Hundred\" of Russia's richest, calling him and another new entrant to the \"List\", Gennady Timchenko, \"good acquaintances of Vladimir Putin.\" The magazine placed him at number 53 on the Russians-only list, with an estimated fortune of $1.9 billion. After sanctions imposed on Kovalchuk in 2018, this dropped to $650 million.\n\nFrom 1987 to 1991 he was the first deputy director of Ioffe Physico-Technical Institute. Since 2004 he has been chair of Rossiya Bank and its largest shareholder.\n\nSince the early 1990s Kovalchuk has owned a dacha in Solovyovka in the Priozersky District of the Leningrad region, located on the eastern shore of the Komsomolskoye lake on the Karelian Isthmus near St. Petersburg. His neighbours there are Vladimir Putin, Vladimir Yakunin, Andrei Fursenko, Sergey Fursenko, Viktor Myachin, Vladimir Smirnov and Nikolay Shamalov. Together they instituted the co-operative society Ozero (the Lake) which united their properties on 10 November 1996. \n\nHis elder brother Mikhail Kovalchuk is the scientific secretary of the Council for Science and High Technologies attached to the president of the Russian Federation.\n\nIn 2015 Yury Kovalchuk's National Media Group (NMG) and US Discovery channel joined forces to form Media Alliance  of which NMG owns 80% . Later that year, Kovalchuk acquired the rights to Ted Turner’s Russian assets including the Russian version of CNN, Cartoon Network and Boomerang. The reason for the sale was based on the Russian media ownership law that limits ownership of Russian media by foreigners. \n\nIn 2017 Kovalchuk purchased the century-old Novy Svet vineyard in the Crimean Peninsula for $26.4 million in one of the first privatization deals in the region since the annexation of the region by Russia. \n\nKovalchuk was one of several individuals sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury Department on 20 March 2014 in response to the 2014 Crimean crisis. According to the U.S. Treasury, Kovalchuk is a close advisor to President Putin and has been referred to as one of his “cashiers.”\n\nKovalchuk is a known friend of Putin’ he hosted the wedding of Putin’s daughter Katerina Tikhonova to Kirill Shamalov at his wholly owned ski resort, Igora, in 2013.\n\n"}
