{"id": "17815572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17815572", "title": "2008 Zanzibar power blackout", "text": "2008 Zanzibar power blackout\n\nThe 2008 Zanzibar Power blackout was an extensive power outage on Zanzibar, Tanzania.\n\nA similar and longer event happened in Zanzibar in 2009. The island was without power for more than three months.\n\nDuring May and June 2008, Zanzibar suffered a period of almost one month without mains electricity due to a grid failure which left the entire island dependent on alternative methods of electricity generation (mainly diesel generators). Power failed on 21 May 2008 after a wide-area grid failure across the Tanzanian network was followed by a power surge which damaged the submarine interconnector cable that links the Tanzanian mainland and Zanzibar.\n\nThe power was eventually restored on 19 June 2008, however, concerns remained about the fragility of the island's transmission infrastructure, its near total dependence on the mainland for its electricity generation, and the capacity and condition of the ageing interconnector that links the mainland electricity network and the island grid.\n\nTourism in Zanzibar, the main income generating activity on the islands, was seriously disrupted by the outage. Other important industries, including the Zanzibar Electric Company and independent small businesses were \"severely hit\" by the blackout. The island's semi-autonomous government was criticized for its lack of preparedness and dependence on power from mainland Tanzania. \n\nOn 10 December 2009, Zanzibar was again plunged into darkness because of failure of the undersea cable. On 23 December 2009, the Isles Minister of Energy and Construction, Mansour Yussuf Himid, was quoted in the Daily News newspaper published in Dar es Salaam as saying that the blackout would last until the end of February while a critical spare part known as a \"splitter\" was being sourced from overseas. He was also quoted as saying that the undersea cable was dilapidated and needed to be replaced entirely.\n\nThe undersea cable had a projected working life of 25 years when laid in 1976. It has now served for almost 35 years, ten years after it was due to be replaced.\n\nThe power in Zanzibar was restored in March, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "53020419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53020419", "title": "2021 World Women's Handball Championship", "text": "2021 World Women's Handball Championship\n\nThe 2021 World Women's Handball Championship, the 25th event hosted by the International Handball Federation, will be held in Spain in 2021. On 18 October 2018, after a congress in Doha, Qatar, the IHF announced that the World Championship would be expanded from 24 teams to 32 teams, from 2021 onwards for both men and women.\n\nSpain and Hungary bids for the right to organise the 2021 Women's World Handball Championship. The International Handball Federation decided that voting for the selection of host country will be done during the 2017 World Men's Handball Championship in a IHF Council meeting held in Paris (France) on 28 January 2017.\n\nThe bid includes the following six host cities/venues:\n\nThe President of Royal Spanish Handball Federation confirmed that full support is granted by the Olympic Movement, Spanish government and the handball community. The Spanish government has guaranteed the introduction of all the necessary measures so that the event is celebrated in a full security setting, with special attention paid to key infrastructures for the staging of the competitions and to IHF operations, its subsidiaries and delegations from different countries.\n\nThe bid includes the following six host cities/venues:\n\nThe 2021 Women's World Handball Championship was awarded to Spain by a secret ballot of voting by the IHF Council members.\n\nThe bid includes the following six host cities/venues:\n"}
{"id": "7957776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7957776", "title": "57th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "57th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nAussiecon Three was the 57th World Science Fiction Convention, held in Melbourne, Australia on 2–6 September 1999. The convention was held in the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre.\n\n\n\nThe Hugo Award ceremony was directed and hosted by Michael Jordan and Executive assistant Paula McGrath.\n\n\n\nSan Jose won the vote for the 62nd World Science Fiction Convention in 2005 by a large majority. A hoax bid for Roswell, New Mexico was the only other bid filed.\n\n\n\nStephen Boucher, Christine Dziadosz, Donna Heenan, Michael Jordan, Mark Linneman, Perry Middlemiss, and Alan Stewart\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1296905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1296905", "title": "A Tale of Two Kitties", "text": "A Tale of Two Kitties\n\nA Tale of Two Kitties is a 1942 \"Merrie Melodies\" cartoon directed by Bob Clampett. This short subject is notable for being Tweety Bird's debut, although known as Orson in this short, according to the staff. written by Warren Foster, and features music by Carl W. Stalling. It was also the first appearance of Babbit and Catstello, based on the popular comedy duo Abbott and Costello. The title is an obvious pun on the Charles Dickens classic, \"A Tale of Two Cities\".\n\nEven in this initial appearance, Tweety reveals early on that his cute appearance masks a willingness to be merciless, even sadistic, towards anyone who threatens him. After slipping one of the cats a bomb which explodes (offscreen), the bird remarks, \"Aw, da poor putty tat - he cwushed his widdow head!\" Followed by a big grin. (This line was patterned after a catchphrase from a Red Skelton character, and would be used in other Warner cartoons, such as \"Easter Yeggs\".) This is one of the few Tweety shorts that did not feature his main antagonist Sylvester, who would not make his official debut until 1945, in \"Life with Feathers\".\n\nUnited Artists failed to renew the copyright in time in 1970, so the short is now in the public domain in the United States. As such, it can also be found on bootleg home video VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray sets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51318613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51318613", "title": "Algeria at the 1967 Mediterranean Games", "text": "Algeria at the 1967 Mediterranean Games\n\nAlgeria (ALG) competed at the 1967 Mediterranean Games in Tunis, Tunisia.\n\n"}
{"id": "55337587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55337587", "title": "Alleged (film)", "text": "Alleged (film)\n\nAlleged is a 2010 American historical romantic drama film starring Nathan West, Ashley Johnson, Colm Meaney, Fred Thompson and Brian Dennehy. The film dramatizes the Scopes Trial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9820592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9820592", "title": "Anticipatory grief", "text": "Anticipatory grief\n\nAnticipatory grief refers to a feeling of grief occurring before an impending loss. Typically, the impending loss is the death of someone close due to illness. This can be experienced by dying individuals themselves and can also be felt due to non-death-related losses like a scheduled mastectomy, pending divorce, company downsizing or war.\n\nThe five stages namely, denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance proposed by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross in her model of grief describe the process by which people undergo after a loss. Anxiety, dread, guilt, helplessness, hopelessness, and feelings of being overwhelmed are also common. However, it is important to note that anticipatory grief is not simply normal grief begun earlier.\n\nFeatures identified specifically with anticipatory grief include heightened concern for the dying person, rehearsal of the death and attempts to adjust to the consequences of the death. The period can allow people to resolve issues with the dying person and to say goodbye. It may provide some sense of orientation and access to the grieving process. For some, it prompts conscious closure before the end/loss.\n\nGrief happening prior to a loss presents a compounding issue of isolation because of a lack of social acceptance. Anticipatory grief doesn't usually take the place of post-loss grief: there is not a fixed amount of grief to be experienced, so grief experienced before the loss does not necessarily reduce grief after the death. However, there may be little grieving after the loss due to anticipatory grief.\n\nHow often anticipatory grief occurs is a subject of some controversy. For example, a study of widows found that they stayed with their husbands until the death and could only mourn once the death had occurred. Researchers suggest that to start to grieve as though the loss has already happened can leave the bereaved feeling guilt for partially abandoning the patient.\n\nMany family members can find themselves in a caregiving role during their loved one's process of death. During the progression of the illness, the security and protectiveness of the caregiver also increases. Bouchal, Rallison and Sinclair discuss that, \"the strong need to offer protection was part of the anticipatory mourning experience of striving to be with in the present\".\n\nIn the process of anticipatory grief, family members also begin to prepare and reflect on how their lives will be once their loved one passes. There are many ways in which to perform reflection. These ways include: \"...reading, journaling, thinking, and reflecting about how life might be like without their partner.\" The journal also expands on the premise that the preparation process is not an individual process. Those who are affected by the impending death often look towards one another for support as well as others who are involved in care such as nurses and social workers.\n\nA direct correlation exists between anticipatory grieving and the caregiver's quality of life. In a quantitative study conducted by Al-Gamal and Long, the effect of a pediatric cancer diagnosis on parents had a negative impact on the majority of study participants. More specifically, parents reported experiencing increasing stress and a decrease in physical and mental health – all of which affect the process of anticipatory grief.\n\nUltimately, anticipatory grieving is an extremely dynamic process that differs between individuals. The outcomes of the grieving process depend on the preparation of death and the anticipatory grief process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496", "title": "August 18", "text": "August 18\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56285025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56285025", "title": "Avar–Byzantine wars", "text": "Avar–Byzantine wars\n\nThe Avar–Byzantine wars were a series of conflicts between the Byzantine Empire and the Avar Khaganate. The conflicts were initiated in 568, after the Avars arrived in Pannonia, and claimed all the former land of the Gepids and Lombards as their own. This led to them attempting to seize the city of Sirmium from Byzantium, which had previously retaken it from the Gepids, without success. Most of their future conflicts came as a result of raids by the Avars, or their subject Slavs, into the Balkan provinces of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nThe Avars usually raided the Balkans when the Byzantine Empire was distracted elsewhere, typically in its frequent wars with the Sassanid Empire in the East. As a result, they often raided with impunity for long periods of time, before Byzantine troops could be freed from other fronts to be sent on punitive expeditions. This happened during in the 580s and 590s, where Byzantium was initially distracted in the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 572–591, but then followed up by a series of successful campaigns that pushed the Avars back.\n\nThe Avars arrived in the Carpathian Basin in 568, fleeing from the Turkic Khaganate. They quickly entered into an alliance with the Lombards to seize the land of the Gepids. However, during this process, the Lombards retreated to Italy, allowing the Avars to take both the lands of the Gepids and the former lands of the Lombards for themselves, creating the Avar Khaganate. The Avars then claimed all former territory of both as their own territory. This included Sirmium, which had been recently reconquered by the Byzantines from the Gepids, and would serve as the first cause of conflict between the Avars and the Byzantines.\n\nThe Avars were heavily dependent upon the skills and labor of their subject peoples for both siege warfare and logistics. Subject peoples, such as the early Slavs and the Huns, had long traditions of engineering and craftsmanship, such as the building of boats and bridges, and the use of rams, tortoise formations, and artillery in sieges. In every documented use of siege engines by the Avars, the Avars depended upon subject peoples who had knowledge of them, usually the Sabirs, Kutrigurs, or Slavs. Avar military tactics also relied upon speed and shock.\n\nThe Avars almost immediately launched an attack on Sirmium in 568, but were repulsed. The Avars withdrew their troops back to their own territory, but allegedly sent 10,000 Kotrigur Huns, a people who like the Avars had been forced into the Carpathians by the Turkic Khaganate, to invade the Byzantine province of Dalmatia. They then began a period of consolidation, during which the Byzantines paid them 80,000 gold solidi a year. Except for a raid on Sirmium in 574, they did not threaten Byzantine territory until 579, after Tiberius II stopped the payments. The Avars retaliated with another siege of Sirmium. The city fell in , or possibly 582. After the capture of Sirmium, the Avars demanded 100,000 solidi a year.\nRefused, they began pillaging the northern and eastern Balkans, which only ended after the Avars were pushed back by the Byzantines from 597 to 602.\n\nAfter capturing Sirmium, the Avars began to rapidly encroach into the Balkans. Their rapid spread was helped by the ongoing Byzantine–Sasanian War of 572–591, which left the Byzantine garrisons on the Danube frontier under-manned and underpaid. Because of this, the Avars and Slavs were able to raid with impunity, with the Byzantines only being able to harass raiding columns and set small ambushes, rather than forcing a decisive victory or launching a counteroffensive. The Avars took the cities of Augustae, Singidunum, and Viminacium in 583, and a further eight of the nine cities they besieged in 586. Many of these sieges relied upon the Avars utilizing both surprise and speed, advantages which they lost after they moved further inland in 587. Nevertheless they destroyed many cities in Moesia in 587 including Marcianopolis and Kabile though they failed in the sieges of Diocletianopolis, Philippopolis, and Beroe. In 588, they abandoned the siege of Singidunum after only seven days, in exchange for a meagre ransom. After this they succeeded at the siege of Anchialos, with the support of a fleet manned by Slavic auxiliaries, they then started and quickly abandoned the sieges of Drizipera and Tzurullon. The Avars and Slavs continued to raid with little resistance until 591, when Emperor Maurice won the war with the Sassanids, and shifted his focus to the Balkans.\n\nAfter the end of the Byzantine war with the Sassanids in 591, Emperor Maurice shifted his focus to the Balkans. Maurice deployed veteran troops to the Balkans, allowing the Byzantines to shift from a reactive strategy to a pre-emptive one. The general Priscus was tasked with stopping the Slavs from crossing the Danube in spring 593. He routed several raiding parties, before he crossed the Danube and fought the Slavs in what is now Wallachia until autumn. Maurice ordered him to make camp on the northern bank of the Danube, however Priscus instead retired to Odessos. Priscus' retreat allowed for a new Slav incursion in late 593/594 in Moesia and Macedonia, with the towns of Aquis, Scupi and Zaldapa being destroyed.\n\nIn 594 Maurice replaced Priscus with his own brother, Peter. Due to his inexperience, Peter suffered initial failures, but eventually managed to repulse the tide of Slav and Avar incursions. He set up base at Marcianopolis, and patrolled the Danube between Novae and the Black Sea. In late August of 594, he crossed the Danube near Securisca and fought his way to the Helibacia river, preventing the Slavs and Avars from preparing new pillaging campaigns. Priscus, who had been given command of another army, prevented the Avars from besieging Singidunum in 595, in combination with the Byzantine Danube fleet. After this, the Avars shifted their focus to Dalmatia, where they sacked several fortresses, and avoided confronting Priscus directly. Priscus was not particularly concerned about the Avar incursion, as Dalmatia was a remote and poor province; he sent only a small force to check their invasion, keeping the main body of his forces near the Danube. The small force was able to hamper the Avar advance, and even recovered a part of the loot taken by the Avars.\n\nAfter being hampered in their invasion of Dalmatia, the Avars were discouraged by their lack of success against the Byzantines, and thus began to make their raids against the Franks, who they saw as being easier to attack, launching major raids against them in 596. Due to the shift in focus, there was little activity in the Balkans from 595 to 597.\n\nEmboldened by the plunder from the Franks, the Avars resumed their raids across the Danube in autumn of 597, catching the Byzantines by surprise. The Avars even caught Priscus' army while it was still in its camp in Tomis, and laid siege to it. However, they lifted the siege on 30 March 598 due to an approaching Byzantine army led by Comentiolus, which had just crossed Mount Haemus and was marching along the Danube up to Zikidiba, only from Tomis. For unknown reasons, Priscus did not join Comentiolus when he pursued the Avars. Comentiolus made camp at Iatrus, however he was routed by the Avars, and his troops had to fight their way back over the Haemus. The Avars took advantage of this victory and advanced to Drizipera, near Constantinople. At Drizipera the Avar forces were struck by a plague, leading to the death of a large portion of their army, and seven sons of Bayan, the Avar Khagan.\n\nDue to the threat posed by the Avar forces at Drizipera, Comentiolus was replaced with Philippicus, and recalled to Constantinople. Maurice assembled a force made up of the Circus Factions and his bodyguards to defend the Anastasian Wall. Maurice then paid off the Avars for a temporary truce, spending the rest of 598 reorganizing his forces and analyzing how to improve the Byzantines' strategy. In the same year, the Byzantines concluded a peace treaty with the Avars, which allowed the Byzantines to send expeditions into Wallachia.\n\nIgnoring the peace treaty, the Byzantines made preparations to invade the Avars' land. Priscus made camp near Singidunum and wintered there in 598/599. In 599 Priscus and Comentiolus led their troops downstream to Viminacium, and crossed the Danube. Once on the north bank, they defeated the Avars in the Battles of Viminacium. This battle was significant, as it was the first time the Avars suffered a major defeat in their home territory, and also led to the deaths of several more of Bayan's sons. After the battle, Priscus led his forces north into the Pannonian plain, engaging and defeating the Avars deep within their heartland. Comentiolus meanwhile remained near the Danube, to guard it. Priscus devastated the lands east of the Tisza, inflicting heavy casualties on the Avars and Gepids, and defeating them in two further battles on the banks of the Tisza. In autumn 599, Comentiolus reopened the Gates of Trajan, which had not been used by the Byzantines for decades. In 601 Peter led troops to the banks of the Tisza, to defend the Danube cataracts, which were vital to the Byzantine Danube fleet's access to the cities of Sirmium and Singidunum. The next year, in 602, the Antes began to invade the Avars' land, who were already on the brink of collapse due to the uprisings of several Avar tribes, one of whom even defected to the Byzantines.\n\nAfter being beaten back by the Byzantines under Maurice, the Avars shifted their focus to Italy, establishing diplomatic contact in 603, and attempting an invasion of North Italy in 610. The Balkan frontier was largely pacified, for the first time since the reign of Anastasius I (). Maurice planned to repopulate the devastated lands which the Byzantines had recovered by settling Armenian peasants, as well as romanizing the Slav settlers already in the area. Maurice also planned to lead further campaigns against the Avar Khaganate, so as to either destroy them or force them into submission. However, Maurice was overthrown in 602 by Phocas, as his army rebelled at the endless Balkan campaigning. Phocas promptly scrapped those plans.\n\nPhocas maintained the security of the Balkans during his reign from 602 to 610, although he did withdraw some forces from the Balkans in 605, in order to use them in the ongoing Byzantine-Sassanid War of 602–628. There is no archaeological evidence of Slav or Avar incursions during this time. While the lack of Byzantine action encouraged the Avars, they did not attack Byzantine territory until , when Emperor Heraclius () withdrew his troops stationed in the Balkans in order to fight the Persian advance in the East.\n\nThe Avars, who were likely encouraged by their successful campaigns against the Lombards in 610 and the Franks in 611, resumed their incursions some time after 612. By 614, with the Persian capture of Jerusalem, it became clear to the Avars and their Slav subjects that retaliation from the Byzantines was extremely unlikely. Chronicles of the 610s record wholesale pillaging, with cities such as Justiniana Prima and Salona succumbing. The cities of Naissus and Serdica were captured in 615, and the cities of Novae and Justiniana Prima were destroyed in 613 and 615, respectively. The Slavs also raided in the Aegean, as far as Crete, in 623. During this time period, there were three separate sieges of Thessalonica: in 604, 615, and 617. In 623 the Byzantine emperor Heraclius journeyed into Thrace in an attempt to agree peace with the Avar Khagan face to face. Instead the Byzantines were ambushed, with Heraclius narrowly escaping and most of his bodyguard and retainers being killed or captured. The Avar raids continued, culminating in the Siege of Constantinople in 626, where the Avars were finally defeated.\n\nThe Persian king Khosrau II, after suffering reverses through Heraclius' campaigns in the Persian rear, resolved to launch a decisive strike. While general Shahin Vahmanzadegan was sent to stop Heraclius with 50,000 men, Shahrbaraz was given command of a smaller army and ordered to slip by Heraclius' flank, and march for Chalcedon, a Persian base across the Bosporus from Constantinople. Khosrau II also made contact with the Khagan of the Avars to allow for a coordinated attack on Constantinople, the Persians on the Asiatic side, and the Avars from the European side.\n\nThe Avar army approached Constantinople from Thrace and destroyed the Aqueduct of Valens. Because the Byzantine navy controlled the Bosporus strait, the Persians could not send troops to the European side to aid the Avars, which deprived the Avars of the Persian expertise in siege warfare. Byzantine naval superiority also made communication between the two forces difficult. Constantinople's defenders were under the command of Patriarch Sergius and the patrician Bonus.\nOn 29 June 626, the Avars and Persians began a coordinated assault upon the walls. The Byzantine defenders had 12,000 well-trained cavalry troops, who were likely dismounted, facing roughly 80,000 Avars and Sclaveni (Slavs whose land was controlled by the Avars). Because the Persian base in Chalcedon had been established for many years, it was not immediately obvious that a siege would take place. It only became obvious to the Byzantines after the Avars began to move heavy siege equipment towards the Theodosian Walls. Although the walls were continuously bombarded for a month, morale was high in the city; Patriarch Sergius bolstered morale by leading processions along the tops of the walls, carrying the Blachernitissa icon of the Virgin Mary. The peasantry around Constantinople were rallied by this religious zeal, especially because both forces attacking Constantinople were heathens.\n\nOn August 7, a fleet of Persian rafts ferrying troops across the Bosporus to the European side were surrounded and destroyed by the Byzantine fleet. The Sclaveni then attempted to attack the Sea Walls from across the Golden Horn, while the Avars attacked the land walls. However, the Sclaveni boats were rammed and destroyed by the galleys of Bonus, and the Avar land assaults on August 6th and 7th were repelled. At around this point, the news that the Emperor's brother Theodore had decisively defeated Shahin arrived, leading the Avars to retreat to the Balkan hinterland within two days. They would never seriously threaten Constantinople again. Even though the Persian army of Shahrbaraz still remained at Chalcedon, the threat to Constantinople was over, as the Persians could not use artillery from their side of the Bosporus. In thanks for the lifting of the siege and the supposed divine protection granted by the Virgin Mary, the celebrated Akathist Hymn was written by an unknown author, possibly Patriarch Sergius or George of Pisidia.\n\nAfter failing to capture Constantinople, the Avars rapidly began to decline before disintegrating entirely, due to both internal power struggles, and conflicts with the Bulgars and Sclaveni. After their hegemony over various tribal peoples collapsed, their land was further reduced by the Bulgars around 680, leaving behind a rump state which remained until their conquest by Charlemagne, starting in 790 and ending in 803.\n\n"}
{"id": "11414272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11414272", "title": "Beovizija 2005", "text": "Beovizija 2005\n\nBeovizija 2005 is the 3rd edition of Beovizija. Jelena Tomašević won Beovizija 2005 with the song Jutro, written by Željko Joksimović and Aleksandra Milutinović. She received 78 points from the jury and the maximum 12 points by SMS and televoting. \n\nHosts were actors Boda Ninković & Jelena Jovičić who sang many former Eurovision Song Contest hits as a tribute to 50th anniversary of the event.\n"}
{"id": "44058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44058", "title": "Big Bang nucleosynthesis", "text": "Big Bang nucleosynthesis\n\nIn physical cosmology, Big Bang nucleosynthesis (abbreviated BBN, also known as primordial nucleosynthesis, arch(a)eonucleosynthesis, archonucleosynthesis, protonucleosynthesis and pal(a)eonucleosynthesis) refers to the production of nuclei other than those of the lightest isotope of hydrogen (hydrogen-1, H, having a single proton as a nucleus) during the early phases of the Universe. Primordial nucleosynthesis is believed by most cosmologists to have taken place in the interval from roughly 10 seconds to 20 minutes after the Big Bang, and is calculated to be responsible for the formation of most of the universe's helium as the isotope helium-4 (He), along with small amounts of the hydrogen isotope deuterium (H or D), the helium isotope helium-3 (He), and a very small amount of the lithium isotope lithium-7 (Li). In addition to these stable nuclei, two unstable or radioactive isotopes were also produced: the heavy hydrogen isotope tritium (H or T); and the beryllium isotope beryllium-7 (Be); but these unstable isotopes later decayed into He and Li, as above.\n\nEssentially all of the elements that are heavier than lithium were created much later, by stellar nucleosynthesis in evolving and exploding stars.\n\nThere are several important characteristics of Big Bang nucleosynthesis (BBN):\n\nThe key parameter which allows one to calculate the effects of BBN is the baryon/photon number ratio, which is a small number of order 6 × 10. This parameter corresponds to the baryon density and controls the rate at which nucleons collide and react; from this it is possible to calculate element abundances after nucleosynthesis ends. Although the baryon per photon ratio is important in determining element abundances, the precise value makes little difference to the overall picture. Without major changes to the Big Bang theory itself, BBN will result in mass abundances of about 75% of hydrogen-1, about 25% helium-4, about 0.01% of deuterium and helium-3, trace amounts (on the order of 10) of lithium, and negligible heavier elements. That the observed abundances in the universe are generally consistent with these abundance numbers is considered strong evidence for the Big Bang theory.\n\nIn this field, for historical reasons it is customary to quote the helium-4 fraction \"by mass\", symbol Y, so that 25% helium-4 means that helium-4 atoms account for 25% of the mass, but less than 8% of the nuclei would be helium-4 nuclei. Other (trace) nuclei are usually expressed as number ratios to hydrogen.\n\nThe creation of light elements during BBN was dependent on a number of parameters; among those was the neutron-proton ratio (calculable from Standard Model physics) and the baryon-photon ratio.\n\nThe neutron-proton ratio was set by Standard Model physics before the nucleosynthesis era, \nessentially within the first 1-second after the Big Bang. \nNeutrons can react with positrons or electron neutrinos to create protons and other products in one of the following reactions:\n\nAt times much earlier than 1 sec, these reactions were fast and maintained the n/p ratio close to 1:1. As the temperature dropped, the equilibrium shifted in favour of protons due to their slightly lower mass, and the n/p ratio smoothly decreased. \nThese reactions continued until the decreasing temperature and density caused the reactions to become too slow, which occurred at about T = 0.7 MeV (time around 1 second) and is called the freeze out temperature. At freeze out, the neutron-proton ratio was about 1/6. However, free neutrons are unstable with a mean life of 880 sec; some neutrons decayed in the next few minutes before fusing into any nucleus, so the ratio of total neutrons to protons after nucleosynthesis ends is about 1/7. Almost all neutrons that fused instead of decaying ended up combined into helium-4, due to the fact that helium-4 has the highest binding energy per nucleon among light elements. This predicts that about 8% of all atoms should be helium-4, leading to a mass fraction of helium-4 of about 25%, which is in line with observations. Small traces of deuterium and helium-3 remained as there was insufficient time and density for them to react and form helium-4.\n\nThe baryon–photon ratio, η, is the key parameter determining the abundances of light elements after nucleosynthesis ends. Baryons and light elements can fuse in the following main reactions:\n\nalong with some other low-probability reactions leading to Li or Be. \n(An important feature is that there are no stable nuclei with mass 5 or 8, which implies that reactions adding one baryon to He, or fusing two He, do not occur). \nMost fusion chains during BBN ultimately terminate in He (helium-4), while \"incomplete\" reaction chains lead to small amounts of left-over H or He; the amount of these decreases with increasing baryon-photon ratio. That is, the larger the baryon-photon ratio the more reactions there will be and the more efficiently deuterium will be eventually transformed into helium-4. This result makes deuterium a very useful tool in measuring the baryon-to-photon ratio.\n\nBig Bang nucleosynthesis began roughly 10 seconds after the big bang, when the universe had cooled sufficiently to allow deuterium nuclei to survive disruption by high-energy photons. (Note that the neutron-proton freeze-out time was earlier). This time is essentially independent of dark matter content, since the universe was highly radiation dominated until much later, and this dominant component controls the temperature/time relation. At this time there were about \nsix protons for every neutron, but a small fraction of the neutrons decay before fusing in the next few hundred seconds, so at the end of nucleosynthesis there are about seven protons to every neutron, and almost all the neutrons are in Helium-4 nuclei. The sequence of these reaction chains is shown on the image.\n\nOne feature of BBN is that the physical laws and constants that govern the behavior of matter at these energies are very well understood, and hence BBN lacks some of the speculative uncertainties that characterize earlier periods in the life of the universe. Another feature is that the process of nucleosynthesis is determined by conditions at the start of this phase of the life of the universe, and proceeds independently of what happened before.\n\nAs the universe expands, it cools. Free neutrons are less stable than helium nuclei, and the protons and neutrons have a strong tendency to form helium-4. However, forming helium-4 requires the intermediate step of forming deuterium. Before nucleosynthesis began, the temperature was high enough for many photons to have energy greater than the binding energy of deuterium; therefore any deuterium that was formed was immediately destroyed (a situation known as the deuterium bottleneck). Hence, the formation of helium-4 is delayed until the universe became cool enough for deuterium to survive (at about T = 0.1 MeV); after which there was a sudden burst of element formation. However, very shortly thereafter, around twenty minutes after the Big Bang, the temperature and density became too low for any significant fusion to occur. At this point, the elemental abundances were nearly fixed, and the only changes were the result of the radioactive decay of the two major unstable products of BBN, tritium and beryllium-7.\n\nThe history of Big Bang nucleosynthesis began with the calculations of Ralph Alpher in the 1940s. Alpher published the Alpher–Bethe–Gamow paper that outlined the theory of light-element production in the early universe.\n\nDuring the 1970s, there was a major puzzle in that the density of baryons as calculated by Big Bang nucleosynthesis was much less than the observed mass of the universe based on measurements of galaxy rotation curves and galaxy cluster dynamics. This puzzle was resolved in large part by postulating the existence of dark matter.\n\nBig Bang nucleosynthesis produced very few nuclei of elements heavier than lithium due to a bottleneck: the absence of a stable nucleus with 8 or 5 nucleons. This deficit of larger atoms also limited the amounts of lithium-7 produced during BBN. In stars, the bottleneck is passed by triple collisions of helium-4 nuclei, producing carbon (the triple-alpha process). However, this process is very slow and requires much higher densities, taking tens of thousands of years to convert a significant amount of helium to carbon in stars, and therefore it made a negligible contribution in the minutes following the Big Bang.\n\nThe predicted abundance of CNO isotopes produced in Big Bang nucleosynthesis is expected to be on the order of 10 that of H, making them essentially undetectable and negligible. Indeed, none of these primordial isotopes of the elements from lithium to oxygen have yet been detected, although those of beryllium and boron may be able to be detected in the future. So far, the only stable nuclides known experimentally to have been made before or during Big Bang nucleosynthesis are protium, deuterium, helium-3, helium-4, and lithium-7.\n\nBig Bang nucleosynthesis predicts a primordial abundance of about 25% helium-4 by mass, irrespective of the initial conditions of the universe. As long as the universe was hot enough for protons and neutrons to transform into each other easily, their ratio, determined solely by their relative masses, was about 1 neutron to 7 protons (allowing for some decay of neutrons into protons). Once it was cool enough, the neutrons quickly bound with an equal number of protons to form first deuterium, then helium-4. Helium-4 is very stable and is nearly the end of this chain if it runs for only a short time, since helium neither decays nor combines easily to form heavier nuclei (since there are no stable nuclei with mass numbers of 5 or 8, helium does not combine easily with either protons, or with itself). Once temperatures are lowered, out of every 16 nucleons (2 neutrons and 14 protons), 4 of these (25% of the total particles and total mass) combine quickly into one helium-4 nucleus. This produces one helium for every 12 hydrogens, resulting in a universe that is a little over 8% helium by number of atoms, and 25% helium by mass.\n\nOne analogy is to think of helium-4 as ash, and the amount of ash that one forms when one completely burns a piece of wood is insensitive to how one burns it. The resort to the BBN theory of the helium-4 abundance is necessary as there is far more helium-4 in the universe than can be explained by stellar nucleosynthesis. In addition, it provides an important test for the Big Bang theory. If the observed helium abundance is significantly different from 25%, then this would pose a serious challenge to the theory. This would particularly be the case if the early helium-4 abundance was much smaller than 25% because it is hard to destroy helium-4. For a few years during the mid-1990s, observations suggested that this might be the case, causing astrophysicists to talk about a Big Bang nucleosynthetic crisis, but further observations were consistent with the Big Bang theory.\n\nDeuterium is in some ways the opposite of helium-4, in that while helium-4 is very stable and difficult to destroy, deuterium is only marginally stable and easy to destroy. The temperatures, time, and densities were sufficient to combine a substantial fraction of the deuterium nuclei to form helium-4 but insufficient to carry the process further using helium-4 in the next fusion step. BBN did not convert all of the deuterium in the universe to helium-4 due to the expansion that cooled the universe and reduced the density, and so cut that conversion short before it could proceed any further. One consequence of this is that, unlike helium-4, the amount of deuterium is very sensitive to initial conditions. The denser the initial universe was, the more deuterium would be converted to helium-4 before time ran out, and the less deuterium would remain.\n\nThere are no known post-Big Bang processes which can produce significant amounts of deuterium. Hence observations about deuterium abundance suggest that the universe is not infinitely old, which is in accordance with the Big Bang theory.\n\nDuring the 1970s, there were major efforts to find processes that could produce deuterium, but those revealed ways of producing isotopes other than deuterium. The problem was that while the concentration of deuterium in the universe is consistent with the Big Bang model as a whole, it is too high to be consistent with a model that presumes that most of the universe is composed of protons and neutrons. If one assumes that all of the universe consists of protons and neutrons, the density of the universe is such that much of the currently observed deuterium would have been burned into helium-4. The standard explanation now used for the abundance of deuterium is that the universe does not consist mostly of baryons, but that non-baryonic matter (also known as dark matter) makes up most of the mass of the universe. This explanation is also consistent with calculations that show that a universe made mostly of protons and neutrons would be far more \"clumpy\" than is observed.\n\nIt is very hard to come up with another process that would produce deuterium other than by nuclear fusion. Such a process would require that the temperature be hot enough to produce deuterium, but not hot enough to produce helium-4, and that this process should immediately cool to non-nuclear temperatures after no more than a few minutes. It would also be necessary for the deuterium to be swept away before it reoccurs.\n\nProducing deuterium by fission is also difficult. The problem here again is that deuterium is very unlikely due to nuclear processes, and that collisions between atomic nuclei are likely to result either in the fusion of the nuclei, or in the release of free neutrons or alpha particles. During the 1970s, cosmic ray spallation was proposed as a source of deuterium. That theory failed to account for the abundance of deuterium, but led to explanations of the source of other light elements.\n\nLithium-7 and lithium-6 produced in the Big Bang are in the order of: lithium-7 to be 10 of all primordial nuclides; and lithium-6 around 10.\n\nThe theory of BBN gives a detailed mathematical description of the production of the light \"elements\" deuterium, helium-3, helium-4, and lithium-7. Specifically, the theory yields precise quantitative predictions for the mixture of these elements, that is, the primordial abundances at the end of the big-bang.\n\nIn order to test these predictions, it is necessary to reconstruct the primordial abundances as faithfully as possible, for instance by observing astronomical objects in which very little stellar nucleosynthesis has taken place (such as certain dwarf galaxies) or by observing objects that are very far away, and thus can be seen in a very early stage of their evolution (such as distant quasars).\n\nAs noted above, in the standard picture of BBN, all of the light element abundances depend on the amount of ordinary matter (baryons) relative to radiation (photons). Since the universe is presumed to be homogeneous, it has one unique value of the baryon-to-photon ratio. For a long time, this meant that to test BBN theory against observations one had to ask: can \"all\" of the light element observations be explained with a \"single value\" of the baryon-to-photon ratio? Or more precisely, allowing for the finite precision of both the predictions and the observations, one asks: is there some \"range\" of baryon-to-photon values which can account for all of the observations?\n\nMore recently, the question has changed: Precision observations of the cosmic microwave background radiation with the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) and Planck give an independent value for the baryon-to-photon ratio. Using this value, are the BBN predictions for the abundances of light elements in agreement with the observations?\n\nThe present measurement of helium-4 indicates good agreement, and yet better agreement for helium-3. But for lithium-7, there is a significant discrepancy between BBN and WMAP/Planck, and the abundance derived from Population II stars. The discrepancy is a factor of 2.4―4.3 below the theoretically predicted value and is considered a problem for the original models, that have resulted in revised calculations of the standard BBN based on new nuclear data, and to various reevaluation proposals for primordial proton-proton nuclear reactions, especially the abundances of , versus .\n\nIn addition to the standard BBN scenario there are numerous non-standard BBN scenarios. These should not be confused with non-standard cosmology: a non-standard BBN scenario assumes that the Big Bang occurred, but inserts additional physics in order to see how this affects elemental abundances. These pieces of additional physics include relaxing or removing the assumption of homogeneity, or inserting new particles such as massive neutrinos.\n\nThere have been, and continue to be, various reasons for researching non-standard BBN. The first, which is largely of historical interest, is to resolve inconsistencies between BBN predictions and observations. This has proved to be of limited usefulness in that the inconsistencies were resolved by better observations, and in most cases trying to change BBN resulted in abundances that were more inconsistent with observations rather than less. The second reason for researching non-standard BBN, and largely the focus of non-standard BBN in the early 21st century, is to use BBN to place limits on unknown or speculative physics. For example, standard BBN assumes that no exotic hypothetical particles were involved in BBN. One can insert a hypothetical particle (such as a massive neutrino) and see what has to happen before BBN predicts abundances that are very different from observations. This has been done to put limits on the mass of a stable tau neutrino.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9486496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486496", "title": "Brit Insurance Design Awards", "text": "Brit Insurance Design Awards\n\nBrit Insurance Design Awards, established in 2003 by the Design Museum in London, is the United Kingdom's pre-eminent design award with a £25,000 prize. The prize \"aims to stimulate public debate about design and to raise awareness of its role enhancing the quality of daily life, and in its first three years was televised on BBC Two. \n\nA judging panel made up of renowned design experts decide the best entries in the seven categories, with Individual category award-winners announced in February to then go forward to compete to be the Brit Insurance Designer of the Year, which is announced at an Awards Dinner in March.\n\nThe Brit Insurance Designs of the Year exhibition, showcasing all the shortlisted designs is held annually at the Design Museum. It is an exploration of the most innovative, interesting and forward looking designs produced over the last twelve months from around the world and celebrated in seven categories: Architecture, Transport, Graphics, Interactive, Product, Furniture and Fashion. A number of internationally respected design experts are invited to nominate up to five projects, each of which, in their view, represents the best or the most interesting designs produced or launched in the last year.\n\nThe winner in 2003 was Jonathan Ive, senior vice-president of industrial design at Apple, Inc., whose innovations include the iPod, iPhone and iMac. In 2004, the award was won by digital designer and artist Daniel Brown. In 2005, the museum courted controversy by awarding the prize to a Design Council official, Hillary Cottam, rather than to an actual architect or designer. In 2006, a humanitarian architect, Cameron Sinclair, whose work aided many disaster-ravaged communities across the world, was competing against a graphic designer, Jamie Hewlett, for his work on the popular Gorillaz virtual band. Gorillaz won the award.In 2009, renowned American street artist, activist and designer Shepard Fairey was awarded for his iconic \"Hope\" poster commemorating the inauguration of President Barack Obama. In 2011, Hulger and Sam Wilkinson won with their Plumen designer low energy light bulb.\n\nhttp://www.britinsurance.com\n"}
{"id": "33896116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33896116", "title": "Cache stampede", "text": "Cache stampede\n\nA cache stampede is a type of cascading failure that can occur when massively parallel computing systems with caching mechanisms come under very high load. This behaviour is sometimes also called dog-piling.\n\nTo understand how cache stampedes occur, consider a web server that uses memcached to cache rendered pages for some period of time, to ease system load. Under particularly high load to a single URL, the system remains responsive as long as the resource remains cached, with requests being handled by accessing the cached copy. This minimizes the expensive rendering operation.\n\nUnder low load, cache misses result in a single recalculation of the rendering operation. The system will continue as before, with average load being kept very low because of the high cache hit rate.\n\nHowever, under \"very\" heavy load, when the cached version of that page expires, there may be sufficient concurrency in the server farm that multiple threads of execution will all attempt to render the content of that page simultaneously. Systematically, none of the concurrent servers know that the others are doing the same rendering at the same time. If sufficiently high load is present, this may by itself be enough to bring about congestion collapse of the system via exhausting shared resources. Congestion collapse results in preventing the page from ever being completely re-rendered and re-cached, as every attempt to do so times out. Thus, cache stampede reduces the cache hit rate to zero and keeps the system continuously in congestion collapse as it attempts to regenerate the resource for as long as the load remains very heavy.\n\nTo give a concrete example, assume the page in consideration takes 3 seconds to render and we have a traffic of 10 requests per second. Then, when the cached page expires, we have 30 processes simultaneously recomputing the rendering of the page and updating the cache with the rendered page.\n\nBelow is a typical cache usage pattern for an item that needs to be updated every units of time:\n\nIf the function takes a long time and the key is accessed frequently, many processes will simultaneously call upon expiration of the cache value.\n\nIn typical web applications, the function may query a database, access other services, or perform some complicated operation (which is why this particular computation is being cached in the first place). When the request rate is high, the database (or any other shared resource) will suffer from an overload of requests/queries, which may in turn cause a system collapse.\n\nSeveral approaches have been proposed to mitigate cache stampedes. (Also known as dogpile prevention) They can be roughly grouped in 3 main categories.\n\nTo prevent multiple simultaneous recomputations of the same value, upon a cache miss a process will attempt to acquire the lock for that cache key and recompute it only if it acquires it.\n\nThere are different implementation options for the case when the lock is \"not\" acquired:\n\nIf implemented properly, locking can prevent stampedes altogether, but requires an extra write for the locking mechanism. Apart from doubling the number of writes, the main drawback is a correct implementation of the locking mechanism which also takes care of edge cases including failure of the process acquiring the lock, tuning of a time-to-live for the lock, race-conditions, and so on.\n\nThis solution moves the recomputation of the cache value from the processes needing it to an external process. The recomputation of the external process can be triggered in different ways:\n\nThis approach requires one more moving part - the external process - that needs to be maintained and monitored. In addition, this solution requires unnatural code separation/duplication and is mostly suited for static cache keys (i.e., not dynamically generated, as in the case of keys indexed by an id).\n\nWith this approach, each process may recompute the cache value before its expiration by making an independent probabilistic decision, where the probability of performing the early recomputation increases as we get closer to the expiration of the value. Since the probabilistic decision is made independently by each process, the effect of the stampede is mitigated as less processes will expire at the same time.\n\nThe following implementation based on an exponential distribution has been shown to be optimal in terms of its effectiveness in preventing stampedes and how early recomputations can happen.\n\nThe parameter can be set to a value greater than 1 to favor earlier recomputations and further reduce stampedes but the authors show that setting =1 works well in practice. The variable represents the time to recompute the value and is used to scale the probability distribution appropriately.\n\nThis approach is simple to implement and effectively reduces cache stampedes by automatically favoring early recomputations when the traffic rate increases. One drawback is that it takes more memory in cache as we need to bundle the value \"delta\" with the cache item - when the caching system does not support retrieval of the key expiration time, we also need to store the (that is, ) in the bundle.\n\n"}
{"id": "20867373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20867373", "title": "Caesar's Camp, Bracknell Forest", "text": "Caesar's Camp, Bracknell Forest\n\nCaesar's Camp is an Iron Age hill fort around 2400 years old. It is located just in Crowthorne civil parish to the south of Bracknell in the English county of Berkshire. It falls within the Windsor Forest and is well wooded, although parts of the fort have now been cleared of some trees. The area is managed by the Forestry Commission but owned by Crown Estate Commission, and is open and accessible to the public. The hill fort covers an area of about 17.2 acres (7 hectares) and is surrounded by a mile-long ditch, making it one of the largest in southern England.\n\nThe origin of the name \"Caesar's Camp\" is unknown. However, the hill fort is close to the Roman road known as the Devil's Highway, and this may have led Medieval mapmakers to attribute the structure (wrongly) to the Romans. But the person who named the road must not have known its Roman origin, so mistakenly attributed it to Satan.\n\nCaesar's Camp is thought to have been established around 500–300BC. It is the only hill fort of its type that has been identified in east Berkshire. Because the area had a thick bed of sandstone beneath the top layers of soil, it was likely not suitable for farming – the community at Caesar's Camp was therefore dependent on the produce of neighbouring settlements. Caesar's Camp was therefore most likely used as an assembly point and a marketplace. Its huge outer walls and dump rampart also suggest that it was used as a safe haven in case of attack.\nCaesar's Camp appears to have fallen under the rule of Cunobelin, king of the Catuvellauni tribe in the first century AD from a coin discovered in the interior. Soon after, the Romans invaded England; after this time, there is no evidence that Caesar's Camp continued to exist as an inhabited community. A road from its south entrance was later built, connecting it to the Devil's Highway (Roman Britain). There is a small Roman settlement about halfway along this road, known as Wickham Bushes, which has yielded pottery and other Roman artifacts. The main Roman road connected Londinium with Calleva Atrebatum, the tribal capital of the Atrebates celtic tribe about 10 miles to the west in Hampshire.\n\nA redoubt roughly 40 m across in the fort is thought to be part of a defence line built in 1792 in preparation for the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe layout consists of a number of steep banks and ditches in the shape of an oak leaf, enclosing a large flat area of a settlement. The main entrance is at its northern end (at the tip of the leaf) and is very well defended with multiple banks and a sinuous entrance road. The banks to the side of the entrance are very steep, guiding any entrants along the way. It is north of the Roman road known as the Devil's Highway\nwhich connected Londinium to Calleva Atrebatum (Silchester). It is within the Crowthorne Woods part of Swinley Forest crown plantation and is located off Nine Mile Ride approximately from the Look Out visitor centre. Much of the fort is covered by mature broadleaf and coniferous trees, although some of the spruce plantation on the southern part of the fort has been cleared, and the ground reverted to heathland and scrub. On clear days, central Bracknell and Crowthorne, including Broadmoor hospital, are visible from its highest points. The camp falls within the Broadmoor to Bagshot Woods and Heaths Site of Special Scientific Interest, and forms part of the northern edge of the SSI. The zone protects numerous rare birds such as the woodlark and nightjar, as well as its diverse insect life and fauna.\n\nIt is an entirely hand-built complex. The camp has suffered significant erosion, both natural and man-made. Efforts have been made by Bracknell Forest Council to restore some of the natural parts. A geophysical survey (examining the sub-structures) of 2 ha was undertaken in 1995 before the restoration work which found some evidence for sustained occupation and structures; the survey did find a ditch type anomaly within the western ramparts and a scatter of pit type anomalies.\n\nThe site was reoccupied between 29 August and 8 September 1978, when it became the location of the last of the Windsor Free Festivals in 1978, after the forced removal of those attempting to attend the People's Free Festival, in Windsor Great Park, by police.\n\n"}
{"id": "36093531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36093531", "title": "Compagnie de 1602", "text": "Compagnie de 1602\n\nThe Compagnie de 1602 is an historic and patriotic association in Geneva who organize the official commemoration of the Escalade. This association was established on March 31, 1926.\n\nThe Escalade was celebrated immediately after the attack of the Savoyards, but the patriotic commemoration became very important only in the middle of the 19th century (in 1860). In this time, Geneva builds monuments in memory of the Escalade. The first processions with historical costumes take place(1867–1868) - military and gymnastics groups compose the processions - and the famous Pot in chocolate is created (10 décembre 1881).\n\nIn 1898, \"the genevan patriotic association for the Escalade\" is created with the aim of the tercentenary of the Escalade (in 1902). The Compagnie de 1602 is created some years after, on March 31, 1926 and succeeds the former association \nOctober 27, 1926 a few months after its foundation, the association has 56 members - named \"Compagnons\" ; some are very famous Genevan or Swiss personalities, for instance: Gustave Ador, Édouard Elzingre...\n\nIn 1926 as today, the Members of the Compagnie must be Swiss and receive the signature and agreement of two members (as a sponsorship). The foreigners are welcomed as sympathizers members. Every member - men, women and children - pays a financial contribution. Finally there is no religious, political or social distinction within this association.\nIn 2011 the association had approximately 2500 members.\nThe historical costumes which dress approximately 800 persons during the Parade of Escalade do not date from 1602. They were made at the beginning and in the middle of the 20th century and they are inspired by the drawings of Elzingre. However, historical research shows that some colors used in these costumes did not exist in 1602 and are not good examples of austere lifestyle in Geneva after the Reformation...\nThis solemn parade take place on Friday evening and traditionally marks the start of the festivities. Legacy of earlier parades of the early 20th century, it reflects the will to make a tribute to the 18 victims of the Geneva Escalade. Thus, along a path leading from Bourg-de-Four to the Protestant church of Saint-Gervais - burial place of those victims - the political authorities of the city and county lay flowers on three commemorative monuments - la Tertasse, la Corraterie et Saint-Gervais.\n\nOn Sunday evening, lit by torchbearers creating a special atmosphere, the parade into the town attracts tens of thousands of people.\nBringing in good order all costumed compagnons, horses, carriages and weapons, the parade explores the old city, the lower streets, and the Saint-Gervais area during more than 3 hours.\nAlong the way, the parade stops in five emblematic places of the city (Bourg-de-Four, Molard, Coutance, Corraterie, Cour Saint-Pierre), places where the herald - horseman dressed in the colors of Geneva - delivers proclamation - an oration recalling the history of the Escalade to the people gathered. The last step in the forecourt of the Geneva's Cathedral Saint-Pierre traditionally ends with a bonfire.\nWith this procession, the Escalade could be the largest free historical reconstitution in Europe.\nThe next weekend of celebration and remembrance will take place on December 11, 12 and 13th, 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2467827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2467827", "title": "Crowd counting", "text": "Crowd counting\n\nCrowd counting or crowd estimating is a technique used to count or estimate the number of people in a crowd.\n\nThe most direct method is to actually count each person in the crowd. For example, turnstiles are often used to precisely count the number of people entering an event. \n\nAt events in streets or a park rather than an enclosed venue, crowd counting is more difficult and less precise. For many events, especially political rallies or protests, the number of people in a crowd carries political significance and count results are controversial. For example, the global protests against the Iraq war had many protests with widely differing counts offered by organizers on one side and the police on the other side. Another memorable incident occurred when Louis Farrakhan threatened to sue the Washington, D.C. Park Police for announcing that only 400,000 people attended the 1995 Million Man March he organized. The National Park Police still estimates crowd size for its own planning purposes, but does not publicly reveal the figures.\n\nThe most common technique for counting crowds at protests and rallies is Jacobs's Method, named for its inventor, Herbert Jacobs. Jacobs method involves dividing the area occupied by a crowd into sections, determining an average number of people in each section, and multiplying by the number of sections occupied. According to a report by \"Life's Little Mysteries\", technologies sometimes used to assist such estimations include \"lasers, satellites, aerial photography, 3-D grid systems, recorded video footage and surveillance balloons, usually tethered several blocks around an event's location and flying 400 to 800 feet (120 to 240 meters) overhead.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55311419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55311419", "title": "Cyclone Preparedness Programme", "text": "Cyclone Preparedness Programme\n\nCyclone Preparedness Programme is a disaster management program of the Government and Bangladesh Red Crescent Society in Bangladesh and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The program is under the management of the Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief.\n\nThe program was developed to work as an early warning system in coastal Bangladesh in 1973 by President Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The program has been credited with saving thousands of lives. The Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, called it \"Global Best Practice\". It has 55 thousand volunteers.\n"}
{"id": "19736057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19736057", "title": "Egg balancing", "text": "Egg balancing\n\nEgg balancing is a traditional Chinese practice that has since been popularized in the United States. Although the irregular shape of eggs makes this somewhat difficult, eggshells typically have many imperfections such that the vast majority can be balanced with minimal effort. Despite folklore connecting this practice to the lunar new year in China, the Dragon Boat Festival in Taiwan and the vernal equinox in the United States, egg balancing can be done throughout the year and has no connection to the gravitational force of the moon or sun.\n\nEgg balancing has been connected with Lichun, the solar term beginning \"Chinese\" spring () on February 4 or 5 when the sun is at the celestial longitude of 315°. On this day, fresh chicken eggs were balanced on their broad end. In Taiwan, the practice is sometimes connected with the Dragon Boat Festival instead, on the fifth day of the fifth lunar month.\n\nA 1945 \"Life\" article reported on \"an egg-balancing craze\" among the population of Chungking (the interim capital of China during World War II) on that year's Lichun. That article and subsequent followings-up started a similar egg-balancing craze in the United States, but transposed to the vernal equinox beginning \"Western\" spring on March 20 or 21 when the sun is at the celestial longitude of 0°. The idea that an egg is easier to balance on the spring equinox has since become an American urban legend, and egg-balancing events are sometimes held on that date. In 1976, New York artist Donna Henes started organizing egg-balancing ceremonies with the stated goal of bringing about world peace and international harmony. These events, which often drew thousands of people, are still held annually by Henes in New York City.\n\nIn fact, the balancing of most eggs on their broad ends is not particularly difficult at any time of the year. No physical influence of other celestial bodies on the egg can affect its balance to the extent required by the folk belief. Gravitational and electromagnetic forces, in particular, are considerably weaker and steadier than the disturbances created by the person's breathing and heartbeat.\n\nIn 1947, after Japanese newspapers picked up the story, the physicist Ukichiro Nakaya verified experimentally that eggs in fact can be balanced with ease at any time of the year. He noticed that the shell of an egg usually has many small bumps and dimples so that, by turning the egg in different directions, it can be made to touch a flat surface on three points at the same time in many ways. It is not hard to find an orientation such that the egg's center of mass is contained within the triangle spanned by the three contact points, which is the condition for balancing any object. His findings were replicated by astronomer Frank D. Ghigo of the University of Minnesota in 1984.\n\nWriting on the subject, Martin Gardner speculated that the folk beliefs inspired people to \"try a little harder, be more patient, and use steadier hands\" and possibly even to subconsciously sabotage attempts on other days. He compared the self-reinforcing delusion to a \"Ouija-board phenomenon \".\n\n"}
{"id": "12676284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12676284", "title": "Estonia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002", "text": "Estonia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2002\n\nThe Estonian final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2002 was held on 26 January at the Linnahall in Tallinn, hosted by Marko Reikop and Karmel Eikner.\n\nThe winning song was chosen by an international panel of 8 judges which included Nicki French (UK 2000), Nusa Derenda (Slovenia 2001), Bo Halldorsson (Iceland 1995), Marlain (Cyprus 1999), Moshe Datz (Israel 1991) plus jurors from Sweden, Germany and Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "33463461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33463461", "title": "Fiera Milano", "text": "Fiera Milano\n\nFiera Milano SpA is a trade fair and exhibition organiser headquartered in Milan, Italy. It is the most important trade fair organiser in Italy and one of the largest in the world. \n\nThe company started operation on 1 October 2000 and has been listed on Borsa Italiana (STAR segment) since 12 December 2002. \n\nFiera Milano mainly operates in the fields of management and organisation of exhibitions, trade fairs and conferences. It hosts about seventy shows (of which about one third directly organized) and 30,000 exhibitors every year.\n\nMost notably, Fiera Milano owns and manages important infrastructures in Milan: \"Fieramilanocity\", \"MiCo\" and \"Fieramilano\", the latter being one of the biggest fairground in the world.\n\nThe first fair ground in Milan was opened in 1906, as the area of a World's fair, and in time for the opening of the Simplon Tunnel. The fairground at that time extended over the current area and the nearby Sempione Park.\n\nIn 1923 the fairground, at that time \"Fiera Campionaria\", was moved permanently in the historical zone, of which Fieramilanocity now occupies a part. Western wing opened in 1997, in place of the old Alfa Romeo factory at \"Portello\".\n\nSince 2000, the infrastructure is managed by the new company Fiera Milano SpA and in 2005 the new Fieramilano opened in Rho. The old fairground in Milan was partially dismantled between 2007 and 2008.\n\nAmong the most prominent events held in the fairground of Fiera Milano are the annual Salone del Mobile, Milan Furniture and Craft Fair; EICMA, Milan Motorcycle Show; SMAU computer expo; BIT, the International Tourism Exchange; BIMEC, Biennial for mechatronics, and EMO, Machine Tool World Expo.\n\nFieramilano is a fairground located in an area on the border between the towns of Rho and Pero, near the A4 motorway, west of Milan. \n\nOpened in 2005 with an investment of €755 million, the complex designed by architect Massimiliano Fuksas includes eight pavilions for a total of of gross covered exhibition space and of outdoor space, making it one of the largest centers in the world.\n\nThe exhibition area is connected to the city center through Milan Metro Line 1 stop Rho Fiera. A suburban railway station is also present.\n\nThe vicinity and the interior of the complex was the site of Expo 2015 universal exposition, and will host the Next Generation ATP Finals tennis tournament starting in 2017.\n\nFieramilanocity is Milan's old trade fair, located near the city center. The current area is only a part of the historic fairground, since a big portion has been dismantled between 2007 and 2008 to make room for the new \"CityLife\" residential and business district. The area is served by Milan Metro and by the suburban railway.\n\nEven though the big part of the fairground has been moved to Rho, \"FieraMilanoCity\" continues to host smaller exhibitions with more limited logistical requirements, in addition to events that cannot be held outside the city.\n\nMiCo (Milano Congressi) is currently the largest congress center in Europe, with a capacity of up to 18,000 in 70 different conference rooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1562416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1562416", "title": "Florida National High Adventure Sea Base", "text": "Florida National High Adventure Sea Base\n\nThe Florida National High Adventure Sea Base is a high adventure program base run by the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) in the Florida Keys. Its counterparts are the Philmont Scout Ranch in northern New Mexico, the Northern Tier National High Adventure Bases in Ely, Minnesota, and The Summit Bechtel Family National Scout Reserve near the New River Gorge National River in southern West Virginia.\n\nThe main Sea Base is located in Islamorada, Florida on the end of Lower Matecumbe Key. Other bases include the Brinton Environmental Center located on Summerland Key (which oversees Big Munson Island located 5.5 miles southeast) and the Bahamas Sea Base in Marsh Harbour, Abaco, Bahamas.\n\nThe Florida Sea Base Conference Center has become an alternative training site to the Philmont Training Center. Most conferences it hosts are for professionals or national level committees, but it also hosts conferences for outside groups.\n\nIn 1928, the Sea Base property was the site for the first ferry terminal in the original overseas highway. Cars would board the boat and travel to No Name Key, where the road would continue. The Terminal Lunch stand, later called the Ferry Slip Cafe opened around the same time. In the Early 1930s, the property was known as WPA camp number 3. WPA workers were building a new highway parallel to the Overseas Railroad. The 1935 Labor Day Hurricane, changed everything. The entire camp was destroyed in the storm. Most of the workers who lived at the camp were World War I veterans. Many of the workers were being evacuated to Homestead when their rescue train was washed off the tracks on Upper Matecumbe Key. Over 450 people died in the Islamorada area during the hurricane. The evidence of the worker's progress is still evident today. Veterans key, in front of Sea Base's marina, is a man made island made for a highway right-of-way. 8 bridge pilings protrude out of the water about a quarter of a mile west of veterans key, for a bridge that was to connect Lower Matecumbe Key and Jewfish Bush Key and was never built.\n\nThe new Overseas Highway completed in 1938, included a toll house on the current location of Sea Base's commissary. The toll was removed in 1954. The Ferry Slip Cafe became the Toll Gate Inn and it was owned by local shark fisherman, Wynn Tyler. The Toll Gate Inn was a 10-room motel, a bar, restaurant, marina and gas station. The marina was dredged in the early 1950s, at the same time that most of the canals in Lower Matecumbe Key were dredged out.\n\nIn 1974 a handful of volunteers from Miami, Florida and Atlanta, Georgia came together to develop a high adventure program using the waters in and around the Florida Keys as their foundation. The BSA National High Adventure chairman, John R Donnell Sr, asked the then Camping Director of the South Florida Council, Sam Wampler, to coordinate trips to Freeport in The Bahamas. Sam, using his station wagon and a warehouse, operated this program until 1979. The original Florida Gateway High Adventure committee members were Paul Benedum, John R Donnell Sr., Spurgeon Gaskin, Ernie Jamison, and chairman Charlie Topmiller. In 1977 over 700 participants were in the program, urging the Florida Gateway committee to look for a permanent location for a camp. Under Wampler's leadership, the National Council received a 1.3-million-dollar grant from the Fleischmann Foundation. Following some extensive research, the Old Toll Gate Motel and Marina and was purchased in 1979 at a cost of $800,000. The remaining $500,000 was used to construct the sailing dorms, the quarterdeck, general manager's residence, to repair to the T-dock, purchase a SCUBA compressor, and renovate the restaurant to a dining hall and office.\n\nThe camp began small, but started growing immediately. The former Land Between the Lakes National High Adventure Base contributed a couple of canoes, a pontoon boat, some office equipment and one employee, Stu Cottrrell, who became the first program director. The Florida Gateway High Adventure Base opened on May 15, 1980. 800 Scouts attended the first summer. By 1982 construction and renovation was complete and the name was changed to the Florida National High Adventure Sea Base. In December 1982, the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America was given Big Munson Island from Homer Formby. Big Munson is an untouched, uninhabited island over in size, located off Big Pine Key in the lower Keys. It is now used for the Out Island Program, and as a part of the Key Adventure Program. In 1984 the new Scuba pools were dedicated, and in 1987, more land was purchased for future expansion.\n\nSince that original gift, there have been several other grants and purchases which have allowed the base to grow. In 1991, the hurricane proof Scuba dorms were completed. John W and Tommie M Thomas made a gift of $70,000 to Sea Base for new staff and conference housing, the Thomas Building that was dedicated on May 15, 1992. A new interfaith chapel was dedicated in 1993. In 1994 the galley was remodeled again, and was subsequently renamed the Donnell Center, after John Donnell, Sr. Also in 1994 the first Corinthian 45 dive boat, the BSA Tarpon joined the fleet. With generosity from Union Pacific CEO Drew Lewis, a new administration building, dedicated to William L Adams, opened May 3, 1995. After a donation by Frank Heckrodt in 1998, a second Corinthian 45, the BSA Scoutmaster was purchased. In 2001 a new maintenance shop was finished. Sea Base was not done growing; a new facility was in the works. As a result of a very generous $7 million donation from the Brinton Trust, The Brinton Environmental Center was dedicated on May 5, 2001, and officially opened its doors on June 1, 2001. The center is named after J. Porter Brinton, the project's benefactor. The Brinton Center is located at mile marker 23 and it became the base of operations for Scouts going to Big Munson Island. Sea Base was struck with tragedy, when on March 24, 2002 founder Sam Wampler died from a long illness.\n\nMany of the Toll Gate Inn's original buildings are still a part of Sea Base. The motel is now called the Annex and houses seasonal staff. The bar and restaurant is now the galley, and the gas station is now used as the commissary.\n\nThe Sea Base Fleet includes 16 Dusky drive boats, a Dusky fishing boat, two 18 ft (6 m) flats skiffs, four Newton Dive boats, two Corinthian dive boats and many charter sailboats.\n\nSea Base celebrated its 30th anniversary, commemorating the day on February 8, 2010, the same day of the 100th anniversary of the Boy Scouts of America. In front of the Ship’s Store, a Lignum vitae tree was planted by local Troop 914, as a commemoration of the occasion with many local dignitaries in attendance.\n\nSea Base offers the following week-long programs:\n\nOther programs include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59057440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59057440", "title": "Hainan International Film Festival", "text": "Hainan International Film Festival\n\nThe Hainan International Film Festival () is an upcoming film festival to be held in Sanya, Hainan, China. The inaugural festival will be held from December 9 to 16, and will include forums, ceremonies, and competitions. Actor Jackie Chan is the intended promotional ambassador.\n\n (English)\n"}
{"id": "32940026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32940026", "title": "I1 Super Series", "text": "I1 Super Series\n\ni1 Super Series (also known as Indian Racing League) was a proposed single-make, single-seater sports car racing series. The inaugural series was planned for 2012 but was subsequently delayed until the 2013 season. The races would have been held at FIA approved motorsport circuits around Asia. \n\nOrganized by Machdar Motorsports Private Limited, the series was seeking sanction by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) and the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI).\nAll teams would have raced with the Radical Sportscars SR3 roadster.\n\nThe i1 Super Series would have consisted of ten races at five circuits. Nine teams representing different Indian cities would have competed in the inaugural season to be held in 2013. Each team would be represented by two drivers, at least one of whom would have been a certified Indian driver. Teams would have competed for a USD $1,000,000 prize.\n\nTeams would enter the i1 Super Series by way of a franchise, held in the name of the city that they represent. Each franchise would entitle a team to enter three drivers into the championship. Seven franchises were established, with two yet to be set up in Goa and Ahmedabad.\n\nThe i1 Super Series confirmed a driver roster during the series launch at Yas Marina in December 2011, though no drivers were assigned to individual teams. Instead, drivers were placed into a pool, with teams selecting their drivers ahead of each round in the championship.\n\nSubsequent delays to a 2012 season to 2013 would have required a new roster.\n\nSports broadcaster Ten Sports was named as the official broadcast partner of the i1 Super Series, and would have broadcast live coverage of all the races.\n\n"}
{"id": "20853840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20853840", "title": "International Ettore Pozzoli Piano Competition", "text": "International Ettore Pozzoli Piano Competition\n\nThe International Ettore Pozzoli Piano Competition, for tradition and amount of prize, is one of the oldest and most prestigious piano competitions in the world, taking place in Seregno, Italy since 1959 and held every 2 years.\n\nThe contest was founded by Gina Gambini, widow of the Italian pianist, Maestro Ettore Pozzoli, wishing to honour the memory of her husband by giving musicians from all over the world an opportunity to show their artistic skills. \nUp to now, more than 1.500 pianists coming from all over the world have participated in the 25 editions of the competition that has taken place in the city in northern Italy. In 1959, the first pianist to win the International Ettore Pozzoli Piano Competition was Maestro Maurizio Pollini, now considered one of the major musicians in the world. \nThe last edition (XXVI°) took place in September 2009, celebrating the 50th year of the Competition foundation and was won by the young American pianist, Maestro Christopher Falzone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57751611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57751611", "title": "Jack Knife Fire", "text": "Jack Knife Fire\n\nThe Jack Knife Fire was a wildfire five miles north of Kent, Oregon in the United States. The fire was started by lightning on June 20, 2018, around 3:00 pm, just west of the John Day River. The fire burned . \n\nThe Jack Knife fire was started on June 20, 2018, by a lightning strike, along the John Day River, five miles north of Kent, Oregon. The fire was one of 70 wildfires started in Oregon due to lightning strikes over a two-day period. By June 23, the fire had spread to , moving along the river and north to Wilson Point and south to Adobe Point. \n\nBy June 26, the fire had grown to as the result of hot and dry weather. It was contained on July 6.\n"}
{"id": "3936917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3936917", "title": "John Locke Lectures", "text": "John Locke Lectures\n\nThe John Locke Lectures are a series of annual lectures in philosophy given at the University of Oxford. They are one of the world's most prestigious academic lecture series, comparable to the Gifford Lectures given in Scottish universities. They were established in 1950 by the bequest of Henry Wilde.\n\nThe first lecture series was offered to Ludwig Wittgenstein, who eventually declined. According to his biographers, he felt uncomfortable giving formal lectures where the audience would not be asking or answering questions.\n\nThe lectures began as an uncertain biannual series, with the first lecturer from 1950–1951, and missing the second slot from 1952-1953. Between 1969 and 2001, the lectures became gradually more frequent. Since 2001, the lecture notes have been made available electronically.\n"}
{"id": "50230715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50230715", "title": "List of actors who have played Jesus", "text": "List of actors who have played Jesus\n\nThis is a list of actors who have played Jesus.\n<br>\nMatt Ranillo III in the Film\ndirected by Ben Yalung \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1465190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465190", "title": "List of military disasters", "text": "List of military disasters\n\nIn this list a military disaster is the unexpected and sound defeat of one side in a battle or war, sometimes changing the course of history.\n\nMilitary disasters in this list can range from a strong army losing a major battle against a clearly inferior force, to an army being surprised and defeated by a clearly superior force, to a seemingly evenly matched conflict with an extremely one sided result. A military disaster could be due to bad planning, bad execution, bad weather, general lack of skill or ability, the failure of a new piece of military technology, a major blunder, a brilliant move on the part of the enemy, or simply the unexpected presence of an overwhelming enemy force.\n\nOne definition of military disaster describes the presence of two or three factors: \nAccording to this definition, two particular characteristics are not necessary for an event to be classified as a military disaster:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190173", "title": "List of years in literature", "text": "List of years in literature\n\nThis page gives a chronological list of years in literature (descending order), with notable publications listed with their respective years and a small selection of notable events. The time covered in individual years covers Renaissance, Baroque and Modern literature, while Medieval literature is resolved by century.\n\nNote: List of years in poetry exists specifically for poetry.\n\nSee Table of years in literature for an overview of all \"year in literature\" pages.\n\nSeveral attempts have been made to create a list of world literature. Among these are the great books project including the book series Great Books of the Western World, now containing 60 volumes. In 1998 Modern Library, an American publishing company, polled its editorial board to find the best 100 novels of the 20th century: Modern Library 100 Best Novels. These attempts have been criticized for their anglophone bias and disregard of other literary traditions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54034129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54034129", "title": "London Film Awards", "text": "London Film Awards\n\nThe London Film Awards is an annual awards ceremony started in 2012, recognising the work of independent film and brightest contemporary filmmakers/ screenwriters around the world. The festival honours films and screenplays from over 70 countries around the world, the London Film Awards features over 20 competition categories including Feature Films, Short Films, Documentaries, Student Films, Animation, Television Advertisements, Music Videos, and a screenwriting competition.\n\nThe Grand Prize Winners of each official competition category, as determined by an Official Jury, receive the Gold Lion Award. Additionally, the London Film Awards offers various Special Achievement Awards for 'standout' productions.\n\nGrand Jury Prize - The Activists: War, Peace, and Politics in the Streets directed by Melody Shemtov\n\nSpecial Jury Prize - Cotton Wool directed by Nicholas Connor\n\nBest Experimental Film - Sirocco: Prophecy of Wind directed by John Taschner\n\nBest Animated Film - Ghost Beats directed by Brent Barson\n\nBest Screenplay - An Old Man of the Hills, and the Schoolmaster's Story directed by Harry Pearson\n\nBest British Film - Our Little Haven directed by Ben Rider\n\n"}
{"id": "21673563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21673563", "title": "Mecklenburg State Theatre", "text": "Mecklenburg State Theatre\n\nThe Mecklenburg State Theatre () is the principal theatre of Schwerin in Germany. Its main theatre (or \"Grosses Haus\") seats 650 people and is used for the performance of plays, opera, musical theatre and ballet. Designed by Georg Daniel, it was built between 1883 and 1886 after the previous theatre had been destroyed by fire in 1882. The theatre was inaugurated on 3 October 1886 with a performance of Gluck's \"Iphigénie en Aulide\" with Marie Wittich in the title role. The complex also includes the State Museum in Schwerin (\"Staatliche Museum Schwerin\") and a 240-seat concert hall, now used for performances of chamber works. All theatres were closed for the Autumn season of 1944, with the staff drafted wherever possible. By German WW2 standards wartime casualties and destruction by bombing in Schwerin were small, in spite of nightly RAF raids and the droning of massive bomber pulks as silver specks on the sky during the day on their way to Berlin. Americans were the first to enter the town in the spring of 1945, handing it over to the British until the Russians arrived. These ordered the immediate reopening of the theatre, taking great interest in light operas and operettas as an art they very much appreciated, but until then out of their reach in most parts of Stalin's Soviet Union. Not familiar with Central European culture, one saw their well-fed ladies wearing night gowns during the invariably full houses as a substitute for an evening dress. In the immediate years to follow, there was a gradual exodus of key staff to the West, where few found equivalent employment. The ensuing vacancies provided new chances for many musicians, who were prepared to stay in East Germany to gain important positions there in their later career.\n\n"}
{"id": "1029281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029281", "title": "Monochrom", "text": "Monochrom\n\nmonochrom is an international art-technology-philosophy group, publishing house and film production company. monochrom was founded in 1993, and defines itself as \"an unpeculiar mixture of proto-aesthetic fringe work, pop attitude, subcultural science and political activism\". Its main office is located at Museumsquartier/Vienna (at 'QDK').\n\nThe group's members are: Johannes Grenzfurthner, Evelyn Fürlinger, Harald Homolka-List, Anika Kronberger, Franz Ablinger, Frank Apunkt Schneider, Daniel Fabry, Günther Friesinger and Roland Gratzer.\n\nThe group is known for working with different media and entertainment formats, although many projects are performative and have a strong focus on a critical and educational narrative. Johannes Grenzfurthner calls this \"looking for the best weapon of mass distribution of an idea\". monochrom is openly left-wing and tries to encourage public debate, sometimes using subversive affirmation or \"over-affirmation\" as a tactic. The group popularized the concept of \"context hacking\".\n\nOn the occasion of monochrom's 20th birthday in 2013, several Austrian high-profile media outlets paid tribute to the group's pioneering contributions within the field of contemporary art and discourse.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Johannes Grenzfurthner was an active member of several BBS message boards. He used his online connections to create a zine or alternative magazine that dealt with art, technology and subversive cultures, and was influenced by US magazines like \"Mondo 2000\".\nGrenzfurthner's motivation was to react to the emerging conservativism in cyber-cultures of the early 1990s, and to combine his political background in the Austrian punk and antifa movement with discussion of new technologies and the cultures they create. Franz Ablinger joined Grenzfurthner and they became the publication's core team.<br>The first issue was released in 1993. Over the years the publication featured many interviews and essays, for example by Bruce Sterling, HR Giger, Richard Kadrey, Arthur Kroker, Negativland, Kathy Acker, Michael Marrak, DJ Spooky, Geert Lovink, Lars Gustafsson, Tony Serra, Friedrich Kittler, Jörg Buttgereit, Eric Drexler, Terry Pratchett, Jack Sargeant and Bob Black, in its specific experimental layout style.\n\nIn 1995 the group decided to cover new artistic practices and started experimenting with different media: performances, computer games, robots, puppet theater, musical, short films, pranks, conferences, online activism.\n\nIn 1995 we decided that we didn't want to constrain ourselves to just one media format (the \"fanzine\"). We knew that we wanted to create statements, create viral information. So a quest for the best \"Weapon of Mass Distribution\" started, a search for the best transportation mode for a certain politics of philosophical ideas. This was the Cambrian Explosion of monochrom. We wanted to experiment, try stuff, find new forms of telling our stories. But, to be clear, it was (and still is) not about keeping the pace, of staying up-to-date, or (even worse) staying \"fresh\". The emergence of new media (and therefore artistic) formats is certainly interesting. But etching information into copper plates is just as exciting. We think that the perpetual return of 'the new', to cite Walter Benjamin, is nothing to write home about - except perhaps for the slave-drivers in the fashion industry. We've never been interested in the new just in itself, but in the accidental occurrence. In the moment where things don't tally, where productive confusion arises.\n\nAll the other core team members joined between 1995 and 2006.\n\nGrenzfurthner is the group's artistic director. He defines monochrom's artistic and activist approach as 'Context hacking' or 'Urban Hacking'.\n\nThe group monochrom refers to its working method as »Context Hacking,« thus referencing the hacker culture, which propagates a creative and emancipatory approach to the technologies of the digital age, and in this way turns against the continuation into the digital age of a centuries-old technological enslavement perpetrated through knowledge and hierarchies of experts. [...] Context hacking transfers the hackers' objectives and methods to the network of social relationships in which artistic production occurs, and upon which it is dependent. [...] One of context hackers' central ambitions is to bring the factions of counterculture, which have veered off along widely diverging trajectories, back together again.\n\nFrom its very foundation, the group defined itself as a \"movement\", \"culture\" (referring to Iain M. Banks's sci-fi series) and \"open field of experimentation\". monochrom supported and supports various artists, activists, researchers and communities with an online publishing platform, a print publishing service (\"edition mono\"), and organizes in-person meetings, screenings, radio shows, debate circles, conferences, online platforms. It is fundamental for the group's core members to combine artistic and educational endeavors with community work (cf. social practice).\n\nSome collaborations have been rather short-lived (for example the publication of a 1993 fringe science paper by Jakob Segal, projects with the Billboard Liberation Front and Ubermorgen or the administration of Dorkbot Vienna), some have been going for many years and decades (for example with Michael Marrak, Cory Doctorow, Jon Lebkowsky, Fritz Ostermayer, V. Vale, eSeL, Scott Beale/Laughing Squid, Emmanuel Goldstein, Jason Scott, Michael Zeltner, Anouk Wipprecht, VSL Lindabrunn).\n\nmonochrom is running the DIY project \"Hackbus\" in cooperation with David \"Daddy D\" Dempsey (of FM4) and supports initiatives like the \"Radius Festival\", \"Play:Vienna\", the \"Buckminster Fuller Institute Austria\", \"RE/Search\", the \"Semantic Web Company\" and the Vienna hackerspace \"Metalab\".\n\nJohannes Grenzfurthner sees monochrom as a community and social incubator of critical and subversive thinkers. An example is Bre Pettis of MakerBot Industries, who got inspired to create 3d printers during his art residency with monochrom in 2007. Pettis wanted to create a robot that could print shot glasses for monochrom's cocktail-robot event Roboexotica and did research about the RepRap project at Metalab. Shot glasses remained a theme throughout the history of MakerBot.\n\nmonochrom offers a collaborative art residency in Vienna. Since 2003 the group has invited and created projects with artists, researchers and activists like Suhrkamp's Johannes Ullmaier, pop theorist Stefan Tiron, performance artist Angela Dorrer, DIY blogger Bre Pettis, photographer and activist Audrey Penven, digital artist Eddie Codel, sex work activist Maggie Mayhem, glitch artist Phil Stearns, illustrator Josh Ellingson, DIY artist Ryan Finnigan, digital artist Jane Tingley, digital rights activist Jacob Appelbaum, sex tech expert Kyle Machulis, hacker Nick Farr, filmmakers Sophia Cacciola and Michael J. Epstein, and others.<br>All former resident artists are considered \"ambassadors\".\n\nSince 2007, monochrom is the European correspondent for Boing Boing Video.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42484138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42484138", "title": "Murder of Marcia King", "text": "Murder of Marcia King\n\nMarcia Lenore Sossoman King ( – ) was a previously unidentified murder victim discovered in 1981 in Miami County, Ohio, near the city of Troy. During the years that her identity was unknown, she was nicknamed \"Buckskin Girl,\" after the tasseled buckskin jacket that she had been wearing at the time of her death. King may have been murdered by a serial killer who had killed many sex workers or dancers in the area, although this specific case had no indication of sexual activity.\n\nNearly 37 years after her body was found, the Miami County Sheriff Department formally identified \"Buckskin Girl\" as Marcia King of Arkansas. She was 21 at the time of her death.\n\nKing's body was found on April 24, 1981, in a ditch along Greenlee Road in Newton Township, west of Troy, Ohio, after police responded to a call stating that a woman's body had been found along a road. A passerby had first noticed the victim's poncho and soon after discovered the victim's body. The woman had been placed along the road in a fetal position on her right side without shoes or socks. The victim had suffered trauma to the head and neck, was strangled and had a lacerated liver.\n\nAuthorities believed that she had been killed elsewhere and left on the road after her death. They concluded this because her bare feet were clean, showing no indication of walking on dirt, and because Interstate 75 is just away, making it a convenient and discreet drop-off spot. It had been speculated that she may have been a teenage runaway or a possible victim of a serial killer who had murdered multiple sex workers in the region. However, the scene showed no signs of sexual assault, rape or other sexual activity, indicating that she had not been a sex worker. Because of the absence of footwear, some believe she may have been murdered by an abusive significant other. A retired investigator stated that the victim was not likely from the area where she was found.\n\nThe young woman's naturally reddish-brown hair was braided into pigtails on both sides of her head. Blue rubber bands had been used to hold the braids in place. Her eyes were a \"light brown\" and she had many freckles across her face. Her nose was described to be \"very pointed\" as well. Her personal hygiene was described to be well maintained, and all of her teeth, including the wisdom teeth, were in good condition and had no evidence of fillings or other dental work, except for a porcelain crown on her upper-right incisor. The victim had a ruddy complexion, indicating she spent a lot of time outdoors. She was between and tall and weighed . Several scars were also found on the body, including a vertical scar under the chin, on one wrist, the arms and the ankle. Her bra size was 32D.\n\nShe wore Wrangler jeans, a patterned brown and orange turtleneck pullover sweater, a white bra, as well as a deerskin poncho that appeared to have been handmade with purple lining. She wore no shoes or socks.\n\nThe body was autopsied on the afternoon that it was discovered. The coroner officially ruled her death as being the result of strangulation. She was nicknamed \"Buckskin Girl,\" after the tasseled buckskin jacket that she had been wearing at the time of her death. Early efforts to identify the Buckskin Girl involved the creation of a sketch of the face that would be published in local newspapers and television networks on April 28, 1981. About two hundred leads were followed as a result of the media attention, yet none resulted in any solution. She was eventually buried, but her clothing remained in storage at the local police department.\n\nBecause of the short time the victim had been deceased, it was possible to obtain her fingerprints. Her dental information and DNA were also taken. In 2008, the victim was entered into the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System where her fingerprint, dental and DNA information were made available for law enforcement. 226 missing women and girls had been ruled out as possible identities of the victim Some believed that she had been a runaway teenager or a transient wanderer, although her excellent personal hygiene suggested that she had access to hygiene products not too long before her death. Since her body was located near a town road instead of a highway, the probability of her being a \"wanderer\" for a significant amount of time was initially thought to be negligible. Authorities stated that the likely reason why she has remained unidentified for so long was due to her dying far from where she originated, also stating she had not spent a long period of time in Ohio.\n\nIn 2016, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children released a forensic facial reconstruction of the victim and added her case to their website, depicting her with and without her braided hairstyle. Later that year, the Miami County Police Department approved forensic palynology tests on the victim's clothing, which suggested that she had spent time in the Northeastern part of the United States, as well as in the Western part of the country, or northern Mexico. Soot particles were also found on some of her clothing, which suggested she had been in a populous region, most likely near vehicles. Isotope testing showed she had spent a total of around four months in areas such as Fort Worth, Texas and southern Oklahoma, spending two months there on two separate occasions. In July 2018 the Miami County Police Department said King had been seen in Louisville, Kentucky, 14 days before her death.\n\nThe match between King and the unidentified victim was confirmed on April 9, 2018 through DNA analysis performed by the DNA Doe Project and Full Genomes Corporation. She had not officially been reported missing, although her family continued to search for her. King's mother resided at the same residence and kept the same phone number in case her daughter would ever contact her.\n\nShe will remain buried at the Riverside Cemetery, but the headstone reading \"Jane Doe\" was replaced to bear her name. On July 20, 2018, a memorial service was held at a local chapel and her new headstone was released.\n\nMarcia's father died on January 5, 2018. Two of her brothers, Danny King and James Sossoman are also deceased.\n\nSome investigators speculate that King was the first of many victims killed by an unidentified serial killer who perpetrated his murders in the 1980s and 1990s, continuing until 2004, in Ohio. Such a serial killer was suspected to have killed approximately seven to ten other women, presumed prostitutes and exotic dancers, in Ohio. In 1991, a press conference preceded the creation of a task force which attempted to connect various murders in Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Illinois. These cases were originally connected by a reporter who discovered similarities between unsolved murders in the area.\n\nOn an episode of \"Unsolved Mysteries,\" the case was briefly detailed along with several other cases connected to the unidentified serial killer. The program connected this case with the murders of Shirley Dee Taylor, Anna Marie Patterson, Hebron Jane Doe (identified in 2017 as Patrice Corley) and other murder cases. All of the victims had been beaten or strangled and had some clothing or jewelry missing. She wore no jewelry, had her footwear removed, and died in a similar manner to that of the other victims.\n\nThere are, however, several indications disputing this theory. The victim was missing shoes when she was found, but there was no indication that she had participated in any sexual activity prior to death. Furthermore, she was fairly well-groomed, unlike many of the other victims. Some, like Corley had participated in sexual activity before their deaths, a factor which indicated that they were sex workers. Also diverging from the theory, Patterson's body had been wrapped in a sleeping bag and was likely stored in a refrigerated area for \"nearly a month\" before it was located on the side of a highway.\n\nIt is thought that the women who may have been victims of the serial killer could have met with a man at a truck stop while working as prostitutes. In the case of Anna Marie Patterson, there was a suspect, identified over a CB radio as \"Dr. No\", believed to be between the ages of 25 and 40. Patterson's husband, who was involved with her work as a sex worker, stated that she was uncomfortable accepting the man's requests, as other local prostitutes, some speaking over the radio, had expressed that they were suspicious of the man and did not wish to meet with him. Police have suspected that this person may have been her killer, and that he may also have been involved in the death of King.\n\nEarlier, it was presumed that she had been a victim of a different span of killings, known as the Redhead murders, but this theory has been ruled out. Early speculation also made a connection to the murder of a 27-year-old woman in February 1981, yet police never made an official link between these two murders.\n\nReconstructions of King based on morgue photographs, created in effort to identify her.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "156751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156751", "title": "Murder of Samantha Runnion", "text": "Murder of Samantha Runnion\n\nSamantha Bree Runnion (July 26, 1996 – July 15, 2002) was a five-year-old girl abducted from outside her home in Stanton, California, and murdered.\n\nOn July 15, 2002, Runnion was playing with a friend in her family's front yard when a man approached them asking for help in finding a lost dog. After a short conversation he grabbed Samantha, forced her into his car, and drove away. A day later, her nude body was found fifty miles south in Cleveland National Forest. She had been sexually assaulted and strangled. Police said the killer was \"extremely sloppy\" and had left behind \"mountains of physical evidence connecting him to the crime\".\n\nAlejandro Avila, of Lake Elsinore, California, was arrested three days after the abduction. His DNA was found on Samantha's body, and her DNA was found in his car. Avila had previously visited his girlfriend in the condominium complex where Samantha lived, and had been previously acquitted of molesting his girlfriend's daughter and niece. \nPolice found child pornography on Avila's laptop computer, and he had booked a motel room on the day of the murder, where it was believed that Samantha was killed. Avila's public defender argued during the trial that it was impossible for him to have kidnapped the girl, abused, murdered, and then dumped her body 50 miles away in the course of one day as the prosecution believed.\n\nOn May 16, 2005, a jury returned a verdict of death. He is incarcerated at San Quentin State Prison on death row.\n\n"}
{"id": "2978909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978909", "title": "Museums and the Web", "text": "Museums and the Web\n\nThe annual Museums and the Web conference is the leading international conference in the field of museums and their websites. It has been organized by Archives & Museum Informatics each Spring in North America since 1997.\n\nThe conference considers the interdisciplinary museological field of how museums and their users can benefit from the use of the World Wide Web. All papers from the conferences are freely available on the web. Selected papers are published in a printed proceedings each year. The first conference in 1997 attracted around 400 delegates from around the world and subsequent conferences have attracted even more.\n\n\"Museums and the Web\" includes the GLAMi awards (The Galleries, Libraries, Archives, and Museums Innovation awards) which recognizes the best GLAM work in the sector. Projects are nominated by GLAM professionals from around the world and reviewed by a committee of peers. The conference previously included annual \"Best of the Web awards\" for museum-related websites in a number of different categories, as well as an overall winner.\n\nThe following events have been held or are planned:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22367437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22367437", "title": "O. Henry Pun-Off", "text": "O. Henry Pun-Off\n\nThe O. Henry Pun-Off is a yearly spoken word competition that takes place every May at the O. Henry Museum in Austin, Texas.\n\nStarted in 1978, the Pun-Off gathers fans of wordplay to celebrate the pun, which English poet and literary critic John Dryden called \"the lowest and most groveling kind of wit.\" The event has been organized and run since 1990 by Austinite Gary Hallock. A support group of former and current contestants was formed in 1990 to formalize the unwritten rules of the competition(s) and provide guidance and support for future events. Under the umbrella title of \"Punsters United Nearly Yearly\" (a.k.a. PUNY) this collection of loosely knit wits continues to be the public face of the event through its website, Yahoo Group and Facebook page. Gary Hallock retired as producer in 2015. He was replaced by emcee and 2006 Punslinger World Champion, David Gugenheim. \n\nParticipants in the annual event compete in one or both of the two areas of punning prowess: \"Punniest of Show\", which features individuals performing a 90-second prepared piece filled with puns; and \"PunSlingers\", which pits individual punsters in head-to-head bouts of spontaneous punning on a randomly selected variation of traditional topic themes.\n\nFrom its inception, the O. Henry Pun-Off used a four-person panel of judges that offers scores of 1–10 based on performance, originality, and wit. The four scores were added together for a combined score of 4–40 for each participant. (Scores lower than 1 are raised to 1, and scores higher than 10 are lowered to 10.) The highest-scoring punster wins each event, with ties being decided by audience applause. Beginning in 2009, however, the judge panel was expanded to six people, with the highest and lowest scores discarded and the remaining four scores added together to form each participant's combined score of 4–40. This change was enacted to prevent any one judge from having the ability to disqualify a punster by giving a much lower score than the other judges.\n\nA separate award is also given yearly for the \"Most Viable Punster\", a title awarded by votes from each year's participants and given in honor of late punster George McClughan.\n\nThe O. Henry Pun-Off was inspired by the writings of William Sydney Porter who, while living in Austin, Texas, in the late 1800s, began using the pen name O. Henry. By the time of his death in 1910, O. Henry had published over 300 short stories including \"The Ransom of Red Chief\" and the Christmas classic \"Gift of the Magi\". His voracious vocabulary and love of language endeared him to a broad audience, but it was his trademark twisted endings that always kept curious readers coming back for more. Reading an O. Henry story is a participatory experience. Today, the Pun-Off keeps his name alive by offering lovers of wordplay and wit a platform for their literary shenanigans in front of an admiring, and sometimes mocking, audience.\n\nFor the purpose of competition and judging, a two-fold definition of a proper pun has been adopted by the O. Henry Pun-Off.\n\nThe first and most common form presented is wordplay using homonyms that deliberately exploits ambiguity between similar-sounding words for humorous or rhetorical effect.\n\nThe second accepted type of pun is a lesser used form of euphemism or double entendre, where an alternate meaning is suggested for a word for comedic effect.\n\nEach entered contestant will be allowed to present a pun-filled performance on stage. Puns may be presented in any format (e.g., visual, musical, stand-up routine, etc.), and will be scored on a scale of 1-10 by a panel of six judges. A contestant's final score will be determined by dropping the highest and lowest scores and adding the remaining four scores together for a final total of 4–40. Contestants will be judged on content, originality, and general effect of the presentation, including judges' interpretation of audience response.\n\nContestants may use notes or scripts, but judges may take this into consideration when determining their score.\n\nEach routine will be timed by an independent timekeeper, who will allow for audience response and other technical difficulties when determining if 90 seconds have passed. At the end of 90 seconds the timekeeper will sound a signal, indicating that the contestant's 90 seconds have expired and a 30-second grace period will begin. All pun pieces over 120 seconds are automatically disqualified.\n\nThe contestant with the highest total score wins the event. In the case of a tie score, the tied contestants are called back on stage to present part of their routine again. After all tied contestants finish, audience response will be taken. The contestant who receives the best audience reaction, as determined by the judging panel and the Master of Ceremonies, wins the event.\n\nThis competition consists of no more than four rounds of single-elimination heats. For each preliminary round, two contestants at a time will be called onto the stage (a pairing), at which point they will be given a topic drawn at random. The contestant with the lowest entry number will have five seconds to deliver a pun on this topic. The other contestant then has five seconds to respond with another pun on the same topic.\n\nPuns may not be made on the same word within the same context during a topic. A contestant who violates this rule will receive a \"strike\" and will be given another five seconds to come up with a valid pun that has not been used during the pairing. Punsters who deliver puns that are determined invalid by the judging panel (i.e. non-puns) are also given a strike and another five seconds to conjure a valid pun.\n\nContestants continue trading puns until a contestant is eliminated, either by exceeding the allotted five seconds or after three strikes. The survivor of each pairing advances to the next round.\n\n"}
{"id": "23512030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23512030", "title": "One &amp; Other", "text": "One &amp; Other\n\nOne & Other was a public art project by Antony Gormley, in which 2,400 members of the public occupied the usually vacant fourth plinth in Trafalgar Square, London, for an hour each for 100 days. The project began at 9 am on Monday 6 July 2009, and ran until 14 October. The first person to officially occupy the plinth was Rachel Wardell from Lincolnshire. A documentary art book by Gormley, entitled \"One and Other\", was published in the UK by Jonathan Cape on 14 October 2010. The Wellcome Trust has posted online at its website its series of oral-history interviews of the 2400 plinthers.\n\nThe project was opened by the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson. Minutes before the official launch Stuart Holmes, an anti-smoking protester, managed to clamber onto the plinth and displayed a banner calling for a ban on tobacco. Gormley urged him to do the \"gentlemanly thing\" and give up his place to the first official \"plinther\", Rachel Wardell. He did so and descended in the cherry picker used to carry participants to and from the plinth.\n\nMembers of the public could apply for an hour on the plinth via the project's website. Gormley himself applied but didn't get a place. Reviewing the event afterwards, the Guardian's top ten \"plinthers\" were:\n\nAsked for his favourite, in 2015, Gormley stated that choosing was unfair but, when pushed, selected an agoraphobic woman, who sat in the middle of the plinth, curled up into a ball. He also said he had liked a woman from the first day of the event, who was accompanied by a Cuban mariachi band that performed beneath the plinth, and people who used the opportunity to commemorate war dead.\n\nOn 14 July at 8.00 pm, poet R. N. Taber read a selection of his poems, while photographer Alex Boyd collaborated with Scottish Makar (Poet Laureate) Edwin Morgan for his time on the plinth. On 12 August at 1 am, a naked plinther was asked to cover up by the police.\n\nStreamed live online by SkyArts, the exhibit quickly developed a cadre of regular Twitter followers who provided a running commentary of events on the plinth.\n\n"}
{"id": "24261150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24261150", "title": "Pain in animals", "text": "Pain in animals\n\nIn humans, pain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli. Whether animals apart from humans also experience pain is often contentious despite being scientifically verifiable. The standard measure of pain in humans is how a person reports that pain, (for example, on a pain scale). \"Pain\" is defined by the International Association for the Study of Pain as \"an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage, or described in terms of such damage.\" Only the person experiencing the pain can know the pain's quality and intensity, and the degree of suffering. However, for non-human animals, it is harder, if even possible, to know whether an emotional experience has occurred. Therefore, this concept is often excluded in definitions of pain in animals, such as that provided by Zimmerman: \"an aversive sensory experience caused by actual or potential injury that elicits protective motor and vegetative reactions, results in learned avoidance and may modify species-specific behaviour, including social behaviour.\" Non-human animals cannot report their feelings to language-using humans in the same manner as human communication, but observation of their behaviour provides a reasonable indication as to the extent of their pain. Just as with doctors and medics who sometimes share no common language with their patients, the indicators of pain can still be understood.\n\nAccording to the U.S. National Research Council Committee on Recognition and Alleviation of Pain in Laboratory Animals, pain is experienced by many animal species, including mammals and possibly all vertebrates.\n\nAlthough there are numerous definitions of pain, almost all involve two key components. First, nociception is required. This is the ability to detect noxious stimuli which evoke a reflex response that rapidly moves the entire animal, or the affected part of its body, away from the source of the stimulus. The concept of nociception does not imply any adverse, subjective \"feeling\" – it is a reflex action. An example in humans would be the rapid withdrawal of a finger that has touched something hot – the withdrawal occurs before any sensation of pain is actually experienced.\n\nThe second component is the experience of \"pain\" itself, or suffering – the internal, emotional interpretation of the nociceptive experience. Again in humans, this is when the withdrawn finger begins to hurt, moments after the withdrawal. Pain is therefore a private, emotional experience. Pain cannot be directly measured in other animals, including other humans; responses to putatively painful stimuli can be measured, but not the experience itself. To address this problem when assessing the capacity of other species to experience pain, argument-by-analogy is used. This is based on the principle that if an animal responds to a stimulus in a similar way to ourselves, it is likely to have had an analogous experience.\n\nNociception usually involves the transmission of a signal along nerve fibers from the site of a noxious stimulus at the periphery to the spinal cord. Although this signal is also transmitted on to the brain, a reflex response, such as flinching or withdrawal of a limb, is produced by return signals originating in the spinal cord. Thus, both physiological and behavioral responses to nociception can be detected, and no reference need be made to a conscious experience of pain. Based such criteria nociception has been observed in all major animal taxa.\n\nNerve impulses from nociceptors may reach the brain, where information about the stimulus (e.g. quality, location, and intensity), and affect (unpleasantness) are registered. Though the brain activity involved has been studied, the brain processes underlying conscious awareness are not well understood.\n\nThe adaptive value of nociception is obvious; an organism detecting a noxious stimulus immediately withdraws the limb, appendage or entire body from the noxious stimulus and thereby avoids further (potential) injury. However, a characteristic of pain (in mammals at least) is that pain can result in hyperalgesia (a heightened sensitivity to noxious stimuli) and allodynia (a heightened sensitivity to non-noxious stimuli). When this heightened sensitisation occurs, the adaptive value is less clear. First, the pain arising from the heightened sensitisation can be disproportionate to the actual tissue damage caused. Second, the heightened sensitisation may also become chronic, persisting well beyond the tissues healing. This can mean that rather than the actual tissue damage causing pain, it is the pain due to the heightened sensitisation that becomes the concern. This means the sensitisation process is sometimes termed maladaptive. It is often suggested hyperalgesia and allodynia assist organisms to protect themselves during healing, but experimental evidence to support this has been lacking.\n\nIn 2014, the adaptive value of sensitisation due to injury was tested using the predatory interactions between longfin inshore squid (\"Doryteuthis pealeii\") and black sea bass (\"Centropristis striata\") which are natural predators of this squid. If injured squid are targeted by a bass, they began their defensive behaviours sooner (indicated by greater alert distances and longer flight initiation distances) than uninjured squid. If anaesthetic (1% ethanol and MgCl) is administered prior to the injury, this prevents the sensitisation and blocks the behavioural effect. The authors claim this study is the first experimental evidence to support the argument that nociceptive sensitisation is actually an adaptive response to injuries.\n\nTo assess the capacity of other species to consciously suffer pain we resort to argument-by-analogy. That is, if an animal responds to a stimulus the way a human does, it is likely to have had an analogous experience. If we stick a pin in a chimpanzee's finger and she rapidly withdraws her hand, we use argument-by-analogy and infer that like us, she felt pain. It might be argued that consistency requires us infer, also, that a cockroach experiences conscious pain when it writhes after being stuck with a pin. The usual counter-argument is that although the physiology of consciousness is not understood, it clearly involves complex brain processes not present in relatively simple organisms. Other analogies have been pointed out. For example, when given a choice of foods, rats and chickens with clinical symptoms of pain will consume more of an analgesic-containing food than animals not in pain. Additionally, the consumption of the analgesic carprofen in lame chickens was positively correlated to the severity of lameness, and consumption resulted in an improved gait. Such anthropomorphic arguments face the criticism that physical reactions indicating pain may be neither the cause nor result of conscious states, and the approach is subject to criticism of anthropomorphic interpretation. For example, a single-celled organism such as an amoeba may writhe after being exposed to noxious stimuli despite the absence of nociception.\n\nThe idea that animals might not experience pain or suffering as humans do traces back at least to the 17th-century French philosopher, René Descartes, who argued that animals lack consciousness. Researchers remained unsure into the 1980s as to whether animals experience pain, and veterinarians trained in the U.S. before 1989 were simply taught to ignore animal pain. In his interactions with scientists and other veterinarians, Bernard Rollin was regularly asked to \"prove\" that animals are conscious, and to provide \"scientifically acceptable\" grounds for claiming that they feel pain. Some authors say that the view that animals feel pain differently is now a minority view. Academic reviews of the topic are more equivocal, noting that, although it is likely that some animals have at least simple conscious thoughts and feelings, some authors continue to question how reliably animal mental states can be determined.\n\nThe ability to experience pain in an animal, or another human for that matter, cannot be determined directly but it may be inferred through analogous physiological and behavioral reactions. Although many animals share similar mechanisms of pain detection to those of humans, have similar areas of the brain involved in processing pain, and show similar pain behaviours, it is notoriously difficult to assess how animals actually experience pain.\n\nNociceptive nerves, which preferentially detect (potential) injury-causing stimuli, have been identified in a variety of animals, including invertebrates. The medicinal leech, \"Hirudo medicinalis,\" and sea slug are classic model systems for studying nociception. Many other vertebrate and invertebrate animals also show nociceptive reflex responses similar to our own.\n\nMany animals also exhibit more complex behavioural and physiological changes indicative of the ability to experience pain: they eat less food, their normal behaviour is disrupted, their social behaviour is suppressed, they may adopt unusual behaviour patterns, they may emit characteristic distress calls, experience respiratory and cardiovascular changes, as well as inflammation and release of stress hormones.\n\nSome criteria that may indicate the potential of another species to feel pain include:\n\nA typical human cutaneous nerve contains 83% C type trauma receptors (the type responsible for transmitting signals described by humans as excruciating pain); the same nerves in humans with congenital insensitivity to pain have only 24-28% C type receptors. The rainbow trout has about 5% C type fibres, while sharks and rays have 0%. Nevertheless, fish have been shown to have sensory neurons that are sensitive to damaging stimuli and are physiologically identical to human nociceptors. Behavioural and physiological responses to a painful event appear comparable to those seen in amphibians, birds, and mammals, and administration of an analgesic drug reduces these responses in fish.\n\nAnimal welfare advocates have raised concerns about the possible suffering of fish caused by angling. Some countries, e.g. Germany, have banned specific types of fishing, and the British RSPCA now formally prosecutes individuals who are cruel to fish.\n\nThough it has been argued that most invertebrates do not feel pain, there is some evidence that invertebrates, especially the decapod crustaceans (e.g. crabs and lobsters) and cephalopods (e.g. octopuses), exhibit behavioural and physiological reactions indicating they may have the capacity for this experience.\nNociceptors have been found in nematodes, annelids and molluscs. Most insects do not possess nociceptors, one known exception being the fruit fly. In vertebrates, endogenous opioids are neurochemicals that moderate pain by interacting with opiate receptors. Opioid peptides and opiate receptors occur naturally in nematodes, molluscs, insects and crustaceans. The presence of opioids in crustaceans has been interpreted as an indication that lobsters may be able to experience pain, although it has been claimed \"at present no certain conclusion can be drawn\".\n\nOne suggested reason for rejecting a pain experience in invertebrates is that invertebrate brains are too small. However, brain size does not necessarily equate to complexity of function. Moreover, weight for body-weight, the cephalopod brain is in the same size bracket as the vertebrate brain, smaller than that of birds and mammals, but as big as or bigger than most fish brains.\n\nSince September 2010, all cephalopods being used for scientific purposes in the EU are protected by EU Directive 2010/63/EU which states \"...there is scientific evidence of their [cephalopods] ability to experience pain, suffering, distress and lasting harm. In the UK, animal protection legislation means that cephalopods used for scientific purposes must be killed humanely, according to prescribed methods (known as \"Schedule 1 methods of euthanasia\") known to minimise suffering.\n\nVeterinary medicine uses, for actual or potential animal pain, the same analgesics and anesthetics as used in humans.\n\nDolorimetry (\"dolor\": Latin: pain, grief) is the measurement of the pain response in animals, including humans. It is practiced occasionally in medicine, as a diagnostic tool, and is regularly used in research into the basic science of pain, and in testing the efficacy of analgesics. Non-human animal pain measurement techniques include the paw pressure test, tail flick test, hot plate test and grimace scales.\n\nAnimals are kept in laboratories for a wide range of reasons, some of which may involve pain, suffering or distress, whilst others (e.g. many of those involved in breeding) will not. The extent to which animal testing causes pain and suffering in laboratory animals is the subject of much debate. Marian Stamp Dawkins defines \"suffering\" in laboratory animals as the experience of one of \"a wide range of extremely unpleasant subjective (mental) states.\" The U.S. National Research Council has published guidelines on the care and use of laboratory animals, as well as a report on recognizing and alleviating pain in vertebrates. The United States Department of Agriculture defines a \"painful procedure\" in an animal study as one that would \"reasonably be expected to cause more than slight or momentary pain or distress in a human being to which that procedure was applied.\" Some critics argue that, paradoxically, researchers raised in the era of increased awareness of animal welfare may be inclined to deny that animals are in pain simply because they do not want to see themselves as people who inflict it. PETA however argues that there is no doubt about animals in laboratories being inflicted with pain. In the UK, animal research likely to cause \"pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm\" is regulated by the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 and research with the potential to cause pain is regulated by the Animal Welfare Act of 1966 in the US.\n\nIn the U.S., researchers are not required to provide laboratory animals with pain relief if the administration of such drugs would interfere with their experiment. Laboratory animal veterinarian Larry Carbone writes, “Without question, present public policy allows humans to cause laboratory animals unalleviated pain. The AWA, the \"Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\", and current Public Health Service policy all allow for the conduct of what are often called “Category E” studies – experiments in which animals are expected to undergo significant pain or distress that will be left untreated because treatments for pain would be expected to interfere with the experiment.”\n\nEleven countries have national classification systems of pain and suffering experienced by animals used in research: Australia, Canada, Finland, Germany, The Republic of Ireland, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK. The US also has a mandated national scientific animal-use classification system, but it is markedly different from other countries in that it reports on whether pain-relieving drugs were required and/or used. The first severity scales were implemented in 1986 by Finland and the UK. The number of severity categories ranges between 3 (Sweden and Finland) and 9 (Australia). In the UK, research projects are classified as \"mild\", \"moderate\", and \"substantial\" in terms of the suffering the researchers conducting the study say they may cause; a fourth category of \"unclassified\" means the animal was anesthetized and killed without recovering consciousness. It should be remembered that in the UK system, many research projects (e.g. transgenic breeding, feeding distasteful food) will require a license under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986, but may cause little or no pain or suffering. In December 2001, 39 percent (1, 296) of project licenses in force were classified as \"mild\", 55 percent (1, 811) as \"moderate\", two percent (63) as \"substantial\", and 4 percent (139) as \"unclassified\". In 2009, of the project licenses issued, 35 percent (187) were classified as \"mild\", 61 percent (330) as \"moderate\", 2 percent (13) as \"severe\" and 2 percent (11) as unclassified.\n\nIn the US, the \"Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\" defines the parameters for animal testing regulations. It states, \"The ability to experience and respond to pain is widespread in the animal kingdom...Pain is a stressor and, if not relieved, can lead to unacceptable levels of stress and distress in animals. \" The \"Guide\" states that the ability to recognize the symptoms of pain in different species is essential for the people caring for and using animals. Accordingly, all issues of animal pain and distress, and their potential treatment with analgesia and anesthesia, are required regulatory issues for animal protocol approval.\n"}
{"id": "28323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28323", "title": "Samhain", "text": "Samhain\n\nSamhain (; ) is a Gaelic festival marking the end of the harvest season and the beginning of winter or the \"darker half\" of the year. Traditionally, it is celebrated from 31 October to 1 November, as the Celtic day began and ended at sunset. This is about halfway between the autumn equinox and the winter solstice. It is one of the four Gaelic seasonal festivals, along with Imbolc, Bealtaine and Lughnasadh. Historically, it was widely observed throughout Ireland, Scotland and the Isle of Man. Similar festivals are held at the same time of year in other Celtic lands; for example the Brythonic Calan Gaeaf (in Wales), Kalan Gwav (in Cornwall), and Kalan Goañv (in Brittany), both Celtic branches are roughly as old as each other.\n\nSamhain is believed to have Celtic pagan origins and there is evidence it has been an important date since ancient times. Some Neolithic passage tombs in Ireland are aligned with the sunrise around the time of Samhain. It is mentioned in some of the earliest Irish literature and many important events in Irish mythology happen or begin on Samhain. It was the time when cattle were brought back down from the summer pastures and when livestock were slaughtered for the winter. As at Bealtaine, special bonfires were lit. These were deemed to have protective and cleansing powers and there were rituals involving them. Like Bealtaine, Samhain was seen as a liminal time, when the boundary between this world and the Otherworld could more easily be crossed. This meant the \"Aos Sí\", the 'spirits' or 'fairies', could more easily come into our world. Most scholars see the \"Aos Sí\" as remnants of the pagan gods and nature spirits. At Samhain, it was believed that the \"Aos Sí\" needed to be propitiated to ensure that the people and their livestock survived the winter. Offerings of food and drink were left outside for them. The souls of the dead were also thought to revisit their homes seeking hospitality. Feasts were had, at which the souls of dead kin were beckoned to attend and a place set at the table for them. Mumming and guising were part of the festival, and involved people going door-to-door in costume (or in disguise), often reciting verses in exchange for food. The costumes may have been a way of imitating, and disguising oneself from, the \"Aos Sí\". Divination rituals and games were also a big part of the festival and often involved nuts and apples. In the late 19th century, Sir John Rhys and Sir James Frazer suggested that it was the \"Celtic New Year\", and this view has been repeated by some other scholars.\n\nIn the 9th century AD, the Western Christian church shifted the date of All Saints' Day to 1 November, while 2 November later became All Souls' Day. Over time, Samhain and All Saints'/All Souls' merged to create the modern Halloween. Historians have used the name 'Samhain' to refer to Gaelic 'Halloween' customs up until the 19th century.\n\nSince the later 20th century, Celtic neopagans and Wiccans have observed Samhain, or something based on it, as a religious holiday. Neopagans in the Southern Hemisphere often celebrate Samhain at the other end of the year (about 1 May).\n\nIn Modern Irish as well as Scottish Gaelic the name is . Older forms of the word include the Scottish Gaelic spellings and . In Manx Gaelic the name is . \n\nThese are also the names of November in each language, shortened from \"Mí na Samhna\" (Irish), \"Mì na Samhna\" (Scottish Gaelic) and \"Mee Houney\" (Manx), meaning \"month of Samhain\". The night of 31 October—Halloween—is \"Oíche Shamhna\" (Irish), \"Oidhche Shamhna\" (Scottish Gaelic) and \"Oie Houney\" (Manx), meaning \"Samhain night\". The day of 1 November, or the whole festival, may be called \"Lá Samhna\" (Irish), \"Là Samhna\" (Scottish Gaelic) and \"Laa Houney\" (Manx), meaning \"Samhain day\".\n\nThese names all come from the Old Irish \"Samain\" or \"Samuin\" , the name for the festival held on 1 November in medieval Ireland. This comes from Proto-Indo-European \"*semo-\" (\"summer\"). One suggestion is that the name means \"summer's end\", from \"sam\" (\"summer\") and \"fuin\" (\"end\"), but this may be a folk etymology. In 1907, Whitley Stokes suggested an etymology from Proto-Celtic \"*samani\" (\"assembly\"), and Joseph Vendryes suggested that it is unrelated to \"*semo-\" (\"summer\"), because the Celtic summer ended in August.\n\nThe Gaulish month name \"(pertaining to) Summer\" on the Coligny calendar is likely related to the word \"Samhain\". A festival of some kind may have been held during the 'three nights of \"Samonios\"' (Gaulish \"trinux[tion] samo[nii]\"). The Gaulish calendar seems to have split the year into two-halves: the first beginning with the month and the second beginning with the month , which is related to the word for winter, PIE \"*g'hei-men-\" (Latin \"hiems\", Latvian \"ziema\", Lithuanian \"žiema\", Slavic \"zima\", Greek \"kheimon\", Hittite \"gimmanza\"), cf. Old Irish \"gem-adaig\" ('winter's night'). \"Samonios\" may represent the beginning of the summer season and \"Giamonios\" (the seventh month) the beginning of the winter season. The lunations marking the middle of each half-year may also have been marked by festivals.\n\n\"Samain\" or \"Samuin\" was the name of the \"feis\" or festival marking the beginning of winter in Gaelic Ireland. It is attested in some of the earliest Old Irish literature, from the 10th century onward. It was one of four Gaelic seasonal festivals: Samhain (~1 November), Imbolc (~1 February), Bealtaine (~1 May) and Lughnasadh (~1 August). Samhain and Bealtaine, at the witherward side of the year from each other, are thought to have been the most important. Sir James George Frazer wrote in \"The Golden Bough: A Study in Magic and Religion\" that 1 May and 1 November are of little importance to European crop-growers, but of great importance to herdsmen. It is at the beginning of summer that cattle are driven to the upland summer pastures and the beginning of winter that they are led back. Thus, Frazer suggests that halving the year at 1 May and 1 November dates from a time when the Celts were mainly a pastoral people, dependent on their herds. \n\nSome Neolithic passage tombs in Ireland are aligned with the sunrise around the times of Samhain and Imbolc. These include the Mound of the Hostages (\"Dumha na nGiall\") at the Hill of Tara, and Cairn L at Slieve na Calliagh.\n\nIn medieval Ireland the festival marked the end of the season for trade and warfare and was a time for tribal gatherings. These gatherings are a popular setting for early Irish tales.\n\nIrish mythology was originally a spoken tradition, but much of it was eventually written down in the Middle Ages by Christian monks, who Christianized it to some extent. Nevertheless, these tales may shed some light on what Samhain meant and how it was marked in ancient Ireland.\n\nIrish mythology tells us that Samhain was one of the four seasonal festivals of the year, and the 10th-century tale \"Tochmarc Emire\" ('The Wooing of Emer') lists Samhain as the first of these four \"quarter days\". The tales say it was marked by great gatherings where they held meetings, feasted, drank alcohol, and held contests.\n\nAccording to Irish mythology, Samhain (like Bealtaine) was a time when the 'doorways' to the Otherworld opened, allowing supernatural beings and the souls of the dead to come into our world; but while Bealtaine was a summer festival for the living, Samhain \"was essentially a festival for the dead\". \"The Boyhood Deeds of Fionn\" says that the \"sídhe\" (fairy mounds or portals to the Otherworld) \"were always open at Samhain\". It tells us that the High King of Ireland hosted a great gathering at Tara each Samhain. Each year the fire-breather Aillen emerges from the Otherworld and burns down the palace of Tara after lulling everyone to sleep with his music. One Samhain, the young Fionn mac Cumhaill is able to stay awake and slays Aillen with a magical spear, for which he is made leader of the fianna. In a similar tale, one Samhain the Otherworld being Cúldubh comes out of the burial mound on Slievenamon and snatches a roast pig. Fionn kills Cúldubh with a spear throw as he re-enters the mound. Fionn's thumb is caught between the door and the post as it shuts, and he puts it in his mouth to ease the pain. As his thumb had been inside the Otherworld, Fionn is bestowed with great wisdom. This may refer to gaining knowledge from the ancestors. \"Acallam na Senórach\" ('Colloquy of the Elders') tells how three female werewolves emerge from the cave of Cruachan (an Otherworld portal) each Samhain and kill livestock. When Cas Corach plays his harp, they take on human form, and the fianna warrior Caílte then slays them with a spear.\n\nSome tales may suggest that offerings or sacrifices were made at Samhain. In the \"Lebor Gabála Érenn\" (or 'Book of Invasions'), each Samhain the people of Nemed had to give two-thirds of their children, their corn and their milk to the monstrous Fomorians. The Fomorians seem to represent the harmful or destructive powers of nature; personifications of chaos, darkness, death, blight and drought. This tribute paid by Nemed's people may represent a \"sacrifice offered at the beginning of winter, when the powers of darkness and blight are in the ascendant\". According to the later \"Dindsenchas\" and the \"Annals of the Four Masters\"—which were written by Christian monks—Samhain in ancient Ireland was associated with a god or idol called Crom Cruach. The texts claim that a first-born child would be sacrificed at the stone idol of Crom Cruach in Magh Slécht. They say that King Tigernmas, and three-fourths of his people, died while worshiping Crom Cruach there one Samhain. \n\nThe legendary kings Diarmait mac Cerbaill and Muirchertach mac Ercae each die a threefold death on Samhain, which involves wounding, burning and drowning, and of which they are forewarned. In the tale \"Togail Bruidne Dá Derga\" ('The Destruction of Dá Derga's Hostel'), king Conaire Mór also meets his death on Samhain after breaking his \"geasa\" (prohibitions or taboos). He is warned of his impending doom by three undead horsemen who are messengers of Donn, god of the dead. \"The Boyhood Deeds of Fionn\" tells how each Samhain the men of Ireland went to woo a beautiful maiden who lives in the fairy mound on Brí Eile (Croghan Hill). It says that each year someone would be killed \"to mark the occasion\", by persons unknown. Some academics suggest that these tales recall human sacrifice, and argue that several ancient Irish bog bodies (such as Old Croghan Man) appear to have been kings who were ritually killed, some of them around the time of Samhain.\n\nIn the \"Echtra Neraí\" ('The Adventure of Nera'), King Ailill of Connacht sets his retinue a test of bravery on Samhain night. He offers a prize to whoever can make it to a gallows and tie a band around a hanged man's ankle. Each challenger is thwarted by demons and runs back to the king's hall in fear. However, Nera succeeds, and the dead man then asks for a drink. Nera carries him on his back and they stop at three houses. They enter the third, where the dead man drinks and spits it on the householders, killing them. Returning, Nera sees a fairy host burning the king's hall and slaughtering those inside. He follows the host through a portal into the Otherworld. Nera learns that what he saw was only a vision of what will happen the next Samhain unless something is done. He is able to return to the hall and warns the king.\n\nThe tale \"Aided Chrimthainn maic Fidaig\" ('The Killing of Crimthann mac Fidaig') tells how Mongfind kills her brother, king Crimthann of Munster, so that one of her sons might become king. Mongfind offers Crimthann a poisoned drink at a feast, but he asks her to drink from it first. Having no other choice but to drink the poison, she dies on Samhain eve. The Middle Irish writer notes that Samhain is also called \"Féile Moingfhinne\" (the Festival of Mongfind or Mongfhionn), and that \"women and the rabble make petitions to her\" at Samhain.\n\nMany other events in Irish mythology happen or begin on Samhain. The invasion of Ulster that makes up the main action of the \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\" ('Cattle Raid of Cooley') begins on Samhain. As cattle-raiding typically was a summer activity, the invasion during this off-season surprised the Ulstermen. The \"Second Battle of Magh Tuireadh\" also begins on Samhain. The Morrígan and The Dagda meet and have sex before the battle against the Fomorians; in this way the Morrígan acts as a sovereignty figure and gives the victory to the Dagda's people, the Tuatha Dé Danann. In \"Aislinge Óengusa\" ('The Dream of Óengus') it is when he and his bride-to-be switch from bird to human form, and in \"Tochmarc Étaíne\" ('The Wooing of Étaín') it is the day on which Óengus claims the kingship of Brú na Bóinne.\n\nSeveral sites in Ireland are especially linked to Samhain. Each Samhain a host of otherworldly beings was said to emerge from Oweynagat (\"cave of the cats\"), at Rathcroghan in County Roscommon. The Hill of Ward (or Tlachtga) in County Meath is thought to have been the site of a great Samhain gathering and bonfire; the Iron Age ringfort is said to have been where the goddess or druid Tlachtga gave birth to triplets and where she later died.\n\nIn \"The Stations of the Sun: A History of the Ritual Year in Britain\" (1996), Ronald Hutton writes: \"No doubt there were [pagan] religious observances as well, but none of the tales ever portrays any\". The only historic reference to pagan religious rites is in the work of Geoffrey Keating (died 1644), but his source is unknown. Hutton says it may be that no religious rites are mentioned because, centuries after Christianization, the writers had no record of them. Hutton suggests Samhain may not have been \"particularly\" associated with the supernatural. He says that the gatherings of royalty and warriors on Samhain may simply have been an ideal setting for such tales, in the same way that many Arthurian tales are set at courtly gatherings at Christmas or Pentecost.\n\nSamhain was one of the four main festivals of the Gaelic calendar, marking the end of the harvest and beginning of winter. Samhain customs are mentioned in several medieval texts. In \"Serglige Con Culainn\" ('Cúchulainn's Sickbed'), it is said that the festival of the Ulaid at Samhain lasted a week: Samhain itself, and the three days before and after. It involved great gatherings at which they held meetings, feasted, drank alcohol, and held contests. The \"Togail Bruidne Dá Derga\" notes that bonfires were lit at Samhain and stones cast into the fires. It is mentioned in Geoffrey Keating's \"Foras Feasa ar Éirinn\", which was written in the early 1600s but draws on earlier medieval sources, some of which are unknown. He claims that the \"feis\" of Tara was held for a week every third Samhain, when the nobles and ollams of Ireland met to lay down and renew the laws, and to feast. He also claims that the druids lit a sacred bonfire at Tlachtga and made sacrifices to the gods, sometimes by burning them in the fire. He adds that all other fires were doused and then re-lit from this bonfire.\n\nTraditionally, Samhain was a time to take stock of the herds and food supplies. Cattle were brought down to the winter pastures after six months in the higher summer pastures. It was also the time to choose which animals would need to be slaughtered for the winter. This custom is still observed by many who farm and raise livestock because it is when meat will keep since the freeze has come and also since summer grass is gone and free foraging is no longer possible. It is thought that some of the rituals associated with the slaughter have been transferred to other winter holidays. On St. Martin's Day (11 November) in Ireland, an animal—usually a rooster, goose or sheep—would be slaughtered and some of its blood sprinkled on the threshold of the house. It was offered to Saint Martin, who may have taken the place of a god or gods, and it was then eaten as part of a feast. This custom was common in parts of Ireland until the 19th century, and was found in some other parts of Europe. At New Year in the Hebrides, a man dressed in a cowhide would circle the township sunwise. A bit of the hide would be burnt and everyone would breathe in the smoke. These customs were meant to keep away bad luck, and similar customs were found in other Celtic regions.\n\nAs at Bealtaine, bonfires were lit on hilltops at Samhain and there were rituals involving them. However, by the modern era, they only seem to have been common in parts of the Scottish Highlands, on the Isle of Man, in north and mid Wales, and in parts of Ulster. F. Marian McNeill says that a force-fire (or need-fire) was the traditional way of lighting them, but notes that this method gradually died out. Likewise, only certain kinds of wood were traditionally used, but later records show that many kinds of flammable material were burnt. It is suggested that the fires were a kind of imitative or sympathetic magic—they mimicked the Sun, helping the \"powers of growth\" and holding back the decay and darkness of winter. They may also have served to symbolically \"burn up and destroy all harmful influences\". Accounts from the 18th and 19th centuries suggest that the fires (as well as their smoke and ashes) were deemed to have protective and cleansing powers. In Moray, boys asked for bonfire fuel from each house in the village. When the fire was lit, \"one after another of the youths laid himself down on the ground as near to the fire as possible so as not to be burned, and in such a position as to let the smoke roll over him. The others ran through the smoke and jumped over him\". When the bonfire burnt down, they scattered the ashes, vying with each other who should scatter them most. Sometimes, two bonfires would be built side by side, and the people—sometimes with their livestock—would walk between them as a cleansing ritual. The bones of slaughtered cattle were said to have been cast upon bonfires. In the pre-Christian Gaelic world, cattle were the main form of wealth and were the center of agricultural and pastoral life.\n\nPeople also took flames from the bonfire back to their homes. In parts of Scotland, torches of burning fir or turf were carried sunwise around homes and fields to protect them. In some places, people doused their hearth fires on Samhain night. Each family then solemnly re-lit its hearth from the communal bonfire, thus bonding the community together. The 17th century writer Geoffrey Keating claimed that this was an ancient tradition, instituted by the druids. Dousing the old fire and bringing in the new may have been a way of banishing evil, which was done at New Year festivals in many countries.\n\nThe bonfires were also used in divination rituals. In 18th century Ochtertyre, a ring of stones—one for each person—was laid round the fire, perhaps on a layer of ashes. Everyone then ran round it with a torch, \"exulting\". In the morning, the stones were examined and if any was mislaid it was said that the person it represented would not live out the year. A similar custom was observed in north Wales and in Brittany. James Frazer says that this may come from \"an older custom of actually burning them\" (i.e. human sacrifice) or may have always been symbolic. Divination has likely been a part of the festival since ancient times, and it has survived in some rural areas. At household festivities throughout the Gaelic regions and Wales, there were many rituals intended to divine the future of those gathered, especially with regard to death and marriage. Apples and hazelnuts were often used in these divination rituals or games. In Celtic mythology, apples were strongly associated with the Otherworld and immortality, while hazelnuts were associated with divine wisdom. One of the most common games was apple bobbing. Another involved hanging a small wooden rod from the ceiling at head height, with a lit candle on one end and an apple hanging from the other. The rod was spun round and everyone took turns to try to catch the apple with their teeth. Apples were peeled in one long strip, the peel tossed over the shoulder, and its shape was said to form the first letter of the future spouse's name. Two hazelnuts were roasted near a fire; one named for the person roasting them and the other for the person they desired. If the nuts jumped away from the heat, it was a bad sign, but if the nuts roasted quietly it foretold a good match. Items were hidden in food—usually a cake, barmbrack, cranachan, champ or sowans—and portions of it served out at random. A person's future was foretold by the item they happened to find; for example a ring meant marriage and a coin meant wealth. A salty oatmeal bannock was baked; the person ate it in three bites and then went to bed in silence without anything to drink. This was said to result in a dream in which their future spouse offers them a drink to quench their thirst. Egg whites were dropped in water, and the shapes foretold the number of future children. Children would also chase crows and divine some of these things from the number of birds or the direction they flew.\n\nAs noted earlier, Samhain was seen as a liminal time, when the boundary between this world and the Otherworld could more easily be crossed. This meant the \"aos sí\", the 'spirits' or 'fairies', could more easily come into our world. Many scholars see the \"aos sí\" as remnants of the pagan gods and nature spirits. At Samhain, it was believed that the \"aos sí\" needed to be propitiated to ensure that the people and their livestock survived the winter. As such, offerings of food and drink would be left outside for the \"aos sí\". Portions of the crops might also be left in the ground for them. One custom—described a \"blatant example\" of a \"pagan rite surviving into the Christian epoch\"—was observed in the Outer Hebrides until the early 19th century. On 31 October, the locals would go down to the shore. One man would wade into the water up to his waist, where he would pour out a cup of ale and ask 'Seonaidh' ('Shoney'), whom he called \"god of the sea\", to bestow blessings on them. People also took special care not to offend the \"aos sí\" and sought to ward-off any who were out to cause mischief. They stayed near to home or, if forced to walk in the darkness, turned their clothing inside-out or carried iron or salt to keep them at bay. The dead were also honored at Samhain. The beginning of winter may have been seen as the most fitting time to do so, as it was a time of 'dying' in nature. The souls of the dead were thought to revisit their homes seeking hospitality. Places were set at the dinner table and by the fire to welcome them. The belief that the souls of the dead return home on one night of the year and must be appeased seems to have ancient origins and is found in many cultures throughout the world. James Frazer suggests \"It was perhaps a natural thought that the approach of winter should drive the poor, shivering, hungry ghosts from the bare fields and the leafless woodlands to the shelter of the cottage\". However, the souls of thankful kin could return to bestow blessings just as easily as that of a wronged person could return to wreak revenge.\n\nMumming and guising was a part of Samhain from at least the 16th century and was recorded in parts of Ireland, Scotland, Mann and Wales. It involved people going from house to house in costume (or in disguise), usually reciting songs or verses in exchange for food. It is suggested that it evolved from a tradition whereby people impersonated the \"aos sí\", or the souls of the dead, and received offerings on their behalf. Impersonating these spirits or souls was also believed to protect oneself from them. S. V. Peddle suggests the guisers \"personify the old spirits of the winter, who demanded reward in exchange for good fortune\". McNeill suggests that the ancient festival included people in masks or costumes representing these spirits and that the modern custom came from this. In Ireland, costumes were sometimes worn by those who went about before nightfall collecting for a Samhain feast.\n\nIn parts of southern Ireland during the 19th century, the guisers included a hobby horse known as the \"Láir Bhán\" (white mare). A man covered in a white sheet and carrying a decorated horse skull (representing the \"Láir Bhán\") would lead a group of youths, blowing on cow horns, from farm to farm. At each they recited verses, some of which \"savoured strongly of paganism\", and the farmer was expected to donate food. If the farmer donated food he could expect good fortune from the 'Muck Olla'; not doing so would bring misfortune. This is akin to the \"Mari Lwyd\" (grey mare) procession in Wales, which takes place at Midwinter. In Wales the white horse is often seen as an omen of death. In some places, young people cross-dressed. In Scotland, young men went house-to-house with masked, veiled, painted or blackened faces, often threatening to do mischief if they were not welcomed. This was common in the 16th century in the Scottish countryside and persisted into the 20th. It is suggested that the blackened faces comes from using the bonfire's ashes for protection. Elsewhere in Europe, costumes, mumming and hobby horses were part of other yearly festivals. However, in the Celtic-speaking regions they were \"particularly appropriate to a night upon which supernatural beings were said to be abroad and could be imitated or warded off by human wanderers\".\n\nHutton writes: \"When imitating malignant spirits it was a very short step from guising to playing pranks\". Playing pranks at Samhain is recorded in the Scottish Highlands as far back as 1736 and was also common in Ireland, which led to Samhain being nicknamed \"Mischief Night\" in some parts. Wearing costumes at Halloween spread to England in the 20th century, as did the custom of playing pranks, though there had been mumming at other festivals. At the time of mass transatlantic Irish and Scottish immigration, which popularised Halloween in North America, Halloween in Ireland and Scotland had a strong tradition of guising and pranks. Trick-or-treating may have come from the custom of going door-to-door collecting food for Samhain feasts, fuel for Samhain bonfires and/or offerings for the \"aos sí\". Alternatively, it may have come from the All Saints/All Souls custom of collecting soul cakes.\n\nThe \"traditional illumination for guisers or pranksters abroad on the night in some places was provided by turnips or mangel wurzels, hollowed out to act as lanterns and often carved with grotesque faces\". They were also set on windowsills. By those who made them, the lanterns were variously said to represent the spirits or supernatural beings, or were used to ward off evil spirits. These were common in parts of Ireland and the Scotland into the 20th century. They were also found in Somerset (see Punkie Night). In the 20th century they spread to other parts of England and became generally known as jack-o'-lanterns.\n\nDuring the late 19th and early 20th century Celtic Revival, there was an upswell of interest in Samhain and the other Celtic festivals. Sir John Rhys put forth that it had been the \"Celtic New Year\". He inferred it from contemporary folklore in Ireland and Wales, which he felt was \"full of Hallowe'en customs associated with new beginnings\". He visited Mann and found that the Manx sometimes called 31 October \"New Year's Night\" or \"Hog-unnaa\". The \"Tochmarc Emire\", written in the Middle Ages, reckoned the year around the four festivals at the beginning of the seasons, and put Samhain at the beginning of those. However, Hutton says that the evidence for it being the Celtic or Gaelic New Year's Day is flimsy. Rhys's theory was popularised by Sir James George Frazer, though at times he did acknowledge that the evidence is inconclusive. Frazer also put forth that Samhain had been the pagan Celtic festival of the dead and that it had been Christianized as All Saints and All Souls. Since then, Samhain has been popularly seen as the Celtic New Year and an ancient festival of the dead. The calendar of the Celtic League, for example, begins and ends at Samhain.\n\nIn the Brythonic branch of the Celtic languages, Samhain is known as the 'calends of winter'. The Brythonic lands of Wales, Cornwall and Brittany held festivals on 31 October similar to the Gaelic one. In Wales it is \"Calan Gaeaf\", in Cornwall it is Allantide or \"Kalan Gwav\" and in Brittany it is \"Kalan Goañv\".\n\nThe Manx celebrate Hop-tu-Naa on 31 October, which is a celebration of the original New Year's Eve. The term is Manx Gaelic in origin, possibly from \"Shogh ta'n Oie\", meaning \"this is the night\". Traditionally, children carve turnips rather than pumpkins and carry them around the neighborhood singing traditional songs relating to hop-tu-naa.\n\nThe Roman Catholic holy day of All Saints (or All Hallows) was introduced in the year 609, but was originally celebrated on 13 May. In 835, Louis the Pious switched it to 1 November in the Carolingian Empire, at the behest of Pope Gregory IV. However, from the testimony of Pseudo-Bede, it is known that churches in what are now England and Germany were already celebrating All Saints on 1 November at the beginning of the 8th century. Thus, Louis merely made official the custom of celebrating it on 1 November. James Frazer suggests that 1 November was chosen because it was the date of the Celtic festival of the dead (Samhain)—the Celts had influenced their English neighbours, and English missionaries had influenced the Germans. However, Ronald Hutton points out that, according to Óengus of Tallaght (d. ca. 824), the 7th/8th century church in Ireland celebrated All Saints on 20 April. He suggests that the 1 November date was a Germanic rather than a Celtic idea. In the 11th century, 2 November became established as All Souls' Day. This created the three-day observance known as Allhallowtide: All Hallows' Eve (31 October), All Hallows' Day (1 November), and All Souls' Day (2 November).\n\nIt is widely believed that many of the modern secular customs of All Hallows' Eve (or Halloween) were influenced by the festival of Samhain.\n\nSamhain and Samhain-based festivals are held by some Neopagans. As there are many kinds of Neopaganism, their Samhain celebrations can be very different despite the shared name. Some try to emulate the historic festival as much as possible. Other Neopagans base their celebrations on sundry unrelated sources, Gaelic culture being only one of the sources. Folklorist Jenny Butler describes how Irish pagans pick some elements of historic Samhain celebrations and meld them with references to the Celtic past, making a new festival of Samhain that is inimitably part of neo-pagan culture.\n\nNeopagans usually celebrate Samhain on 31 October – 1 November in the Northern Hemisphere and 30 April – 1 May in the Southern Hemisphere, beginning and ending at sundown. Some Neopagans celebrate it at the astronomical midpoint between the autumn equinox and winter solstice (or the full moon nearest this point). In the Northern Hemisphere, this midpoint is when the ecliptic longitude of the Sun reaches 225 degrees. In 2015, this is on 7 November, at 17:44 GMT.\n\nLike other Reconstructionist traditions, Celtic Reconstructionist Pagans emphasize historical accuracy. They base their celebrations and rituals on traditional lore as well as research into the beliefs of the polytheistic Celts.\n\nCeltic Reconstructionist Pagans (or CRs) often celebrate Samhain on the date of first frost, or when the last of the harvest is in and the ground is dry enough to have a bonfire. Some follow the old tradition of building two bonfires, which celebrants and livestock then walk or dance between as a ritual of purification. For CRs, it is a time when the dead are especially honoured. Though CRs make offerings at all times of the year, Samhain is a time when more elaborate offerings are made to specific ancestors. This may involve making a small shrine. Often there will be a meal, where a place for the dead is set at the table and they are invited to join. Traditional tales may be told and traditional songs, poems and dances performed. A western-facing door or window may be opened and a candle left burning on the windowsill to guide the dead home. Divination for the coming year is often done, whether in all solemnity or as games for the children. The more mystically inclined may also see this as a time for deeply communing with their deities, especially those seen as being particularly linked with this festival.\n\nWiccans celebrate a variation of Samhain as one of the yearly Sabbats of the Wheel of the Year. It is deemed by most Wiccans to be the most important of the four \"greater Sabbats\". Samhain is seen by some Wiccans as a time to celebrate the lives of those who have died, and it often involves paying respect to ancestors, family members, elders of the faith, friends, pets and other loved ones who have died. In some rituals the spirits of the dead are invited to attend the festivities. It is seen as a festival of darkness, which is balanced at the opposite point of the wheel by the spring festival of Beltane, which Wiccans celebrate as a festival of light and fertility.\n\nWiccans believe that at Samhain the veil between this world and the afterlife is at its thinnest point of the whole year, making it easier to communicate with those who have left this world.\n\nHolidays\n\nCalendars\n\nEarly Irish literature\n\n"}
{"id": "2533715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2533715", "title": "Savonlinna Opera Festival", "text": "Savonlinna Opera Festival\n\nSavonlinna Opera Festival () is held annually in the city of Savonlinna in Finland. The Festival takes place at the medieval Olavinlinna (St. Olaf's Castle), built in 1475. The castle is located amid spectacular lake scenery.\n\nThe birth of the Savonlinna Opera Festival ties in closely with the emerging Finnish identity and striving for independence at the beginning of the 20th century. Attending a nationalist meeting in Olavinlinna Castle in 1907, the Finnish soprano Aino Ackté, already famous at opera houses the world over and an ardent patriot, immediately spotted the potential of the castle as the venue for an opera festival.\n\nThe first opera festival was held in 1912. Aino Ackté directed the festival for five summers, staging four Finnish operas. The only opera by a non-Finnish composer was Charles Gounod’s \"Faust\", with Ackté herself in the leading female role of Marguerite.\n\nIn 1917 the festival ran into difficulties because of First World War, Finnish Declaration of Independence and the ensuing Finnish Civil War.\n\nFor fifty years, the opera festival was dormant, but in 1967, Savonlinna Music Days decided to organise an opera course for young singers. The high point of the course was a performance of Beethoven's \"Fidelio\" in the castle. Therefore, 1967 is nowadays regarded as the start of the present Festival; since then it has had steady growth of both audience and reputation.\n\nThe Savonlinna Opera Festival has grown into an internationally recognised festival lasting a month. Each year it performs to a total audience of around 60,000, an estimated quarter of whom come from abroad. Each year the Festival has, in addition to staging leading works from classical operatic repertoire, staged its own productions.\n\nSix operas have been premiered at the Savonlinna Opera Festival since 1967: \"The Horseman\" (1975), \"The King Goes Forth to France\" (1984, commissioned jointly by Covent Garden and the BBC), and \"The Palace\" (1995) by Aulis Sallinen, \"The Knife\" (1989) by Paavo Heininen, \"Aleksis Kivi\" (1997) by Einojuhani Rautavaara and \"The Age of Dreams\" (2000–2001) by Herman Rechberger , Olli Kortekangas and Kalevi Aho.\n\nFor over a decade, the Savonlinna Opera Festival has hosted foreign opera companies: The first of these was the Estonia Theatre from Tallinn. This was followed for the next three seasons by the world-famous Mariinsky (Kirov) Theatre from St. Petersburg, by Covent Garden from London in 1998, the Opéra national du Rhin from Strasbourg in 1999, the New Israeli Opera in 2000, Los Angeles Opera in 2001, the Deutsche Oper am Rhein in 2002, and the Choir and Orchestra of the Municipal Theatre of Santiago in 2003, with a staging of Sergio Ortega's \"Fulgor y Muerte de Joaquín Murieta\", after a libretto by Nobel Prize winner Pablo Neruda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50967962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50967962", "title": "Seoul Jazz Festival", "text": "Seoul Jazz Festival\n\nThe Seoul Jazz Festival () is an annual jazz festival which takes place in the city of Seoul, South Korea. The festival spans across two or three days. Famous jazz artists from all around the world gather in Seoul every May to perform and enjoy jazz music with crowd. The year of 2016 was the festival's 10th anniversary. \n\n2007\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\n2014\n\n2015\n\n2016\n\n\n2018\nhttp://www.seouljazz.co.kr/english\n"}
{"id": "49868189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49868189", "title": "Six Days of Zürich", "text": "Six Days of Zürich\n\nThe Six Days of Zürich was a six-day track cycling race held annually in Zürich, Switzerland. The event was first held in 1954 and the final edition was held in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "3070332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070332", "title": "Somali Civil War", "text": "Somali Civil War\n\nThe Somali Civil War (, ) is an ongoing civil war taking place in Somalia. It grew out of resistance to the military junta led by Siad Barre during the 1980s. By 1988–90, the Somali Armed Forces began engaging various armed rebel groups, including the Somali Salvation Democratic Front in the northeast, the Somali National Movement in the northwest, and the United Somali Congress in the south. The clan-based armed opposition groups eventually managed to overthrow the Barre government in 1991.\n\nVarious armed factions began competing for influence in the power vacuum and turmoil that followed, particularly in the south. In 1990–92 customary law temporarily collapsed due to the fighting. This precipitated the arrival of UNOSOM I UN military observers in July 1992, followed by larger peacekeeping forces. Factional fighting continued in the south. In the absence of a central government, Somalia became a \"failed state\". The UN withdrew in 1995, having incurred significant casualties, but no central authority had yet been reestablished. After the collapse of the central government, there was some return to customary and religious law in most regions. In 1991 and 1998, two autonomous regional governments were also not established in the northern part of the country. This led to a relative decrease in the intensity of the fighting, with SIPRI removing Somalia from its list of major armed conflicts for the years 1997 and 1998.\n\nIn 2000, the Transitional National Government was established, followed by the Transitional Federal Government (TFG) in 2004. The trend towards reduced conflict halted in 2005, and sustained and destructive conflict took place in the south in 2005–07. However, the fighting was of a much lower scale and intensity than in the early 1990s. In 2006, Ethiopian troops seized most of the south from the newly formed Islamic Courts Union (ICU). The ICU then splintered into more radical groups, notably Al-Shabaab, which have since been fighting the Somali government and the AU-mandated AMISOM peacekeeping force for control of the country. Somalia topped the annual Fragile States Index for six years between 2008 and 2013.\n\nIn October 2011, following preparatory meetings, Kenyan troops entered southern Somalia (\"Operation Linda Nchi\") to fight Al-Shabaab, and to establish a buffer zone inside Somalia. Kenyan troops were formally integrated into the multinational force in February 2012. The Federal Government of Somalia was later established in August 2012, constituting the first permanent central government in the country since the start of the civil war. International stakeholders and analysts have subsequently begun to describe Somalia as a \"fragile state\", which is making some progress towards stability.\n\nIn May 1986, Barre suffered serious injuries in an automobile accident near Mogadishu, when the car that was transporting him smashed into the back of a bus during a heavy rainstorm. He was treated in a hospital in Saudi Arabia for head injuries, broken ribs and shock over a period of a month. Lieutenant General Mohamed Ali Samatar, then Vice President, subsequently served as de facto head of state for the next several months. Although Barre managed to recover enough to present himself as the sole presidential candidate for re-election over a term of seven years on December 23, 1986, his poor health and advanced age led to speculation about who would succeed him in power. Possible contenders included his son-in-law General Ahmed Suleiman Abdille, who was at the time the Minister of the Interior, in addition to Samatar.\n\nIn an effort to hold on to power, Barre's ruling Supreme Revolutionary Council (SRC) became increasingly totalitarian and arbitrary. This caused opposition to his government to grow. Barre in turn tried to quell the unrest by abandoning appeals to nationalism, relying more and more on his own inner circle, and exploiting historical clan animosities. By the mid-1980s, more resistance movements supported by Ethiopia's communist Derg administration had sprung up across the country. Barre responded by ordering punitive measures against those he perceived as locally supporting the guerrillas, especially in the northern regions. The clampdown included bombing of cities, with the northwestern administrative center of Hargeisa, a Somali National Movement (SNM) stronghold, among the targeted areas in 1988.\n\nIn 1990, as fighting intensified, Somalia's first President Aden Abdullah Osman Daar and about 100 other Somali politicians signed a manifesto advocating reconciliation. A number of the signatories were subsequently arrested. Barre's heavy-handed tactics further strengthened the appeal of the various rebel movements, although these groups' only common goal was the overthrow of his government. It also played a major role in developing piracy in Somalia.\n\nBy mid 1990, United Somali Congress (USC) rebels had captured most towns and villages surrounding Mogadishu, which prompted some to give Barre the ironic title 'Mayor of Mogadishu.' In December the USC entered Mogadishu. Four weeks of battle between Barre's remaining troops and the USC ensued, over the course of which the USC brought more forces into the city. By January 1991, USC rebels had managed to defeat the Red Berets, in the process toppling Barre's government. The remainder of the government's forces then finally collapsed. Some became irregular regional forces and clan militias. After the USC's victory over Barre's troops, the other rebel groups declined to cooperate with it, as each instead drew primary support from their own constituencies. Among these other opposition movements were the Somali Patriotic Movement (SPM) and Somali Democratic Alliance (SDA), a Gadabuursi group which had been formed in the northwest to counter the Somali National Movement Isaaq militia. For its part, the SNM initially refused to accept the legitimacy of the provisional government that the USC had established. However, the SNM's former leader Ahmed Mohamed Silanyo later proposed a power-sharing framework in March 1991 between the SNM and USC under a new transitional government.\n\nMany of the opposition groups subsequently began competing for influence in the power vacuum that followed the ouster of Barre's government. In the south, armed factions led by USC commanders General Mohamed Farah Aidid and Ali Mahdi Mohamed, in particular, clashed as each sought to exert authority over the capital. In the northwest, at the Burao conference of April–May 1991, SNM secessionists proclaimed independence for the region under the name Somaliland. They concurrently selected the SNM's leader Abdirahman Ahmed Ali Tuur as president.\n\nIn 1992, after four months of heavy fighting for control of Mogadishu, a ceasefire was agreed between Ali Mahdi Mohamed and Mohamed Farah Aideed. Neither leader had seized control of the capital, and as a result, a 'greenline' was established between north and south that divided their areas of control.\n\nUN Security Council Resolution 733 and UN Security Council Resolution 746 led to the creation of the United Nations Operation in Somalia I (UNOSOM I), to provide humanitarian relief and help restore order in Somalia after the dissolution of its central government.\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 794 was unanimously passed on December 3, 1992, which approved a coalition of United Nations peacekeepers led by the United States. Forming the Unified Task Force (UNITAF), the alliance was tasked with assuring security until humanitarian efforts aimed at stabilizing the situation were transferred to the UN. Landing in 1993, the UN peacekeeping coalition started the two-year United Nations Operation in Somalia II (UNOSOM II) primarily in the south. UNITAF's original mandate was to use \"all necessary means\" to guarantee the delivery of humanitarian aid in accordance to Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter.\n\nDuring negotiations from 1993 to 1995, Somali principals had some success in reconciliation and establishment of public authorities. Among these initiatives was the Mudug peace agreement of June 1993 between Aidid's forces and the SSDF, which established a ceasefire between the Haber Gedir and the Majeerteen clans, opened the trade routes, and formalized the withdrawal of militants from Galkayo; the UNOSOM-mediated Hirab reconciliation of January 1994 in Mogadishu between elders of the rival Abgal and Haber Gedir clans, which was backed by politicians from these constituencies and concluded with a pact to end hostilities, dismantle the green line partitioning the city, and remove road blocks; the UNOSOM-mediated Kismayo initiative of 1994 between the SNA, SPM, SSDF, and representatives of nineteen clans from the southern Lower Juba and Middle Juba regions; the 1994 Bardhere conference between the Marehan and Rahanweyn (Digil and Mirifle), which resolved conflicts over local resources; and the short-lived Digil-Mirifle Governing Council for the southern Bay and Bakool regions, which was established in March 1995.\n\nSome of the militias that were then competing for power saw UNOSOM's presence as a threat to their hegemony. Consequently, gun battles took place in Mogadishu between local gunmen and peacekeepers. Among these was the Battle of Mogadishu in October 1993, an unsuccessful attempt by U.S. troops to apprehend faction leader Aidid. UN soldiers eventually withdrew altogether from the country on March 3, 1995, having incurred more significant casualties.\n\nAccording to Interpeace, after UNOSOM's departure in March 1995, military clashes between local factions became shorter, generally less intense, and more localized. This was in part due to the large-scale UN military intervention that had helped to curb the intense fighting between the major factions, who then began to focus on consolidating gains that they had made. The local peace and reconciliation initiatives that had been undertaken in the south-central part of the country between 1993 and 1995 also generally had a positive impact.\n\nAidid subsequently declared himself President of Somalia on June 15, 1995. However, his declaration received no recognition, as his rival Ali Mahdi Muhammad had already been elected interim President at a conference in Djibouti and recognized as such by the international community.\n\nConsequently, Aidid's faction continued its quest for hegemony in the south. In September 1995, militia forces loyal to him attacked and occupied the city of Baidoa. Aidid's forces remained in control of Baidoa from September 1995 to at least January 1996, while the local Rahanweyn Resistance Army militia continued to engage his forces in the town's environs.\n\nFighting continued in the later half of 1995 in southern Kismayo and the Juba Valley, as well as southwestern and central Somalia. However, despite these pockets of conflict, the Gedo and Middle Shabelle regions, in addition to both the northeastern and northwestern parts of the country remained relatively peaceful. A number of the regional and district administrations that had been locally established in the preceding few years continued to operate in these areas.\n\nIn March 1996, Ali Mahdi was elected chairman of the United Somali Congress/Somali Salvation Alliance (USC/SSA), based in northern Mogadishu. In the southern part of city, Aidid's forces battled those of Osman Atto for control of the port of Merca as well as strategic areas in Mogadishu. Fighting in Merca eventually ended after elders intervened, but continued in Mogadishu. In August 1996, Aidid died from wounds incurred during combat in the Medina area.\n\nIn 1998, a homegrown constitutional conference was held in the northeastern town of Garowe over a period of three months. Attended by the area's political elite, traditional elders (\"Issims\"), members of the business community, intellectuals and other civil society representatives, the autonomous Puntland State of Somalia was subsequently officially established so as to deliver services to the population, offer security, facilitate trade, and interact with both domestic and international partners.\n\nIn 1999, Eritrea was alleged to be supporting Somali National Alliance forces led by the late Aidid's son Hussein Farrah Aidid. Aidid jr. denied the claims, saying that the Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had requested that he mediate between Ethiopia and Eritrea in their separate conflict. However the International Institute for Strategic Studies separately reported that Hussein Aideed himself had acknowledged support from both Eritrea and Uganda. Aideed's forces occupied Baidoa in May 1999. However they were driven out by the Rahanweyn Resistance Army in June 1999, backed by an Ethiopian force of up to 3,000 using tanks and artillery. The IISS said that the attack was part of a strategy to prevent Eritrea opening up a new front. By the end of the year, the Rahanweyn Resistance Army had taken control of the southern Bay and Bakool provinces. The RRA's leader Hasan Muhammad Nur Shatigadud subsequently established the Southwestern State of Somalia regional administration.\n\nIn 2000, Ali Mahdi participated in another conference in Djibouti. He lost a re-election bid there to Barre's former Interior Minister Abdiqasim Salad Hassan.\n\nIn 2000, the Transitional National Government (TNG) was established. The Transitional Federal Government (TFG) was formed in Nairobi in 2004. Selection of members of parliament was underway by June, over two hundred members of parliament (MPs) took the oath of office in August, and Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed was elected president by the parliament in October 2004.\nHowever, in March 2005 the TFG split after a brawl in parliament over deployment of peacekeepers and relocation to an interim capital. The parliamentary speaker led some members to Mogadishu while the president and others remained in Nairobi. In June 2005, under pressure from Kenya, the remainder of the TFG left Nairobi for Jowhar. In February 2006, the TFG parliament met in Baidoa for the first time since March 2005. (Interpeace, 104)\nA battle for Mogadishu followed in the first half of 2006 in which the ARPCT, a coalition of U.S.-backed militia leaders, confronted the ascendant Islamic Courts Union (ICU). However, the ICU won a decisive victory in June of that year. It then rapidly expanded and consolidated its power throughout southern Somalia. By August 2006, the TFG was confined to Baidoa under Ethiopian protection. (Interpeace, 104) Hardline Islamists subsequently gained power within the ICU, prompting fears of a Talibanization of the movement.\n\nIn December 2006, Ethiopian troops entered Somalia to assist the TFG against the advancing Islamic Courts Union, initially winning the Battle of Baidoa. With their support, Somali government forces recaptured the capital from the ICU. The offensive helped the TFG solidify its rule. On January 8, 2007, as the Battle of Ras Kamboni raged, TFG President and founder Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed entered Mogadishu for the first time since being elected to office. But as Meckhaus writes, the TFG was seen \"by most of the Mogadishu population as a puppet of Ethiopia, and uncontrolled TFG security forces became the principal sources of insecurity for the local population, engaging in kidnapping, assaults, and worse.\" Within weeks, an armed insurgency subsequently arose in the capital against the TFG and its Ethiopian allies. The government then relocated to the capital from its interim location in Baidoa. \nThe arms embargo on Somalia was amended in February 2007 to allow states to supply weapons to the TFG's security forces, provided that they received prior approval from the UN's Somalia Sanctions Committee. After long discussions, the African Union approved the initial deployment of the African Union Mission to Somalia (AMISOM) in March 2007. It established a 'small triangle of protection' around Mogadishu's airport, seaport, and the Villa Somalia, and began to adopt a low-key negotiating profile with key actors. In November 2008, following repeated violations of the weapons blockade, the Security Council decided that an arms embargo could be imposed on entities involved in such breaches.\nAfter a two-year consultation process, the TFG was formed in 2004 by Somali politicians in Nairobi under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). The process also led to the establishment of the Transitional Federal Institutions (TFIs), and concluded in October 2004 with the election of Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed as president. The TFG thereafter became Somalia's internationally recognized government.\n\nFollowing their defeat, the Islamic Courts Union splintered into several different factions. Some of the more radical elements, including Al-Shabaab, regrouped to continue their insurgency against the TFG and oppose the Ethiopian military's presence in Somalia. Throughout 2007 and 2008, Al-Shabaab scored military victories, seizing control of key towns and ports in both central and southern Somalia. At the end of 2008, the group had captured Baidoa but not Mogadishu. On May 1, 2008, the U.S. made an airstrike on Dhusamareb, and followed on 3 May with another airstrike on the border town of Dobley. According to the International Crisis Group, Ethiopia's leaders were surprised by the insurgency's persistence and strength and frustrated at the TFG's chronic internal problems. By January 2009, Al-Shabaab and other militias had forced the Ethiopian troops to retreat, leaving behind an understaffed African Union peacekeeping force.\n\nDue to a lack of funding and human resources, an arms embargo that made it difficult to re-establish a national security force, and general indifference on the part of the international community, President Yusuf found himself obliged to deploy thousands of troops from Puntland to Mogadishu to sustain the battle against insurgent elements in the southern part of the country. Financial support for this effort was provided by the autonomous region's government. This left little revenue for Puntland's own security forces and civil service employees, leaving the territory vulnerable to piracy and terrorist attacks.\n\nOn December 29, 2008, Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed announced before a united parliament in Baidoa his resignation as President of Somalia. In his speech, which was broadcast on national radio, Yusuf expressed regret at failing to end the country's seventeen-year conflict as his government had mandated to do. He also blamed the international community for its failure to support the government, and said that the speaker of parliament would succeed him in office per the charter of the Transitional Federal Government.\n\nBetween May 31 and June 9, 2008, representatives of Somalia's federal government and the moderate Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia (ARS) group of Islamist rebels participated in peace talks in Djibouti brokered by the former United Nations Special Envoy to Somalia, Ahmedou Ould-Abdallah. The conference ended with a signed agreement calling for the withdrawal of Ethiopian troops in exchange for the cessation of armed confrontation. Parliament was subsequently expanded to 550 seats to accommodate ARS members, which then elected Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, the former ARS chairman, to office. President Sharif shortly afterwards appointed Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke, the son of slain former President Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke, as the nation's new Prime Minister.\n\nWith the help of AMISOM, the coalition government also began a counteroffensive in February 2009 to assume full control of the southern half of the country. To solidify its rule, the TFG formed an alliance with the Islamic Courts Union, other members of the Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia, and Ahlu Sunna Waljama'a, a moderate Sufi militia. Furthermore, Al-Shabaab and Hizbul Islam, the two main Islamist groups in opposition, began to fight amongst themselves in mid-2009.\n\nAs a truce, in March 2009, Somalia's coalition government announced that it would re-implement shari'a as the nation's official judicial system. However, conflict continued in the southern and central parts of the country. Within months, the coalition government had gone from holding about 70% of south-central Somalia's conflict zones, territory which it had inherited from the previous Yusuf administration, to losing control of over 80% of the disputed territory to the Islamist insurgents.\n\nIn November 2010, a new technocratic government was elected to office, which enacted numerous reforms. Among these, in its first 50 days in office, the new administration completed its first monthly payment of stipends to government soldiers.\n\nOn August 6, 2011, Al-Shabaab was forced to withdraw from most areas of Mogadishu. Somali government forces and their AMISOM allies subsequently launched offensives in January 2012 on the insurgent group's last foothold on the northern outskirts of the city. An ideological rift within Al-Shabaab's leadership also emerged after the 2011 drought and the assassination of top officials in the organization.\n\nIn October 2011, following a weekend preparatory meeting between Somali and Kenyan military officials in the town of Dhobley, Operation Linda Nchi, involving the Kenya Defence Forces and Somali Armed Forces, began against the Al-Shabaab group of insurgents in southern Somalia. The cross-border incursion had reportedly taken nearly two years of planning, during which Kenyan officials had sought U.S. support. In early June 2012, Kenyan troops were formally integrated into AMISOM.\n\nIn late September and early October 2012, Kenya Army AMISOM troops, and the allied Raskamboni militia captured the strategic town of Kismayo from Al-Shabaab. The southern city was a key source of revenue for the insurgent group and constituted its last major stronghold.\n\nThe Federal Government of Somalia was established in September 2012 (Bryden, Somalia Redux).\n\nIn January 2013, AMISOM's mandate was extended for another year following the adoption of UNSC Resolution 2093. The Security Council therein also unanimously voted to suspend Somalia's arms embargo on light weapons for a one-year period. Additionally, the Security Council welcomed the Federal Government's development of a new national security strategy, urging the central authorities to accelerate the plan's implementation, further define the Somali national security forces' composition, and identify capability gaps to assist their international partners in better addressing them. While many urban areas had been seized, Al-Shabaab still controlled many rural areas, where a number of their operatives disappeared into local communities in order to more effectively exploit any mistakes by the central authorities.\n\nIn October 2013, the U.S. Africa Command began establishing the Mogadishu Coordinating Cell in the Somali capital, which became fully operational in late December. The unit was formed at the request of the Somali government and AMISOM, who had approached U.S. Department of Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel in September about the possibility. It consists of a small team of fewer than five advisers, including planners and communicators between the Somali authorities and AMISOM. The cell is intended to provide consultative and planning support to the allied forces in order to enhance their capacity and to promote peace and security throughout the country and wider region.\nIn November 2013, a senior Ethiopian government official announced that Ethiopia's troops deployed in Somalia would soon join AMISOM, having already forwarded a request to do so. At the time, an estimated 8,000 Ethiopian soldiers were stationed in the country. The Somali Foreign Ministry welcomed the decision, asserting that the move would galvanize AMISOM's campaign against Al-Shabaab.\n\nFollowing the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 2124, which authorized the deployment of 4,000 additional troops to augment AMISOM's 22,126 strong force, Ethiopian troops formally joined the mission in January 2014. They are mandated to work alongside the Somali National Army, with responsibility for the allied forces' operations in the southern Gedo, Bakool and Bay regions. The Ethiopian troops represent AMISOM's sixth contingent after the Djibouti, Burundi, Sierra Leone, Kenya and Uganda units.\n\nIn January 2014, at an African Union Summit in Addis Ababa, President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud requested an extension of the UN Security Council's weapons purchasing mandate for Somalia after its March expiration. He indicated that the Somali defence forces required better military equipment and arms to more effectively combat militants. The following month, the UN Somalia and Eritrea Monitoring Group reported that systematic abuses by officials within the Somali government had allowed weapons to be diverted away from Somalia's security forces and into the hands of faction leaders and Al-Shabaab militants. The panel had observed various issues and concerns surrounding the management of weapons and ammunition stockpiles, including difficulties by monitors in accessing local weapons stockpiles and in obtaining information about the arms. The monitors also suggested that one key adviser to the president was involved in planning arms deliveries to Al-Shabaab and that shipments of weapons from Djibouti and Uganda could not be accounted for. Somali Chief of Army Dahir Adan Elmi made a pro forma denial of the allegations. He also indicated that a UN monitoring team had twice visited the government's weapons and ammunition storage facilities in Mogadishu, where it was shown the arms stockpiles for inspection and had reportedly expressed satisfaction. Elmi stated that the government had twice purchased weapons since the arms embargo on Somalia was partially lifted. Elmi also asserted that Al-Shabaab already possessed an adequate supply of weapons and mainly utilized explosive devices and sophisticated bombs.\n\nIn February 2014, a delegation led by Prime Minister of Somalia Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed met in Addis Ababa with Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn to discuss strengthening relations between the two countries. Ahmed commended Ethiopia's role in the ongoing peace and stabilization process in Somalia as well as its support against Al-Shabaab, and welcomed the Ethiopian military's decision to join AMISOM. Hailemariam Desalegn in turn pledged his administration's continued support for the peace and stabilization efforts in Somalia, as well as its preparedness to assist in initiatives aiming to build up the Somali security forces through experience-sharing and training. The meeting concluded with a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding agreeing to promote partnership and cooperation, including a cooperative agreement to develop the police force.\n\nOn 5 March 2014, the UN Security Council unanimously voted to extend the partial easing of the arms embargo on Somalia until 25 October of the year. The resolution permits the Somali government to purchase light weapons, with the stipulation that all member states must take steps to prevent the direct or indirect supply, transfer or sale of arms and military equipment to individuals or entities outside of the Somali security forces. The Somali government is also required to routinely report on the structural status of the military, as well as provide information on the extant infrastructure and protocols designed to ensure the military equipment's safe delivery, storage and maintenance.\n\nIn early March 2014, AMISOM, supported by Somali militias, launched another operation to remove Al-Shabaab from its remaining areas of control in southern Somalia. According to Prime Minister Abdiweli Sheikh Ahmed, the government subsequently launched stabilization efforts in the newly liberated areas, which included Rab Dhuure, Hudur, Wajid and Burdhubo. The Ministry of Defence was providing ongoing reassurance and security to the local residents, and supplying logistical and security support. Additionally, the Ministry of Interior was prepared to support and put into place programs to assist local administration and security. A Deputy Minister and several religious scholars were also dispatched to all four towns to coordinate and supervise the federal government's stabilization initiatives. By March 26, the allied forces had liberated ten towns within the month, including Qoryoley and El Buur. UN Special Representative for Somalia Nicholas Kay described the military advance as the most significant and geographically extensive offensive since AU troops began operations in 2007.\n\nIn August 2014, the Somali government-led Operation Indian Ocean was launched, which aimed to clean up the remaining insurgent-held pockets in the countryside. On 1 September 2014, a U.S. drone strike carried out as part of the broader mission killed Al-Shabaab leader Moktar Ali Zubeyr. U.S. authorities hailed the raid as a major symbolic and operational loss for Al-Shabaab, and the Somali government offered a 45-day amnesty to all moderate members of the militant group.\n\nAccording to Necrometrics, around 500,000 people are estimated to have been killed in Somalia since the start of the civil war in 1991. The Armed Conflict Location & Event Dataset estimates that 3,300 people were killed during the conflict in 2012, with the number of fatalities dropping slightly in 2013 to 3,150.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5443665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5443665", "title": "Strip search phone call scam", "text": "Strip search phone call scam\n\nThe strip search phone call scam is a series of incidents, mostly occurring in rural areas of the United States, that extended over a period of about twelve years, starting in 1992. The incidents involved a man calling a restaurant or grocery store, claiming to be a police officer and then convincing managers to conduct strip searches of female employees, and to perform other bizarre acts on behalf of \"the police\". The calls were most often placed to fast-food restaurants in small towns.\n\nOver 70 such occurrences were reported in 30 U.S. states, until an incident in 2004 in Mount Washington, Kentucky which led to the arrest of David Richard Stewart. Stewart was acquitted of all charges in the Mount Washington case. He was suspected of, but never charged with, having made other, similar scam calls. Police reported that the scam calls ended after Stewart's arrest.\n\nThere were numerous prior incidents in many states which followed the pattern of the fraudulent call to a McDonald's restaurant in Mount Washington, Kentucky. Most of the calls were made to fast-food restaurants, but a few were made to grocery stores.\n\nA caller who identified himself as a police officer or other authority figure would contact a manager or supervisor and would solicit their help in detaining a female employee or customer who was suspected of a crime. He would provide a description of the suspect, which the manager would recognize, and he would then ask the manager to search the suspected woman.\n\nSome notable incidents were:\n\nOn April 9, 2004, a call was made to a McDonald's restaurant in Mount Washington, Kentucky. According to assistant manager Donna Summers, the caller identified himself as a policeman, \"Officer Scott.\" The caller gave Summers a vague description of a slightly built young white woman with blonde hair, who was suspected of theft. Summers believed the description provided was that of Louise Ogborn, a woman who was currently on duty at the restaurant.\n\nThe \"police officer\" demanded that Ogborn be searched at the restaurant because no officers were available at the moment to handle such a minor matter. Ogborn was brought into an office and ordered to remove her clothes, which Summers then placed in a bag and took to her car, as instructed. Ogborn then put on an apron to partially cover herself. Kim Dockery, another assistant manager, was present at that time; Dockery believed she was there as a witness to the search.\n\nDockery left after an hour, and Summers told the caller that she needed to be working at the restaurant's counter. The caller then told Summers to bring in someone whom she trusted to assist with the investigation. Summers first asked Jason Bradley, one of the restaurant's cooks, to watch Ogborn. When the caller ordered Bradley to remove Ogborn's apron and describe her, Bradley refused but did not attempt to call the police. Summers then called her fiancé Walter Nix Jr., who went to the restaurant and took over from Summers. After being told that a police officer was on the phone, Nix can be seen obeying the caller's instructions for the next two hours.\n\nNix removed the apron that Ogborn was wearing and ordered her to dance and perform jumping jacks while she was naked. Nix then ordered her to insert her fingers into her vagina and expose it to him as part of the \"search.\" He also ordered her to sit on his lap and kiss him, and when she refused to do so, he spanked her until she promised to do it. The caller also spoke to Ogborn and demanded that she do as she was told or face worse punishment. Recalling the incident later, Ogborn said that, \"I was scared for my life.\"\n\nAfter Ogborn had been in the office for two and a half hours, she was ordered to perform oral sex on Nix. Summers returned to the office periodically, and during these times, Ogborn was instructed by the caller to cover herself with the apron. Nix became uneasy about what was happening. The caller then permitted him to leave on condition that Summers had to find someone to replace him. After Nix left, he called a friend and told him, \"I have done something terribly bad.\"\n\nWith Nix having left, and short on staff due to the dinnertime rush, Summers needed someone to take Nix's place in the office. She spotted Thomas Simms, the restaurant's maintenance man, who had stopped in at the restaurant for dessert. She told Simms to go into the office and watch Ogborn. Simms, however, refused to go along with the caller's demands. At this point, Summers became suspicious and decided to call a higher-level manager (whom the caller earlier had claimed to have been speaking to on another phone line).\n\nSpeaking with her boss, Summers discovered that he had been sleeping and had not spoken to any police officer. She realized that the call had been fraudulent. The caller then abruptly ended the call. An employee dialed *69 before another call could ring in, thus obtaining the number of the caller's telephone. Summers was now hysterical and began apologizing. Ogborn (shivering and wrapped in a blanket) was released from the office after three and a half hours. The police were called to the restaurant; they arrested Nix on a charge of sexual assault and began an investigation to find the perpetrator of the scam call.\n\nThe entire incident was recorded by a surveillance camera in the office. Summers watched the tape later that night and, according to her attorney, broke off her engagement with Nix.\n\nMount Washington police, after doing a simple word search on the Internet, quickly realized that this was only the latest in a long series of similar incidents that extended over a period of about 10 years. None of those incidents had continued as long, or with as many people involved, as the one in the Mount Washington McDonald's.\n\nAlthough their initial suspicion was that the call had originated from a pay phone near the McDonald's restaurant (from which the perpetrator could see both the police station and the restaurant), police later determined that the call originated from a supermarket pay phone in Panama City, Florida. Having learned that the call was made with an AT&T phone card and that the largest retailer of such cards was Walmart, they contacted the police in Panama City.\n\nThe Panama City police informed the Mount Washington police that Detective Flaherty in Massachusetts was already conducting an investigation. Several similar scam calls had been placed to Boston-area restaurants, and Flaherty had already pulled surveillance camera footage from a Walmart in Panama City. Following Flaherty's lead, the Mount Washington police used the serial number of the phone card to find out that it had been purchased from a different Walmart than the Walmart that sold the card used for calls to Massachusetts restaurants.\n\nUsing the records of the Panama City Walmart, which showed the cash register and the time of purchase of the phone card, Mount Washington police were able to find surveillance camera footage of the purchaser of the card. The Massachusetts investigation had gone cold when their surveillance video failed to show the purchaser—the cameras had been trained on the store's parking lot and not on the cash registers.\n\nThe purchaser in the Panama City video was wearing a correctional officer's uniform of the kind used by Corrections Corporation of America, a private security firm. Videos and still photographs from the two Walmarts were compared, and the same man was seen entering and exiting the Massachusetts Walmart at the time when a phone card was purchased there. Police used these images to produce front-and-back composite images of the suspect. Subsequent queries directed to the private security firm's human resources department led to the identification of the phone card buyer as David R. Stewart – a married man with five children – who was then arrested.\n\nDuring his questioning by police, Stewart insisted he never had bought a phone card, but detectives found one in his home that had been used to call nine restaurants in the past year—including a call to a Burger King in Idaho Falls, Idaho on the same day when that restaurant's manager was reportedly duped by a scam call. Police also found in Stewart's home dozens of applications for police department jobs, hundreds of police magazines, as well as police-style uniforms, guns, and holsters. This was thought to indicate that the suspect had fantasized about being a police officer. \n\nStewart was extradited to Kentucky to be tried on charges of impersonating a police officer and solicitation of sodomy. If convicted, Stewart faced up to 15 years in prison. On October 31, 2006, he was acquitted of all charges. Both the defense and the prosecution attorneys stated that a lack of direct evidence may have affected the jury's decision, which found him not guilty. He remained a suspect in similar cases throughout the United States. Police stated later that since Stewart's arrest the scam calls had stopped.\n\nLouise Ogborn, the victim, underwent therapy and medication to address post-traumatic stress disorder depression. She abandoned her plans to attend the University of Louisville, where she had anticipated becoming a pre-med student. In an interview with ABC News, she said that after her abuse she \"felt dirty\" and had difficulty making and maintaining friendships because she wouldn't \"allow anyone to get too close to her\".\n\nDonna Summers ended her engagement with Nix soon after the incident. She was fired from McDonald's for violating corporate policies prohibiting strip-searches and prohibiting anyone not employed by McDonald's from entering the restaurant's office. She entered an Alford plea to a charge of unlawful imprisonment (a misdemeanor) and received one year of probation. She was not charged with any sex-related crime.\n\nKim Dockery was transferred to another location. Walter Nix pleaded guilty to sexual abuse, sexual misconduct and unlawful imprisonment in his trial. The judge agreed to a plea deal for Nix in exchange for his testimony against David Stewart. \nBecause he was the principal perpetrator of the beating and had engaged in the sex act, he received a five-year prison sentence.\n\nThree years after the incident, still undergoing therapy, Louise Ogborn sued McDonald's for $200 million for failing to protect her during her ordeal. Her grounds for the suit were:\n\n\nDonna Summers also sued McDonald's, asking for $50 million, for failing to warn her about the previous hoaxes.\n\nMcDonald's based its defense on four points:\n\nThe civil trial began September 10, 2007, and ended October 5, 2007, when a jury awarded Ogborn $5 million in punitive damages and $1.1 million in compensatory damages and expenses. Summers was awarded $1 million in punitive damages and $100,000 in compensatory damages.\n\nThe jury decided that McDonald's and the unnamed caller were each 50% at fault for the abuse to which the victim was subjected. McDonald's and its attorneys were sanctioned for withholding evidence pertinent to the outcome of the trial. In November 2008, McDonald's also was ordered to pay $2.4 million in legal fees to plaintiffs' lawyers.\n\nOn November 20, 2009, the Kentucky Court of Appeals upheld the jury's verdict but reduced the punitive damages award to Summers to $400,000. McDonald's then appealed to the Kentucky Supreme Court. While its petition was pending in 2010, Ogborn settled with McDonald's for $1.1 million and abandoned her claim for punitive damages. After the court decisions, McDonald's revised its manager-training program to emphasize awareness of scam phone calls and protection of employees' rights.\n\nThe Mount Washington McDonald's scam has been the basis of four media depictions:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7815059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7815059", "title": "Sunday Bloody Sunday", "text": "Sunday Bloody Sunday\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" is a song by Irish rock band U2. It is the opening track from their 1983 album \"War\" and was released as the album's third single on 21 March 1983 in Germany and the Netherlands. \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" is noted for its militaristic drumbeat, harsh guitar, and melodic harmonies. One of U2's most overtly political songs, its lyrics describe the horror felt by an observer of the Troubles in Northern Ireland, mainly focusing on the Bloody Sunday incident in Derry where British troops shot and killed unarmed civil rights protesters, bystanders and children. At the same time, the lyrics reject hate and revenge as a response, as noted in the line \"There's many lost, but tell me who has won.\" Along with \"New Year's Day,\" the song helped U2 reach a wider listening audience. It was generally well received by critics on the album's release.\n\nThe song has remained a staple of U2's live concerts. During its earliest performances, the song created controversy. Lead singer Bono reasserted the song's anti-sectarian-violence message to his audience for many years. Today, it is considered one of U2's signature songs, and is one of the band's most performed tracks. Critics rate it among the best political protest songs, and it has been covered by over a dozen artists. It was named the 272nd-greatest song by \"Rolling Stone\" on their list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.\"\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" grew from a guitar riff and lyric written by the Edge in 1982. While newlyweds Bono and Ali Hewson honeymooned in Jamaica, the Edge worked in Ireland on music for the band's upcoming album. Following an argument with his girlfriend, and a period of doubt in his own song-writing abilities, the Edge—\"feeling depressed... channelled [his] fear and frustration and self-loathing into a piece of music.\" This early draft did not yet have a title or chorus melody, but did contain a structural outline and theme. After Bono had reworked the lyrics, the band recorded the song at Windmill Lane Studios in Dublin. During the sessions, producer Steve Lillywhite encouraged drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. to use a click track, but Mullen was firmly against the idea. A chance meeting with Andy Newmark of Sly & the Family Stone – a drummer who used a click track religiously – changed Mullen's mind. The opening drum pattern soon developed into the song's hook. A local violinist, Steve Wickham, approached the Edge one morning at a bus stop and asked if U2 had any need for a violin on their next album. In the studio for only half a day, Wickham's electric violin became the final instrumental contribution to the song.\n\nThe direct impetus for the lyrics was an encounter with IRA supporters in New York City. As a promotional gimmick, U2 manager Paul McGuinness had made arrangements for the band to appear in the 1982 St. Patrick's Day parade. However, he later found that there was a possibility that Bobby Sands, an IRA hunger striker who had starved to death the previous year, would be the parade's honorary marshal. As they felt that the IRA's tactics were prolonging the fighting in Northern Ireland, McGuinness and the band members mutually decided they should withdraw from the parade. McGuinness met with one of the parade's organizers in a New York bar to arrange the cancellation, and ended up in a heated debate about the IRA. McGuinness recalled, \"He kept telling me to keep my voice down. The place was full of New York policemen - Irish cops - and he thought I was going to get us killed.\"\n\nDrummer Mullen said of the song in 1983:\n\nWe're into the politics of people, we're not into politics. Like you talk about Northern Ireland, 'Sunday Bloody Sunday,' people sort of think, 'Oh, that time when 13 Catholics were shot by British soldiers'; that's not what the song is about. That's an incident, the most famous incident in Northern Ireland and it's the strongest way of saying, 'How long? How long do we have to put up with this?' I don't care who's who – Catholics, Protestants, whatever. You know people are dying every single day through bitterness and hate, and we're saying why? What's the point? And you can move that into places like El Salvador and other similar situations – people dying. Let's forget the politics, let's stop shooting each other and sit around the table and talk about it... There are a lot of bands taking sides saying politics is crap, etc. Well, so what! The real battle is people dying, that's the real battle.\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" is played at a tempo of 103 beats per minute in a 4/4 time signature. The song opens with a militaristic drumbeat and electric violin part; the aggressive snare drum rhythm closely resembles a beat used to keep a military band in step. The distinctive drum sound was achieved by recording Mullen's drumwork at the base of a staircase, producing a more natural reverb. It is followed by the Edge's repeating arpeggios (see notation at left). The riff, which follows a Bm–D–G chord progression, establishes the minor chord territory of the piece. As the song progresses, the lyrics and guitar become more furious. The guitar riff has been described as the \"bone-crushing arena-rock riff of the decade\" by \"Rolling Stone\". A bass drum kick on every beat provides the musical foundation until the first chorus, when Adam Clayton's bass guitar enters.\n\nIn contrast to the violent nature of the verses, the emergence of major chords creates a feeling of hope during Bono's \"How long, how long must we sing this song?\" refrain. During the chorus, the Edge's backing vocals further develop this tread, using a harmonic imitative echo. The snare drum is absent from this section, and the guitar parts are muted. This part of the song deviates musically from the raw aggression seen in the song's verses and gives the song a more uplifting structure. Bono once commented that \"love is...a central theme\" of \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\"\n\nThe band have said the lyrics refer to the events of both Bloody Sunday in 1972 and Bloody Sunday in 1920, but are not specifically about either event. The song takes the standpoint of someone horrified by the cycle of violence in the province. Bono rewrote the Edge's initial lyrics, attempting to contrast the two events with Easter Sunday, but he has said that the band were too inexperienced at the time to fully realise that goal, noting that \"it was a song whose eloquence lay in its harmonic power rather than its verbal strength.\"\n\nEarly versions opened with the line \"Don't talk to me about the rights of the IRA, UDA.\" U2's bassist, Adam Clayton, recalls that better judgment led to the removal of such a politically charged line, and that the song's \"viewpoint became very humane and non-sectarian...which, is the only responsible position.\" The chosen opening line, \"I can't believe the news today\" crystallises the prevailing response, especially among young people, to the violence in Northern Ireland during the 1970s and 1980s. In successive stanzas, the lyrics paraphrase religious text from Matthew (\"mother's children; brothers, sisters torn apart\") and bring a twist to 1 Corinthians (\"we eat and drink while tomorrow \"they\" die\", instead of \"let us eat and drink; for tomorrow \"we\" die\"). The song finishes with a call for the Irish to stop fighting each other, and \"claim the victory Jesus won...on [a] Sunday bloody Sunday.\"\n\nU2 were aware when they decided to record \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" that its lyrics could be misinterpreted as sectarian, and possibly place them in danger. Some of the Edge's original lyrics explicitly spoke out against violent rebels, but were omitted to protect the group. Even without these lyrics, some listeners still considered it to be a rebel song—even one which glorifies the events of the two Bloody Sundays to which the lyrics refer.\n\nCommercially, the single had its biggest impact in the Netherlands, where it reached number 3 on the national charts. In the US, the song gained significant album-oriented rock radio airplay, and together with the earlier \"New Year's Day\" helped expose U2 to a mainstream American rock audience.\n\nCritical reception to the song was positive. In the Irish magazine \"Hot Press\", Liam Mackey wrote that \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" \"takes the widescreen view...a powerful riff and machine-gun drumming [is] crisscrossed by skipping violin.\" Denise Sullivan commented for \"Allmusic\" that Mullen's opening drumwork \"helps set the tone for the unforgiving, take-no-prisoners feel of the song, as well as for the rest of the album.\"\n\nIn 2010, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" 272nd on its list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.\" In 2006, \"Q\" named \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" the 18th-greatest song of the 1980s. The staff of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame selected \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" as one of 500 Songs that Shaped Rock and Roll. The \"New Statesman\" listed it as one of the Top 20 Political Songs, and similarly, \"Time\" named it one of the Top 10 Protest Songs.\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" has been performed more than 600 times by U2. It was first heard by a live audience in December 1982 in Glasgow, Scotland, on a twenty-one show \"Pre-War Tour.\" The band were particularly nervous about playing the song in Belfast, Northern Ireland. Introducing the song there at the Maysfield Leisure Centre, Bono stated \"It's not a rebel song.\", attempted to further clarify this point by reciting the entire second verse (\"Broken bottles under children's feet ...\"), and added as a final note, \"If you don't like it, you let us know.\" The crowd overwhelmingly enjoyed the song; the Edge recalls that \"the place went nuts, it drew a really positive reaction.\", also saying that \"We thought a lot about the song before we played it in Belfast and Bono told the audience that if they didn't like it then we'd never play it again. Out of the 3,000 people in the hall about three walked out. I think that says a lot about the audience's trust in us.\" The band remained apprehensive, however. Even by the song's sixth performance, Bono was introducing the song with the statement \"This song is \"not\" a rebel song.\"\n\nThroughout 1983's War Tour, Bono continued to reassure audiences that \"This song is not a rebel song, this song is 'Sunday Bloody Sunday'\" highlighting the non-partisan intentions of the lyrics. The live performances on this tour featured a routine during which Bono would set a white flag in the front of the stage while the band vamped three chords—B minor, D major, and G major. (though the band traditionally tune their instruments down a half step so the chords are B flat minor, D flat and G Flat). As the band vamped, Bono would sing \"no more!\" with the audience. These performances were highly effective with U2's audience (at the time, U2 were most popular as a college rock act). Live performances of the song subsequently appeared on their 1983 live album \"Under a Blood Red Sky\" and their concert film \"\". In the Unforgettable Fire Tour of 1984 and 1985, \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" continued to be a prominent midpoint of each U2 concert—as did the \"no more!\" interlude. Along with a performance of \"Bad,\" the song was performed at Live Aid in July 1985.\n\nAs U2 reached new levels of fame in 1987 with \"The Joshua Tree\", \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" continued to be a focal point of concerts. Some performances featured slower, more contemplative versions of the song; other concerts saw the wilder, more violent version. This tour marked the first time \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was played in Northern Ireland since 1982, and it has not been performed there since.\n\nThe 1988 rockumentary \"Rattle and Hum\" includes a particularly renowned version of the song, recorded on 8 November 1987 at McNichols Sports Arena in Denver, Colorado. On this version Bono's mid-song rant angrily and emphatically condemns the Remembrance Day Bombing that had occurred earlier that same day in the Northern Irish town of Enniskillen:\n\nAfter the Joshua Tree Tour, Bono was heard saying the band might never play the song again, because the song was \"made real\" with the performance in Denver, and it could never be matched again. Following their original intent, \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was not played during any of the forty-seven shows on the Lovetown Tour in 1989. The song reappeared for a brief period during the Zoo TV Tour, and late during the second half of PopMart Tour (1997–1998), U2 played an emotional concert in war-ravaged Sarajevo that included a solo performance of the song by the Edge. \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was subsequently played live in this style until the end of the tour in March 1998.\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was played at every concert on the 2001 Elevation and 2005–2006 Vertigo tours. Performances in 2001 frequently included parts of Bob Marley's \"Get Up, Stand Up\" and \"Johnny Was\". A memorable mid-song message referencing the Omagh bombing of 1998 (\"Turn this song into a prayer!\") is captured on the live DVD \"\". In concerts in New York City after the September 11, 2001 attacks, the \"no more!\" interlude was replaced by Bono holding an American flag.\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was used during the Vertigo Tour of 2005 and 2006, often alongside \"Bullet the Blue Sky\" and \"Love and Peace or Else\" as a trio of politically driven songs performed during the middle part of the band's set. Bono extended the \"no more!\" interlude to explain a headband he had donned in the previous song. The headband depicted the word \"coexist\" (written to depict a crescent, a Star of David, and a Christian cross). The Coexist symbol is trademarked in the United States by an LLP in Indiana, and the original artwork was created in 2001 by a Polish artist. As with the 2001 shows, the Vertigo tour saw the song applied to subjects further afield than The Troubles in Northern Ireland. During 2006 Australian shows, in Brisbane, Bono asked for Australian Terrorism suspect David Hicks to be brought home and tried under Australian laws. In subsequent Australian concerts he dedicated the song to the victims of the 2002 Bali bombingswhere 88 of the fatalities were Australianssaying 'This is your song now!'. The song was also performed at every concert on the U2 360° Tour, paying tribute to the 2009 Iranian election protests on each occasion by projecting scenes from the protests and Persian writing in green on the video screen.\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" has been played as the opening song at shows on the Joshua Tree Tour 2017.\n\nAlthough a promotional music video had not been produced for the original release, the band used footage from a 5 June 1983 live performance filmed for the concert film \"\" to promote the song. Directed by Gavin Taylor, the video displays Bono's use of a white flag during performances of the song. The video highlights the intensity and emotion felt by many audience members during U2's concerts, while the rainy, torch-lit setting in Colorado's Red Rocks Amphitheatre further adds to the atmosphere. In 2004, \"Rolling Stone\" cited the performance as one \"50 Moments that Changed the History of Rock and Roll\" and noted that \"the sight of Bono singing the anti-violence anthem 'Sunday Bloody Sunday' while waving a white flag through crimson mist (created by a combination of wet weather, hot lights and the illumination of those crags) became the defining image of U2's warrior-rock spirit and—shown in heavy rotation on MTV—broke the band nationwide.\"\n\nThe album version of \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was originally included on \"War\", but it can also be heard on a number of promotional releases, including the compilations \"The Best of 1980-1990\" and \"U218 Singles\". Several live versions have been released; the video available on \"Live at Red Rocks: Under a Blood Red Sky\" is from a performance at Red Rocks Amphitheatre in June 1983, but the version on the live album \"Under a Blood Red Sky\" is from a performance on August 20, 1983 during the Rockpalast Open Air music festival at the Lorelei, (West) Germany. Audio from the Sarajevo concert of 1997 is featured as a b-side on 1997's single \"If God Will Send His Angels.\" The song also appears on \"Rattle and Hum\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"Live from Paris\", \"U2 3D\", \"U2 360° at the Rose Bowl\" and in the closing credits of the 2002 TV film \"Bloody Sunday\". The only concert films that \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" does not appear on are \"\" and \"\".\n\nIn 2007, The Roots covered \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" in a medley with \"Pride (In the Name of Love)\" for an NAACP dinner honouring Bono. While the band played the song, Black Thought rapped lines from the band's own \"False Media\" and bits of Edwin Starr's \"War\".\n\nIn 2008, Jay-Z sampled \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" in a version of \"Heart of the City\" performed at the Glastonbury Festival. During a version of \"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" performed by the band at the 2009 MTV Europe Music Awards, Jay-Z improvised lyrics over the breakdown in the song before including a snippet of \"Get Up, Stand Up.\"\n\n\"Sunday Bloody Sunday\" was commercially released throughout most of Europe in support of U2's album \"War\". Its cover art is the same as that of \"Two Hearts Beat as One,\" except on the Japan release. The B-side on the single, \"Endless Deep,\" is one of the few U2 songs that features bassist Adam Clayton singing.\n\n\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47449515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47449515", "title": "Teatro Dante (Sansepolcro)", "text": "Teatro Dante (Sansepolcro)\n\nTeatro Dante (\"also called Cinema Teatro Dante\") is an Italian theatre in Sansepolcro, a town in Tuscany, Italy, in the province of Arezzo.\nThe theatre was inaugurated on September 1, 1836 and was originally known as the Royal Theatre Dante (\"Regio Teatro Dante\"). The premiere performance was Vincenzo Bellini's opera La sonnambula (\"The sleepwalker\").\nThe building, remained the property of the Accademia dei Risorti ( \"literally \"Academy of the Resurrected\"\" ) until today.\nThe building began as a simple theater for the people, nowadays it is also a movie theater, not precluding a theater season with comedies, operettas and concerts in a good level.\n\nThe news reached the present day are fragmentary, but carefully preserved.\nWe know that the project was commissioned by Cosimo III de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany in September 1674 to promote culture in the provinces of his grand duchy. So, he settled 1500 scudi d'oro for the construction of a large room then made it a theatre, to keep the youth well trained and better eloquent to serve the prince. The first name was Teatro della Fortuna (\"the fortune theatre\"), and was left under management to a local association, \"Accademia degli Sbalzati\", led by the poet Pietro Gherardi. The first theatre was built entirely in wood. In 1727 the academy ceases to exist. From the ashes of the old one, a new association was born with the name of academy of the nobles who will reevaluate the structure and it will enhance the activities.\n\nThe activity of the theatre will proceed regularly until 1832 when the last known association will born after the merge of the two local academies: \"The Nobles\" and \"The Resurrected\", that will form the Academy of the Nobles Resurrected. To witness this union the new blazon of the association is an olive tree, cut at the lower end with new branches on the sides that are growing back, that which symbolizes the definitive rebirth of this association. The academy will not be the only one to be renewed. The old theater, now dilapidated and in poor condition, will be demolished in favor of a new building, built in stone in front of the old theater. Work will begin in 1833, a year after the birth of the new academy, led by the florentine Francesco Leoni and continued until August 1836. On September 1, the new theater called royal Dante theatre was inaugurated with La Sonnambula by Vincenzo Bellini. The name of the theater was chosen to pay tribute to one of the most important poets of Italy, the florentine Dante Alighieri.\n\nOver the years, the structure adapts to the times starting to show the first film shows in the 50s, after the Second World War. After those tragic years, the Academy resumed full control of the theater, valuing it as a movie theater. For this step, very important for the history of the theater, we must not forget the role of Luigi Monti, the Regia Aeronautica pilot in World War II. \"The Colonel\" (\"as it was called by everyone\") worked hard for the complete reorganization of the theater and the academy, adapting it to current standards.\nIt will transform the academy in a society becoming the director-general in new business. The new company will bring as name \"Academy of Risorti S.r.L.\" (literally \"Academy of the Resurrected ltd.\"). Until his death, Monti cured with love and passion the redevelopment of film programming and theater shows. From 1975 to 1994, they were carried out the first restoration of the modern age, driven by engineers Vittorio Landi and Perugino Perugini. Among the work carried out there is the renewal of the wooden chairs, replaced by red velvet chairs, the restoration of the paintings and interior decorations, the renewal of the floor of the stalls and its main structures.\n\nTo remain open, today the theater Dante plays an assiduous work as a movie theater, in order to propose periodically events and other kind of shows (\"like operettas, concertos and theatre season, and other live events\"). As a movie theater, uses the same policy, trying to offer various types of entertainment for all categories of users. The cinema was one of the first in the province in the 90s install the multi-channel digital audio, offering to the audience the sounds of Dolby Digital and DTS. The digitization process ends in 2011, when it was purchased the professional digital projector, that can offer to the audiences, 3D feature presentation movies and other stereoscopic contents.\n\nThanks to assiduous care, the theater space, even of medium size, has come to this day still intact with its neo-classical style, which makes it one of the most beautiful historic theaters in Tuscany. The theater is built according to the specifications of the nineteenth century Italian theaters, the main architectural features are the construction of the hall with a plant horseshoe, the elimination of the bleachers in favor of in favor of more box tiers, and the enlargement of the stage in favor of the new perspective wings. In the theater there are a total of 400 seats, divided in 190 seats in the stalls and in four tiers of boxes. There is also a small orchestra pit. Both the stalls that the stage has a little slope that is vanished in the area of pit.\n\nThe academy of resurrected, as we know it nowadays, was established in 1953, with the aim of making management activities of theaters, cinemas, and other opportunities for entertainment and education. The component of the Academy are formed mostly by the old nobles family present in Sansepolcro. Over the years, academics have changed several times, acquiring or disposing their shareholdings in the company. A famous member of the academy was the family Buitoni.\nThe statute of the academy expressed clearly that the company was created with the same intent of its ancient founders, and that any proceeds obtained will be invested to support the running costs and adapt the structures to the times. No academic earns money from the theater and its activities.\n\nThe theater Dante underwent natural transformation of small theaters Italian born largely in the Renaissance, which have been transformed from theater \"to multi-purpose halls\". During the renaissance, the nobles of Sansepolcro manage this theater for personal prestige and to be able to present artistic and cultural performances to the entire population. It followed, as usual, that every noble had his reserved seat, away from ordinary people, according to his shareholding in association. The most prominent members were sitting in the most central seats, the others, hand in hand in the more laterals. The nobles didn't sat in the stalls, but they were on the upper floors, in the boxes. Originally it seems were not present even the chairs in the stalls, and that some performances were paid exclusively by the nobility to exercise more prestige in town. Ordinary people, in the early years it seems that should bring home a chair, if they wanted to sit. To remember the tradition of the boxes, still it reserves the \"academic box\" \"the number 8 box on the first floor\" that however isn't the royal box (\"called also the central box, the number 9 in second tier of boxes\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2604679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604679", "title": "Ted Serios", "text": "Ted Serios\n\nTheodore \"Ted\" Judd Serios (November 27, 1918 – December 30, 2006) was a Chicago bellhop known for his production of \"thoughtographs\" on Polaroid film. He claimed these were produced using psychic powers. Serios' psychic claims were bolstered by the endorsement of a Denver-based psychiatrist, Jule Eisenbud (1908–1999), who published a book named \"The World of Ted Serios: \"Thoughtographic\" Studies of an Extraordinary Mind\" (1967) arguing that Serios' purported psychic abilities were genuine. However, professional photographers and skeptics have argued that Serios and his photographs were fraudulent.\n\nSerios was an unemployed bellhop when his claims that he had the ability to put images on film with his mind came to the attention of Jule Eisenbud. He was tested by Eisenbud at Denver during a period of three years. Serios usually held a small cylinder or tube he called a \"gizmo\" up to the lens of an instant camera, which was then pointed at his forehead and the shutter released. He would often be drunk, or at least have been drinking, when he produced his photographs.\n\nSerios' images were most often blank or black. Occasionally, a fuzzy image would be seen that could be interpreted in many different ways (cf. pareidolia), but on rare occasions a relatively clear and identifiable image showed up although often appearing surrounded by dark areas on the film. On some occasions, his photos appeared to be distorted, or altered versions of real places or images, e.g., one such photo seemed to be of Eisenbud's ranch showing the barn as a different structure to the reality. Another photograph depicted part of a building identified later as a hangar belonging to the Air Division of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, however in the photograph there was a misspelling \"CAINADAIN\" for \"CANADIAN\" on the imaged sign. Eisenbud attempted to prove that previously unidentified photographs were actually of the surface of Ganymede. In Eisenbud's own words, \"Unfortunately, I couldn't get an astronomer or optical scientist to agree.\"\n\nAccording to Eisenbud, \"Ted Serios exhibits a behavior pathology with many character disorders. He does not abide by the laws and customs of our society. He ignores social amenities and has been arrested many times. His psychopathic and sociopathic personality manifests itself in many other ways. He does not exhibit self-control and will blubber, wail and bang his head on the floor when things are not going his way.\" Serios was described as an alcoholic.\n\nIn an article in the October 1967 issue of the magazine \"Popular Photography\", Charlie Reynolds and David Eisendrath, both amateur magicians and professional photographers, claimed to have exposed Serios as a fraud after spending a week-end with him and Eisenbud. Reynolds and Eisendrath said they spotted Serios slipping something into the tube that Serios claimed he needed to help him concentrate. They surmised this was a picture of something that the camera would take an image of, but which Serios would claim came from his mind rather than his hand. Robert Todd Carroll later wrote \"after the exposure he remained virtually unheard from for the past 30 years.\"\n\nIn 1968, W. A. H. Rushton a Professor of physiology and President of the Society for Psychical Research rejected any paranormal interpretation of the photographs. He suggested that it was light that formed the photographs from a luminous picture placed in front of the camera lens hidden in the 'gizmo'. Rushton successfully replicated the Serios phenomenon by holding a little reflecting prism that contained a microfilm picture against the camera lens.\n\nJames Randi, stage magician and noted scientific sceptic, took an interest in investigating Serios. Randi claimed Serios used \"a simple handheld optical device\" to perform his photographic trickery. Randi wrote he replicated the trick of Serios on a live television show in New York and Eisenbud was \"flabbergasted\". According to Terence Hines:\n\nSerios would use what he called a \"gizmo,\" a tube of paper placed against the camera lens. He said this helped him to focus his mental energy and direct it toward the film. He also used something he didn't tell anyone about—- a tiny tube about one inch long and one-half inch in diameter. This tube had a tiny magnifying lens at one end. In the other end one could insert a piece cut from a standard 35mm slide. Lined up properly, this device projected the image on the cut piece of transparency onto the film of the Polaroid camera. The device was small enough to be concealed in the palm of the hand, so it could be used even when the larger paper \"gizmo\" wasn't around to conceal it.\nIn an article in \"New Scientist\" titled \"The Chance of a Lifetime\" (24 March 2007), an interview appears with the noted mathematician and magician Persi Diaconis. During the interview Diaconis mentioned that Martin Gardner had paid him to watch Ted Serios perform, during which Diaconis claimed that he caught Serios sneaking a small marble with a photograph on it into the little tube attached to the front of the camera he used. \"It was,\" Diaconis said, \"a trick.\" Gardner wrote that \"the parapsychologists who once took Ted Serios and others like him seriously would have been spared their embarrassments had they known anything about magic.\"\n\nThoughtography was the premise of \"The X-files\" episode \"Unruhe\". \"The X-Files\" producer Chris Carter signed a deal to base an entire movie on Dr. Eisenbud's book. He was also featured and interviewed in an episode of \"Arthur C. Clarke's World of Strange Powers\" in 1985.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27588197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27588197", "title": "The Notorious IBE", "text": "The Notorious IBE\n\nThe Notorious IBE is an international Hiphop and Urban dance festival in Heerlen, The Netherlands. Between 1998 and 2005 the festival took place at Nighttown in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. In 2008 the festival moved to the city of Heerlen in the southern province of Limburg (Netherlands).\n\nThe Notorious IBE is a festival catering to both insiders and outsiders of the culture and offering the visitots a unique blend of music, dance and cultural programs.\n\nEach IBE edition comes to life through “a collaboration of friends and partners”. These “friends and partners” curate their own programs, invite their own artists, present their own projects and cater to their own following. The result is a long weekend of 50-60 programs varying from music performances, dance battles, dance shows, workshops, talkshows, film, photography and art. In recent years the number of typical festival facilities such as a culture market, creative space and a festival food court has been growing. Making the IBE a unique event in the worldwide Hiphop and urban dance world.\n\nThe 15th edition of The Notorious IBE takes place at 1,2 August in the city of Heerlen. On the 31st of July the festival unofficially kicks of with a Block Jam and pre parties in the city center.\n\nIn 2013, IBE organized a Seven2Smoke Winners Edition with Previous Seven2Smoke winners. Winner included; Ronnie,Kareem, Mijo, Menno, Niek, Blond and Gravity. Bboy Issei from Japan was invited as the UK B-Boy Championships Seven2Smoke winner.\n\nAfter 25 minutes the following bboys were tied with 3 smokes, or wins: Ronnie, Mijo, Menno, Niek and Issei. A tie-break was necessary to determine a winner. After beating all his opponents, bboy Issei () was crowned the winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "3644661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3644661", "title": "The Scarlet Empress", "text": "The Scarlet Empress\n\nThe Scarlet Empress is a 1934 American historical drama film made by Paramount Pictures about the life of Catherine the Great. It was directed and produced by Josef von Sternberg from a screenplay by Eleanor McGeary, loosely based on the diary of Catherine arranged by Manuel Komroff.\n\nEven though substantial historical liberties are taken, the film is viewed positively by modern critics. \"The Scarlet Empress\" is particularly notable for its attentive lighting and the expressionist art design von Sternberg creates for the Russian palace.\n\nThe film stars Marlene Dietrich as Catherine, supported by John Davis Lodge, Sam Jaffe, Louise Dresser, and C. Aubrey Smith. Dietrich's daughter Maria Riva plays Catherine as a child.\n\nSophia Frederica (Marlene Dietrich) is the daughter of a minor German prince and an ambitious mother. She is brought to Russia by Count Alexei (John Davis Lodge) at the behest of Empress Elizabeth (Louise Dresser) to marry her nephew, Grand Duke Peter (played as a half-wit by Sam Jaffe in his film debut). The overbearing Elizabeth renames her Catherine and reinforces the demand the new bride issue an heir to the throne.\n\nUnhappy in her marriage, Catherine finds solace with the womanizing Alexei, first and foremost a paramour of the much-older Elizabeth. Rebuffed at this discovery, she takes lovers among the Russian Army to court its favor. When the old Empress dies seventeen years into their marriage, Peter ascends to the Russian throne and takes steps against his wife. Soon Catherine plots and exercises a coup, beginning a reign as Empress that will leave her known to history as \"Catherine the Great\".\n\nJosef von Sternberg described \"The Scarlet Empress\" as \"a relentless excursion into style\". The historical accuracy is sacrificed for the sake of \"a visual splendor verging on madness\". To show Russia as backward, anachronistic and in need of reform, the imperial court was set at the Moscow Kremlin rather than in Saint Petersburg, a more Europeanized city. The royal palaces are represented as made of wood and full of religious sculptures (in fact, there is no free-standing religious sculpture in the Orthodox tradition). Pete Babusch from Switzerland created hundreds of gargoyle-like sculptures of male figures \"crying, screaming, or in throes of misery\" which \"line the hallways, decorate the royal thrones, and even appear on serving dishes\". This resulted in \"the most extreme of all of the cinematic representations of Russia\". In film critic Robin Wood's words:\n\n\"The Scarlet Empress\" was one of the last mainstream Hollywood motion pictures to be released before the Hays Code was strictly enforced, and the film depicts topless women being tortured and burnt at the stake. \"The Scarlet Empress\" remains one of Marlene Dietrich's most frank and suggestive films, portraying Russia's future empress Catherine the Great first as a wide eyed innocent, quickly becoming a sexually-hungry dominatrix. The film is filled with erotic images and motifs.\n\n"}
{"id": "43055990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43055990", "title": "Viscera Film Festival", "text": "Viscera Film Festival\n\nThe Viscera Film Festival was an annual Los Angeles based horror film festival for women filmmakers. Originally an online festival, Viscera was founded in 2007 by Shannon Lark and Heidi Honeycutt. In July 2010, the festival became a live event with screenings held at the Egyptian Theatre in Hollywood. All of the screenings were short films. After the Egyptian Theatre premiere, Viscera toured their yearly film lineup at events held around the world for the rest of the year. The Scream Queen Filmfest Tokyo was a subsidiary festival. \nThe Inspiration Award was founded in 2012 to honor women filmmakers.\n"}
