{"id": "22991885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22991885", "title": "Alexander Allain", "text": "Alexander Allain\n\nAlexander Peter Allain (June 27, 1920 – January 5, 1994) became one of the United States’ most adamant fighters for the freedom of expression though his work as a lawyer and library advocate. His career was devoted to securing First Amendment rights for libraries.\n\nAllain is recognized as one of \"American Libraries\"' “100 of the Most Important Leaders we had in the 20th Century” for being “a true visionary” in his battle to uphold the First Amendment; his work with the American Library Association (ALA) included helping with the creation of the Office for Intellectual Freedom in 1967 and cofounding the Freedom to Read Foundation.\n\nBorn in Louisiana, as a young man, Allain served as a liaison officer in the French Navy during World War II, stationed in Casablanca. After serving time in the navy, he received his law degree from Loyola University New Orleans in 1942. In 1953, Allain was appointed to the St. Mary Parish Library Board of Control in Louisiana. It was during this time that the United States feared communism and scrutinized libraries for harboring any information that could potentially influence the public opinion. This was an influential time in Allain’s life as he went on to make intellectual freedom cases his life’s work.\n\nAllain was very involved in the Louisiana Library Association (LLA) as well as the ALA. In 1964, he was the first chair of the Louisiana Library Association Intellectual Freedom Committee, and he continued to stay active in the state association throughout his life. He was instrumental in the formation of the Council of Louisiana Trustees (COLT), which worked to organize library trustee activity in Louisiana. He also served in numerous other capacities such as chair and vice-chair of the LLA Trustees Section.\n\nOne of Allain’s biggest contributions to fight for intellectual freedom within libraries was the work he did with ALA’s Office of Intellectual Freedom to co-founded the Freedom to Read Foundation (FTRF) in 1969. Based on the Freedom to Read Foundation Web site, the organization was founded as “the American Library Association’s response to its members’ interest in having adequate means to support and defend librarians whose positions are jeopardized because of their resistance to abridgments of the First Amendment; and to set legal precedent for the freedom to read on behalf of all people”.\n\nThe FTRF has four core purposes which include: “Promoting and protecting the freedom of speech and of the press; protecting the public’s right to access to information and materials stored in the nation’s libraries; safeguarding libraries’ right to disseminate all materials contained in their collections; and supporting libraries and librarians in their defense of the First Amendment rights by supplying them with legal counsel or other means to secure it”. The services that the FTRF provide to carry out their mission and purpose involve raising funds through grants and disseminating this monetary aid to people and institutions that need the assistance in court proceedings; aside from providing monetary assistance, the FTRF is something involved directly in the cases.\n\nThe FTRF was set up in conjunction with the ALA’s office of Intellectual Freedom instead of as a separate entity because of the work ALA was already doing to protect the First Amendment and intellectual freedom. When the Foundation was being planned for and organized, Allain expressed concern in a letter to the Director of the Intellectual Freedom Office, Judith Krug, that ALA members would forget what the ALA has done and continues to do for intellectual freedom by covering themselves in this new umbrella of aid and assistance in the FTRF. Allain felt that there should be overlap of both organizations so that the focus remained centered on intellectual freedom and could be worked on in harmony.\n\nAllain also felt that in forming the FTRF with the ALA, the Foundation would be able to benefit from some of the clout and connections that ALA already had. He also suggested keeping policies between the two organizations similar because of his belief in the good work that the ALA does; he was continuously concerned about the ALA in his creation of the foundation and did not want members to see the foundation as a replacement but rather an addition to.\n\nLibrary trustees, along with intellectual freedom, were another area of Allain’s interest and expertise. Some of his publications in this area include, “Trustees & Censorship,” The Library Trustee: a Practical Guidebook, 1964; “Public Library Governing Bodies & Intellectual Freedom”, Library Trends, July 1970; and “The First & Fourteenth Amendment as They Support Libraries, Librarians, Library Systems & Library Development”, Illinois Libraries, January 1974.\n\nAccording to an article in memory of Allain in Louisiana Libraries, he won many awards including: LLA’s Modisette Award for Trustees (1965), ALA’s Trustee Award (1969), the University of Illinois’ Robert B. Downs Award (1973), ALA Honorary Life Membership (1975), the John Phillip Immroth Memorial Award (1979), the Freedom to Read Foundation Roll of Honor Award (1989 and 1999), the Southeastern Library Association President’s Award (1990) and the LLA Intellectual Freedom Award (1991). The Franklin branch of the St. Mary Parish Library in Louisiana is named in Allain's memory.\n\nOutside of his professional life, Allain was an avid volunteer in the community. He was a member of Rotary International, Knights of Columbus, Scouting and his Chamber of Commerce.\n"}
{"id": "19734378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19734378", "title": "Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics", "text": "Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics\n\nThe Annual World Bank Conference on Development Economics (ABCDE) is an annual conference on development economics held by the World Bank. The first conference was held in 1988 in Washington, USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "46627766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46627766", "title": "Apollinariya Yakubova", "text": "Apollinariya Yakubova\n\nApollinariya Yakubova (Аполлинария Александровна Якубова, died 1913 or 1917) was a Russian Marxist revolutionary and, with Vladimir Lenin, one of the founders of the League of Struggle for the Emancipation of the Working Class.\n\nYakubova was the daughter of a priest, and studied physics and mathematics in St. Petersburg. After escaping a prison camp in Siberia where she had been held for her revolutionary activity, Yakubova and her husband fled to London around 1900, where she was active in organizing debates on communist doctrine.\n\nShe became close friends with Lenin's wife Nadezhda Krupskaya and also associated closely with Lenin when he was in London, although the two eventually fell out over doctrinal disagreements. The American journalist Louis Fischer advanced, in 1964, the theory that she rejected a proposal of marriage by Lenin, and whether for this reason or another, she also earned the enmity of her former friend Krupskaya.\n\nYakubova returned to Russia with her husband in 1908, but what became of her then is unknown, and her date of death is variously given as 1913 or 1917. According to the historian Robert Henderson, \"be it by decree of Lenin, or Krupskaya, or for some other entirely different reason, [Yakubova] appears to have been almost written out of history\".\n"}
{"id": "6587456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587456", "title": "Australian Senate committees", "text": "Australian Senate committees\n\nThe committees of the Australian Senate are committees of Senators, established by the Australian Senate, for purposes determined by that body. Senate committees are part of the operation of the Australian parliament, and have for some decades been involved in maintenance of government accountability to the Australian parliament, particularly through hearings to scrutinise the budget, and through public inquiries on policy questions.\n\nThe existence of parliamentary committees is mentioned in section 49 of the Constitution of Australia, which makes reference to 'The powers, privileges, and immunities of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, and of the members and the committees of each House...' However, the Senate had few committees, engaged in limited activities, until 1970. A number of \"domestic\" committees had operated since the establishment of the parliament, but prior to 1970 the only significant committee to be established was the Regulations and Ordinances Committee in 1932, one of the \"legislative scrutiny\" committees (see below).\n\nIn 1970, the present committee system was created, with a series of standing (permanent) committees established that mirrored the portfolio activities of government. These reforms significantly enhanced the expertise and power of the Senate:\nThe Senate is now undergoing the most fundamental and dramatic changes witnessed in the Commonwealth Parliament since the States decided to federate 70 years ago. The introduction of a wide-ranging committee system will make the red-carpeted Upper House potentially the most powerful parliamentary chamber in Australia.\n\nThese reforms were also significant in that they gave to Senate committees the role of examining the budget (what is referred to as the \"estimates process\" or \"estimates hearings\"), which had hitherto been confined to the Senate and its committee of the whole. The role of the committees was enhanced by three subsequent developments. First, in 1982 the Scrutiny of Bills Committee was established, which, in examining all bills, played a role that complemented that of the examination of all delegated legislation by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. Second, in 1989 the Senate adopted procedures for the systematic referral of bills to committees, increasing the level of legislative scrutiny taking place within parliament. Third, in 1993, the committees adopted a more extensive procedure for consideration of the budget, creating a second opportunity each year for Senators to follow up issues identified during the initial budget estimates hearings. These second hearings are referred to as \"supplementary budget estimates\". Though the committee system was restructured in 1994, 2006 and again in 2009, the range of functions has remained essentially the same.\n\nThe functions of committees depend on the type of committee and on the work it is undertaking. Most of the committees are established under the Senate's Standing Orders.\n\nThe Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees (often referred to simply as 'standing committees') are established by Standing Order 25. The standing committees are actually made up of pairs of committees – a legislation committee and a references committee. The legislation committees are responsible for scrutinising bills referred to them by the chamber; examining the government's budget and activities (in what is called the budget estimates process); and for examining departmental annual reports and activities. The references committees are responsible for conducting inquiries into topics referred to them by the chamber.\n\nSelect committees are temporary committees, established by the Senate to deal with particular issues. This may occur when a particular group of Senators wishes to examine an issue in depth, or where there is no existing committee suited to addressing a particular topic. Australian Senate select committees have included ones set up to examine the Administration of Indigenous Affairs, and Mental Health. Select committees usually cease to exist upon reporting back to the chamber. One exception to this was the Senate Select Committee on Superannuation which in various forms existed for a decade.\n\nDomestic committees are responsible for administering aspects of the Senate's own affairs. The selection of bills committee meets each sitting fortnight to consider which of the bills coming before the Senate will be referred to committees for detailed consideration. The procedure committee considers \"any matter relating to the procedures of the Senate referred to it by the Senate or by the President\". This committee thus regularly examines and reports back to the chamber on suggested changes to the operation of the Senate and its committees, such as what times of day the chamber will sit and what rules should govern its order of business.\n\nEstablished by Standing Order 18 of the Senate, the privileges committee is responsible for reporting on matters of parliamentary privilege referred to it by the Senate. The protections afforded by parliamentary privilege are essential to parliament and its committees to be able to operate effectively. The bulk of the work of the privileges committee's work is associated with facilitating a 'right of reply' for people adversely named in the Senate, as well as involving investigations of unauthorised disclosures of Senate committee proceedings, complaints from witnesses in connection with evidence given to committees, and allegedly misleading evidence given to committees.\n\nThe purpose of the scrutiny of bills committee is to assess \"legislative proposals against a set of accountability standards that focus on the effect of proposed legislation on individual rights, liberties and obligations, and on parliamentary propriety\". The regulations and ordinances committee performs a similar task, but for all subordinate legislation.\n\nSenators may be members of joint committees: committees jointly established by both chambers of the Australian parliament. In addition, political parties will often have caucus committees comprising members of the parliamentary party; these committees will often have a policy focus, but are not committees of the parliament and are not bound by any of parliament's rules of procedures.\n\nThese are the committees of the 45th Parliament that exist within each category:\nThe Senate's committees are formed at the commencement of each new parliament, in accordance with rules set out in the Standing Orders. The committees exist until the first day of the following parliament, in contrast to the lower house committees, which cease to exist as soon as parliament is prorogued for an election.\n\nThe most important and high profile of the committees are the pairs of standing committees. These each have six members. The chairman of each legislation committee is chosen from amongst the government members, the deputy chair from amongst non-government members. The reverse is the case for the references committees. Because the chair has a casting vote in the event of a committee vote being tied, the government effectively controls the legislation committees, while the non-government parties control the references committees.\n\nThe membership and rules of committees, including those that operated during the Coalition's period of control, are shown below:\n\nCommittees have two types of members: full members and participating members. In the case of standing committees, full members are the six outlined above. In addition, however, any Senator may arrange for the Senate to agree to their being made a participating member of the committee. This gives them the same rights as full members, with the important exception of being unable to vote on motions in private meetings of the committees.\n\nThe committees are governed by the Standing Orders of the Senate, as well as being able to pass their own resolutions to govern certain aspects of their operations (such as the processing of correspondence and submissions to inquiries).\n\nCommittees are designed to assist the Senate as a whole. Thus the main formal structure of their work is that the Senate refers something to a committee for examination, and the committee reports back to the Senate on that matter. These reports are tabled during parliamentary sittings, but can also be presented when the Senate is not in session. Committees can gather evidence and will often hold public hearings to assist this process. To gather their evidence committees can (with exceptions) travel from place to place to hear evidence. Committees are able to order the production of documents and the appearance of witnesses (powers that are in practice used very sparingly). Most evidence taken by committees (both written submissions and transcripts of public hearings) is published, however committees have the power to take evidence confidentially (\"in camera\"), and regularly do so. Committees hold both public hearings and conduct business at private meetings. The minutes of private meetings are confidential (in contrast, for example, to those of New South Wales parliamentary committees).\n\nThe rules governing committees are slightly different when conducting budget estimates hearings. In particular, during estimates hearings, \n\nA typical year in the life of a Senate legislation committee will see it conduct eight days of hearings around budget estimates, in three sessions: February (additional estimates), May/June (the main budget estimates) and October/November (supplementary budget estimates). In addition, it will typically conduct several inquiries into pieces of legislation being considered by the parliament. A references committee will conduct inquiries into policy issues referred to it by the Senate. Each of these inquiries will usually result in a report tabled in the Senate (there may be exceptions if an election intervenes during the committee's deliberations). A consolidated list of the reports prepared by all Senate committees since 1970 is published by the Department of the Senate.\n\nCommittee inquiries typically begin with the reference of an issue or a proposed law to the committee for inquiry and report back to the Senate. The committee will make a call for submissions, seeking public input on the matter referred to the committee. It will often publish those submissions to help inform stakeholders of the views that are being put to the committee. A committee will often hold one or more public hearings, at which committee members ask questions of key stakeholders interested in the issue under inquiry. These hearings may be held anywhere in Australia, are often broadcast, and result in a published transcript (Hansard) that records the evidence taken. The opportunity to make submissions, and the greater accessibility of the committees compared to parliament itself, can provide disadvantaged individuals and organisations valued opportunities to engage in democratic processes. Committees also frequently ask relevant government agencies to respond to issues raised by submissions or evidence given to the inquiry. Once evidence has been gathered there usually follows a period of research and analysis by the committee. It will then deliver a report to the Senate, which will generally include recommendations. The Commonwealth government is then expected to table a response to the report, stating responses to any recommendations the committee may have made.\n\nFollowing the introduction of appropriation bills into the Parliament, the expenditure proposed in those bills is referred to Senate legislation committees for inquiry. Such referrals result in what are generally known as budget estimates hearings. Senate standing committees will usually conduct eight days of hearings around budget estimates, in three sessions: February (additional estimates), May/June (the main budget estimates) and October/November (supplementary budget estimates).\n\nDuring these hearings ministers, assisted by senior public servants, answer questions put to them by any Senator that relate to the operations and expenditure of departments and agencies that receive federal government funding. In such hearings, ministers from the House of Representatives are represented by a minister who is also a Senator.\n\nBudget and management reforms in the 1980s and 1990s saw a change in budgeting, including a greater emphasis on outcomes, and decreasing emphasis on inputs. This has been reflected in the activities of Senate committees, with Senators' questions being increasingly focussed on the 'results of government activities and away from a concern with inputs'.\n\nThe impact of the Senate's committees varies and has been the subject of debate. The work of the committees is frequently more consensual and less partisan than activity in the parliamentary chambers, and unanimous committee reports that agree recommendations across party lines are not uncommon. As a result, these recommendations may contribute to subsequent government policy announcements and occasionally to changes in government actions. The work of the regulations and ordinances committee has led to revisions of subordinate legislation in significant respects. Committee scrutiny of bills has contributed to them being amended or withdrawn. The impact of committees on legislation overall has however been described as 'rather limited', particularly as the committees that review bills are controlled by a government majority.\n\nSenate committees can be affected by the party composition of the Senate. The Clerk of the Senate, Harry Evans, argued that a government majority of seats in the Senate resulted in limitations on what the committees inquired into, and how readily governments responded to their queries and requests for information. Statistics published by centrist political party the Australian Democrats have been used to support the contention that committee operations have been inhibited by government control of the Senate, particularly in respect of selection of topics for committee inquiry. However Senator Minchin, the leader of the government in the Senate in the mid-2000s, pointed out that their political rivals had previously cut off debate on more bills in the Senate than had his government.\n\nOne of the most high-profile Senate committee inquiries was the Senate Select Committee on a Certain Maritime Incident, which in 2002 investigated what became known as the Children Overboard Affair. The events and subsequent Senate committee inquiries were widely reported, and the transcripts of the inquiry formed the basis of a play, \"A Certain Maritime Incident\". Other high-profile inquiries included the Community Affairs committee's inquiry into Children in Institutional Care, which brought to wide public notice the experiences of children who had been placed in care in sometimes inhumane circumstances and was directly responsible for state governments and churches making public apologies to the victims of abuse or neglect; the Select Committee on Mental Health, which contributed to widespread discussion of mental health issues and to a major funding boost for services in 2006; and the 2006 inquiry into the Migration Amendment (Designated Unauthorised Arrivals) Bill, which contributed to a government decision not to proceed with controversial migration legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1151591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151591", "title": "Autonomedia", "text": "Autonomedia\n\nAutonomedia is based in Brooklyn, New York, and is one of the main North American publishers of radical theoretical works, especially in the anarchist tradition. For many years, it was linked with Semiotext(e), a press that published English-language translations of post-structuralist literature, especially in the 1980s. \n\nAccording to Hakim Bey, Semiotext(e) \n\"was founded in 1974 by Sylvère Lotringer, a French scholar working for Columbia University whose self-appointed task was to introduce the Paris of '68 philosophers to America. That would include Baudrillard, Lyotard, Foucault, etc. And then, somewhere around 1982, Autonomedia become the umbrella book company.\"In early 2001, however, the two presses split; Semiotext(e) became part of MIT Press.\n\nAutonomedia publishes books on a variety of topics, such as anarchism, \"autonomist\" and extraparliamentary marxism, cyberfeminism, psychedelics and drug literature, turn of the 21st century queer individualist anarchist novels, etc. Well-known authors include Antonio Negri, Peter Lamborn Wilson, Michael Muhammad Knight, Silvia Federici, PM, John Moore, and others. They also are known for publishing the \"Autonomedia Calendar of Jubilee Saints,\" in which every day of the calendar commemorates a deceased person of significance to progressive movements or thought, and also is a holiday of some sort.\n\n"}
{"id": "58659807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58659807", "title": "Becca Heller", "text": "Becca Heller\n\nRebecca Heller is a lawyer specializing in human rights. She is known for her opposition to the Trump travel ban, and for her work providing legal assistance to refugees through the International Refugee Assistance Project, which she co-founded and directs.\n\nHeller is the daughter of a physician and a teacher; she grew up in Piedmont, California. She was a rebellious high school student, often skipping classes, competing for a different school's debate team, and graduating late because of a missed physical education requirement. She graduated from Dartmouth College in 2005 and became a Fulbright Scholar in Malawi, working there on issues of food policy.\nShe earned her J.D. from Yale Law School in 2010 and has worked as a visiting lecturer at Yale Law since 2010.\n\nHeller founded the International Refugee Assistance Project in 2008 as the Iraqi Refugee Assistance Project, after encountering Iraqi refugees on a side trip to Jordan during a summer internship in Israel, and learning of their need for legal assistance in obtaining resettlement. She calls herself \"an intensely neurotic and self-critical Jew\", and has likened the recent treatment of refugees from the Middle East to the treatment received by Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany.\n\nWhile a student at Dartmouth, Heller won the Howard R. Swearer Student Humanitarian Award of Campus Compact for her work connecting a Vermont homeless shelter with leftover food supplies from local farms.\n\nIn 2016, Heller won the 2016 Charles Bronfman Prize for distinguished humanitarian work by young Jews, for her work with the International Refugee Assistance Project.\nShe was named \"Foreign Policy\" Citizen Diplomat of the Year in 2017,\nand in the same year won the David Carliner Public Interest Award of the American Constitution Society.\nIn 2018, she was given a MacArthur \"Genius\" Fellowship.\n"}
{"id": "26750192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26750192", "title": "Benefitive treasury measure", "text": "Benefitive treasury measure\n\nIn economics, the benefitive treasury measure (BTM) is an economic indicator that attempts to correlate a relationship between immigration and government tax receipts/government spending; put more simply, it is cost-benefit analysis of immigration on a macroeconomic scale. Originally coined in a policy report by G. Ing and R. McGowan of the Liberal Democrat Policy Research Unit, it was later popularised by the BBC's Business Editor, Robert Peston, during the late-2000s recession, in reference to the British Conservative Party's proposal for a cap on inwards migration, referred to as the \"immigrant cap\". \n\nBTM analysis typically takes one of two forms. The first, growth analysis or 'absolute BTM', charts the net benefits and net costs of total inward migration occurring within the last 12 months (for example, increased welfare payments, tax receipts, and social unrest). \n\nThe second form of BTM analysis, 'Schengen BTM', has its parametres limited to immigration originating from European Union member states. Schengen BTM is unique in that it as much a political tool as an economic one, having originated from the research unit of a British political party. \n\nThe result of BTM analysis is displayed as BTM points, with each point corresponding to 0.01% of economic growth, relative to real GDP; for example, 4 on the BTM scale would suggest annual economic growth of 0.04% (real terms) within an economy, directly resultant of the previous year's net immigration. -4, in contrast, would indicate a contraction of −0.04%, perhaps as a result of social disorder, falling productivity or some other cause.\n\nThese factors may be described as benefitive treasury indicators, the socio-economic factors used to predict and calculate the annual BTM. BTI ranges from additional key worker housing construction costs, increases in law and order expenditure (as a result of additional need for social cohesion initiatives in deprived areas), to rises in the level of social security outpayments.\n\nIn 1985, the member states of the European Union ratified the Schengen Agreement, a quasi-Treaty that abolished the vast majority of border controls within the so-called Schengen Area. This process enabled freedom of labour movement across the Schengen Zone, in the spirit of furthering a Common Market and a free trade area. \n\nThe long-term effects of the Schengen Agreement are not yet clear and are still subject to some debate, with British Eurosceptics pointing to \"unprecedented\" immigration figures as evidence of unintended consequences. The 2004 enlargement of the EU only fanned this debate; particularly-eurosceptic member states became even more concerned that they would not be able to weather the impacts of both increased immigration, and emigration, on their respective economies. Benefitive treasury measure, to try to calm fears by correlating with growth patterns, was a response from the Liberal Democrats, the UK's primary integrationist party, who cooperated with EU researchers work on a preliminary assessment of the effect of the free movement of labour on each member state.\n"}
{"id": "9015204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9015204", "title": "Bharat Stree Mahamandal", "text": "Bharat Stree Mahamandal\n\nBharat Stree Mahamandal () was the first women's organisation in India founded by Sarala Devi Chaudhurani in Allahabad in 1910. One of the primary goals of the organisation was to promote female education, which at that time was not well developed. The organisation opened several offices in Lahore (then part of undivided India), Allahabad, Delhi, Karachi, Amritsar, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Bankura, Hazaribagh, Midnapur and Kolkata (formerly Calcutta) to improve the situation of women all over India.\n\n"}
{"id": "9515423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9515423", "title": "Breitbart News", "text": "Breitbart News\n\nBreitbart News Network (known commonly as Breitbart News, Breitbart or Breitbart.com) is a far-right syndicated American news, opinion and commentary website founded in mid-2007 by conservative commentator Andrew Breitbart, who conceived it as \"the \"Huffington Post\" of the right.\" Its journalists are widely considered to be ideologically driven, and some of its content has been called misogynistic, xenophobic, and racist by liberals and many traditional conservatives alike. The site has published a number of falsehoods, conspiracy theories, and intentionally misleading stories. \n\nBreitbart News aligned with the alt-right under the management of former executive chairman Steve Bannon, who declared the website \"the platform for the alt-right\" in 2016. In 2016, Breitbart News became a virtual rallying spot for supporters of Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. The company's management, together with former staff member Milo Yiannopoulos, solicited ideas for stories from, and worked to advance and market ideas of, neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups and individuals. After the election, more than 2,000 organizations removed Breitbart News from ad buys following Internet activism campaigns denouncing the site's controversial positions.\n\nBreitbart News is headquartered in Los Angeles, with bureaus in Texas, London, and Jerusalem. Co-founder Larry Solov is the co-owner (along with Andrew Breitbart's widow Susie Breitbart and the Mercer family) and CEO, while Alex Marlow is the editor-in-chief, Wynton Hall is managing editor, and Joel Pollak and Peter Schweizer are senior editors-at-large.\n\nAndrew Breitbart launched Breitbart.com as a news aggregator in 2005. The website featured direct links to wire stories at the Associated Press, Reuters, Fox News, the \"New York Post\", TMZ as well as a number of other outlets. The website's initial growth was largely fueled by links from the \"Drudge Report\". In 2007, Breitbart.com launched a video blog, Breitbart.tv.\n\nAccording to the site, the current incarnation of the website was conceived by Breitbart during a visit to Israel in mid-2007 as a website that would, in his own words, be \"unapologetically pro-freedom and pro-Israel\". In August 2010, Andrew Breitbart told the Associated Press that he was \"committed to the destruction of the old media guard.\" As part of that commitment, he founded Breitbart.com, a website designed to become \"the \"Huffington Post\" of the right\" according to Breitbart News's former executive chairman, Steve Bannon. Breitbart News exclusively re-posted the Anthony Weiner sexting scandal, the resignation of Shirley Sherrod, and the ACORN 2009 undercover videos controversy. Following Andrew Breitbart's death in 2012, the site was redesigned, bringing the formerly distinct \"Big\" websites under one umbrella website at Breitbart.com.\n\nBillionaire conservative activist Robert Mercer endowed Breitbart.com with at least $11 million in 2011.\n\nAndrew Breitbart died in March 2012. The website hosted a number of memorials for him. Editors said they intended to carry on his legacy at the website. Following Andrew Breitbart's death, former board member Bannon became executive chairman and Laurence Solov became CEO. The company also hired Joel Pollak as editor-in-chief and Alex Marlow as managing editor. An October 2012 article in BuzzFeed suggested there were internal tensions in the organisation in the year after Andrew Breitbart's death as staffers battled for ownership of his legacy.\n\nBefore his death, Andrew Breitbart had begun a redesign of the Breitbart News website to transform it from a links-aggregator into a more tabloid-style website. The redesign was launched shortly after his death in March 2012.\n\nIn February 2014, Bannon announced the addition of approximately 12 staff members and the opening of Texas and London-based operations. The new offices were the beginning of an expansion plan that included the addition of a new regional site roughly every 90 days, with new locations to include Florida, California, Cairo, and Jerusalem. According to a 2014 Pew Research Center study, 3% of respondents got their news from Breitbart in a typical week, and 79% of its audience report having political values that are right-of-center.\n\nUnder Banon's management, Breitbart News aligned with the American alt-right, the European populist right, and the nationalist identitarian movement. Bannon declared the website \"the platform for the alt-right\" in 2016, but denied all allegations of racism and later stated that he rejected the \"ethno-nationalist\" tendencies of the alt-right movement. One of Bannon's coworkers said he wasn't referring to Richard Spencer but instead to \"the trolls on Reddit or 4Chan.\" The owners of Breitbart News deny their website has any connection to the alt-right or has ever supported racist or white supremacist views.\n\nBreitbart News strongly supported Donald Trump in the United States presidential election, 2016. In July 2015, \"Politico\" reported that Ted Cruz \"likely has the Republican presidential field's deepest relationship with the Breitbart machine.\" In August 2015, an article in BuzzFeed reported that several anonymous Breitbart News staffers claimed that Donald Trump had paid for favorable coverage on the site. The site's management strongly denied the charge. In March 2016, Lloyd Grove of \"The Daily Beast\" characterized the website as \"Trump-friendly\", writing that Breitbart News \"regularly savages the GOP establishment, the media elite, the Washington consultant class, and the Fox News Channel.\" Up to June 2016, Breitbart News was the most cited news source on Trump's presidential campaign website, DonaldJTrump.com.\n\nOn March 11, 2016, Breitbart News reporter Michelle Fields filed a battery complaint against Donald Trump's campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, alleging that Lewandowski had grabbed her and bruised her while she was attempting to ask a question at an event. After claiming that Breitbart News's management was not sufficiently supportive of Fields, Breitbart's editor-at-large Ben Shapiro and Fields resigned. A Breitbart News article published on March 14, 2016 accused Shapiro of betraying Breitbart News's readers; the article was subsequently removed from the website. Editor-at-large Joel Pollak apologized for writing the article, saying he had done so in an attempt \"to make light of a significant company event.\" The website's spokesperson Kurt Bardella also resigned following the incident, objecting to the company's handling of the incident and its favorable coverage of Trump. By March 14, several top executives and journalists at Breitbart News had resigned, with \"The New York Times\" saying that \"Breitbart's unabashed embrace of Mr. Trump, particularly at the seeming expense of its own reporter, struck them as a betrayal of its mission.\" Former employees accused Bannon of having \"turned a website founded on anti-authoritarian grounds into a de facto propaganda outlet for Mr. Trump.\"\nOn August 17, Bannon stepped down from his role as executive chairman to join the Trump campaign as its new CEO. On August 25, Trump's opponent Hillary Clinton criticized him for hiring Bannon as his CEO in her rally in Reno, Nevada. She stated that the site \"embraces ideas on the extremist fringe of the conservative right\" by reading out the site's headlines and that Trump's decision to hire Bannon \"represents a landmark achievement for the alt-right\". In January 2017, editor Julia Hahn resigned from Breitbart News to work as special assistant to president Donald Trump.\n\nOn November 30, 2016, Breitbart News announced plans to boycott the Kellogg's brand after its decision to stop advertising on the site because Breitbart is not \"aligned with our values\". Later, Breitbart News announced they would be willing to go to \"war\" with Kellogg's over its decision to remove ads from the site.\n\nMilo Yiannopoulos, who had served as a senior editor of Breitbart News since 2014, resigned from the company on February 21, 2017 after a video of him making controversial statements in relation to hebephilia surfaced.\n\nAllies of Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior advisor Jared Kushner complained to Trump in April 2017 after Breitbart published several unflattering articles about Kushner. Shortly afterwards, the site's senior editors asked staffers to stop writing stories critical of Kushner.\n\nIn the two months from April to June 2017, Breitbart News lost about 90% of its advertisers. Visitor traffic has fallen 53 percent since November 2017, roughly twice the rate of other mainstream news sites since the 2016 election. The site's decline also coincides with boycotts aimed at getting advertisers to stop running ads on the site. The boycotts were mainly organized by the anonymous online group Sleeping Giants, which said on June 5 that 2,200 organizations had committed to stop advertising on Breitbart News (and similar sites) due to its controversial positions. Soon thereafter, Breitbart News trimmed prominently displayed, overtly racist content and fired contributor Katie McHugh for posting Islamophobic tweets about the London Bridge terror attack.\n\nBannon was appointed White House Chief Strategist in the administration of US President Donald Trump and served in that role for seven months; he was dismissed from the White House on August 17, 2017. That same day, he was again appointed executive chairman of Breitbart News. In January 2018, Breitbart News announced that Bannon stepped down from his position as executive chairman.\n\nIn September 2018, Wikipedia editors voted to ban the site as a news source; the site can still be cited as opinion or commentary source.\n\nBreitbart News is a far-right American news, opinion, and commentary website. Some sources describe it as a conservative news outlet or as part of the alt-right. Its consistently conservative editorial positions overlap with the ideological positions of far-right European political parties. It supported Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, and political scientist Matthew Goodwin described Breitbart News as being \"ultra-conservative\" in orientation.\n\nIn August 2017, Joel Pollak, the senior editor-at-large for Breitbart News, described the \"mission\" of Breitbart News in this way:\n\nBreitbart News has published a number of falsehoods and conspiracy theories, as well as intentionally misleading stories, including claims that Hillary Clinton and the Obama administration supported ISIS. It has sometimes published these misleading stories as part of an intentional strategy to manipulate media narratives via disinformation. In July 2010, Shirley Sherrod was fired from her appointed position as Georgia State Director of Rural Development for the United States Department of Agriculture. Her firing was largely in response to coverage in \"Breitbart News\" of video excerpts from her address to an event of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in March 2010. Both NAACP and White House officials apologized for their statements after a longer version of her address was reviewed.\n\nIn April 2016, the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote that the \"outlet has undergone a noticeable shift toward embracing ideas on the extremist fringe of the conservative right\" and was using \"racist\", \"anti-Muslim\" and \"anti-immigrant ideas\". The center wrote that the website was openly promoting, and had become associated with, the beliefs of the alt-right. Former editor-at-large Ben Shapiro wrote that under Bannon's leadership, \"Breitbart has become the alt-right go-to website ... pushing white ethno-nationalism as a legitimate response to political correctness, and the comment section turning into a cesspool for white supremacist mememakers\", describing the website as \"Trump Pravda\". Breitbart News has published material that has been called misogynist, xenophobic, and racist. However, the owners of Breitbart News deny their website has any connection to the alt-right.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League described Breitbart News as \"the premier website of the alt-right\" representing \"white nationalists and unabashed anti-Semites and racists.\" The Zionist Organization of America rejected accusations of anti-semitism, saying that Breitbart News instead \"bravely fights against anti-Semitism\" and called for the ADL to apologize. An article in \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" argued that Bannon and Andrew Breitbart are anti-Semitic. An article by Rabbi Shmuley Boteach in \"The Hill\" disputed the allegations, arguing that Breitbart defends Israel against antisemitism. Alexander Marlow denies that Breitbart is a \"hate-site\", stating \"that we're consistently called anti-Semitic despite the fact that we are overwhelmingly staffed with Jews and are pro-Israel and pro-Jewish. That is fake news.\"\n\nBreitbart News has had staff members associated with white supremacists. An exposé by BuzzFeed published in October 2017 documented how Breitbart solicited story ideas and copy edits from white supremacists and neo-Nazis via the intermediation of Milo Yiannopoulos. Yiannopoulos, together with other Breitbart News employees, developed and marketed the values and tactics of these groups and attempted to make them palatable to a broader audience. According to BuzzFeed, \"These new emails and documents ... clearly show that Breitbart does more than tolerate the most hate-filled, racist voices of the alt-right. It thrives on them, fueling and being fueled by some of the most toxic beliefs on the political spectrum—and clearing the way for them to enter the American mainstream.\" In November 2017, British anti-fascism charity Hope Not Hate identified one of the website's writers as an administrator of a far-right Facebook group that serves as a platform for fascists and white supremacists.\n\nIn 2017 the Mueller investigation examined the role of Breitbart News in Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections and its role in both amplifying stories from Russian media and being amplified by Russian bots in social media. In 2017, a Breitbart News reporter left the company to join Sputnik.\n\nBreitbart News is a for-profit organization. According to \"Politico\", investors include computer scientist and hedge fund CEO Robert Mercer. Editors commented in 2015 that the site is a \"private company and we don't comment on who our investors or backers are.\" One of Breitbart News's objectives is to court millennial conservatives. Traffic is vital to Breitbart News as it supports itself from advertising revenue.\n\nIn 2008, Andrew Breitbart launched the website \"Big Hollywood\", a group blog by individuals working in Hollywood. The site was an outgrowth of Breitbart's \"Big Hollywood\" column in \"The Washington Times\", which included issues faced by conservatives working in Hollywood. In 2009, the site used audio from a conference call to accuse the National Endowment of the Arts of encouraging artists to create work in support of President Barack Obama's domestic policy. The Obama Administration and the NEA were accused of potentially violating the Hatch Act. The White House acknowledged regrets, and the story led to the resignation of a White House appointee, and new federal guidelines for how federal agencies should interact with potential grantees.\n\nAndrew Breitbart launched BigGovernment.com on September 10, 2009, with a $25,000 loan from his father. He hired Mike Flynn, a former government affairs specialist at the Reason Foundation, as Editor-in-Chief of Big Government. The site premiered with hidden camera video footage taken by Hannah Giles and James O'Keefe at Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) offices in various cities, attracting nationwide attention resulting in the ACORN 2009 undercover videos controversy. According to law enforcement and media analysts, the videos were heavily edited to create a negative impression of ACORN.\n\nIn January 2010, Andrew Breitbart launched Big Journalism. Upon the launch of Big Journalism, he told Mediaite: \"Our goal at Big Journalism is to hold the mainstream media's feet to the fire. There are a lot of stories that they simply don't cover, either because it doesn't fit their world view, or because they're literally innocent of any knowledge that the story even exists, or because they are a dying organization, short-staffed, and thus can't cover stuff like they did before.\" Big Journalism was edited by Michael A. Walsh, a former journalism professor and \"Time\" magazine music critic.\n\nBigPeace.com, which later became the National Security component of Breitbart News, debuted on July 4, 2010. National Security covers foreign policy, the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, terrorism, Islamic extremism, espionage, border security, and energy issues.\n\nOn October 27, 2015, the website launched Breitbart Tech, a technology journalism subsection of the site that focuses on technology, gaming, esports, and internet culture. It was initially edited by Milo Yiannopoulos until his resignation on February 21, 2017, following the controversy surrounding questionable comments he made regarding hebephilia and the sexuality of children during two podcasts. In July 2016 Yiannopoulos was banned from Twitter after racist abuse was directed towards \"Ghostbusters\" actress Leslie Jones following Yiannopoulos's insulting tweets about her. Although Yiannopoulos's Twitter account was removed, Breitbart News has since republished the full tweet exchange and has published articles criticizing Twitter.\n\nBreitbart News Radio began daily production on SiriusXM Patriot in 2015.\n\nBreitbart News's London edition was launched in February 2014. It was headed at the time by executive editor James Delingpole, described as a \"high traffic hire\" by \"The Spectator's\" Steerpike column. He co-founded it with Raheem Kassam.\n\nOn November 17, 2015, the website launched Breitbart Jerusalem, which covers events in Israel and the wider Middle East. It is edited by Israel-based American reporter Aaron Klein. Rabbi Shmuley Boteach has been an occasional columnist.\n\nBreitbart News's Texas edition was launched in February 2014 and its editor and managing director at launch was Brandon Darby. Michael Quinn Sullivan was a founding contributor.\n\nBreitbart News played a central role in the 2009 ACORN video controversy, which resulted in the reorganization of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, as well as its loss of private and government funding. Breitbart News contributor Hannah Giles posed as a prostitute fleeing an abusive pimp and seeking tax and legal advice on how to run an illegal business that included the use of underage girls in the sex trade, while James O'Keefe, another contributor, posed as her boyfriend. They clandestinely videotaped meetings with ACORN staff who \"gave advice on house-buying and how to account on tax forms for the woman's income.\"\n\nAndrew Breitbart paid Giles and O'Keefe $32,000 and $65,000, respectively, to film, edit and blog about the videos. Giles paid $100,000 and O'Keefe paid $50,000 to settle a lawsuit brought by former ACORN employee Juan Carlos Vera regarding the videos.\n\nSubsequent investigations by the Brooklyn District Attorney's office and the California Attorney General found the videos were heavily edited in an attempt to make ACORN's responses \"appear more sinister\", and contributed to the group's demise. Clark Hoyt, \"The New York Times\" public editor, wrote, \"The videos were heavily edited. The sequence of some conversations was changed. Some workers seemed concerned for Giles, one advising her to get legal help. In two cities, ACORN workers called the police. But the most damning words match the transcripts and the audio, and do not seem out of context.\" However, a former Massachusetts Attorney General hired to investigate the matter found no pattern of illegal conduct by the ACORN employees and said the news media should have been far more skeptical, demanding the raw video from which the edited versions were produced.\n\nIn July 2010, Breitbart News released an edited video titled \"Proof NAACP Awards Racism\" which featured USDA official Shirley Sherrod speaking at a National Association for the Advancement of Colored People fundraising dinner in March 2010. In the video, Sherrod admits to a racial reluctance to help a white farmer obtain government aid. As a result of the video, the NAACP condemned Sherrod's remarks, and U.S. government officials called on Sherrod to resign, which she did.\n\nThe NAACP later posted the longer 43-minute video of the speech. In it, Sherrod said her reluctance to help a white man was wrong, and she had ended up assisting him. The NAACP then reversed their rebuke of Sherrod, and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack apologized and offered Sherrod a new government position. Andrew Breitbart said that the point of the piece was not to target Sherrod, but said the NAACP audience's reception of some parts of the speech demonstrated the same racism the NAACP's President had accused the Tea Party movement of harboring. In 2011, Sherrod sued Andrew Breitbart and his business partner Larry O'Connor for defamation. In 2015, Sherrod and Andrew Breitbart's estate settled the case.\n\nOn May 28, 2011, Breitbart News's BigJournalism website reported on a sexually explicit photo linked on New York Representative Anthony Weiner's Twitter feed. Weiner initially denied that he had sent a 21-year-old female college student the link to the photograph, but later admitted to inappropriate online relationships. On June 6, Breitbart News reported other photos Weiner had sent, including one that was sexually explicit. Two days later, the sexually graphic photo was leaked after Andrew Breitbart participated in a radio interview with hosts Opie and Anthony. Andrew Breitbart stated that the photo was published without his permission. Weiner subsequently resigned from his congressional seat on June 21.\n\nOn February 7, 2013, Ben Shapiro published an article on Breitbart News reporting allegations that former Senator and nominee for United States Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel (R-Nebraska) may have been paid to speak at an event sponsored by a group called \"Friends of Hamas.\" Breitbart News said that the story was based on exclusive information from U.S. Senate sources. The story was later repeated by \"RedState\", \"National Review\", \"Washington Times\", and \"PJ Media\".\n\nAn investigation by \"Slate\" reporter David Weigel failed to confirm the existence of the purported group. On February 19, New York \"Daily News\" reporter Dan Friedman said that the story had originated from a sarcastic comment he had made to a congressional staffer. \"Friends of Hamas\" was one of several groups which Friedman considered to be so over-the-top as to be implausible and obviously fictitious. He was investigating rumors that Hagel had been paid for speaking to \"controversial organizations\", and asked sarcastically whether he had addressed \"Friends of Hamas.\" Friedman followed with an email to the congressional staffer asking if Hagel had received a $25,000 fee from \"Friends of Hamas\" for his speaking engagement. No reply to the email was received, and the next day, Breitbart News ran a story with the headline \"Secret Hagel Donor?: White House Spox Ducks Question on 'Friends of Hamas'.\"\n\nBreitbart News maintained that the report was accurate, posting articles defending the website and criticizing Weigel and Friedman. Writers for \"The Washington Post\", \"New York\" magazine and \"The Daily Beast\" criticized Breitbart News for the \"Friends of Hamas\" story, calling it \"wrong\" and \"made-up\".\n\nIn April 2014, Breitbart News created an advertising campaign to launch \"Breitbart California\", which included posters bearing an image of House minority leader Nancy Pelosi's head superimposed onto singer Miley Cyrus's body as seen twerking on California governor Jerry Brown, spoofing the 2013 VMAs. DNC Chairwoman and Florida Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz denounced the images as disrespectful to women. In response, House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy requested that his column be removed from the site.\n\nAccording to Breitbart News, the inspiration for the ad campaign was a 2013 \"Saturday Night Live\" skit in which Cyrus appeared as a highly sexualized version of Republican Congresswoman Michele Bachmann alongside a feminine, homosexual version of Republican Congressman and Speaker of the House John Boehner.\n\nOn November 8, 2014, Breitbart News posted an article by Warner Todd Huston, which erroneously reported that Loretta Lynch, President Barack Obama's nominee for attorney general, had been part of Bill Clinton's defense team during the Whitewater scandal about the Whitewater Development Corporation. In fact, the Whitewater lawyer was a different Loretta Lynch. After this mistake was pointed out by \"Talking Points Memo\" and Media Matters for America, Breitbart News noted that the two Lynches were different people by correcting and appending the original article. Andrew Rosenthal of \"The New York Times\" editorial page editor criticized this, writing: \"The appended correction didn't really do justice to the scope of the misidentification.\"\n\nThe \"American Journalism Review\" said \"that Breitbart had let the mistaken fact stand in the headline and the article itself,\" and had published a second story containing the incorrect information on November 9. By November 10, the initial story had been deleted from Breitbart.com. \"PolitiFact\" rated the claim \"Pants on Fire\" and noted that the false claim had \"already spread to other conspiracy, opinion and conservative news websites\", as an example of how fast false information can spread on the Internet.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", Breitbart News promoted the falsehood that President Obama was a Kenyan-born Muslim (\"birtherism\"). In \"Devil's Bargain\", however, Joshua Green writes that Breitbart never promoted birtherism. Breitbart senior editor-at-large Joel B. Pollak has denied that Breitbart News was a \"Birther website\" or that it had ever made a birther-conspiracy claim.\n\nIn June 2016, Breitbart News falsely claimed President Obama supported terrorists.\n\nIn March 2017, Breitbart News published a story by conservative talk radio host Mark Levin claiming that Obama had wiretapped Donald Trump during Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. President Trump repeated the claims on his Twitter feed less than 24 hours after Breitbart News ran the story.\n\nDuring the 2016 presidential election, Breitbart News promoted conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton and her staff, including the debunked Pizzagate conspiracy theory, which alleged that high-ranking members of the Democratic Party were involved a child sex ring. Roger Stone, an outside adviser to Trump's campaign and frequent promoter of fringe-right conspiracy theories, regularly publishes pieces in Breitbart. A June 2016 Breitbart News article presented Stone's conspiracy theory that Clinton aide Huma Abedin was involved with terrorism.\n\nOn January 3, 2017, Breitbart News's Virginia Hale wrote that \"[a]t a New Year's Eve celebrations in Dortmund a mob of more than 1,000 men chanted 'Allahu Akhbar', launched fireworks at police, and set fire to a historic church\" giving the impression of \"chaotic civil war-like conditions in Germany, caused by Islamist aggressors\" according to \"The Guardian\". The story was later shown to be false; St. Reinold's Church is neither the oldest church in Germany nor was the church set on fire. While 1000 people did gather, which is not unusual on New Year's Eve in a public place, video footage from the scene does not show a \"mob\", and no policemen were targeted. The official police report recorded an \"average to quiet New Year's Eve\" with \"no spectacular facts to report\", while firefighters note an \"almost normal weekend night\" and state that a \"safety net at the Reinoldi church caught fire by a fireworks rocket, but was quickly extinguished\". Witness said it was not the church roof that was scorched, but a construction scaffolding on the church's far side, away from the crowd. The group that shouted \"Allahu Akbar\" consisted of only 50–70 people and was celebrating the ceasefire in Aleppo.\n\nThe false story was then subsequently picked up by an Austrian far-right website before it made its way back to Germany where politician Thorsten Hoffmann fell for it. In Germany, several newspapers reported on Breitbart News publishing the hoax and distorting facts for the purpose of spreading Islamophobic propaganda. Breitbart News initially declined to comment, but on January 8 published a story in which it stood by its claims, which had been shown to be false, and refused to admit to any exaggeration. The only correction issued was with regard to the church's age. The follow-up story used a screen capture of different fireworks at the near side of the church, with no scaffolding. \"Ruhr Nachrichten\", the original outlet and the alleged witness cited by Breitbart News, replied to the update, and stated that Breitbart News had not contacted them or the firefighters present to verify their story. They also reiterated the accusation against Breitbart News of exaggerating minor facts to give a false \"impression that a 'mob' of 1000 migrants had shot at Christian churches in Dortmund and set them on fire.\" The newspaper went on to accuse Breitbart News of not adhering to journalistic ethics. \"Ruhr Nachrichten\" also accused Breitbart of \"using our online reports for fake news, hate and propaganda\" and published video fragments recorded on site that contradicted Breitbart News's story.\n\nIn November 2016, Breitbart News published an article summarizing a \"Daily Mail\" piece that falsely claimed that record-high global temperatures were unrelated to global warming. The Breitbart article, by James Delingpole, was cited by the United States House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, for which the latter itself was criticized. Weather.com condemned the Breitbart story in an article titled \"Note to Breitbart: Earth Is Not Cooling, Climate Change Is Real and Please Stop Using Our Video to Mislead Americans\".\n\nIn June 2017, Breitbart News published an article by Dellingpole that claimed that 58 scientific papers disproved anthropogenic climate change. A number of scientists criticized the article, describing it as cherry-picking, derogatory, inaccurate, misleading, and employing flawed reasoning.\n\nIn August 2017, Breitbart News featured a picture of professional German soccer player Lukas Podolski in an article entitled \"Spanish Police Crack Gang Moving Migrants on Jet-Skis\". Podolski is neither a migrant gang member nor a victim of human trafficking. The picture was of Podolski riding a jet-ski in the summer of 2014 in Brazil. Breitbart News apologized to Podolski after the picture drew attention.\n\nIn October 2017, Breitbart News published a false story claiming that an undocumented immigrant was arrested in connection with the October 2017 Northern California wildfires. Sonoma County's sheriff department responded to Breitbart's reporting, \"This is completely false, bad, wrong information that Breitbart started and is being put out into the public.\"\n"}
{"id": "11150409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11150409", "title": "Building estimator", "text": "Building estimator\n\nA building estimator or cost estimator is an individual that quantifies the materials, labor, and equipment needed to complete a construction project. Building cost estimating can concern diverse forms of construction from residential properties to hi-rise and civil works. \nBoth estimators and quantity surveyors must have a background education in the construction industry. \nRepresentative professional bodies which regulate property professionals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8308125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8308125", "title": "Church involvement in Fiji coups", "text": "Church involvement in Fiji coups\n\nFiji's four coups in the past two decades have had church involvement. At the center of each coup lies the tension between the ethnic Fijians and Indian Fijians. Religion plays a significant role, as the majority of ethnic Fijians belong to the Methodist church while the majority of Indian Fijians are Hindu.\n\nIn each of the four coups, one of the sides sought to reduce rights for Indian Fijians, whereas the other side sought to grant equality to Indian Fijians. The coup by Colonel Sitiveni Rabuka in 1987 led to a constitution that ensured Indian Fijians could only have less than half of all seats in parliament and banned Indians from the post of prime minister. The coup of 2000, by George Speight, removed the elected Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudry, who is a Hindu of Indian origin.\n\nThe powerful Methodist Church backed the past three coups, but has opposed the 2006 coup.\n\nThe Church plays a major role in Fiji politics. Oftentimes, some politicians appeal to Fijians addressing them as \"Christians\", even though Hindus are 38% of the \npopulation in Fiji, compared with 52% Christians. It was alleged by Commodore Frank Bainimarama that the 2000 Fijian coup d'état that removed the elected PM Mahendra Chaudhry, was supported by many people within Methodist church. The Methodist church leaders supported a subsequent proposal to pardon those involved.\n\nThere are some people within the Methodist church that have raised the possibility of declaring Fiji a theocratic Christian state. This has brought Josaia Voreqe \"Frank\" Bainimarama, leader of the December 2006 coup, into conflict with the Methodist church in the past.\n\nSome Methodist Church authorities have continued to advocate the establishment of a Christian state. In a letter of support from the head of the Methodist Church, Reverend Tomasi Kanilagi, to George Speight, the leader of the May 19, 2000, armed takeover of Parliament, Reverend Kanilagi publicly expressed his intention to use the Methodist Church as a forum under which to unite all ethnic Fijian political parties. The Methodist church also supported forgiveness to those who plotted the coup in form of so-called \"Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill\".\n\nThe Methodist church general secretary Reverend Ame Tugaue has expressed concern about the practice of Hinduism in Fiji. Fiji Times reported his views on March 27, 2005:\n\nReverend Tuikilakila Waqairatu of the Fiji Council of Churches and Assembly of Christian Churches has stated that the 2006 coup is \"un-Christian\" and is \"[a] manifestation of darkness and evil\" and pointed out that \"52% of Fijians are Christian and the country's Christian values are being undermined\".\n\nFiji is one of the few countries in the world that officially imposes disabilities on a group that constitutes a large part of the population, on the basis of race, and religion. It has caused an exodus of the Indians, who until recently formed slight majority in Fiji.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30367945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30367945", "title": "Civil Center for National Initiative", "text": "Civil Center for National Initiative\n\nThe Civil Center for National Initiative is a Lebanese think-tank which aims to promote the role of civil society in Lebanese politics, as well as establish a civil and non-confessional state in Lebanon.\n\nCreated in 2008, its founding members include statesman Hussein el-Husseini, former prime minister Najib Mikati, journalist Ghassan Tueni, poet Adunis, among others, which include members of parliament, university professors and journalists.\n\nIn 2009, following a long campaign, the Center succeeded in persuading the Lebanese Ministry of Interior to allow citizens to remove sectarian affiliation from civil records, a landmark in Lebanese history.\n\n"}
{"id": "15571360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15571360", "title": "Democratic Socialist Party (Lebanon)", "text": "Democratic Socialist Party (Lebanon)\n\nThe Democratic Socialist Party, is a Lebanese party founded and led by former Lebanese speaker of parliament Kamel Al-Assad.\n\nThe party is hostile to Hezbollah and Amal movement, and enjoys most of its support from the Lebanese Shi'a community.\n"}
{"id": "673858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673858", "title": "Eco-capitalism", "text": "Eco-capitalism\n\nEco-capitalism, also known as environmental capitalism or green capitalism, is the view that capital exists in nature as \"natural capital\" (ecosystems that have ecological yield) on which all wealth depends, and therefore, market-based government policy instruments (such as a carbon tax) should be used to resolve environmental problems.\n\nThe term \"Blue Greens\" is often applied to those who espouse eco-capitalism. It is considered as the right-wing equivalent to Red Greens.\n\nThe roots of eco-capitalism can be traced back to the late 1960s. The \"Tragedy of the Commons\", an essay published in 1968 in \"Science\" by Garrett Hardin, claimed the inevitability of malthusian catastrophe due to liberal or democratic government's policies to leave family size matters to the family, and enabling the welfare state to willingly care for potential human overpopulation. Hardin argued that if families were given freedom of choice in the matter, but were removed from a welfare state, parents choosing to overbear would not have the resources to provide for their \"litter\", thus solving the problem of overpopulation. This represents an early argument made from an eco-capitalist standpoint: overpopulation would technically be solved by a free market. John Baden, a collaborator with Garrett Hardin on other works including \"Managing the Commons,\" founded the Political Economy Research Center (now called the Property and Environment Research Center ) in 1982. As one of the first eco-capitalist organizations created, PERC's ongoing mission is \"improving environmental quality through property rights and markets\". The most popular eco-capitalist idea was emissions trading, or more commonly, cap and trade. Emissions trading, a market-based approach that allows polluting entities to purchase or be allocated permits, began being researched in the late 1960s. International emissions trading was significantly popularized in the 1990s when the United Nations adopted the Kyoto Protocol in 1997.\n\n\nThe ideology of eco-capitalism was adopted to satisfy two competing needs:\nUnder the doctrine of eco-capitalism, businesses commodify the act of addressing environmental issues.\n\nThe following are common principles in the transition to eco-capitalism.\n\nA central part of eco-capitalism is to correct for the market failure seen in the externalization of pollution. By treating the issue of pollution as an externality it has allowed the market to minimize the degree of accountability. To correct for this market failure eco-capitalism would have to internalize this cost. A prime example of this shift towards internalizing externalities is seen in the adoption of a system for carbon trading. In a system like this people are forced to factor the pollution cost into their expenses. This system as well as other systems of internalization function on large and small scales(often times both are tightly connected). On a corporate scale, the government can regulate carbon emissions and other polluting factors in business practices forcing companies to either reduce their pollution levels, externalize these costs onto their consumers by raising the cost of their goods/services, and/or a combination of the two. These kinds of systems can also be effective in indirectly creating a more environmentally conscious consumer base. As the companies who are creating the most pollution face falling profit levels and rising prices their consumers and investors are inclined to take their business elsewhere. This migration of investment and revenue would then be expected to make its way to business who have already incorporated the minimization of pollution into their business model thus allowing them to provide lower prices and higher profit margins attracting the migrating consumers and investors.\n\nAt the conception of the ideology, major theorists of eco-capitalism, Paul Hawken, Lester Brown, and Francis Cairncross, saw an opportunity to establish a different approach to environmentalism in a capitalist society. These theorists thought that not only producers but also consumers could shoulder the social responsibility of environmental restoration if \"green technology, green taxes, green labeling, and eco-conscious shopping\" existed. The resulting \"shopping our way to sustainability\" mentality encouraged the development of organic farming, renewable energy, green certifications as well as other eco-friendly practices.\n\nA 2015 report from Nielsen lends credence to this theory. According to the report, consumers have more brand loyalty and are willing to pay higher prices for a product that is perceived as being sustainable. This is especially true among Millenials and Generation Z. These generations currently make up 48% of the global marketplace and still haven't hit their peak spending levels. As these generations' preferences continue to shape how businesses operate and market themselves, they could drive a continued shift toward green consumption. \n\nAccording to the Annual Review of Environmental Resources, \"the focus of policy makers, businesses, and researchers has mostly been on the latter (consuming differently), with relatively little attention paid to consuming less\". A review of how to encourage sustainable consumption from the University of Surrey shows that, \"Government policies send important signals to consumers about institutional goals\nand national priorities.\" Governments can pull a variety of levers to signal this including product, trading, building, media, and marketing standards.\n\nCreating perhaps the first major eco-capitalist endorsement, many political and economic institutions support a system of pollution credits. Such a system, which assigns property rights to emissions, is considered to be the most \"efficient and effective\" way for regulating greenhouse gas emissions in the current neoliberal global economy. Especially in the case of tradable pollution credits, the resulting market-based system of emissions regulation is believed to motivate businesses to invest in technology that reduce greenhouse gas emissions using positive reinforcement (i.e. ability to trade unused credits) and punishment (i.e. the need to buy more credits).\n\nEnvironmental full-cost accounting explains corporate actions on the basis of the triple bottom line, which is best summarized as \"people, planet, and profit\". As a concept of corporate social responsibility, full cost accounting not only considers social and economic costs and benefits but also the environmental implications of specific corporate actions.\n\nWhile there has been progress in measuring the cost of harm to the health of individuals and the environment, the interaction of environmental, social, and health effects makes measurement difficult. Measurement attempts can be broadly categorized as either behavioral in nature, like hedonic pricing, or dose-response which looks at indirect effects. A standardized measurement of these costs has yet to emerge. This should not be confused with the full-cost method used by organizations searching for oil and gas that \"does not differentiate between operating expenses associated with successful and unsuccessful exploration projects\".\n\nThe current standard of using the gross domestic product (GDP) as an indicator of welfare is criticized for being inaccurate. An alternative to GDP, the genuine progress indicator compensates for the shortcomings of the GDP as a welfare indicator by accounting for environmental harms as well as other factors that affect consumption, such as crime and income inequality.\n\nMajority of the criticism from traditionally unregulated capitalism is due to eco-capitalism's increased regulation. Pollution credits (as a means for regulating greenhouse gas emissions) is traditionally at odds with economically conservative ideologies. Elements of unregulated capitalism prefer environmental issues to be addressed by individuals who may allocate their own income and wealth, oppose the commodification of by-products like carbon emissions, and emphasize positive incentives to maintain resources through free-market competition and entrepreneurship.\n\nProponents of eco-capitalism view environmental reform like pollution credits as a more transformative and progressive system. According to these Proponents, since free market capitalism as inherently expansionist in tendency, ignoring environmental responsibility is a danger to the environment. Approximately 36% of Americans are deeply concerned about climate issues. Proponents of Eco Capitalism typically favor political environmentalism, which emphasizes negative incentives like regulation and taxes to encourage the conservation of resources and prevent environmental harm.\n\nPolitical theorist, Antonio Gramsci, cites theories of common sense, which suggests that, in general, free market capitalism absent of environmental reform, is ingrained in the minds of its members as the only viable and successful form of economic organization through cultural hegemony. Therefore, the proposal of any alternate economic system, like eco-capitalism, must overcome the predominant common sense and economic status quo in order to develop opposing theories. Nonetheless, movements in the United States and abroad have continued to push for reforms to protect the environment in current capitalistic systems.\n\nAnother political theorist, Daniel Tanuro, explains, in his book \"Green Capitalism: Why it Can't Work\", that for green capitalism to be successful, it would have to replace current mainstream capitalism with Eco-socialist methods, while defying corporate interests:\nHowever, Tanuro adds that social and economical change to the current capitalist systems is necessary, because technology will invariably increase emissions as manufacturing processes and distribution systems progress. Tanuro argues for changes in three areas: \nDespite this argument, critics still claim that green consumption, sustainable behavior on the part of the consumer, is not enough to be instituted as a socio-environmental solution. In accordance with hegemony, capitalism agrees that the government has little control over market and buyers, sellers, and consumers ultimately drive the market. In contrast, in green capitalism, the government would have more control therefore; consumers do not have direct power over the market, and should not be held accountable. Thus, going against the established monetary system of capitalism in the U.S. and spread throughout the globally.\n\nEnvironmental Scholar Bill McKibben proposes \"full scale climate mobilization\" to address environmental decay. During World War II, vehicle manufacturers and general goods manufacturers shifted to producing weapons, military vehicles and war time goods. McKibben argues that, to combat environmental change, the American Military Industrial Complex and other national arms producers could shift to producing solar panels, wind turbines and other environmental products in an Eco-Capitalist system.\n\nScholar Elliot Sperber counters McKibben's argument, citing that industrial environmental mobilization favoring eco-capitalism would exacerbate socioeconomic stratification. Sperber counters the notion that \"full scale climate mobilization\" and the production it implies is the best immediate solution for addressing climate change. Because Eco Capitalism is still capitalistic, it relies on production of goods. Sperber argues for the production of fewer goods (i.e. fewer plastics, fewer vehicles) to minimize carbon footprints.\n\nApparent criticisms have risen concerns and need for social and economical transformation on both ends of the political and theoretical divide. Nonetheless, they have shaped the way the majority public has viewed and contributed to capitalism and continue to both actively change the innate structure of the economic system and enhance it for further economic stability.\n\nTom Randall, a correspondent specializing in renewable energy for Bloomberg, calls to attention that wind and solar (energy sources) are \"outperforming\" fossil fuels. In terms of investments, clean energy outperforms both gas and coal by a 2-1 margin. This positive margin may be attributed to the consistently falling price of renewable energy production. Renewable energy sources hold assertive advantages over fossil fuels because they exist as technologies, not fuels. As time proceeds, renewable energy becomes inevitably more efficient as technology adapts. Technologies for extracting fuels may change, but the fuels remain as constants. Both the solar and wind industries have proven growth over time: Over the last 15 years, the solar industry has doubled seven times and the wind industry has doubled four times. In contrast, the fossil fuel industry has declined over the last 15 years. America's coal industry has lost 75 percent of its value within the past few years.\n\nRenewable energy sources also gain advantages over the fossil fuel industry through international governmental support. Globally, governments implement subsidies to boost the renewable energy industry. Concurrently, various global efforts fight against fossil fuel production and use. The demand for renewable energy sources has skyrocketed in the last 15 years, while fossil fuels have drastically fallen in demand (in capitalist societies).\n\nThe worldwide concern of climate change (also known as global warming) is notably the largest contributor to the green energy industry's rapid acceleration, just as it is largely responsible for the decline of the fossil fuel industry. The overwhelming scientific consensus of climate change's reality and its potential catastrophic effects have caused a large part of the world's population to respond with panic and immediate action. While the world's response has been strong, environmentalists and climate scientists do not believe the response has been strong enough to counter climate change's effects, and that the transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources is moving far too slowly.\n\nThe global efforts and concerns of both governments and individuals to take action regarding implementing and transforming a society's energy sources from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources show the enormous potential of the green energy market. This potential is seen in the countless renewable energy projects under way. Currently, there are over 4,000 major solar projects being implemented. These, and all renewable energy projects, set goals of long-term economic benefit.\n\nThe Global Apollo Programme, set up by both economists and scientists, has a goal of creating a solar capability that can stand as a cheaper alternative to coal-fueled power plants by 2025. In capitalist markets, solar energy has the very real potential of becoming a direct competitor to coal plants in less than a decade.\n\nWhile there can be many barriers to the transition to a eco-capitalist system, one of the most daunting and forgotten is the systemic barrier that can be created by former models. Dimitri Zenghelis explores the idea of path dependence and the how continuing to build infrastructure without foresight seriously impedes the implementation and benefits of future innovations. Zenghelis uses the term “locked-in” to describe situations where the full implementation of a new innovation cannot be seen because an earlier infrastructure prevents it from functioning well. This barrier is exemplified in older cities like Los Angeles, San Francisco and New York where the infrastructure was designed around urban sprawl to accommodate private vehicles. The sprawl has been researched with the results returning that the moving forward mega-cities need to be constructed as eco-cities if the hope of curving emission levels down is going to have any hope.\n\n"}
{"id": "668700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668700", "title": "Erythritol", "text": "Erythritol\n\nErythritol ((2\"R\",3\"S\")-butane-1,2,3,4-tetrol) is a sugar alcohol (or polyol) that has been approved for use as a food additive in the United States and throughout much of the world. It was discovered in 1848 by Scottish chemist John Stenhouse. Erythritol was first isolated in 1852, but didn't become commercialized as a sugar alcohol until the 1990s in Japan.\n\nIt occurs naturally in some fruit and fermented foods. At the industrial level, it is produced from glucose by fermentation with a yeast, \"Moniliella pollinis\". Erythritol is 60–70% as sweet as sucrose (table sugar) yet it is almost noncaloric, does not affect blood sugar, does not cause tooth decay, and is partially absorbed by the body, excreted in urine and feces. Under U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) labeling requirements, it has a caloric value of 0.2 kilocalories per gram (95% less than sugar and other carbohydrates), though nutritional labeling varies from country to country. Some countries, such as Japan and the United States, label it as zero-calorie; the European Union labels it 0 kcal/g.\n\nIn the body, most erythritol is absorbed into the bloodstream in the small intestine, and then for the most part excreted unchanged in the urine. About 10% enters the colon. Because 90% of erythritol is absorbed before it enters the large intestine, it does not normally cause laxative effects, as are often experienced after consumption of other sugar alcohols (such as xylitol and maltitol), although large doses can cause nausea and stomach rumbling. In males, doses greater than 0.66 g/kg body weight and in females, doses greater than 0.8 g/kg body weight, will cause laxation. Given that erythritol is excreted in the urine, it can also been used as a tag in a drug tracking system, monitoring the consumption of a drug in testing via excretory waste tagged with erythritol.\n\nThe known side effects for the regular use of erythritol are stomach rumbling, nausea, and diarrhea in higher doses (over ). Rarely, erythritol can cause allergic hives (urticaria).\n\nWhen compared with other sugar alcohols, it is also much more difficult for intestinal bacteria to digest, so it is less likely to cause gas or bloating than other polyols, such as maltitol, sorbitol, or lactitol. Erythritol absorption is not affected by glucose levels, and therefore has great potential to be an effective substitute for sugar in diabetics.\n\nAccording to a 2014 study, erythritol functions as an insecticide toxic to the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\", impairing motor ability and reducing longevity even when nutritive sugars were available.\n\nErythritol is produced industrially beginning with enzymatic hydrolysis of the starch from corn to generate glucose. Glucose is then fermented with yeast or another fungus to produce erythritol. Other methods such as electrochemical synthesis are in development. A genetically engineered mutant form of Yarrowia lipolytica, a yeast, has been optimized for erythritol production by fermentation, using glycerol as a carbon source and high osmotic pressure to increase yields up to 62%.\n\nErythritol has a strong cooling effect (endothermic, or positive heat of solution) when it dissolves in water, which is often compared with the cooling effect of mint flavors. The cooling effect is present only when erythritol is not already dissolved in water, a situation that might be experienced in an erythritol-sweetened frosting, chocolate bar, chewing gum, or hard candy. The cooling effect of erythritol is very similar to that of xylitol and among the strongest cooling effects of all sugar alcohols. Erythritol has a pKa of 13.903 at 18˚C.\n\nErythritol is commonly used as a medium in which to deliver high-intensity sweeteners, especially stevia derivatives, serving the dual function of providing both bulk and a flavor similar to that of table sugar. Diet beverages are made with this blend, thus contain erythritol in addition to the main sweetener. Beyond high-intensity sweeteners, erythritol is often paired with other bulky ingredients that exhibit sugar-like characteristics to better mimic the texture and mouthfeel of sucrose. The cooling effect of erythritol is rarely desired, hence other ingredients are chosen to dilute or negate that effect. Erythritol also has a propensity to crystallize and is not as soluble as sucrose, so ingredients may also be chosen to help negate this disadvantage. Furthermore, erythritol is not hygroscopic, meaning it does not attract moisture, which can lead to the drying out of products, in particular baked goods, if another hygroscopic ingredient is not used in the formulation.\n\nInulin is often combined with erythritol because of inulin's offering a complementary negative heat of solution (exothermic, or warming effect when dissolved, which helps cancel erythritol's cooling effect) and noncrystallizing properties. However, inulin has a propensity to cause gas and bloating in those having consumed it in moderate to large quantities, in particular in individuals unaccustomed to it. Other sugar alcohols are sometimes used with erythritol, in particular isomalt, because of its minimally positive heat of solution, and glycerin, which has a negative heat of solution, moderate hygroscopicity, and noncrystallizing liquid form.\n\nErythritol is tooth-friendly; it cannot be metabolized by oral bacteria, so it does not contribute to tooth decay.\n\nErythritol is preferentially used by the \"Brucella\" bacteria spp. The presence of erythritol in the placentas of goats, cattle, and pigs has been proposed as an explanation for the accumulation of \"Brucella\" bacteria found at these sites.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, several synonyms were in use for erythritol: erythrol, erythrite, erythoglucin, eryglucin, erythromannite and phycite. Zerose is a tradename for erythritol.\n\n"}
{"id": "52180242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52180242", "title": "Frances Freeborn Pauley", "text": "Frances Freeborn Pauley\n\nFrances Freeborn Pauley (1905-2003) was a southern civil rights activist in Georgia, who battled against racial injustice and discrimination throughout her life. Due to her actions in the civil rights movement, she led to the eventual desegregation and integration of African Americans in the south.\n\nPauley was born on September 11, 1905, in Wadsworth Ohio. She was born to William Freeborn and Josephine Andrews Freeborn. Pauley's only sibling was her brother William Elbridge Freeborn. In 1908 at the age of three, Pauley moved with her family to Decatur, Georgia in DeKalb County. Pauley attended Decatur High School for her primary education, following onto Agnes Scott College. Pauley graduated in 1927 with a degree of Mathematics. At that time, due to the upbringing in both the Mid-west and the South, Pauley adopted a dual identity growing up.\n\nPauley began to work in public service during the Great Depression. She formed a church group with other women that worked to provide food and services to the impoverished citizens of DeKalb County. Her organization raised money to provide lunches to all students in public schools in the county. Pauley continued to work to provide services for those that did not have access to basic care, setting up a medical clinic in Decatur. Pauley was a prominent voice in her community in advocating for racial integration. As president of the League of Women Voters she repealed bylaws that restricted membership to only white women.\n\nPauley gathered support from other politicians and activists in the area, including Martin Luther King Jr. and became the executive director of the Georgia Council on Human relations in 1960 where she continued to work for further integration of schools and began to advocate for community organizations that encouraged participation and cooperation between citizens of differing races.\n\nPauley was then appointed to the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare in 1968 where she worked and advocated for the continued desegregation and protection of schools in Georgia and across the country. Pauley served in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare until 1973 when officially retired.\n\nThroughout her activism career, Pauley held many positions which resulted in her having a crucial role in the civil rights movement. These positions include: President of the DeKalb County League of Women Voters, President of the Georgia chapter of the League of Women Voters, Head of Georgia Council on Human Relations, and working as an administrator in Office of Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The culmination of these positions resulted in Frances Freeborn Pauley cementing her legacy as an influential individual in the southern civil rights moment. In every position which she held, Pauley attempted to promote equality and actively attempted to integrate African Americans into the structure of the institution. She was posthumously inducted into the Georgia Women of Achievement in 2015.\n\nAfter Graduation from Agnes Scott College in 1927 with a degree in mathematics, Pauley proceeded to assist in theatrical productions throughout DeKalb County as well as Atlanta, Georgia. Whilst directing a play at St. Philip's Episcopal Church, Frances Freeborn Pauley met a landscape architect by the name of William Crooks Pauley. This encounter resulted in their eventual marriage on May 25, 1930. Frances and William Pauley remained married throughout the extent of their lives and served as the parents to two daughters, Joan Pauley Lamb, and Marylin Pauley Beittel.\n"}
{"id": "29739336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29739336", "title": "Home safety", "text": "Home safety\n\nHome safety refers to the awareness and education of risks and potential dangers in and around a home which may cause bodily harm, injury, or even death to those residing in and around the physical structure of a home. It includes mitigating or preventing the unwanted dangers through testing, research and accepted standards of applications and practices.\n\nMolds are microscopic organisms that thrive in damp environments. They can be found on tiles and fabric, in bathrooms and kitchens, nearly any damp, warm place. Molds are usually not a problem indoors, unless mold spores land on a wet or damp spot and begin growing. Allergic reactions to molds are common. Allergic responses include high fever-type symptoms, such as sneezing, runny nose, and red eyes.\n\nSlip and trip- falling accidents at home are very common and can cause serious and life-threatening injuries, so prevention of slip and trip accidents is essential in the good design of living quarters. The objective is especially important for the elderly and disabled, who may be of restricted movement and more susceptible to hazards. It includes of adequate supports such as handrails and balustrades as well as ensuring walking surfaces are of high friction and thus slip resistant. Lighting is also vital for being bright enough to enable the user to see obstacles when walking into a room, for example. Users may also be provided with a walking stick or crutches to aid walking and personal support. Fall prevention is an active form of protection for users.\n\nRadon testing and mitigation – The two types of radon gas testing devices are, passive and active. A person can set up a kit in their home or hire a professional to perform the test. If the test result comes back with high concentrations of radon, there are ways to reduce radon gas and bring it to acceptable levels. There are proven methods to reduce radon in a home or building. One method uses a vent pipe system and fan, which pulls radon from beneath the house and vents it to the outside. This system, known as a soil suction radon reduction system, involves minor changes to your home.\n\nCarbon monoxide detectors – Carbon monoxide (CO) detectors located in key areas inside the home is a preventative measure against CO poisoning. The gas is created during incomplete combustion in central heating boilers as well as in open fires for example. Chimneys to such devices can become blocked, and so the gas can enter living spaces. Only very low levels are toxic and since the gas is odorless, is a serious hazard. For multi-level homes, it is recommended having a minimum of one carbon monoxide detector per floor. For added protection, put a CO detector in each room and a utility/furnace room.\n\nBurns/Fire:\n\nFamily safety plans – Family safety plans are an essential tool in fire safety because the plan helps family members to identify a fire escape plan. A safety plan includes knowing two ways out of every room, a safe place for members to meet outside of a burning home, and essential emergency telephone numbers. It is important to practice fire escape plans.\n\nSprinklers – Fire sprinklers offer a layer of protection because the sprinkler can respond to fire while it is still small. Fire sprinklers respond only the sprinkler closest to the heat source. Smoke alone will not set a fire sprinkler to discharge.\n\nHome Fire Escape Plans- Create a fire escape plan with two exits from every room, and conduct practice drills with the entire family at least once every six months. When creating the fire escape plan, draw a layout that shows each room and potential escape route in the home. Explain the escape plan to children and ensure that they recognize the sound of the fire alarm and know to check the door for heat and how to stay low to the ground.\n\nPoison - Always have the number of your local Poison Control Center available and familiarize yourself with what to do in case of poisoning. Know which plants are poisonous and remove them from your home. Keep all medications, including over-the-counter medications secured and out of the reach of children. DO NOT make a person throw up unless told to do so by poison control or a health care professional.\n\nThere are a number of organizations in the United States and other jurisdictions that release or maintain standards on the topic of home safety, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3164746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3164746", "title": "Human rights in Africa", "text": "Human rights in Africa\n\nIn Africa, the idea of \"human rights\" is a comparatively recent phenomenon. Contributing to the establishment of human rights system in Africa are the United Nations, international law and the African Union which have positively influenced the betterment of the human rights situation in the country. However, extensive human rights abuses still occur in many sections of the continent. Most of the violations can be attributed to political instability (as a consequence of civil war), racial discrimination, corruption, post-colonialism, economic scarcity, ignorance, illness, religious bigotry, debt and bad financial management,  monopoly of power, lack/absence of judicial and press autonomy, and border conflicts. Many of the provisions contained in regional, national, continental, and global agreements remained unaccomplished. \n\nThe African Charter is a human rights document made up of 68 articles carved up into four sections -- Human and Peoples’ Rights; Duties; Procedure of the Commission; and Applicable Principles. It merges the three clusters of rights, namely, civil and political rights, economic, social, and cultural rights, and group and peoples’ rights. It enforces obligations on individual members of each African society and connects the ideas of human rights, peoples’ rights, and duties on people.\n\nThe organ commissioned to interpret the Charter, as well as investigate individual complaints is the African Commission on Human and People's Rights (ACHPR). The ACHPR was established based on Art. 30 of the Charter and was inaugurated in November 1987. The ACHPR meets two times a year and its secretariat is headquartered in Banjul (Gambia). \n\nHuman rights are “rights one has simply because one is a human being.” These privileges and civil liberties are innate in every person without prejudice and where ethnicity, place of abode, gender, cultural origin, skin color, religious affiliation, or language, do not matter. The right to learn and to be knowledgeable about human rights is known as \"human rights education\". It basically refers to “all learning that develops the knowledge, skills, and values of human rights.”\n\nHuman rights education covers an extensive array of ideals and standards that include peace, justice and tolerance, egalitarianism, diplomacy, and value for human dignity. By upholding recognition of and advancing respect for human rights in all civilizations, it allows learners to dynamically contribute in putting together a sustainable and a non-violent future.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, human rights education is a purposeful, participatory practice intended to empower people and communities by nurturing the love for knowledge, encourage the acquisition of skills, and development of attitudes and mindset aligned with globally accepted standards. It aspires to put together a culture of respect for prompt action in the protection and encouragement of human rights for all citizens.\n\nIn law enforcement, human rights education aims to elevate learners’ consciousness  and understanding of rights agreements in order to guarantee the safeguarding of people's rights in a community, transparency in government dealings and activities, liability/responsibility in civic transactions, and the balanced and impartial employment of force.\n\nIn most cases, human rights education manifests through popular education or community education with the purpose of organizing people and activating constituencies in the expansion and intensification of social movements.These community-based models have been created and established in rustic areas of Latin America, Asia, and Africa. \n\nSuch human rights education efforts are seen as both a political and an academic approach to assist democratic processes and achieve dynamic citizenship. Given focus in these education efforts are civil, political, social, economic, and cultural rights and a combination of equality rights for certain type of groups. As a result, human rights education differs in substance, method and strategy, extent, concentration, profundity, and accessibility.\n\nSignificant improvements have been made toward the development of African women’s rights and female political involvement at both the national and local levels. The continent has espoused a number of lawful mechanisms, like the Maputo Protocol, declarations, such as the African Union Solemn Declaration on Gender Equality in Africa, and resolutions aimed to guarantee women’s rights. These instruments likewise created numerous monitoring entities to ensure the fulfillment of African women’s ideals. However, African women have continuously been confronted with absurd challenges in the sphere of economics, in their social lives, and in their positions within the community, specifically when it comes to healthcare and education. Sufficient healthcare, contraception awareness, and understanding of safe abortion is deficient because of the continent’s derisory health infrastructure, making it tough for women to have satisfactory access to health clinics. Moreover, African women incessantly tail behind African men in their facility to have access, use, and control of land and other resources, which make them defenseless in states of conflict and unprotected in times of calamities.\n\nThe Maputo Protocol fixes the values for women’s human rights in Africa. In this treaty, the description of violence against women distinguishes both physical and emotional aggression as well as threats of cruelty and sadism. It identifies the role of women in political and public life while persuading state parties to allocate more in time and money for legislation and other procedures that could secure equal representation of women and men in decision-making.\n\nThe protocol provides for the legal ban on female genital mutilation as well as the consent to abortion in cases of rape, incest, sexual mauling, and the continued pregnancy that threatens the mental and physical health/life of the mother or the fetus. It is also the first international human rights agreement to unequivocally talks about HIV/AIDS. Other provisions  contained in the protocol address established but destructive practices, child marriage, polygamy, inheritance, economic empowerment, women’s political participation, education, and women in armed conflict. \n\nDifferent types of violence and maltreatment wreak havoc on the lives of numerous children in Africa. These include economic and sexual abuse, gender bias in education, and being caught in the crossfire during armed conflicts. According to UNICEF, there are approximately 150 million children in the 5-14 age range who are engaged in hard labor and adult work. \n\nCreated to defend children and safeguard their innate rights, the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child (ACRWC) was created. It also serves as the major legal instrument within the African human rights system that clarifies the rights and privileges that African nations must guarantee to their children. Other concerns that African states want the charter to address include issues confronting children living under apartheid, child marriage, female genital mutilation (FGM), internal conflicts and displacement, rights of children whose mothers have been incarcerated, unsanitary living conditions, and the role of the family in adoption and fostering.\n\nAccording to the \"Paris Principles and Guidelines on Children Associated with Armed Forces or Armed Groups\", a child soldier is a “any person below 18 years of age who has been recruited or used by an armed force or armed group in any capacity, including but not limited to children, boys, and girls used as fighters, cooks, porters, messengers, spies or for sexual purposes.\" Child soldiers are often compulsorily drafted by use of force, by kidnapping them or by issuing grave threats to them. Others willingly sign up to avoid extreme hardships and poverty.\n\nOne of the biggest reasons for employing child soldiers is that they are viewed as dispensable, or “throwaways” and maintaining them does not cost much. They are also seen as more susceptible compared to adults, who already have more defined personalities. Since children lack a sense of apprehension, they accept more hazardous errands without analyzing what they are getting into.\n\nThere are nine international organizations working for the protection of African human rights, namely, \"Human Rights Watch\", \"International Committee of the Red Cross\", \"Global Rights\", \"Amnesty International\", \"International Federation for Human Rights\", \"Refugees International\", \"UN Watch\", \"Human Rights Foundation\", and \"Protection International\". \n\nIn Algeria, major human rights issues include unauthorized intrusion of privacy, establishment of laws barring specific of free expression, criminal defamation laws that are usually indistinct, restrictions on freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and association, corruption of government officials, lack or absence of independence and neutrality in the judiciary, gross domestic violence against women, prohibition of same sex activities, sexual abuse on LGBTI persons, and human trafficking. While the government took efforts in examining, taking legal action, and punishing public officials who commit violations, impunity for police and security officials still exists and remains a problem in this country.\n\nBy 2016 in Egypt, public criticism of the government was declared banned. People get arrested when they have been suspected or proven to be involved in protests or attended protest rallies. Travel bans were ordered and assets of known human rights organizations were seized or frozen. Criminal charges were directed at NGO directors and the head of the Press Syndicate and against Egypt's leading anti-corruption personality. Members of the security forces continue to persecute and torment detainees and hundreds of people have mysteriously disappeared with little or no accountability in the part of government officials for infringement of the law.\n\nAs of April 2018, a UN document reported that thousands of horrible human rights violations have been performed by state-affiliated militias in Libya. Based on Amnesty International reports, forces allied to existing competing governments -- in addition to the armed groups and private armies – continuously commit with grave callousness the desecration of global decrees and aggression towards human rights. These groups carry out random attacks in densely populated areas leading to thousands of civilian deaths. They persistently abduct, capriciously arrest and detain thousands of people for an indefinite period. Ruthless persecution and employment of other cruel methods were conducted inside prison cells. Women are confronted with abject discrimination, including illogical limitations on their right to travel. The death penalty continues to be in force. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27142489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27142489", "title": "Independent Payment Advisory Board", "text": "Independent Payment Advisory Board\n\nThe Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, was to be a fifteen-member United States Government agency created in 2010 by sections 3403 and 10320 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which was to have the explicit task of achieving specified savings in Medicare without affecting coverage or quality. Under previous and current law, changes to Medicare payment rates and program rules are recommended by MedPAC but require an act of Congress to take effect. The system creating IPAB granted IPAB the authority to make changes to the Medicare program with the Congress being given the power to overrule the agency's decisions through supermajority vote. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 repealed IPAB before it could take effect.\n\nBeginning in 2013, the Chief Actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services determined in particular years the projected per capita growth rate for Medicare for a multi-year period ending in the second year thereafter (the \"implementation year\"). If the projection exceeded a target growth rate, IPAB was to develop a proposal to reduce Medicare spending in the implementation year by a specified amount. If it was required to develop a proposal, the Board was to submit that proposal in January of the year before the implementation year; thus, the first proposal could have been submitted in January 2014 to take effect in 2015. If the Board failed to submit a proposal that the Chief Actuary certifies would achieve the savings target, the Secretary of Health and Human Services was to submit a proposal that would achieve that amount of savings. The Secretary was then to implement the proposal unless Congress enacted resolutions to override the Board's (or the Secretary's) decisions under a fast-track procedure that the law set forth.\n\nA related group, the Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update Committee (or Relative Value Update Committee; RUC), composed of physicians associated with the American Medical Association, also advises the government about pay standards for Medicare patient procedures, according to news reports.\n\nOn February 9, 2018, the United States Congress voted to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board as a part of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, by a vote of 71−28 in the US Senate and by a vote of 240−186 in US House of Representatives. Shortly thereafter that day, President Trump signed the budget bill into law, thereby repealing the IPAB.\n\nCongress created IPAB as a strengthened version of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC), a body with no regulatory power that solely advises Congress, but cannot enact regulations in and of itself. Since 1997, MedPAC had recommended cuts totaling \"hundreds of billions of dollars\" to Medicare that were ignored by Congress. Congress has pressured Medicare administrators to cover \"ineffective or needlessly costly methods of care,\" while Medicare's founding legislation says \"Nothing in this title shall be construed to authorize any Federal officer or employee to exercise any supervision or control over the practice of medicine.\" Henry Aaron, a health care expert at the Brookings Institution, said that many observers saw that some in Congress are \"in thrall to campaign contributors and producers and suppliers of medical services\" and most are not well enough informed to wisely use Medicare's buying power to reform health care. The idea behind the IPAB was to take power away from Congress (and special interests) in order to give it to those knowledgeable in health care policy.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Senator Jay Rockefeller introduced the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission Reform Act of 2009, which would have changed MedPAC into an executive branch agency. On July 17, 2009, the Obama Administration submitted to Congress a similar proposal called the Independent Medicare Advisory Council Act, which would have created an independent five-member executive council to make recommendations to the president. From June 17 to September 14, 2009, three Democratic and three Republican Senate Finance Committee members met for a series of thirty-one meetings to discuss the development of a health care reform bill. During this period, Senators Max Baucus (D-Montana), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Kent Conrad (D-North Dakota), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Jeff Bingaman (D-New Mexico), and Mike Enzi (R-Wyoming), met for more than sixty hours, and their discussions established the principles upon which the health care reform legislation that later passed was based. The Finance Committee included a provision establishing an independent Medicare advisory board in its health reform legislation, which passed the Senate on December 24, 2009.\n\nIPAB was tasked with developing specific proposals to bring the net growth in Medicare spending back to target levels if the Medicare Actuary determines that net spending was forecast to exceed target levels, beginning in 2015.\n\nWith regard to IPAB's recommendations, the law said: \"The proposal shall not include any recommendation to ration health care, raise revenues or Medicare beneficiary premiums under section 1818, 1818A, or 1839, increase Medicare beneficiary cost sharing (including deductibles, coinsurance, and co-payments), or otherwise restrict benefits or modify eligibility criteria.\" The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) was to implement these proposals unless Congress adopted equally effective alternatives. The board was also to be required to submit to Congress annual reports on health care costs, access, quality, and utilization. IPAB was to submit to Congress recommendations on how to slow the growth in total private health care expenditures.\n\nEvery year, on September 1, IPAB was to submit a draft proposal to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. On January 15 of the next year, IPAB was to submit a proposal to Congress. If IPAB failed to meet this deadline, the HHS was to create its own proposal. Congress was to consider this proposal under special rules. Congress could not consider any amendment to the proposal that would not achieve similar cost reductions unless both houses of Congress, including a three-fifths super majority in the Senate, voted to waive this requirement. If Congress failed to adopt a substitute provision by August 15, HHS was to implement the proposal as originally submitted to Congress.\n\nIPAB was to be composed of fifteen members appointed by the President, subject to Senate confirmation. The Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration were to serve \"ex officio\" as nonvoting members. In making the appointments, the President was to consult with the Majority Leader of the Senate concerning the appointment of three members; the Speaker of the House of Representatives concerning the appointment of three members, the Minority Leader of the Senate concerning the appointment of three members, and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives concerning the appointment of three members.\n\nThe first members appointed to the Board were to be divided into three staggered classes in order to ensure that their terms would not expire simultaneously. Five were to be appointed for a term of one year, five were to be appointed for a term of three years, and five were to be appointed for a term of six years. All subsequent appointments were to be made for six years. A member was not to serve more than two full consecutive terms.\n\nAppointed members of the IPAB were to include individuals with national recognition for their expertise in health finance and economics, actuarial science, health\nfacility management, health plans and integrated delivery systems, health facilities reimbursement, and other providers of health services or related fields to provide a mix of professionals, a broad geographic representation, and a balance between urban and rural areas. IPAB members were to include (but will not be limited to) physicians and other health professionals, experts in the area of pharmaco-economics or prescription drug benefit programs, employers, third-party payers, individuals skilled in the conduct and interpretation of biomedical, health services, and health economics research, and expertise in outcomes and effectiveness research and technology assessment. Members also were to include individuals representing consumers and the elderly. Individuals who were directly involved in providing or managing the delivery of Medicare items and services were not to constitute a majority of IPAB's membership.\n\nThe President of the United States was to establish a system for public disclosure by IPAB members of any financial and other potential conflicts of interest. No IPAB member was to be engaged in any other business, vocation or employment.\n\nMembers were to be paid at a rate described in Level III of the Executive Schedule that determines pay for senior executive branch officials. As of 2010, this was $165,300 a year.\n\nCongress appropriated $15 million for IPAB in 2012. Future funding for the agency was to be based on this figure adjusted for inflation.\n\nA 2009 \"Kaiser Health News\" article predicted primary care doctors would likely see benefits from an \"independent Medicare commission because the panel would be more likely to increase their fees and lower specialists' rates.\" While payment cuts to hospitals and hospices were to be off-limits until 2020, and clinical laboratories were to be off limits until 2016, physician fees could have been cut unless a doc fix to Medicare's sustainable growth rate formula made those cuts off limits. Other \"savings would have to have been found in private Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare's Part D prescription-drug program, or spending on skilled-nursing facilities, home-based health care, dialysis, durable medical equipment, ambulance services, and services of ambulatory surgical centers\". According to the New England Journal of Medicine, holding off creation of accountable care organizations (ACOs) was likely to be a bad long term strategy for physicians.\n\nCritics of IPAB charged that the board's cost-cutting mandate would inevitably bring about a reduction in care, despite the anti-rationing language in the bill. Congressman Phil Roe from Tennessee, a doctor, warned that IPAB would ration care through payment policy. American Medical News charged that the bill gave IPAB \"unprecedented, dangerous authority to cut Medicare pay rates and strangle access to care.\"\n\nHealth economist Uwe Reinhardt thought that given the \"dubious style of campaign financing of which we all are victims now,\" an independent Medicare commission was the U.S.'s only hope to restrain Medicare spending. Reinhardt criticized former chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health William Thomas' 1995 comment as emblematic of the spurious reasoning found in Congress. Of a payment system that resembled bundled payment, Thomas said, \"I'm not wild about a payment system that involves telling a bunch of innovative entrepreneurs that they can't be in the business anymore\". Reinhardt criticized this, saying Thomas \"seemed uninterested in what made more clinical and economic sense. His was purely an industrial policy, not a health policy. And his reasoning explains why, year in year out, Congress has rejected economically sensible proposals to attain greater efficiency in the Medicare program.\" Reinhardt compares the IPAB to a similar board in Germany, which he says is efficient, effective and civilized.\n\nPeter Orszag, who directed the CBO and OMB in the Obama administration, said the IPAB may have been the most important aspect of the Affordable Care Act. He said the board was \"created to help address our long-term fiscal imbalance while boosting quality in health care\". \"It's a very promising structure,\" said Orszag, but he cautioned that \"whether it realizes its potential depends on how it's implemented.\"\n\nDouglas Holtz-Eakin, a former CBO director and an economist who is currently president of a conservative political organization, thought that despite \"requirements that would force Congress to adopt the recommendations or find comparable savings,\" \"cuts will be politically infeasible, as Congress is likely to continue regularly to override scheduled reductions.\" In the words of Susan Dentzer, editor of \"Health Affairs\", Holtz-Eakin thought no IPAB \"will ever succeed in saving lawmakers from their own self-preserving instincts to pander.\"\n\nSen. John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas, introduced a bill in the Senate to prevent the creation of the IPAB. \"The Washington Post\" reported that Congressman and retired physician Phil Roe (R-TN) twice sponsored House bills to eliminate the IPAB, which was partially why he was regarded as a \"kindred soul\" by the medical industry. Roe charged that IPAB would deny care. However, the legislation governing IPAB bared \"any recommendation to ration health care.\"\n\nTom Daschle, the former Senate Democratic leader who was Obama's first choice for health secretary, argued that IPAB should have been expanded to cover all forms of health insurance in order to prevent doctors from shifting costs onto patients with private medical insurance. After voting for the 2010 health care reform, Pete Stark (D-Calif.), said that the IPAB \"sets [Medicare] up for unsustainable cuts\" that will endanger the health of patients, and that he would \"work tirelessly to mitigate the damage\" the panel would cause.\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America said that elimination of the payment board was its top priority in the 2011 Congress. The American Hospital Association and the American Medical Association (AMA) have spoken out against the board. The AMA wanted to change the IPAB requirement that members have no outside employment so working physicians could be considered. The AMA also opposed any independent commission which could cut physician payment rates.\n\nDr. J. Fred Ralston Jr., president of the American College of Physicians (ACP), expressed support for the idea behind the IPAB, saying \"making complex Medicare payment and budgetary decisions is very difficult within a political process with substantial lobbying pressures,\" but the group wanted to see significant changes. The ACP supported creating a position for a primary care physician on IPAB, additional protections to ensure that cost reductions would not lead to lower quality of care, authority for Congress to reject proposals made by IPAB via a simple majority vote, and equal treatment of all healthcare providers.\n\nDr. Elaine C. Jones, government relations committee cochair of the American Academy of Neurology stated, \"We are also very concerned about the power of the IPAB to cut payments to physicians. The sole function of the IPAB is to cut spending with little guarantee of maintaining quality, access, and scientifically proven care. There may be no physician representation on the board either. These elements are concerning and unacceptable.\"\n\nRon Pollack, the founding executive director of the health care advocacy group Families USA, advised Democrats against being divided and conquered by supporting repeal of specific portions of the health care reform, such as IPAB.\n\nTwo major nursing home associations, the American Health Care Association and the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, along with seventy two other healthcare groups, urged Congress to reject IPAB. They argued that the board would have had too much control over Medicare and would affect the ability of healthcare providers to lobby for changes in how they are reimbursed. The groups also argued that IPAB would have only been accountable to the president.\n\nThe American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons made IPAB a focus of their advocacy work. Hospital exemptions from 2015 to 2020 as well as the lack of practicing physicians on the board itself were major concerns. Lobbying efforts in April 2011 focused on making these modifications if not fully eliminating the board.\n\nMedical specialty groups spearheaded efforts to repeal IPAB. The American Society of Anesthesiologists and American Association of Neurological Surgeons co-lead a coalition of 26 medical specialties and patient organizations representing more than 350,000 physicians and their patients dedicated to repealing IPAB. The coalition endorsed efforts in the 113th Congress to repeal IPAB.\n\nHoward Dean, a consultant for Washington, D.C.-based lobbying firm McKenna, Long and Aldridge and former Democratic Governor of Vermont, believed the IPAB would fail to control costs and should be abolished. He opposed the premise of the board, writing in \"The Wall Street Journal\" that it was \"a health-care rationing body\" and that \"rate setting—the essential mechanism of the IPAB—has a 40-year track record of failure.\"\n\nIn an editorial opposing Sen. Cornyn's bill to repeal IPAB \"The Washington Post\" wrote, \"The political system failed when it came to controlling health-care costs. The 15-member panel that Mr. Cornyn et al. deride as 'beltway bureaucrats' would be a group of experts in the field, nominated by the president, chosen in part by congressional leaders of the opposing party and subject to Senate confirmation. Congress isn't bound by its proposals if lawmakers can come up with what they think is a better approach. Getting costs under control is going to require difficult choices – including, in the case of Medicare, difficult political choices. This unwise bill is not a good sign about Washington's willingness to make them.\"\n\nThe term \"death panel\" was used in conjunction with IPAB. Sarah Palin wrote in the \"Wall Street Journal\" that the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform \"implicitly endorses the use of \"death panel\"-like rationing by way of the new Independent Payments [sic] Advisory Board.\" \"The New York Times\" reported some Obama administration officials feared the Independent Payment Advisory Board could be \"target for attacks of the 'death panel' sort\"; An October 2010 National Right to Life article wrote the IPAB was \"a good candidate for the title of 'death panel,'\" and a December 2010 \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial associated 'death panels' with the IPAB.\n\nFormer OMB Director Orszag responded: \"I think it's only in Washington, D.C., that a board created to help address our long-term fiscal imbalance while boosting quality in health care and that is specifically by law prohibited from rationing care could be called a death panel\".\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that IPAB would achieve Medicare spending reductions of $28 billion through 2019—amounting to 0.4 percent of the projected Medicare spending of ~$7 trillion for the period.\n\nIn March 2011, the CBO estimated the Medicare baseline level of spending would not exceed targets throughout the years of 2015 to 2021; thus, the IPAB was not expected to affect any Medicare spending.\n\nThe 2010 presidential commission, the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, issued a report on reducing the federal deficit and voted 11 to 7 to strengthen the IPAB. It wished to bring forward the time by which health care providers would be affected by IPAB decisions. The recommendations \"would hit hospitals the hardest, which gained an exemption from the group's decisions for several years.\"\n\nAs part of legal challenges from conservative organizations and state attorneys general in about twenty states to the Affordable Care Act, Arizona's conservative Goldwater Institute, along with three Republican congressman from Arizona, filed a suit challenging the constitutionality of the IPAB. \"The Hill\" reported that \"while the suit illustrates conservative frustration with the federal government, the courts rarely strike down advisory boards created by Congress.\" The suit was dismissed in 2012. The Ninth Circuit found for the government on appeal, and the Supreme Court declined to hear a further appeal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1239455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1239455", "title": "Irvine Laidlaw, Baron Laidlaw", "text": "Irvine Laidlaw, Baron Laidlaw\n\nIrvine Alan Stewart Laidlaw, Baron Laidlaw (born 12 December 1942 in Keith, Banffshire, Scotland) is a British businessman, and a former member of the House of Lords. In the \"Sunday Times Rich List 2012\" ranking of the wealthiest people in the UK he was placed 105th with an estimated fortune of £745 million.\n\nThe son of a Banffshire mill-owner, Laidlaw was educated at Merchiston Castle School, Leeds University and New York City's Columbia Business School. Laidlaw, a former member of the House of Lords, also donated $2 million to Columbia Business School for scholarships and increased opportunities for Business students. \n\nIrvine Laidlaw founded The Laidlaw Undergraduate Internship Programme in research and Leadership at the University of St Andrews, after donating to the cause. He is also an honorary graduate at the university. As well as the being the founder, Laidlaw is a trustee of The Laidlaw Schools Trust (LST), which was approved by the DfE as a multi-academy sponsor. It was established on 24 May 2012.\n\nAfter graduation, Laidlaw turned a small US publishing company bought in 1973 into the Institute for International Research (IIR), the world's largest conference organiser. After calling off a £500m flotation in 2001 when the market plunged, he sold in 2005 for a sum believed to be in the order of £768m.\n\nLaidlaw previously owned and raced a Jaguar, which won Le Mans a number of times throughout the 1950s, along with a number of other vintage cars, including a 1962 Ferrari GTO. in 2013, Irvine Laidlaw stopped racing. He recently sold a collection of classic sports cars to raise £17 million.\n\nIn 1988 Laidlaw founded Abbey Business Centres, a subsidiary of IIR providing serviced office space, meeting room facilities and virtual office packages in 13 business centres in Great Britain. The first business centre opened in Glasgow, and soon the company opened up another centre in Slough, Berkshire. Other centres were added, and in 2009 a total of 13 centres made up the organisation.\n\nIn 2015, the University of Leeds launched an official opening for the £26 million Laidlaw Library, named after Irvine Laidlaw, who had previously studied economics at the University in the 1960s. His £9 million donation is the largest the university has received from any donor. Laidlaw part owns a $2.1 billion wind-farm project, and earlier this year secured the largest clean-energy financing in 2015 from eight lenders, which included Deutsche Bank AG.\n\nOne of the largest financial backers of the UK's Conservative Party, Laidlaw was made a life peer as Baron Laidlaw, of Rothiemay in Banffshire on 14 June 2004. According to the records of the UK Electoral Commission, on 27 November 2007, Laidlaw gave a donation of £2,990,532.20 to the Conservatives. Laidlaw donated £25,000 to the 2008 London Mayoral election campaign of Boris Johnson.\n\nIn 2008, Lord Laidlaw was described by \"The Guardian\" as a \"Monaco-based tax exile\".\n\nLord Laidlaw was criticised in April 2007 in the press for failing to become UK tax resident despite being appointed to the House of Lords. The BBC said that, in a letter seen by them, Laidlaw \"cites a variety of personal reasons\" for non-compliance. Criticism by Dennis Stevenson, Baron Stevenson of Coddenham, chair of the House of Lords Appointments Commission, on assurances given to the Commission by Laidlaw to become a UK tax resident by April 2004, were followed by Laidlaw taking leave of absence from the House of Lords. In 2010 following the enactment of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 he stepped down from his seat in the House of Lords to maintain his non-domiciled status and so be able to avoid paying UK residents' taxes.\n\nIn 2004, Laidlaw said that he would over the next 20–30 years donate most of his fortune to helping disadvantaged young people. His main vehicle was the Laidlaw Youth Project, which supported a range of charitable work for disadvantaged youngsters in Scotland from 2004 to 2007 when it became the Laidlaw Youth Trust. He has also donated:\n\n\nIn 2007, he set up the Laidlaw Youth Trust which from 2007 to 2009 spent over £6 million in Scotland on good causes related to disadvantaged children and young people. In 2007, in emerged that the Scottish Executive had given sufficient donations to pay the salary of the CEO Laidlaw Youth project, Maureen McGinn – who is also the wife of Scotland's most senior civil servant, Sir John Elvidge.\n\nIn 2008, Laidlaw became a sponsor to Excelsior Academy in Newcastle's West End. He donated £30,000,000 towards the construction of the school.\n\nHe closed the Trust in 2009 because he was spending more time in South Africa and said he wanted to focus his charitable giving there. It is not known how much he has gifted in his new adopted country but he was involved in some township housing project.\n\nIn 2014, an undergraduate internship scheme was set up at the University of St. Andrews through a donation from Lord Laidlaw who is an honorary graduate of the University.\n\nLaidlaw and his wife Christine divide their time between an apartment in Monaco overlooking the harbour; and their South African home, an early 20th-century 23,200 m estate in Noordhoek, near Cape Town. At the time of the purchase, in November 2005, it was the country's most expensive property, bought for R106 million.\n\nLaidlaw regularly competes in historic car racing around the world with his Porsche 904GTS, Porsche 904/6, Maserati 250S & Maserati 6CM. Laidlaw also won a medal in the Scottish amateur rally, using a Ford Focus ST. In 2007 Laidlaw added a 1001 hp Bugatti Veyron to his extensive car collection, which is sometimes seen between Noordhoek and Cape Town, on the world-famous coastal road Chapman's Peak Drive.\n\nLaidlaw has won the Key West Regatta twice using his Swan 60 cruiser-racer, \"Highland Fling\". He began a voyage around the world in Oceanco built motor yacht, the \"Lady Christine\", in 2003. Highland Fling XI won the Round the Island Race 2017.\n\nIn April 2008, Laidlaw was the target of a sting operation staged by investigative journalist Mazher Mahmood on behalf of the British tabloid \"The News of the World,\" which revealed that Laidlaw hires up to five £3,000 vice girls at a time for all-night orgies involving spanking, bondage and lesbian sex at his Monaco home. After submitting a written confession to the newspaper in which he allegedly confesses a lifetime fighting sex addiction, Laidlaw has reportedly checked himself into a six-week residential sex addict programme in South Africa, and donated £1 million to help fellow sufferers.\n\n"}
{"id": "47368631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47368631", "title": "Kameido incident", "text": "Kameido incident\n\nThe Kameido incident took place in 1923 in the aftermath of the Great Kantō earthquake.\n\nOn September 1, 1923, the Great Kantō earthquake struck Tokyo and Yokohama and martial law was imposed in the aftermath of the earthquake. On the evening of September 3, the Kameido police in Tokyo began arresting known social activists, suspecting that they would \"spread disorder or forment revolution amid the confusion\". During the mass arrests, police arrested union leader Hirasawa Keishichi, and Nakatsuji Uhachi, a member of the Pure Laborers' Union. The Special Higher Police arrest seven members of the Nankatsu Labor Association. Army troops detained an eighth member of the association, Sato Kinji.\n\nBetween late at night on September 3 and September 5, troops of the 13th Cavalry Regiment on emergency duty in Kameido shot and decapitated Hirasawa and nine others. They disposed of the bodies, together with those of Korean and Chinese massacre victims, along the banks of the Arakawa drainage canal. The police issued an official notice on October 14, claiming that troops had shot the men because they were agitating prisoners. The following year, the Liberal Lawyers' Association and union leaders worked to bring the facts to light and establish responsibility, with partial success. Police claimed to have cremated the remains of the victims. With no remains to bury, a memorial service was held in February 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24921775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24921775", "title": "Klain Bund", "text": "Klain Bund\n\nKlain Bund (Yiddish for 'Little Bund') was a youth organization in the Russian empire, connected to the General Jewish Labour Bund in Lithuania, Poland and Russia. Klain Bund was founded in 1903.\n\nKlain Bund recruited secondary school pupils, students, apprentices and young workers. The average age of Klain Bund-members was around fourteen. Sometimes members joined at ages of 10-12. Often Klain Bund members were children of Bund members. Klain Bund provided socialist education for its members. Members also helped the mother party in its activities, such as collecting funds for striking workers or maintaining communications with Bundist self-defense groups.\n\nKlain Bund was later superseded by a new Bundist youth organization, \"Tsukunft\" ('Future').\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31583390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31583390", "title": "List of bordering countries with greatest relative differences in GDP (PPP) per capita", "text": "List of bordering countries with greatest relative differences in GDP (PPP) per capita\n\nThis is a list of bordering countries with the greatest relative differences in GDP (PPP) per person; specifically those pairs of neighbouring countries where the richer country is at least twice as wealthy on a per capita basis than the poorer. These statistics however do not consider differences in other economic indicators that measure welfare, such as their human development index, or inequality within countries.\n\nThe greatest cases of inequity typically would involve an impoverished and politically unstable country neighbouring a resource-rich and relatively stable one, although neither may be recognised as a high-income economy. As an extreme example, the GDP per capita for Saudi Arabia, is over 42 times greater to that of its neighbour Yemen. In the four biggest ratios, the poorer country is either Yemen or North Korea.\nDue to lack of economic data, the Vatican City (which is surrounded by Italy), Saint Martin (which shares the island of Saint Martin with Sint Maarten) and the British Overseas Territories of Akrotiri and Dhekelia located in the island of Cyprus, are not included in this list.\n\n"}
{"id": "2700066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2700066", "title": "List of royal saints and martyrs", "text": "List of royal saints and martyrs\n\nThis list of royal saints and martyrs enumerates Christian monarchs, other royalty, and nobility who have been beatified or canonized, or who are otherwise venerated as or conventionally given the appellation of \"saint\" or \"martyr\". Their names are in English and, where known, in their own language. When the status of a nominee is dubious the whole entry is \"italicized\".\n\nThis section enumerates Christian sovereigns, as opposed to mere consorts, who are enumerated in \"Other royalty and nobility\" below.\n\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church classifies various holy persons who have not been canonized as saints in the inferior categories of beati, venerabili, and servants of God. These titles indicate grades on the path to canonization in that church.\n\n\nThis section enumerates Christian royalty, including consorts but not sovereigns, and nobility. Christian sovereigns, while also \"royalty\", are exclusively enumerated in \"Monarchs\" above.\n\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church classifies various holy persons who have not been canonized as saints in the inferior categories of beati, venerabili, and servants of God. These titles indicate grades on the path to canonization in that church.\n\n\nKing David of the United Monarchy of ancient Israel and Kings Hezekiah and Josiah of the southern Kingdom of Judah are traditionally considered to be in Heaven by Catholic dogma. They are named as saints of the Old Testament by the Orthodox Church, as numerous calendars, services for their intercession, and the custom of naming them patron saints attest. Some heterodox, however, do not recognise them as saints because they lived before the time of Christ.\n\n"}
{"id": "467693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467693", "title": "Lords Spiritual", "text": "Lords Spiritual\n\nThe Lords Spiritual of the United Kingdom are the 26 bishops of the established Church of England who serve in the House of Lords along with the Lords Temporal. The Church of Scotland, which is Presbyterian, and the Anglican churches in Wales and Northern Ireland, which are no longer established churches, are not represented.\n\nThe Church of England comprises 42 dioceses, each led by a diocesan bishop. The Archbishops of Canterbury and York, as Primate of All England and Primate of England, respectively, have oversight over their corresponding provinces. The occupants of the five \"great sees\"—Canterbury, York, London, Durham and Winchester—are always Lords of Parliament. The Bishop of Sodor and Man and the Bishop of Gibraltar in Europe may not sit in the House of Lords regardless of seniority as their dioceses lie outside both of England and of the United Kingdom. (The former, however, sits on the Legislative Council of the Isle of Man \"ex officio\".) Of the remaining 35 bishops, the 21 most senior sit in the House of Lords. Seniority is determined by total length of service as an English diocesan bishop (that is to say, it is not lost by translation to another see).\n\nTheoretically, the power to elect archbishops and bishops is vested in the diocesan cathedral's college of canons. Practically, however, the choice of the archbishop or bishop is made prior to the election. The Prime Minister chooses from among a set of nominees proposed by the Crown Nominations Commission; the sovereign then instructs the college of canons to elect the nominated individual as a bishop or archbishop.\n\nOne of the Lords Spiritual is appointed by the Archbishop of Canterbury to be the \"convenor\" of the bench; he or she coordinates the work of the bishops in the House. David Urquhart, Bishop of Birmingham, was appointed the current convenor on 18 May 2015.\n\nEven during the early years of the Peerage, the position of bishops was unclear. During the reign of King Richard II, the Archbishop of Canterbury declared, \"of right and by the custom of the realm of England it belongeth to the Archbishop of Canterbury for the time being as well as others his suffragans, brethren and fellow Bishops, Abbots and Priors and other prelates whatsoever, — to be present in person in all the King's Parliaments whatsoever as Peers of the Realm\". The claim was neither agreed nor disagreed to, however, by Parliament.\n\nThe Lords Spiritual at first declared themselves entirely outside the jurisdiction of secular authorities; the question of trial in the House of Lords did not arise. When papal authority was great, the King could do little but admit a lack of jurisdiction over the prelates. Later, however, when the power of the Pope in England was reduced, the Lords Spiritual came under the authority of the secular courts. The jurisdiction of the common courts was clearly established by the time of Henry VIII, who declared himself head of the Church of England in place of the Pope, ending the constitutional power of the Roman Catholic Church in England.\n\nDespite their failure to be tried as temporal peers in the House of Lords, it remained unclear whether the Lords Spiritual were indeed peers. In 1688, the issue arose during the trial of the Seven Bishops—William Sancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury; Sir Jonathan Trelawny, 3rd Baronet, Bishop of Winchester; Thomas Ken, Bishop of Bath and Wells; John Lake, Bishop of Chester; William Lloyd, Bishop of Worcester; Francis Turner, Bishop of Ely and Thomas White, Bishop of Peterborough—by a common jury. The charge was that a petition sent by the Bishops constituted seditious libel; the Bishops argued that they had the right to petition the Sovereign at any time, while the prosecution charged that such a right was only permissible when Parliament was in session (which, at the time of the delivery of the petition, it was not). If the bishops were only Lords of Parliament, and not peers, their right to petition would be vitiated while Parliament was dissolved. Peers, however, were and still are counsellors of the Sovereign whether Parliament is in session or not; therefore, if the bishops were indeed peers, they would be free to send petitions. Since there was no doubt that the petition was actually sent, while the Court still ruled the bishops not guilty, it appears that it was taken for granted that the bishops were counsellors of the Crown.\n\nNevertheless, the \"Standing Orders of the House of Lords\" provide, \"Bishops to whom a writ of summons has been issued are not Peers but are Lords of Parliament.\"\n\nIn the early history of the Parliament of England, the Lords Spiritual—including the abbots—outnumbered the Lords Temporal. Between 1536 and 1540, however, King Henry VIII dissolved the monasteries, thereby removing the seats of the abbots. For the first time and thereafter, Lords Spiritual formed a minority in the House of Lords.\n\nIn addition to the 21 older dioceses (including four in Wales), Henry VIII created six new ones, of which five survived (see historical development of Church of England dioceses); the Bishops of the Church of England were excluded in 1642 but regained their seats following the Restoration; from then until the early nineteenth century no new sees were created, and the number of lords spiritual remained at 26.\n\nBishops, abbots, and priors, of the Church of Scotland traditionally sat in the Parliament of Scotland. Laymen acquired the monasteries in 1560, following the Scottish Reformation, and therefore those sitting as \"abbots\" and \"priors\" were all laymen after this time. Bishops of the Church of Scotland continued to sit, regardless of their religious conformity. Roman Catholic clergy were excluded in 1567, but Episcopal bishops continued to sit until they too were excluded in 1638. The bishops regained their seats following the Restoration, but were again excluded in 1689, following the final abolition of diocesan bishops and the permanent establishment of the Church of Scotland as Presbyterian. There are no longer bishops in the Church of Scotland in the traditional sense of the word, and that church has never sent senior clergy to sit in the House of Lords at Westminster.\n\nBishops and archbishops of the Church of Ireland were entitled to sit in the Irish House of Lords as Lords Spiritual. They obtained representation in the Westminster House of Lords after the union of Ireland and Great Britain in 1801. Of the Church of Ireland's ecclesiastics, four (one archbishop and three bishops) were to sit at any one time, with the members rotating at the end of every parliamentary session (which normally lasted approximately one year). The Church of Ireland, however, was disestablished in 1871, and thereafter ceased to be represented by Lords Spiritual.\n\nThe Bishop of Sodor and Man, although a Bishop of the Church of England, has never been included among the English Lords Spiritual, as the Isle of Man has never been part of the Kingdom of England or of the United Kingdom. The Lord Bishop is the holder of the oldest office in Tynwald (the oldest continuous parliament in the world) and remains an \"ex officio\" member of Tynwald and its Legislative Council.\n\nIn the 19th century the dioceses of the Church of England began gradually to come under review again. However an increase in the bench of bishops was not considered politically expedient, and so steps were undertaken to prevent it. In 1836, the first new bishopric was founded, that of Ripon; but it was balanced out by the merger of the Bishoprics of Bristol and Gloucester. (They were later divided again.) The creation of the Bishopric of Manchester was also planned but delayed until St Asaph and Bangor could be merged. They never were; but in 1844, the Bishopric of Manchester Act 1847 went ahead anyway with an alternative means to maintain the 26-bishop limit in the House of Lords: the seniority-based proviso which has been maintained to this day. However, the Lords Spiritual (Women) Act 2015 gives any woman appointed a diocesan bishop in England during the next decade priority in terms of succeeding those among the current 21 who retire during that period. Rachel Treweek became Bishop of Gloucester and the first woman Lord Spiritual under the Act in 2015; Christine Hardman became the second later that year.\n\nIn 1920, with the independence of the Church in Wales from the Church of England and its disestablishment, the Welsh bishops stopped being eligible for inclusion.\n\nThe 26 seats for the Lords Spiritual are approximately 2600/round1% of the total membership of the House of Lords.\n\nAlthough the Lords Spiritual have no party affiliation, they do not sit on the crossbenches, their seats being on the Government side of the Lords Chamber. As such, their seats are on the right-hand side of the throne, representing the fact that they, of all the members of the House of Lords, are the most loyal to the Crown. Though in a full sitting the Bishops occupy almost three rows, the Lords Spiritual's front bench is subtly distinguished by being the only one in the House with a single armrest at either end; it is on the front row, close to the throne end of the chamber, indicating their unique status.\n\nBy custom at least one of the Bishops reads prayers in each legislative day (a role taken by the Chaplain to the Speaker in the Commons). They often speak in debates; in 2004 Rowan Williams, then Archbishop of Canterbury, opened a debate into sentencing legislation. Measures (proposed laws of the Church of England) must be put before the Lords, and the Lords Spiritual have a role in ensuring that this take place.\n\nOther ecclesiastics have sat in the House of Lords as Lords Temporal in recent times: Chief Rabbi Immanuel Jakobovits was appointed to the House of Lords (with the consent of the Queen, who acted on the advice of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher), as was his successor Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks. In recognition of his work at reconciliation and in the peace process in Northern Ireland, Robin Eames, the Anglican Archbishop of Armagh, was appointed to the Lords by John Major. Other clergymen appointed include the Methodist Donald Soper, the Anglican Timothy Beaumont, and some Scottish clerics.\n\nThere have been no Roman Catholic clergymen appointed, though it was rumoured that Basil Hume, the Archbishop of Westminster, and his successor Cormac Murphy O'Connor were offered peerages, by James Callaghan, Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair respectively, but declined. Hume later accepted the Order of Merit, a personal appointment of the Queen, shortly before his death. O'Connor said he had his maiden speech ready, but ordained Roman Catholics are prohibited by the internal Canon Law of the Roman Catholic Church from holding major offices connected with any government other than the Holy See.\n\nFormer Archbishops of Canterbury, having reverted to the status of bishop but who are no longer diocesans, are invariably given life peerages and sit as Lords Temporal.\n\nUnder the 2011 Coalition Government draft proposal for Lords reform, the Lords would be either 80% elected and 20% appointed, or 100% elected. In the former case there would be 12 Church of England bishops in the reformed Upper House. The total of 12 bishops would include the five \"named Lords Spiritual\" (the Archbishops of Canterbury and York and the Bishops of Durham, London and Winchester, entitled as they are to sit \"ex officio\") plus seven other \"ordinary Lords Spiritual\" (diocesan bishops chosen by the church itself through whatever device it deems appropriate). The reduction from 26 to 12 bishops would be achieved in a stepped fashion: up to 21 bishops would remain for the 2015–2020 period and up to 16 for the 2020–2025 period. The ordinary Lords Spirituals' terms would coincide with each \"electoral period\" (i.e., the period from one election to the next), with the church able to name up to seven to serve during each electoral period. These reforms were later dropped.\n\nUnder the Lords Spiritual (Women) Act 2015 whenever a vacancy arises among the Lords Spiritual during the ten years (18 May 2015 – 18 May 2025) following the Act coming into force, the vacancy has to be filled by a woman, if one is eligible. This does not apply to the sees of Canterbury, York, London, Durham and Winchester.\n\nThe presence of the Lords Spiritual in the House of Lords has been criticised for being an outdated and non-democratic system by some media commentators and organisations. The British Humanist Association said it was \"unacceptable\" that \"the UK is the only Western democracy to give religious representatives the automatic right to sit in the legislature\".\n\nRichard Chartres, when Bishop of London, defended the bishops, saying they are \"in touch with a great range of opinions and institutions\", and suggesting the inclusion of \"leading members in Britain's [other] faith communities\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57245753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57245753", "title": "Mica Bay Incident", "text": "Mica Bay Incident\n\nThe Mica Bay Incident was a land and resources dispute in along the shore of Lake Superior in November 1849. It is partially responsible for the signing of the 1850 Robinson-Huron Treaty.\n\nThe Mica Bay Incident occurred immediately prior to the signing of the Robinson-Huron Treaty. The political tensions leading up to it reflect ongoing Indigenous concerns around land rights, mineral extraction, and corporate/crown encroachment on traditional territories.\n\nIn 1849 a group of First Nations and Métis people were displeased with ongoing mineral extraction by local mining companies. This mining was occurring outside of a negotiated treaty and contrary to the 1763 Royal Proclamation's statements on Indigenous land and resource rights. In November 1849 a group traveled from Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario to Mica Bay on the shore of Lake Superior. Upon arrival at Mica Bay the group attacked copper mining sites established by the Quebec Mining Company, with the goal of forcing the Company off the land. Over 100 soldiers were sent to put down the incident and in December a number of the leaders were arrested and detained in Toronto.\n\nLeaders of the incident included Chief Shingawukonse (Garden River First Nation), Chief Nebenaigoching (Batchewana First Nation), Chief Oshawana, Allan Macdonell, Metcalfe, and others.\n\nThe Mica Bay incident is known as the tipping point which forced the government to negotiate treaty agreements with Indigenous communities in the Lake Huron and Lake Superior region.\n"}
{"id": "45274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45274", "title": "Military fiat", "text": "Military fiat\n\nMilitary fiat is a process whereby a decision is made and enforced by military means without the participation of other political elements. The Latin term \"fiat\", translated as \"let it be,\" suggests the autocratic attitude ascribed to such a process. For example, many coups involve the imposition of a new government by military fiat.\n\nHistorically, military fiat had no relation to particular theories of economics or how to use the power of the state (\"political science\"). It was simply seized by the powerful with some support from empowered citizens - typically resulting in a monarchy where power was passed on to heirs with no public consultation. Over time, this evolved into consultative systems, e.g. of other nobles holding fiefdoms, e.g. of public in parliaments. \n\nIn democracies, however, the political parties who run for office to represent the public will, must agree to certain guarantees to use power for public good - the relation between military and police powers is clearer but not obvious. In all countries, some fundamental decisions are made by the administration \"without the participation of other political elements\", and in general the administration of money has been one of those functions. Public recourse is limited if the state relies on any other nation for major military support, e.g. then-communist Poland's and East Germany's reliance on the Soviet Union. So \"a decision is made and enforced by military means\" could be anything done by the administration or bureaucracy as a normal part of its foreign policy.\n\nTheories vary on how to measure \"participation of other political elements.\" \n\nIn economics, fiat is one of three ways to guarantee the value of money, credit money and commodity money being alternatives - but both relying to some degree on the fiat. True fiat money has no trust or product value of its own, but is backed only by trust in the issuing government and its ability to collect taxes or require conversion of some other resource into currency.\n\nThis view is questioned by some theories of political economy that argue that there is always some intrinsic reliance on trust, or expectation of the delivery of the commodity itself. Critics of these views argue that withholding taxes in domestic trade or defying powerful nations regarding trade in narcotics or arms will very rapidly prove dangerous or fatal to some of the participants - and, furthermore, that at least some of these decisions are unpopular and are not reflective of the public will. This is a common accusation made by the anti-globalization movement which argues that governments have been elected on a mandate to oppose global free trade and instead pursued it.\n\nThe use of the military fiat to back economic transactions is what a given theory of political economy actually justifies, e.g. in the political economy of capitalism, military force is justified by the protection of property rights (which are presumed to optimize economic outcomes). Adam Smith defined \"defense, infrastructure, justice, education and a stable currency\" as the role of government. All defined, in his time, 1776, strictly by a military fiat in most countries, although Britain had a nascent democracy. When the United States broke with the British Empire and its military hegemony in that same year, it was to establish a fiat of its own.\n\nSmith wrote specifically against monetarism, where fiat would be exploited to protect favored industries, monopolize precious metals, and other goals that were not generally shared between the state and the more general public. \n\nThe later contributions of David Ricardo and John Stuart Mill led to the first theory of (classical) political economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1019750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019750", "title": "Missile Technology Control Regime", "text": "Missile Technology Control Regime\n\nThe Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) is a multilateral export control regime. It is an informal and voluntary partnership among 35 countries to prevent the proliferation of missile and unmanned aerial vehicle technology capable of carrying above 500 kg payload for more than 300 km.\n\nThe Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) was established in April 1987 by the G7 countries: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America. The MTCR was created in order to curb the spread of unmanned delivery systems for nuclear weapons, specifically delivery systems that could carry a payload of 500 kg for a distance of 300 km. \n\nAt the annual meeting in Oslo on 29 June - 2 July 1992, chaired by Mr. Sten Lundbo, it was agreed to expand the scope of the MTCR to include nonproliferation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) for all weapons of mass destruction. Prohibited materials are divided into two Categories, which are outlined in the MTCR Equipment, Software, and Technology Annex. Membership has grown to 35 nations, with India joining on 27th of June 2016 adhering to the MTCR Guidelines unilaterally.\n\nSince its establishment, the MTCR has been successful in helping to slow or stop several ballistic missile programs, according to the Arms Control Association: “Argentina, Egypt, and Iraq abandoned their joint Condor II ballistic missile program. Brazil and South Africa also shelved or eliminated missile or space launch vehicle programs. Some Eastern European countries, such as Poland and the Czech Republic, destroyed their ballistic missiles, in part, to better their chances of joining MTCR.” In October 1994, in order to make the enforcement of MTCR Guidelines more uniform, the member states established a “no undercut” policy, meaning if one member denies the sale of some technology to another country, then all members must say no.\n\nThe People's Republic of China is not a member of the MTCR but has agreed to abide by the original 1987 Guidelines and Annex, but not the subsequent revisions. China first verbally pledged that it would adhere to the MTCR in November 1991, and included these assurances in a letter from its Foreign Minister in February 1992. China reiterated its pledge in the October 1994 US-China joint statement. In their October 1997 joint statement, the United States and China stated that they agree \"to build on the 1994 Joint Statement on Missile Nonproliferation.\" In 2004 China applied to join the MTCR, but members did not offer China membership because of concerns about China's export control standards.\n\nIsrael, Romania and Slovakia have also agreed to voluntarily follow MTCR export rules even though not yet members.\n\nThe regime has its limitations; countries within the MTCR have been known to violate the rules clandestinely. China, India, Iran, Israel, North Korea, and Pakistan continue to advance their missile programs. Some of these countries, with varying degrees of foreign assistance, have deployed medium-range ballistic missiles that can travel more than 1,000 kilometers and are exploring missiles with much greater ranges, Israel and China in particular having already deployed strategic nuclear SLCMs and ICBMs and satellite launch systems. Some of these countries, which are not MTCR members, are also becoming sellers rather than simply buyers on the global arms market. North Korea, for example, is viewed as the primary source of ballistic missile proliferation in the world today. China has supplied ballistic missiles and technology to Pakistan. China supplied DF-3A IRBMs to Saudi Arabia in 1988 before it had informally agreed to follow MTCR guidelines. Iran has supplied missile technology to Syria. Due to its non-member MTCR status Israel is unable to export its Shavit space launch system to foreign customers though in 1994 the US Clinton administration did allow an import waiver for US companies to buy the Shavit.\n\nIn 2002, the MTCR was supplemented by the International Code of Conduct against Ballistic Missile Proliferation (ICOC), also known as the Hague Code of Conduct, which calls for restraint and care in the proliferation of ballistic missile systems capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction, and has 119 members, thus working parallel to the MTCR with less specific restrictions but with a greater membership.\n\nIndia formally applied for membership to the group in June 2015, with active support from France and the United States, and officially became a member on 27 June 2016 with the consensus of the 34 member nations.\n\nThe ballistic and cruise missile threat continues to increase with the development of missile technology. Over 20 countries have ballistic missile systems.\n\nThe MTCR has 35 members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1181356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1181356", "title": "National Council of Resistance of Iran", "text": "National Council of Resistance of Iran\n\nThe National Council of Resistance of Iran (NCRI; ) is an Iranian political organization based in France. The organization has appearance of a broad-based coalition, however many analysts consider NCRI and the People's Mujahedin of Iran (MEK) to be synonymous, taking the former to be an umbrella organization or alias for the latter, and recognize NCRI as only \"nominally independent\" political wing or front for MEK. Both organizations are considered to be led by Massoud Rajavi and his wife Maryam Rajavi.\n\nThe State Department refused to have contact with it since the 1980s, though it was reportedly left free to conduct its activities on American soil. MEK was identified as a foreign terrorist organization in October 1997. On 15 August 2003, being considered an alias of MEK, the United States also determined that NCRI was a terrorist organization being delisted seven years later on 28 September 2012. On 21 December 2001, Australia added the organization, alias of MEK, to its 'Consolidated List' subject to the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373.\n\nThe NCRI was originally an umbrella organization of Iranian dissident groups that shared an opposition to Ayatollah Khomeni and Islamic Republic, but it lasted no more than two or three years.\n\nIt was formed by People's Mujahedin of Iran (MEK) leader, Massoud Rajavi, and former president of Iran Abolhassan Banisadr in 1981, who co-chaired the council. They were later joined by National Democratic Front (NDF) and Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran (KDPI). Unlike KDPI, the other leftist major Kurdish opposition Komala Party of Iranian Kurdistan refused to join the alliance. The council also received unequivocal support from the Labour Party of Iran. It caused a break up in the Fedaian Organisation (Minority), when Organization of Iranian People's Fedai Guerrillas (In Search of Identity Program) led by Mehdi Sameh split the former in order to join the NCRI, with less than a handful of members.\n\nDespite presence of well-known personalities such as Nasser Pakdaman, Bahman Nirumand, Mehdi Khanbaba Tehrani, Mansour Farhang and several others, the organization was dominated by MEK.\n\nIn 1983, elements united with NCRI began to depart the alliance because of conflicts with the MEK. Due to \"violent pro-Iraq activities of MEK in the Iran–Iraq War\", the NDF and Banisadr withdrew from the council. On 24 March 1983, Banisadr officially left the council. On 14 April 1985, the KDPI left the organization because they preserved their independence to decide to negotiate with Iran's regime.\n\nIn January 1983, Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz and NCRI President Massoud Rajavi signed a peace plan \"based on an agreement of mutual recognition of borders as defined by the 1975 Algiers Agreement.\" According to James Piazza, this peace initiative became the NCRI´s first diplomatic act as a \"true government in exile.\n\nIn the Iran–Iraq War the MEK/NCRI formed an alliance with Saddam Hussein, who was largely responsible for its financing, together with Saudi Arabia at that time, though the NCRI also employed fraud to bolster its funding.\nNCRI was transformed from an umbrella organization into a MEK subsidiary `. Despite being controlled by MEK, the NCRI disguises itself as the \"parliament-in-exile\" of the \"Iranian Resistance\", claiming to fight for the establishment of a democratic and secular republic in Iran, on a platform espousing such political values as secular government, democratic elections, freedom of expression, equal rights for women and human rights. It still claims to be an umbrella organization with multiple member groups, such as the \"Association of Iranian Scholars and Professionals\" and the \"Association of Iranian Women\", which are in fact shell organizations established by the MEK to make the NCRI appear more \"representative\". Other MEK front organizations include \"Muslim Student Association\", the \"Towhidi Society of Guilds, the \"Movement of Muslim Teachers\", the \"Union of Instructors in Universities and Institutions of Higher Learning\", and the \"Society for the Defense of Democracy and Independence in Iran\".\n\nMEK leader Maryam Rajavi is the designated \"president-elect\" of the organization, i.e. President of Iran for the transitional period.\n\n\nDespite NCRI claims, as of 2009, details of the group remained little known in the West, and very few legislators asctively endorsed it. Resurgence of the group's foreignjh fortunes is tethered to the fact that it exposed Iran's nuclear programme in 2002.\n\nThe NCRI is regarded by the Iranian government as a terrorist organization, and was classified as a Foreign Terrorist Organisation by the United States, alleging that the NCRI \"is not a separate organization, but is instead, and has been, an integral part of the MEK at all relevant times\" and that the NCRI is \"the political branch\" of the MEK rather than \"vice versa\". However, it is no longer considered terrorist. On September 28, 2012, the US State Department formally removed MEK from its list of terrorist organizations in a decision made by then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, ahead of an October 1 deadline set by a US appeals court.\n\nSome top US officials such as Dick Armey (the former House majority leader 1995–2003) have suggested that the State Department wrongly included MEK in the terrorist list from the beginning. Alireza Jafarzadeh was its official representative in the US until the Washington office was closed by the US State Department in 2002 on the grounds that it was only a front group for the MEK by then listed as a terrorist organisation in the US. It has been alleged that the inclusion of NCRI and MEK in the list was a token offered to the theocratic regime of Iran rather than based the facts of the matter. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\" \"Senior diplomats in the Clinton administration say the MEK figured prominently as a bargaining chip in a bridge-building effort with Tehran.\" The Journal added that: In 1997, the State Department added the MEK to a list of global terrorist organizations as \"a signal\" of the US's desire for rapprochement with Tehran's reformists, said Martin Indyk, who at the time was assistant secretary of state for Near East Affairs. President Khatami's government \"considered it a pretty big deal,\" Indyk said.\n\nThe European Union in May 2004 implied that NCRI is part of the People's Mujahedin of Iran (rather than vice versa) and excluded the NCRI itself from a list of organisations considered to be terrorist organisations, including the People's Mujahedin of Iran \"minus the National Council of Resistance of Iran\" on its list of terrorist organisations.\nOn January 26, 2009, EU Council of Ministers agreed to remove the MEK from the EU terror list. The group said it was the outcome of a \"seven-year-long legal and political battle\". The European Union had previously listed the MEK on its list but excluded the NCRI itself from the list of organizations considered to be terrorist organizations.\n\nA large majority of Iran's population regards it as a terrorist group, disliking the assistance it provided to Iran's enemy Saddam Hussein in the wake of the Iraqi invasion of Iran. It has an active global network, and engages in propaganda and lobbying in many Western capitals.\n\nThe Middle East department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) in the United Kingdom stated in early 2006 that it is widely understood that \"Iran's [nuclear] program, which was kept secret from the IAEA for 18 years, became public knowledge largely because of revelations of the NCRI, and this led to heightened international concern.\" At the same time Michael Axworthy, former head of the Iran section at the FCO, claimed that the NCRI is a \"tightly disciplined front organization for the MEK and deemed them unreliable.\"\n\nAccording to Rand Corporation analysts, the NCRI has hidden the Marxist-Islamic elements in MEK's programme from Western eyes in advancing a secular democratic platform. The NCRI has in the past three decades recorded and reported human rights violations in Iran to UN Special Rapporteurs, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Amnesty International and other international human rights organisations. At the same time, despite NCRI claims that it espouses equal rights for women, in practice strict gender segregation is practiced in those areas it has controlled, as, for example, at Camp Ashraf.\n\nIn a meeting at the Council of Europe in April 2006, Maryam Rajavi, President-elect of the NCRI, elaborated on the movement's vision for a future Iran and presented a Ten Point Plan for Future Iran, according to the organisation's website.\n\nThe plan has been supported by British MPs, some arguing that it is a potential programme that \"would transform Iran\" since it calls for the abolition of the death penalty, the creation of a modern legal system and the independence of judges.\n\nAt a debate on human rights situation in Iran in the House of Lords on December 8, 2016, Lord Alton of Liverpool said, \"The manifesto says: Cruel and degrading punishments will have no place in the future Iran\". Madam Rajavi would end Tehran's funding of Hamas, Hezbollah and other militant groups and is committed to peaceful coexistence, relations with all countries and respect for the United Nations charter.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29943652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29943652", "title": "National Security Service (Armenia)", "text": "National Security Service (Armenia)\n\nNational Security Service of the Republic of Armenia () is a state agency of Armenia, responsible for national security and intelligence.\n"}
{"id": "86646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86646", "title": "National myth", "text": "National myth\n\nA national myth is an inspiring narrative or anecdote about a nation's past. Such myths often serve as an important national symbol and affirm a set of national values. A national myth may sometimes take the form of a national epic or be incorporated into a civil religion. A group of related myths about a nation may be referred to as the national mythos from μῦθος the original Greek word for \"myth\".\n\nA national myth is a legend or fictionalized narrative which has been elevated to a serious mythological, symbolic, and esteemed level so as to be true to the nation. It might simply over-dramatize true incidents, omit important historical details, or add details for which there is no evidence; or it might simply be a fictional story that no one takes to be true literally, but contains a symbolic meaning for the nation. The national folklore of many nations includes a founding myth, which may involve a struggle against colonialism or a war of independence. In many cases, the meaning of the national myth is disputed among different parts of the population.\n\nIn some places, the national myth may be spiritual in tone and refer to stories of the nation's founding at the hands of a God, several gods, leaders favored by gods, and other supernatural beings.\n\nNational myths serve many social and political purposes. National myths often exist only for the purpose of state-sponsored propaganda. In totalitarian dictatorships, the leader might be given, for example, a mythical supernatural life history in order to make him or her seem god-like and supra-powerful (see also cult of personality). However, national myths exist in every society. In liberal regimes they can serve the purpose of inspiring civic virtue and self-sacrifice (Miller 1995), or of consolidating the power of dominant groups and legitimizing their rule.\n\nNational myths have been created and propagated by national intellectuals, who have used them as instruments of political mobilization on demographic bases such as ethnicity.\n\nThe concept of national identity is inescapably connected with myths. A complex of myths is at the core of every ethnic identity. Some scholars believe that national identities, supported by invented histories, were constructed only after national movements and national ideologies emerged.\n\nAll modern national identities were preceded by nationalist movements. Although the term \"nation\" was used in the Middle Ages, it had totally different meaning than in the age of nationalism, where it was linked to the efforts aimed to creation of the nation-states.\n\nBesides their social background, nationalist myths have also a psychological explanation which is connected with nationalist myth of stable homeland community. The complexity of relations with the modern external world and incoherence of the inner psychological world can result with anxiety which is reduced by static self-labelling and self-construction and gaining an imaginary emotion of stability.\n\nTwo of nationalism's primary myths are connected with beliefs in:\n\nThe nationalist myths portray the nation as sleeping and waiting to be awakened, but scholarly discourse avoids such images because national identity either exists or not and can not be asleep and awakened.\n\nNationalist myths sometimes have a tendency to stimulate conflicts between nations, to magnify distinctive characteristics of the national group and to overstate the threat to the nation posed by other groups propagating militant fulfilment of their goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2826040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826040", "title": "Nobel Peace Center", "text": "Nobel Peace Center\n\nThe Nobel Peace Center () in Oslo, Norway is a showcase for the Nobel Peace Prize and the ideals it represents. The Center is also an arena where culture and politics merge to promote involvement, debate and reflection around topics such as war, peace and conflict resolution.\n\nThe Nobel Peace Center was opened in 2005 by His Majesty King Harald V of Norway in a ceremony attended by the royal families of Norway and Sweden. Nobel Peace Prize laureate Wangari Maathai was also present. The Center has since welcomed more than 400,000 visitors (as of 1 October 2009). The Nobel Peace Center is located in the former Oslo Vestbanestasjon (Oslo West railway station) building. Dating from 1872, the former station building was drawn by architect Georg Andreas Bull. It ceased to be used as a railway station in 1989. It is overlooking the harbor and located close to the Oslo City Hall where the Nobel Peace Prize Award Ceremony takes place every 10 December, to commemorate Alfred Nobel’s death. \n\nBritish architect David Adjaye is responsible for the Center’s creative design, including its color schemes; the American designer David Small developed its hi-tech installations. The Nobel Peace Center is financed by the Norwegian Ministry of Culture, private sponsors and admission fees. Temporary exhibitions are fully sponsored.\n\nThe Center presents the Nobel Peace Prize laureates and their work, in addition to telling the story of Alfred Nobel and the other Nobel prizes. This is done using multimedia and interactive technology, exhibitions, meetings, debates, theater, concerts and conferences, as well as a broad educational program and regular guided tours.\n\nThe Nobel Peace Center is a foundation and part of a network of Nobel institutions represented externally by the Nobel Foundation, which also administers informational activities and arrangements surrounding the presentation of the Nobel Prize. Bente Erichsen is director of the Nobel Peace Center. Geir Lundestad is chairman of the Center’s board, which is appointed by the Norwegian Nobel Committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19217621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19217621", "title": "Nonintrusive load monitoring", "text": "Nonintrusive load monitoring\n\nNonintrusive load monitoring (NILM), or nonintrusive appliance load monitoring (NIALM), is a process for analyzing changes in the voltage and current going into a house and deducing what appliances are used in the house as well as their individual energy consumption. Electric meters with NILM technology are used by utility companies to survey the specific uses of electric power in different homes. NILM is considered a low-cost alternative to attaching individual monitors on each appliance. It does, however, present privacy concerns.\n\nNonintrusive load monitoring was invented by George W. Hart, Ed Kern and Fred Schweppe of MIT in the early 1980s with funding from the Electric Power Research Institute.\nThe basic process is described in . As shown in figure 1 from the patent, a digital AC monitor is attached to the single-phase power going into a residence. Changes in the voltage and current are measured (i.e. admittance measurement unit), normalized (scaler) and recorded (net change detector unit). A cluster analysis is then performed to identify when different appliances are turned on and off. If a 60-watt bulb is turned on, for example, followed by a 100-watt bulb being turned on, followed by the 60-watt bulb being turned off followed by the 100-watt bulb being turned off, the NIALM unit will match the on and off signals from the 60-watt bulb and the on and off signals from the 100-watt bulb to determine how much power was used by each bulb and when. The system is sufficiently sensitive that individual 60-watt bulbs can be discriminated due to the normal variations in actual power draw of bulbs with the same nominal rating (e.g. one bulb might draw 61 watts, another 62 watts).\nThe system can measure both reactive power and real power. Hence two appliances with the same total power draw can be distinguished by differences in their complex impedance. As shown in figure 8 from the patent, for example, a refrigerator electric motor and a pure resistive heater can be distinguished in part because the electric motor has significant changes in reactive power when it turns on and off, whereas the heater has almost none.\n\nNILM systems can also identify appliances with a series of individual changes in power draw. These appliances are modeled as finite state machines. A dishwasher, for example, has heaters and motors that turn on and off during a typical dish washing cycle. These will be identified as clusters, and power draw for the entire cluster will be recorded. Hence “dishwasher” power draw can be identified as opposed to “resistor heating unit” and “electric motor”.\n\n\nNILM can detect what types of appliances people have and their behavioral patterns. Patterns of energy use may indicate behavior patterns, such as routine times that nobody is at home, or embarrassing or illegal behavior of residents. It could, for example, reveal when the occupants of a house are using the shower, or when individual lights are turned on and off.\n\nIf the NILM is running remotely at a utility or by a third party, the homeowner may not know that their behavior is being monitored and recorded. \n\nA stand-alone in-home system, under the control of the user, can provide feedback about energy use, without revealing information to others. Drawing links between their behavior and energy consumption may help reduce energy consumption, improve efficiency, flatten peak loads, save money, or balance appliance use with green energy availability. However the use of a stand-alone system does not protect one from remote monitoring.\n\nThe accuracy and capability of this technology is still developing and is not 100% reliable in near-real-time, such that complete information is accumulated and analyzed over periods ranging from minutes to hours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8393351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8393351", "title": "Nínive Clements Calegari", "text": "Nínive Clements Calegari\n\nNínive Clements Calegari is an educator in the United States. Following ten years of classroom experience in public schools, she became an author and founded a national literacy program, 826 National. She also founded The Teacher Salary Project. Currently she is the CEO of Enterprise for Youth, a job readiness program serving youth all around the Bay Area. \n\nCalegari went to Santa Catalina School and graduated in 1989, later going to Middlebury College to receive her bachelor's degree in 1993 and a Masters in Teaching and Curriculum from the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1995.\nShe worked at Leadership High School, San Francisco's first charter school, where she also served on the Board of Directors, and then taught in her family's hometown in Mexico.\n\nCalegari was a co-founder of 826 Valencia in April 2002 and the founding executive director. \nThe group and the seven other related chapters of 826 National (which she also co-founded and headed) are a group of non-profit writing centers for students ages 6–18.\n\nCalegari, along with Dave Eggers and Daniel Moulthrop, co-authored the book \"Teachers Have It Easy: The Big Sacrifices and Small Salaries of America's Teachers\", published by The New Press in 2005. It argues that increasing teachers' salaries is a critical part of meaningful school reform, and essential to ensuring US students receive education from quality teachers.\n\nCalegari founded and serves as CEO of The Teacher Salary Project, a non-profit designed to build the political will necessary to transform how US society values effective teachers. The project uses film, social media, and the general public to communicate its mission. The Teacher Salary Project's film, \"American Teacher\", held its first preview screening in May 2011 at the San Francisco International Film Festival. It was also featured in numerous other film festivals, including the United Nations Association Film Festival and Philadelphia International Film Festival. The film was produced by Calegari and Eggers, and directed and produced by filmmaker Vanessa Roth.\nThe film is narrated by actor Matt Damon with music composed by San Francisco musician Thao Nguyen.\n\nIn 2008, Calegari was appointed by San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom to the San Francisco Arts Commission.\nShe served on the board of Learning Points Associates, and as an advisor to the George Lucas Education Foundation.\n\nIn 2014, Calegari gave a TEDx talk at Santa Catalina School on the importance of valuing teachers. In 2015, Calegari and the Teacher Salary Project released two short films, Laney's story and Kory's story, which follow two teachers struggling to make ends meet on a teacher's salary. The two short films were featured in a video on ATTN: which received over 12 million views.\n\nCalegari has been the recipient of a National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship, the William Coe Award for study at Stanford University and the Andrew Mellon Fellowship. In 2007, Calegari received Edutopia's 2007 Daring Dozen award. \n\nThe Jim Henson Community Honor in 2010 was awarded to 826 National. Calegari was awarded the Hidden Villa Humanitarian Award, along with Dave Eggers, in September 2016. Calegari and Eggers were given the Jefferson Award for their work with 826 Valencia in November 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15493531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15493531", "title": "Pashtunization", "text": "Pashtunization\n\nPashtunization (), also called Pathanization, is a process of cultural or linguistic change in which someone or something non-Pashtun becomes accultured to Pashtun influence. The Pashtun people are the largest ethnic group in Afghanistan and the second largest in Pakistan.\n\nPeople become Pashtunized when they settle in Pashtun-dominated areas and adopt Pashtun culture, either by adapting the Pashto language or absorbing Pashtunwali customs. Pashtunization is a specific form of cultural assimilation and has been taking place in Pashtun-populated regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan for several centuries.\n\nThe Khalji were originally Turkic tribes who had long domiciled in Afghanistan and gradually adopted the Pashtun culture. Some of them left the area during the Mongol invasion of Central Asia towards the Indian subcontinent, where they built empires such as the Khalji dynasty of Delhi. They are considered by historians as ethnic Afghans (Pashtuns).\n\nPashtunization may also refer to the settling of Pashtun tribes onto lands where non-Pashtun tribes live or more broadly the erosion of the customs, traditions and language of non-Pashtun peoples due to the political power and regional influence of the Pashtuns. This occurred in the Peshawar sub-region in the early 16th century, during the period of the Suri dynasty of Delhi. It intensified in the mid-18th century under Pashtun emperor Ahmad Shah Durrani, when he conquered non-Pashtun territories and established the Durrani Empire. During the reign of Abdur Rahman Khan in the late 19th century, some Pashtuns settled in the north of the country, while Tajiks from the north were brought to the south. This was done for political reason, mainly to prevent Russian invasion. In the meantime, thousands of Hazaras left Hazarajat to settle in Quetta (now in Pakistan) and Mashad in what is now Iran.\n\nSome Pashtunization attempts were later made in the early part of the 20th century by the Musahiban or more recently by the Taliban (read Talibanization). Some non-Pashtun ethnic groups who live in close proximity with Pashtuns have adopted Pashtunwali.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38860861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38860861", "title": "Pedro Guanikeyu Torres", "text": "Pedro Guanikeyu Torres\n\nPedro Guanikeyu Torres, also known as Peter Guanikeyu Torres is a Taino Native American civil rights activist, tribal leader, educator, language teacher, tribal historian, Actor and a Taino Indian Nationalist of Puerto Rico.\n\nTorres's academic background includes studies in Cultural Anthropology, Puerto Rican studies, Art and Latin American studies. Torres graduated from Rutgers University, the State University of New Jersey at Livingston College in June 1977.\n\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s Torres did research aimed at documenting Taino artifacts and history through the CPI Comite Pro Indigenismo. In the mid 1970s Torres had translated the very first theater script from the Spanish language to the Taino language as a former Actor and member of El Grupo Guazabara (The Guazabara Theater Group). In 1993 he founded the Taino Inter-Tribal Council (TITC, Inc.), a not-for-profit Taino cultural-educational organization. He worked at various archaeological sites, including Puerto De Tierra in the 1970s. For over five (5) decades and many years, Torres has advocated the reclaiming and repatriation of artifacts pertaining to the past Pre-Columbian historical territory of the principal regional Chief Orocobix of the Jatibonicu Taino tribe, a tribe located in the central mountain region of Puerto Rico. It should be mentioned that Torres is credited and recognized as being a Taino Native Civil Rights activist and one of the original founding Fathers of the 1968 Taino Indian Movement of Puerto Rico.\n\nHe is an activist for the official government recognition of the Taino American Indian people and his Jatibonicu Taino tribal community of Puerto Rico and in New Jersey. As tribal leader, Torres is politically active in Taino tribal council government, national and international political affairs.\n\nOften known as Don Pedro or Chief Guanikeyu, in 1996 Torres called for the \"Taino national unity of all the Taino Indian people. In 2000, Torres represented the Jatibonicu Taino Tribal Nation before the U.S. Census Bureau. As part of his Taino tribal activism he has written various papers and articles on the relevancy of Taino culture and the history of Tainos in Puerto Rico, Florida and adjacent areas.\n\nTorres also performed as a Taino language teacher and researcher. As a tribal leader, he conducted the traditional Taino Guatiao (naming ceremony) and has bestowed the Taino name on many modern Taino people today. He also promoted the Taino language when he was chosen to name a crater on planet Venus that he named Nanichi \"My Love or My Heart\" in the year 2000.\n\nDue to failing health, in 2001, Guanikeyu Torres withdrew from the leading role of his Taino tribal community and assumed the post of tribal elder.\n\n"}
{"id": "52587501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52587501", "title": "Presidency of Thabo Mbeki", "text": "Presidency of Thabo Mbeki\n\nThe Presidency of Thabo Mbeki began on 14 June 1999, when Thabo Mbeki became then second President of South Africa. Mbeki an African National Congress (ANC) member who had previously been the Deputy President of South Africa defeated Democratic Alliance (DA) presidentian, Tony Leon in the South African general election, 1999. Mbeki's running mate Jacob Zuma became the Deputy President that same day.\n\nMbeki's Inauguration was held on 6 June 1999, at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. Mbeki was sworn in as president by Chief Justice of South Africa, Arthur Chasckalon.\n\nDuring his inaugural speech Mbeki said the following:\n"}
{"id": "10963746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10963746", "title": "Proletarian literature", "text": "Proletarian literature\n\nProletarian literature refers here to the literature created by working-class writers mainly for the class-conscious proletariat. Though the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" states that because it \"is essentially an intended device of revolution\", it is therefore often published by the Communist Party or left wing sympathizers, the proletarian novel has also been categorized without any emphasis on revolution, as a novel \"about the working classes and working-class life; perhaps with the intention of making propaganda\". This different emphasis may reflect a difference between Russian, American and other traditions of working-class writing, with that of Britain. The British tradition was not especially inspired by the Communist Party, but had its roots in the Chartist movement, and socialism, amongst others. Furthermore, writing about the British working-class writers, H Gustav Klaus, in \"The Socialist Novel: Towards the Recovery of a Tradition\" (1982) suggested that \"the once current [term] 'proletarian' is, internationally, on the retreat, while the competing concepts of 'working-class' and 'socialist' continue to command about equal adherence\".\n\nThe word proletarian is also used to describe works about the working class by working-class authors, to distinguish them from works by middle-class authors such as Charles Dickens (\"Hard Times\"), John Steinbeck (\"The Grapes of Wrath\"), and Henry Green (\"Living\"). Similarly, though some of poet William Blake's (1757–1827) works are early examples of working-class literature, including the two \"The Chimney Sweeper\" poems, published in \"Songs of Innocence\" in 1789 and \"Songs of Experience\" in 1794, which deal with the subject of child labour, Blake, whose father was a tradesman, was not a proletarian writer.\n\nThe proletariat are members of the working class. The proletarian novel is a subgenre of the novel, written by workers mainly for other workers. It overlaps and sometimes is synonymous with the working-class novel, socialist novel, social problem novel (also problem novel or sociological novel or social novel), propaganda or thesis novel, and socialist realism novel.\n\nThe proletarian novel may comment on political events, systems and theories, and is frequently seen as an instrument to promote social reform or political revolution among the working classes. Proletarian literature is created especially by communist, socialist and anarchist authors. It is about the lives of poor, and the period 1930 to 1945 in particular produced many such novels. However, there were works before and after these dates. In Britain the term working class literature, novel \"etc\". is more generally used. The intention of the writers of proletarian literature is to lift the workers from the slums, by inspiring them to embrace the possibilities of social change or a political revolution. As such it is a form of political fiction.\n\nThe most important American working-class writers gathered in the First American Writers Congress of 1935. The League of American Writers was backed by the Communist Party USA. Among the famous international writers who attended the Congress were Georg Fink (pseudonym of the German writer ), Mike Gold of New York (both of whom were Jewish), José Revueltas of Mexico, of Chile, Jorge Icaza of Ecuador, and numerous others.\n\nIn the United States, Mike Gold, author of \"Jews Without Money\", was the first to promote proletarian literature in Max Eastman's magazine \"The Liberator\" and later in \"The New Masses\". The Communist party newspaper, \"The Daily Worker\" also published some literature, as did numerous other magazines, including \"The Anvil\", edited by Jack Conroy, \"Blast\", and \"Partisan Review\".\n\nOther examples of American proletarian writing include B. Traven, \"The Death Ship\" (1926) (though it is presumed that Traven was born in Germany); Agnes Smedley, \"Daughter of Earth\" (1929); Edward Dahlberg, \"Bottom Dogs\" (1929); Jack Conroy, \"The Disinherited\" (1933); James T. Farrell, \"Studs Lonigan\" (a trilogy, 1932-5); Robert Cantwell, \"The Land of Plenty\" (1934); Henry Roth, \"Call It Sleep\" (1934); Meridel Le Sueur, \"Salute to Spring\" (1940) and Tillie Olsen, \"\" (1930s, published 1974).\n\nWriters like John Steinbeck, Theodore Dreiser, and John Dos Passos, who wrote about the working class, but who came from more well-to-do backgrounds, are not included here.\n\nAn important movement In the first years of the Russian Revolution, Proletkult, was an effort to encourage literacy. This was something quite different from the later, traditional and realist proletarian novel of the Stalin years.\n\nIn the 1930s Socialist realism became the predominant trend in Russia. Its leading figure was Maxim Gorky, who had laid the foundations of this style with his works \"The Mother\" and his play \"The Enemies\" (both 1906). Gorky described the lives of people in the lowest strata and on the margins of society, revealing their hardships, humiliations, and brutalization. However, he did not come from a working-class family and neither did another prominent writer in the early years after the Russian Revolution of 1917, Alexander Ostrovsky.\n\nHowever, Nikolay Ostrovsky is an important writer, of the early Soviet era, from a working-class family. His novel \"How the Steel Was Tempered\" (1932) has been among the most successful works of Russian literature, with tens of millions of copies printed in many languages around the world. The book is a fictionalized autobiography of Ostrovsky's life, who had a difficult working-class childhood and became a Komsomol member in July 1919 and went to the front as a volunteer. The novel's protagonist, Pavel Korchagin, represented the \"young hero\" of Russian literature: he is dedicated to his political causes, which help him to overcome his tragedies.\n\nLeonid Leonov (1899 — 1994) was a Soviet novelist and playwright. His novel \"The Russian Forest\" (1953) was acclaimed by the authorities as a model Soviet book on World War II and received the Lenin Prize, but its implication that the Soviet regime had cut down \"the symbol of Old Russian culture\" caused some nervousness, and Nikita Khrushchev reminded the author that \"not all trees are useful ... from time to time the forest must be thinned.\"\n\nPoet John Clare (1793–1864) was an important early British working-class writer. Clare was the son of a farm labourer, and came to be known for his celebratory representations of the English countryside and his lamentation of its disruption. His poetry underwent a major re-evaluation in the late 20th century and he is now considered to be among the most important 19th-century poets. His biographer Jonathan Bate states that Clare was \"the greatest labouring-class poet that England has ever produced. No one has ever written more powerfully of nature, of a rural childhood, and of the alienated and unstable self\".\n\nA mid-Victorian example of a working-class novel is chartist Thomas Martin Wheeler's \"Sunshine and Shadows\", which was serialized in the \"Northern Star\" 1849-50. Another chartist writer was the shoemaker poet Thomas Cooper, who, while in prison for making an inflammatory speech, \"followed in the footsteps of Bunyan and other radicals and wrote imaginatively about the themes of oppression and emancipation\".\n\nWalter Greenwood's \"Love on the Dole\" (1933) has been described as an \"excellent example\" of an English proletarian novel. It was written during the early 1930s as a response to the crisis of unemployment, which was being felt locally, nationally, and internationally. It is set in Hanky Park, the industrial slum in Salford where Greenwood was born and brought up. The story begins around the time of the General Strike of 1926, but its main action takes place in 1931.\n\nSeveral working-class writers wrote about their experience of life in the merchant navy, including James Hanley, Jim Phelan, George Garrett, and John Sommerfield. Liverpool-Irish writer James Hanley wrote a number of works based on his experiences at sea as well as a member of a working-class seafaring family. An early example is the novella \"The Last Voyage\" (1931), in which stoker John Reilly, who is still working only because he lied about his age, now faces his last voyage. Although Reilly is in his mid-sixties he has a young family, who will have to live in future on his inadequate pension. In another sense this is Reilly's last voyage, because despairing of the future he throws himself into the ship’s furnace: “Saw all his life illuminated in those flames. ‘Not much for us. Sweat, sweat. Pay off. Sign on. Sweat, sweat. Pay off. Finish. Ah, well!’” Among other works by Hanley are \"Boy\" (1931) and \"The Furys\" (1935).\n\nThere were a number of Welsh writers who wrote works based on their experiences as coal miners, including novelist (and playwright) Jack Jones (1884–1970), novelists Gwyn Thomas (1913–1981). Lewis Jones (1897–1939), and Gwyn Jones (1907–1999), and poet Idris Davies (1905–53). Jack Jones was a miner's son from Merthyr Tydfil who was himself a miner from the age of 12. He was active in the union movement and politics, starting with the Communist Party, but in the course of his life he was involved, to some degree, with all the major British parties. Amongst his novels of working-class life are \"Rhondda Roundabout\" (1935) and \"Bidden to the Feast\" (1938). The political development of a young miner is the subject of \"Cwmardy\" (1937), Lewis Jones's (1897–1939) largely autobiographical novel. Gwyn Thomas (1913–81) was also a coalminer's son from the Rhondda, but won a scholarship to Oxford and then became a schoolmaster. He wrote 11 novels as well as short stories, plays, and radio and television scripts, most of which focused on unemployment in the Rhondda Valley in the 1930s. Thomas's first accepted book was a collection of short stories, \"Where Did I Put My Pity: Folk-Tales From the Modern Welsh\", which appeared in 1946. Another writer who escaped from his proletarian background was Gwyn Jones (1907–1999). He wrote about this world in novels and short stories, including \"Times Like These\" (1936) which explores the life of a working-class family during the 1926 miners' strike. The mining valleys produced a significant working-class poet in Idris Davies (1905–53), who worked as a coal miner before qualifying as a teacher. He initially wrote in Welsh \"but rebellion against chapel religion\", along with the \"inspirational influence of English\" poets, led him to write in English. \"Gwalia Deserta\" (1938) is about the Great Depression, while the subject of \"The Angry Summer\" (1943) is the 1926 miners' strike. Rhys Davies, author of \"A Time To Laugh\" (1937), and Menna Gallie, author of \"Strike for a Kingdom\" (1959) and \"The Small Mine\" (1962), while not working class, also wrote about life in the mining valleys of South Wales. Harold Heslop, author of the novel \"The Earth Beneath\" (1946) was another coal miner, but from the north-east of England, as was Sid Chaplin, who wrote \"The Thin Seam\" (1949).\n\nBoth Alan Sillitoe, \"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning\" (1958) and Stan Barstow, \"A Kind of Loving\" (1960), were working class writers associated with the so-called Angry young men; they were also linked with Kitchen sink realism, a literary movement that used a style of social realism. This often depicted the domestic situations of working class Britons living in cramped rented accommodation and spending their off-hours drinking in grimy pubs, to explore social issues and political controversies. However, some of the writers also associated with these two movements, like John Osborne and John Braine, did not come from the working-class.\n\nThe following are some other important twentieth-century British working class novelists and novels: Robert Tressell, \"The Ragged-Trousered Philanthropists\" (1914); James C. Welsh, \"The Underworld\" (1920); Ethel Carnie Holdsworth, \"This Slavery\" (1925); Ellen Wilkinson, \"Clash\" (1929); Lewis Grassic Gibbon \"A Scots Quair\" (trilogy, 1932-4); Barry Hines, \"A Kestrel for a Knave\" (1968); William McIlvanney, \"Docherty\" (1975); Pat Barker, \"Union Street\" (1982); James Kelman, \"The Busconductor Hines\" (1984); Irvine Welsh, \"Trainspotting\" (1993).\n\nEdward Bond is an important working-class dramatist and his play \"Saved\" (1965) became one of the best known cause célèbres in 20th century British theatre history. \"Saved\" delves into the lives of a selection of South London working class youths suppressed – as Bond would see it – by a brutal economic system and unable to give their lives meaning, who drift eventually into barbarous mutual violence.\n\nTwo leading French writers who were born into the working class were Jean Giono (1895–1970) and Henry Poulaille (1896–1980).\n\nJean Giono was the son of a cobbler and a laundry woman, who spent most of his life in Manosque, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. He was a voracious reader but had to leave school at sixteen to work in a bank to help support his family. He published his first novel \"Colline\" in 1929, which won him the Prix Brentano and $1000, and an English translation of the book, he left the bank in 1930 to devote himself to writing on a full-time basis.\n\nThe novels Giono published during the nineteen-thirties are set in Provence, with peasants as protagonists, and displaying a pantheistic view of nature. Marcel Pagnol based three of his films on Giono's work of this period: \"Regain\", with Fernandel and music by Honegger, \"Angèle\", and \"La Femme du boulanger\", with Raimu.\n\nAfter World War II he planned on writing a sequence of ten novels inspired by Balzac’s La Comédie humaine, in which he would depict characters from all strata of society rather than peasants, and contrast different moments in history by depicting the experiences of members of the same family a hundred years apart. But Giono only completed the four Hussard novels, \"Mort d’un personnage\" (1948)), \"Le Hussard sur le Toit\" (1951), \"Le Bonheur fou\" (1957), \"Angelo\" (1958).\n\nHenry Poulaille was the son of a carpenter and cane worker, who was orphaned at fourteen. In addition to writing novels Poulaille was active in encouraging working class writing in France from the 1930s. He is the author of numerous novels, essays on the cinema, literature, and popular traditions. Amongst the novels that he wrote are autobiographical works: \"There were four\" (1925); \"Daily Bread\" (1931); \"The Wretched of the Earth\" (1935); \"Soldier of Pain\" (1937); \"The Survivors: Soldier of Pain 2\" (1938); \"Alone in life to 14 years\" (published posthumously in 1980). In these novels, based on his own life, Poulaiile depicts a working-class family, the Magneux.\n\nThe proletarian literature movement in Korea was initially driven by the annexation of Korea by Japan in 1910 and the state of conditions that followed within the country. Proletarian literature acted as a movement that attempted to unify Korea against the shift into imperialism and capitalism that was brought forth by colonial Japan and its government that occupied Korea from the point of annexation until the end of World War II in 1945. The Korean proletarian literature movement became most prominent in the late 1920s and early 1930s, with the formation of multiple social and cultural groups that created, discussed, and revolved around proletarian arts.\n\nWorks of Korean proletarian literature written before 1927 revolved around reconstructing and reforming social issues. One such example would be the short story \"Starvation and Slaughter\" (\"Kia wa Saryuk\", 1925) by author Ch'oe Sŏ-hae, which detailed problems like discrimination between the wealthy and the poor classes. After 1927, Korean proletarian literature started to revolve around ideas that involved intellectuals rather than focus on the struggles between the rich and poor. Examples of these works include \"The Peasant Cho˘ng To-ryong\" by Yi Ki-yo˘ng, \"A Transitional Period\" by Han So˘r-ya, \"Rat Fire\" by So˘hwa, and \"Hometown\" by Kohyang.\n\nCultural movements, especially those of left-wing politics, were fundamental in driving the proletarian genre and movement in Korea. Yŏmgunsa, meaning Torch of the Masses, was a group and movement formed in 1922 that was led by the writer Song Yŏng, and built on a focus towards literature pertaining to social issues and class politics. PASKYULA was a group that reacted to and discussed commonplace literature and art, with more of a focus on the cultural aspects of the materials. These groups were two largely important circles in the movement of unification that represented the mix of proletarian and bourgeois ideals that initially propelled the genre of proletarian literature in Japan-occupied Korea.\n\nLeader of Yŏmgunsa, and a key author in KAPF's circle, Song Yŏng primarily wrote with the intention of forming a solidarity within Korea as well as with Japan through his writing. Two works, \"Our Love\" in 1929, and \"Shift Change\" in 1930 highlight Yŏng's ideology of unification within his writing, as well as the idea of moving away from cultural nostalgia and an idyllic past. In \"Our Love\", the process of industrialization and its resulting urban cities are portrayed as locales of potential opportunity rather than iniquitous environments, depicting a contrasting opinion to other works produced within KAPF. This is first shown through Yong-hee, a primary character within the story who eventually leaves the Korean countryside and travels to Tokyo, in pursuit of escaping her hometown's oppressive patriarchal culture and finding unity, independence, and equality in urban Japan's workforce. Set in Japan, \"Shift Change\" focuses more on the working class movement itself through a group of feuding Korean and Japanese workers. The resolution results in a reconciliation through combined effort, encouraging a combined effort from both the Japanese and Korean proletariat.\n\nDuring the Proletarian Movement, there was an urge from Japanese colonialists to “convert” Koreans away from communism. This conversion system was called \"cho˘nhyang.\" \"Cho˘nhyang\" sparked numerous works from various authors such as \"The Mire\" by Han So˘r-ya, \"New Year’s Day\" by Yi Kiyo˘ng, \"A Prospect\" by Paek Ch’o˘l, \"Barley\" by Kim Nam-ch’o˘n, and \"Management\" by Kim Nam-ch’o˘n, all published between the years 1939 and 1940.\n\nThe proletarian literature movement in Japan emerged from a trend in the latter half of the 1910s of literature about working conditions by authors who had experienced them, later called Taisho workers literature. Representative works from this period include Sukeo Miyajima's \"Miners\" (坑夫) and Karoku Miyachi's \"Tomizō the Vagrant\" (放浪者富蔵), as well as works dealing with military experiences which were also associated with the , the emergence of which allowed for the development of proletarian literature in Japan. In 1921, Ōmi Komaki and Hirofumi Kaneko founded the literary magazine \"The Sowers\" (種蒔く人), which aimed to reform both the current literary scene and society. \"The Sowers\" attracted attention for recording tragedies that occurred in the wake of the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake.\n\nIn 1924, \"Literary Front\" (文芸戦線) magazine was launched by Hatsunosuke Hirabayashi and Suekichi Aono, becoming the main magazine of the Japanese proletarian literature movement. New writing such as Yoshiki Hayama's \"The Prostitute\" (淫売婦) and Denji Kuroshima's \"A Herd of Pigs\" (豚群) also began to appear in the magazine.\n\nIn 1928, the Japanese Proletarian Arts Federation (全日本無産者芸術連盟, Nippona Artista Proleta Federacio, known as NAPF) was founded, bringing together the Japan Proletarian Artists Union (日本プロレタリア芸術連盟), the Labor-Farmers Artists Union (労農芸術家連盟), and the Vanguard Artists Union (前衛芸術家同盟). NAPF was largely the responsibility of two up-and-coming writers called Takiji Kobayashi and Sunao Tokunaga, and the organization's newsletter \"Battleflag\" (戦旗) published many influential works such as Kobayashi's \"The Crab Cannery Ship\" (蟹工船) and \"March 15, 1928\" (一九二八年三月十五日) and Tokunaga's \"A Street Without Sun\" (太陽のない街). Another important magazine was \"Reconstruction\" (改造) which published writings from Ryunosuke Akutagawa and Yuriko Miyamoto, who had just returned from the Soviet Union. Other more renowned publishers like \"Chūo Kōron\" (Central Review), \"Kaizō\" (Reconstruction), and \"Miyako Shinbun\" also published works by proletarian authors, even those who were members of the Communist party.\n\nAuthor Korehito Kurehara traveled secretly to the Soviet Union in 1930 for the Profintern conference, and upon his return in 1931, he started agitating for the democratization of literary organizations. This sparked the drive to organize literary circles in factories and rural areas, creating a new source of readers and writers there.\n\nIn 1931, the NAPF became the Union of Japanese Proletarian Cultural Organizations (日本プロレタリア文化連盟, Federacio de Proletaj Kultur Organizoj Japanaj, also known as KOPF), incorporating other cultural organizations, such as musicians and filmmakers. KOPF produced various magazines including \"Working Woman\" (働く婦人)\n\nThe Japanese government cracked down harshly on proletarian authors, as the Japanese Communist Party had been outlawed since its founding in 1922. Though not all authors were associated with the party, the KOPF was, leading to mass arrests such as the March 15 incident. Some authors, such as Takiji Kobayashi were tortured to death by police, while others were forced to renounce their socialist beliefs.\n\n\"Kanikōsen\" (1929) is a short novel by Takiji Kobayashi (translated into English as \"The Cannery Boat\" (1933), \"The Factory Ship\" (1973) and \"The Crab Cannery Ship\" (2013)), which depicts the lives of Japanese crab fishermen. Told from a left-wing point of view, it is concerned with the hardships that the crew face and how they are exploited by the owners. The book has been made into a film and as manga.\n\nPanait Istrati (1884–1935), was a Romanian working class writer, the son of the laundress and of a Greek smuggler. He studied in primary school for six years in Baldovinești, after being held back twice. He then earned his living as an apprentice to a tavern-keeper, then as a pastry cook and peddler. In the meantime, he was a prolific reader.\n\nIstrati's first attempts at writing date from around 1907 when he started sending pieces to the socialist periodicals in Romania, debuting with the article, \"Hotel Regina\" in \"România Muncitoare\". Here, he later published his first short stories, \"Mântuitorul\" (\"The Redeemer\"), \"Calul lui Bălan\" (\"Bălan's Horse\"), \"Familia noastră\" (\"Our Family\"), \"1 Mai\" (\"May Day\"). He also contributed pieces to other leftist newspapers such as \"Dimineața\", \"Adevărul\", and \"Viața Socială\". In 1910, he was involved in organizing a strike in Brăila. He went to Bucharest, Istanbul, Cairo, Naples, Paris (1913–1914), and Switzerland, where he settled for a while, trying to cure his tuberculosis). Istrati's travels were marked by two successive unhappy marriages, a brief return to Romania in 1915 when he tried to earn his living as a pig farmer, and long periods of vagabondage. In 1923 Istrati's story \"Kyra Kyralina\" (or \"Chira Chiralina\") was published with a preface by the famous French novelist Romaine Rolland. It became the first in his \"Adrien Zograffi\" literary cycle. Rolland was fascinated with Istrati's adventurous life, urging him to write more and publishing parts of his work in \"Clarté\", the journal that Rolland and Henri Barbusse ran. The next major work by Istrati was the novel \"Codine\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34203626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34203626", "title": "Purificacion Quisumbing", "text": "Purificacion Quisumbing\n\nPurificacion Valera Quisumbing (c. 1934 – December 1, 2011) was a Filipino human rights activist who served as the Chairperson of Commission on Human Rights from 2002 to 2008.\n\nIn March 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council re-elected Quisumbing to a second, three-year term on the council's advisory committee.\n\nQuisumbing died on December 1, 2011, at the age of 77. She was survived by her husband, Leonardo Quisumbing, a retired Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, and their 2 daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "17210834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17210834", "title": "Rana Tanveer Hussain", "text": "Rana Tanveer Hussain\n\nRana Tanveer Hussain (; born 1 October 1949) is a Pakistani politician who has been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan since August 2018. Previously he was a member of the National Assembly between 1985 to May 2018.\n\nHe served as Minister for Defence Production and Minister for Science and Technology, in Abbasi cabinet from 2017 to 2018. Previously he served as the Minister for Defence Production and the Minister for Science and Technology in the Third Sharif ministry. A leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (N), Hussain previously briefly held the cabinet portfolio of Minister for Defence Production during the Gillani ministry in 2008.<ref name=\"dawn/13may2008\"></ref>\n\nHe has previously served as Parliamentary Secretary to Ministry of Finance, Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Finance from 1997 to 1999 as well Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister.<ref name=\"profile/modp\"></ref>\n\nHe was born on 1 October 1949 in Sheikhupura, Punjab.\n\nHe received degree of M.A. in Economics and LLB from the Punjab University, Lahore.\n\nHussain started his political career in 1983 when he became district member of the council in Sheikhupura. He was elected as member of the National Assembly of Pakistan for the first time in Pakistani general elections, 1985 as an independent candidate. He later joined Pakistan Muslim League. In Pakistani general elections, 1990, he was re-elected as member of the National Assembly for the second time.\n\nIn Pakistani general elections, 1993, he lost the seat of the National Assembly. In Pakistani general elections, 1997, he was re-elected as the member of the National Assembly for the third time. From 1997 to 1999, he served as Special Assistant to then Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif on Finance.\n\nIn Pakistani general elections, 2008, he was re-elected as the member of the National Assembly for the fourth time from two constituencies NA-131 and NA-132. He vacated NA-131 seat to retain NA-132.\n\nIn Pakistani general elections, 2013, he was re-elected as the member of the National Assembly for the fifth time. In June 2013, he was appointed as the Minister for Defence Production. Later he was given the additional portfolio of Minister for Science and Technology.\n\nHe had ceased to hold ministerial office in July 2017 when the federal cabinet was disbanded following the resignation of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif after Panama Papers case decision. Following the election of Shahid Khaqan Abbasi as Prime Minister of Pakistan in August 2017, he was inducted into the federal cabinet of Abbasi.<ref name=\"app/4aug2017\"></ref><ref name=\"pakistantoday/4aug2017\"></ref> He was appointed as federal minister for Defence Production for third time. In November 2017, he was give the additional cabinet portfolio of Minister for Science and Technology after which Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mir Dostain Khan Domki stepped down in protest. On 3 May 2018, in a cabinet reshuffle, he ceased to hold the office as Federal Minister for Defence Production after Usman Ibrahim succeeded him. Upon the dissolution of the National Assembly on the expiration of its term on 31 May 2018, Hussain ceased to hold the office as Federal Minister for Science and Technology.\n\nHe was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of PML-N from Constituency NA-120 (Sheikhupura-II) in Pakistani general election, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "22477685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22477685", "title": "Recorder (Bible)", "text": "Recorder (Bible)\n\nA recorder ( \"mazkir\" ), as mentioned in the Hebrew Bible, was the office first held by Jehoshaphat in the court of David (2 Samuel 8:16), also in the court of Solomon (1 Kings 4:3). The next recorder mentioned was Joah, in the reign of Hezekiah (2 Kings 18:18,37; Isaiah 36:3,22). In the reign of Josiah another person named Joah filled this office (2 Chronicles 34:8).\n\nThe \"recorder\" was the chancellor or vizier of the kingdom. He brought all weighty matters under the notice of the king, \"such as complaints, petitions, and wishes of subjects or foreigners. He also drew up papers for the king's guidance, and prepared drafts of the royal will for the scribes. All treaties came under his oversight; and he had the care of the national archives or records, to which, as royal historiographer, like the same state officer in Assyria and Egypt, he added the current annals of the kingdom.\" \n"}
{"id": "868284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=868284", "title": "Regionalism (politics)", "text": "Regionalism (politics)\n\nIn politics, regionalism is a political ideology focusing on the \"development of a political or social system based on one or more\" regions and/or the national, normative or economic interests of a specific region, group of regions or another subnational entity, gaining strength from or aiming to strengthen the \"consciousness of and loyalty to a distinct region with a homogeneous population\", similarly to nationalism. More specifically, \"regionalism refers to three distinct elements: movements demanding territorial autonomy within unitary states; the organization of the central state on a regional basis for the delivery of its policies including regional development policies; political decentralization and regional autonomy\".\n\nRegions may be delineated by administrative divisions, culture, language and religion, among others. \n\nRegionalists aim at increasing the political power and influence available to all or some residents of a region. Their demands occur in \"strong\" forms, such as sovereignty, separatism, secession and independence, as well as more moderate campaigns for greater autonomy (such as states' rights, decentralization or devolution). Strictly, regionalists favour confederations over unitary nation states with strong central governments. They may, however, embrace intermediate forms of federalism.\n\nProponents of regionalism usually claim that strengthening the governing bodies and political powers within a region, at the expense of a central government, will benefit local populations by improving regional or local economies, in terms of better fiscal responsibility, regional development, allocation of resources, implementation of local policies and plans, competitiveness among regions and, ultimately, the whole country, consistently with the principle of subsidiarity.\n\nRegionalism, autonomism, secessionism and nationalism are interrelated concepts, yet they often have different and sometimes opposite meanings. For instance, in Spain \"regionalism\" is regarded as strongly associated with \"nationalism\" and, often, \"secessionism\", whereas in Italy, it is generally seen as a synonym of \"federalism\" and the opposite of \"nationalism\". In some cases movements or parties campaigning for independence may push for federalism or autonomy within the pre-existing nation state.\n\nIn developed, western, liberal-democratic countries, secessionist parties include the \"Parti Québécois\" in Quebec (Canada), the Basque Nationalist Party and \"Euskal Herria Bildu\" in the Basque Country (Spain and France), the New Flemish Alliance and Vlaams Belang in Flanders (Belgium), the Catalan European Democratic Party and the Republican Left of Catalonia in \"Països Catalans\" (Spain and France), the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Left Alternative in Galicia (Spain), the Scottish National Party and the Scottish Green Party in Scotland, the \"Plaid Cymru\" in Wales and, to some extent, \"Sinn Féin\" in Northern Ireland (United Kingdom).\n\nIn developing countries they include the Polisario Front in Western Sahara (Morocco), the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad in Azawad (Mali), the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda in the Cabinda Province (Angola), and all national liberation movements.\n\nFederalist/autonomist regional parties include the \"Coalition Avenir Québec\" in Quebec (Canada), the New Progressive Party of Puerto Rico and the Popular Democratic Party in Puerto Rico (a commonwealth of the United States), \"Lega Nord\" in Northern Italy (the party has, at times, advocated Padania's independence and its \"national section\" in Veneto, \"Liga Veneta\", is a proponent of Venetian independence), the Party of the Corsican Nation in Corsica (France), the Martinican Progressive Party in Martinique and the Communist Party of Réunion in Réunion (both French overseas territories), and the New Macau Association in Macau (China).\n\nIn some countries, the development of regionalist politics may be a prelude to further demands for greater autonomy or even full separation, especially when ethnic, cultural and economic disparities are present. This was demonstrated, among other examples, in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s.\n\nPolitical parties that are \"regional\" are not necessarily \"regionalist\" parties. A \"regional party\" is any political party with its base in a single region, whatever its objectives and platform may be. Whereas \"regionalist\" parties are a subset of regional parties that specifically campaign for greater autonomy or independence in their region.\n\nBecause regional parties – including regionalist parties – often cannot receive enough votes or legislative seats to be politically powerful, they may join political coalitions or seek to be part of a coalition government. Notable examples include the Sinn Féin's participation in the Northern Ireland Executive since 1999, the New Flemish Alliance's participation in the Federal Government of Belgium since 2014, and \"Lega Nord\"'s participation in the Italian government in 1994, 2001–2006 and 2008–2011.\n\nExamples of regional parties that do not generally campaign for greater autonomy or federalism include most provincial parties in Canada, most regional and minority parties in Europe, notably including the Christian Social Union in Bavaria (Germany), most parties in Belgium, most parties in Northern Ireland, the Istrian Democratic Assembly in Istria and the Alliance of Primorje-Gorski Kotar in Primorje-Gorski Kotar (both counties of Croatia), and most political parties in India.\n\nRegional parties with an autonomist/federalist or secessionist agenda include the aforementioned \"Bloc Québécois\", \"Lega Nord\", the \"Vlaams Belang\", the New Flemish Alliance, the Catalan European Democratic Party, the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Scottish National Party, the \"Plaid Cymru\", and \"Sinn Féin\".\n\nLists of regional and regionalist parties are available at:\n\n\n\nSmith-Peter, Susan (2018) Imagining Russian Regions: Subnational Identity and Civil Society in Nineteenth-Century Russia. Leiden: Brill. \n\nSmith-Peter, Susan (2018) \"The Six Waves of Russian Regionalism in European Context, 1830-2000,\" in Russia's Regional Identities: The Power of the Provinces, ed. Edith W. Clowes, Gisela Erbsloh and Ani Kokobobo. New York: Routledge, 15-43.\n"}
{"id": "1197653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197653", "title": "Saramaka", "text": "Saramaka\n\nThe Saramaka or Saramacca are one of six Maroon peoples (formerly called \"Bush Negroes\") in the Republic of Suriname and one of the Maroon peoples in French Guiana. (Note that beginning in mid-2010, the people formerly known as “Saramaka” began identifying themselves, in their official documents in English, as \"Saamaka,\" to conform to their own pronunciation.) In 2007, the Saramaka won a ruling by the Inter-American Court for Human Rights supporting their land rights in Suriname for lands they have historically occupied, over national government claims. It was a landmark decision for indigenous peoples in the world. They have received compensation for damages and control this fund for their own development goals. \n\nThe word \"Maroon\" comes from the Spanish \"cimarrón\", which was derived from an Arawakan root. Since 1990 especially, some of the Saramaka have migrated to French Guiana due to extended civil war in Suriname. By the early 16th century, the term \"maroon\" (\"cimarron\") was used throughout the Americas to designate slaves who had escaped from slavery and set up independent communities beyond colonists' control. Together with five other Maroon tribes in Suriname and French Guiana, the Saramaka form the largest group in the world of Maroon peoples of African descent. \n\nSuriname, formerly called Dutch Guiana, has been independent from the Netherlands since 1975. The 90,000 Saramaka (some of whom live in neighboring French Guiana) are one minority within this multi-ethnic nation, which includes approximately 27 per cent Hindustanis (East Indian descendants of contract laborers brought in after the abolition of slavery); 14.5 per cent Creoles (descendants of Africans brought as slaves); 14 per cent Javanese (descendants of contract workers brought during the early 20th century from Indonesia); 23.5 per cent Maroons (descendants of Africans brought as slaves); 3 per cent Chinese, Levantines, and Europeans; and 3.7 per cent Amerindians. \n\nThe Saramaka, together with the other Maroons in Suriname and French Guiana: the Ndyuka (90,000), and the Matawai, Paramaka, Aluku, and Kwinti (who together number some 25,000), constitute by far the world's largest surviving population of Maroons of African descent.\n\nSince their escape from slavery in the 17th and 18th centuries, the Saramaka have lived chiefly along the upper Suriname River and its tributaries, the Gaánlío and the Pikílío. Since the 1960s, they also live along the lower Suriname River in villages constructed by the colonial government and Alcoa, a major aluminum company. They were relocated to allow flooding of approximately half their tribal territory for a hydroelectric project built to supply electricity for an aluminum smelter. Today, about one-third of the Saramaka live in French Guiana, most having migrated there since 1990 after warfare in Suriname.\n\nThe Saramaka and the Matawai (in central Suriname) speak variants of a creole language called Saramaccan. The Ndyuka, Paramaka, and Aluku, (in eastern Suriname), as well as the several hundred Kwinti, speak variants of another creole language, Ndyuka. Both languages are historically related to Sranan Tongo, the creole language of coastal Suriname. About 50 percent of the Saramaccan lexicon derives from various West and Central African languages, 20 percent from English (the language of the original colonists in Suriname), 20 percent from Portuguese (the language of the overseers and slave masters on many Suriname plantations), and the remaining 10 percent from Amerindian languages and Dutch (the latter were later colonists). Although lexically different, the grammar resembles that of the other Atlantic creoles and derives from West African models.\n\nThe ancestors of the Saramaka were among those Africans sold as plantation slaves to Europeans in Suriname in the late 17th and early 18th centuries. Coming from a variety of West and Central African peoples speaking many different languages, they escaped into the dense rainforest – individually, in small groups, and sometimes in great collective rebellions. For nearly 100 years, they fought from the rainforest for their independence. They were so feared that late 18th century maps showed the defensive fortifications in the European colony intended to protect against their raids. \n\nIn 1762, a full century before the general emancipation of slaves in Suriname, the Maroons won their freedom and signed a treaty with the Dutch Crown to acknowledge their territorial rights and trading privileges. The Saramaka have a keen interest in the history of their formative years; they preserve their very rich oral tradition. Innovative scholarly research since the late 20th century has brought together oral and archival accounts in new histories. Like the other Suriname Maroons, the Saramaka lived almost as a state-within-a-state until the mid-20th century, when the pace of outside encroachments increased. \n\nDuring the late 1980s, a civil war between Maroons and the military government of Suriname caused considerable hardship to the Saramaka and other Maroons. By mid-1989 approximately 3,000 Saramaka and 8,000 Ndyuka were living as temporary refugees in French Guiana. Access to the outside world was severely restricted for many Saramaka in their homeland. The end of the war in the mid-1990s initiated a period in which the national government largely neglected the needs of Saramaka and other Maroons while granting large timber and mining concessions to foreign multinationals (Chinese, Indonesian, Malaysian, and others) in traditional Saramaka territory. They did not consult the Saramaka authorities.\n\nIn addition, during this period there were numerous social changes, both on the coast of Suriname and in Saramaka territory. United States Peace Corps volunteers lived and worked in Saramaka villages, and Brazilian gold-miners arrived on the Suriname river. Such economic activities as prostitution, casino gambling, and drug smuggling became major industries in coastal Suriname and accompanied the miners to the interior.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the Association of Saramaka Authorities filed a complaint before the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights to protect their land rights. In November 2007, the Inter-American Court for Human Rights ruled in favor of the Saramaka people against the government of Suriname. In this landmark decision, which establishes a precedent for all Maroon and indigenous peoples in the Americas, the Saramaka were granted collective rights to the lands on which their ancestors had lived since the early 18th century, including rights to decide about the exploitation of natural resources such as timber and gold within that territory. In addition, they were granted compensation from the government for damages caused by previous timber grants made to Chinese companies. This was paid into a special development fund, which is now managed by the Saramaka.\n\nTraditional villages, which average 100 to 200 residents, consist of a core of matrilineal kin plus some wives and children of lineage men. Always located near a river, for water, transportation and fishing, they are constructed of an irregular arrangement of small houses, open-sided structures, domesticated trees, occasional chicken houses, various shrines, and scattered patches of bush. (In contrast, the so-called transmigration villages, built to house the 6,000 Saramaka displaced by the hydroelectric project, range up to 2,000 people. They are laid out in a European-style grid pattern, used throughout larger South American cities. In many cases they have been located far from the riverside, making life difficult for the occupants.) Horticultural camps, which include permanent houses and shrines, are located several hours by canoe from each village. They are exploited by small groups of women related through matrilineal ties. \n\nDue to their matrilineal ties, many women have a house in their own birth village, another in their horticultural camp, and a third in their husband's village. Men divide their time among several different houses, built at various times for themselves and for their wives. Traditional Saramaka houses are compact, wide enough to tie a hammock and not much longer from front to back; with walls of planks and woven palm fronds, and traditionally roofs of thatch or, increasingly, of corrugated metal. They do not have windows but often have elaborately carved facades. Since the Suriname civil war, the Saramaka have built an increasing number of houses in coastal, Western style. They use concrete as well as wood, and feature windows and more expansive floor plans.\n\nFor more than two centuries, the economy has been based on full exploitation of the forest environment and on periodic work trips by men to the coast to bring back Western goods. For subsistence, the Saramaka depend on shifting (swidden) horticulture done mostly by women, with hunting and fishing done by men, supplemented by the women gathering wild forest products, such as palm nuts. They imported a few key items, such as salt. Rice is the most cultivated crop, in dry (hillside) technique. Other crops include cassava, taro, okra, maize, plantains, bananas, sugarcane, and peanuts. Domesticated trees, such as coconut, orange, breadfruit, papaya, and calabash are mainly cultivated in the villages. There are no markets.\n\nUntil the late 20th century, the Saramaka produced most of their material culture, much of it embellished with decorative detail. Women sewed patchwork and embroidered clothing, and carved calabash bowls. Some men also produced baskets, and some women made pottery. Men built the houses and canoes. In addition, they carved a wide range of wooden objects for domestic use, such as stools, paddles, winnowing trays, cooking utensils, and combs. Today, an increasing number of items, including clothing, are imported from the coast. \n\nBody cicatrization, practiced by virtually all Saramaka women as late as the 1970s and 1980s, had become relatively uncommon by the start of the 21st century. Numerous genres of singing, dance, drumming, and tale telling continue to be a vibrant part of Saramaka culture.\n\nOnce the men have cleared and burned the fields, horticulture is mainly women's work. Women cultivate and process a variety of crops, choosing which to develop to continue preferred qualities. They process the food for meals and storage of foods such as peanuts. They use parts of plants to make some needed goods.\n\nThe men conduct hunting of game with shotguns; they also do most of the fishing as well. Men have long devoted a large portion of their adult years to earning money in work in coastal Suriname or French Guiana. This allows them to buy the Western goods considered essential to life in their home villages, such as shotguns and powder, tools, pots, cloth, hammocks, soap, kerosene, and rum. During the second half of the 20th century, small stores were established in many villages, making more goods available. Outboard motors, transistor radios, and tape recorders became common consumer items. Today, cell phones are ubiquitous; both men and women have greatly increased communication with Paramaribo. New economic opportunities in the gold industry – mining for men, prostitution for women – are being exploited.\n\nSaramaka society is firmly based on a matrilineal kinship system. A clan (\"lo\") – often several thousand individuals – consists of the matrilineal descendants of an original band of escaped slaves. Children are considered born into this clan. It is subdivided into lineages (\"bee\") – usually 50 to 150 people – descended from a more recent ancestress. Several lineages from a single clan constitute the core of every village.\n\nThe matrilineal clans (\"lo\") own land, based on claims staked out in the early 18th century as the original Maroons fled southward to freedom. Hunting and gathering rights belong to clan members collectively. Within the clan, temporary rights to land use for farming are negotiated by village headmen. The establishment of transmigration villages in the 1960s led to land shortages in certain regions. The success of the Saramakas in their lawsuit against the government of Suriname will now permit them to manage their lands with less outside interference.\n\nComplex marriage prohibitions (including \"bee\" exogamy) and preferences are negotiated through divination. Demographic imbalance, owing to labor migration, permits widespread polygyny. Although co-wives hold equal status, relations between them are expected to be adversarial. The Saramaka treat marriage as an ongoing courtship, with frequent exchanges of gifts such as men's woodcarving and women's decorative sewing. Although many women live primarily in their husband's village, men never spend more than a few days at a time in the matrilineal (home) village of a wife.\n\nEach house belongs to an individual man or woman, but most social interaction occurs outdoors. The men in each cluster of several houses, whether \"bee\" members or temporary visitors, eat meals together. The women of these same clusters, whether \"bee\" members or resident wives of \"bee\" men, spend a great deal of time in each other's company, often farming together as well.\n\nMatrilineal principles, mediated by divination, determine the inheritance of material and spiritual possessions as well as political offices. Before death, however, men often pass on specialized ritual knowledge (and occasionally a shotgun) to a son.\n\nEach child, after spending its first several years with its mother, is raised by an individual man or woman (not a couple) designated by the \"bee\", girls typically are raised by women, and boys by men. Although children spend most of their time with matrilineal kin, father-child relations are warm and strong. Gender identity is established early, with children taking on responsibility for gender-typed adult tasks as soon as they are physically able. Girls often marry by age 15, whereas boys are more often in their twenties when they take their first wife. \n\nA woman is required to go into seclusion during her menstrual cycle. The cycle is considered a time of transgression and destructive of village order. Women are not allowed to perform many of the village's functions and face other restrictions during their menstrual cycle. The Saramaka expression \"to be in menstrual seclusion\" is the same as \"to be in mourning.\"\n\nThe Saramaka people, like the other Maroon groups, are politically and formally run by men. The 2007 ruling of the Inter-American Court for Human Rights helps define the spheres of influence in which the national government and Saramaka authorities hold sway.\n\nSaramaka society is egalitarian, with kinship forming the backbone of social organization. No social or occupational classes are distinguished. Elders are accorded special respect and ancestors are consulted, through divination, on a daily basis.\n\nProtestant missionary schools have existed in some villages since the 18th century. State elementary schools came to most villages only in the 1960s. Schools ceased to function completely during the Suriname civil war of the late 1980s and have been rebuilt only partially since.\n\nSince the 18th-century treaty, the Saramaka have had a government-approved paramount chief (\"gaamá\"), as well as a series of headmen (\"kabiteni\") and assistant headmen (\"basiá\"). Traditionally, the role of these officials in political and social control was exercised in a context replete with oracles, spirit possession, and other forms of divination. As the national government is intervening more frequently in Saramaka affairs (and paying political officials nominal salaries), the sacred base of these officials’ power is gradually being eroded. These political offices are historically controlled and the property of clans (\"lo\"). Political activity is strongly dominated by men.\n\nCouncil meetings (\"kuútu\") and divination sessions provide complementary arenas for the resolution of social problems. Palavers may involve the men of a lineage, a village, or all Saramaka. They treat problems ranging from conflicts concerning marriage or fosterage to land disputes, political succession, or major crimes. These same problems, in addition to illness and other kinds of misfortune, are routinely interpreted through various kinds of divination as well. In all cases, consensus is found through negotiation, often with a strong role being played by gods and ancestors. In a type of reconciliation justice, guilty parties are usually required to pay for their misdeeds with material offerings to the lineage of the offended person. In the 18th century people found guilty of witchcraft were sometimes burned at the stake. Today, men caught in flagrante delicto with the wife of another man are either beaten by the woman's kinsmen or made to pay them a fine.\n\nAside from adultery disputes, which sometimes mobilize a full canoe-load of men seeking revenge in a public fistfight, intra-Saramaka conflict rarely surpasses the level of personal relations. The civil war that began in 1986, pitting Maroons against the national army of Suriname, brought major changes to the villages of the interior. Members of the \"Jungle Commando\" rebel army, almost all Ndyuka and Saramaka, learned to use automatic weapons. They became accustomed to a state of war and plunder. Their reintegration into Saramaka (and Ndyuka) society has been difficult, though their migration to the coast and French Guiana has provided a safety valve, if not for the receiving areas.\n\nEvery aspect of Saramaka life is based in various religious beliefs. Such decisions as where to clear a garden or build a house, whether to undertake a trip, or how to deal with theft or adultery are made in consultation with village deities, ancestors, forest spirits, and snake gods. The means of communication with these powers vary from spirit possession and the consultation of oracle-bundles, to the interpretation of dreams. Gods and spirits, which are a constant presence in daily life, are also honored through frequent prayers, libations, feasts, and dances. \n\nThe rituals surrounding birth, death, and other life passages are extensive, as are those relating to more mundane activities, from hunting a tapir to planting a rice field. Today about 25 per cent of Saramaka are nominal Christians – mainly Moravian (some since the mid-18th century), but others Roman Catholic. Increasingly some are converted to Evangelicalism of one or another kind.\n\nThe Saramaka world is populated by a wide range of supernatural beings, from localized forest spirits and gods that reside in the bodies of snakes, vultures, jaguars, and other animals, to ancestors, river gods, and warrior spirits. Within these categories, each supernatural being is named, individualized, and given specific relationships to living people. Intimately involved in the ongoing events of daily life, these beings communicate to humans mainly through divination and spirit possession. \"Kúnus\" are the avenging spirits of people or gods who were wronged during their lifetime and who pledge themselves to eternally tormenting the matrilineal descendants and close matrilineal kinsmen of their offender. Much of Saramaka ritual life is devoted to their appeasement. The Saramaka believe that all evil originates in human action; not only does each misfortune, illness, or death stem from a specific past misdeed, but every offense, whether against people or gods, has eventual consequences. The ignoble acts of the dead intrude daily on the lives of the living; any illness or misfortune calls for divination, which quickly reveals the specific past act that caused it. Through the performance of rites, the ancestors speak, the gods dance, and the world is again made right.\n\nIndividual specialists who supervise rites oversee the major village- and clan-owned shrines that serve large numbers of clients, as well as the various categories of possession gods, and various kinds of minor divination. These specialists generally pass on their knowledge to selected individuals before death. A large proportion of Saramaka have some kind of specialized ritual expertise, which they occasionally exercise. They are paid in cloth, rum, or, increasingly, cash.\n\nSaramaka ceremonial life is not determined by the calendar, but rather regulated by the occurrence of particular misfortunes, interpreted through divination. The most important ceremonies include those surrounding funerals and the appeasement of ancestors, public curing rites, rituals in honor of \"kúnus\" (in particular snake gods and forest spirits), and the installation of political officials.\n\nEvery case of illness is believed to have a specific cause that can be determined only through divination. The causes revealed vary from a lineage \"kúnu\" to sorcery, from a broken taboo to an ancestor's displeasure. Once the cause is known, rites are carried out to appease the offended god or ancestor (or otherwise right the social imbalance). Since the 1960s, Western mission clinics and hospitals have been used by most Saramaka as a supplement to their own healing practices. During the Suriname Civil War of the 1980s and 1990s, most of these facilities were destroyed. They have only been very partially restored since.\n\nThe dead play an active role in the lives of the living. Ancestor shrines – several to a village – are the site of frequent prayers and libations, as the dead are consulted about ongoing village problems. A death occasions a series of complex rituals that lasts about a year, culminating in the final passage of the deceased to the status of ancestor. The initial rites, which are carried out over a period of one week to three months, depending on the importance of the deceased, end with the burial of the corpse in an elaborately constructed coffin filled with personal belongings. These rites include divination with the coffin (to consult the spirit of the deceased) by carrying it on the heads of two men, feasts for the ancestors, all-night drum/song/dance performances, and the telling of folktales. Some months later, a \"second funeral\" is conducted to mark the end of the mourning period and to chase the ghost of the deceased from the village forever. These rites involve the largest public gatherings in Saramaka and also include all-night drum/song/dance performances. At their conclusion, the deceased has passed out of the realm of the living into that of the ancestors.\n\nThe Saramaka people beyond Gaan Lio lived in relative isolation and as an uncontacted people group from the time of their ancestor's escape from slavery in the eighteenth century. In the latter part of 1993, a local, independent missionary by the name of Steve Groseclose and a small group of Saramaka men from other less remote villages ventured beyond the main barrier point called Tapa Wata Sula, translated as Shut Off Rapids. This initial excursion led to subsequent trips and began the gradual influx of increasing outside influence throughout the following years. A local Saramaka man named Pompeia had left one of the uncontacted villages to visit the capital city of Paramaribo earlier that year. His knowledge of the villages beyond Tapa Wata Sula made him an invaluable guide on the first trips into the area.\n\nEthnography among the Saramaka was first conducted by Americans Melville and Frances Herskovits (during two summers in 1928 and 1929). Americans Richard and Sally Price have also studied the people (intermittently between 1966 and the present: in Suriname until 1986, and in French Guiana thereafter). This late-20th century fieldwork complements the modern fieldwork carried out among other groups of Suriname Maroons, such as the Ndyuka ethnography of Dutch scholars Bonno and Ineke Thoden van Velzen.\n\nEdward C. Green, an American medical anthropologist, conducted fieldwork among the Matawais between 1970–73, with intermittent visits since. His doctoral dissertation focused on changes underway then in the matrilineal kinship and indigenous spiritual belief systems. He has become known for his work on processes related to AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases, especially in African nations, and making use of indigenous healers.\n\n"}
{"id": "15558919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15558919", "title": "Tara Singh Varma", "text": "Tara Singh Varma\n\nTarapatie \"Tara\" Oedayraj Singh Varma (born in Springlands (British Guiana), August 29, 1948) is a former Dutch politician and former member of the House of Representatives for the GreenLeft party who gained notoriety after falsely claiming to suffer from an incurable cancer.\n\nAlthough she was born in British Guiana, she attended vocational education in Surinam, which was a colony of the Netherlands at the time, studying teaching and law, without graduating. She then moved to Amsterdam, in the continental part of the Netherlands. In Amsterdam she became active for the Communist Party of the Netherlands. Between 1982 and 1994 she was member of the Amsterdam municipal council for the CPN, between 1986 and 1990 for the Left Accord, a common list of the Pacifist Socialist Party and the Political Party of Radicals, and between 1990 and 1994 for GreenLeft, which was formed by a merger of CPN, PSP, PPR, and the small Evangelical People's Party.\n\nSingh Varma was very active in civil society. She was a member various boards of associations and foundations for migrants, women and other social groups. She founded and led an Amsterdam information point. She had a column in the women's weekly \"Furore\", and was a member of the radio panel of the VARA radio show Punch. She also was treasurer of the Grenada Committee.\n\nAfter the 1994 election, Singh Varma became a member of the House of Representatives. She succeeded Ina Brouwer, who had stepped down after the poor election results. She was the first female member of the House of Representatives who was not born in the Netherlands. When she entered parliament questions were raised about her integrity. There were questions surrounding fundraising efforts for the Grenada Foundation in which Singh Varma was involved. A committee led by former minister Dieuwke de Graaff-Nauta came to the conclusion that Singh Varma had not embezzled money, but that her actions as treasurer had been neglectful. In parliament Singh Varma spoke on home affairs, health, and welfare. She paid particular attention to the position of migrant women. While in parliament she took many positions outside of parliament in boards of foundations and associations for migrants, women and other social groups. She chaired the Surinam Women's Council and was member of the board of the Volunteer Centre in Amsterdam, the migrant women centre Zami, and the prostitutes' trade union the Red Thread. In 1996 she claimed to be intimidated and attacked by far right groups. No proof of this was ever found.\n\nIn 1997 she was put on the ninth place on the GreenLeft list for the 1998 election. The committee for candidacy stated that she \"did not excel in parliamentary work,\" but because of the unexpectedly good election result for the GreenLeft she was re-elected. She also got a large number of preference votes. In 1998 she was a member of the parliamentary inquiry committee on the airplane crash in the Bijlmermeer. This position got her national fame.\n\nIn 2000 Singh Varma claimed that she was less able to perform her work as Member of Parliament. Twice she appeared in the House of Representatives in a wheelchair. She claimed to suffer from an incurable form of cancer and announced that she would leave the House of Representatives to prepare for the end of her life.\n\nIn June 2001 the TROS television show \"Opgelicht?!\" (in English \"Framed?!\") discovered that Singh Varma did not suffer from cancer. Moreover, according to this program, Singh Varma had not fulfilled financial promises to the Indian development organization Ninash Foundation, which had put the organization into financial problems.\n\nFirst Singh Varma denied both claims and sued the journalists. In August 2001 she claimed that she had not suffered from cancer and instead suffered from post traumatic stress disorder after self-fabricated far right threats and her commitment to the victims of the plane crash in the Bijlmermeer. In 2002 she publicly apologized for her actions. She denied lying on purpose about her diseases and stated that she suffered from delusions and medical condition called pseudologia fantastica. Paul Rosenmöller, political leader of the GreenLeft at the time writes that he felt \"cheated and angry\" because of her revelations.\n\nAfter leaving parliament Singh Varma became editor of the People's Newspaper Suriname around 2005. Later she worked in a Surinam deli.\n\n"}
{"id": "55076653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55076653", "title": "The 50% Rule", "text": "The 50% Rule\n\nThe 50% Rule in English Faith School admissions was introduced in 2010 and stipulates that where newly established Academies with a religious character are oversubscribed, at least 50% of their places must be open places, i.e. allocated without reference to faith. The rule is sometimes referred to as the Faith Cap on admissions. However, as the open places are just as accessible to faith applicants as non-faith applicants, in practice the rule does not explicitly prevent such schools from having more than 50% of students with a faith affiliation.\n\nThe 50% Rule applies only to \"new\" academies, established under the Free School programme, not to maintained schools that have converted to academy status.\n\nDavid Laws, Schools Minister at the time the 50% Rule was introduced, described the motivation behind it in a Parliamentary debate. He said: \"Where the Government fund new Church or faith school provision, it is right that such new schools cater for local demand in the faith, but the needs of children in the broader local community must not be overlooked. We want all local children to have the same opportunity to access high-quality state-funded education. The fact that it is state funded is the point.\"\n\nHe went on to talk about the principle of parental choice, saying there are \"two competing rights in a state-funded school system: people’s right to choose to have their children educated in the way that they wish, and the right of [other] taxpayers who live near state-funded schools to have some ability to access them despite the over-representation of people from the faith that the system allows.\"\n\nThe 50% Rule was introduced by the 2010 Coalition Government formed from the Conservative Party and the Liberal Democrats. In the run up to the 2010 General Election, the Liberal Democrat manifesto had stated that \"We will ensure that all faith schools develop an inclusive admissions policy.\" This aim was reflected in the Coalition Agreement as follows: \"We will ensure that all new Academies follow an inclusive admissions policy. We will work with faith groups to enable more faith schools and facilitate inclusive admissions policies in as many of these schools as possible.\"\n\nThe 50% Rule was first applied following the Academies Act 2010, via a condition to the Funding Agreements for all new faith academies established under the Free School programme. It was later documented within the 2014 Schools Admissions Code. The Education Secretary, Michael Gove, suggested that the rule should also be \"voluntarily\" applied to other types of new faith school.\n\nThe Catholic Education Service lobbied for removal of the 50% Rule, saying that they would not open any Free schools while it was in place. In April 2014, the issue was aired in the House of Commons in a debate led by Damian Hinds MP.\n\nThe Coalition Government was replaced by a Conservative Government in the 2015 General Election. The Schools Minister with responsibility for Free Schools, Lord Nash, told campaigners that there were no plans to review the 50% Rule. However, the following year, Nick Timothy, the newly appointed director of the New Schools Network, responsible for encouraging and supporting the establishment of Free Schools, spoke out in favour of ending it.\n\nWhen Theresa May became Prime Minister in 2016, Nick Timothy became her Joint Chief of Staff, and was credited as responsible when later the same year a national consultation by the Department for Education asked for people's views on removing the 50% Rule, to enable new faith academies to select up to 100% of pupils based on their faith. The move was opposed by individuals and groups campaigning for inclusive admissions, including the Accord Coalition, Humanists UK and the National Secular Society as well as other commentators. The results of the consultation were seen as a foregone conclusion by the Catholic Education Service, which wrote in its 2016 annual report: \"After a CES coordinated campaign which put pressure on Government officials, parliamentarians and Downing Street special advisers, the Prime Minister announced the removal of the 50% cap on faith-based admission for new Free Schools. This announcement means that Catholic dioceses will be able to open new Catholic schools for the first time in six years.\"\n\nHowever, in April 2017, before the results of the consultation were published, Theresa May called a snap General Election, with Nick Timothy as a senior advisor for her campaign. Their Conservative manifesto included a pledge to \"replace the unfair and ineffective inclusivity rules that prevent the establishment of new Roman Catholic schools.\"\n\nWhen the election resulted in a hung parliament, Nick Timothy resigned, and the future of many of the manifesto policies was thrown into doubt. This resulted in speculation as to whether the 50% Rule would be repealed or not, and associated lobbying and campaigning on both sides of the debate. Nevertheless, eight months after the consultation report was expected to be published, the Government said it was \"still considering how best to progress the policy proposals ... in light of the responses to the consultation.\" \n\nIn January 2018, a Cabinet reshuffle resulted in the incumbent Education Secretary, Justine Greening, being replaced by Damian Hinds, whose record of supporting the Catholic Education Service's position on the 50% Rule fuelled speculation that he planned to implement the Government's manifesto pledge to remove it. The following month, he confirmed that was his intention. However, in May 2018 it was announced that the 50% cap would remain in place. Instead the Government said it would provide financial support for local authorities that want to work with faith groups to create new voluntary aided schools.\n\nThe Catholic Education Service refused to support the establishment of new faith academies under the 50% Rule because they interpreted it as forcing schools \"to turn pupils away because they were Catholics while admitting others because they were not\". They said that this would be against Canon Law, although campaigners for inclusive admissions argued that their claim was \"disingenuous and politically motivated\". The chairperson of the CES has said: “The Church of England runs schools for the wider community ... Ours are different. They are for the Catholic community.”\n\nOne Catholic Free School \"was\" established, St Michael's in Camborne, as a conversion from the private sector. It originally received \"one off\" approval from church officials, but this was later withdrawn and, after it failed to thrive, the school was eventually absorbed into a community academy.\nWhile it was operating as a Catholic free school it was found to misinterpret the 50% Rule, because its oversubscription criteria prioritised 50% of places for \"non-Catholics\" rather than allocating them \"without reference to faith\". This was judged to be a breach of the Admissions Code, a judgement which confirmed that places allocated \"without reference to faith\" should be just as accessible to Catholics (or other faith groups) as to those without a faith affiliation.\n\nAnother Free School, Trinity Academy in Brixton, opened without a formal Catholic designation (for which it would have needed the support of the church authorities), but with a Catholic ethos, and oversubscription criteria that allocated 100% of places without reference to faith. The school's founder has spoken out against the Catholic Education Service's position on the 50% rule, describing it as \"stubborn\" and a missed opportunity for evangelism.\n\nWhen St Richard Reynolds Catholic High School and Primary School were established in the London Borough of Richmond Upon Thames in 2013, campaign groups accused the local authority of helping the Catholic church to avoid the 50% Rule, by providing financial and political support for them to be set up as Voluntary Aided schools rather than Free Schools, and setting a legal precedent for interpretation of 2011 Education Act. The Education Secretary suggested that the school should \"voluntarily\" adhere to the 50% rule. In the end, the diocesan authorities did provide 10 open places in the primary school, however, like St. Michaels in Camborne, they were also required by the Schools' Adjudicator to modify the wording of their policy to ensure that Catholic children could access the open places.\n\nThe Church of England (CE) is establishing large numbers of new schools under the Free School programme. The Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has said that the Church of England is moving away from selecting pupils based on religion. Responding to the proposal to remove the 50% Rule, their Chief Education Officer stated that “Our schools are not faith schools for the faithful, they are church schools for the community.” However, campaign groups have said that the admissions authorities for CE schools frequently do not follow this advice.\n\nSome Church of England free schools go beyond what is required by the 50% Rule and have oversubscription criteria which allocate 100% of places without reference to faith, in line with many of their established Voluntary Controlled schools.\n\nOne school's interpretation of the 50% Rule was judged to be unreasonable, because it designated Church of England primary schools, which themselves had faith-based admissions criteria, as feeder schools for the 50% of places that were being allocated without reference to faith.\n\nFollowing the Government's consultation on removal of the 50% Rule, one proposed CE Free School apparently published plans for oversubscription criteria that selected only 25% of places without reference to faith, prompting criticism that people were \"jumping the gun\" in assuming the change would go ahead. However, the school later said the policy description on their website had been incorrect.\n\nThe Free School programme has resulted in the establishment of many new schools with several faith designations, including other Christian denominations, Jewish, Hindu, Sikh and Muslim, all of which are subject to the 50% Rule.\n\nSome senior members of the Jewish community have publicly supported the removal of the 50% Rule.\n\nThe Government's 2016 consultation document \"Schools that Work for Everyone\", which was proposing removal of the 50% Rule, said that \"in open free schools designated for minority faiths in the English school system (Islam, Judaism, Sikhism and Hinduism) the intake has been predominantly of pupils from similar ethnic backgrounds\". They contrasted this with Voluntary Aided Catholic schools which they said have higher levels of diversity on average, despite not being subject to the 50% Rule.\n\nThe same document said \"“Other Christian” free schools have nearly a fifth of pupils of Asian origin and nearly a tenth from black ethnic families, with just 55% of White ethnic origin\".\n\nIn response to the consultation, a campaign group in favour of retaining the 50% Rule published analysis indicating that schools subject to the rule are more ethnically diverse than those that aren't, concluding that \"if the 50% cap was rolled out across all state-funded secondary schools then .. whilst there would be little difference for the minority faith schools, tens or even hundreds of thousands of non-white pupils would gain access to Christian schools when they haven’t had access before.\"\n"}
{"id": "40268884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40268884", "title": "Unfair election", "text": "Unfair election\n\nAn unfair election is a concept used by national and international election monitoring groups to identify when the vote of the people for a government is not free and fair. Unfairness in elections encompasses all varieties of electoral fraud, voter suppression or intimidation, unbalanced campaign finance rules, and imbalanced access to the media. Unfair elections violate the right to vote, which is generally recognised as an essential element to a Deliberative democracy and representative democracy.\n\nAlthough some form of elections have been held since antiquity, in every society until 1893, large number of people were excluded based on their status, particularly slaves, poor, women, people with different skin colour, and people without formal education. The first democratic election in the modern sense was the 1893 general election when women won the vote at the age of 21 like men, property qualifications were scrapped, and restrictions on Maori people voting were discarded. In the United Kingdom, some form of representation in government had been guaranteed since the Magna Carta 1215, but only for a tiny elite, and potentially vetoed by the Monarch. The Monarch's power was eliminated following the Glorious Revolution 1688, and then elections became progressively more democratic. As property qualifications were slowly phased out from 1832 to in 1918, women's suffrage became non-discriminatory in 1928, and the last vestiges of double voting were abolished in 1948. In the United States, elections for the Federal government were administered in each of the states. Around half of all successful constitutional amendments since the Revolution of 1776 concerned elections and the franchise. Slavery was abolished in 1865, universal suffrage for men in the United States House of Representatives was achieved over 1868 and 1870, direct elections to the Senate secured in 1913, women won the vote in 1920, and poll taxes levied by the states were banned in 1964. Around continental Europe, there were different speeds of progress. France had granted universal suffrage for men after the Revolutions of 1848, but did not extend the vote to women until 1944. After the First World War in Germany, the new Weimar Republic's constitution of 1919 guaranteed universal suffrage, overhauling the German Empire's system of three voting classes that depended on wealth, and its exclusion of women. However, democracy was abolished again in 1933 by the Nazi regime until the victory of the Allies in World War II.\nIn 1948, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights exhorted that \"everyone has the right to take part in the government\", that \"the will of the people is the basis of the authority of government\" and that \"this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections.\" In the post war process of decolonialisation, more and more countries became independent from the crumbling European Empires, and many introduced elections of some form, though many countries' transition slid abruptly back into authoritarian regimes. The Soviet Union and countries behind the Iron Curtain had no free elections, until the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. After that a majority of countries around the world have moved toward democratic electoral systems, at least on paper.\n\nAside from simply denying the vote by outright discrimination, or by curtailing the power of the democratically elected body, interest groups or governments seeking to usurp or hold onto power employed a variety of methods. An early case of electoral fraud was in an election to the county of Northamptonshire in England in 1768, when three earls spent more than £100,000 each to buy votes from voters to win their seats. Voter intimidation was widespread in the German federal election, March 1933, immediately before the Nazi party abolished Parliament's powers. Hitler had become Chancellor at the start of 1933 in a coalition agreement, and with control over the police, opposition party members and campaigners were beaten up and imprisoned throughout the voting process. As electoral systems became more mature, the focus of unfairness turned toward campaign finance and media bias. Almost every country in the developed world introduced limits on the amount that could be spent by any particular candidate in an election. The large exception was the United States, because a majority of judges on the US Supreme Court who were appointed by the Republican Party continued to strike down campaign finance limits as unconstitutional from 1976. A majority of countries also have some form of media regulation, so that news coverage has to be impartial and accurate in its treatment of political issues. Regulation may also extend to who owns news and television organisations, so that the power to grant access information channels is not unduly limited.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3784533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3784533", "title": "Union Colliery Co of British Columbia v Bryden", "text": "Union Colliery Co of British Columbia v Bryden\n\nUnion Colliery Co of British Columbia v Bryden is a famous Canadian constitutional decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council where the exclusivity principle in Canadian federalism and pith and substance analysis was first articulated.\n\nBryden was a shareholder in Union Colliery, a coal mining company in British Columbia, and was troubled by the company's practice of employing \"Chinamen\" and putting them into positions of authority. He sought an injunction against the company for violating section 4 of the provincial Coal Mines Regulation Act of 1890, which prohibited hiring \"Chinamen\" to work in coal mines. Union Colliery challenged the constitutionality of Act, arguing that the prohibition related to matters of naturalization and was under the jurisdiction of the federal government under section 91(25) of the British North America Act, 1867. Bryden, however, argued that since the federal government had no laws covering the matter the province was allowed to step in and legislate on it. \n\nThe issue before the Council was whether the provinces could legislate in matters under federal jurisdiction where the federal government has remained silent.\n\nThe Council held that the pith and substance of the provision was in relation to \"aliens and naturalized subjects\" and did fall within the federal jurisdiction. They also held that the federal government did not need to pass laws in all areas within their jurisdiction, and under the exclusivity principle the province can never intrude upon the federal jurisdiction. It is only where the two governments make an explicit agreement can the province legislate in federal matters.\n\n"}
{"id": "31667689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31667689", "title": "Vice President of Somalia", "text": "Vice President of Somalia\n\nThe Vice President of Somalia is a former political position in Somali Democratic Republic. Vice presidents were appointed on the discretion of the President of Somalia, Mohamed Siad Barre. \n\nA history of the office holder follows. \n\n"}
{"id": "1115992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1115992", "title": "Yugoslav Partisans", "text": "Yugoslav Partisans\n\nThe Yugoslav Partisans, or the National Liberation Army, officially the National Liberation Army and Partisan Detachments of Yugoslavia, was the Communist-led resistance to the Axis powers (chiefly Germany) in occupied Yugoslavia during World War II.\n\nIt is considered to be Europe's most effective anti-Axis resistance movement during World War II, often compared to the Polish resistance movement, albeit the latter was a mostly non-communist autonomous movement. The Yugoslav Resistance was led by the Communist Party of Yugoslavia during World War II. Its commander was Marshal Josip Broz Tito.\n\nOne of two objectives of the movement, which was the military arm of the Unitary National Liberation Front (UNOF) coalition, led by the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (KPJ) and represented by the Anti-Fascist Council for the National Liberation of Yugoslavia (AVNOJ), the Yugoslav wartime deliberative assembly, was to fight the occupying forces. Until British supplies began to arrive in appreciable quantities in 1944, the occupiers were the only source of arms. The other objective was to create a federal multi-ethnic communist state in Yugoslavia. To this end, the KPJ attempted to appeal to all the various ethnic groups within Yugoslavia, by preserving the rights of each group.\n\nThe objectives of the rival resistance movement which emerged some weeks earlier, the Chetniks, were the retention of the Yugoslav monarchy, ensuring the safety of ethnic Serb populations, and the establishment of a Greater Serbia through the ethnic cleansing of non-Serbs from territories they considered rightfully and historically Serbian. Relations between the two movements were uneasy from the start, but from October 1941 they degenerated into full-scale conflict. To the Chetniks, Tito's pan-ethnic policies seemed anti-Serbian, whereas the Chetniks' royalism was anathema to the communists. In the early part of the war Partisan forces were predominantly composed of Serbs. In that period names of Muslim and Croat commanders of Partisan forces had to be changed to protect them from their predominantly Serb colleagues.\n\nBy late 1944, the total forces of the Partisans numbered 650,000 men and women organized in four field armies and 52 divisions, which engaged in conventional warfare. By April 1945, the Partisans numbered over 800,000.\n\nThe movement was consistently referred to as the \"Partisans\" throughout the war. However, due to frequent changes in size and structural reorganizations, the Partisans throughout their history held four full official names:\nThe movement was originally named National Liberation Partisan Detachments of Yugoslavia (\"Narodnooslobodilački partizanski odredi Jugoslavije,\" NOPOJ) and held that name from June 1941 to January 1942. Because of this, their short name became simply the \"Partisans\" (capitalized), and stuck henceforward (the adjective \"Yugoslav\" is used sometimes in exclusively non-Yugoslav sources to distinguish them from other partisan movements).\n\nBetween January 1942 and November 1942, the movement's full official name was briefly National Liberation Partisan and Volunteer Army of Yugoslavia (\"Narodnooslobodilačka partizanska i dobrovoljačka vojska Jugoslavije,\" NOP i DVJ). The changes were meant to reflect the movement's character as a \"volunteer army\".\n\nIn November 1942 the movement was renamed into the National Liberation Army and Partisan Detachments of Yugoslavia (\"Narodnooslobodilačka vojska i partizanski odredi Jugoslavije,\" NOV i POJ), a name which it held until the end of the war. This last official name is the full name most associated with the Partisans, and reflects the fact that the proletarian brigades and other mobile units were organized into the National Liberation Army (\"Narodnooslobodilačka vojska\"). The name change also reflects the fact that the latter superseded in importance the partisan detachments themselves.\n\nShortly before the end of the war, in March 1945, all resistance forces were reorganized into the regular armed force of Yugoslavia and renamed Yugoslav Army. It would keep this name until 1951, when it was renamed the Yugoslav People's Army.\n\nOn 6 April 1941, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was invaded from all sides by the Axis powers, primarily by German forces, but also including Italian, Hungarian and Bulgarian formations. During the invasion, Belgrade was bombed by the \"Luftwaffe\". The invasion lasted little more than ten days, ending with the unconditional surrender of the Royal Yugoslav Army on 17 April. Besides being hopelessly ill-equipped when compared to the Wehrmacht, the Army attempted to defend all borders but only managed to thinly spread the limited resources available.\n\nThe terms of the capitulation were extremely severe, as the Axis proceeded to dismember Yugoslavia. Germany occupied northern Slovenia, while retaining direct occupation over a rump Serbian state and considerable influence over its newly created puppet state, the Independent State of Croatia (NDH), which extended over much of today's Croatia and contained all of modern Bosnia and Herzegovina and Syrmia region of modern-day Serbia. Mussolini's Italy occupied the remainder of Slovenia (annexed and renamed as the Province of Lubiana), Kosovo, and large chunks of the coastal Dalmatia region (along with nearly all its Adriatic islands). It also gained control over the newly created Montenegrin puppet state, and was granted the kingship in the Independent State of Croatia, though wielding little real power within it. Hungary dispatched the Hungarian Third Army to occupy part of Serbian Vojvodina, including Baranja and Bačka, and annexed the Croatian area of Međimurje and the Slovene area of Prekmurje. Bulgaria, meanwhile, annexed nearly all of Macedonia, and small areas of eastern Serbia and Kosovo. The dissolution of Yugoslavia, the creation of the NDH, Independent State of Montenegro and Nedic's Serbia and the annexations of Yugoslav territory by the various Axis countries were incompatible with international law in force at that time.\n\nThe occupying forces instituted such severe burdens on the local populace that the Partisans came not only to enjoy widespread support but for many were the only option for survival. Early in the occupation, German forces would hang or shoot indiscriminately, including women, children and the elderly, up to 100 local inhabitants for every one German soldier killed. Furthermore, the country experienced a breakdown of law and order, with collaborationist militias roaming the countryside terrorizing the population. The government of the puppet Independent State of Croatia found itself unable to control its territory in the early stages of the occupation, resulting in a severe crackdown by the Ustaše militias and the German army.\n\nAmid the relative chaos that ensued, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia moved to organize and unite anti-fascist factions and political forces into a nationwide uprising. The party, led by Josip Broz Tito, was banned after its significant success in the post-World War I Yugoslav elections and operated underground since. Tito, however, could not act openly without the backing of the USSR, and as the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact was still in force, he was compelled to wait.\n\nOperation Barbarossa, the Axis invasion of the Soviet Union, began on 22 June 1941.\n\nThe first communist military unit, the Sisak Brigade, was established on 22 June 1941, the day Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union. This was ignored in official Yugoslav historiography as it was not related to the Partisan movement. The first uprising, led by Tito, occurred two weeks later, in Serbia.\n\nThe Communist Party of Yugoslavia formally decided to launch an armed uprising on 4 July, a date which was later marked as Fighter's Day – a public holiday in the SFR Yugoslavia. One Žikica Jovanović Španac shot the first bullet of the campaign on 7 July, later the Uprising Day of the Socialist Republic of Serbia (part of SFR Yugoslavia).\nOn 10 August in Stanulović, a mountain village, the Partisans formed the Kopaonik Partisan Detachment Headquarters. The area they controlled, consisting of nearby villages, was called the \"Miners Republic\" and lasted 42 days. The resistance fighters formally joined the ranks of the Partisans later on. In 1941 Partisan forces in Serbia and Montenegro had around 55,000 fighters, but only 4,500 succeeded to escape to Bosnia. On 21 December 1941 they formed the 1st Proletarian Assault Brigade (\"1. Proleterska Udarna Brigada\") – the first regular Partisan military unit, capable of operating outside its local area. In 1942 Partisan detachments officially merged into the People's Liberation Army and Partisan Detachments of Yugoslavia (NOV i POJ) with an estimated 236,000 soldiers in December 1942.\n\nThe extent of support for the Partisan movement varied according to region and nationality, reflecting the existential concerns of the local population and authorities. The first Partisan uprising occurred in Croatia on 22 June 1941, when forty Croatian Communists staged an uprising in the Brezovica woods between Sisak and Zagreb. In August 1941, 7 Partisan Detachments were formed in Dalmatia with the role of spreading the uprising. On 26 August 1941, 21 members of the 1st Split Partisan Detachment were executed by firing squad after being captured by Italian and Ustashe forces. An uprising occurred in Serbia two weeks later led by Tito (Uzice Republic), but it was quickly defeated by the Axis forces and support for the Partisans in Serbia thereafter dropped. Partisan numbers from Serbia would be diminished until 1943 when the Partisan movement gained upswing by spreading the fight against the axis. Increase of number of Partisans in Serbia, similarly to other republics, came partly in response to Tito's offer of amnesty to all collaborators on 17 August 1944. At that point tens of thousands of Chetniks switched sides to the Partisans. The amnesty would be offered again after German withdrawal from Belgrade on 21 November 1944 and on 15 January 1945.\n\nIt was a different story for Serbs in Axis occupied Croatia who turned to the multi-ethnic Partisans, or the Serb royalist Chetniks. Historian Tim Judah notes that in the early stage of the war the initial preponderance of Serbs in the Partisans meant in effect a Serbian civil war had broken out. A similar civil war existed within the Croatian national corpus with the competing national narratives provided by the Ustashi and Partisans.\n\nThe Partisans staged a guerrilla campaign which enjoyed gradually increased levels of success and support of the general populace, and succeeded in controlling large chunks of Yugoslav territory. These were managed via the \"People's committees\", organized to act as civilian governments in areas of the country controlled by the communists, even limited arms industries were set up. At the very beginning, Partisan forces were relatively small, poorly armed and without any infrastructure. They had two major advantages over other military and paramilitary formations in former Yugoslavia:\n\nOccupying and quisling forces, however, were quite aware of the Partisan threat, and attempted to destroy the resistance in what Yugoslav historiographers defined as seven major enemy offensives. These are:\n\nLater in the conflict the Partisans were able to win the moral, as well as limited material support of the western Allies, who until then had supported General Draža Mihailović's Chetnik Forces, but were finally convinced of their collaboration fighting by many military missions dispatched to both sides during the course of the war.\n\nTo gather intelligence, agents of the western Allies were infiltrated into both the Partisans and the Chetniks. The intelligence gathered by liaisons to the resistance groups was crucial to the success of supply missions and was the primary influence on Allied strategy in Yugoslavia. The search for intelligence ultimately resulted in the demise of the Chetniks and their eclipse by Tito's Partisans. In 1942, although supplies were limited, token support was sent equally to each. The new year would bring a change. The Germans were executing Operation Schwarz (the Fifth anti-Partisan offensive), one of a series of offensives aimed at the resistance fighters, when F.W.D. Deakin was sent by the British to gather information.\n\nHis reports contained two important observations. The first was that the Partisans were courageous and aggressive in battling the German 1st Mountain and 104th Light Division, had suffered significant casualties, and required support. The second observation was that the entire German 1st Mountain Division had traveled from Russia by railway through Chetnik-controlled territory. British intercepts (ULTRA) of German message traffic confirmed Chetnik timidity. All in all, intelligence reports resulted in increased Allied interest in Yugoslavia air operations and shifted policy. In September 1943, at Churchill's request, Brigadier General Fitzroy Maclean was parachuted to Tito's headquarters near Drvar to serve as a permanent, formal liaison to the Partisans. While the Chetniks were still occasionally supplied, the Partisans received the bulk of all future support.\n\nThus, after the Tehran Conference the Partisans received official recognition as the legitimate national liberation force by the Allies, who subsequently set up the RAF Balkan Air Force (under the influence and suggestion of Brigadier-General Fitzroy Maclean) with the aim to provide increased supplies and tactical air support for Marshal Tito's Partisan forces. During a meeting with Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Combined Chiefs of Staff of 24 November 1943, Winston Churchill pointed out that:\n\n With Allied air support (\"Operation Flotsam\") and assistance from the Red Army, in the second half of 1944 the Partisans turned their attention to Serbia, which had seen relatively little fighting since the fall of the Republic of Užice in 1941. On 20 October, the Red Army and the Partisans liberated Belgrade in a joint operation known as the Belgrade Offensive. At the onset of winter, the Partisans effectively controlled the entire eastern half of Yugoslavia – Serbia, Vardar Macedonia and Montenegro, as well as the Dalmatian coast.\n\nIn 1945, the Partisans, numbering over 800,000 strong defeated the Armed Forces of the Independent State of Croatia and the Wehrmacht, achieving a hard-fought breakthrough in the Syrmian front in late winter, taking Sarajevo in early April, and the rest of the NDH and Slovenia through mid-May. After taking Rijeka and Istria, which were part of Italy before the war, they beat the Allies to Trieste by two days. The \"last battle of World War II in Europe\", the Battle of Poljana, was fought between the Partisans and retreating Wehrmacht and quisling forces at Poljana, near Prevalje in Carinthia, on 14–15 May 1945.\n\nThe Axis invasion led to the division of Yugoslavia between the Axis powers and the Independent State of Croatia. The largest part of Serbia was organized into the Territory of the Military Commander in Serbia and as such it was the only example of military regime in occupied Europe. The Military Committee of the Provincial Committee of the Communist Party for Serbia was formed in mid-May 1941. The Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia arrived in Belgrade in late May, and this was of great importance for the development of the resistance in Yugoslavia. After their arrival, the Central Committee held conferences with local party officials. The decision for preparing the struggle in Serbia issued on June 23, 1941 at the meeting of the Provincial Committee for Serbia. On July 5, a communist party proclamation appeared that called upon the Serbian people to struggle against the invaders. Western Serbia was chosen as the base of the uprising, which later spread to other parts of Serbia. A short-lived republic was created in the liberated west, the first liberated territory in Europe. The uprising was suppressed by German forces by 29 November 1941. The Main National Liberation Committee for Serbia is believed to have been founded in Užice on 17 November 1941. It was the body of the Partisan resistance in Serbian territory.\n\nThe Anti-fascist Assembly for the National Liberation of Serbia was held 9–12 November 1944.\n\nTito's post-war government built numerous monuments and memorials in Serbia after the war.\n\nSerbian Partisan detachments entered Bosnian territory after the Operation Uzice which saw the Serbian uprising quelled. The Bosnian Partisans were heavily reduced during Operation Trio (1942) on the resistance in eastern Bosnia.\n\nAside from ground forces, the Yugoslav Partisans were the only resistance movement in occupied Europe to employ significant air and naval forces.\n\nNaval forces of the resistance were formed as early as 19 September 1942, when Partisans in Dalmatia formed their first naval unit made of fishing boats, which gradually evolved into a force able to engage the Italian Navy and Kriegsmarine and conduct complex amphibious operations. This event is considered to be the foundation of the Yugoslav Navy. At its peak during World War II, the Yugoslav Partisans' Navy commanded 9 or 10 armed ships, 30 patrol boats, close to 200 support ships, six coastal batteries, and several Partisan detachments on the islands, around 3,000 men. On 26 October 1943, it was organized first into four, and later into six, Maritime Coastal Sectors (\"Pomorsko Obalni Sektor\", POS). The task of the naval forces was to secure supremacy at sea, organize defense of coast and islands, and attack enemy sea traffic and forces on the islands and along the coasts.\n\nThe Partisans gained an effective air force in May 1942, when the pilots of two aircraft belonging to the Air Force of the Independent State of Croatia (French-designed and Yugoslav-built Potez 25, and Breguet 19 biplanes, themselves formerly of the Royal Yugoslav Air Force), Franjo Kluz and Rudi Čajavec, defected to the Partisans in Bosnia. Later, these pilots used their aircraft against Axis forces in limited operations. Although short-lived due to a lack of infrastructure, this was the first instance of a resistance movement having its own air force. Later, the air force would be re-established and destroyed several times until its permanent institution. The Partisans later established a permanent air force by obtaining aircraft, equipment, and training from captured Axis aircraft, the British Royal Air Force (see BAF), and later the Soviet Air Force.\n\nAccording to Tito, the national composition of the Partisan army in May 1944 was 44% Serb, 30% Croat, 10% Slovene, 5% Montenegrin, 2.5% Macedonian, and 2.5% Bosnian Muslim. Italians and Hungarians were also in the army: 20,000 Italian fighters were in 9th Corps (Yugoslav Partisans), Partisan Battalion Pino Budicin, Division Garibaldi and Division Italia later. According to the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum,\nIn partitioned Yugoslavia, partisan resistance developed among the Slovenes in German-annexed Slovenia, engaging mostly in small-scale sabotage. In Serbia, a cetnik resistance organization developed under a former Yugoslav Army Colonel, Draža Mihailovic. After a disastrous defeat in an uprising in June 1941, this organization tended to withdraw from confrontation with the Axis occupying forces. The Communist-dominated Partisan organization under the leadership of Josef Tito was a multi-ethnic resistance force – including Serbs, Croats, Montenegrins, Bosniaks, Jews, and Slovenes. Based primarily in Bosnia and northwestern Serbia, Tito's Partisans fought the Germans and Italians most consistently and played a major role in driving the German forces out of Yugoslavia in 1945.\n\nBy April 1945, there were some 800,000 soldiers in the Partisan army. Composition by region (ethnicity is not taken into account) from late 1941 to late 1944 was as follows:\nThe composition of the Yugoslav partisans by ethnicity(percentage wise) in September 1941 is at it follows:\n\nThe Chetniks were a mainly Serb-oriented group and their Serb nationalism resulted in an inability to recruit or appeal to many non-Serbs. The Partisans played down communism in favour of a Popular Front approach which appealed to all Yugoslavs. In Bosnia, the Partisan rallying cry was for a country which was to be neither Serbian nor Croatian nor Muslim, but instead to be free and brotherly in which full equality of all groups would be ensured. Nevertheless, Serbs remained the dominant ethnic group in the Yugoslav Partisans throughout the war. Chetnik ethnic cleansing policies against the Muslims in Eastern Bosnia, and Dalmatia alienated Croats and Muslims from joining the Chetniks. Italian collaboration with Chetniks in northern Dalmatia resulted in atrocities which further galvanized support for the Partisans among Dalmatian Croats. Chetnik attacks on Gala, near Split, resulted in the slaughter of some 200 Croatian civilians.\n\nIn particular, Mussolini's policy of forced Italianization ensured the first significant number of Croats joining the Partisans in late 1941. In other areas, recruitment of Croats was hindered by some Serbs' tendency to view the organisation as exclusively Serb, rejecting non-Serb members and raiding the villages of their Croat neighbours. A group of Jewish youths from Sarajevo attempted to join a Partisan detachment in Kalinovnik, but the Serbian Partisans turned them back to Sarajevo, where many were captured by the Axis forces and perished. Attacks from Croatian Ustaše on the Serbian population was considered to be one of the important reasons for the rise of guerrilla activities, thus aiding an ever-growing Partisan resistance.\n\nUntil early 1942, the Partisans in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who were almost exclusively Serbs, cooperated closely with the Chetniks, and some Partisans in eastern Herzegovina and western Bosnia refused to accept Muslims into their ranks. For many Muslims, the behavior of these Serb Partisans towards them meant that there was little difference for them between the Partisans and Chetniks. However, in some areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina the Partisans were successful in attracting both Muslims and Croats from the beginning, notably in the Kozara Mountain area in north-west Bosnia and the Romanija Mountain area near Sarajevo. In the Kozara area, Muslims and Croats made up 25 percent of Partisan strength by the end of 1941.\n\nAccording to Hoare, by late 1943, 70% of the Partisans in Bosnia and Herzegovina were Serb and 30% were Croat and Muslim. At the end of 1977, Bosnian recipients of war pensions were 64.1% Serb, 23% Muslim, and 8.8% Croat.\n\nIn 1941–42, the majority of Partisans in Croatia were Serbs, but by October 1943 the majority were Croats. This change was partly due to the decision of a key Croatian Peasant Party member, Božidar Magovac, to join the Partisans in June 1943, and partly due to the surrender of Italy. According to Goldstein, among Croatian partisans at the end of 1941, 77% were Serbs and 21.5% were Croats, and others as well as unknown nationalities. The percentage of Croats in the Partisans had increased to 32% by August 1942, and 34% by September 1943. After the capitulation of Italy, it increased further. At the end of 1944 there were 60.4% Croats, 28.6% Serbs and 11% of other nationalities (2.8% Muslims, Slovenes, Montenegrins, Italians, Hungarians, Czechs, Jews and \"Volksdeutsche\") in Croatian partisan units. The Serb contribution to Croatian Partisans represented more than their proportion of the local population.\n\nCroatian Partisans were integral to overall Yugoslav Partisans; by the end of 1943 Croatia proper, with 24% of the Yugoslav population, provided more Partisans than Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia and Macedonia combined which collectively accounted for 59% of the Yugoslav population. Croatian partisans were unique in having the highest numbers of local Jews in their ranks of any other European resistance, and in early 1943 they took steps to establish ZAVNOH (National Anti-Fascist Council of the People's Liberation of Croatia) to act as a parliamentary body for all of Croatia – the only one of its kind in occupied Europe. ZAVNOH held three plenary sessions during the war in areas which remained surrounded by Axis troops. At its fourth and last session, held on 24–25 July 1945 in Zagreb, ZAVNOH proclaimed itself as the Croatian Parliament or Sabor. In the liberated territories of Croatia after the war, Croatian Partisans proclaimed the Democratic Republic which was referred to by Winston Churchill as \"the Croatian miracle.\"\n\nDuring World War II, Slovenia was in a unique situation in Europe. Only Greece shared its experience of being trisected; however, Slovenia was the only country that experienced a further step – absorption and annexation into neighboring Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Hungary. As the very existence of the Slovene nation was threatened, the Slovene support for the Partisan movement was much more solid than in Croatia or Serbia. An emphasis on the defence of ethnic identity was shown by naming the troops after important Slovene poets and writers, following the example of the Ivan Cankar battalion.\n\nAt the very beginning the Partisan forces were small, poorly armed and without any infrastructure, but Spanish Civil War veterans amongst them had some experience with guerrilla warfare. The Partisan movement in Slovenia functioned as the military arm of the Liberation Front of the Slovene Nation, an Anti-Fascist resistance platform established in the Province of Ljubljana on 26 April 1941, which originally consisted of multiple groups of left wing orientation, most notable being Communist Party and Christian Socialists. During the course of the war, the influence of the Communist Party of Slovenia started to grow, until its supremacy was officially sanctioned in the Dolomiti Declaration of 1 March 1943. Some of the members of Liberation Front and partisans were ex-members of the TIGR resistance movement.\n\nRepresentatives of all political groups in Liberation Front participated in Supreme Plenum of Liberation Front, which led the resistance efforts in Slovenia. Supreme Plenum was active until 3 October 1943 when, at the Assembly of the Slovenian Nation's Delegates in Kočevje, the 120-member Liberation Front Plenum was elected as the supreme body of the Slovenian Liberation Front. The plenum also functioned as Slovenian National Liberation Committee, the supreme authority in Slovenia. Some historians consider the Kočevje Assembly to be the first Slovene elected parliament and Slovene Partisans as its representatives also participated on 2nd session of the AVNOJ and were instrumental in adding the self-determination clause to the resolution on the establishment of a new federal Yugoslavia. The Liberation Front Plenum was renamed the Slovenian National Liberation Council at the conference in Črnomelj on 19 February 1944 and transformed into the Slovenian parliament.\n\nThe Slovene Partisans retained their specific organizational structure and Slovene language as the commanding language until the last months of World War II, when their language was removed as the commanding language. From 1942 till after 1944, they wore the \"Triglavka\" cap, which was then gradually replaced with the \"Titovka\" cap as part of their uniform. In March 1945, the Slovene Partisan Units were officially merged with the Yugoslav Army and thus ceased to exist as a separate formation.\n\nThe partisan activities in Slovenia started in 1941 and were independent of Tito's partisans in the south. In autumn 1942, Tito attempted for the first time to control the Slovene resistance movement. Arsa Jovanović, a leading Yugoslav communist who was sent from Tito's Supreme Command of Yugoslav partisan resistance, ended his mission to establish central control over the Slovene partisans unsuccessfully in April 1943. The merger of the Slovene Partisans with Tito's forces happened in 1944.\n\nIn December 1943, Franja Partisan Hospital was built in difficult and rugged terrain, only a few hours from Austria and the central parts of Germany. The partisans broadcast their own radio program called \"Radio Kričač\", the location of which never became known to occupying forces, although the receiver antennas from the local population had been confiscated.\n\nDespite their success, the Partisans suffered heavy casualties throughout the war. The table depicts Partisan losses, 7 July 1941 – 16 May 1945:\n\nThe Partisans were responsible for the successful and sustained evacuation of downed Allied airmen from the Balkans. For example, between 1 January and 15 October 1944, according to statistics compiled by the US Air Force Air Crew Rescue Unit, 1,152 American airmen were airlifted from Yugoslavia, 795 with Partisan assistance and 356 with the help of the Chetniks. Yugoslav Partisans in Slovene territory rescued 303 American airmen, 389 British airmen and prisoners of war, and 120 French and other prisoners of war and slave laborers.\n\nThe Partisans also assisted hundreds of Allied soldiers who succeeded in escaping from German POW camps (mostly in southern Austria) throughout the war, but especially from 1943–45. These were transported across Slovenia, from where many were airlifted from Semič, while others made the longer overland trek down through Croatia for a boat passage to Bari in Italy. In the spring of 1944, the British military mission in Slovenia reported that there was a \"steady, slow trickle\" of escapes from these camps. They were being assisted by local civilians, and on contacting Partisans on the general line of the River Drava, they were able to make their way to safety with Partisan guides.\n\nA total of 132 Allied prisoners of war were rescued from the Germans by the Partisans in a single operation in August 1944 in what is known as the Raid at Ožbalt. In June 1944, the Allied escape organization began to take an active interest in assisting prisoners from camps in southern Austria and evacuating them through Yugoslavia. A post of the Allied mission in northern Slovenia had found that at Ožbalt, just on the Austrian side of the border, about from Maribor, there was a poorly guarded working camp from which a raid by Slovene Partisans could free all the prisoners. Over 100 POWs were transported from Stalag XVIII-D at Maribor to Ožbalt each morning to do railway maintenance work, and returned to their quarters in the evening. Contact was made between Partisans and the prisoners with the result that at the end of August a group of seven slipped away past a sleeping guard at 15:00, and at 21:00 the men were celebrating with the Partisans in a village, away on the Yugoslav side of the border.\n\nThe seven escapees arranged with the Partisans for the rest of the camp to be freed the following day. Next morning, the seven returned with about a hundred Partisans to await the arrival of the work-party by the usual train. As soon as work had begun the Partisans, to quote a New Zealand eye-witness, \"swooped down the hillside and disarmed the eighteen guards\". In a short time prisoners, guards, and civilian overseers were being escorted along the route used by the first seven prisoners the previous evening. At the first headquarters camp reached, details were taken of the total of 132 escaped prisoners for transmission by radio to England. Progress along the evacuation route south was difficult, as German patrols were very active. A night ambush by one such patrol caused the loss of two prisoners and two of the escort. Eventually they reached Semič, in White Carniola, Slovenia, which was a Partisan base catering for POWs. They were flown across to Bari on 21 September 1944 from the airport of Otok near Gradac.\n\nSFR Yugoslavia was one of only two European countries that were largely liberated by its own forces during World War II. It received significant assistance from the Soviet Union during the liberation of Serbia, and substantial assistance from the Balkan Air Force from mid-1944, but only limited assistance, mainly from the British, prior to 1944. At the end of the war no foreign troops were stationed on its soil. Partly as a result, the country found itself halfway between the two camps at the onset of the Cold War.\n\nIn 1947–48, the Soviet Union attempted to command obedience from Yugoslavia, primarily on issues of foreign policy, which resulted in the Tito-Stalin split and almost ignited an armed conflict. A period of very cool relations with the Soviet Union followed, during which the U.S. and the UK considered courting Yugoslavia into the newly formed NATO. This however changed in 1953 with the Trieste crisis, a tense dispute between Yugoslavia and the Western Allies over the eventual Yugoslav-Italian border (see Free Territory of Trieste), and with Yugoslav-Soviet reconciliation in 1956. This ambivalent position at the start of the Cold War matured into the non-aligned foreign policy which Yugoslavia actively espoused until its dissolution.\n\nA number of Partisan units, and the local population in some areas, engaged in mass murder in the immediate postwar period against POWs and other perceived Axis sympathizers, collaborators, and/or fascists along with their relatives, including children. These infamous massacres include the Bleiburg repatriations, the Foibe massacres, Tezno massacre, Macelj massacre, Kočevski Rog massacre, Barbara Pit massacre and the communist purges in Serbia in 1944–45.\n\nThe repatriations at Bleiburg (although scholars disagree on how many people died and no number has been officially recognized or agreed upon) of retreating columns of Chetnik and Slovene Home Guard troops, and soldiers of the Armed Forces of the Independent State of Croatia and thousands of civilians heading or retreating towards Austria to surrender to western Allied forces, have been called a \"massacre\". The \"foibe massacres\" draw their name from the \"foibe\" pits in which Croatian Partisans of the 8th Dalmatian Corps (often along with groups of angry civilian locals) shot Italian fascists, and suspected collaborationists and/or separatists. According to a mixed Slovene-Italian historical commission established in 1993, which investigated only on what happened in places included in present-day Italy and Slovenia, the killings seemed to proceed from endeavors to remove persons linked with fascism (regardless of their personal responsibility), and endeavors to carry out mass executions of real, potential or only alleged opponents of the Communist government. The 1944-1945 killings in Bačka were similar in nature and entailed the killing of suspected Hungarian, German and Serbian fascists, and their suspected affiliates, without regard to their personal responsibility. During this purge, a large number of civilians from the associated ethnic group were also killed.\n\nThe Partisans did not have an official agenda of liquidating their enemies and their cardinal ideal was the \"brotherhood and unity\" of all Yugoslav nations (the phrase became the motto for the new Yugoslavia). The country suffered between 900,000 and 1,150,000 civilian and military dead during the Axis occupation. Between 80,000 and 100,000 people were killed in the partisan purges and at least 30,000 people were killed in the Bleiburg killings, according to Marcus Tanner in his work, \"Croatia: a Nation Forged in War\".\n\nThis chapter of Partisan history was a taboo subject for conversation in the SFR Yugoslavia until the late 1980s, and as a result, decades of official silence created a reaction in the form of numerous data manipulation for nationalist propaganda purposes.\n\nThe first small arms for the Partisans were acquired from the defeated Royal Yugoslav Army, like the M24 Mauser rifle. Throughout the war the Partisans used any weapons they could find, mostly weapons captured from the Germans, Italians, Army of the NDH, Ustaše and the Chetniks, such as the Karabiner 98k rifle, MP 40 submachine gun, MG 34 machine gun, Carcano rifles and carbines and Beretta submachine guns. The other way that the Partisans acquired weapons was from supplies given to them by the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom, including the PPSh-41 and the Sten MKII submachine guns respectively. Additionally, Partisan workshops created their own weapons modelled on factory-made weapons already in use, including the so-called \"Partisan rifle\" and the anti-tank \"Partisan mortar\".\n\nThe Yugoslav Partisans mobilized many women. The Yugoslav National Liberation Movement claimed 6,000,000 civilian supporters; its two million women formed the Antifascist Front of Women (AFŽ), in which the revolutionary coexisted with the traditional. The AFŽ managed schools, hospitals and even local governments. About 100,000 women served with 600,000 men in Tito's Yugoslav National Liberation Army. It stressed its dedication to women's rights and gender equality and used the imagery of traditional folklore heroines to attract and legitimize the partizanka (Partisan Woman). After the war, women returned to traditional gender roles, but Yugoslavia is unique as its historians paid extensive attention to women's roles in the resistance, until the country broke up in the 1990s. Then the memory of the women soldiers faded away.\n\nAccording to Vladimir Dedijer, more than 40,000 works of folk poetry were inspired by the Partisans.\n\n\n\n"}
