{"id": "13641012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13641012", "title": "1961 in radio", "text": "1961 in radio\n\nThe year 1961 in radio involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31101372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31101372", "title": "1971 Scottish soldiers' killings", "text": "1971 Scottish soldiers' killings\n\nThe three Scottish soldiers' murders was an incident that took place in Northern Ireland during the Troubles. It happened on 10 March 1971, when the Provisional Irish Republican Army shot dead three unarmed British Army soldiers of the 1st Battalion, Royal Highland Fusiliers. Two of the three were teenage brothers; all three were from Scotland. They were murdered off-duty and in civilian clothes, having been lured from a city-centre bar in Belfast, driven to a remote location and shot whilst relieving themselves by the roadside. Three British soldiers had been killed prior to this event; all had been on duty and killed during rioting.\n\nThe deaths led to public mourning and protests against the Provisional IRA. Pressure to act precipitated a political crisis for the government of Northern Ireland, which led to the resignation of Northern Ireland Prime Minister James Chichester-Clark. The British Army raised the minimum age needed to serve in Northern Ireland to 18 in response to this incident. In 2010 a memorial was dedicated to the three soldiers near to where they were killed in north Belfast.\n\nBritish troops had been deployed to Northern Ireland in 1969 for Operation Banner in response to a deteriorating security situation following the 1969 Northern Ireland riots. The British Army had become involved in the disturbances culminating in the Falls Curfew of July 1970. The Provisional Irish Republican Army was created in December 1969 after a split from the Official Irish Republican Army. After the split, the Provisional IRA planned for an \"all-out offensive action against the British occupation\". Provisional IRA Chief of Staff Seán Mac Stíofáin decided they would \"escalate, escalate and escalate\" until the British agreed to go. The IRA Army Council sanctioned offensive operations against the British Army at the beginning of 1971. In this year, Robert Curtis was the first British soldier shot and killed by the Provisional IRA, on 6 February 1971, and two more soldiers were killed prior to 10 March.\n\nBrothers John and Joseph McCaig from Ayr and Dougald McCaughey from Glasgow in Scotland (ages 17, 18 and 23) were privates serving with the 1st Battalion, The Royal Highland Fusiliers, stationed at Girdwood barracks in Belfast. The shootings occurred on 10 March 1971 after the three soldiers had been granted an afternoon pass which allowed them to leave their base. McCaughey's younger brother was serving in the same unit but was on duty and unable to join them. The three soldiers were off-duty, unarmed and in civilian clothes. They were drinking in \"Mooney's\", a Belfast city centre bar in Cornmarket, one of the safer areas of the city for soldiers at this stage in \"the Troubles\". The three previous shootings that year had occurred in different circumstances, during rioting. One report said that the three Scottish soldiers were enticed into a car by Republican women who promised them a party. The three were taken to the White Brae, Squire's Hill, off the Ligoniel Road in North Belfast. There they were murdered by Provisional IRA members; two were shot in the back of the head and the other in the chest.\n\nThe day after the killings, British Home Secretary Reginald Maudling made a statement in the House of Commons in which he informed the house that security arrangements for off-duty soldiers were being reviewed and suggested that the aim of the killers was to provoke the security forces into reprisals. He said that: \nThe funerals were held in Scotland with John and Joseph McCaig buried together in Ayr. Their older brother, serving with the Royal Marines in Singapore, was flown home for the service. That day, 20,000 people attended rallies in Belfast and Carrickfergus. In Belfast, the cenotaph at the City Hall was the focus of the mourning with 10,000 people attending including workers from factories in a gathering that stopped the traffic in the city centre. Many wept openly. The Reverend Ian Paisley led the mourners in laying dozens of wreaths. The crowd observed a two-minute silence and sang a hymn and the national anthem.\n\nThe deaths led to a crisis for the government of Northern Ireland with calls for increased security measures. Ian Paisley demanded the Stormont Government's resignation, saying \"We can no longer tolerate your weakness. You must go before the whole land is deluged with the blood of innocent men and women.\" On 12 March, 4,000 shipyard workers took to the streets of Belfast to demand internment. The Northern Ireland Prime Minister James Chichester-Clark flew to London to request more troops, and when the numbers were not what he wanted, he resigned. On 23 March 1971, Brian Faulkner was elected Ulster Unionist Party leader and was appointed Prime Minister the same day.\n\nThe British Army raised the minimum age for serving in Northern Ireland to 18 in response to the death of 17-year-old John McCaig.\n\nNo one has been convicted of the killings. The \"Daily Mirror\" reported in November 2007 that three Provisional IRA men were responsible for the deaths: Martin Meehan (died 2007)- Meehan was questioned over the killings but was never charged; Patrick McAdorey- McAdorey was shot and killed in August 1971 during a gun battle in the Ardoyne area of Belfast. He was also suspected of the fatal shooting, hours before his own death, of Private Malcolm Hatton of the Green Howards.; and a third unnamed man. The case of the three soldiers is one of those being re-examined by the Police Service of Northern Ireland's Historical Enquiries Team.\n\nThe mother of the two McCaig brothers visited the site of their deaths in May 1972. She expressed a wish to leave a monument to her sons but was advised that it might well be damaged by vandals. She later said that she was touched by the wreaths and flowers that had been left at the spot.\n\nIn 2010 the Royal British Legion Oldpark/Cavehill branch in Belfast raised money from the sale of badges to erect a memorial to the men. On 28 May 2010, a memorial stone was placed at the site of the killings on Squire's Hill by the families and former regimental colleagues of the three soldiers. The next day a 15-foot obelisk incorporating carved images of the deceased was dedicated to the soldiers at nearby Ballysillan Avenue. A service of remembrance with regimental drums and colours was then held at Ballysillan leisure centre attended by around 1000 people including Lord Mayor of Belfast Naomi Long and North Belfast MP Nigel Dodds.\n\nThe memorial at White Brae, Ligoniel, that marks the place of the killings has been vandalised several times since 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38217572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38217572", "title": "1982 in philosophy", "text": "1982 in philosophy\n\n1982 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56296165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56296165", "title": "2018 Hawaii false missile alert", "text": "2018 Hawaii false missile alert\n\nOn January 13, 2018, a false ballistic missile alert was issued via the Emergency Alert System and Commercial Mobile Alert System over television, radio, and cellphones in the U.S. state of Hawaii. The alert stated that there was an incoming ballistic missile threat to Hawaii, advised residents to seek shelter, and concluded \"This is not a drill\". The message was sent at 8:07 a.m. local time. However, no civil defense outdoor warning sirens were authorized or sounded by the state.\n\nA second message, sent 38 minutes later, described the first as a \"false alarm\". State officials blamed a miscommunication during a drill at the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency for the first message. Governor David Ige publicly apologized for the erroneous alert, which caused panic and disruption throughout the state. The Federal Communications Commission and the Hawaii House of Representatives launched investigations into the incident, leading to the resignation of the state's emergency management administrator.\n\nEscalating tensions between North Korea and the United States, including threats by both countries that they could use nuclear weapons against one another, prompted a heightened state of readiness in Hawaii. North Korea had conducted several intercontinental ballistic missile tests over the past year, most recently in November 2017, enhancing its strike capabilities. It is possible that North Korea has the capability to deliver nuclear missiles to Hawaii. Hawaii is located roughly from North Korea, and a missile launched from North Korea would leave perhaps 12 to 15 minutes of warning time.\n\nHawaii officials had been working for some time to refresh the state's emergency plans in case of a nuclear attack from North Korea. An October 2017 email from the University of Hawaii to students with the subject line \"In the event of a nuclear attack\", containing instructions from the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency on how to react in case of a nuclear attack, caused controversy; a university spokesman ultimately apologized for \"any needless concern it may have caused\". Testing of the civil defense warning sirens and attack drills were also conducted in the state on the first business day of the month beginning in December 2017. On December 1, 2017, a nuclear threat siren was tested in Hawaii for the first time in more than 30 years, the first of what state officials said would be monthly drills. At 11:45 a.m. on January 2, 2018, the state conducted its monthly test of the civil defense outdoor warning siren system including the sounding of a one-minute Attention Alert Signal (Steady Tone) followed by a one-minute Attack Warning Signal (Wailing Tone). There was no exercise or drill accompanying the test. Prior to January 13, 2018, 26 drills had been conducted. Vern Miyagi, administrator of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, explained that state leaders \"couldn't ignore these constant threats and missile tests from North Korea\" and felt the need to prepare residents for the possibility of an attack. Officials also outlined what would happen if an emergency alert were sent: a push alert to smartphones and a message interrupting television and radio broadcasts. The J-Alert used in Japan to warn of tsunamis, etc., also uses the push message notifications.\n\nEarlier in January 2018, U.S. Federal Communications Commission chairman Ajit Pai said the commission planned to vote to overhaul the wireless emergency alert system. The proposed reforms include providing more detailed information in alerts and confining emergency notifications to a more specific geographic area. Pai said he hoped the reforms, which would take effect in late 2019 if approved by the FCC, would lead to greater use of the alert system in local emergency situations and prompt people to take alerts they receive more seriously.\n\nThe alert was sent at 8:07 a.m. Hawaii–Aleutian Standard Time. People in Hawaii reported seeing the alert on their smartphones. Many screenshots of the push alert were shared on social media platforms, such as Twitter. The alert read, in all capital letters:\n\nBALLISTIC MISSILE THREAT INBOUND TO HAWAII. SEEK IMMEDIATE SHELTER. THIS IS NOT A DRILL.\n\nLocal television broadcasts, including a college basketball game between Florida and Ole Miss being shown on CBS affiliate KGMB and a Premier League match between Tottenham Hotspur and Everton on NBC affiliate KHNL (both under the ownership and management of Raycom Media under the same operational hub), were also interrupted by a similar alert message, broadcast as a Civil Danger Warning. The alert message on television broadcasts took the form of both an audio message and a scrolling banner. It stated in part:\n\nThe U.S. Pacific Command has detected a missile threat to Hawaii. A missile may impact on land or sea within minutes. THIS IS NOT A DRILL. If you are indoors, stay indoors. If you are outdoors, seek immediate shelter in a building. Remain indoors well away from windows. If you are driving, pull safely to the side of the road and seek shelter in a building or lay on the floor. We will announce when the threat has ended. THIS IS NOT A DRILL. Take immediate action measures.\n\nAn alert message also interrupted radio broadcasts in the state. In Lihue, a resident reported hearing a message on the radio advising of \"an incoming missile warning for the islands of Kauai and Hawaii\".\n\nCulpability for the false alert was attributed to an employee at the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, who officials said was a 10-year agency veteran who had previously exhibited behavior that had troubled coworkers, according to \"The Washington Post\". Vern Miyagi, then-administrator of HI-EMA, said the alert had been inadvertently triggered by the employee as he was working at the Diamond Head Crater headquarters during a shift change. During the shift change, a supervisor ran an unscheduled drill in which he contacted emergency management workers in the guise of an officer from U.S. Pacific Command, according to state officials. The supervisor deviated from the script, officials said, erroneously stating at one point, \"This is not a drill,\" although he reportedly did state before and after the message, \"Exercise, exercise, exercise,\" agency code to indicate a test rather than an actual emergency.\n\nOfficials said that upon hearing the supervisor's statement, the employee, who had a reported history of having \"confused real life events and drills\" at least twice before and later attested in a written statement that he believed there was an actual emergency, clicked the button to send out an actual notification on Hawaii's emergency alert interface during what was intended to be a test of the state's ballistic missile preparations computer program and then clicked through a second screen, which had been intended as a safeguard, to confirm. An agency spokesman told \"The Washington Post\" that the employee, prompted to choose between the options \"test missile alert\" and \"missile alert\", had selected the latter, initiating the alert sent out across the state. The employee later claimed to the Associated Press that he had not heard the \"exercise\" part of the phone call because a co-worker had placed it on speakerphone partway into the message, and as a result, he had been \"100 percent sure\" the attack was real. State officials said five other workers were present at the agency at the time and all of them recognized the phone call as an impromptu drill.\n\nBy 8:10 a.m. HST, officials later said, Hawaii National Guard Adjutant General Arthur \"Joe\" Logan had contacted U.S. Pacific Command and confirmed there had been no missile launch. At that time, the Honolulu Police Department was notified that the alert had been a false alarm. Officials used the State Warning Point system at 8:13 a.m. to cancel the alert, preventing it from being sent out to any phones that had not already received it, such as those that were switched off or did not have reception. The employee who originally sent out the erroneous notification did not respond when directed to cancel the alert, according to state officials. He later said he felt like he had been dealt a \"body blow\" upon realizing the supposed attack had been a drill, the Associated Press reported. Another unidentified worker grabbed the employee's computer mouse and cancelled the alert when the first employeee failed to respond.\n\nOfficial messages refuting the emergency alert were not sent out until 8:20 a.m., according to the timeline released by officials after the incident. Hawaii Emergency Management Agency accounts on Facebook and Twitter posted messages at that time urging people to disregard the erroneous alert. Minutes later, Governor David Ige retweeted the HI-EMA message on Twitter and posted a similar message on Facebook to notify followers that the alert had been canceled. Ige later said the delay was caused in part by the fact he did not know his Twitter login information. An email from the state was also sent at about 8:25 a.m. advising that the initial alert was not correct, the \"Honolulu Star-Advertiser\" reported.\n\nElectronic highway signs were also used to spread the word that the alert had been issued \"in error\" and that there was no threat to Hawaii.\n\nAt 8:45 a.m. HST, 38 minutes after the initial alert was sent to smartphones in Hawaii, a second emergency alert was sent, which stated: \n\nThere is no missile threat or danger to the State of Hawaii. Repeat. False Alarm.\n\nThe second alert was sent \"well after everyone from Hawaii's congressional delegation to the U.S. Pacific Command had assured the world on Twitter that it was a false alarm\", \"Pacific Business News\" remarked.\n\nGovernor David Ige explained at a news conference that afternoon that officials \"had to initiate a manual process\" and obtain authorization from the Federal Emergency Management Agency in order to send the second alert, because there was no automated way to countermand the first alert. Those procedures accounted for the delay more than 30 minutes after officials had confirmed internally that the alert was inaccurate, according to officials.\n\nDuring the 38 minutes between the first and second alerts, Hawaii's siren warning system — which had been tested as part of a missile preparedness exercise the previous month for the first time since the Cold War — was not formally activated. Had a missile truly been launched, the Hawaii push alert should have been followed up with another set of alarms with sirens, which did not happen, as observed by some residents. Nevertheless, officials stated that some sirens did appear to go off in some communities, with some residents reporting sirens activated on Oahu a few minutes after the push notification. Little to no activity was reported at military bases in the state. Some commercial flights were reportedly delayed for a short time, although the Hawaii Department of Transportation said there were no widespread impacts at the state's airports and harbors.\n\nDisruptions were reported across the state. \"Honolulu Civil Beat\" reported that motorists parked inside the Interstate H-3 tunnel on the island of Oahu for shelter. Hawaii News Now reported that alarms sounded at Aloha Gymfest, an international gymnastics meet in Kailua, sending hundreds of people running for cover. Students at the University of Hawaii at Manoa reportedly headed for marked fallout shelters on campus but, finding them locked, ended up taking shelter in nearby classrooms instead. Officials at the Sony Open PGA Tour golf tournament on Oahu ordered an evacuation of the media center, while staff members sought cover in the kitchen and players' locker room. Tourists at Kualoa Ranch in Kaneohe were reportedly taken up to a concrete bunker in the mountains by staff and told to shelter in place there. Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa later said her husband had been driving on a Honolulu-area freeway and saw cars speeding at up to after the alert was sent out. Many Hawaii residents and visitors sought shelter or rushed through emergency preparations where they were. Some discounted the alarm when they realized that they heard no sirens, and that they personally saw no immediate coverage on television or local radio. Others were in areas where sirens did go off; in addition, some television stations did broadcast the alert.\n\nThe incident also created a strain on Hawaii's telephone system. Civil Defense offices in Hawaii were inundated with calls from frightened residents asking for advice or more information, the \"New Zealand Herald\" reported. Many calls to 9-1-1 would not go through. Many wireless data services were likewise initially jammed, leaving many unable to access the Internet to confirm whether the alarm was real. Some residents called friends or family members to say goodbye.\n\nU.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis reported that the false alert did not appear to have prompted any sort of reaction from the North Korean government.\n\nTwitter posts and screenshots of text messages shared on social media in the immediate wake of the first alert conveyed confusion, alarm, and fear among those who received the warning.\n\nMembers of Hawaii's congressional delegation also took to Twitter to dispel the false alarm. Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard tweeted at 8:19 a.m. HST, about 12 minutes after the initial alert was sent, stating in all capitals that the message was a \"false alarm\" and that she had confirmed with officials that there was no incoming ballistic missile toward Hawaii. The next day, she told CNN that the incident highlighted the need for President Donald Trump to negotiate with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un to resolve nuclear tensions between the United States and North Korea, and she called for those responsible for the erroneous alert in Hawaii \"to be held accountable\". Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa, a 2018 candidate for governor, tweeted that the \"panic and fear created by this false alarm was very dangerous\". In further comments, Hanabusa panned the delay between the two emergency alerts, suggesting it should not have taken 38 minutes for the second message to be sent. Senator Mazie Hirono tweeted that officials \"need to get to the bottom of what happened and make sure it never happens again\". In his own tweets immediately after the incident, Senator Brian Schatz repeated that the first alert had been a false alarm. He described the erroneous alert message as \"totally inexcusable\", adding, \n\nThe whole state was terrified. There needs to be tough and quick accountability and a fixed process.\n\nCommander David Benham, a spokesman for U.S. Pacific Command, confirmed to media that there was no imminent missile threat to Hawaii. A spokesman for North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) stated that \"NORAD did not see anything that indicated any sort of threat to Hawaii\" and said NORAD and U.S. Northern Command were still verifying what had happened. A White House official said the alert had been part of \"a state exercise\" and President Trump was briefed on the situation. Trump ordered National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster to take charge of the administration's response to the incident. About the incident, Trump said, \"They made a mistake.\"\n\nU.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said the incident was \"unfortunate\" and officials were working to prevent a similar false alert from being issued in the future. Speaking on Fox News the next day, she said people \"can trust government systems\" and should pay attention to any alerts they receive from authorities in the future, in spite of the January 13 incident in Hawaii.\n\nAjit Pai, chairman of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, announced the commission would launch a full investigation into the false alert. He blamed Hawaii's government for not having \"reasonable safeguards or process controls in place to prevent the transmission of a false alert\", later stating that other agencies should \"learn from these mistakes\".\n\nGabbard stated in an interview after the second emergency alert was sent that the incident was \"a taste of the stark reality of what we face here of a potential nuclear strike on Hawaii\", referring to the possibility of a North Korean attack. She and former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry both said the false alert highlighted the possibility of an \"accidental nuclear war\", in which a technical or human error leads to the use of nuclear weapons due to a misunderstanding or misinterpretation.\n\nHonolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell also tweeted that the message had been a false alarm, saying the message had been sent in error, before the second alert was sent out by the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency.\n\nHI-EMA administrator Vern Miyagi took responsibility for the incident, ultimately resigning over it. Miyagi described the initial warning as a \"mistake\", saying it \"should have been caught\" before the alert was sent out. HI-EMA officials, including Miyagi, said there was no evidence that the agency's systems had been hacked to send the false emergency message.\n\nMiyagi apologized for the false alert, as did Governor David Ige, who called the incident \"unfortunate and regrettable\". They said officials would review the state's procedures to prevent it from happening again. Ige said: \n\nI know first-hand how today's false alarm affected all of us here in Hawaii, and I am sorry for the pain and confusion it caused. I, too, am extremely upset about this and am doing everything I can do to immediately improve our emergency management systems, procedures and staffing.\n\nHawaii Senate Majority Leader J. Kalani English said he was \"outraged\" by the error, which caused unnecessary \"panic and pandemonium\" throughout the state. Hawaii House of Representatives Speaker Scott K. Saiki announced the House would investigate the incident: \n\nThis system we have been told to rely upon failed and failed miserably today. I am deeply troubled by this misstep that could have had dire consequences. Measures must be taken to avoid further incidents that caused wholesale alarm and chaos today. Clearly, government agencies are not prepared and lack the capacity to deal with emergency situations. Apparently, the wrong button was pushed and it took over 30 minutes for a correction to be announced. Parents and children panicked during those 30 minutes. The Hawaii House of Representatives will immediately investigate what happened and there be consequences. This cannot happen again.\n\nThe deputy adjutant of the Hawaii National Guard said that notwithstanding the erroneous alert, people should continue to follow instructions and take shelter if another alert is sent in the future.\n\nState officials held a news conference in the afternoon of January 13 to address the incident. State officials placed former Hawaii Army National Guard commander Bruce E. Oliveira in charge of internally investigating the events that resulted in the false alert being sent out. In his report, published January 30, Oliveira faulted \"insufficient management controls, poor computer software design, and human factors\" for the incident.\n\nOfficials did not name the employee responsible for the error. Hawaii Emergency Management Agency head Vern Miyagi initially declined to say whether the employee, who he said felt \"terrible\" about the false alert, would face discipline. An agency spokesman said January 14 the employee had been \"temporarily reassigned\" to a position that did not allow him access to the emergency warning system, pending the result of the internal investigation. The employee was ultimately fired on January 26, following findings in Oliveira's investigation regarding his work history and failure to follow directions. A second employee, who was also not identified and whose role in the incident was not disclosed, was suspended without pay. Toby Clairmont, HI-EMA's executive officer, announced January 20 he planned to retire by the end of the year.\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission also announced that it would conduct a full investigation into the incident. On January 25, an FCC official announced that the former employee responsible for sending the false report was refusing to cooperate with the FCC probe of the incident. The FCC report, released January 30, faulted the state for failing to quickly notify the public and not having safeguards in place sufficient to prevent the error. FCC Chairman Ajit Pai stated: \n\nEvery state and local government that originates alerts needs to learn from these mistakes. Each should make sure they have adequate safeguards in place. … The public needs to be able to trust that when the government issues an alert it is indeed a credible alert.\n\nMiyagi resigned as HI-EMA administrator the same day the state and federal reports were released. Clairmont announced his resignation a day later.\n\nThen-administrator Vern Miyagi said the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency suspended tests while assessing what had happened following the incident. He also announced the agency immediately changed its procedures to require two people, instead of just one, to send out both test alerts and actual alerts. HI-EMA employees will be \"counseled and drilled so this never happens again\", Miyagi said January 14.\n\nGovernor David Ige announced January 15 that he was appointing Brigadier General Kenneth Hara, Hawaii's deputy adjutant general, to oversee a review of the state's emergency management systems and procedures and implement reforms. The agency also moved quickly to implement a cancellation command that officials said can be triggered within seconds of an erroneous alert being sent out, which it reportedly lacked before the January 13 incident. The Hawaii emergency alert interface screen was updated with a \"BMD False Alarm\" selection the same day, addressing a system deficiency that made it difficult for the state to countermand an alert sent in error.\n\nHI-EMA reported that some of its employees received death threats after the false alert incident. In a rare public address, Ige called the threats \"completely unacceptable\" and said he was \"ultimately responsible\" for the error.\n\nAlthough Governor Ige's office issued on February 27, 2018, a \"Siren and Emergency Alert System Test\" for March 1, 2018, the state of Hawaii did not test the nuclear warning siren in March and dropped its monthly test of the nuclear warning siren beginning on March 1, 2018.\n\nIn July 2018, the FCC issued a report and order which makes changes to EAS regulations to \"improve the integrity, efficacy, and reliability\" of the system and \"minimize the potential for false alerts.\" The changes require EAS participants to configure their hardware to \"reject Common Alerting Protocol-based alerts that contain an invalid digital signature and legacy (over-the-air)-based alerts whose expiration time falls outside of specific time limits\", and report any false alarms to the FCC. The commission also implemented procedures for authorizing voluntarily participation in \"live code\" tests—public exercises that simulate an actual emergency in order to \"promote greater proficiency\" in the system by EAS operators and participants. These changes were the result of recommendations from the FCC's report on the Hawaii incident.\n\nAt 8:18 a.m. HST on October 3, 2018, the first national Wireless Emergency Alert (WEA) test, also known as the Presidential Alert text system, was broadcast by FEMA in coordination with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) through cell phone towers to wireless devices. The subject read, “Presidential Alert” and the text message sent read, “THIS IS A TEST of the National Wireless Emergency Alert System. No action is needed.” Since the WEA test was issued on behalf of the President, no one could opt out. The 8:18 a.m. HST WEA test lasted for 30 minutes and was followed at 8:20 a.m. HST with the fourth nationwide Emergency Alert System (EAS) test which lasted about a minute and involved radio and television broadcasters, cable systems, satellite radio and television providers, and wireline video providers. These two tests were scheduled for September 20, 2018, but the occurrence of Hurricane Florence caused the two tests to be postponed. Although FEMA called this a national test of Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS), neither the National Weather Service (NWS) nor the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Weather Radios participated in the tests.\n\nNorth Korea's \"Rodong Sinmun\", the ruling Communist Party newspaper, described the false alarm as a \"tragicomedy.\"\n\nAn official with the Division of Homeland Security & Emergency Management in the U.S. state of Alaska, also believed to be within the theoretical range of North Korean nuclear missiles, said his department encourages Alaskans to shelter in place rather than trying to get elsewhere if there is an attack, as many people in Hawaii did after the false alert was issued.\n\nU.S. Senator Brian Schatz, one of Hawaii's two members of the United States Senate, introduced federal legislation that would prohibit state and local agencies from notifying the public of a missile launch, placing the responsibility on federal authorities to make that determination.\n\nOn January 16, an NHK news staffer sent an erroneous alert about a North Korean missile fired at Japan to 300,000 followers of its \"NHK News and Disaster Prevention\" service. Previously, NHK and other Japanese media sent alerts for each North Korean missile test.\n\nOn January 29, 2018, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission informed the Standing Senate Committee on National Security and Defence, that it would delay a mandate for all cellular providers in Canada to implement a similar mobile alerting system by April 2018. The telecom regulator cited, among other things, the possibility of false alarms such as the Hawaii incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "1219348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219348", "title": "Austrofascism", "text": "Austrofascism\n\nAustrofascism () is a term used to describe the authoritarian system installed in Austria with the May Constitution of 1934, which ceased with the annexation of the newly founded Federal State of Austria into Nazi Germany in 1938. It was based on a ruling party, the Fatherland Front (\"Vaterländische Front\") and the Heimwehr (Home Guard) paramilitary militia. Leaders were Engelbert Dollfuss and, after Dollfuss's assassination, Kurt Schuschnigg, who were previously politicians of the Christian Social Party, which was quickly integrated into the new movement.\n\nAustrofascism, which was Catholic and corporatist and espoused Austrian nationalism, must be contrasted with Austrian National Socialism, which was pan-German and anti-semitic in outlook.\n\nThe Austrofascist movement's origin lies in the Korneuburg Oath, a declaration released by the Christian Social paramilitary organization Heimwehr on 18 May 1930. The declaration condemned both the \"Marxist class struggle\" and the economic structures of \"liberal-capitalism\". Furthermore, it explicitly rejected \"the Western democratic parliamentary system and [multi]-party state\".\n\nThe declaration was directed mainly at the Social Democratic opposition, largely in response to the Linz Program of 1926, and was not only taken by the Heimwehr but also by many Christian Social politicians, setting Austria on a course to an authoritarian system.\n\nIdeologically, Austrofascism was rooted in Austria's political Catholicism. It also somewhat resembled Italian fascism as expounded by Giovanni Gentile.\n\nThe election in Vienna in 1932 made it likely that the coalition of Christian Social Party, the Landbund, and the Heimwehr would lose their majority in the national parliament, depriving the Austrian government of its parliamentary basis. To ensure proper and efficient governance over citizens, the government sought to replace Austrian democracy with an authoritarian system based in Austrian Catholic principles. These efforts were supported from abroad by Benito Mussolini. The ' concept, derived from the notion of ' (\"estates\" or \"corporations\"), and constituted the form favoured form by Dollfuss and later by Kurt Schuschnigg.\n\nThe opportunity for such a transition arrived on 4 March 1933 when the national parliament was paralysed by procedural disputes. Dollfuss held a one-vote majority in parliament. During a dispute over a voting recount, the speaker and vice-speakers of parliament resigned in order to be able to cast their votes, and in the absence of the three speakers, there existed no procedural means to reconvene Parliament. Dollfuss branded this as the \"self-elimination of the Parliament\" and proceeded to rule on the basis of the . This law had been passed in 1917 during World War I to enable the government to issue decrees ensuring the supply of necessities. The law had never been explicitly revoked and was now used by the Austrian government to inaugurate an authoritarian state.\n\nOn 7 March 1933, the Council of Ministers issued a ban on assembly and protests. Press regulations were also levied by the Wartime Economy Authority Law and touted as economic safeguards. The law allowed for the government to require approval of a newspaper which had already been printed up to two hours before its distribution under certain circumstances, for instance if \"through damage to patriotic, religious or moral sensibility, a danger to public peace, order and security\" would arise. This allowed for censorship of the press, but the government was eager to avoid the appearance of open censorship, which was forbidden by the constitution. The opposition made a final attempt to reverse the changes in parliament, which was met by police power on 15 March 1933. As \"Großdeutsche\", who advocated a merger with Germany, and Social Democrats arrived at the Parliament building, the government sent 200 detectives to Parliament to prevent the representatives from taking their places in the assembly hall.\n\nOn 31 March, the government dissolved the Republikanischer Schutzbund. On 10 April 1933, the by former Social Democratic Education Minister Otto Glöckel, which had made Catholic religious lessons in schools non-mandatory, was abolished. On 10 May, all federal, state and local elections were cancelled. The Communist Party of Austria was dissolved on 26 May, the National Socialist Workers' Party (NSDAP) on 19 June, and the on 20 June.\n\nThe Hotel Schiff, an asylum of the Social Democrats in Linz, was raided by the police in February 1934. The Social Democrats resisted, leading to the Austrian Civil War, which was quelled with military and paramilitary force. Afterward, the Social Democratic Party was banned in Austria.\n\nOn 30 April 1934, the national parliament, in its last session, passed a law that enabled the government to assume all the powers previously held by parliament.\n\nOn 1 May, Dollfuss' government proclaimed the May Constitution (\"Maiverfassung\"), which diminished the term \"Republic\" and instead used as the official name of the state \"Federal State of Austria\" (\"Bundesstaat Österreich\"), though the constitution actually reduced the individual states' autonomy. The Federal Council was retained, though only as a significantly limited check on the Federal government. Rather than establishing the composition of a fifty-nine member National Council through direct suffrage, this was accomplished by four \"Councils\" representing the professionals from Austrian Culture, State affairs, the States of Austria (\"Länder\") and Economic affairs (the latter elected by seven corporations supposedly representing workers and employers). The National Council lost its power to initiate legislation but was still expected to approve decrees from the government. All essential power lay with the Federal Chancellor (\"Bundeskanzler\"), who appointed his government single-handedly, and the Federal President (\"Bundespräsident\"), who named the Chancellor.As with Antonio de Salazar's 1933 constitution (and the Estado Novo regime in whole), the \"Maiverfassung\" promoted a Catholic corporatism which bore a strong resemblance to the principles outlined in \"Quadragesimo anno\", rejecting capitalism and socialism.\n\nChancellor Dollfuss was killed in July 1934, during an attempt by Austria's National Socialist Party to topple the regime and proclaim a Nazi government under Ambassador to Rome Anton Rintelen. The assassination of Dollfuss was accompanied by Nazi uprisings in many regions in Austria, resulting in further deaths. In Carinthia, a large contingent of northern German Nazis tried to grab power but were subdued by the loyalist Heimwehr units. The Nazi assassins holding the Federal Chancellery Vienna surrendered after threats to dynamite the building and were executed before the end of July. While Heimwehr leader Starhemberg briefly assumed power as Vice Chancellor, Kurt Schuschnigg was appointed Dollfuss' successor by President Miklas on 29 July, ousting Starhemberg from the government completely in 1936, before surrendering to Nazi pressure in March 1938.\n\nOne of the reasons for the failure of the putsch was Italian intervention: Mussolini assembled an army corps of four divisions on the Austrian border and threatened Hitler with a war with Italy in the event of a German invasion of Austria as originally planned, should the coup have been more successful. Support for the Nazi movement in Austria was surpassed only by that in Germany, allegedly amounting to 75% in some areas.\n\nThe \"Fatherland Front\" (, VF) was the ruling political organisation of \"Austrofascism\". It claimed to be a nonpartisan movement, and aimed to unite all the people of Austria, overcoming political and social divisions. Established on 20 May 1933 by Christian Social Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss as a single party along the lines of Italian Fascism, it advocated Austrian nationalism and independence from Nazi Germany on the basis of protecting Austria's Catholic religious identity from what they considered a Protestant-dominated German state.\n\nAustrofascism's ideology of the \"community of the people\" (\"Volksgemeinschaft\") was different from that of the herrenvolk & lebensraum. They were similar in that both served to attack the idea of a class struggle by accusing leftism of destroying individuality, and thus help usher in a totalitarian state. Dollfuss' corporatist propositions were focused on the benefit of all members of the working class, from farmhands to fashion designers.\n\nAustrofascism focused on the history of Austria. The Catholic Church played a large role in the Austrofascist definition of Austrian history and identity, which served to alienate German culture. According to this ideology, Austrians were \"better Germans\" (at this time, the majority of the German population was still Protestant) and Austria was a second but \"better German state\" which ought to remain independent from Germany. The monarchy was elevated to the ideal of a powerful and far-reaching state, a status which Austria lost after the Treaty of Saint-Germain. \n\nDespite the Catholic emphasis that Dollfuss had created with the Federal State of Austria, he was opposed to forcing Catholicism on to religious minorities, and also let Jews escaping Nazi Germany take refuge in Austria.\n\nAfter the parliament was dissolved, the government also dissolved the Constitutional Court (\"Verfassungsgerichtshof\"). The four Christian Social members of the Constitutional Court had resigned, and the government banned the nomination of new judges, effectively closing the court.\n\nIn September 1933, the government established internment camps for political opposition members. Social Democrats, Socialists, Communists, and Anarchists were all considered dissidents condemned to internment. After the July Putsch of 1934, National Socialists were also regularly interned. On 11 November 1933, the government reinstated the death penalty for the crimes of murder, arson, and \"public violence through malicious damage to others' property\". In February 1934, rioting (\"Aufruhr\") was added to the list of capital offenses.\n\nJohn Gunther wrote in 1940 that the state \"assaulted the rights of citizens in a fantastic manner\", noting that in 1934 the police raided 106,000 homes in Vienna and made 38,141 arrests of Nazis, social democrats, and communists. He added, however:\n\nBy 1933, a series of laws had already been passed to bring the educational system in Austria into line with Austrofascism. The Catholic Church was, under the new government, able to exert significant influence on educational policy, which had previously been secularised. In order to pass the \"Matura\" (the test required for graduation), a student had to have taken religious education classes. Educational opportunities for women were significantly limited under the new regime.\n\nPost-secondary education was also targeted by the new regime. The number of professors and assistants fell as the government produced legal grounds for deposing those who were critical of the new regime. Disciplinary actions, previously the responsibility of individual universities, were relegated to the government. Only members of the Fatherland Front were allowed to become university officials.\n\nBy 1930, foreign trade to and from Austria moved away from a free market system and became an extension of the autocratic government. Chief among the changes was the closing of the Austrian market to foreign trade in response to the New York stock exchange crisis in 1929.\n\nUnemployment grew drastically, between 1932 and 1933 by over 25 percent. In response, the government created the so-called \"Cooperations\" of workers and enterprises.\n\nThe official cultural policy of the Austrofascist government was the affirmation of the Baroque and other \"pre-revolutionary\" styles. The government encouraged a cultural mindset reminiscent of the times before the French Revolution. This recalled images of the \"Threat from the East\" – the invasion of Europe by the Ottoman Turks – which were then projected onto the Soviet Union. In this way, the government warned its people against what it called \"cultural Bolshevism\", a force which it claimed posed a great threat to Austria.\n\nThere was no official policy of antisemitism between 1933 and 1938. Public violence against Jews was rare. As the Austrofascist state saw itself under the growing pressure by Nazi Germany which penalized its citizens who travelled to Austria with a 1000 Mark fee, and even more so after the failed Nazi coup against the Austrian government in July 1934, many Jews supported the regime.\n\nThe history of the austrofascist movement was rooted partially in one of its predecessor parties, the Christian Social Party. One of the more notorious of that party's founders, Karl Lueger was a noted anti-Semite who is often considered to have had a formative influence on Adolf Hitler during his time in Vienna.\n\nStill, austrofascist officials supported the Salzburg Festival which employed famous Jewish artists like Herbert Graf, Alexander Moissi, Max Reinhardt, Richard Tauber, Margarete Wallmann, and Bruno Walter. Walter was also a leading conductor for the Vienna State Opera until 1938 and conducted several concerts given by the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra. Therefore, the festival was harshly criticised by German officials and boycotted by German artists like Richard Strauss, Wilhelm Furtwängler, and Clemens Krauss. The Festival also came under attack by Austrian antisemites and exponents of right-wing parties.\n\nMany Jews fled Germany and found a temporary refuge in Austria. Artists like filmmaker Henry Koster and producer Joe Pasternak could not work in Germany any longer and continued to produce films in Austria. Vienna's Theater in der Josefstadt provided many Jewish actors, playwrights, and directors with the opportunity to continue their work, among them Reinhardt, Albert Bassermann, Egon Friedell, Hans Jaray, Otto Preminger (the theater's managing director until 1935), Ernst Lothar (managing director until 1938), and Franz Werfel. Jewish athletes made the SC Hakoah Wien one of the most successful athletic clubs in Austria before 1938. Its athletes excelled on many occasions throughout Europe.\n\nYet there was a purge of public offices, and many Jews were fired from their posts on the accusations that they were Communist or Social-Democratic sympathizers. There were occasional outbursts of antisemitism in right-wing newspapers. However, Jews continued to be an integral part of Austrian society until March 1938. But some of them lost their hopes for a fruitful future and left Austria before 1938, especially following the \"Juliabkommen\" 1936 between Austria and Germany which provided an amnesty for illegal Nazis. Among the most prominent Jews who left Austria before 1938 were Stefan Zweig and Otto Preminger.\n\nThe regime lasted as long as the favour of Fascist Italy under Mussolini protected it against the expansionist aims of Nazi Germany. However, when Mussolini sought to end Italy's own increasing international isolation by forming an alliance with Hitler in 1938, Austria was left alone to face increasing German pressure.\n\nTo protect Austria's independence, Schuschnigg reached an agreement with Hitler under which 17,000 Austrian Nazis received amnesty and were integrated into the fold of the Fatherland Front. Arthur Seyss-Inquart, the leader of the Austrian Nazis, was appointed Minister of the Interior and Security. As Nazi pressure continued, now supported from within the government, Schuschnigg tried to rally popular support for Austria's independence by a referendum. Hitler reacted by alleging an attempt at a fraudulent vote and demanded that Schuschnigg should hand over the government to the Austrian Nazis or face invasion. Schuschnigg, unable to find support in France or the United Kingdom, resigned to avoid bloodshed. After an interlude, in which Nazis had gained control of Vienna, President Miklas, who had at first refused, appointed Seyss-Inquart Chancellor, who then requested military occupation by the German army. The next day, Hitler entered Austria and declared it a part of the German Reich, which was subsequently formalized on March 15.\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48395703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48395703", "title": "Book of the Consulate of the Sea", "text": "Book of the Consulate of the Sea\n\nThe Book of the Consulate of the Sea or Book of the Consulate of Sea is a compendium of maritime law that governed trade in the Mediterranean for centuries. Of Catalan origin, it was translated into many languages and served as the basis for current international maritime law.\n\nWhen setting the first Consulate of the Sea in Valencia, king Peter III of Aragon decided to apply the maritime customs of Barcelona, called \"costums de mar\", which had not yet been codified, although there did already exist in Barcelona another compilation of maritime rules, called \" Ordinacions de Ribera\", which established norms for policing harbours and coastal waters.\"\n\nThe merit of the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" is that it is the first work to collect the scattered laws and customs of Roman, Greek, Byzantine, Rhodian, Italian, French and Spanish maritime rights\".\"\n\nUntil the publication of the \" Ordonnance de la Marine \" in France in 1681, the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" was the code of maritime law in force throughout the Mediterranean. In Spain it continued in use until the introduction of the Spanish \"Commercial Code.\" \"The Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" effectively replaced the Amalfi Tables, a set of rules written in the Amalfi to regulate maritime trade.\n\nAccording to Chiner and Chacon, the Ordinances of the Ribera (i.e. seaside) (\" Ordianationis Ripairiœ \"), written in 1258, did not yet encode the maritime customs of Barcelona, and that the first reference to \"Sea consuls\" appears in Barcelona in 1282, just one year before the Consulate of the Sea was created in Valencia. Also note that the consuls of Barcelona had no independence assigned later on in the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\". Customs collected in the book would be in part coming from a Barcelona origin, but many would have been created and consolidated in Valencia, from which have been copied to the subsequently created consulates. According to Arcadi Garcia Sanz, the main difference between the consulates of Barcelona and Valencia would be the fact that the latter had from the start a \"royal jurisdiction\", and therefore has influenced so strongly in the other consulates in the fifteenth century.\n\nCustoms Consulate were explicitly based on the \" Usus at consuetudo Maris \" according to the privilege of founding of the December 1 of 1283, which was a juridic set of maritime practices (\" Usus Maris\") based on a written legal text \"(Consuetudo Maris) a\"nd both together would be the jurídicomarítima tradition of the western Mediterranean. is documented that the text was already in Catalonia, as it was in Vic 1231, and was incorporated in Catalan in the 'Custom of Tortosa in 1272. This paper certainly come from outside the Peninsula and have introduced through \"maritime Costums of Ribera\" from Barcelona.\n\nThe \"General Encyclopedia of the Sea\" says there is a controversy on the origin of the book, in which three countries dispute the glory of being the first to have written it: France (Marseille), Spain (Valencia, Barcelona and Tortosa) and Italy (Pisa).\n\nIn the late eighteenth century, Antonio de Capmany y Montpalau concludes, after deeply studying the subject, that the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" was written in Barcelona between 1258 and 1266, accepting the influence from Pisa, and he rejecting the arguments that gave an Italian origin to the book. At the same time, the Sardinian Domenico Azun argues in favor of a Pisan origin, stating that, Pisa as a leading maritime power of the time, should necessarily have their own maritime legislation. French Pardessus, in his study \"Collection de lois maritimes anterieures au XVIII siècle\" disagrees from Azun, considering that the first copy is not the one written in Latin that he had studied, but the one written in Catalan. He assumes that it was handwritten in Barcelona, but between 1340 and 1400, disagreeing on this point with Capmany. Later, Wildscut, considering that the original compilation makes no reference to the Bills of exchange, he concludes that this Catalan document must predate the first half of the 13th century.\n\nThe expansion of the Crown of Aragon and its commercial and maritime supremacy meant that the \" Book of the Consulate of the Sea \" was respected throughout the Mediterranean and up into the Atlantic. Based originally on the maritime customs of Barcelona and supplemented by the Valencia Consulate of the Sea, the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" laid the basis for all subsequent Mediterranean maritime customs.\n\nOriginally written in Catalan, the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" was translated into Italian, French, English, Castilian and other languages, and for centuries was the basis of merchant marine legislation in many countries, even up to modern times.\n\nAn annex of the book contains Barcelona's ordinances of 1435 on marine insurance. The wide circulation of the book helped spread these ordinances throughout Europe.\n\nThe Nueva Planta decrees (1707 - 1716) entirely suppressed the Consulates of the Sea in the Crown of Aragon, except in Mallorca and Barcelona. The latter did not usually act in interference with the Bourbon laws. The rules of the Book of the Consulate of the Sea were active in Spain until 1829, when they were replaced by the Spanish code of commerce, inspired by French law.\n\nSeveral European countries continued to use these ordinances until the eighteenth century. In 1874 Sir Travers Twiss translated them into English for reasons of utility, in the early twentieth century a court in the United States denied an action on the grounds of its not being supported by the \"Consulate of the Sea,\" and in March 1937 the Court of Appeal of Alexandria quoted a chapter of the book in its judgment.\n\nThe first Valencian collection of customs sea was made in Valencia between 1320 and 1330. \n\n<Nowiki> The city of Mallorca surrendered to Pedro of Aragon, and in 1343 he was awarded the Consulate of Mar de Mallorca, governed by the customs of Valencia, \"per modum the form in civitate Valencia usitatos\". According to Arcadi Garcia Sanz, he became an adaptation and not a replica. Huguet Borras drafted the </nowiki>\"Ordre judiciària de la Cort dels cònsols del mar de la ciutat de València\"; (\"judiciary Order of the Court of consuls Sea of the city of Valencia) \" and rewrote the Valencian customs, creating a compilation called \" apítols del Consolat de mar de Mallorques (chapters of the Sea Consulate of Mallorca), \" documented for the first time on 14 February 1345.\n\nIt is considered the masterpiece of medieval maritime law, and one of the icons of valencian jurisprudence.\n\nThe original manuscript is preserved in the Municipal Archives of Valencia. It is a work of great historical value with great international impact through the centuries.\n\nThere are several medieval manuscript copies, although one of the finest examples from the artistic point of view is the codex called \"Consolat del Mar\" with miniatures from Domingo Crespi made in 1407, kept in the Municipal Archives of Valencia.\n\nWith the advent of the printing press, the first known printed edition is the one of 1436 - 1484 from Valencia.\n\nPedro the Ceremonious gave Barcelona its Consulate of the Sea saying he would be in the same form as that of Mallorca, \"sub ea scilicet forma qua concessum est civitati Maioricarum\". Customs adapted from Valencia in Mallorca, and from there in Barcelona.\n\nCapmany says that because of these adaptation the first seven chapters dealt with matters that were only useful for Valencia Sea consuls, and several laws and ordinances from Barcelona were added indiscriminately, adding that the rest of chapters of the ordinations that form the biggest part of the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" was not copied from Mallorca and Valencia, but was compiled thereof from Barcelona customs known as \" free Consulate of the Sea \" and being those Barcelona's customs compiled within the Valencian ordinations by early printers have caused confusion in later authors, who have given a Valencian origin when in fact they have originated in Barcelona.\n\nThe first edition came out of print on 14 August 1502.\n\nPart I consists of 43 chapters that prescribe methods to choose the consuls of the sea and appellate judges in Valencia, the legal responsibilities of each and the procedural regulations of awards of cases brought before them. Articles 44 and 45 were discarded, probably for being illegible, as shipments concerned towards Alexandria\n\nPart II consisted of Articles 46 to 334 of the laws of the year 1343. The first area of Article 46 to 297, deals with generally accepted customs of maritime trade, while the second area, up to 298 items 334, it deals with the pirates, piracy, armed naval expeditions, convoys, marine insurance, bills of exchange and other various materials. The original manuscript of the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris has the following inscription appearing at the end of Article 217: \"El llibre acaba aquí. Gloria a Jesus Cristo. Amen\" (\"The book ends here Gloria Jesus Christ, amen.\")\n\nArticle 43 prescribes the oath of office for the lawyers of Mallorca, decreed by James I of Aragon and promulgated before the year 1275. It is not known when or by whom it was imposed an oath to lawyers of Barcelona and other cities.\n\nOne of the most complete editions of 1914 is due to Moliné y Brasés, which contains not only the old customs prior to the first compilation but included all subsequent contributions. Contains:\n\nThe oldest collection is probably the Babylonian index, from the eighteenth century BC, followed by the \"Phoenician customs\" compiled in 2000 BC, that were copied by the Greeks and later by the Romans. The people of Rhodes directly adapted the Phoenician laws. The Greeks have founded a Greek colony in Empuries and kept a constant sea trade with Greece following therefore the \"Greek costums\".\n\nThe book was inspired distantly from previous compilations, as the Pisan \"Constitutum usus\" (1161) and \"Breve consulum maris\"  (1162) and the Latin text \"Consuetudo maris \" of the first half of the 13th century, which has been documented in Catalonia in 1231.\n\nIn 1010 were codified in Amalfi the \"Tabula Amalphitana \"or \"Tavole Amalfi \"followed by the codification of maritime customs of Trani in 1063, which were then adapted by the city of Fermo.\n\nIn 1243 James I of Aragon has demarcated the Ribera (seaside) of Barcelona and its ordinances were codified in 1258 in the \"Carta consulatus riparie Barchinone\", which had not yet codified the maritime customs of Barcelona itself. Shortly afterwards, Barcelona's municipal boundaries were reorganized and the Ribera (seaside) came under the Consell de Cent, so the Ribera (seaside) lost its autonomy. In the last quarter of the 13th century Barcelona consuls they started naming the great men of the Ribera (seaside), which in 1282 were named \"consols de mar\" (\"consuls of sea\").\n\nMany authors believe that the laws specified in the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" had a big influence on all other compilations of maritime law in Europe, which are partly based on it.\n\nSome of these laws specified in the \"Book of the Consulate of the Sea\" were already adopted in the ninth century in places like the Baltic, the North Sea, the Schleswig sea: Riga, Wisby, Hamburg, Lübeck and other cities of the Hanseatic League, being published since 1407 under the title \" Waterrecht \", also called laws of Wisby.\n\nAccording to some authors the Rules of Oléron were compiled by Edward I of England and expanded and promulgated by Richard I of England on his return from the Holy Land, but others say Eleanor of Aquitaine would have proclaimed them already in 1160. The fact is that the exact origin of these laws is disputed and, given the lack of communication between sailors of the Atlantic and Mediterranean sailors, it is possible the absence of influence between them. However, laws compiled in the Mediterranean eventually surpassed in importance those of the Atlantic and arrived to replace them, as the Mediterranean countries used to have more maritime activity during several centuries.\n\nThe \"Black Book of the Admiralty\" of Britain also dates back to the twelfth century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39688531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39688531", "title": "Bougainville Civil War", "text": "Bougainville Civil War\n\nThe Bougainville Civil War, also known as the Bougainville conflict, was a multi-layered armed conflict fought from 1988 to 1998 in the North Solomons Province of Papua New Guinea (PNG) between PNG and the secessionist forces of the Bougainville Revolutionary Army (BRA), and between the BRA and other armed groups on Bougainville. The conflict was described by John Momis as the largest conflict in Oceania since the end of World War II in 1945, with an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 Bougainvilleans dead.\n\nHostilities concluded under the Bougainville Peace Agreement in 1998. The national (PNG) government agreed to the founding of the Autonomous Bougainville Government and to certain rights and authorities which the autonomous government would have over what became known as Bougainville Province, which includes outlying small islands in addition to Bougainville Island itself.\n\nLode gold was first discovered on Bougainville in 1930. The discovery of vast copper ore deposits in the Crown Prince Range on Bougainville Island during the 1960s led to the establishment of the huge Bougainville Copper Mine by the Australian company Conzinc Rio Tinto. The Panguna mine began production in 1972 under the management of Bougainville Copper Ltd, with the government of Papua New Guinea as a 20% shareholder. At the time, the Panguna mine was the largest open cut mine in the world. It produced more than 45% of Papua New Guinea's national export revenue, and was, as such, vitally important to the economy.\n\nThe mine recruited thousands of workers to the island, mostly Papua New Guineans, whom the Bougainvilleans referred to as \"red-skins\" because of their skin colour. By contrast, most native people of the island identify as black. Many \"white-skins\", mostly Australian nationals, also came to work at the mine. The Bougainvilleans wanted neither the migrants nor immigrants on their land; they especially resented the \"red-skins,\" because of cultural differences between the groups.\n\nConflict began to emerge from the start of mining operations at Panguna. Many of the local landowners were opposed to the mine because it attracted an influx of workers from other parts of PNG. In addition, they were concerned about adverse environmental effects, while seeing most of the mine profits leaving the island. Prior to Papua New Guinea's independence in 1975, Bougainville Island had attempted to secede and become independent. Its representatives reached an agreement with the national government for further decentralization, which satisfied concerns at the time.\n\nBy late 1988 tensions over the mine had led to local violence. The government deployed the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary (RPNGC) Mobile Squads and elements of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force (PNGDF). Although initially restricted to the area around the mine site, the conflict subsequently intensified. Both sides reported abuses against the native population during fighting between government forces and the rebels of the Bougainville Revolutionary Army (BRA) and the conflict developed into a general separatist insurgency. The mine company closed the mine, and many non-Bouganvilleans left the island. Fighting continued for a year, during which widespread human rights violations were alleged to have occurred, including the burning of many villages. However, in early 1990 Papua New Guinea withdrew, leaving Bougainville in the control of the BRA. Despite agreeing to disarm and negotiate, Francis Ona, the leader of the BRA, unilaterally declared independence in May 1990.\n\nThe PNG government subsequently imposed a blockade on Bougainville. It was enforced using UH-1 Iroquois helicopters and Pacific-class patrol boats that had been supplied to PNG as aid by the Australian government in the late-1980s as part of a defence co-operation program underway since independence. Other Australian support, as part of its capacity-building effort, included funding for the PNGDF, provision of arms and ammunition, logistics, training, and some specialist and technical advisors and personnel. Similar assistance was also provided to the police. The helicopters had been provided by Australia without weapons and on the provision that they would not be used for combat; however, the PNGDF subsequently fitted machine-guns in contravention of the agreement and later used them as gunships. The blockade would remain in effect until the ceasefire in 1994 (although it was informally continued for some parts of Bougainville until 1997).\n\nOna subsequently set up the Bougainville Interim Government (BIG), appointing himself president. The former premier of the provincial government, Joseph Kabui, was appointed Vice-President. The military commander of the BRA was Sam Kauona, a former PNGDF officer. Yet the BIG had little power, and the island began to descend into disarray. The command structure set up by the BRA seldom had any real control over the various groups throughout the island that claimed to be part of the BRA. A number of \"raskol\" (criminal) gangs that were affiliated with the BRA, equipped largely with weapons salvaged from the fighting in World War II, terrorized villages, engaging in murder, rape and pillage. Bougainville split into several factions, as the conflict took on ethnic and separatist characteristics.\n\nThe divisions in the conflict were largely drawn along clan lines. There were 70–80 minor tribal conflicts for BIG to deal with in addition to the blockade. As the BIG/BRA was dominated by the Nasioi clan, other islanders were suspicious of its goals, especially in north Bougainville. On the island of Buka, north of Bougainville, a local militia was formed which succeeded in driving out the BRA in September, with the help of Papuan troops. By the end of 1990, the PNGDF national forces controlled Buka, while the BRA controlled the remainder of Bougainville. Early attempts at resolving the conflict resulted in agreements being signed in 1990 and 1991; however, neither side honoured their terms. Meanwhile, the BRA leadership of Ona and Kauona fell out with some of the political leaders, such as Kabui. Several other pro-government village militias, which together became known as the resistance and were armed by the PNGDF, forced the BRA out of their areas. During 1991–92, the PNGDF gradually returned to Bougainville, taking control of the north and southwest of the main island.\n\nPapua New Guinea's policy towards Bougainville hardened after the defeat of the incumbent government at the 1992 elections. New Prime Minister Paias Wingti took a considerably more hardline stance. In 1992–93, the PNGDF launched a number of unauthorised cross-border raids into the Solomon Islands in pursuit of supporters of the BRA. Relations with the Solomon Islands deteriorated, and on one occasion PNG forces clashed with Solomon Island police, exchanging fire. On another the PNGDF troops landed on the island of Oema. The PNGDF, in alliance with the resistance, reoccupied Arawa, the provincial capital, in February 1993. Papuan Foreign Minister Sir Julius Chan attempted to gather a peacekeeping force from the nations of the Pacific, but Wingti quashed the idea. He subsequently ordered the army to retake the Panguna mine, and was initially successful. However, his government was short-lived, and in August 1994 was replaced as Prime Minister by Julius Chan. The assault on Panguna subsequently failed. The PNGDF increasingly sustained losses at the hands of the insurgents in the interior of the island, where the jungle limited the visibility and effectiveness of its patrols.\n\nChan announced his intention to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, arranging a ceasefire at a meeting with Kauona in the Solomon Islands in September. They agreed to hold a peace conference in Arawa that October, with security provided by an Australian-led South Pacific Peacekeeping Force. However, the BIG leaders boycotted the conference, claiming that their safety could not be guaranteed. In the absence of Ona, Kabui and Kauona emerged as more moderate BRA leaders. Chan's government subsequently entered into negotiations with a group of chiefs from the Nasioi clan, headed by Theodore Miriung, a former lawyer for the Panguna Landowners Association. This resulted in the establishment of a Bougainville Transitional Government in April 1995, with its capital in Buka. Miriung was named as the Premier of a compromise government but ultimately was \"unable to bridge the gap between hardliners on both sides\".\n\nMeanwhile, Chan was beginning to get frustrated at the lack of progress. Following a round of negotiations in Cairns, Australia, in September and December 1995, between the BRA, BTG and the PNG government, in January 1996 the BRA/BIG representatives, including Kabui, were fired on by PNGDF forces after returning to Bougainville. Later, the home of the BIG's representative in the Solomon Islands, Martin Mirori, was firebombed. The BRA subsequently undertook retaliatory action in northern Bougainville and on Buka. Chan decided to abandon attempts at peace, and on 21 March 1996, approved the lifting of the ceasefire on Bougainville. In an address to the nation, he subsequently resolved to achieve a military solution.\n\nWith the government of Australia declining to provide direct military support and advocating a political solution to the conflict, Chan began to look elsewhere. The Sandline affair began in March 1996, when the government of Papua New Guinea attempted to hire mercenaries from Sandline International, a London-based private military company, that in turn employed the South African military contractor Executive Outcomes. As negotiations with Sandline continued, in July the PNGDF launched a new offensive on Bougainville. However, the attack failed, suffering from poor logistical planning, a lack of intelligence on BRA locations and mounting casualties.\n\nIn September, BRA militants attacked a PNG army camp at Kangu Beach with the help of members of a local militia group, killing twelve PNGDF soldiers and taking five hostage. The incident was the largest single loss in an operation for the PNGDF during the conflict. The following month, Theodore Miriung was assassinated. A subsequent independent investigation implicated members of the PNGDF and the resistance militias. Discipline and morale was rapidly deteriorating within the ranks of the PNG military, and they were withdrawn in August after the offensive ended in a stalemate. By this time the PNGDF, with assistance of the Bougainville Resistance Forces, was in \"reasonable\" control of approximately 40 percent of the island, yet they remained vulnerable to guerilla attacks with the BRA establishing an ascendency over government forces.\n\nChan decided that his best chance to recapture the Panguna mine was with the Sandline mercenaries, and a contract was signed in January 1997. However, news of his intention to hire mercenaries was leaked to the Australian press, and international condemnation followed. Although initially supportive, the commander of the PNGDF, Jerry Singirok, then opposed the plan, and ordered all the mercenaries to be detained on arrival. In the resulting saga Papua New Guinea came close to a military coup, with the parliament surrounded by demonstrators and many military personnel. The Australian government placed pressure on PNG to terminate the contract with Sandline, and intercepted the heavy equipment that was being flown-in for the mercenaries. Chan resigned and the mercenaries were removed from Papua New Guinean territory.\n\nMeanwhile, the conflict continued until 1997. There were approximately 800 PNGDF and 150 \"riot squad\" personnel deployed on the island by this time, while the BRF probably numbered around 1,500 men. These men were armed by the PNGDF and operated mostly in a \"home guard\" role, with only a small number involved in patrolling with the PNGDF or in directly involved in the fighting. BRA strength was estimated at around 2,000 men armed with around 500 modern weapons (mostly captured or bought from PNGDF or \"riot squad\" personnel) and several thousand World War II vintage or homemade weapons.\n\nThe impetus for peace was the election of Prime Minister Bill Skate, who had previously opposed a military solution. In mid-1997, talks were held in Honiara and Burnham in New Zealand resulting in a truce, as well as agreement to de-militarize the island. An unarmed Truce Monitoring Group (TMG) led by New Zealand and supported by Australia, Fiji and Vanuatu was subsequently deployed. Since then a ceasefire has largely held on the island. Breaking with Ona, Kauona and Kabui entered into peace talks with the Skate government in Christchurch, New Zealand, which culminated in the signing of the Lincoln Agreement in January 1998. Under the terms of the agreement, PNG began to withdraw its soldiers from the island, and steps were taken to disarm the BRA and BRF, while a multinational Peace Monitoring Group (PMG) under Australian leadership was deployed, replacing the TMG. Legislation to establish a Bougainville Reconciliation Government failed to win approval in the PNG Parliament in December 1998.\n\nA Bougainville provincial government of the same status as the other eighteen provinces of Papua New Guinea, with John Momis as Governor, was established in January 1999. However, this government was suspended after facing opposition from both the BIA/BRA and BTG. Arrangements were made for the creation of a modified government, to be established in two phases: the first being the Bougainville Constituent Assembly and the second being the elections for the Bougainville People's Congress. Elections were held in May, and Kabui was named president. However, the legality of this was contested by Momis, with the support of a number of tribal chiefs and Resistance leaders. In November, a new body, the Bougainville Interim Provincial Government, was established, headed by Momis. Rapprochment between Kauona and Momis led to an agreement through which the two bodies would act in consultation. An organised reconciliation process began at the tribal level in the early 2000s.\n\nA peace agreement was reached in 2001, leading to a roadmap to the creation of an Autonomous Bougainville Government (ABG). Yet Ona refused to play any part in the peace process, and, with a small minority of fighters, broke away from the BRA. Throughout the decade, he continued to resist overtures to participate in the new government, occupying an area around the mine which remained a no-go zone and declaring himself 'king' of Bougainville before dying of malaria in 2005. Elections for the first ABG were held in May and June 2005 with Joseph Kabui elected president.\n\nIn March 2006, Dr Shaista Shameem of the United Nations working group on mercenaries asked Fiji and Papua New Guinea for permission to send a team to investigate allegations about the presence of former Fijian soldiers in Bougainville. In 2011 it was reported that former PNG Prime Minister Sir Michael Somare had alleged that Rio Tinto played a role in the civil war by helping finance the actions of the PNG government in Bougainville during the conflict in an attempt to allow the mine to be reopened. The Bougainville government was given control of mining on the island following the passage of the \"Bougainville Mining Act\" in March 2015; however, the Panguna mine remains closed. As part of the current peace settlement, a referendum on independence will be held sometime between 2015 and 2020.\n\nThe war has been described by John Momis, President of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville, as the largest conflict in Oceania since the end of World War II. PNGDF casualties during the fighting were believed to include more than 300 killed. Meanwhile, the Australian government estimated that anywhere between 15,000–20,000 people could have died in the Bougainville conflict. However, more conservative estimates put the number of combat deaths as 1,000–2,000. Other sources estimated that around 10,000 Bougainvilleans died of violence or disease during this period, while over 60,000 Bougainvilleans were living in internally displaced persons' camps by the mid-1990s and thousands more had fled to the nearby Solomon Islands.\n\nA condition of the peace agreement was that a referendum on Bougainville's political status would be held within twenty years. In January 2016 the Autonomous Bougainville Government and Government of Papua New Guinea agreed to establish the Bougainville Referendum Commission. The Commission is responsible for making preparations for a vote on Bougainville's future political status, with a draft date of 15 June 2019 set for the referendum.\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "25816472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25816472", "title": "Dan T. Carter", "text": "Dan T. Carter\n\nDan T. Carter is an American historian.\n\nHe graduated from University of South Carolina, University of Wisconsin, and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, with a Ph.D. in 1967.\nHe taught at the University of Maryland, and the University of Wisconsin.\nHe was Kenan University Professor at Emory University, and Educational Foundation Professor at University of South Carolina, retiring in 2007.\nIn 2009, he was the Dow Research Professor at the Roosevelt Center in Middelburg the Netherlands. He was president of the Southern Historical Association.\n\nIn his 1991 New York Times article, 'The Transformation of a Klansman', regarding the true identity of author Asa Earl Carter (who wrote as Forrest Carter), Carter suggested that their shared Southern heritage might make the two men distant cousins; this suggestion has subsequently been put forward as fact in later publications.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "502499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=502499", "title": "David Rumsey Historical Map Collection", "text": "David Rumsey Historical Map Collection\n\nThe David Rumsey Historical Map Collection is one of the world's largest private map collections. It has over 150,000 maps and cartographic items. The collection was created by David Rumsey who, after making his fortune in real estate, focused initially on collecting 18th- and 19th century maps of North and South America, as this era \"saw the rise of modern cartography.\"\n\nMore recently, Rumsey has expanded the collection to include maps from the 16th though 21st centuries, and covering the entire world. \n\nThere are now over 82,000 digitized maps available through his website, http://www.davidrumsey.com, about 1000 of which are currently being hosted through Google Earth layers. Select maps are also featured at the Rumsey Maps island in Second Life. as well as 2D and 3D GIS. A new MapRank search tool has been added enabling geographical searching of about 60,000 maps from the collection by map location and coverage. In addition, a Georeferencer tool has been added that allows site users to georeferenced and display any of the maps in the collection. The website has additional viewers from Luna Imaging, Inc, most popular being the LUNA browser which doesn’t require any special plug-ins or software to view the collection, zoom into image detail, create slide shows, media groups, presentations and more.\n\nThe website also has a blog listing new additions to the collection, featured maps, news, videos, and related sites. \n\nIn February 2009, David Rumsey announced that the entire collection would be donated to Stanford University, including 150,000 maps and their digital images, as well as the database used to track the images. Stanford houses the collection in the new David Rumsey Map Center which opened in the main library in 2016. The davidrumsey.com web site (where the images are posted on-line) will continue as a separate public resource.\n\n"}
{"id": "6413510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6413510", "title": "Disenfranchised grief", "text": "Disenfranchised grief\n\nDisenfranchised grief is a term describing grief that is not acknowledged by society. Examples of events leading to disenfranchised grief are the death of a friend, the loss of a pet, a trauma in the family a generation prior, the loss of a home or place of residence particularly in the case of children, who generally have little or no control in such situations, and whose grief may not be noticed or understood by caregivers; American military children and teens in particular move a great deal while growing up), an aborted/miscarried pregnancy, a mother's loss or surrender of a child to adoption, a child's loss of their birth mother to adoption, the death of a loved one due to a socially unacceptable cause such as suicide, or even the death of a celebrity.\n\nCertain events that are often circumscribed by social stigma can also cause disenfranchised grief, such as the breakup or loss of a secret relationship (e.g. an extramarital affair), botched cosmetic surgery procedures, the diagnosis of a sexually transmitted infection, loss of a job, as well as other events. Traditional forms of grief are more widely recognized even in nontraditional living situations. However, there are few support systems, rituals, traditions, or institutions such as bereavement leave available to those experiencing disenfrachised grief.\n\nEven widely recognized forms of grief can become disenfranchised when well-meaning friends and family attempt to set a time limit on a bereaved person's right to grieve. For example, the need to regulate mourning and restore a state of normal work activity severely impacted the grieving process of victims of the Oklahoma City bombing, according to American scholar Edward Linenthal. Grieving for lost children was redefined as post-traumatic stress disorder if parents were not \"over it\" within two weeks.\n\nLoss is one of the most common experiences that brings about grieving, and although this is often viewed as normal, there are times when it is disqualified. Some examples of when grieving over a loss is disenfranchised include: the loss of a grandchild, of an ex-spouse, of a sibling, or of a child through adoption.\n\nLoss of a grandchild can be extremely difficult for a grandparent, but the grandparent’s grief is often disenfranchised because they are not part of the immediate family. Attention and support is given to the child’s parents and siblings, but the grandparent’s grief is two-fold as they have not only grieving the loss of their grandchild, but are also grieving for their adult children who have lost the child. This phenomenon is termed “double-grief” by Davidson and she explains that this makes bereavement even more difficult.\n\nLoss of an ex-spouse is disenfranchised due to the lack of a current or ongoing personal relationship between the former couple. Although the marriage has ended, the relationship has not, and there are ties between the two people that will forever be there including: shared children, mutual friendships, and financial connections. Research has shown that those couples who never resolved conflicts after the relationship ended experienced much more grief than those who had. The grievers experience guilt and thoughts of “what might have been”, similar to those of widows.\n\nLoss of a child by adoption is often disenfranchised because the decision to give a child up for adoption is voluntary, and therefore it is not acceptable by society to grieve. Birth mothers lack support, and are expected to just move on and pretend the child doesn't exist. Many birth mothers experience regret and have thoughts of what might have been or of reuniting with the child.\n\nMany types of relationships are not legitimized by society, therefore when one person in the relationship dies, the other may not have their grief legitimized so it can become disenfranchised. For example, following the death of a partner in a homosexual relationship societal supports can tend prioritize the immediate family, invalidating the significance of the romantic relationship and loss for the grieving partner (McNutt & Yakushko, 2013)..\nAnother example may be a former partner, such as the death of an ex-spouse (a person who the griever was previously married to, but eventually divorced). The death of an ex-spouse does not typically receive the same recognition as the death of a current spouse. Another type of relationship is one in which the griever and the person who died did not necessarily have a close personal relationship. This relationship may include coworkers, doctor and nurse relationships with patients, or even people that the griever does not know personally at all, such as celebrities. Relationships formed online are often not recognized or validated by society, for example where friendships are made through online games and social media. However, when one person dies, the griever or person that did not die in the relationship will often experience disenfranchised grief (Doka, 1989).\n\nThere are many models for dealing with grief. The Kubler-Ross model describes grieving in five steps or stages: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance (Kubler-Ross, 1969). In other words, in order to begin grieving one must first endorse the loss, and then express emotion. The griever must then accept the loss and adjust to the change the death or loss caused in his or her life (Cordaro, 2012). Over the years, however, how grief is conceptualised has moved away from predictable stages that lead to 'recovery' or 'closure', towards an understanding of grief that addresses the complexity and diversity of the grieving experience (Australian Psychological Society, 2016). Models such as Worden's tasks of grief (2008) and the Dual-Process model (Stroebe and Schutt,1999) offer frameworks for dealing with grief in a way that enhances the self awareness of the grieving person (Australian Psychological Society, 2016).\n\nDisenfranchised grief presents some complications that are not always present in other grieving processes. Firstly, there are usually intensified reactions to death or loss. For example, the griever may become more depressed or angry due to not being able to fully express his or her grief. Secondly, disenfranchised grief means society does not recognize the death or loss; therefore, the griever does not receive strong social support and may be isolated. As disenfranchised grief is not legitimized by others, the bereaved person may be denied access to rituals, ceremonies, or the right to express their thoughts and emotions (McKissock & McKissock, 1998). When supporting someone through disenfranchised grief it is important to acknowledge and validate their loss and grief (McKissock & McKissock, 1998).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35259505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35259505", "title": "Driving into Walls", "text": "Driving into Walls\n\nDriving into Walls (2012) is a play written by Suzie Miller and produced by Barking Gecko Theatre Company.\n\nMiller and director John Sheedy interviewed over 500 Western Australian teens for the play, asking about their day-to-day lives and drawing from that many of the stories of the play.\n\nThe plot of the story focuses on five teenagers and their online and offline relationships. The story does not follow a linear narrative and is more a collection of short stories with a shared message than one complete story.\n\nUnder the direction of John Sheedy, the show was first performed as part of the 2012 Perth International Arts Festival. It was later performed in the State Theatre Centre of Western Australia in the Underground studio.\n\n"}
{"id": "53918629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53918629", "title": "Evolutionary models of human drug use", "text": "Evolutionary models of human drug use\n\nThe use of psychoactive substances is one of the most perplexing human behaviors. Psychoactive drugs can relieve the symptoms of mental disorders (e.g. lithium) or cause harm to individuals and societies (e.g. heroin). Psychoactive drugs can induce pleasure, increase energy (e.g. chocolate, coffee), relieve pain (Aspirin), or can impose a large social burden in the form of chronic illness (e.g. tobacco) and be a cause of mortality.\n\nWhy do humans seek out and at times even develop addictions to drugs that harm them? A number of attempts have been made to understand drug use and addiction from an evolutionary perspective. Evolutionary models of drug use are unique in that they emphasize the effect drugs had on fitness over human evolution.\n\nThe dominant paradigm of drug abuse focuses on human neurobiology and suggests that drug use is the result of reward-related behavior and that drug addiction is a consequence of drug interference with natural reward systems. Specifically, this tradition postulates that the chemical compounds humans seek out increase brain dopamine levels and thereby effectively usurp the mesolimbic pathway, a system originally intended to motivate/reward fitness enhancing behaviors such as those that increase access to food and sex.\n\nIdeas concerning the neural bases of motivation and reinforcement in behavior can be traced back to the 1950s. In 1953, Olds and Milner published findings implicating a brain region, specifically a cluster of dopamine neurons, with reward-based learning. Drugs of abuse were later discovered to increase dopamine in the region of the brain associated with reward-based-learning (see: brain stimulation reward).\n\nResearch on the molecular pathways of addiction suggests that drugs of abuse, despite their diverse chemical substrates, converge on a common circuitry in the brain’s limbic system. Specifically, drugs are thought to activate the mesolimbic dopamine pathway, facilitating dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens, via disinhibition, excitation, uptake blockade, etc. to produce a dopamine-like, yet dopamine independent effect.\n\nThe hijack model of drug abuse explains that drugs that elicit positive emotion mediate incentive motivation in the nucleus accumbens of the brain. Put another way, drugs of abuse act on ancient and evolutionarily conserved neural mechanisms associated with positive emotions that evolved to mediate incentive behavior. Psychoactive drugs induce emotions that in human evolutionary history signaled increases in fitness. Positive emotions such as euphoria and excitation are tools chosen by natural selection to help direct the behavior and physiology of an individual towards an increase in Darwinian fitness. For example, in the environment of evolutionary adaptation, humans would feel positive euphoric emotions in response to a successful foraging session or in the event of a successful breeding. Many psychoactive substances provide this same feeling and yet do not produce fitness benefits.\n\nResearchers have shown how emotional disposition is correlated with problematic use of alcohol, wherein if the reason for alcohol consumption is positive, the user is thought to drink to enhance positive feelings with greater control of the substance than if the user’s emotional disposition prior to alcoholic consumption was negative. In these cases, the individual is drinking to cope and is shown to have less control over his/her own use. Alcohol mediates negative feelings by their suppression but also encourages the habituated continuance of positive emotion. Recovering alcoholics often report that the reason for relapse is often related to the impulse to compensate for negative feelings, resulting in a motivation to cope and therefore drink.\n\nDespite being harmful, drugs such as nicotine, cocaine, alcohol, THC, and opium artificially stimulate the emotions and neural circuits involved in the mesolimbic reward system thus encouraging drug consumption. Drugs of abuse are harmful, why do they increase dopamine like sugar and sex do? The hijack hypothesis suggests that drugs are effective hijackers of neural reward circuitry (e.g. the mesolimbic dopamine system) because they are evolutionarily novel. Specifically proposing that modern-day drug concentrations, methods of delivery, and the existence of certain drugs themselves were not available until recently on an evolutionary time scale, and thus human biology has been slow to adapt and is presently mismatched and susceptible.\n\nTo explain how drugs increase dopamine and cause positive emotions while at the same time lowering reproductive fitness, researchers posited that evolutionarily novel drugs hijack the brain’s mesolimbic dopamine system and generate a false positive signal of a fitness benefit as well as inhibiting negative effects, to signal a lack of negative fitness consequences. Modern drug addiction fundamentally indicates a false increase of fitness, leading to increasing drug abuse to continue gain, even if the gain is realized as being false. That these drugs create a signal in the brain that indicates, falsely, the arrival of a huge fitness benefit which changes behavioral propensities so that drug seeking increases in frequency and displaces adaptive behaviors. Proponents of the hijack hypothesis suggest that the paradox of drug reward is due to this evolutionary mismatch, that extant access to psychoactive drug concentrations and products are unmatched by those that existed in the past.\n\nWhy do humans seek out and consume drugs that harm them? The paradox of drug reward refers to the puzzling ability of drugs to induce both aversive and rewarding effects. Despite contention on the particulars of dopamine induced reward and behavior, there is agreement that dopamine plays an instrumental role in the processing of reward-related stimuli and that drug induced dopamine stimulation explains at least some part of drug abuse phenomena. And still, almost all major recreational drugs are plant secondary metabolites or a close chemical analog. The secondary plant compounds from which psychoactive drugs are derived are a form of interspecies defense chemicals that evolved to deter and/or mitigate consumption of the plant soma by herbivores/insects. The compounds from which psychoactive drugs are derived evolved to punish herbivore consumption, not reward it.\n\nAnimals evolved to exploit plant tissues and energy stores and in response plants developed a number of defenses, including neurotoxins. The presence and concentration of these toxins vary by plant tissue, with leaves and organs central to reproduction and energy conservation displaying high toxin concentrations (e.g. pistils/stamens and storage organs) and absent in tissue central to seed dispersion (e.g. fruit). The power and effectiveness of plant neurotoxic substances has been shaped by ~400 million years of evolution. Plant derived neurotoxins are not evolutionarily novel and human neurophysiology recognizes plant toxins and activates specialized xenobiotic defenses that involve genes, tissue barriers, neural circuits, organ systems and behaviors to protect against them.\n\nDrug toxicity and aversion exist in humans and are at odds with the theory of drug reward. Chronic drug use is harmful in humans and the human brain has evolved defenses to prevent, not reinforce, drug abuse. In response to the evolution of plant chemical defenses, herbivores have co-evolved a number of countermeasures, including (1) compounds that prevent or attenuate induction of plant chemical defenses; (2) detoxification mechanisms, including enzymes and symbiotic relationships with microbes to detoxify or extract nutrients from plant defenses, and cellular membrane carrier proteins for toxin transport; and (3) chemosensors and aversive learning mechanisms that permit selective feeding on less toxic tissues.\n\nHuman and plant neurotoxin coevolution is evidenced by features of the xenobiotic defense network. Tobacco activates defense mechanisms which researchers suggests it is recognized as toxic not a reward. Nicotine activates bitter taste receptors in the mouth and gut. Ingesting 4–8 mg of nicotine causes burning of the mouth and throat, nausea, aversion, vomiting and diarrhea. In higher doses the effects are more robust and can result in weakness, confusion, dizziness, convulsions, and coma. If consumed in high enough amounts, acute nicotine toxicity can trigger failure of the respiratory system and induce death in human adults within minutes. First-time users of tobacco especially report a variety of unpleasant effects upon administration of nicotine, including nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal distress, headache, and sweating. This, when taken with the fact that nicotine is a plant toxin that evolved to deter herbivores, suggests instead that the human body naturally recognizes tobacco as a toxic substance, and not a reward.\n\nIn addition, research has found genetic evidence that humans have had a long evolutionary history to plant neurotoxins. Sullivan et al. (2008) has noted that humans, like other mammals, have ‘inherited’ the cytochrome P450 system, which functions to detoxify chemicals found in the environment, including plant neurotoxins. The ubiquity of CYP genes in humans worldwide, including CYP2A6 and CYP2B6, which metabolize nicotine, as well as other drugs, might suggest an evolutionary history with humans and plant neurotoxins. The mammalian body has also evolved to develop defenses against overtoxicity, such as exogenous substance metabolism and vomiting reflexes.\n\nThe neurotoxin regulation model of human drug use proposes that during the course of human evolution, plant consumption played a key role. The hypothesis suggests that the compulsory consumption of both the nutrients and neurotoxins in plants selected for a system capable of maximizing the benefits of plant energy extraction while mitigating the cost of plant toxicity. To do this, humans evolved a defense system in which plant consumption is mediated by cues of toxicity in a manner sensitive to the individual’s toxicity threshold, maintaining blood toxin concentrations below a critical level.\n\nResearch on herbivores supports the notion of a regulation pathway. Plant toxin concentration informs mammalian herbivore food choices, with herbivores moderating toxicity by capping daily plant intake to accommodate blood toxin concentrations. This mechanism exists across herbivore species and remains static in response to a range of plant toxins, even those that are evolutionarily novel. Similarly, in laboratory conditions, mice have been shown to moderate administration of drugs regardless of dose per injection or the number of lever presses required.\n\nEvidence of toxin regulation exists across drug types and is present in the case of nicotine. In humans, self-administration of nicotine is moderated such that steady blood concentrations of the toxin are maintained. Moreover, though nicotine is a potent neurotoxin, lethal overdoses are rare and smoking behavior is couched around titration, with number of cigarettes smoked directly tied to changes in nicotine blood concentration. In addition, although typical doses of recreational drugs are often only marginally below the lethal dose, overdose remains rare. For the most part, drug consumption is metered. Thus, proponents of the neurotoxin regulation model of drug use suggest it is highly unlikely that toxin consumption is controlled by the system that motivates and rewards the consumption of macronutrients. Arguing that If drugs and sugar (and other energetically dense foods) stimulate dopamine in the mesolimbic reward system with the same degree of efficiency, then, the drug overdose rates should be comparable in scale to the incidence of obesity.\n\nThe neurotoxin regulation hypothesis proposes that drug use is not novel because human brains and plant neurotoxins coevolved. Genetic evidence suggests that humans have had regular exposure to plant drugs throughout our evolutionary history. Archeological evidence indicates the presence of psychoactive plants and drug use in early hominid species about 200 million years ago. Paleogenetic evidence suggests that the first time human ancestors were exposed and adapted to substantial amount of dietary ethanol, was approximately 10 million years ago. Neurobiological evidence appears to corroborate this story. The fit of allelochemicals within the CNS indicates some coevolutionary activity between mammalian brains and psychoactive plants, meaning they interacted ecologically and therefore responded to one another evolutionarily. This would have only been possible with mammalian CNS exposure to these allelochemicals, therefore to ancient mammalian psychotropic substance use. For example, the mammalian brain has evolved receptor systems for plant substances, such as the opioid receptor system, not available to the mammalian body itself.\n\nThe neurotoxin regulation model of drug use is a response to proponents of the hijack hypothesis. Largely this is because the neurobiological reward model of drug use sees interactions between plant neurotoxins and human reward systems as novel and rewarding.\n\nThe neurotoxin regulation hypothesis emphasizes the evolutionary biology of plant-human coevolution and maintains that secondary plant metabolites, including alkaloids like nicotine, morphine, and cocaine, are potent neurotoxins that evolved to deter and punish herbivore consumption of the plant soma not encourage/reward it. Researchers highlight that it is evolutionarily disadvantageous for plants to produce toxins that plant predators (e.g. humans) are attracted to, and that it runs contrary to evolutionary logic that plant predators (e.g. humans) would evolve neurobiological systems unprotected from plant toxin consumption.\n\nProponents of the hijack hypothesis outline a path to addiction that involves drugs co-opting neural reward systems intended for food. However, research on murine models has shown that when the concentration is sufficiently high, sugar operates as a more robust reward than even cocaine. In laboratory conditions, where rats are presented with both a sugar and cocaine sipper, they choose sugar. Researchers use these findings to suggest that sugar reward might generate a stronger dopamine stimulation than cocaine and also may make use of neural mechanisms beyond dopamine stimulation.\n\nAlternative mechanisms explain continued tobacco use: The majority of first time users of cigarettes report adverse reactions, including nausea, dizziness, sickness, and headache. A study by DiFranza et al. (2004) found that 69% of subjects rated inhaling their first cigarette as bad, and nearly three-quarters (72%) reported that their first cigarette made them not want to smoke again. Given the above, opponents of the reward model of drug use suggest it is likely that a mechanism other than a false perception of an increased fitness benefit via hijacking of the brain’s mesolimbic dopamine system, is leading to continued tobacco use.\n\nThroughout the course of human evolution, the importance of psychoactive plant substances for health has been enormous. Since our earliest ancestors chewed on certain herbs to relieve pain, or wrapped leaves around wounds to improve healing, natural products have often been the only ways of treating disease and injury. Plants provide fitness benefits. Upwards of 25% of all pharmaceutical drugs are from plant-derived sources. The US National Cancer Institute has identified over 3,000 plants that are effective against cancer cells. Almost all major recreational drugs are secondary plant compounds or a close chemical analog. It is well established that in both present and past contexts plants have been used for medicinal purposes.\n\nA core premise of evolutionary theory is that a trait cannot evolve unless it contributes to an individual’s reproductive fitness. Proponents of the pharmacophagy hypothesis/medicinal model of drug use suggest that pharmacophagy, the consumption of pharmacological substances for medicinal purposes, evolved in the backdrop of human-plant coevolution as a means of self-medication. Theorists propose that the reason humans learned to ignore the cues of plant toxicity (e.g. bitter taste) and consumed potentially lethal substances with little to no energetic content because ingesting the bioactive compounds of plants in small amounts was therapeutic.\n\nThough the long-term health costs of drug use are undeniable, proponents of the medicinal model of drug use suggest it is possible that regulated consumption of plant neurotoxins was selected for. In this regard, researchers have argued that the human brain evolved to control and regulate intake of psychoactive plant toxins in order to promote reproductive fitness. Broadly, theorists suggest that plant toxins were deliberately ingested by human ancestors to combat macroparasites (e.g. parasitic worms) and/or to ward off disease carrying vectors (e.g. mosquitos).\n\nFor example, researchers have recently sought to understand why humans began using tobacco in spite of the consequences and adverse reactions commonly associated with its use. Hagen and colleagues propose that, as in other species, humans began using tobacco and other plant toxins as a way of controlling infection by parasitic diseases, including helminths. Tobacco, as well as arecoline and cannabis, two other plant neurotoxins that are widely used as recreational drugs in humans, have been found to be toxic to parasitic worms that affect humans and other mammals, as well as plants. Modern anthelminthics function as well by targeting nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) on somatic muscle cells of parasites, producing paralysis and expelling the parasite, the same receptors which are targeted by nicotine (Roulette et al., 2014). Moreover, it has also been found that nicotine is equally or more effective than commercial anthelmintics at killing leeches, including those that infect humans. Similarly, Roulette et al. (2014) found in a study comparing male smoking prevalence and parasite load among Aka hunter-gatherers that treatment with commercial anthelmintics was associated with a decrease in cotinine concentrations (a measure of current tobacco use), thereby supporting their theory that humans regulate the amount of tobacco used in response to current helminth infection. The study also found that men with higher initial tobacco use also had lower worm burdens one year later, suggesting that nicotine not only eliminates parasites, but also protects from reinfection.\n\nSome evolutionary psychological theories concerning drug use suggest individuals consume drugs to increase reproductive opportunities. Drug use can increase reproductive fitness because drug use can (1) advertise biological quality, sexual maturity, or availability, (2) decrease inhibitions in mating contexts, and/or (3) enhance associative learning behaviors that in turn increase mating opportunities. See Richardson et al., 2017 for a review.\n\nResearchers suggest that because variation in drug use susceptibility is in part due to genetic factors, drug consumption could potentially be a costly and honest signal of biological quality. The hypothesis being that humans engage in substance use despite health costs in part to evidence that they can afford to do so. To test the effects substance use had on indicators of mating success researchers tested the effect an individual’s fluctuating asymmetry had on the propensity/likelihood to use drugs and found no significant results.\n\nHagen et al. (2013) suggest that individuals use drug substances to signal maturity. They point out that sexually selected cues of quality often emerge in adolescence (e.g. the peacock’s tail) and reliably signal developmental maturity. The teratogenic effects of drugs of abuse are well documented, as is the fact that psychoactive substances are most harmful for individuals who are developmentally immature. Although this hypothesis remains untested, evidence in support comes from age at onset of drug use. Unequivocally, tobacco consumption does not occur prior to age 11 and in most all cases, this aligns with age at onset of drug use, as cigarette addicts report having first smoked in adolescence. Hagen et al. suggest the reason drug use most often occurs in adolescent populations is due to the developmental maturity of the adolescent nervous system as well as the increases competition to compete for mates. Consistent with these notions, researchers have found that adolescents with alcohol use disorders were more sexually active, had more sexual partners, and initiated sexual activity at slightly albeit younger ages.\n\nAnother possible explanation to the prevalence of substance use is that it contributes to mating success by altering brain functions that lower inhibitions. Generally, people seem to believe substance use will enhance their social behaviors in ways conducive to mating success. Research has shown that many drug types inhibit prefrontal cortex neural activity, the area of the brain responsible conducting long term gains and short term costs. Alcohol myopia theory suggest alcohol lowers inhibitions and amplifies the pre-drinking intention to have sex. Research has also shown that alcohol stimulates dopamine activity in the mesolimbic-dopamine system, which amplifies the salience of natural rewards (e.g. finding food and mates) in the present environment and boost associative learning.\n\nDrug use is not evenly distributed in the population. Research has shown that the prevalence of substance use problems varies in fairly reliable ways according to age, sex, and sociodemographic characteristics. Overall, and across drug categories—including alcohol, coffee, cannabis, and nicotine—men make up the primary drug demographic. Research has also shown that the prevalence of substance use disorders is highest among young adults (ages 18–29), and among individuals of low socioeconomic status.\n\nApplication of evolutionary theory to patterns of drug use suggest patterns can be explained in terms of the fundamental trade-offs that occur during different developmental periods as well as gender differences arising from reproductive asymmetry. According to life history theory, individuals have finite energetic resources and thus face energetic allocation decisions concerning investment in maintenance, growth, and reproduction. How resources are allocated to these different tasks in order to most effectively maximize reproductive fitness will depend on the age and sex of the individual and the environmental context the individual exists in.\n\nLife history predicts that men, especially if they are young, are most likely to engage in drug use because they are most likely to engage in risky behavior and discount the future. Young men have the most to gain from risk-taking behavior because competition for mates, status, and resources is greatest during late adolescence and young adulthood. As men age, they are more likely to develop long-term pair-bonds, accrue status, and have children, thus as men age life history theory predicts a decrease in risk taking behavior and a reallocation of energy to parenting rather than mating. Average age at drug initiation, occurs in adolescence (ages 15–25) and supports this shift. In contrast, life history theory predicts that women are less prone to engage in risk-taking behavior because they experience less variance in reproductive success and have more to lose from risk taking and more to gain from focusing effort on parenting.\n\nAlmost all major recreational drugs are secondary plant compounds or a close chemical analog and are thus teratogenic, substances known to cause congenital abnormalities and other reproductive harms (e.g. nicotine, carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide). Give sex-specific vulnerabilities and fitness costs, the fetal protection hypothesis proposes that selection for increased drug avoidance could have evolved in women to protect them from harming their developing fetuses and nursing infants.\n\nAncestral Women and Conditions: In the environment of evolutionary adaptation (EEA), selection pressures shaping avoidance of or defenses against teratogenic substances would have been high. Evidence from evolutionary anthropology suggest ancestral women, similar to women in extant hunter gatherer populations, experienced high fertility and high infant mortality. Importantly, high fertility is characterized by short inter-birth intervals, early age at first birth, and periods of breastfeeding spanning upwards of two years. Given such high reproductive costs, it is likely the fitness cost of ingesting neurotoxins is higher for women than men. One such hunter-gatherer population, the Aka, have incredibly high smoking prevalence rates among men (95%), but very low rates among women (5%).\n\nDrugs and Negative Fertility Endpoints: Studies have shown that fetal exposure to nicotine is associated with a range of negative outcomes before and during parturition as well as for the baby early and later in life. It has also been shown that cigarette smoking has a significant negative effect on the clinical outcome of assisted reproduction treatments, with smokers requiring higher mean gonadotropin doses for ovarian stimulation and requiring nearly twice the number of in vitro fertilization cycles to conceive.\n\nFemale Specific Defenses: Compared to men, women metabolize toxins at faster rates and detect the presence of toxins at lower concentrations. Ovarian hormones have been implicated in the activity of xenobiotic metabolism. Research on pregnant women has documented the differential effects of estrogen and progesterone on the expression of CYPs in response to cigarette smoke. Using hepatic cells, Choi et al., (2012) found that progesterone and estradiol altered drug metabolism but only when hormone concentrations reach that which is normal for pregnancy. Changes in xenobiotic metabolism in women using birth control also suggest hormonally mediated influences. Specifically, changes in hepatic drug elimination for CYP1A2, CYP2C19 and CYP2A6 are similar in pregnant women and non-pregnant women using hormonal contraception. Furthermore, in women across the menstrual cycle, smoking topography variables (e.g. total number of cigarettes smoked, mean puff volume, etc.) seem to be mediated by estradiol and progesterone. In various studies, regular smokers have been shown to produce approximately one-third less estrogens (including estradiol) during the postovulatory menstrual phase than non-smoking counterparts. Research suggests the reason for this relationship is due to a functional tradeoff, with the enzymes that metabolize estradiol instead metabolizing/detoxifying tobacco toxins.\n\n"}
{"id": "219878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219878", "title": "Exploration", "text": "Exploration\n\nExploration is the act of searching for the purpose of discovery of information or resources. Exploration occurs in all non-sessile animal species, including humans. In human history, its most dramatic rise was during the Age of Discovery when European explorers sailed and charted much of the rest of the world for a variety of reasons. Since then, major explorations after the Age of Discovery have occurred for reasons mostly aimed at information discovery.\n\nIn scientific research, exploration is one of three purposes of empirical research (the other two being description and explanation). The term is often used metaphorically. For example, an individual may speak of exploring the Internet, sexuality, etc.\n\nThe Phoenicians (1550 BCE–300 BCE) traded throughout the Mediterranean Sea and Asia Minor though many of their routes are still unknown today. The presence of tin in some Phoenician artifacts suggests that they may have traveled to Britain. According to Virgil's Aeneid and other ancient sources, the legendary Queen Dido was a Phoenician from Tyre who sailed to North Africa and founded the city of Carthage.\n\nHanno the Navigator (500 BC), a Carthaginean navigator explored the Western Coast of Africa.\n\n\nThe Romans organized expeditions to cross the Sahara desert with five different routes:\n\n\nAll these expeditions were supported by legionaries and had mainly a commercial purpose. Only the one done by emperor Nero seemed to be a preparative for the conquest of Ethiopia or Nubia: in 62 AD two legionaries explored the sources of the Nile river.\n\nOne of the main reasons of the explorations was to get gold using the camel to transport it.\n\nThe explorations near the African western and eastern coasts were supported by Roman ships and deeply related to the naval commerce (mainly toward the Indian Ocean).\nRomans organized several explorations also in Northern Europe, and as far as Asia up to China .\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the 2nd century BC, the Han dynasty explored much of the Eastern Northern Hemisphere. Starting in 139 BC, the Han diplomat Zhang Qian traveled west in an unsuccessful attempt to secure an alliance with the Da Yuezhi against the Xiongnu (the Yuezhi had been evicted from Gansu by the Xiongnu in 177 BC); however, Zhang's travels discovered entire countries which the Chinese were unaware of, including the remnants of the conquests of Alexander the Great (r. 336–323 BC). When Zhang returned to China in 125 BC, he reported on his visits to Dayuan (Fergana), Kangju (Sogdiana), and Daxia (Bactria, formerly the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom which had just been subjugated by the Da Yuezhi). Zhang described Dayuan and Daxia as agricultural and urban countries like China, and although he did not venture there, described Shendu (the Indus River valley of Northwestern India) and Anxi (Arsacid territories) further west.\n\nFrom about 800 AD to 1040 AD, the Vikings explored Europe and much of the Western Northern Hemisphere via rivers and oceans. For example, it is known that the Norwegian Viking explorer, Erik the Red (950–1003), sailed to and settled in Greenland after being expelled from Iceland, while his son, the Icelandic explorer Leif Ericson (980–1020), reached Newfoundland and the nearby North American coast, and is believed to be the first European to land in North America.\n\nPolynesians were a maritime people, who populated and explored the central and south Pacific for around 5,000 years, up to about 1280 when they discovered New Zealand. The key invention to their exploration was the outrigger canoe, which provided a swift and stable platform for carrying goods and people. Based on limited evidence, it is thought that the voyage to New Zealand was deliberate. It is unknown if one or more boats went to New Zealand, or the type of boat, or the names of those who migrated. 2011 studies at Wairau Bar in New Zealand show a high probability that one origin was Ruahine Island in the Society Islands. Polynesians may have used the prevailing north easterly trade winds to reach New Zealand in about three weeks. The Cook Islands are in direct line along the migration path and may have been an intermediate stopping point. There are cultural and language similarities between Cook Islanders and New Zealand Maori. Early Maori had different legends of their origins, but the stories were misunderstood and reinterpreted in confused written accounts by early European historians in New Zealand trying to present a coherent pattern of Maori settlement in New Zealand.\n\nMathematical modelling based on DNA genome studies, using state-of-the-art techniques, have shown that a large number of Polynesian migrants (100–200), including women, arrived in New Zealand around the same time, in about 1280. Otago University studies have tried to link distinctive DNA teeth patterns, which show special dietary influence, with places in or nearby the Society Islands.\n\nThe Chinese explorer, Wang Dayuan (fl. 1311–1350) made two major trips by ship to the Indian Ocean. During 1328–1333, he sailed along the South China Sea and visited many places in Southeast Asia and reached as far as South Asia, landing in Sri Lanka and India. Then in 1334–1339, he visited North Africa and East Africa. Later, the Chinese admiral Zheng He (1371–1433) made seven voyages to Arabia, East Africa, India, Indonesia and Thailand.\n\nThe Age of Discovery, also known as the Age of Exploration, is one of the most important periods of geographical exploration in human history. It started in the early 15th century and lasted until the 17th century. In that period, Europeans discovered and/or explored vast areas of the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania. Portugal and Spain dominated the first stages of exploration, while other European nations followed, such as England, Netherlands, and France.\nThe most important explorers of this period include: Diogo Cão (c.1452 –c.1486) who discovered and ascended the Congo River and reached the coasts of the present-day Angola and Namibia; Bartolomeu Dias (c. 1450–1500), who was the first European to reach the Cape of Good Hope and other parts of the South African coast; Christopher Columbus (1451–1506), who led a Castilian (Spanish) expedition across the Atlantic, discovering America; Vasco da Gama (1460–1524), a navigator who made the first trip from Europe to India and back by the Cape of Good Hope, discovering the ocean route to the East; Pedro Alvares Cabral (c. 1467/68–c.1520) who, following the path of Gama, claimed Brazil and led the first expedition that linked Europe, Africa, America, and Asia; Diogo Dias, who discovered the eastern coast of Madagascar and rounded the corner of Africa; explorers such as Diogo Fernandes Pereira and Pedro Mascarenhas (1470–1555), among others, who discovered and mapped the Mascarene Islands and other archipelagos; António de Abreu (c.1480–c.1514) and Francisco Serrão (14?–1521), who led the first direct European fleet into the Pacific Ocean (on its western edges), through the Sunda Islands, reaching the Moluccas; Juan Ponce de León (1474–1521), who discovered and mapped the coast of Florida; Vasco Núñez de Balboa (c. 1475–1519), who was the first European to view the Pacific Ocean from American shores (after crossing the Isthmus of Panama) confirming that America was a separate continent from Asia; Ferdinand Magellan (1480–1521), who was the first navigator to cross the Pacific Ocean, discovering the Strait of Magellan, the Tuamotus and Mariana Islands, achieving a nearly complete circumnavigation of the Earth, in multiple voyages, for the first time; Juan Sebastian Elcano (1476–1526), who completed the first global circumnavigation; Aleixo Garcia (14?–1527), who explored the territories of present-day southern Brazil, Paraguay and Bolivia, crossing the Chaco and reaching the Andes (near Sucre); Jorge de Menezes (c. 1498–?), who discovered Papua New Guinea; García Jofre de Loaísa (1490–1526), who discovered the Marshall Islands; Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca (1490–1558), who discovered the Mississippi River and was the first European to sail the Gulf of Mexico and cross Texas; Jacques Cartier (1491–1557), who drew the first maps of part of central and maritime Canada; Andres de Urdaneta (1498–1568), who discovered the maritime route from Asia to the Americas; Francisco Vázquez de Coronado (1510–1554), who discovered the Grand Canyon and the Colorado River; Francisco de Orellana (1511–1546), who was the first European to navigate the length of the Amazon River.\nContinuing in the second half of the 16th century and the 17th century with explorers such as Andrés de Urdaneta (1498–1568), who discovered the maritime route from Asia to the Americas; Álvaro de Mendaña (1542–1595), who discovered the Tuvalu archipelago, the Marquesas, the Solomon Islands and Wake Island; Willem Janszoon (1570–1630), who made the first recorded European landing in Australia; Pedro Fernandes de Queirós (1565–1614), who discovered the Pitcairn Islands and the Vanuatu archipelago; Yñigo Ortiz de Retez, who discovered and reached eastern and northern New Guinea; Luis Váez de Torres (1565–1613), who discovered the Torres Strait between Australia and New Guinea; Henry Hudson (156?–1611), who explored the Hudson Bay in Canada; Samuel de Champlain (1574–1635), who explored St. Lawrence River and the Great Lakes (in Canada and northern United States); Abel Tasman (1603–1659), who explored North Australia, discovered Tasmania and New Zealand; and René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle (1643–1687), who explored the Great Lakes region of the United States and Canada, and the entire length of the Mississippi River.\n\nLong after the golden age of discovery, other explorers \"completed\" the world map, such as various Russians explorers, reaching the Siberian Pacific coast and the Bering Strait, at the extreme edge of Asia and Alaska (North America); Vitus Bering (1681–1741) who in the service of the Russian Navy, explored the Bering Strait, the Bering Sea, the North American coast of Alaska, and some other northern areas of the Pacific Ocean; and James Cook, who explored the east coast of Australia, the Hawaiian Islands, and circumnavigated the Antarctic continent.\n\nHumanity is continuing to follow the impulse to explore, moving beyond Earth. Space exploration started in the 20th century with the invention of exo-atmospheric rockets. This has given humans the opportunity to travel to the moon, and to send robotic explorers to other planets and far beyond.\n\nBoth of the Voyager probes have left the Solar System, bearing imprinted gold discs with multiple data types.\n\nA 2015 study, performed on mobile phone data and on GPS tracks of private vehicles in Italy, demonstrated that individuals naturally split into two well-defined categories according to their mobility habits, dubbed \"returners\" and \"explorers\". \n\"Explorers\" showed a star-like mobility pattern: they have a central core of locations (composed by home and work places) around which distant core of locations gravitates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22832855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22832855", "title": "Gabriel Øidne", "text": "Gabriel Øidne\n\nGabriel Øidne (11 February 1918 – 4 April 1991) was a Norwegian geographer and historian. Analyzing regional differences in party choice in Norway, he was the first to pinpoint factors relating to relations of production as well as counter-cultural cleavages when describing distinctions between Eastern and Western Norway. He also wrote several works on his native region, Agder, among others on the so-called child migration in older times.\n\nØidne was born in 1918 in Konsmo. He took the cand.philol. degree at the University of Oslo in 1950, with the paper \"Audnedalen\"—a work on his native valley.\n\nØidne is first and foremost known for the article \"Litt om motsetninga mellom Austlandet og Vestlandet\" (On the Distinction Between Eastern and Western Norway), published in the periodical \"Syn og Segn\" in 1957 and which was also selected for the Norwegian Sociology Canon in 2009–2011. In it, he began by discrediting popular theories of the impact of topography on people, as well as Andreas Hansen's race theories. Instead, he cited differences in relations of production; Western Norway was more egalitarian than Eastern Norway. Also, he noted that three counter-cultures were rooted Western Norway, creating cleavages towards the rest of Norway: Landsmål, temperance and laity. Politically, Øidne tied these counter-cultures to the Liberal and Christian Democratic parties. He also noted the similarity in support of the Christian Democratic Party and the short-lived Moderate Liberal Party. Thus the article laid the grounds for voter sociology, a subset of political sociology which explores the ties between political party choices and the sociological characteristics of the electorate.\n\nIn the same year that Øidne published the article, the first election survey in Norway was held, administered by the Norwegian Institute of Social Research in conjunction with the Norwegian parliamentary election of 1957. Inspirations in addition to Øidne include Paul Lazarsfeld et al.'s book \"The People's Choice\".\n\nØidne never developed his own theories, limiting himself to only one article, but in later research his theories were developed scientifically by internationally renowned political scientists Henry Valen and Stein Rokkan. Pioneer works were \"Regional Contrasts in Norwegian Politics\", published in 1964 by Rokkan and Valen, and \"Party Systems and Voter Alignments\", published in 1967 by Rokkan and Seymour Martin Lipset.\n\nIn 1973 Øidne issued the book \"Østkant og vestkant i Oslos politiske historie: sosial og politisk struktur i Oslo 1906–69\", about the distinctions between eastern and western Oslo.\n\nØidne also wrote on child migration in the Agder region, among others in the 1955 work \"Vest-Agder heimkunnskap\". The study of this field has traditionally been severely underdeveloped in Norway, but Øidne grew up in this region and was aware of the practice, which took place between c.1750 and c.1910. Because of poverty, children in Southern Norway were sent to work during the summer. The migration typically took place from valleys in Vest-Agder—Kvinesdal, Lyngdalen, Audnedalen, Mandalen, Marnardal, Åseral and Sirdal as well as Lindesnes—to more affluent areas in Aust-Agder, often near the coast—Høvåg, Landvik, Arendal and Grimstad as well as Birkenes and Iveland. Many emigrated to the United States when they reached adolescence. In the late phase of his life Øidne assisted the screenwriter and film director Grete Salomonsen Hynnekleiv, who spent many years working on a screenplay, Yohan Barnevandrer, https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1230478/?ref_=nm_knf_i1, which she also directed. The film was released in 2010 en featured Kris Kristoffersen as the story-teller.\n"}
{"id": "15244559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15244559", "title": "George Barton Cutten", "text": "George Barton Cutten\n\nGeorge Barton Cutten (1874–1962) was a Canadian-born psychologist, moral philosopher, historian and university administrator. He was president of Acadia University from 1910 to 1922 and Colgate University from 1922 to 1942.\n\nBorn in Amherst, Nova Scotia, the son of a stipendiary magistrate, he was uncertain about what path his life should take. He had various jobs including reporter, salesman, and pipe fitter before his uncle locked him in a room, refusing to let him out until he agreed to go to university. By the fall of 1892, he had enrolled at Acadia University, Wolfville, where he joined the varsity rugby team and within three years had led the team to victory over rival Dalhousie University in 1895. He earned his BA in 1896 and a year later he was ordained a Baptist minister.\n\nHe went on to Yale University and by 1902 he had earned a degree in divinity and a PhD in psychology. There he continued his outstanding career as a football player and, on Sundays, served as a preacher at local churches. His thesis was titled \"The Psychology of Alcoholism\" which was published, in revised form, in 1907. He was appointed professor of moral philosophy, but returned to Wolfville in 1910 to accept a position as president of the university. For more than a decade at Acadia, he actively supported the university’s sporting programs and opened the Memorial Gym in 1920, a facility which continues to function today.\n\nAt the onset of the First World War, Cutten took time off to recruit for the war effort. In February 1916, he asked the board at Acadia to grant him, \"a leave of absence to enable him to pursue recruitment full time\" This leave would be extended to June 1917, and Cutten then took another leave to go to Halifax and help the city recover from the Halifax Explosion. Cutten actively encouraged students of Acadia to join the war effort as well. He would later become embroiled in a feud with Sir Sam Hughes over the breaking up of Nova Scotian battalions in order to reinforce other provincial battalions.\n\nAfter twelve years at Acadia, in 1922 he moved to Hamilton, New York where he had accepted the presidency of Colgate University. He altered the university admissions policy to block the admissions of African Americans and severely limited the admissions of Jewish students. Finding the university’s financial affairs in disorder he set out to turn its finances around. For the next seventeen years the school declared a surplus, in the meantime doubling its faculty, plant and assets. His football teams also won championships. In 1928, he introduced the \"Colgate Plan,\" an influential curriculum.\n\nHe retired from Colgate in 1942.\n\nIn his retirement, Cutten devoted his efforts to a vocation entirely divorced from his academic pursuits. Arising from an interest in American silver which began in the 1930s, in which he amassed one of the finest private collections of his time, he published several pioneering works on the history of silver design and manufacture.\n\nHe was married to Minnie W. Brown who shared his passion for silver and contributed to his books on the subject. They had four children. He died in 1962.\n\nA women’s residence named after Cutten opened at Acadia University in 1975. A residence hall complex and its associated dining hall at Colgate were named for him in 1966. Controversy erupted over the name in 2001 and resulted in a serious debate about his role as a eugenicist. At issue was his statement to the Canadian Society of New York in 1923 that \"the melting pot is destructive to our race ... we must build up from our resources and conserve our race power, or else we must admit only such immigrants as shall strengthen and not weaken our race, or both. The danger the melting pot brings to the nation is the breeding out of the higher division of the white race and the breeding in of the lower divisions.\" Though a substantial number of students organized and signed petitions calling for the renaming of the residence hall complex, the name remained. The hall was renamed by the Colgate Board of Trustees in 2017 after advocacy from faculty, the University Planning Committee, and the Student Government Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50985023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50985023", "title": "Gillian Clark (historian)", "text": "Gillian Clark (historian)\n\nEdith Gillian Clark is Emeritus Professor of Classics and Ancient History at the University of Bristol. She retired from the University of Bristol in 2010. Clark has made a significant contribution to the history, literature, and religion of late antiquity. She is currently working on a commentary of Augustine of Hippo's \"City of God\", under contract with Oxford University Press. She is a Fellow of the British Academy and an editor for the \"Translated Texts for Historians\" \"300–800\" series, published by Liverpool University Press. She is editor of the monograph series \"Oxford Early Christian Texts\", published by Oxford University Press. An event, \"Christianity and Roman Society: A Colloquium for Professor Gillian Clark\", was held in her honour in 2011 at the University of Bristol and a \"festschrift\" was published in 2014 as a result.\n\nClark studied Greek and Latin language and literature, ancient history, and philosophy at Somerville College, Oxford. She received her Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from the University of Oxford. She has taught at the universities of Glasgow, St Andrews, Manchester, Liverpool and Bristol.\n\n"}
{"id": "15603481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15603481", "title": "Gladys Tantaquidgeon", "text": "Gladys Tantaquidgeon\n\nGladys Iola Tantaquidgeon (June 15, 1899 – November 1, 2005) was a Mohegan medicine woman, anthropologist, author, tribal council member, and elder based in Connecticut.\n\nAs a young girl, she was selected by women elders for training in traditional pharmacology and culture. She studied anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania with Frank Speck. Beginning in 1934, Tantaquidgeon worked with the Bureau of Indian Affairs for more than a decade, including several years among western Native American tribes. Together with her father and brother, in 1931 she founded the Tantaquidgeon Indian Museum, the oldest to be owned and operated by Native Americans.\n\nShe published several books about Native American traditional medicine and healing with plants. For years she preserved vital records and correspondence of tribal members, which proved integral to their making the case for federal recognition, which the Mohegan received in 1994. That year, Tantaquidgeon was inducted into the Connecticut Women's Hall of Fame.\n\nGladys Tantaquidgeon was the third of seven children born to Mohegan parents, John and Harriet Fielding Tantaquidgeon. They lived on Mohegan Hill in Quinnetucket (Uncasville, in New London County, Connecticut). She was a 10th-generation descendant of the Mohegan chief Uncas, who was prominent in the colonial era. Culturally, the Mohegan tribe is Algonkian; linguistically, they speak one of the many Algonquian languages.\n\nIn childhood, Gladys learned traditional practices, beliefs, and lore from \"nanus,\" respected women elders. By age five, the tribal \"nanus\" had chosen her to be schooled in the traditions of Mohegan culture. One of her mentors was the Mohegan traditionalist Fidelia Fielding (1827–1908). From Fielding, she learned the ways of the \"makiawisug\" who guard the healing plants.\n\nAnother mentor was her maternal aunt, \"Nanu\" Emma Fielding Baker (1828-1916). In 1992 Baker was posthumously elected by the tribe as the Mohegan Tribal Medicine Woman and was inducted into the Connecticut Women's Hall of Fame for her work in education and preservation. Gladys started studying with her aunt in 1904, specializing in traditional herbal medicine, and attending classes in local schools.\n\nIn 1919, at the age of 20, Tantaquidgeon attended the University of Pennsylvania to study anthropology. Penn anthropologist Frank Speck met Gladys as a child while he was working with her \"nanu\" Fidelia Fielding. When Gladys was old enough, Speck invited her to study with him at Penn; he arranged housing with foreign students at his home in Swarthmore, enrolled her in classes, and enlisted her as a fieldwork assistant to broaden her understanding of Native American cultures. Tantaquidgeon later did field work related to the Lenape and other eastern Algonquian tribes. She expanded her knowledge of traditional pharmacopeia by researching herbal medicine practices among many related East Coast tribes.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1947, at the time of the Indian Reorganization Act and the Indian New Deal under the administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Tantaquidgeon started work with the US Bureau of Indian Affairs. She was hired in 1934 under the Wheeler-Howard Act to administer social service benefits for Indians. At first she was assigned to the Yankton Sioux Indian Reservation in South Dakota.\n\nIn 1938 Tantaquidgeon transferred to the Indian Arts and Crafts Board to serve as a \"Native Arts Specialist\". Working in the Dakotas, Montana and Wyoming, she helped indigenous artisans preserve traditional skills and arts. In addition, she helped them form cooperatives and other institutions for the sale and management of their arts. She developed ways for tribes to revive their cultural practices. According to the Mohegan Tribal Historian Melissa Fawcett, while working for the federal Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Tantaquidgeon also helped preserve customs that had been prohibited in the 19th century, such as the Ghost Dance and the Sun Dance. Part of Tantaquidgeon's job was to encourage the restoration of these and other previously prohibited traditional practices.\nIn 1931, Tantaquidgeon worked with her brother Harry, a former chief, and father John to found the Tantaquidgeon Indian Museum. It is the oldest such museum to be owned and operated by Native Americans. After concluding her government service in 1947, Tantaquidgeon returned to Mohegan Hill, Uncasville. She worked full-time at the museum for the next 50 years, until 1998.\n\nAs a librarian in the Niantic Women’s Prison in the late 1940s, Tantaquidgeon had helped minority women. During the 1970s and 1980s, she also served on the Mohegan Tribal Council, encouraging the preservation and revival of tribal customs and language.\n\nShe published several books in her lifetime about traditional herbal medicine. Her best-known work, \"A Study of Delaware Indian Medicine Practices and Folk Beliefs\" (1942) was reprinted in 1972, 1995 and 2000 as \"Folk Medicine of the Delaware and Related Algonkian Indians.\" In 1992 she was elected as the Tribal Medicine Woman of the Mohegan.\n\nTantaquidgeon preserved numerous records and tribal correspondence in boxes under her bed. These proved critical as documentation to aid the tribe's case for federal recognition. The tribe proved community continuity and was acknowledged as federally recognized in 1994, as part of a settlement linked to their claim for the lands that make up the present-day Mohegan reservation.\n\nDr. Gladys Tantaquidgeon was the great-aunt of Melissa Tantaquidgeon Zobel, an author and the current Mohegan Medicine Woman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47653194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47653194", "title": "Haymond Maxwell", "text": "Haymond Maxwell\n\nHaymond Maxwell (October 24, 1879 Clarksburg, West Virginia – December 19, 1958 Clarksburg, West Virginia) was an American lawyer, politician, judge, and Justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia.\n\nMaxwell was the son of Edwin Maxwell, a prominent West Virginia judge and politician, and Loretta Shuttleworth. Maxwell was educated in the public schools and then at West Virginia University, graduating in 1900. He received a law degree there in 1901. He opened a practice in Clarksburg, and was elected to the West Virginia House of Delegates in 1905 as a Republican. In May 1909 he was appointed as judge of the criminal court in Harrison County, serving until 1912. As of December 1909 he was, at the age of 30, the youngest judge in the state. In 1912 and 1920 he was elected to eight-year terms as Circuit Court judge. He resigned in 1925 to return to private practice. He was appointed to the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals on August 21, 1928, and elected on the Republican ticket to a full term in November of that year, serving until December 31, 1940. He was unsuccessful in seeking re-election in 1940 and 1944.\n\nIn 1938 Maxwell published \"The Story of Sycamore\", a local history of the settlements along Sycamore Creek near Clarksburg.\n\nMaxwell married his distant cousin Carrie Virginia Maxwell in 1905; they had five children. His son Porter Wilson Maxwell commanded a squadron of Navy divebombers during World War II; he was killed in action on July 24, 1945.\n"}
{"id": "38577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38577", "title": "Hebron", "text": "Hebron\n\nHebron ( ; ) is a Palestinian city located in the southern West Bank, south of Jerusalem. Nestled in the Judaean Mountains, it lies 930 meters (3,050 ft) above sea level. The largest city in the West Bank, and the second largest in the Palestinian territories after Gaza, it has a population of 215,452 Palestinians (2016), and between 500 and 850 Jewish settlers concentrated in and around the old quarter. Jews, Christians, and Muslims all venerate the city of Hebron for its association with Abraham – it includes the traditional burial site of the biblical Patriarchs and Matriarchs, within the Cave of the Patriarchs. Judaism ranks Hebron as the second-holiest city after Jerusalem, some Muslims regard it as the fourth holiest cities, while others consider Damascus, Kairouan, Eyüp district in Istanbul, or Harar to be fourth holiest.\n\nThe Hebron Protocol of 1997 divided the city into two sectors: H1, controlled by the Palestinian Authority and H2, roughly 20% of the city, administered by Israel. All security arrangements and travel permits for local residents are coordinated between the Palestinian Authority and Israel via military administration of the West Bank (COGAT). The Jewish settlers have their own governing municipal body, the Committee of the Jewish Community of Hebron.\n\nHebron is a busy hub of West Bank trade, generating roughly a third of the area's gross domestic product, largely due to the sale of limestone from quarries in its area. It has a local reputation for its grapes, figs, limestone, pottery workshops and glassblowing factories, and is the location of the major dairy-product manufacturer, \"al-Juneidi\". The old city of Hebron features narrow, winding streets, flat-roofed stone houses, and old bazaars. The city is home to Hebron University and to the Palestine Polytechnic University.\n\nHebron is attached to cities of ad-Dhahiriya, Dura, Yatta, the surrounding villages with no borders. Hebron Governorate is the largest Palestinian governorate, with a population of 600,364 .\n\nThe name \"Hebron\" traces back to two Semitic roots, which coalesce in the form \"ḥbr\", having reflexes in Hebrew and Amorite and denoting a range of meanings from \"colleague\", \"unite\" or \"friend\". In the proper name \"Hebron\", the original sense may have been \"alliance\".\n\nThe Arabic term derives from the Qur'anic epithet for Abraham, \"Khalil al-Rahman\" () \"Beloved of the Merciful\" or \"Friend of God\". Arabic \"Al-Khalil\" thus precisely translates the ancient Hebrew toponym \"Ḥebron\", understood as \"ḥaber\" (friend).\n\nArchaeological excavations reveal traces of strong fortifications dated to the Early Bronze Age, covering some 24–30 dunams centered around Tel Rumeida. The city flourished in the 17th–18th centuries BCE before being destroyed by fire, and was resettled in the late Middle Bronze Age. This older Hebron was originally a Canaanite royal city. Abrahamic legend associates the city with the Hittites. It has been conjectured that Hebron might have been the capital of Shuwardata of Gath, an (Canaanite)Indo-European contemporary of Jerusalem's regent, Abdi-Kheba, although the Hebron hills were almost devoid of settlements in the Late Bronze Age. The Abrahamic traditions associated with Hebron are nomadic, and may also reflect a Kenite element, since the nomadic Kenites are said to have long occupied the city, and \"Heber\" is the name for a Kenite clan. In the narrative of the later Hebrew conquest, Hebron was one of two centres under Canaanite control and ruled by the three sons of Anak (\"bnê/ylîdê hā'ănaq\"), or may reflect some Kenite and Kenizzite migration from the Negev to Hebron, since terms related to the Kenizzites appear to be close to Hurrian, which suggests that behind the Anakim legend lies some early Hurrian population. In Biblical lore they are represented as descendants of the Nephilim. The Book of Genesis mentions that it was formerly called Kirjath-arba, or \"city of four\", possibly referring to the four pairs or couples who were buried there, or four tribes, or four quarters, four hills, or a confederated settlement of four families.\n\nThe story of Abraham's purchase of the Cave of the Patriarchs from the Hittites constitutes a seminal element in what was to become the Jewish attachment to the land in that it signified the first \"real estate\" of Israel long before the conquest under Joshua. In settling here, Abraham is described as making his first covenant, an alliance with two local Amorite clans who became his \"ba’alei brit\" or \"masters of the covenant\".\n\nThe Hebron of the Bible was centered on what is now known as Tel Rumeida, while its ritual centre was located at Elonei Mamre. It is said to have been wrested from the Canaanites by either Joshua, who is said to have wiped out all of its previous inhabitants, \"destroying everything that drew breath, as the Lord God of Israel had commanded\", or the tribe of Judah as a whole, or specifically Caleb the Judahite. The town itself, with some contiguous pasture land, is then said to have been granted to the Levites of the clan of Kohath, while the fields of the city, as well as its surrounding villages were assigned to Caleb (), who expels the three giants, Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai, who ruled the city. Later, the biblical narrative has King David called by God to relocate to Hebron and reign from there for some seven years (). It is there that the elders of Israel come to him to make a covenant before Elohim and anoint him king of Israel. It was in Hebron again that Absalom has himself declared king and then raises a revolt against his father David (). It became one of the principal centers of the Tribe of Judah and was classified as one of the six traditional Cities of Refuge.\n\nAs is shown by the discovery at Lachish, the second most important Judean city after Jerusalem, of seals with the inscription \"lmlk Hebron\" (to the king Hebron), Hebron continued to constitute an important local economic centre, given its strategic position on the crossroads between the Dead Sea to the east, Jerusalem to the north, the Negev and Egypt to the south, and the Shepelah and the coastal plain to the west. Lying along trading routes, it remained administratively and politically dependent on Jerusalem for this period.\n\nAfter the destruction of the First Temple, most of the Jewish inhabitants of Hebron were exiled, and according to the conventional view, some researchers found traces of Edomite presence after the 5th-4th centuries BCE, as the area became Achaemenid province, and, in the wake of Alexander the Great's conquest, Hebron was throughout the Hellenistic period under the influence of Idumea (as the new area inhabited by the Edomites was called during the Persian, Hellenistic and Roman periods), as is attested by inscriptions for that period bearing names with the Edomite God Qōs. Jews also appear to have lived there after the return from the Babylonian exile (). During the Maccabean revolt, Hebron was burnt and plundered by Judah Maccabee who fought against the Edomites in 167 BCE. The city appears to have long resisted Hasmonean dominance, however, and indeed as late as the First Jewish–Roman War was still considered Idumean.\n\nThe present day city of Hebron was settled in the valley downhill from Tel Rumeida at the latest by Roman times.\n\nHerod the Great, king of Judea, built the wall which still surrounds the Cave of the Patriarchs. During the First Jewish-Roman War, Hebron was captured and plundered by Simon Bar Giora, a peasantry faction leader, without bloodshed. The \"little town\" was later laid to waste by Vespasian's officer Sextus Vettulenus Cerialis. Josephus wrote that he \"slew all he found there, young and old, and burnt down the town.\" After the defeat of Simon bar Kokhba in 135 CE, innumerable Jewish captives were sold into slavery at Hebron's Terebinth slave-market.\n\nThe city was part of the Byzantine Empire in Palaestina Prima province at the Diocese of the East. The Byzantine emperor Justinian I erected a Christian church over the Cave of Machpelah in the 6th century CE, which was later destroyed by the Sassanid general Shahrbaraz in 614 when Khosrau II's armies besieged and took Jerusalem. Jews were not permitted to reside in Hebron under Byzantine rule. The sanctuary itself however was spared by the Persians, in deference to the Jewish population, who were numerous in the Sassanid army.\n\nHebron was one of the last cities of Palestine to fall to the Islamic invasion in the 7th century, possibly the reason why Hebron is not mentioned in any traditions of the Arab conquest. After the fall of the city, Jerusalem's conqueror, Caliph Omar ibn al-Khattab permitted Jewish people to return and to construct a small synagogue within the Herodian precinct. When the Rashidun Caliphate established rule over Hebron in 638, they converted the Byzantine church at the site of Abraham's tomb into a mosque. It became an important station on the caravan trading route from Egypt, and also as a way-station for pilgrims making the yearly hajj from Damascus. Catholic bishop Arculf who visited the Holy Land during the Umayyad rule described the city as unfortified and poor. In his writings he also mentioned camel caravans transporting firewood from Hebron to Jerusalem, which implies there was a presence of Arab nomads in the region at that time. Trade greatly expanded, in particular with Bedouins in the Negev (\"al-Naqab\") and the population to the east of the Dead Sea (\"Baḥr Lūṭ\"). According to Anton Kisa, Jews from Hebron (and Tyre) founded the Venetian glass-industry in the 9th century. Islam did not view the town significant before the 10th-century, it being almost absent in Muslim literature of the period. Jerusalemite geographer al-Muqaddasi, writing in 985 described the town as follows:'Habra (Hebron) is the village of Abraham al-Khalil (the Friend of God)...Within it is a strong fortress...being of enormous squared stones. In the middle of this stands a dome of stone, built in Islamic times, over the sepulchre of Abraham. The tomb of Isaac lies forward, in the main building of the mosque, the tomb of Jacob to the rear; facing each prophet lies his wife. The enclosure has been converted into a mosque, and built around it are rest houses for the pilgrims, so that they adjoin the main edifice on all sides. A small water conduit has been conducted to them. All the countryside around this town for about half a stage has villages in every direction, with vineyards and grounds producing grapes and apples called Jabal Nahra...being fruit of unsurpassed excellence...Much of this fruit is dried, and sent to Egypt.\n\nIn Hebron is a public guest house continuously open, with a cook, a baker and servants in regular attendance. These offer a dish of lentils and olive oil to every poor person who arrives, and it is set before the rich, too, should they wish to partake. Most men express the opinion this is a continuation of the guest house of Abraham, however, it is, in fact from the bequest of [the sahaba (companion) of the prophet Muhammad] Tamim-al Dari and others... The Amir of Khurasan...has assigned to this charity one thousand dirhams yearly, ...al-Shar al-Adil bestowed on it a substantial bequest. At present time I do not know in all the realm of al-Islam any house of hospitality and charity more excellent than this one.'\n\nThe custom, known as the 'table of Abraham' (\"simāt al-khalil\"), was similar to the one established by the Fatimids, and in Hebron's version, it found its most famous expression. The Persian traveller Nasir-i-Khusraw who visited Hebron in 1047 records in his Safarnama that\n\nGeniza documents from this period refer only to \"the graves of the patriarchs\" and reveal there was an organised Jewish community in Hebron who had a synagogue near the tomb, and were occupied with accommodating Jewish pilgrims and merchants. During the Seljuk period, the community was headed by Saadia b. Abraham b. Nathan, who was known as the \"\"haver\" of the graves of the patriarchs.\"\n\nThe Caliphate lasted in the area until 1099, when the Christian Crusader Godfrey de Bouillon took Hebron and renamed it \"Castellion Saint Abraham\". It was designated capital of the southern district of the Crusader Kingdom and given, in turn, as the fief of Saint Abraham, to Geldemar Carpinel, the bishop Gerard of Avesnes, Hugh of Rebecques, Walter Mohamet and Baldwin of Saint Abraham. As a Frankish garrison of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, its defence was precarious being 'little more than an island in a Moslem ocean'. The Crusaders converted the mosque and the synagogue into a church. In 1106, an Egyptian campaign thrust into southern Palestine and almost succeeded the following year in wresting Hebron back from the Crusaders under Baldwin I of Jerusalem, who personally led the counter-charge to beat the Muslim forces off. In the year 1113 during the reign of Baldwin II of Jerusalem, according to Ali of Herat (writing in 1173), a certain part over the cave of Abraham had given way, and \"a number of Franks had made their entrance therein\". And they discovered \"(the bodies) of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob\", \"their shrouds having fallen to pieces, lying propped up against a wall...Then the King, after providing new shrouds, caused the place to be closed once more\". Similar information is given in Ibn at Athir's Chronicle under the year 1119; \"In this year was opened the tomb of Abraham, and those of his two sons Isaac and Jacob ...Many people saw the Patriarch. Their limbs had nowise been disturbed, and beside them were placed lamps of gold and of silver.\" The Damascene nobleman and historian Ibn al-Qalanisi in his chronicle also alludes at this time to the discovery of relics purported to be those of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, a discovery which excited eager curiosity among all three communities in Palestine, Muslim, Jewish, and Christian. Towards the end of the period of Crusader rule, in 1166 Maimonides visited Hebron and wrote,'On Sunday, 9 Marheshvan (17 October), I left Jerusalem for Hebron to kiss the tombs of my ancestors in the Cave. On that day, I stood in the cave and prayed, praise be to God, (in gratitude) for everything'.\n\nA royal domain, Hebron was handed over to Philip of Milly in 1161 and joined with the Seigneurie of Transjordan. A bishop was appointed to Hebron in 1168 and the new cathedral church of St Abraham was built in the southern part of the Haram. In 1167, the episcopal see of Hebron was created along with that of Kerak and Sebastia (the tomb of John the Baptist).\n\nIn 1170, Benjamin of Tudela visited the city, which he called by its Frankish name, \"St.Abram de Bron\". He reported:Here there is the great church called St. Abram, and this was a Jewish place of worship at the time of the Mohammedan rule, but the Gentiles have erected there six tombs, respectively called those of Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, Jacob and Leah. The custodians tell the pilgrims that these are the tombs of the Patriarchs, for which information the pilgrims give them money. If a Jew comes, however, and gives a special reward, the custodian of the cave opens unto him a gate of iron, which was constructed by our forefathers, and then he is able to descend below by means of steps, holding a lighted candle in his hand. He then reaches a cave, in which nothing is to be found, and a cave beyond, which is likewise empty, but when he reaches the third cave behold there are six sepulchres, those of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, respectively facing those of Sarah, Rebekah and Leah.\n\nThe Kurdish Muslim Saladin retook Hebron in 1187 – again with Jewish assistance according to one late tradition, in exchange for a letter of security allowing them to return to the city and build a synagogue there. The name of the city was changed back to \"Al-Khalil\". A Kurdish quarter still existed in the town during the early period of Ottoman rule. Richard the Lionheart retook the city soon after. Richard of Cornwall, brought from England to settle the dangerous feuding between Templars and Hospitallers, whose rivalry imperiled the treaty guaranteeing regional stability stipulated with the Egyptian Sultan As-Salih Ayyub, managed to impose peace on the area. But soon after his departure, feuding broke out and in 1241 the Templars mounted a damaging raid on what was, by now, Muslim Hebron, in violation of agreements.\n\nIn 1244, the Kharesmians destroyed the town, but left the sanctuary untouched. In 1260, after Mamluk Sultan Baibars defeated the Mongol army, the minarets were built onto the sanctuary. Six years later, while on pilgrimage to Hebron, Baibars promulgated an edict forbidding Christians and Jews from entering the sanctuary, and the climate became less tolerant of Jews and Christians than it had been under the prior Ayyubid rule. The edict for the exclusion of Christians and Jews was not strictly enforced until the middle of the 14th-century and by 1490, not even Muslims were permitted to enter the underground caverns.\n\nThe mill at Artas was built in 1307 where the profits from its income were dedicated to the Hospital in Hebron. Between 1318–20, the Na'ib of Gaza and much of coastal and interior Palestine ordered the construction of Jawli Mosque to enlarge the prayer space for worshipers at the Ibrahimi Mosque.\n\nHebron was visited by some important rabbis over the next two centuries, among them Nachmanides (1270) and Ishtori HaParchi (1322) who noted the old Jewish cemetery there. Sunni imam Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya (1292–1350) was penalised by the religious authorities in Damascus for refusing to recognise Hebron as a Muslim pilgrimage site, a view also held by his teacher Ibn Taymiyyah.\n\nThe Italian traveller, Meshulam of Volterra (1481) found not more that twenty Jewish families living in Hebron. and recounted how the Jewish women of Hebron would disguise themselves with a veil in order to pass as Muslim women and enter the Cave of the Patriarchs without being recognized as Jews.\n\nMinute descriptions of Hebron were recorded in Stephen von Gumpenberg’s Journal (1449), by Felix Fabri (1483) and by Mejr ed-Din It was in this period, also, that the Mamluk Sultan Qa'it Bay revived the old custom of the Hebron \"table of Abraham,\" and exported it as a model for his own \"madrasa\" in Medina. This became an immense charitable establishment near the Haram, distributing daily some 1,200 loaves of bread to travellers of all faiths. The Italian rabbi Obadiah ben Abraham Bartenura writing of Machpelah around 1490 wrote: 'I was in the Cave of Machpelah, over which the mosque has been built; and the Arabs hold the place in high honour. All the Kings of the Arabs come here to repeat their prayers, but neither a Jew nor an Arab may enter the Cave itself, where the real graves of the Patriarchs are; the Arabs remain above, and let down burning torches into it through a window, for they keep a light always burning there. . Bread and lentil, or some other kind of pulse (seeds of peas or beans), is distributed (by the Muslims) to the poor every day without distinction of faith, and this is done in honour of Abraham.'\n\nThe expansion of the Ottoman Empire along the southern Mediterranean coast under sultan Selim I coincided with the establishment of Inquisition commissions by the Catholic Monarchs in Spain, which ended centuries of the Iberian \"convivencia\" (coexistence). The ensuing expulsions of the Jews drove many Sephardi Jews into the Ottoman provinces, and a slow influx of Jews to the Holy Land took place, with some notable Sephardi kabbalists settling in Hebron. Over the following two centuries, there was a significant migration of Bedouin tribal groups from the Arabian Peninsula into Palestine. Many settled in three separate villages in the Wādī al Khalīl, and their descendants later formed the majority of Hebron.\n\nThe Jewish community fluctuated between 8–10 families throughout the 16th century, and suffered from severe financial straits in the first half of the century. In 1540, renowned kabbalist Malkiel Ashkenazi bought a courtyard from the small Karaite community, in which he established the Sephardi Abraham Avinu Synagogue. In 1659, Abraham Pereyra of Amsterdam founded the \"Hesed Le'Abraham yeshiva\" in Hebron which attracted many students. In the early 18th century, the Jewish community suffered from heavy debts, almost quadrupling from 1717–1729, and were \"almost crushed\" from the extortion practiced by the Turkish pashas. In 1773 or 1775, a large/substantial amount of money was extorted from the Jewish community, who paid up to avert a threatened catastrophe, after a false allegation was made accusing them of having murdered the son of a local sheikh and throwing his body into a cesspit. Emissaries from the community were frequently sent overseas to solicit funds.\n\nDuring the Ottoman period, the dilapidated state of the patriarchs' tombs was restored to a semblance of sumptuous dignity. Ali Bey, one of the few foreigners to gain access, reported in 1807 that,'all the sepulchres of the patriarchs are covered with rich carpets of green silk, magnificently embroidered with gold; those of the wives are red, embroidered in like manner. The sultans of Constantinople furnish these carpets, which are renewed from time to time. Ali Bey counted nine, one over the other, upon the sepulchre of Abraham.' Hebron also became known throughout the Arab world for its glass production, abetted by Bedouin trade networks which brought up minerals from the Dead Sea, and the industry is mentioned in the books of 19th century Western travelers to Palestine. For example, Ulrich Jasper Seetzen noted during his travels in Palestine in 1808–09 that 150 persons were employed in the glass industry in Hebron, based on 26 kilns. In 1844, Robert Sears wrote that Hebron's population of 400 Arab families \"manufactured glass lamps, which are exported to Egypt. Provisions are abundant, and there is a considerable number of shops.\" Early 19th century travellers also remarked on Hebron's flourishing agriculture. Apart from glassware, it was a major exporter of \"dibse\", grape sugar, from the famous Dabookeh grapestock characteristic of Hebron.\n\nA Peasant Arab revolt broke out in April 1834 when Ibrahim Pasha of Egypt announced he would recruit troops from the local Muslim population. Hebron, headed by its nazir Abd ar-Rahman Amr, declined to supply its quota of conscripts for the army and suffered badly from the Egyptian campaign to crush the uprising. The town was invested and when its defences fell on 4 August it was sacked by Ibrahim Pasha's army. An estimated 500 Muslims from Hebron were killed in the attack and some 750 were conscripted. 120 youths were abducted and put at the disposal of Egyptian army officers. Most of the Muslim population managed to flee beforehand to the hills. Many Jews fled to Jerusalem, but during the general pillage of the town at least five were killed. \nIn 1838, the total population was estimated at 10,000. When the Government of Ibrahim Pasha fell in 1841, the local clan-head Abd ar-Rahman Amr once again resumed the reins of power as the Sheik of Hebron. Due to his extortionate demands for cash from the local population, most of the Jewish population fled to Jerusalem. In 1846, the Ottoman Governor-in-chief of Jerusalem (\"serasker\"), Kıbrıslı Mehmed Emin Pasha, waged a campaign to subdue rebellious sheiks in the Hebron area, and while doing so, allowed his troops to sack the town. Though it was widely rumoured that he secretly protected Abd ar-Rahman, the latter was deported together with other local leaders (such as Muslih al-'Azza of Bayt Jibrin), but he managed to return to the area in 1848.\n\nBy 1850, the Jewish population consisted of 45–60 Sephardi families, some 40 born in the town, and a 30-year-old Ashkenazi community of 50 families, mainly Polish and Russian, the Lubavitch Hasidic movement having established a community in 1823. The ascendency of Ibrahim Pasha devastated for a time the local glass industry for, aside from the loss of life, his plan to build a Mediterranean fleet led to severe logging in Hebron's forests, and firewood for the kilns grew rarer. At the same time, Egypt began importing cheap European glass, the rerouting of the hajj from Damascus through Transjordan eliminated Hebron as a staging point, and the Suez canal (1869) dispensed with caravan trade. The consequence was a steady decline in the local economy.\n\nAt this time, the town was divided into four quarters: the Ancient Quarter (\"Harat al-Kadim\") near the Cave of Machpelah; to its south, the Quarter of the Silk Merchant (\"Harat al-Kazaz\"), inhabited by Jews; the Mameluke-era Sheikh's Quarter (\"Harat ash Sheikh\") to the north-west;and further north, the Dense Quarter (\"Harat al-Harbah\"). In 1855, the newly appointed Ottoman \"pasha\" (\"governor\") of the \"sanjak\" (\"district\") of Jerusalem, Kamil Pasha, attempted to subdue the rebellion in the Hebron region. Kamil and his army marched towards Hebron in July 1855, with representatives from the English, French and other Western consulates as witnesses. After crushing all opposition, Kamil appointed Salama Amr, the brother and strong rival of Abd al Rachman, as \"nazir\" of the Hebron region. After this relative quiet reigned in the town for the next 4 years. Hungarian Jews of the Karlin Hasidic court settled in another part of the city in 1866. According to Nadav Shragai Arab-Jewish relations were good, and Alter Rivlin, who spoke Arabic and Syrian-Aramaic, was appointed Jewish representative to the city council. Hebron suffered from a severe drought during 1869–71 and food sold for ten times the normal value. From 1874 the Hebron district as part of the Sanjak of Jerusalem was administered directly from Istanbul.\n\nLate in the 19th century the production of Hebron glass declined due to competition from imported European glass-ware, however, the products of Hebron continued to be sold, particularly among the poorer populace and travelling Jewish traders from the city. At the World Fair of 1873 in Vienna, Hebron was represented with glass ornaments. A report from the French consul in 1886 suggests that glass-making remained an important source of income for Hebron, with four factories earning 60,000 francs yearly. While the economy of other cities in Palestine was based on solely on trade, Hebron was the only city in Palestine that combined agriculture, livestock herding and trade, including the manufacture of glassware and processing of hides. This was because the most fertile lands were situated within the city limits. The city, nevertheless, was considered unproductive and had a reputation \"being an asylum for the poor and the spiritual.\" Differing in architectural style from Nablus, whose wealthy merchants built handsome houses, Hebron’s main characteristic was its semi-urban, semi-peasant dwellings.\n\nHebron was 'deeply Bedouin and Islamic', and 'bleakly conservative' in its religious outlook, with a strong tradition of hostility to Jews. It had a reputation for religious zeal in jealously protecting its sites from Jews and Christians, but both the Jewish and Christian communities were apparently well integrated into the town's economic life. As a result of its commercial decline, tax revenues diminished significantly, and the Ottoman government, avoiding meddling in complex local politics, left Hebron relatively undisturbed, to become 'one of the most autonomous regions in late Ottoman Palestine.'.\n\nThe Jewish community was under French protection until 1914. The Jewish presence itself was divided between the traditional Sephardi community, Orthodox and anti-Zionist, whose members spoke Arabic and adopted Arab dress, and the more recent influx of Ashkenazis. They prayed in different synagogues, sent their children to different schools, lived in different quarters and did not intermarry.\n\nThe British occupied Hebron on 8 December 1917. Most of Hebron was owned by old Islamic charitable endowments (\"waqfs\"), with about 60% of all the land in and around Hebron belonging to the Tamīm al-Dārī waqf. In 1922, its population stood at 17,000. During the 1920s, Abd al-Ḥayy al-Khaṭīb was appointed Mufti of Hebron. Before his appointment, he had been a staunch opponent of Haj Amin, supported the Muslim National Associations and had good contacts with the Zionists. Later, al-Khaṭīb became one of the few loyal followers of Haj Amin in Hebron. During the late Ottoman period, a new ruling elite had emerged in Palestine. They later formed the core of the growing Arab nationalist movement in the early 20th century. During the Mandate period, delegates from Hebron constituted only 1 per cent of the political leadership. The Palestinian Arab decision to boycott the 1923 elections for a Legislative Council was made at the fifth Palestinian Congress, after it was reported by Murshid Shahin (an Arab pro-zionist activist) that there was intense resistance in Hebron to the elections. Almost no house in Hebron remained undamaged when an earthquake struck Palestine on July 11, 1927.\n\nThe Cave of the Patriarchs continued to remain officially closed to non-Muslims, and reports that entry to the site had been relaxed in 1928 were denied by the Supreme Muslim Council.\n\nAt this time following attempts by the Lithuanian government to draft yeshiva students into the army, the Lithuanian Hebron Yeshiva (Knesses Yisroel) relocated to Hebron, after consultations between Rabbi Nosson Tzvi Finkel, Yechezkel Sarna and Moshe Mordechai Epstein. and by 1929 had attracted some 265 students from Europe and the United States. The majority of the Jewish population lived on the outskirts of Hebron along the roads to Be'ersheba and Jerusalem, renting homes owned by Arabs, a number of which were built for the express purpose of housing Jewish tenants, with a few dozen within the city around the synagogues. During the 1929 Hebron massacre, Arab rioters slaughtered some 64 to 67 Jewish men, women and children and wounded 60, and Jewish homes and synagogues were ransacked; 435 Jews survived by virtue of the shelter and assistance offered them by their Arab neighbours, who hid them. Some Hebron Arabs, including Ahmad Rashid al-Hirbawi, president of Hebron chamber of commerce, supported the return of Jews after the massacre. Two years later, 35 families moved back into the ruins of the Jewish quarter, but on the eve of the Palestinian Arab revolt (April 23, 1936) the British Government decided to move the Jewish community out of Hebron as a precautionary measure to secure its safety. The sole exception was the 8th generation Hebronite Ya'akov ben Shalom Ezra, who processed dairy products in the city, blended in well with its social landscape and resided there under the protection of friends. In November 1947, in anticipation of the UN partition vote, the Ezra family closed its shop and left the city. Yossi Ezra has since tried to regain his family's property through the Israeli courts.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Egypt took control of Hebron. Between May and October, Egypt and Jordan tussled for dominance in Hebron and its environs. Both countries appointed military governors in the town, hoping to gain recognition from Hebron officials. The Egyptians managed to persuade the pro-Jordanian mayor to support their rule, at least superficially, but local opinion turned against them when they imposed taxes. Villagers surrounding Hebron resisted and skirmishes broke out in which some were killed. By late 1948, part of the Egyptian forces from Bethlehem to Hebron had been cut off from their lines of supply and Glubb Pasha sent 350 Arab Legionnaires and an armoured car unit to Hebron to reinforce them there. When the Armistice was signed, the city thus fell under Jordanian military control. The armistice agreement between Israel with Jordan intended to allow Israeli Jewish pilgrims to visit Hebron, but, as Jews of all nationalities were forbidden by Jordan into the country, this did not occur.\n\nIn December 1948, the Jericho Conference was convened to decide the future of the West Bank which was held by Jordan. Hebron notables, headed by mayor Muhamad 'Ali al-Ja'bari, voted in favour of becoming part of Jordan and to recognise Abdullah I of Jordan as their king. The subsequent unilateral annexation benefited the Arabs of Hebron, who during the 1950s, played a significant role in the economic development of Jordan.\n\nAlthough a significant number of people relocated to Jerusalem from Hebron during the Jordanian period, Hebron itself saw a considerable increase in population with 35,000 settling in the town. During this period, signs of the previous Jewish presence in Hebron were removed.\n\nAfter the Six-Day War in June 1967, Israel occupied Hebron along with the rest of the West Bank, establishing a military government to rule the area. In an attempt to reach a land for peace deal, Yigal Allon proposed that Israel annex 45% of the West Bank and return the remainder to Jordan. According to the Allon Plan, the city of Hebron would lie in Jordanian territory, and in order to determine Israel's own border, Allon suggested building a Jewish settlement adjacent to Hebron. David Ben-Gurion also considered that Hebron was the one sector of the conquered territories that should remain under Jewish control and be open to Jewish settlement. Apart from its symbolic message to the international community that Israel's rights in Hebron were, according to Jews, inalienable, settling Hebron also had theological significance in some quarters. For some, the capture of Hebron by Israel had unleashed a messianic fervor.\n\nSurvivors and descendants of the prior community are mixed. Some support the project of Jewish redevelopment, others commend living in peace with Hebronite Arabs, while a third group recommend a full pullout. Descendants supporting the latter views have met with Palestinian leaders in Hebron. In 1997 one group of descendants dissociated themselves from the settlers by calling them an obstacle to peace. On May 15, 2006, a member of a group who is a direct descendant of the 1929 refugees urged the government to continue its support of Jewish settlement, and allow the return of eight families evacuated the previous January from homes they set up in emptied shops near the Avraham Avinu neighborhood. Beit HaShalom, established in 2007 under disputed circumstances, was under court orders permitting its forced evacuation. All the Jewish settlers were expelled on December 3, 2008.\n\nImmediately after the 1967 war, mayor al-Ja'bari had unsuccessfully promoted the creation of an autonomous Palestinian entity in the West Bank, and by 1972, he was advocating for a confederal arrangement with Jordan instead. al-Ja'bari nevertheless consistently fostered a conciliatory policy towards Israel. He was ousted by Fahad Qawasimi in the 1976 mayoral election, which marked a shift in support towards pro-PLO nationalist leaders.\n\nSupporters of Jewish settlement within Hebron see their program as the reclamation of an important heritage dating back to Biblical times, which was dispersed or, it is argued, stolen by Arabs after the massacre of 1929. The purpose of settlement is to return to the 'land of our forefathers', and the Hebron model of reclaiming sacred sites in Palestinian territories has pioneered a pattern for settlers in Bethlehem and Nablus. Many reports, foreign and Israeli, are sharply critical of the behaviour of Hebronite settlers.\nSheik Farid Khader heads the Ja’bari tribe, consisting of some 35,000 people, which is considered one of the most important tribes in Hebron. For years, members of the Ja'bari tribe were the mayors of Hebron. Khader regularly meets with settlers and Israeli government officials and is a strong opponent of both the concept of Palestinian State and the Palestinian Authority itself. Khader believes that Jews and Arabs must learn to coexist.\n\nFollowing the 1995 Oslo Agreement and subsequent 1997 Hebron Agreement, Palestinian cities were placed under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, with the exception of Hebron, which was split into two sectors: H1 is controlled by the Palestinian Authority and H2 controlled by Israel. Around 120,000 Palestinians live in H1, while around 30,000 Palestinians along with around 700 Israelis remain under Israeli military control in H2. , a total of 86 Jewish families lived in Hebron. The IDF (Israel Defense Forces) may not enter H1 unless under Palestinian escort. Palestinians cannot approach areas where settlers live without special permits from the IDF. The Jewish settlement is widely considered to be illegal by the international community, although the Israeli government disputes this.\n\nThe Palestinian population in H2 has greatly declined due to the impact of Israeli security measures which include extended curfews, strict restrictions on movement, the closure of Palestinian commercial activities near settler areas and settler harassment.\n\nPalestinians are barred from using Al-Shuhada Street, a principal commercial thoroughfare. As a result, about half the Arab shops in H2 have gone out of business since 1994.\n\nPost-1967 settlement was impelled by theological doctrines developed in the Mercaz HaRav Kook under both its founder Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook, and his son Rabbi Zvi Yehuda Kook, according to which the Land of Israel is holy, the people, endowed with a divine spark, are holy, and that the messianic Age of Redemption has arrived, requiring that the Land and People be united in occupying the land and fulfilling the commandments. Hebron has a particular role in the unfolding 'cosmic drama': traditions hold that Abraham purchased land there, that King David was its king, and the tomb of Abraham covers the entrance to the Garden of Eden, and is a site excavated by Adam, who, with Eve, is buried there. Redemption will occur when the feminine and masculine characteristics of God are united at the site. Settling Hebron is not only a right and duty, but is doing the world at large a favour, with the community's acts an example of the Jews of Hebron being \"a light unto the nations\" (\"Or la-Goyim\") and bringing about their redemption, even if this means breaching secular laws, expressed in religiously motivated violence towards Palestinians, who are widely viewed as \"mendacious, vicious, self-centered, and impossible to trust\". Clashes with Palestinians in the settlement project have theological significance in the Jewish Hebron community: the frictions of war were, in Kook's view, conducive to the messianic process, and 'Arabs' will have to leave. There is no kin connection between the new settlers and the traditional Old Families of Jewish Hebronites, who vigorously oppose the new settler presence in Hebron. According to a ruling given by the Israeli Supreme Court in 2011, Jews have no right to properties they possessed in places like Hebron and Tel Rumeida before 1948, and have no right to compensation for their losses.\n\nIn the spring of 1968, Rabbi Moshe Levinger, together with a group of Israelis posing as Swiss tourists, rented from its owner Faiz Qawasmeh the main hotel in Hebron and then refused to leave. The Labor government's survival depended on the religious Zionism-associated National Religious Party and was, under pressure of this party, reluctant to evacuate the settlers. Defence Minister Moshe Dayan ordered their evacuation but agreed to their relocation to the nearby military base on the eastern outskirts of Hebron which was to become the settlement Kiryat Arba. After heavy lobbying by Levinger, the settlement gained the tacit support of Levi Eshkol and Yigal Allon, while it was opposed by Abba Eban and Pinhas Sapir. After more than a year and a half, the government agreed to legitimize the settlement. The settlement was later expanded with the nearby outpost Givat Ha’avot, north of the Cave of the Patriarchs. \nMuch of the Hebron-Kiryat Arba operation was planned and financed by the Movement for Greater Israel.\n\nOriginally named Hesed l'Avraham clinic, Beit Hadassah was constructed in 1893 with donations of Jewish Baghdadi families and was the only modern facility in Hebron. In 1909, it was renamed after Hadassah Women's Zionist Organization of America which took responsibility for the medical staff and provided free medical care to all.\n\nIn 1979, a group of settlers led by Miriam Levinger moved into the Dabouia, the former Hadassah Hospital in central Hebron, then under Arab administration. They turned it into a bridgehead for Jewish resettlement inside Hebron, and founded the Committee of The Jewish Community of Hebron near the Abraham Avinu Synagogue. The take-over created severe conflict with Arab shopkeepers in the same area, who appealed twice to the Israeli Supreme Court, without success. With this precedent, in February of the following year, the Government legitimized residency in the city of Hebron proper. The pattern of settlement followed by an outbreak of hostilities with local Palestinians was repeated later at Tel Rumeida.\n\nBeit Romano was built and owned by Yisrael Avraham Romano of Constantinople and served Sephardi Jews from Turkey. In 1901, a Yeshiva was established there with a dozen teachers and up to 60 students.\n\nIn 1982, Israeli authorities took over a Palestinian education office (Osama Ben Munqez School) and the adjacent bus station. The school was turned into a settlement, and the bus station into a military base against an order of the Israeli Supreme Court.\n\nIn 1807 the immigrant Sephardic Rabbi Haim Yeshua Hamitzri (Haim the Jewish Egyptian) purchased 5 dunams on the outskirts of the city and in 1811 he signed a contract for a 99-year lease on a further 800 dunams of land, which included 4 plots in Tel Rumeida. The plots were administered by his descendant Haim Bajaio after Jews left Hebron. Settlers' claims to this land are based on these precedents, but are dismissed by the rabbi's heir.\n\nIn 1984, settlers established a caravan outpost there called (\"Ramat Yeshai\"). In 1998, the Government recognized it as a settlement, and in 2001 the Defence Minister approved the building of the first housing units.\n\nThe Abraham Avinu Synagogue was the physical and spiritual center of its neighborhood and regarded as one of the most beautiful synagogues in Palestine. It was the centre of Jewish worship in Hebron until it was burnt down in 1929. In 1948 under Jordanian rule, the remaining ruins were razed.\n\nThe Avraham Avinu quarter was established next to the Vegetable and Wholesale Markets on Al-Shuhada Street in the south of the Old City. The vegetable market was closed by the Israeli military and some of the neighbouring houses were occupied by settlers and soldiers. Settlers started to take over the closed Palestinian stores, despite explicit orders of the Israeli Supreme Court that the settlers should vacate these stores and the Palestinians should be allowed to return.\n\nIn 2012, Israel Defense Forces called for the immediate removal of a new settlement, because it was seen as a provocation. The IDF has enforced settler demands against the flying of Palestinian flags on a Hebronite rooftop contiguous to settlements, though no rule forbids the practice. In August 2016, Israel announced its intention to allow settlement building in the military compound of \"Plugat Hamitkanim\" in Hebron, which had been confiscated for military purposes in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1820, it was reported that there were about 1,000 Jews in Hebron, In 1838, Hebron had an estimated 1,500 taxable Muslim households, in addition to 41 Jewish tax-payers. Taxpayers consisted here of male heads of households who owned even a very small shop or piece of land. 200 Jews and one Christian household were under 'European protections'. The total population was estimated at 10,000. In 1842, it was estimated that about 400 Arab and 120 Jewish families lived in Hebron, the latter having been diminished in number following the destruction of 1834.\n\nHistorically, the city consisted of four densely populated quarters: the \"suq\" and \"Harat al-Masharqa\" adjacent to the Ibrahimi mosque, the silk merchant quarter (\"Haret Kheitun\") to the south and the Sheikh quarter (\"Haret al-Sheikh\") to the north. It is believed the basic urban structure of the city had been established by the Mamluk period, during which time the city also had Jewish, Christian and Kurdish quarters.\n\nIn the mid 19th-century, Hebron was still divided into four quarters, but the Christian quarter had disappeared. The sections included the ancient quarter surrounding the cave of Machpelah, the \"Haret Kheitun\" (the Jewish quarter, \"Haret el-Yahud\"), the \"Haret el-Sheikh\" and the Druze quarter. As Hebron's population gradually increased, inhabitants preferred to build upwards rather than leave the safety of their neighbourhoods. By the 1880s, better security provided by the Ottoman authorities allowed the town to expand and a new commercial centre, \"Bab el-Zawiye\", emerged. As development continued, new spacious and taller structures were built to the north-west. In 1918, the town consisted of dense clusters of residential dwellings along the valley, rising onto the slopes above it. By the 1920s, the town was made up of seven quarters: \"el-Sheikh\" and \"Bab el-Zawiye\" to the west, \"el-Kazzazin\", \"el-Akkabi\" and \"el-Haram\" in the centre, \"el-Musharika\" to the south and \"el-Kheitun\" in the east. Urban sprawl had spread onto the surrounding hills by 1945. The large population increase under Jordanian rule resulted in about 1,800 new houses being built, most of them along the Hebron-Jerusalem highway, stretching northwards for over at a depth of 600 ft (200m) either way. Some 500 houses were built elsewhere on surrounding rural land. There was less development to the south-east, where housing units extended along the valley for about 1 mile (1.5 km).\n\nIn 1971, with the assistance of the Israeli and Jordanian governments, the Hebron University, an Islamic university, was founded.\n\nIn an attempt to enhance the view of the Ibrahami Mosque, Jordan demolished whole blocks of ancient houses opposite its entrance, which also resulted in improved access to the historic site. The Jordanians also demolished the old synagogue located in the el-Kazzazin quarter. In 1976, Israel recovered the site which had been converted into an animal pen, and by 1989, a settler courtyard had been established there.\nToday, the area along the north-south axis to the east comprises the modern town of Hebron (also called Upper Hebron, \"Khalil Foq\"). It was established towards the end of the Ottoman period, its inhabitants being upper and middle class Hebronites who from there from the crowded old city, \"Balde al-Qadime\" (also called Lower Hebron, \"Khalil Takht\"). The northern part of Upper Hebron includes some up-scale residential districts and also houses the Hebron University, private hospitals and the only two hotels in the city. The main commercial artery of the city is located here, situated along the Jerusalem Road, and includes modern multi-storey shopping malls. Also in this area are villas and apartment complexes built on the \"krum\", rural lands and vineyards, which used to function as recreation areas during the summer months until the early Jordanian period. The southern part is where the working-class neighbourhoods are located, along with large industrial zones and the Hebron Polytechnic University.\n\nThe main municipal and governmental buildings are located in the centre of the city. This area includes high-rise concrete and glass developments and also some distinct Ottoman era one-storey family houses, adorned with arched entrances, decorative motifs and ironwork. Hebron's domestic appliance and textile markets are located here along two parallel roads which lead to the entrance of the old city. Many of these have been relocated from the old commercial centre of the city, known as the vegetable market (\"hesbe\"), which was closed down by the Israeli military during the 1990s. The vegetable market is now located in the square of \"Bab el-Zawiye\".\n\nFrom the 1970s to the early 1990s, a third of those who lived in the city worked in the shoe industry. According to the shoe factory owner Tareq Abu Felat, the number reached least 35,000 people and there were more than 1,000 workshops around the city. Statistics from the Chamber of Commerce in Hebron put the figure at 40,000 people employed in 1,200 shoe businesses. However, the 1993 Oslo Accords and 1994 Protocol on Economic Relations between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) made it possible to mass import Chinese goods as the Palestinian National Authority, which was created after the Oslo Accords, did not regulate it. They later put import taxes but the Abu Felat, who also is the Palestinian Federation of Leather Industries's chairman, said more is still needed. The Palestinian government decided to impose an additional tax of 35% on products from China from April 2013.\n\n90% of the shoes in Palestine are now estimated to come from China, which Palestinian industry workers say are of much lower quality but also much cheaper, and the Chinese are more aesthetic. Another factor contributing to the decline of the local industry is Israeli restrictions on Palestinian exports.\n\nToday, there are less than 300 workshops in the shoe industry, who only run part-time, and they employ around 3,000–4,000 people. More than 50% of the shoes are exported to Israel, where consumers have a better economy. Less than 25% goes to the Palestinian market, with some going to Jordan, Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries.\n\nUnder the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine passed by the UN in 1947, Hebron was envisaged to become part of an Arab state. While the Jewish leaders accepted the partition plan, the Arab leadership (the Arab Higher Committee in Palestine and the Arab League) rejected it, opposing any partition. The aftermath of the 1948 war saw the city occupied and later unilaterally annexed by the kingdom of Jordan in a move supported by local Hebron officials. Following the Six-Day War of 1967, Israel occupied Hebron. In 1997, in accordance with the Hebron Agreement, Israel withdrew from 80 per cent of Hebron which was handed over to the Palestinian Authority. Palestinian police would assume responsibilities in Area H1 and Israel would retain control in Area H2.\n\nAn international unarmed observer force—the Temporary International Presence in Hebron (TIPH) was subsequently established to help the normalization of the situation and to maintain a buffer between the Palestinian Arab population of the city and the Jewish population residing in their enclave in the old city.\n\nHebron was the one city excluded from the interim agreement of September 1995 to restore rule over all Palestinian West Bank cities to the Palestinian Authority. Since The Oslo Agreement, violent episodes have been recurrent in the city. The Cave of the Patriarchs massacre took place on February 25, 1994 when Baruch Goldstein, an Israeli physician and resident of Kiryat Arba, opened fire on Muslims at prayer in the Ibrahimi Mosque, killing 29, and wounding 125 before the survivors overcame and killed him. Standing orders for Israeli soldiers on duty in Hebron disallowed them from firing on fellow Jews, even if they were shooting Arabs. This event was condemned by the Israeli Government, and the extreme right-wing Kach party was banned as a result. The Israeli government also tightened restrictions on the movement of Palestinians in H2, closed their vegetable and meat markets, and banned Palestinian cars on Al-Shuhada Street. The park near the Cave of the Patriarchs for recreation and barbecues is off-limits for Arab Hebronites.\n\nOver the period of the First Intifada and Second Intifada, the Jewish community was subjected to attacks by Palestinian militants, especially during the periods of the intifadas; which saw 3 fatal stabbings and 9 fatal shootings in between the first and second Intifada (0.9% of all fatalities in Israel and the West Bank) and 17 fatal shootings (9 soldiers and 8 settlers) and 2 fatalities from a bombing during the second Intifada, and thousands of rounds fired on it from the hills above the Abu-Sneina and Harat al-Sheikh neighbourhoods. 12 Israeli soldiers were killed (Hebron Brigade commander Colonel Dror Weinberg and two other officers, 6 soldiers and 3 members of the security unit of Kiryat Arba) in an ambush. Two Temporary International Presence in Hebron observers were killed by Palestinian gunmen in a shooting attack on the road to Hebron On March 27, 2001, a Palestinian sniper targeted and killed the Jewish baby Shalhevet Pass. The sniper was caught in 2002.\n\nIn the 1980s Hebron, became the center of the Kach movement, a designated terrorist organization, whose first operations started there, and provided a model for similar behaviour in other settlements. Hebron is one of the three West Bank towns from where the majority of suicide bombers originate. In May 2003, three students of the Hebron Polytechnic University carried out three separate suicide attacks. In August 2003, in what both Islamic groups described as a retaliation, a 29-year-old preacher from Hebron, Raed Abdel-Hamed Mesk, broke a unilateral Palestinian ceasefire by killing 23 and injured over 130 in a bus bombing in Jerusalem.\n\nIsraeli organization B'Tselem states that there have been \"grave violations\" of Palestinian human rights in Hebron because of the \"presence of the settlers within the city.\" The organization cites regular incidents of \"almost daily physical violence and property damage by settlers in the city\", curfews and restrictions of movement that are \"among the harshest in the Occupied Territories\", and violence by Israeli border policemen and the IDF against Palestinians who live in the city's H2 sector. According to Human Rights Watch, Palestinian areas of Hebron are frequently subject to indiscriminate firing by the IDF, leading to many casualties. One former IDF soldier, with experience in policing Hebron, has testified to Breaking the Silence, that on the briefing wall of his unit a sign describing their mission aim was hung that read: \"To disrupt the routine of the inhabitants of the neighbourhood.\" Hebron mayor Mustafa Abdel Nabi invited the Christian Peacemaker Teams to assist the local Palestinian community in opposition to what they describe as Israeli military occupation, collective punishment, settler harassment, home demolitions and land confiscation.\nA violent episode occurred on 2 May 1980, when 6 yeshiva students died, on the way home from Sabbath prayer at the Tomb of the Patriarchs, in a grenade and firearm attack. The event provided a major motivation for settlers near Hebron to join the Jewish Underground. On July 26, 1983, Israeli settlers attacked the Islamic University and shot three people dead and injured over thirty others.\n\nThe 1994 Shamgar Commission of Inquiry concluded that Israeli authorities had consistently failed to investigate or prosecute crimes committed by settlers against Palestinians. Hebron IDF commander Noam Tivon said that his foremost concern is to \"ensure the security of the Jewish settlers\" and that Israeli \"soldiers have acted with the utmost restraint and have not initiated any shooting attacks or violence.\"\n\nThe Old Town of Hebron was a declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO on 7 July 2017, but caused outrage by Israeli officials when the World Heritage Committee declared it a Palestinian World Heritage Site instead of an Israeli or Jewish one.\n\nThe most famous historic site in Hebron is the Cave of the Patriarchs. The Herodian era structure is said to enclose the tombs of the biblical Patriarchs and Matriarchs. The Isaac Hall now serves as the Ibrahimi mosque, while the Abraham and Jacob Hall serve as a synagogue. The tombs of other biblical figures (Abner ben Ner, Otniel ben Kenaz, Ruth and Jesse) are also located in the city.\n\nThe Oak of Sibta (Oak of Abraham) is an ancient tree which, in non-Jewish tradition, is said to mark the place where Abraham pitched his tent. The Russian Orthodox Church owns the site and the nearby Abraham's Oak Holy Trinity Monastery, consecrated in 1925.\n\nHebron is one of the few cities to have preserved its Mamluk architecture. Many structures were built during the period, especially Sufi zawiyas. Mosques from the era include the Sheikh Ali al-Bakka and Al-Jawali mosque. The early Ottoman Abraham Avinu Synagogue in the city's historic Jewish quarter was built in 1540 and restored in 1738.\n\nSome Jewish traditions regarding Adam place him in Hebron after his expulsion from Eden. Another has Cain kill Abel there. A third has Adam and Eve buried in the cave of Machpelah. A Jewish-Christian tradition had it that Adam was formed from the red clay of the field of Damascus, near Hebron. During the Middle Ages, pilgrims and the inhabitants of Hebron would eat the red earth as a charm against misfortune. Others report that the soil was harvested for export as a precious medicinal spice in Egypt, Arabia, Ethiopia and India and that the earth refilled after every digging. Legend also tells that Noah planted his vineyard on Mount Hebron.\nIn medieval Christian tradition, Hebron was one of the three cities where Elizabeth lived. It is thus possibly the birthplace of John the Baptist.\n\nOne Islamic tradition has it that the Prophet alighted in Hebron during his night journey from Mecca to Jerusalem, and the mosque in the city is said to conserve one of his shoes. Another tradition states that the prophet Muhammad arranged for Hebron and its surrounding villages to become part of Tamim al-Dari's domain; this was implemented during Umar's reign as caliph. According to the arrangement, al-Dari and his descendants were only permitted to tax the residents for their land and the \"waqf\" of the Ibrahimi Mosque was entrusted to them.\n\nThe \"simat al-Khalil\" or \"Table of Abraham\" is attested to in the writings of the 11th century Persian traveller Nasir-i Khusraw. According to the account, this early Islamic food distribution center — which predates the Ottoman \"imarets\" — gave all visitors to Hebron a loaf of bread, a bowl of lentils in olive oil, and some raisins.\n\nHebron is twinned with:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27752338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27752338", "title": "Hector C. Macpherson", "text": "Hector C. Macpherson\n\nHector Carsewell Macpherson (16 October 1851 – 17 October 1924) was a prolific Scottish writer and journalist who published books, pamphlets and articles on history, biography, politics, religion, and other subjects.\n\nHe was born in Glasgow on 16 October 1851. As a boy, he lived with his grandparents in Alexandria, West Dunbartonshire, and when he left school at fourteen he joined his father in Glasgow. He did not settle there and when he returned to his grandparent's home, he found work in the office of Dalmonach Print Works in Alexandria. Between the ages of 18 and 21, he embarked on a rigorous course of self-education using the library of the Vale of Leven Mechanics' Institute in Alexandria. He began with the study of Thomas Carlyle and passed on to Mill, Spencer, Arnold and other intellectual giants. At this Institute, he received a prize for best essay, which was entitled \"The Natural Business Relations Between Employer an Employed.\" \n\nIn 1876, he had a series of articles published in the local newspaper, the \"Dumbarton Herald\", which were anonymous character sketches of local clergy. When his identity was revealed to the manager of the printing works, he was eventually forced to leave his job. However, in 1877 he had a successful interview with the \"Edinburgh Evening News\" and moved to Edinburgh thereafter. In 1880, he married Mary Janet Copland. His son and grandson were also named Hector Macpherson, thus causing much confusion. His son, Hector Copland Macpherson (1888–1956), a Church of Scotland minister, had books published on astronomy and the Covenanters and these are often mistaken for his father's.\n\n\nMacpherson's first literary publication was a pamphlet entitled \"The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone: His Political Career\", which was published in June 1892 by Andrew Eliot. Gladstone wrote him a letter of appreciation as a result. Macpherson also corresponded with Herbert Spencer who expressed surprise that he was able to write a book on Thomas Carlyle while being sympathetic with Spencer's views. Spencer regarded Carlyle's work as being \"utterly antagonistic\" to his own and he said that \"on one occasion he [Carlyle] called me 'an immeasurable ass'.\" \n\nMacpherson's son suggests that his father's \"own creed was a blend of what may be called the Carlylean and the Spencerian thought, combining the moral fire of the one with the scientific orderliness and logical precision of the other.\" He gives us no further details concerning how this remarkable combination was achieved. However, Macpherson in his own \"Thomas Carlyle\" book attempts to reconcile the disparate views of Carlyle and Spencer. For instance, he suggests that Carlyle's 'might is right' view may be equated with Spencer's 'survival of the fittest' view.\n\nOther works include:\n\n\nMacpherson's politics were overwhelmingly Liberal and he gave unstinting support to successive Liberal governments. He argued vehemently against the jingoism of Rudyard Kipling, regarding him as \"a foe to civilisation\" who \"pandered to the innate brutality of the Anglo-Saxon race\". In 1901, he was involved in negotiations in the Netherlands with Boer leaders concerning the South African War. Paul Kruger told him that he didn't blame the Queen for the war: it was all Rhodes' fault. \n\nIn 1908, he published a remarkable 42-page pamphlet entitled \"The Gospel of Socialism\" arguing in depth against socialism and communism. Winston Churchill wrote a foreword to that pamphlet in which he argues that liberalism rather than socialism is the answer. Churchill finishes by saying: \"They wish to reconstruct the world. They begin by leaving out human nature.\"\n\nMacpherson's son informs us that his father was a \"convinced Theist. He sat loose to dogma, and stood for freedom of thought in matters theological.\" ... \"In private life my father was a devout believer in spiritual realities. Very firm was his belief in the overruling care of a Heavenly Father and in the immortality of the soul. But to him religion and life were one indivisible whole. His religion may be summed up in a real endeavour 'to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly' with his God.\" Macpherson certainly had a great interest in the history and development of religion in Scotland as evidenced by his books below.\n\nMacpherson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in March 1924, shortly before he died. His proposers were Rev Thomas Burns, Sir David Paulin, James Young Simpson, Alexander Gault and his son, Hector Copland Macpherson (who had been elected in 1917).\n\nHector C. Macpherson died on 17 October 1924 and was buried in Grange Cemetery in Edinburgh.\n\nA simple marker on his grave lies in the south-west extension to the main cemetery. His wife, Mary Janet Copland (d.1925) lies with him. They were parents to Hector Copland Macpherson FRSE (1888-1955).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58024185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58024185", "title": "Hlonipha Mokoena", "text": "Hlonipha Mokoena\n\nHlonipha Mokoena is a South African historian at the Wits Institute for Social and Economic Research of the University of the Witwatersrand. She is a specialist is South African intellectual history. She formerly worked in the anthropology department at Columbia University. She received her PhD from the University of Cape Town in 2005. Her book, \"Magema Fuze: The Making of a Kholwa Intellectual\", is about Magema Magwaza Fuze, the first Zulu-speaker to publish a book in the language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10174273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10174273", "title": "Indalecio Liévano", "text": "Indalecio Liévano\n\nIndalecio Liévano Aguirre (24 July 191729 March 1982) was a Colombian politician and diplomat, who as the 17th Permanent Representative of Colombia to the United Nations served as the 33rd President of the United Nations General Assembly in 1978. He also served as Colombia's Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister Plenipotentiary to Cuba.\n\n"}
{"id": "10308760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10308760", "title": "Isacque Graeber", "text": "Isacque Graeber\n\nIsacque (Isaac) Graeber (August 29, 1905 – 1984) was a sociologist, Jewish historian, and author. He authored several books and numerous papers ranging in subject matters from Jewish-Gentile relations to Jewish Education. He studied at Columbia University and University of Pennsylvania. During his long career he served as director of the College of Jewish Studies in Kansas City, and Director of Education to the Jewish community of Akron, Ohio.\n\nIsacque Graeber was born August 29, 1905 in Warsaw, Congress Poland, Russian Empire of ethnic Jewish parents. He earned a PhD, however the title or topic of his dissertation is unknown. He emigrated in 1921 and by the late 20s he began contributing articles to various journals, and by 1935 was working on his book titled, \"Jews in a Gentile World.\"\n\nAs a staunch opponent of fascism, Graeber was active in the Communist Party USA-sponsored League of American Writers and attended the organization's second congress in 1937.\n\nIn 1941, Graeber was temporarily employed by Max Horkheimer's Institute of Social Research (through Franz L. Neumann) as an agent to solicit funding on commission from wealthy Jews for the Institute's project on anti-Semitism, which eventually became the \"Studies in Prejudice\" series sponsored by the American Jewish Committee.\n\nGraeber was a Fellow of the Rockefeller Foundation served as professor of Jewish studies at Columbia University and was a professor of sociology at Yeshiva University. He was also on the staff of the Jewish Education Committee of New York.\n\nGraeber contributed to journals like \"Judaism\", \"Jewish Life\", \"The Jewish Forum\" and \"Jewish Education\". As well as to non-Jewish journals like \"Social Research\" and \"Panorama.\"\n\nIn 1942 he edited and published the seminal\"Jews in a Gentile World,\" a collection of essays by eighteen widely published experts in sociology, anthropology, psychology, political science, economics, history, and philosophy who contributed objective examinations of the problems of anti-Semitism. The authors utilized social science findings to analyze practical issues that face both Jew and non-Jew. The book also included his own essay.\n\nContributors included Carleton S. Coon Professor of Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania, Talcott Parsons Harvard University Carl Joachim Friedrich Harvard University and Everett V. Stonequist, Skidmore College.\n\nHe wrote on many topics, however most of his focus was on Jewish topics. Titles of his articles include \"The Financial Role of Jews in America,\" \"An Examination of Theories of Race Prejudice,\" and \"The Alliance Israelite Universelle: A Historical Evaluation.\"\n\nIn 1946 he published a pamphlet titled \"The Truth About Anti-Semitism\" which was a call for the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine.\n\nHe also authored a textbook titled \"The History of Zionism\" which was prepared for the use by \"Zionist study circles\". It was published by the Zionist Organization of America.\n\nIsacque Graeber died in 1984.\n"}
{"id": "1791505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791505", "title": "John Clapham (economic historian)", "text": "John Clapham (economic historian)\n\n]\nProfessor Sir John Harold Clapham, CBE, LittD, FBA (13 September 1873 – 29 March 1946) was a British economic historian.\n\nHe was educated at The Leys School in Cambridge and King's College, Cambridge. From 1889 to 1902 he was a lecturer in History and Economics at Leeds University and was Professor of Economics there from 1902 to 1908. He was the first Professor of Economic History at Cambridge University from 1928 to 1938, and Vice-Provost of King's College, Cambridge from 1933 until 1943 when he received a knighthood.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1938 he published, in three volumes, \"An Economic History of Modern Britain\". He is also recognised for his study of the Industrial Revolution in England, and for describing cooperatives in the initiation of the revolution. He is also remembered for his 1944 \"The Bank of England, A History\".\n\nWelsh economic historian Sir John Habakkuk was one of his students. One of Clapham's more notable quotations is: \"Economic advance is not the same thing as human progress\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25072318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25072318", "title": "Juntas Generales", "text": "Juntas Generales\n\nThe Juntas Generales (Batzar Nagusiak in Basque) are representative assemblies in the Southern Basque Country that go back to the 14th century. The three main Juntas Generals in the Basque Country were - and are - the \"Juntas Generales of Biscay\", the \"Juntas Generales of Gipuzkoa\" and the \"Juntas Generales of Álava\". The equivalent in Navarre was the Cortes—or \"The Three States\", roughly House of the Commons—to become the present-day Parliament of Navarre.\n\nThey were part of an early form of democratic institutions. At the local level, the heads of households (male or female) would meet on Sundays after church at the church door in a meeting called elizate (or \"anteiglesia\" in Spanish) to debate and decide on local issues. An elizate in turn would elect someone to represent the local community at the \"juntas\", which existed from the district level right up to the provincial Juntas Generales.\n\nLittle is known about the historical background of these local and regional institutions prior to the 14th century. Broadly speaking, two historical periods can be distinguished:\n\nAfter the First Carlist War, the fueros were much weakened and eventually fully abolished after the Second Carlist War in 1876. Although the Spanish Government of the time established the \"conciertos económicos\" involving low taxes, protective tariffs and self-collection of taxes, Madrid demolished Basque institutions including the Juntas Generales.\n\nFollowing the Spanish transition to democracy in the 1970s the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country re-instated the Juntas Generales in Biscay, Gipuzkoa and Álava in 1979.\n\nUnlike the other Basque provinces, Navarre had evolved into the Kingdom of Navarre and had developed to a large extent feudal traditions and institutions in line with other European kingdoms of the time. As a result, it was largely excluded from the development of such early democratic institutions. However, the royal authority was but one layer of the governmental institutions, and the latter—\"diputacion\" or government council, \"The Three States\" (Cortes)—were based on the Navarrese charters stemming from similar values, traditions and institutions to the other Basque regions. \n\nIt did have a charter however, the 1841 \"Ley Paccionada de Fueros\" which Navarre managed to protect when the fueros of Biscay, Gipuzkoa and Álava were abolished in 1879.\n\nBoth historically and currently, the Juntas Generales of Biscay are based in Gernika-Lumo, at the famous Casa de Juntas. Prior to the abolition of the foral laws and the Juntas Generales of Biscay, the Basque señoríos met under the Oak of Gernika to swear they would respect the ancient laws of Biscay.\n\nOf all historical Juntas Generales, this is perhaps the most widely known and important one as it was in Gernika the Spanish monarchs were required to swear to uphold the Basque freedoms since the incorporation of Biscay and Gipuzkoa into the Kingdom of Castile from 1200 onwards.\n\nThe modern Juntas Generales of Biscay were re-instated in 1979 and form a unicameral assembly. Its 51 (90 in 1979 only) members, the \"batzarkideak\" (in Basque) or \"apoderados\" (in Spanish), are elected by the people of Biscay every four years alongside the municipal elections.\n\nTheir duties are to:\n\nThe party political composition since 1979 has been as follows:\n\nThe lehendakari of the Juntas Generales of Biscay has hailed from the Basque Nationalist Party (PNV) since 1987:\nIs the Representative Assambly of Alava. It has 51 representatives. The Lehendakari is Ramiro Gonzalez from EAJ-PNV, with 13 representatives. The leader of the Opposition is Marta Alaña from PP. The next parties with deputies are EH Bildu, Podemos, PSE-EE, Irabazi and Ciudadanos.\n\nOther Lehendakaris were Fernando Buesa (PSE-EE), Ramon Rabanera and Javier de Andres (PP) and Xabier Aguirre (EAJ-PNV).\n\nWhile they were overall less widely known due to the northern districts—Labourd, Lower Navarre, Soule—falling behind in terms of economic development, they also had assemblies that were largely independent of those of the French state and held charters - the \"fors\", the northern equivalent of the \"fueros\". Their powers and sovereignty were gradually curtailed by the French Crown, notably in 1620 and 1659-1660 following the Treaty of the Pyrenees, but remained in place and relevant (e.g. the \"Biltzar\" of Labourd) about decisions affecting regional life until the Napoleonic period (1790).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80777", "title": "Kurdistan", "text": "Kurdistan\n\nKurdistan (; ; lit. \"region of Kurds\") or Greater Kurdistan is a roughly defined geo-cultural historical region wherein the Kurdish people form a prominent majority population and Kurdish culture, languages and national identity have historically been based. Kurdistan roughly encompasses the northwestern Zagros and the eastern Taurus mountain ranges. The territory corresponds to Kurdish irredentist claims.\n\nContemporary use of the term refers to the following areas: southeastern Turkey (Northern Kurdistan), northern Iraq (Southern Kurdistan), northwestern Iran (Eastern Kurdistan) and northern Syria (Rojava or Western Kurdistan). Some Kurdish nationalist organizations seek to create an independent nation state consisting of some or all of these areas with a Kurdish majority, while others campaign for greater autonomy within the existing national boundaries.\n\nIraqi Kurdistan first gained autonomous status in a 1970 agreement with the Iraqi government, and its status was re-confirmed as an autonomous entity within the federal Iraqi republic in 2005. There is a province by the name \"Kurdistan\" in Iran; it is not self-ruled. Kurds fighting in the Syrian Civil War were able to take control of large sections of northern Syria as government forces, loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, withdrew to fight elsewhere. Having established their own government, they called for autonomy in a federal Syria after the war.\n\nThe exact origins of the name \"Kurd\" are unclear. The suffix -\"stan\" (Persian: ـستان‎, \"stân\") is Persian for region. Literal translation \"Region of Kurds\"\n\n\"Kurdistan\" was also formerly spelled \"Curdistan\". One of the ancient names of Kurdistan is \"Corduene\".\n\nVarious groups, among them the Guti, Hurrians, Mannai (Mannaeans), and Armenians, lived in this region in antiquity. The original Mannaean homeland was situated east and south of the Lake Urmia, roughly centered around modern-day Mahabad. The region came under Persian rule during the reign of Cyrus the Great and Darius I.\n\nThe Kingdom of Corduene, which emerged from the declining Seleucid Empire, was located to the south and south-east of Lake Van between Persia and Mesopotamia and ruled northern Mesopotamia and southeastern Anatolia from 189 BC to AD 384 as vassals of the vying Parthian and Roman Empire. Corduene became a vassal state of the Roman Republic in 66 BC and remained allied with the Romans until AD 384. After 66 BC, it passed another 5 times between Rome and Persia. Corduene was situated to the east of Tigranocerta, that is, to the east and south of present-day Diyarbakır in south-eastern Turkey.\n\nSome historians have correlated a connection between Corduene with the modern names of Kurds and Kurdistan; \"T. A. Sinclair\" dismissed this identification as false, while a common association is asserted in the \"Columbia Encyclopedia\".\n\nSome of the ancient districts of Kurdistan and their corresponding modern names:\n\nOne of the earliest records of the phrase \"land of the Kurds\" is found in an Assyrian Christian document of late antiquity, describing the stories of Assyrian saints of the Middle East, such as Abdisho. When the Sasanian Marzban asked Mar Abdisho about his place of origin, he replied that according to his parents, they were originally from \"Hazza,\" a village in Assyria. However they were later driven out of Hazza by pagans, and settled in \"Tamanon,\" which according to Abdisho was in the \"land of the Kurds.\" Tamanon lies just north of the modern Iraq-Turkey border, while Hazza is 12 km southwest of modern Erbil. In another passage in the same document, the region of the Khabur River is also identified as \"land of the Kurds\". According to Al-Muqaddasi and Yaqut al-Hamawi, Tamanon was located on the south-western or southern slopes of Mount Judi and south of Cizre. Other geographical references to the Kurds in Syriac sources appear in Zuqnin chronicle, writings of Michael the Syrian and Bar hebraeus. They mention the mountains of Qardu, city of Qardu and country of Qardawaye.\n\nIn the tenth and eleventh centuries, several Kurdish principalities emerged in the region: in the north the Shaddadids (951–1174) (in east Transcaucasia between the Kur and Araxes rivers) and the Rawadids (955–1221) (centered on Tabriz and which controlled all of Azarbaijan), in the east the Hasanwayhids (959–1015) (in Zagros between Shahrizor and Khuzistan) and the Annazids (990–1116) (centered in Hulwan) and in the west the Marwanids (990–1096) to the south of Diyarbakır and north of Jazira.\n\nKurdistan in the Middle Ages was a collection of semi-independent and independent states called emirates. It was nominally under indirect political or religious influence of Khalifs or Shahs. A comprehensive history of these states and their relationship with their neighbors is given in the text of \"Sharafnama\", written by Prince Sharaf al-Din Bitlisi in 1597. The emirates included Baban, Soran, Badinan and Garmiyan in the south; Bakran, Bohtan (or Botan) and Badlis in the north, and Mukriyan and Ardalan in the east.\n\nThe earliest medieval attestation of the toponym \"Kurdistan\" is found in a 12th-century Armenian historical text by Matteos Urhayeci. He described a battle near Amid and Siverek in 1062 as to have taken place in \"Kurdistan\". The second record occurs in the prayer from the colophon of an Armenian manuscript of the Gospels, written in 1200.\n\nA later use of the term \"Kurdistan\" is found in Empire of Trebizond documents in 1336 and in \"Nuzhat-al-Qulub\", written by Hamdollah Mostowfi in 1340.\n\nAccording to Sharafkhan Bitlisi in his Sharafnama, the boundaries of the Kurdish land begin at the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf and stretch on an even line to the end of Malatya and Marash. Evliya Çelebi, who traveled in Kurdistan between 1640 and 1655, mentioned different districts of Kurdistan including Erzurum, Van, Hakkari, Cizre, Imaddiya, Mosul, Shahrizor, Harir, Ardalan, Baghdad, Derne, Derteng, until Basra.\n\nIn the 16th century, after prolonged wars, Kurdish-inhabited areas were split between the Safavid and Ottoman empires. A major division of Kurdistan occurred in the aftermath of the Battle of Chaldiran in 1514, and was formalized in the 1639 Treaty of Zuhab. From then until the aftermath of World War I, Kurdish areas (including most of Mesopotamia, eastern Anatolia, and traditionally Kurdish northeastern Syria) were generally under Ottoman rule, apart from the century-long, intermittent Iranian occupation in the early modern to modern period, and the later reconquest and vast expansion by the Iranian military leader Nader Shah in the first half of the 18th century. After the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, the Allies contrived to split Kurdistan (as detailed in the ultimately unratified Treaty of Sèvres) among several countries, including Kurdistan, Armenia and others. However, the reconquest of these areas by the forces of Kemal Atatürk (and other pressing issues) caused the Allies to accept the renegotiated Treaty of Lausanne (1923) and the borders of the modern Republic of Turkey, leaving the Kurds without a self-ruled region. Other Kurdish areas were assigned to the new British and French mandated states of Iraq and Syria.\n\nAt the San Francisco Peace Conference of 1945, the Kurdish delegation proposed consideration of territory claimed by the Kurds, which encompassed an area extending from the Mediterranean shores near Adana to the shores of the Persian Gulf near Bushehr, and included the Lur inhabited areas of southern Zagros.\n\nAt the end of the First Gulf War, the Allies established a safe haven in northern Iraq. Amid the withdrawal of Iraqi forces from three northern provinces, Iraqi Kurdistan emerged in 1992 as an autonomous entity inside Iraq with its own local government and parliament.\n\nA 2010 US report, written before the instability in Syria and Iraq that exists as of 2014, attested that \"Kurdistan may exist by 2030\". The weakening of the Iraqi state following the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant has also presented an opportunity for independence for Iraqi Kurdistan, augmented by Turkey's move towards acceptance of such a state although it opposes moves toward Kurdish autonomy in Turkey and Syria.\n\nThe incorporation into Turkey of the Kurdish-inhabited regions of eastern Anatolia was opposed by many Kurds, and has resulted in a long-running separatist conflict in which thousands of lives have been lost. The region saw several major Kurdish rebellions, including the Koçgiri rebellion of 1920 under the Ottomans, then successive insurrections under the Turkish state, including the 1924 Sheikh Said rebellion, the Republic of Ararat in 1927, and the 1937 Dersim rebellion. All were forcefully put down by the authorities. The region was declared a closed military area from which foreigners were banned between 1925 and 1965.\n\nIn an attempt to deny their existence, the Turkish government categorized Kurds as \"Mountain Turks\" until 1991; The words \"Kurds\", \"Kurdistan\", or \"Kurdish\" were officially banned by the Turkish government. Following the military coup of 1980, the Kurdish language was officially prohibited in public and private life. Many people who spoke, published, or sang in Kurdish were arrested and imprisoned. Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, political parties that represented Kurdish interests were banned.\n\nIn 1983, the Kurdish provinces were placed under martial law in response to the activities of the militant separatist organization the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). A guerrilla war took place through the 1980s and 1990s in which much of the countryside was evacuated, thousands of Kurdish-populated villages were destroyed by the government, and numerous summary executions were carried out by both sides. Many villages were set on fire. Food embargoes were placed on Kurdish villages and towns. More than 20,000 Kurds were killed in the violence and hundreds of thousands more were forced to leave their homes.\n\nTurkey has historically feared that a Kurdish state in Northern Iraq would encourage and support Kurdish separatists in the adjacent Turkish provinces, and have therefore historically strongly opposed Kurdish independence in Iraq. However, following the chaos in Iraq after the US invasion, Turkey has increasingly worked with the autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government.\n\nThe successful 2014 Northern Iraq offensive by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, with the resultant weakening of the ability of the Iraqi state to project power, also presented a \"golden opportunity\" for the Kurds to increase their independence and possibly declare an independent Kurdish state. The Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, who took more than 80 Turkish persons captive in Mosul during their offensive, is an enemy of Turkey, making Kurdistan useful for Turkey as a buffer state. On Hüseyin Çelik, a spokesman for the ruling AK party, made comments to the Financial Times indicating Turkey's readiness to accept an independent Kurdistan in northern Iraq. Various sources have reported that Al-Nusra has issued a fatwā calling for Kurdish women and children in Syria to be killed, and the fighting in Syria has led tens of thousands of refugees to flee to Iraq's Kurdistan region. As of 2015, Turkey is actively supporting the Al-Nusra, but as of January 2017, Turkey's foreign ministry has said that Al-Nusra is a terrorist group and has acted accordingly.\n\nThe Kurds are a people of Indo-European origin. They speak an Iranian language known as Kurdish, and comprise the majority of the population of the region – however, included therein are Arab, Armenian, Assyrian, Azerbaijani, Jewish, Ossetian, Persian, and Turkish communities. Most inhabitants are Muslim, but adherents to other religions are present as well – including Yarsanism, Yazidis, Alevis, Christians, and in the past, Jews, most of whom immigrated to Israel.\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", Kurdistan covers about 190,000 km², and its chief towns are Diyarbakır (Amed), Bitlis (Bedlîs) and Van (Wan) in Turkey, Erbil (Hewlêr) and Slemani in Iraq, and Kermanshah (Kirmanşan), Sanandaj (Sine), Ilam and Mahabad (Mehabad) in Iran. According to the Encyclopaedia of Islam, Kurdistan covers around 190,000 km² in Turkey, 125,000 km² in Iran, 65,000 km² in Iraq, and 12,000 km² in Syria, with a total area of approximately 392,000 km².\n\nIraqi Kurdistan is divided into six governorates, three of which (and parts of others) are under the control of the Kurdistan Regional Government. Iranian Kurdistan encompasses Kurdistan Province and the greater parts of West Azerbaijan, Kermanshah, and Īlām provinces. Syrian Kurdistan (Kurdish: Rojavayê Kurdistanê) is located primarily in northern Syria, and covers the province of Al Hasakah and northern Raqqa Governorate, northern Aleppo Governorate and also Jabal al-Akrad (Mountain of the Kurds) region. The major cities in this region are Qamishli (Kurdish: Qamişlo) and Al Hasakah (Kurdish: Hasakah).\n\nTurkish Kurdistan encompasses a large area of Eastern Anatolia Region and southeastern Anatolia of Turkey and it is home to an estimated 6 to 8 million Kurds. There are another 9 to 12 million Turkish citizens of Kurdish descent in predominantly Turkish regions of Turkey as the majority of Turkish Kurds no longer live in Southeastern Anatolia.\n\nIn \"A Dictionary of Scripture Geography\" (published 1846), John Miles describes Upper and Lower Kurdistan as following:\n\nThe northern, northwestern and northeastern parts of Kurdistan are referred to as upper Kurdistan, and includes the areas from west of Amed to lake Urmia.\n\nThe lowlands of southern Kurdistan are called lower Kurdistan. The main cities in this area are Kirkuk and Arbil.\n\nMuch of the region is typified by a continental climate – hot in the summer, cold in the winter. Despite this, much of the region is fertile and has historically exported grain and livestock. Precipitation varies between 200 and 400 mm a year in the plains, and between 700 and 3,000 mm a year on the high plateau between mountain chains. The climate is dominated by mountains in the zone along the border with Iran and Turkey, with dry summers, rainy and sometimes snowy winters, and damp springs, while to the south it progressively transitions towards semi-arid and desert zones. The northern mountainous regions along the border with Iran and Turkey receive heavy snowfall and they are more of an extreme version of the continental climate.\n\nKurdistan is one of the most mountainous regions in the world with a cold climate receiving annual precipitation adequate to sustain temperate forests and shrubs. Mountain chains harbor pastures and forested valleys, totaling approximately 16 million hectares (160,000 km²), including firs and countryside is mostly oaks, conifers, platanus, willow, poplar and, to the west of Kurdistan, olive trees. The region north of the mountainous region on the border with Iran and Turkey features meadow grasses and such wild trees as poplar, willow and oak, hawthorn, cherry plum, rose hips, mountain apple, pear, mountain ash, and olive. The steppe and desert in the south, by contrast, have such species as palm trees and date palm.\n\nAnimals found in the region include the Syrian brown bear, wild boar, gray wolf, the golden jackal, Indian crested porcupine, the red fox, goitered gazelle, Eurasian otter, striped hyena, Persian fallow deer, long-eared hedgehog, onager, mangar and the Euphrates softshell turtle. Birds include, the hooded crow, common starling, Eurasian magpie, European robin, water pipit, spotted flycatcher, namaqua dove, saker falcon, griffon vulture, little crake and collared pratincole, among others.\n\nMountains are important geographical and symbolic features of Kurdish life, as evidenced by the saying \"Kurds have no friends but the mountains.\" Mountains are regarded as sacred by the Kurds. Included in the region are Mount Judi and Ararat (both prominent in Kurdish folklore), Zagros, Qandil, Shingal, Mount Abdulaziz, Kurd Mountains, Jabal al-Akrad, Shaho, Gabar, Hamrin, and Nisir.\n\nThe plateaus and mountains of Kurdistan, which are characterized by heavy rain and snow fall, act as a water reservoir for the Near and Middle East, forming the source of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, as well as other numerous smaller rivers, such as the Little Khabur, Khabur, Tharthar, Ceyhan, Araxes, Kura, Sefidrud, Karkha, and Hezil. Among rivers of historical importance to Kurds are the Murat (Arasān) and Buhtān rivers in Turkey; the Peshkhābur, the Little Zab, the Great Zab, and the Diyala in Iraq; and the Jaghatu (Zarrinarud), the Tātā'u (Siminarud), the Zohāb (Zahāb), and the Gāmāsiyāb in Iran.\n\nThese rivers, which flow from heights of three to four thousand meters above sea level, are significant both as water sources and for the production of energy. Iraq and Syria dammed many of these rivers and their tributaries, and Turkey has an extensive dam system under construction as part of the GAP (Southeast Anatolia Project); though incomplete, the GAP already supplies a significant proportion of Turkey's electrical energy needs. Due to the extraordinary archaeological richness of the region, almost any dam impacts historic sites.\n\nKurdistan extends to Lake Urmia in Iran on the east. The region includes Lake Van, the largest body of water in Turkey; the only lake in the Middle East with a larger surface is Lake Urmia – though not nearly as deep as Lake Van, which has a much larger volume. Urmia, Van, as well as Zarivar Lake west of Marivan, and Lake Dukan near the city of Sulaymaniyah, are frequented by tourists.\n\nKRG-controlled parts of Iraqi Kurdistan are estimated to contain around of oil, making it the sixth largest reserve in the world. Extraction of these reserves began in 2007.\n\nAl-Hasakah province, also known as Jazira region, has geopolitical importance of oil and is suitable for agricultural lands.\n\nIn November 2011, Exxon challenged the Iraqi central government's authority with the signing of oil and gas contracts for exploration rights to six parcels of land in Kurdistan, including one contract in the disputed territories, just east of the Kirkuk mega-field. This act caused Baghdad to threaten to revoke Exxon's contract in its southern fields, most notably the West-Qurna Phase 1 project. Exxon responded by announcing its intention to leave the West-Qurna project.\n\nAs of July 2007, the Kurdish government solicited foreign companies to invest in 40 new oil sites, with the hope of increasing regional oil production over the following five years by a factor of five, to about . Gas and associated gas reserves are in excess of . Notable companies active in Kurdistan include ExxonMobil, Total, Chevron, Talisman Energy, Genel Energy, Hunt Oil, Gulf Keystone Petroleum, and Marathon Oil.\n\nOther mineral resources that exist in significant quantities in the region include coal, copper, gold, iron, limestone (which is used to produce cement), marble, and zinc. The world's largest deposit of rock sulfur is located just southwest of Erbil (Hewlêr).\n\nIn July 2012, Turkey and the Kurdistan Regional Government signed an agreement by which Turkey will supply the KRG with refined petroleum products in exchange for crude oil. Crude deliveries are expected to occur on a regular basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2675033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2675033", "title": "Lawfare", "text": "Lawfare\n\nLawfare is a form of war consisting of the use of the legal system against an enemy, such as by damaging or delegitimizing them, tying up their time or winning a public relations victory. The term is a portmanteau of the words \"law\" and \"warfare\".\n\nPerhaps the first use of the term \"lawfare\" was in the 1975 manuscript \"Whither Goeth the Law\", which argues that the Western legal system has become overly contentious and utilitarian as compared to the more humanitarian, norm-based Eastern system.\n\nA more frequently cited use of the term was Charles J. Dunlap, Jr.'s 2001 essay authored for Harvard's Carr Center. In that essay, Dunlap defines lawfare as \"the use of law as a weapon of war\". He later expanded on the definition, explaining lawfare was \"the exploitation of real, perceived, or even orchestrated incidents of law-of-war violations being employed as an unconventional means of confronting\" a superior military power.\n\nLawfare may involve the law of a nation turned against its own officials, but more recently it has been associated with the spread of universal jurisdiction, that is, one nation or an international organization hosted by that nation reaching out to seize and prosecute officials of another.\n\nColonel Charles Dunlap describes lawfare as \"a method of warfare where law is used as a means of realizing a military objective\". In this sense lawfare may be a more humane substitute for military conflict. Colonel Dunlap considers lawfare overall a \"cynical manipulation of the rule of law and the humanitarian values it represents\".\n\nBenjamin Wittes, Robert Chesney, and Jack Goldsmith employed the word in the name of the Lawfare Blog, which focuses on national security law and which has explored the term and the debate over what lawfare means and whether it should be considered exclusively a pejorative.\n\nBenjamin Wittes, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, has argued that lawfare should not have only a negative connotation, but that it also refers to the sharply contested legal debates in the U.S. surrounding national security, and national security law. Wittes writes, \"The name Lawfare refers both to the use of law as a weapon of conflict and, perhaps more importantly, to the depressing reality that America remains at war with itself over the law governing its warfare with others.\"\n\nThe Lawfare Project argues lawfare is exclusively negative, defining it as \"the \"abuse\" of Western laws and judicial systems to achieve strategic military or political ends\". From this perspective, lawfare consists of \"the negative manipulation of international and national human rights laws to accomplish purposes other than, or contrary to, those for which they were originally enacted\".\n\nIn a 2010 speech on the topic, Lawfare Project Director Brooke Goldstein elaborated:\n\n... lawfare is about more than just delegitimizing a state's right to defend itself; it is about the abuse of the law and our judicial systems to undermine the very principles they stands for: the rule of law, the sanctity of innocent human life, and the right to free speech. Lawfare is not something in which persons engage in the pursuit of justice; it is a negative undertaking and must be defined as such to have any real meaning. Otherwise, we risk diluting the phenomenon and feeding the inability to distinguish between what is the correct application of the law, on the one hand, and what is lawfare, on the other. Because that is the essence of the issue here, how do we distinguish between that which constitutes a constructive, legitimate legal battle (even if the legal battle is against us and inconvenient) from that which is a counterproductive perversion of the law, which should be allocated no precedent? The delineation is not as simple as some may like to make it; that is, that lawsuits against terrorists are good, and legal actions against the U.S. and Israel are bad. Now, the question is not \"who is the target\", but \"what is the intention\" behind the legal action: is it to pursue justice, to apply the law in the interests of freedom and democracy, or is the intent to undermine the system of laws being manipulated?\n\nThe NGO Forum of the 2001 Durban Conference called for the \"establishment of a war crimes tribunal\" against Israel. NGOs have used universal jurisdiction statutes in Europe and North America to bring forward such cases. These statutes allow courts to preside over cases in which one or more of the parties (or events at issue) are foreign. In some countries, such as Spain, an NGO can apply to a court directly for an arrest warrant or to launch a criminal investigation without the knowledge or approval of the government. Many cases have been brought forward against Israeli officials and those associated with Israel's military, accusing them of war crimes. These cases have been heard in both Israel and in other countries.\n\nUS Ambassador John R. Bolton has characterized Palestinian attempts to seek UN recognition for a state as \"lawfare\", because he sees those attempts as delegitimizing Israel.\n\nSome supporters of Israel, such as Shurat HaDin (Israeli Law Centre), have been accused of using \"lawfare\" to get authorities to seize activist ships bound for Gaza (known as the \"Gaza flotilla\").\n\nAccording to Canadian MP and former minister Irwin Cotler, the use of law to delegitimize Israel is present in five areas: United Nations, international law, humanitarian law, the struggle against racism and the struggle against genocide.\n\nJoshua Mintz, writing in \"The Jerusalem Post\" in September 2011, referring to the Israel fears of lawfare, says, \"it's quite possible that Israel, at least within the legal landscape, may actually benefit from the Palestinian statehood bid.\" Douglas Bloomfield writes that \"Palestinian lawfare against Israel could further isolate the Jewish state\" as well as raise issues regarding overseas travel for Israeli leaders who might fear arrest on war crimes charges. In addition, Bloomfield suggested \"if Abbas goes ahead with waging lawfare, he will open a new stage in the conflict that is likely to set back the cause of peace.\"\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" said in an editorial, regarding the Padilla case, \"the lawyers suing for Padilla aren't interested in justice. They're practicing 'lawfare,' which is an effort to undermine the war on terror by making U.S. officials afraid to pursue it for fear of personal liability.\" Padilla was arrested in 2002 for planning to carry out a terror attack within the United States, was convicted and sentenced to prison, but has continued his legal battle via the ACLU and the National Litigation Project at Yale Law School, and his case has been ruled on numerous times.\n\nA notable US official cited in connection with asserted lawfare is Henry Kissinger. Dr. Kissinger faced questioning and possible prosecution in France, again in Brazil, and then in England (the latter initiated by Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garzón) because of Kissinger's involvement as a Nixon Administration official with Operation Condor. Kissinger subsequently opined that universal jurisdiction risks \"substituting the tyranny of judges for that of governments\".\n\nHarvard law professor Jack Goldsmith, known for his scholarship voicing opposition to the expansion of international human rights and universal jurisdiction, reveals in his book \"The Terror Presidency\" that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld was concerned with the possibility of lawfare waged against Bush administration officials, and that Rumsfeld \"could expect to be on top of the list\". Rumsfeld addresses the effects of lawfare in his memoir \"Known and Unknown\".\n\nQuestions remain unresolved of the possibility of lawfare-type prosecution in Italy and Germany of CIA agents involved in international abduction known as extraordinary rendition by the United States, and in Spain before Magistrate Garzón of the Bush Six, American attorneys who created what \"The New York Times\" called \"the legal framework to justify the torture of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay\".\n\nAccording to June Teufel Dreyer, an example of lawfare are the activities of the People's Republic of China in the dispute of maritime borders with several Association of Southeast Asian Nations nations.\n\nAn opinion piece in the New York \"Daily News\" asserts that the United States is already dealing with \"a variety of lawfare stratagems\". In New York, anyone who reports an event as part of the \"If You See Something, Say Something™\" public awareness campaign is \"protected from frivolous lawsuits\" by the \"Freedom to Report Terrorism Act\", and journalists and authors who report on terrorism are protected from lawsuits by the \"Libel Terrorism Protection Act\", as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49701953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49701953", "title": "List of years in Estonian television", "text": "List of years in Estonian television\n\nThis is a list of years in Estonian television.\n\n"}
{"id": "2044294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2044294", "title": "Lost film", "text": "Lost film\n\nA lost film is a feature or short film that is no longer known to exist in any studio archives, private collections, or public archives, such as the U.S. Library of Congress.\n\nDuring most of the 20th century, U.S. copyright law required at least one copy of every American film to be deposited at the Library of Congress, at the time of copyright registration, but the Librarian of Congress was not required to retain those copies: \"Under the provisions of the act of March 4, 1909, authority is granted for the return to the claimant of copyright of such copyright deposits as are not required by the Library.\" Of American silent films, far more have been lost than have survived, and of American sound films made from 1927 to 1950, perhaps half have been lost.\n\nThe phrase \"lost film\" can also be used in a literal sense for instances where footage of deleted scenes, unedited, and alternative versions of feature films are known to have been created, but can no longer be accounted for. Sometimes, a copy of a lost film is rediscovered. A film that has not been recovered in its entirety is called a partially lost film. For example, the 1922 film \"Sherlock Holmes\" was eventually discovered, but some of the footage is still missing.\n\nMost film studios routinely had a still photographer with a large-format camera working on the set during production, taking pictures for potential later publicity use. The high-quality photographic paper prints that resulted – some produced in quantity for display use by theaters, others in smaller numbers for distribution to newspapers and magazines – have preserved imagery from many otherwise lost films. In some cases, such as \"London After Midnight\", the surviving coverage is so extensive that an entire lost film can be reconstructed scene by scene in the form of still photographs. Stills have been used to stand in for missing footage when making new preservation prints of partially lost films.\n\nMost lost films are from the silent film and early talkie era, from about 1894 to 1930. Martin Scorsese's Film Foundation estimates that more than 90% of American films made before 1929 are lost, and the Library of Congress estimates that 75% of all silent films are lost forever.\n\nThe largest cause of silent film loss was intentional destruction, as silent films were perceived as having little or no commercial value after the end of the silent era by 1930. Film preservationist Robert A. Harris has said, \"Most of the early films did not survive because of wholesale junking by the studios. There was no thought of ever saving these films. They simply needed vault space and the materials were expensive to house.\"\n\nMany other early motion pictures are lost because the nitrate film used for nearly all 35 mm negatives and prints made before 1952 is highly flammable. When in very badly deteriorated condition and improperly stored (e.g., in a sun-baked shed), nitrate film can and will spontaneously combust. Fires have destroyed entire archives of films. For example, a storage vault fire in 1937 destroyed all the original negatives of Fox Pictures' pre-1935 films. The 1965 MGM vault fire resulted in the loss of hundreds more silent films and early talkies.\n\nNitrate film is chemically unstable and over time can decay into a sticky mass or a powder akin to gunpowder. This process can be very unpredictable: some nitrate film from the 1890s is still in good condition today, while some much later nitrate had to be scrapped as unsalvageable when it was barely 20 years old. Much depends on the environment in which it is stored. Ideal conditions of low temperature, low humidity, and adequate ventilation can preserve nitrate film for centuries, but in practice, the storage conditions were usually far from ideal. When a film on nitrate base is said to have been \"preserved\", this almost always means simply that it has been copied onto safety film or, more recently, digitized; both methods result in some loss of quality.\n\nEastman Kodak introduced a nonflammable 35 mm film stock in spring 1909. However, the plasticizers used to make the film flexible evaporated too quickly, making the film dry and brittle, causing splices to part and perforations to tear. By 1911, the major American film studios were back to using nitrate stock. \"Safety film\" was relegated to sub-35 mm formats such as 16 mm and 8 mm until improvements were made in the late 1940s.\n\nSome pre-1931 sound films made by Warner Bros. and First National have been lost because they used a sound-on-disc system with a separate soundtrack on special phonograph records. If some of a film's soundtrack discs could not be found in the 1950s when 16 mm sound-on-film reduction prints of early \"talkies\" were being made for inclusion in television syndication packages, that film's chances of survival plummeted: many sound-on-disc films have survived only by way of those 16 mm prints.\n\nBefore the eras of sound film, television and later home video, films were viewed as having little future value when their theatrical runs ended. Thus, many were deliberately destroyed to save the space and cost of storage; many were recycled for their silver content. Many Technicolor two-color negatives from the 1920s and 1930s were thrown out when the studios refused to reclaim their films, still being held by Technicolor in its vaults. Some used prints were sold to scrap dealers and ultimately cut up into short segments for use with small, hand-cranked 35 mm movie projectors, which were sold as a toy for showing brief excerpts from Hollywood movies at home.\n\nAs a consequence of this widespread lack of care, the work of many early filmmakers and performers has made its way to the present in fragmentary form. A high-profile example is the case of Theda Bara. One of the best-known actresses of the early silent era, she made 40 films, but only six are now known to exist. Clara Bow was equally celebrated in her heyday, but 20 of her 57 films are completely lost, and another five are incomplete. Once-popular stage actresses such as Pauline Frederick and Elsie Ferguson, who made the jump to silent films, are now largely forgotten with a minimal archive to represent their careers; fewer than 10 movies exist from Frederick's 1915–1928 work, and Ferguson has just two surviving films, one from 1919 and her only talkie from 1930.\n\nThis is preferable to the fate of the stage actress and Bara rival Valeska Suratt, whose entire film career has been lost. Western hero William Farnum, a Fox player like Bara and Suratt, was one of the screen's big Western actors rivaling the likes of William S. Hart, Tom Mix, and Harry Carey. Farnum has about three of his Fox films extant. Other male performers, such as Francis X. Bushman and William Desmond, had numerous film credits, but films made in their heyday are missing due to junking, neglect, or studios being defunct. Nevertheless, unlike Suratt and Bara, these men continued working into the sound era and even into television, thus their later performances can be observed and appreciated.\n\nOccasional exceptions exist; almost all of Charlie Chaplin's films from his entire career have survived, as well as extensive amounts of unused footage dating back to 1916. The exceptions are \"A Woman of the Sea\" (which he destroyed himself as a tax writeoff) and one of his early Keystone films, \"Her Friend the Bandit\" (see \"Unknown Chaplin\"). The filmography of D. W. Griffith is nearly complete, as many of his early Biograph films were deposited by the company in paper print form at the Library of Congress. Many of Griffith's feature-film works of the 1910s and 1920s found their way to the film collection at the Museum of Modern Art in the 1930s, and were preserved under the auspices of curator Iris Barry. Mary Pickford's filmography is nearly complete: her early years were spent with Griffith, and she gained control of her own productions in the late 1910s and early 1920s. She also backtracked to as many of her Zukor-controlled early Famous Players films as were salvageable. Stars such as Chaplin and Douglas Fairbanks enjoyed stupendous popularity, and their films were reissued over and over throughout the silent era, meaning prints of their films were likely to surface decades later. Pickford, Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, and Cecil B. DeMille were early champions of film preservation, though Lloyd lost a good number of his silent works in a vault fire in the early 1940s.\n\nAn improved 35 mm safety film was introduced in 1949. Since safety film is much more stable than nitrate film, comparatively few films were lost after about 1950. However, color fading of certain color stocks and vinegar syndrome threaten the preservation of films made since about this time.\n\nMost mainstream movies from the 1950s onwards survive today, but several early pornographic films and some B movies are lost. In most cases, these obscure films go unnoticed and unknown, but some films by noted cult directors have been lost, as well:\n\nSome films produced in 1926–1931 using the Vitaphone sound-on-disc system, in which the soundtrack is separate from the film, are now considered lost because the soundtrack discs were lost or destroyed, while the picture elements survive. Conversely, and more commonly, some early sound films survive only as sets of soundtrack discs, with the picture elements completely missing (e.g., 1930's \"The Man from Blankley's\", starring John Barrymore) or surviving only in fragmentary form (e.g., \"Gold Diggers of Broadway\" (1929) and \"The Rogue Song\" (1930), two highly popular and profitable early musicals in two-color Technicolor).\n\nMany stereophonic soundtracks from the early to mid-1950s that were either played in interlock on a 35 mm fullcoat magnetic reel or single-strip magnetic film (such as Fox's four-track magnetic, which became the standard of mag stereophonic sound) are now lost. Films such as \"House of Wax\", \"The Caddy\", \"The War of the Worlds\", \"The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T\", and \"From Here to Eternity\" that were originally available with 3-track, magnetic sound are now available only with a monophonic optical soundtrack. The chemistry behind adhering magnetic particles to the tri-acetate film base eventually caused the autocatalytic breakdown of the film (vinegar syndrome). As long as studios had a monaural optical negative that could be printed, studio executives felt no need to preserve the stereophonic versions of the soundtracks.\n\nOccasionally, prints of films considered lost have been rediscovered. An example is the 1910 version of \"Frankenstein\" which was believed lost for decades until the existence of a print (which had been in the hands of an unwitting collector for years) was discovered in the 1970s. A print of \"Richard III\" (1912) was found in 1996 and restored by the American Film Institute. In 2013, an early Mary Pickford film, \"Their First Misunderstanding\", notable for being the first film in which she was credited by name, was found in a New Hampshire barn and donated to Keene State College.\n\n\"Beyond the Rocks\" (1922) with Gloria Swanson and Rudolph Valentino was considered a lost film for several decades. Swanson lamented the loss of this and other films in her 1980 memoirs, but optimistically concluded, \"I do not believe these films are gone forever\". In 2000, a print was found in the Netherlands and restored by the Nederlands Filmmuseum and the Haghefilm Conservation. It turned up among about 2000 rusty film canisters donated by an eccentric Dutch collector, Joop van Liempd, of Haarlem. It was given its first modern screening in 2005, and has since been aired on Turner Classic Movies.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the 1927 German film \"Metropolis\"—which had been distributed in many different edits over the years—was restored to as close to the original version as possible by reinstating edited footage and using computer technology to repair damaged footage. At that point, however, approximately a quarter of the original film footage was considered lost, according to Kino Video's DVD release of the restored film. On July 1, 2008, Berlin film experts announced that a copy of the film had been discovered in the archives of the film museum Museo del Cine in Buenos Aires, Argentina, which contained all but one of the scenes still missing from the 2002 restoration. The film now has been restored very close to its premiere version. The restoration process is featured in \"Metropolis refundada\" documentary.\n\nIn 2010, digital copies of ten early American films were presented to the Library of Congress by the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Library, the first film installment from the Russian state archives to be repatriated.\n\nTelevision material existing on film has sometimes been recovered. The 1951 pilot of \"I Love Lucy\" was long believed lost, but in 1990 the widow of one of the actors, Pepito Pérez (who played Pepito the Clown), found a copy. It has since been shown on television. Sometimes a film believed lost in its original state has been restored, either through the process of colorization, or other restoration methods. \"\", the original 1964 pilot film for \"\", survived only in a black-and-white print until 1987, when a film archivist found an unmarked (mute) 35mm reel in a Hollywood film laboratory with the negative trims of the unused scenes.\n\nSimilarly, a number of videotaped television programmes, previously thought lost (see wiping) have been recovered as overseas Kinescope film prints from private collectors and various other sources over the years. For example, nine lost episodes of \"Doctor Who\" were discovered in storage at a television broadcasting station in Nigeria in 2013.\n\nSeveral films that would otherwise be entirely lost survive in the form of stock footage used for later films.\n\nThe Universal Pictures feature film \"The Cat Creeps\" (1930) is a lost film and its only remaining footage was included in a Universal short film called \"Boo!\" (1932). However, UCLA still has a copy of the soundtrack. The James Cagney film \"Winner Take All\" (1932) used scenes from the early talkie \"Queen of the Night Clubs\" (1929) starring Texas Guinan. While \"Queen of the Night Clubs\" was not a lost film in 1932, no prints of the film have survived through the decades, and only that footage included in \"Winner Take All\" remains.\n\nActress turned gossip columnist Hedda Hopper made her screen debut in a Fox Film called \"The Battle of Hearts\" (1916). The star of the film was William Farnum, then at the beginning of his long Fox contract. 26 years later in 1942 Hopper produced her short series \"Hedda Hopper's Hollywood #2\". In the short, Hopper, Farnum, her son William Hopper, and William's wife Jane Gilbert view portions of \"Battle of Hearts\". These brief portions of that movie survive within the Hopper documentary. More than likely Hopper had an entire print of the movie in 1942. However, like many early Fox films, \"Battle of Hearts\" is now lost or missing.\n\nOne of Charlie Chaplin's best-known works, the 1925 silent film \"The Gold Rush\", was re-released in 1942 to include a musical track and narration by Chaplin himself. The reissue would end up having the unintentional result of preserving the film, as the original 1925 film (though generally not considered a lost film) shows noticeable degradation of image and missing frames, damage not in evidence in the 1942 version.\n\nThe Polish film \"\" from 1939 contains three short fragments of \"Arabella\" from 1917, one of Pola Negri's early films, which later became lost.\n\nSeveral films have been made with lost film fragments incorporated into the work. \"Decasia\" (2002) used nothing but decaying film footage as an abstract tone poem of light and darkness, much like Peter Delpeut's more historical \"Lyrisch Nitraat\" (\"Lyrical Nitrate\", 1990) which contained only footage from canisters found stored in an Amsterdam cinema. In 1993, Delpeut released \"The Forbidden Quest\", combining early film footage and archival photographs with new material to tell the fictional story of an ill-fated Antarctic expedition.\n\nThe 2016 documentary \"\", about the history of Dawson City, Canada and the 1978 discovery of previously lost silent films there, incorporates parts of many of those films.\n\nThe Fox Film Corporation feature \"Charlie Chan Carries On\" (1931) only exists in a trailer made to promote the film, and in a Spanish language version \"Eran Trece\" (\"They were thirteen\").\n\nPeter Jackson's mockumentary \"Forgotten Silver\" purports to show recovered footage of early films. Instead, the filmmakers used newly shot film sequences treated to look like lost film.\n\nIn Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino's \"Grindhouse\" double feature, both the \"Planet Terror\" and \"Death Proof\" segments have references to missing reels, used as plot devices.\n\nJohn Carpenter's \"Masters of Horror\" episode \"Cigarette Burns\" deals with the search for a fictional lost film, \"La Fin Absolue Du Monde\" (\"The Absolute End of the World\").\n\n"}
{"id": "54080206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54080206", "title": "Louis M. Hacker", "text": "Louis M. Hacker\n\nLouis Morton Hacker (March 17, 1899 - March 22, 1987) was an American economic historian, Professor of Economics at Columbia University, and founding dean of its School of General Studies, and author. He is known as leading proponent of adult education.\n\nHacker, son of Morris and Celia (Waxelbaum) Hacker, was born and raised in New York City in Williamsburg, a neighborhood in Brooklyn. After attending the Brooklyn Boys' High School, he studied at Columbia College, Columbia University and Columbia University, where he obtained his AB in 1922, and his MA in 1923.\n\nAfter graduation in 1923 Hacker started as assistant editor at the \"New International Encyclopedia,\" and was contributing editor at the \"New International YearBook.\" In 1935 he started as lifelong academic career at Columbia University as lecturer in economics. In 1942 he became Assistant Professor, in 1944 Associate Professor, and in 1948 full Professor. After his retirement in 1967 he was appointed Professor Emeritus. In 1952 he was the first dean of its School of General Studies, where he served until 1958.\n\nIn 1937 he had been Visiting Professor at the University Wisconsin, in 1939 at the Ohio State University, in 1945 at Utah State Agricultural College, in 1953 at the University Hawaii, and in 1970 at the University Puget Sound. In 1948 he had been appointed Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Professor of American History for one year at the University of Oxford. In addition to the scientific work, he was involved in the American Civil Liberties Union.\n\nHacker died in Le Roy, New York in 1987 at the age of 88.\n\nHacker was a leading proponent of adult education. In an interview he had explained: \n\nHacker's research interests were in the field of American history and its social economic development, as well as the life and work of some of its greatest entrepreneurs such as Andrew Carnegie, Alexander Hamilton and Joseph M. Proskauer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2506315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2506315", "title": "Louis Pierre Édouard, Baron Bignon", "text": "Louis Pierre Édouard, Baron Bignon\n\nLouis Pierre Édouard, Baron Bignon (3 January 1771 in La Mailleraye-sur-Seine – 6 January 1841) was a French diplomat and historian.\n\nLouis de Bignon was born at La Mailleraye-sur-Seine, Seine-Maritime, the son of a dyer. Although he had received a good education, he served throughout the early part of the French Revolutionary Wars without rising above the rank of private. In 1797, however, the attention of Talleyrand, then minister of foreign affairs, was called to his exceptional abilities by General Huet, and he was attached to the diplomatic service.\n\nAfter serving in the legations in Switzerland and the Cisalpine Republic, he was appointed in 1799 attach to the French legation at Berlin, of which three years later he became \"chargé d'affaires\". As minister-plenipotentiary at Cassel, between the years 1804 and 1806, he took a prominent share in the formation of the confederation of the Rhine; and after the battle of Jena he returned to Prussia as administrator of the public domains and finances. He filled a similar function in Austria after the battle of Wagram. At the end of 1810 he became French resident at Warsaw and was for a couple of years supreme in the affairs of the grand duchy.\n\nThe preparation of a constitution for Poland, on which he was engaged, was, however, interrupted by the events of 1812. Bignon, after a short imprisonment at the hands of the allies, returned to France in time to witness the downfall of Napoleon. During the Hundred Days he once more entered Napoleon's service, and, after the battle of Waterloo, as minister of foreign affairs under the executive commission, it was he who signed the Convention of St. Cloud of the 3rd of July 1815, by which Paris was handed over to the allies.\n\nBignon did not re-enter public life until 1817, when he was elected to the chamber of deputies, in which he sat until 1830, consistent in his opposition to the reactionary policy of successive governments. His great reputation and his diplomatic experience gave a special weight to the attacks which he published on the policy of the continental allies, two of his works attracting special attention, \"Du congrès de Troppau ou Examen des prétentions des monarchies absolues à l’égard de la monarchie constitutionnelle de Naples\" (Paris, 1821), and \"Les Cabinets et les peuples depuis 1815 jusqu’à la fin de 1822\" (Paris, 1822).\n\nThe July Revolution, which brought his party into power, only led to a very temporary resumption of office by Bignon. He was for a few weeks minister of foreign affairs in the first government of Louis Philippe, and again for a few weeks minister of public instruction. But the idea of making him responsible for the foreign policy of France could not be realized owing to the necessity under which Louis Philippe lay of courting the goodwill of the powers, whom Bignon had offended by his outspoken writings.\n\nElected deputy in 1831 and member of the chamber of peers in 1839, he withdrew for the most part from politics to devote himself to his great work, the \"Histoire de France sous Napoleon\" (10 vols. 1829–1838, then 4 posthumous vols., 1847–1850). This history, while suffering the limitations of all contemporaneous narratives, contains much that does not exist elsewhere, and is one of the best-known sources for the later histories of Napoleon's reign. In his will, Napoleon had granted Bignon 100,000 francs and charged him \"to write the history of French diplomacy from 1792 to 1815,\" although the money was never delivered \n\n"}
{"id": "2765539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2765539", "title": "Lynn Picknett", "text": "Lynn Picknett\n\nLynn Picknett is a writer, researcher, and lecturer on the paranormal, the occult, and historical and religious mysteries.\n\nBorn in Folkestone, Kent, England, in April 1947, Picknett grew up in an alleged haunted house in York, attending Park Grove Junior School and Queen Anne Grammar School. After graduating from university with an Upper 2nd (hons) degree in English Literature, she briefly became a teacher, a shop assistant, and a stand-up comic before moving to London in 1971 to join Marshall Cavendish Publications as a trainee sub-editor.\n\nIn the 1980s, she was Deputy Editor on \"The Unexplained\" and contributor to many other publications. She was also a regular contributor on various radio shows, including Michael van Straten and Clive Bull's on LBC and Talk Radio. She was also a television presenter for both Anglia and Southern TV.\n\nIn 1990 she was guest curator for the Royal Photographic Society's exhibition \"The Unexplained at Bath\", performing the same function in 1999 for the National Museum of Photography, Film and Television at Bradford.\n\nIn the early 1990s, she teamed up with fellow researcher and writer Clive Prince. Their first book, \"Turin Shroud: How Leonardo da Vinci Fooled History\", was the first mainstream work to reveal how all the so-called miraculous characteristics of the Turin Shroud could easily be reproduced only using a pinhole camera (camera obscura), and argued that Leonardo da Vinci not only faked it, but used his own face for the model of Jesus, overlooking the fact that the first exhibition of the Shroud of Turin, authentic or not, was in 1357, almost one century before the birth of Da Vinci.\n\nTheir 1997 \"The Templar Revelation\" was credited by Dan Brown, both in \"The Da Vinci Code\" and in the 2006 court case (Baigent & Leigh v Random House), as the main inspiration for his novel.\n\nBetween 1999 and his death in 2003, she and Clive Prince worked with Stephen Prior, described in book blurb as \"a historian specialising in intelligence matters\".\n\nPicknett and Prince perform most of the research for their books themselves, though they are sometimes helped by several friends and fellow researchers. They have credited Keith Prince as a main contributor for their work on the Turin Shroud, Philip Coppens in \"The Stargate Conspiracy\" (published in 1999), and Robert Brydon for their work on \"Rudolf Hess\" (titled \"Double Standards: The Rudolf Hess Cover-Up\" and published in 2001).\n\nPicknett, as well as Prince, makes a brief appearance in the film \"The Da Vinci Code\". The pair appear on a London bus as the protagonists are travelling to the Temple Church, off Fleet Street in central London. Robert Langdon (Tom Hanks) leaves his seat to join Sophie (Audrey Tautou) at the back of the bus, and Picknett and Prince are seen sitting on the left.\n\nShe is the co-author of:\n\n\nShe is the author of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55874529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55874529", "title": "Madjedbebe", "text": "Madjedbebe\n\nMadjedbebe or Malakunanja II is a rock shelter in Arnhem Land, in the Northern Territory of Australia. It is about 50 km from the coast. Madjedbebe was first occupied by humans around 65 thousand (at least 59.3 thousand) years ago. This is the oldest known site showing the presence of humans in Australia. This date sets a new minimum age for: the arrival of humans in Australia, the dispersal of modern humans out of Africa and the subsequent interactions of modern humans with Neanderthals and Denisovans. More than 1500 items have been found in the shelter, including stone tools and grinding stones, ochre, and charcoal. Some of these were buried more than 2.5 metres below the surface. The shelter also includes faded paintings on the walls. The paintings are drawn with ochre. Archaeobotanical investigations have demonstrated a clear exploitation of plant foods, including: seeds, tubers and pandanus nuts. Fuel wood was also sourced from a local eucalyptus and moonson vine thicket forest.\n"}
{"id": "21378558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21378558", "title": "Mikhail Sabinin", "text": "Mikhail Sabinin\n\nMikhail (Gobron) Sabinin (, ) (1845–1900) was a Russo-Georgian monk, historian of the Georgian Orthodox Church and icon painter.\n\nHe was born to the Russian priest from Tver, Pavel Sabinin, and a Georgian woman. Educated at the Tiflis gymnasium in the 1860s, he then attended St. Petersburg Theologian Academy and attained to a magister degree for his work \"History of the Georgian Church until the End of the 6th Century\" (\"История грузинской церкви до конца VI в.\" [СПб., 1877]), the first comprehensive treatment of the subject produced in Russian. He travelled in several regions of Georgia, studying monuments of Christian architecture, copying frescos and icons, recording legends and collecting manuscripts. In St. Petersburg, he was tonsured a monk and given the name Gobron after a 10th-century Georgian saint. In 1882, he published \"The Paradise of Georgia\" (საქართველოს სამოთხე; St. Petersburg, 1882), a voluminous lithographed edition of biographies of important Georgian Orthodox Christian saints. In the 1880s, he served at the famous Iviron Monastery on Mount Athos. In 1882 he published also \"The Passion of Eustathius of Mtskheta\".\n\nIn 1898, he clashed with the office of Russian exarchate at Tiflis over his criticism of Russification and was removed from Georgia to Moscow where he died of pneumonia on May 10, 1900.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20774454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20774454", "title": "Mitrotsavam", "text": "Mitrotsavam\n\nMitrotsavam (Mitrolsavam, Mitra Ulsavam) is a Hindu festival worshipping the Sun god Surya, whose orderly traversal of the sky is ensured by Mitra-Varuna, the guardians of cosmic order () in Rig Veda 8.25.8 and elsewhere. \n\nOn Mitrotsavam, devotees worship the Sun for prosperity, health and courage. Surya is glorified in Vedic mantras as the expeller of darkness and evil. The most sacred Gayatri mantra, composed by Sage Vishvamitra, worships the Sun as Savita. Additionally, the Sun is honored by recitation of the Aditya Hridayam— according to a legend in the Ramayana, Lord Rama was initiated into the worship of Surya with that hymn, which then gave him strength and the power to vanquish evil. Devotees also perform the Surya Namaskara, recite 108 names of Surya, and pray for help to ward off evil, infirmity and disease. At the same time, devotees extoll Mitra (Vedic Mitra-Varuna) as the \"Pratyaksha devata\", the \"\"-minded, far-sighted, thousand-eyed light and fire of the Sun, worship of whom is considered especially beneficial for ailments of the eye and mind.\n\nIn 2008 Mitrotsavam fell on Thursday, December 25.\n"}
{"id": "11051902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051902", "title": "Olena Apanovich", "text": "Olena Apanovich\n\nOlena Apanovych () (9 November 1919 – 21 February 2000) was a Ukrainian historian, researcher of Zaporozhian Cossackdom.\n\nOlena Apanovych was born in Melekes of Simbirsk Governorate (now Dimitrovgrad of Ulyanovsk Oblast), Russia, in the family of the railroad clerk. By the memories of her relatives her mother gave birth to Olena in the railroad car. Her father was of Belarusian peasants (hence the Belarusian last name \"Apanovich\" and her mother was of the small-time Polish nobility ancestry. She spent all her childhood in Manchuria (the North-East of China) where her father worked. Her family was deported from China by the Japanese and settle in Kharkiv in 1933, where Olena finished the high-school. Olena's mother soon died and father was repressed in 1939 by false accusations.\n\nIn 1937 she entered the \"All-Union Institute of Journalism\" in Moscow but the school was soon closed and Apanovych returned to Kharkiv where she graduated from the Pedagogical Institute (Faculty of Russian language and literature) soon before the beginning of Second World War. After the onset of the German invasion she was evacuated to Kazakhstan and Bashkiria. From May, 1944, Olena worked in Central State Archive of Ukraine in Kiev as researcher and took part in preparation of many historical documents for publishing.\n\nIn 1950 Olena Apanovich defended her dissertation for the Kandidat of Science degree (roughly a Ph.D. equivalent) on Zaporozhian Cossacks participation in Russo-Turkish war of 1768-1774 and joined the Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine as a leading expert on Cossackdom. During the period of 1950 - 1972 she founded archaeological expeditions to the places, connected with Zaporozhian Cossackdom history, published many scientific works, made full register of Zaporozhian Cossacks memory places.\n\nFrom 1972 after being fired for political reasons from the Institute of History, Apanovych worked in the Central Scientific Library of The Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, making significant contribution in manuscript research. In early eighties the historian was often invited as consultant for documentary and fiction films on Ukrainian Cossackdom.\n\nIn 1991 Olena Apanovich became the member of the Writer's Union of Ukraine, in 1994 was awarded the prize named after T.Shevchenko, in 1995 - Antonovych prize in USA.\n\n"}
{"id": "52182922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52182922", "title": "Oscar Efren Reyes", "text": "Oscar Efren Reyes\n\nOscar Efrén Reyes (June 13, 1896, Baños – December 6, 1966, Quito), was a historian, journalist, politician, researcher and an Ecuadorian teacher. He is remembered for his teachings as well as his historic research of Ecuador and America.\n\nReyes was born in Baños, Tungurahua Province on June 13, 1896, the only child of María Petronila Reyes Noboa. His father was a \"arriero\" (muleteer). His grandparents, Francisco Reyes Hidalgo and Regina Noboa, owned a farm called \"La Escudilla\". I After the death of his mother in 1909 due to cancer, he was placed in the care of his aunt and uncle, Rosita Romo de Reyes and Juan Reyes Noboa.\n\nEventually he received education in grammar and mathematics, paid for by Dominican parish priest Fray Juan Halflants, who had admired the literary knowledge of Reyes at the age of 15. After two years of instruction and study, and under the watch of Halflants, the young 16 year old Reyes started his work as a teacher of children in the city of Baños, who still remember him for his introversion and kindness.\n\nIn 1914, with a scholarship from the State, Reyes enrolled at the Juan Montalvo Normal. He graduated in 1916 with the highest honors.\n\nReyes died in the city of Quito in the early morning of December 1, 1966, at a Military Hospital. His remains were moved to Baños, his birthplace, on June 13, 1985.\n"}
{"id": "23204044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23204044", "title": "Paper money catalog", "text": "Paper money catalog\n\nA paper money catalog or banknote catalog (or catalogue) is a catalog of banknotes and articles related to notable ones. The catalog is an essential tool of collecting as it provides information about the articles that many times cannot be extracted from them directly, such as the amount of banknotes printed.\n\nIn the 1950s, Robert Friedberg published the \"Paper Money of the United States\". Friedberg devised an organizing number system of all types of U.S. banknotes; the system is widely accepted among collectors and dealers to this day, and the volume has been regularly updated.\n\nAnother pioneer of cataloging banknotes was Albert Pick, a well-known German notaphilist (born 15 May 1922 in Cologne) who published a number of catalogs of European paper money, and, in 1974, the first \"Standard Catalog of World Paper Money\". His collection of over 180,000 banknotes was eventually housed at the Bavarian Mortgages and Exchange Bank (Bayerischen Hypotheken- und Wechselbank, now HypoVereinsbank). This catalog underwent several incarnations, and currently is published as a three volume group. Volume I, called Specialized Issues, includes notes issued by local authorities, which circulated in a limited area. Volume II called General Issues covers notes issued on a national scope, dated 1368 through 1960. Volume III covers Modern Issues dated 1960 to present. Each of the volumes is updated regularly, with Volume III now updated every year, Volumes I and II every 3 or so years. While Pick no longer edits the catalogs (from 1994-2015 George S. Cuhaj was editor), the catalogs are still commonly referred to as 'Pick Catalogs' and dealers and collectors alike refer to banknotes by their 'Pick number.'\nCurrent issues of the three volumes include: \n\nStarting 2009, Colnect's banknote catalog has been launched, available only online and created by collectors. It currently lists over 58,227 banknotes from 295 different locations.\nStarting 2011, BanknoteNews.com began publishing \"The Banknote Book\", a catalog available as high-resolution full-color PDF files, as well as a 3-volume print edition published by Spink Books.\n\n"}
{"id": "2803861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2803861", "title": "Philostorgius", "text": "Philostorgius\n\nPhilostorgius (; 368 – c. 439 AD) was an Anomoean Church historian of the 4th and 5th centuries. Anomoeanism was an extreme form of Arianism, denying the orthodox Trinitarian account of the relationship between God the Father and Christ the Logos and arguing the two are of entirely different essences. This view was considered heretical by the Church, which adopted the term \"homoousion\", \"coessential\" or \"consubstantial\", to describe the relation between Father and Son in the Nicene Creed as a shared singular divinity.\n\nVery little information about his life is available. He was born in Borissus, Cappadocia to Eulampia and Carterius, and lived in Constantinople from the age of twenty. He is said to have come from an Arian family, and in Constantinople soon attached himself to Eunomius, who receives a lot of praise from Philostorgius in his work.\n\nHe wrote a history of the Arian controversy titled \"Church History\" (Ἐκκλησιαστικὴ ἱστορία). Philostorgius' original appeared between 425 and 433, in other words, slightly earlier than the \"History\" of Socrates of Constantinople, and was formed in twelve volumes bound in two books. The original is now lost. However, one copy was found by the ninth-century historian Photius, in his library in Constantinople, who wrote an epitome of it. Others also borrowed from Philostorgius, most notably the author of the \"Artemii Passio\" (Artemius being a legendary martyr under Julian the Apostate), and so, despite the eventual disappearance of the original text, it is possible to form some idea of what it contained by reviewing the epitome and other references. This reconstruction of what might have been in the text was first published, in German, by the Belgian philologist Joseph Bidez in 1913; a third, revised edition of his work undertaken by was published in 1981; this edition has recently been translated into English by Philip R. Amidon.\n\nHe also wrote a treatise against Porphyry, which is lost.\n\n\n\n__notoc__\n"}
{"id": "26125954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26125954", "title": "Rawya Ateya", "text": "Rawya Ateya\n\nRawya Ateya (, 19 April 1926 – 9 May 1997) was an Egyptian woman who became the first female parliamentarian in the Arab world in 1957.\n\nRawya Ateya was born in Giza Governorate on 19 April 1926. She grew up in a politically active family. Her father was the secretary-general of the liberal Wafd Party in Gharbia, and his political activities led to his incarceration. Ateya herself took part in demonstrations from a very early age, and she was injured during the 1939 anti-British protests. She continued her studies to an advanced level, which was highly unusual for Egyptian girls at the time. She obtained several university degrees in various fields: a \"license\" in letters from Cairo University in 1947, a diploma in education and psychology, a master's degree in journalism and a diploma in Islamic studies. She worked as a teacher for 15 years and had a brief six-month stint as a journalist.\n\nIn 1956, Ateya became the first woman to be commissioned as an officer in the Liberation Army. She played an active role in the Suez War, during which Egypt was invaded by the United Kingdom, France and Israel. She helped train 4,000 women in first aid and nursing amid the war. Ateya held the rank of captain in a women's commando unit. During the October War of 1973, she chaired the Society of Families of Martyrs and Soldiers, which earned her the nickname of \"mother of the martyred combatants.\" She obtained several military awards from the Egyptian state, notably the badge of the Third Army, the Medallion of 6 October and the medal of the armed forces.\n\nVoting rights and eligibility for elected office were extended to Egyptian women by President Gamal Abdel Nasser through the adoption of the 1956 Constitution. The first elections under the new constitution were held the following year, on 3 July 1957. There were only 16 women in a field of more than 2,000 candidates. Opinion polls conducted at the time showed that 70% of Egyptian men were opposed to the idea of women taking seats in Parliament. Nevertheless, Ateya overcame the odds and received 110,807 votes in her constituency. Elected from Cairo in the second round, she described the strong bias she faced at the time by saying: \"I was met with resentment for being a woman. Yet I talked to them and reminded them of the prophet's wives and families until they changed their opinions.\" In addition to such religious arguments, she used her military experience as a political asset. Ateya's victory was all the more significant since her opponent in the election was pro-communist lawyer and banker Ahmed Fuad, a personal friend and protégé of President Nasser.\n\nAteya took her seat in the National Assembly on 14 July 1957. Although another woman (Amina Shukri) was elected in the 1957 elections, her victory was only announced on 22 July, thus making Ateya the first female parliamentarian in Egypt and the whole Arab world. During her time in Parliament, Ateya championed women's rights. She insisted on the implementation of preferential treatment for female workers, notably a two-month maternity leave with full salary. In July 1958, she presented a law abolishing polygamy. Although supported by most MPs from urban districts such as Cairo and Alexandria, the law was strongly opposed by MPs representing rural districts and did not pass. Ateya was also unusually pro-American in an era of intense Arab nationalism and anti-imperialism. After visiting the major communist and socialist-leaning countries of the time such as China, India, the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia, she told reporters: \"I have seen Russia, but I really think that I would like Egypt to be more like the United States of America.\" She publicly stated that she liked the United States and its president Dwight D. Eisenhower, a position for which she was attacked. Nevertheless, she managed to get away with the criticism due to her strong support for President Nasser, whom she described as \"beautiful\".\n\nAteya's victory in 1957 was short-lived: two years later, she lost her bid for re-election. However, she remained active, notably serving on the board of the Red Crescent. Twenty-five years after her electoral loss, Ateya managed to revive her parliamentary career. A social democrat, she was elected to the People's Assembly in 1984 under the banner of the National Democratic Party. She headed the Population and Family Council for Giza in 1993. Ateya died in 1997 at the age of 71.\n\nRawya Ateya is considered a pioneering figure in the history of Egyptian and Arab feminism. In December 2007, a ceremony was held in the Egyptian Parliament to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Ateya's electoral victory. The ceremony was notably attended by Lateefa Al Gaood from Bahrain, who had become a year earlier the first female MP in the Persian Gulf region, as well as Nada Haffadh also from Bahrain and that nation's first ever female cabinet minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2630795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2630795", "title": "Redskin (subculture)", "text": "Redskin (subculture)\n\nIn the context of the skinhead subculture, a redskin is a marxist or anarchist skinhead. The term combines the word \"red\", (a slang term for socialist or communist) with the word \"skin\", which is short for skinhead. Redskins take a militant anti-fascist and pro-working class stance. \n\nThe most well-known organization associated with redskins is Red and Anarchist Skinheads (RASH). Other groups that have had redskin members include Anti-Fascist Action, Red Action and Skinheads Against Racial Prejudice (although SHARP does not have an official leftist ideology). Bands associated with redskins include: The Redskins, Angelic Upstarts, Blaggers I.T.A., Kortatu, Skalariak, Banda Bassotti, The Burial, Negu Gorriak, Opció K-95, Los Fastidios, Kaos Urbano, Brigada Flores Magón, Nucleo Terco and The Press. One record label associated with the subculture is Insurgence Records.\n"}
{"id": "17192431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17192431", "title": "Ruaidhri Ó Cianáin", "text": "Ruaidhri Ó Cianáin\n\nRuaidhri Ó Cianáin (died 1387) was an Irish historian.\n\nDescribed upon his death as \"a learned historian without fault\", \"professor of Oirghialla in history\", \"chiefe Chronicler of the territory of Uriell\". A member of the learned Ó Cianáin (Keenan) family, Ruaidhri was the scribe and compiler of \"Dunaire Mheig Shamhradháin\" (\"Book of Maguran\"), also known as \"Leabhar Meig Shamradhain.\" In the possession for many centuries of the Ó Conor Don family of Clonalis, Castlerea, County Roscommon, but since 1972 National Library of Ireland MS G 1200.\n\nA colophon in it reads \"Ruaidri O Cianan do sgrib in duanairsea do Thomas mac Brian meic Dondchaid meic Gille na Naem\" [Mag Shamradhain] (\"Ruaidhri Ó Cianáin who penned this poembook of Tomas son of Brian son of Donnchad son of Gilla na Naomh\"). This Tomás was chief of Tulach Eachach (Tullyhaw, County Cavan, who died in 1343, so Ruaidhri was writing this \"dunaire\" in his lifetime. It is among the earliest post-Norman Irish language manuscripts of any kind to survive, though the compilers, including Ruaidhri, do not seem to have been trained poets.\n\n"}
{"id": "7651709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7651709", "title": "Siddha medicine", "text": "Siddha medicine\n\nSiddha medicine () is a system of traditional medicine originating in ancient Tamilakam (Tamil Nadu) in South India and Sri Lanka.\n\nTraditionally, it is taught that the siddhars laid the foundation for this system of medication. Siddhars were spiritual adepts who possessed the ashta siddhis, or the eight supernatural powers. Agastyar is considered the first siddha and the guru of all siddhars; the siddha system is believed to have been handed over to him by Murugan, son of Shiva and Parvati.\n\nThe Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy of the Government of India coordinates and promotes research in the fields of ayurveda and Siddha medicine. The Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body established in 1971 under AYUSH, monitors higher education in areas of Indian medicine, including Siddha medicine. To fight bioprospecting and unethical patents, India set up the Traditional Knowledge Digital Library in 2001 as a repository of 223,000 formulations of various systems of medicine common in India, such as ayurveda, unani, Siddha medicine and homeopathy.\n\nThe Siddha science is a traditional treatment system generated from Tamil culture. Palm leaf manuscripts say that the Siddha system was first described by Lord Shiva to his wife Parvati. Parvati explained all this knowledge to her son Lord Muruga. He taught all this knowledge to his disciple sage Agasthya. Agasthya taught 18 Siddhars and they spread this knowledge to human beings.\n\nSiddha is focused on \"Ashtamahasiddhi,\" the eight supernatural power. Those who attained or achieved these powers are known as Siddhars. There were 18 important Siddhars in olden days and they developed this system of medicine. Hence, it is called Siddha medicine. The Siddhars wrote their knowledge in palm leaf manuscripts, fragments of which were found in parts of South India. It is believed that some families may possess more fragments but keep them solely for their own use. There is a huge collection of Siddha manuscripts kept by traditional Siddha families.\n\nAccording to the manikandan, there were 22 principal siddhars. Of these 22, Agasthya is believed to be the father of siddha medicine. Siddhars believed that a healthy soul can only be developed through a healthy body. So they developed methods and medication that are believed to strengthen their physical body and thereby their souls. Men and women who dedicated their lives into developing the system were called \"Siddhars\". They practised intense yogic practices, including years of periodic fasting and meditation, and were believed to have achieved supernatural powers and gained the supreme wisdom and overall immortality. Through this spiritually attained supreme knowledge, they wrote scriptures on all aspects of life, from arts to science and truth of life to miracle cure for diseases.\n\nFrom the manuscripts, the siddha system of medicine developed into part of Indian medical science. Today there are recognized siddha medical colleges, run under the government universities, where siddha medicine is taught.\n\nMost Siddha medical practitioners are traditionally trained, usually in families and by gurus (teachers). When the guru is a martial arts teacher, he is also known as an \"ashan\". They make a diagnosis after a patient's visit and set about to refer to their manuscripts for the appropriate remedies, which a true blue physician compounds by himself or herself, from thousands of herbal and herbo-mineral resources. The methodology of siddha thought has formulated curious remedies which may sometimes have more than 250 ingredients.\n\nAfter former Chief Minister Karunanidhi's announcement of Tamil New Year's Day as World Siddha Day, the first World Siddha Day was celebrated on 14 April 2009, addressed by his Excellency Shri Surjit Singh Barnala, Governor of Tamil Nadu. The second World Siddha Day was celebrated in a grand manner on 14 April 2010, at Image Auditorium, Adyar, Chennai; more than 2000 students, post graduates, practitioners and traditional vaidyas participated in the celebration. In connection with the celebrations, a website was launched. The third World Siddha day was celebrated at Trivandrum, Kerala, where Siddha doctors met on 14 and 15 April 2011.\n\nIt is assumed that when the normal equilibrium of the three humors — Vaadham, Pittham and Kapam — is disturbed, disease is caused. The factors assumed to affect this equilibrium are environment, climatic conditions, diet, physical activities, and stress. Under normal conditions, the ratio between Vaadham, Pittham, and Kapam are 4:2:1, respectively.\n\nAccording to the Siddha medicine system, diet and lifestyle play a major role in health and in curing diseases. This concept of the Siddha medicine is termed as pathiyam and apathiyam, which is essentially a list of \"do's and don'ts\".\n\nIn diagnosis, examination of eight items is required which is commonly known as \"enn vakaith thervu\". These are:\n\n\nThe drugs used by the Siddhars could be classified into three groups: \"thavaram\" (herbal product), \"thadhu\" (inorganic substances) and \"jangamam\" (animal products). The Thadhu drugs are further classified as: \"uppu\" (water-soluble inorganic substances or drugs that give out vapour when put into fire), \"pashanam\" (drugs not dissolved in water but emit vapour when fired), \"uparasam\" (similar to \"pashanam\" but differ in action), \"loham\" (not dissolved in water but melt when fired), \"rasam\" (drugs which are soft), and \"ghandhagam\" (drugs which are insoluble in water, like sulphur).\n\nThe Tamil Nadu state runs a 5.5-year course in Siddha medicine (BSMS: Bachelor in Siddha Medicine and Surgery). The Indian Government also gives its focus on Siddha, by starting up medical colleges and research centers like National Institute of Siddha and Central Council for Research in Siddha. Commercially, Siddha medicine is practiced by Siddha referred in Tamil as \"vaithiyars\".\n\n"}
{"id": "231676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231676", "title": "Skirt", "text": "Skirt\n\nA skirt is the lower part of a dress or gown, covering the person from the waist downwards, or a separate outer garment serving this purpose.\n\nThe hemline of skirts can vary from micro to floor-length and can vary according to cultural conceptions of modesty and aesthetics as well as the wearer's personal taste, which can be influenced by such factors as fashion and social context. Most skirts are self-standing garments, but some skirt-looking panels may be part of another garment such as leggings, shorts, and swimsuits.\n\nIn the western world, skirts are more commonly worn by women; with some exceptions such as the izaar which is worn by Muslim cultures and the kilt which is a traditional men's garment in Scotland and Ireland and sometimes England. Many fashion designers, such as Jean Paul Gaultier, Vivienne Westwood, Kenzo and Marc Jacobs have shown men's skirts. Transgressing social codes, Gaultier frequently introduces the skirt into his men's wear collections as a means of injecting novelty into male attire, most famously the sarong seen on David Beckham. Other cultures traditionally wear skirts.\n\nAt its simplest, a skirt can be a draped garment made out of a single piece of fabric (such as pareos), but most skirts are fitted to the body at the waist or hips and fuller below, with the fullness introduced by means of darts, gores, pleats, or panels. Modern skirts are usually made of light to mid-weight fabrics, such as denim, jersey, worsted, or poplin. Skirts of thin or clingy fabrics are often worn with slips to make the material of the skirt drape better and for modesty.\n\nSkirts were worn since prehistoric times. They were the simplest way to cover the lower body. Pants were not at hand for a very long time. A straw-woven skirt dating to 3.900 BC was discovered in Armenia at the Areni-1 cave complex. Skirts were the standard attire for men and women in all ancient cultures in the Near East and Egypt. The Sumerians in Mesopotamia wore kaunakes, a type of fur skirt tied to a belt. The term \"kaunakes\" originally referred to a sheep's fleece, but eventually came to be applied to the garment itself. Eventually, the animal pelts were replaced by kaunakes cloth, a textile that imitated fleecy sheep skin. Kaunakes cloth also served as a symbol in religious iconography, such as in the fleecy cloak of St. John the Baptist.\n\nAncient Egyptian garments were mainly made of linen. For the upper classes, they were beautifully woven and intricately pleated. Around 2,130 BC, during the Old Kingdom of Egypt, men wore wraparound skirts (kilts) known as the shendyt, They were made of a rectangular piece of cloth wrapped around the lower body and tied in front. By the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, longer skirts, reaching from the waist to ankles and sometimes hanging from the armpits, became fashionable. During the New Kingdom of Egypt, kilts with a pleated triangular section became fashionable for men. Beneath these, a shente, or triangular loincloth whose ends were fastened with cord ties, were worn.\n\nDuring the Bronze Age, in the Southern parts of Western and Central Europe, wraparound dress-like garments were preferred. However, in Northern Europe, people also wore skirts and blouses.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, men and women preferred dress-like garments. The lower part of men′s dresses were much shorter in length compared to those for women. They were wide cut and often pleated or gored so that horse riding became more comfortable. Even a knight's armor had a short metal skirt below the breastplate. It covered the straps attaching the upper legs iron cuisse to the breastplate. Technological advances in weaving in the 13-15th century, like foot-treadle floor looms and scissors with pivoted blades and handles, improved tailoring trousers and tights. They became fashionable for men and henceforth became standard male attire whilst becoming taboo for women.\n\nSkirts are still worn by men and women from many cultures, such as the lungi, lehnga, kanga and sarong worn in South Asia and Southeast Asia, and the kilt worn in Scotland and Ireland.\n\nOne of the earliest known cultures to have females wear clothing resembling miniskirts were the Duan Qun Miao (短裙苗), which literally meant \"short skirt Miao\" in Chinese. This was in reference to the short miniskirts \"that barely cover the buttocks\" worn by women of the tribe, and which were \"probably shocking\" to observers in medieval and early modern times.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, some upper-class women wore skirts over three metres in diameter at the bottom. At the other extreme, the miniskirts of the 1960s were minimal garments that may have barely covered the underwear when seated. Costume historians typically use the word \"petticoat\" to describe skirt-like garments of the 18th century or earlier.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the cut of women's dresses in western culture varied more widely than in any other century. Waistlines started just below the bust (the Empire silhouette) and gradually sank to the natural waist. Skirts started fairly narrow and\nincreased dramatically to the hoopskirt and crinoline-supported styles of the 1860s; then fullness was draped and drawn to the back by means of bustles.\nIn the 1890s the rainy daisy skirt was introduced for walking or sportswear. It had a significantly shorter hemline measuring as much as six inches off the ground and would eventually influence the wider introduction of shorter hemlines in the early 20th century.\n\nBeginning around 1915, hemlines for daytime dresses left the floor for good. For the next fifty years fashionable skirts became short (1920s), then long (1930s), then shorter (the War Years with their restrictions on fabric), then long (the \"New Look\"), then shortest of all from 1967 to 1970, when skirts became as short as possible while avoiding exposure of underwear, which was considered taboo. However, a long skirt provided privacy when women needed to relieve themselves in the open.\n\nSince the 1970s and the rise of pants/trousers for women as an option for all but the most formal of occasions, no one skirt length has dominated fashion for long, with short and ankle-length styles often appearing side-by-side in fashion magazines and catalogs.\n\nSkirt is a part of uniform for girls in many schools across the world, with length of skirt varying as per local culture. The pleated tartan skirt has been a component of girls' school uniforms since the early twentieth century in UK. In 21st century, skirt has become part of Western dress code for women and is worn as business casual and office wear, and also as sportswear (ex. in tennis). Skirt may also be mandatory as formal wear, such as for airhostesses, waitresses, nurses and military women.\n\n\n\nThere are a number of garments marketed to men which fall under the category of \"skirt\" or \"dress\". These go by a variety of names and form part of the traditional dress for men from various cultures. Usage varies – the dhoti is part of everyday dress on the Indian subcontinent while the kilt is more usually restricted to occasional wear and the fustanella is used almost exclusively as costume. Robes, which are a type of dress for men, have existed in many cultures, including the Japanese kimono, the Chinese cheongsam, the Arabic thobe, and the African Senegalese kaftan. Robes are also used in some religious orders, such as the cassock in Christianity and various robes and cloaks that may be used in pagan rituals. Examples of men's skirts and skirt-like garments from various cultures include:\n\n\nAside from the wearing of kilts, in the Western world skirts, dresses, and similar garments are generally viewed exclusively women's clothing which, historically, was not always the case. However, Western men have taken up skirts as forms of civil protest. Other Western men advocate skirts as a measure of co-equality between women and men.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "488737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488737", "title": "Stole (vestment)", "text": "Stole (vestment)\n\nThe stole is a liturgical vestment of various Christian denominations. It consists of a band of colored cloth, formerly usually of silk, about seven and a half to nine feet long and three to four inches wide, whose ends may be straight or may broaden out. The center of the stole is worn around the back of the neck and the two ends hang down parallel to each other in front, either attached to each other or hanging loose. The stole is almost always decorated in some way, usually with a cross or some other significant religious design. It is often decorated with contrasting galloons (ornamental trim) and fringe is usually applied to the ends of the stole following . A piece of white linen or lace may be stitched onto the back of the collar as a sweat guard, which can be replaced more cheaply than the stole itself.\n\nThe word \"stole\" derives via the Latin \"stola\", from the Greek στολή (\"stolē\"), \"garment\", originally \"array\" or \"equipment\".\n\nThe stole was originally a kind of shawl that covered the shoulders and fell down in front of the body; on women they were often very large. After being adopted by the Church of Rome around the seventh century (the stole having also been adopted in other locales prior to this), the stole gradually became narrower and started to feature more ornate designs, developing into a mark of dignity. Nowadays, the stole is usually wider and can be made from a wide variety of material.\n\nThere are many theories as to the \"ancestry\" of the stole. Some say it came from the tallit (Jewish prayer mantle), because it is very similar to the present usage (as in the minister puts it on when he or she leads in prayer) but this theory is no longer regarded much today. More popular is the theory that the stole originated from a kind of liturgical napkin called an \"orarium\" (cf. orarion) very similar to the sudarium. In fact, in many places the stole is called the orarium. Therefore, it is linked to the napkin used by Christ in washing the feet of his disciples, and is a fitting symbol of the yoke of Christ, the yoke of service.\n\nThe most likely origin for the stole, however, is to be connected with the scarf of office among Imperial officials in the Roman Empire. As members of the clergy became members of the Roman administration (see Constantine I and Christianity) they were granted certain honors, one specifically being a designator of rank within the imperial (and ecclesiastical) hierarchy. The various configurations of the stole (including the pallium or the omophorion) grew out of this usage. The original intent, then was to designate a person as belonging to a particular organization and to denote their rank within their group, a function which the stole continues to perform today. Thus, unlike other liturgical garments which were originally worn by every cleric or layman, the stole was a garment which was specifically restricted to particular classes of people based on occupation.\n\nStoles were already used in pre-Roman Italic religion. In the Umbrian Iguvine Tablets, a stole was used by an officiating priest during offering rituals. It was worn on the shoulder during a sacrifice, and then placed on an offering cake:\n\n\"While you are slaying it, wear a stole on your right shoulder. When you have slain it, place (the stole) upon the mefa cake. While you are presenting it, wear the stole on your right shoulder. Present grain-offerings and sacrifice with mead.\" (ibid, pg. 164)\n\nTogether with the cincture and the now mostly defunct maniple, the stole symbolizes the bonds and fetters with which Jesus was bound during his Passion; it is usually ornamented with a cross. Another version is that the stole denotes the duty to spread the Word of God.\n\nA stole will generally be the liturgical color assigned by the church for the liturgical season or for the particular service.\n\nIn the Latin Catholic tradition the stole is the vestment that marks recipients of Holy Orders. It is conferred at the ordination of a deacon, by which one becomes a member of the clergy after the suppression of the tonsure and minor orders after the Second Vatican Council.\n\nA bishop or other priest wears the stole around his neck with the ends hanging down in front, while the deacon places it over his left shoulder and ties it cross-wise at his right side, similar to a sash.\n\nBefore the reform of the liturgy after the Second Vatican Council, priests who were not bishops crossed the stole over the breast (as pictured below), but only at Mass or at other functions at which a chasuble or cope was worn. It is now worn hanging straight down (\"General Instruction of the Roman Missal\", 340) at all times. On solemn occasions, the Pope wears, as part of his choir dress, a special stole of state highly decorated and bearing his personal coat of arms.\n\nFor the celebration of the Mass, the principal celebrant as well as concelebrants wear the stole over the alb but under the chasuble. Likewise, the deacon wears the stole over the alb but under the dalmatic. The stole is also worn over the surplice or alb for the distribution and reception of Holy Communion.\n\nThe priest or deacon who presides in paraliturgical celebrations, such as the Stations of the Cross, usually wears the stole over the surplice (or alb), and always under the cope.\n\nDuring the English Reformation, the stole, along with all other sacramental vestments were removed from the Church of England. The Oxford Movement began an interest in pre-Reformation worship, and eventually the stole (along with other vestments) were revived among Anglo-Catholic clergy. Though today, it is not uncommon for a Low Church priest to wear a stole with choir dress, stricter ones may still object to its use, and wear the tippet instead. This re-introduction of the stole continued to cause concern even in the 20th century. During the 1950s, the Bishop of London, William Wand, and the Bishop of Oxford, Kenneth Kirk refused to ordain any candidate to the priesthood who would not wear a stole. Many candidates objected to wearing it because of their theological and traditional allegiances. Finally, Geoffrey Fisher, Archbishop of Canterbury, had to resolve the matter, and instructed that all bishops must not refuse ordination simply because the candidate was unwilling to wear the stole. Today, there is less controversy. When a stole is used in a deacon's ordination, it may be conferred on him or her and worn over the shoulder. At ordination to the priesthood, the newly ordained priest then wears the stole around his or her neck, hanging down in front, either straight down or crossed across the front of the body and secured with the cincture.\n\nIn Protestant churches, the stole is most often seen as the symbol of ordination and the office of the ministry of Word and Sacrament. Stoles are often given by the congregation (sometimes hand-made or decorated) as a love gift at ordination or at other life milestones. Generally, Protestant clergy wear the stole in the same manner as Catholic priests—around the back of the neck with the ends hanging down the front (though not crossed). Stoles are commonly worn by ordained ministers in Lutheran (see below), Methodist (see below), Presbyterian, United Church of Christ, Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), and other denominations. The clergy of some other Protestant denominations will wear stoles, though normally those in the less liturgical churches will wear either a pulpit robe (with a preaching scarf) or simply a suit during church services.\n\nIn the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA), the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS), and the Independent Evangelical-Lutheran Church (Germany), only pastors wear the stole, as there is only the one order of ordination, that of pastor, in these Lutheran traditions. (The office of bishop for Episcopal polity and president for Congregational Polity is not a separate order of ordination.) Diaconal ministers, the ELCA's equivalent to the deacon, generally do not wear the stole, but sometimes will wear the traditional deacon's stole while performing liturgical functions traditional to the diaconal order. However, in certain Lutheran Churches where people are ordained to the diaconal ministry, such as in the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, wearing a deacon's stole when assisting in a liturgy is an official rule. The Evangelical-Lutheran Church of Sweden clergy follow the use described for Anglican deacons and priests in this article, except the practice of wearing the stole hanging straight down is reserved for bishops (priests wear it crossed over the chest except over a surplice, when no cincture is worn).\n\nIn the United Methodist Church, ordained deacons wear a stole around the shoulder as in the Anglican and Roman traditions. An ordained elder wears the stole in the same fashion as an Anglican or Roman Catholic priest, with the role of elder being the Methodist equivalent, among other Protestant denominations, to that office. The English word \"priest\" is in fact derived from the Greek word \"presbyter\", which means \"elder\".\n\nIn The Byzantine Rite practice of the Eastern Orthodox and Greek Catholic churches, the stole worn by a deacon is called an orarion, while that worn by a priest or bishop is called an epitrachelion (a bishop additionally wears an omophorion), all similar in meaning and use to the Western stole. In Greek Orthodox practice, the deacon wears a double orarion, meaning it comes over the left arm and under the right. Minor clerics (and in Greek and Melkite traditions the altar servers as well) wear an orarion wrapped around their waist, crossed in back, and then either crossed again in front and tucked under the belted section or not crossed and tucked in (see explanation of subdeacon below).\n\nThe priest's epitrachelion consists of a long strip of cloth, hung around the neck with the two strips fastened together in front, either by buttons or by stitching. The epitrachelion comes down in front almost to the hem of his robes, and is symbolic of the priest's \"anointing\" (Septuagint: Psalm 132:2; KJV: Psalm 133:2). Traditionally—though not necessarily—the epitrachelion will have seven crosses on it: six in the front (three on each side) and one on the back of the collar. The priest traditionally blesses the cross on the collar and kisses it before he puts it on, and kisses it again when he takes it off. When he is vesting for the Divine Liturgy, he says the following prayer before putting on the epitrachelion:\n\n\"Blessed is God, Who poureth out His grace upon His priests, like the oil of myrrh upon the head, which runneth down upon the beard, upon the beard of Aaron: which runneth down to the fringe of his raiment.\" (Cf. Psalm 132:2, LXX)\n\nIn the Russian Orthodox tradition, the priest may say a special blessing and sprinkle the epitrachelion with holy water before it is worn for the first time. A priest is not permitted to celebrate even the simplest service, even the Daily Office, unless he is wearing the epitrachelion (and in some traditions the epimanikia, or \"cuffs\", as well). When a member of the faithful goes to Confession, the priest places the edge of his epitrachelion over the head of the penitent as he confesses his sins. After the absolution, the penitent will often kiss the priest's hand and then one of the crosses on the edge of the epitrachelion. At an Orthodox wedding, the priest will have the bridal couple hold the edge of his epitrachelion as he leads them in a procession three times around the Gospel Book, symbolizing the pilgrimage of life.\n\nThe protodeacon or archdeacon wears the orarion \"doubled\", i.e., over the left shoulder, under the right arm, and passing again over the left shoulder. The two ends hang down, one in the front and one in the back, coming down almost to the hem of his sticharion (dalmatic).\n\nA deacon wears an orarion which simply passes over the left shoulder, the two ends of which hang straight down, one in the front and one in the back, coming down almost to the hem of his sticharion. This is only common in the most traditional Orthodox churches. In many Eastern traditions, the stole is always worn \"doubled\" unless the deacon in question is wearing only his exorasson (outer cassock) and then it is essentially folded and worn over the left shoulder.\n\nThe subdeacon wears his orarion over both shoulders, crossed in the back and the front. Those acting as subdeacons (i.e., vested and serving as subdeacons but without having been ordained) wear their orarion crossed only in the back, to show that they do not bear holy orders.\n\nIn the Oriental Orthodox Churches, the priestly stole is very similar to the epitrachelion described above; however, instead of a long narrow strip of fabric that is wrapped around the neck and fastened together, it is often cut out of a single broad piece of cloth that has a hole cut in it for the head to pass through. Sometimes, depending upon the liturgical Rite, it also extends farther down the back.\n\nThe British Monarch, although not in Holy Orders, is anointed with the oil of Chrism and invested with a stole during the Coronation rite. This stole, made of gold silk, is officially named the \"Stole Royal\" or \"Armilla\", and is one of several coronation robes kept overnight in the Jerusalem Chamber of Westminster Abbey before the day of the coronation. The Coronation (which is always in the context of a Eucharist) is an official liturgy of the Church of England; the Archbishop of Canterbury has responsibility for the ceremony and is almost always its presider.\n\nA stole is used in the Mandaean religion by the priests during rituals.\n\nA stole/scarf/tippet is worn in the Unitarian Universalist religion by some ministers during weekly services. The garment is a symbol of ministry. UU stoles often are adorned with the Unitarian Universalist chalice and come in a wide range of colors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52175459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52175459", "title": "Studies in the History of Medieval Religion", "text": "Studies in the History of Medieval Religion\n\nStudies in the History of Medieval Religion is a history book series published by Boydell & Brewer on the history of medieval religion. The series editor is Frances Andrews of St Andrews University. As of November 2016 there were 44 volumes in print in the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "504603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504603", "title": "Sukhothai (city)", "text": "Sukhothai (city)\n\nSukhothai (, ) was the capital of the Sukhothai Kingdom. Sukhothai is 12 km west of the modern city of Sukhothai Thani.\n\nSukhothai is from Sanskrit \"sukha\" (सुख \"happiness\") + \"udaya\" (उदय \"rise, emergence\"), meaning \"dawn of happiness\". Founded in 1238, it is about 427 km north of Bangkok. Sukhothai was the capital of the Thai Empire for approximately 140 years. As of 2014, 193 temples have been excavated and partly reconstructed.\n\nThe stele of Ram Khamhaeng states the city had a triple wall and four gates. At its center was a pond, a \"marvelous pond of clear and delicious water like the water of the Mekong in the dry season.\" The Aranyika monastery was west of the city, a great lake to the east, a market to the north, and the Khao Luang hill to the south.\n\nOld Sukhothai is a quiet town with almost no hotels. Most visitors stay in New Sukhothai. Others stay in the nearby city of Phitsanulok, which has numerous hotels and restaurants and is on the rail line between Bangkok and Chiang Mai.\n\nSukhothai occupies an area of 6,596 km. The historic town of Sukhothai and related areas were designated a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "51357995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51357995", "title": "The Shadow Brokers", "text": "The Shadow Brokers\n\nThe Shadow Brokers (TSB) is a hacker group who first appeared in the summer of 2010. They published several leaks containing hacking tools from the National Security Agency (NSA), including several zero-day exploits. Specifically, these exploits and vulnerabilities targeted enterprise firewalls, antivirus software, and Microsoft products. The Shadow Brokers originally attributed the leaks to the Equation Group threat actor, who have been tied to the NSA's Tailored Access Operations unit.\n\nSeveral news sources noted that the group's name was likely in reference to a character from the \"Mass Effect\" video game series. Matt Suiche quoted the following description of that character: \"The Shadow Broker is an individual at the head of an expansive organization which trades in information, always selling to the highest bidder. The Shadow Broker appears to be highly competent at its trade: all secrets that are bought and sold never allow one customer of the Broker to gain a significant advantage, forcing the customers to continue trading information to avoid becoming disadvantaged, allowing the Broker to remain in business.\"\n\nWhile the exact date is unclear, reports suggest that preparation of the leak started at least in the beginning of August, and that the initial publication occurred August 13, 2016 with a Tweet from a Twitter account \"@shadowbrokerss\" announcing a Pastebin page and a GitHub repository containing references and instructions for obtaining and decrypting the content of a file supposedly containing tools and exploits used by the Equation Group.\n\nThe Pastebin introduces a section titled \"Equation Group Cyber Weapons Auction - Invitation\", with the following content:\nEquation Group Cyber Weapons Auction - Invitation\n!!! Attention government sponsors of cyber warfare and those who profit from it !!!!\nHow much you pay for enemies cyber weapons? Not malware you find in networks. Both sides, RAT + LP, full state sponsor tool set? We find cyber weapons made by creators of stuxnet, duqu, flame. Kaspersky calls Equation Group. We follow Equation Group traffic. We find Equation Group source range. We hack Equation Group. We find many many Equation Group cyber weapons. You see pictures. We give you some Equation Group files free, you see. This is good proof no? You enjoy!!! You break many things. You find many intrusions. You write many words. But not all, we are auction the best files.\n\nThe Pastebin includes various references for obtaining the file, named \"EQGRP-Auction-Files.zip\". This zip file contains seven files, two of which are the GPG-encrypted archives \"eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz.gpg\" and \"eqgrp-free-file.tar.xz.gpg\". The \"eqgrp-free-file.tar.xz.gpg\" archive's password was revealed in the original Pastebin to be codice_1. The \"eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz\" archive's password was revealed in a later Medium post to be codice_2.\n\nThe Pastebin continues with instructions for obtaining the password to the encrypted auction file:\nAuction Instructions\n\nWe auction best files to highest bidder. Auction files better than stuxnet. Auction files better than free files we already give you. The party which sends most bitcoins to address: 19BY2XCgbDe6WtTVbTyzM9eR3LYr6VitWK before bidding stops is winner, we tell how to decrypt. Very important!!! When you send bitcoin you add additional output to transaction. You add OP_Return output. In Op_Return output you put your (bidder) contact info. We suggest use bitmessage or I2P-bote email address. No other information will be disclosed by us publicly. Do not believe unsigned messages. We will contact winner with decryption instructions. Winner can do with files as they please, we not release files to public.\nThe initial response to the publication was met with some skepticism, as to whether or not the content actually would be \"...many many Equation Group cyber weapons.\"\n\nThis publication, made on October 31, 2016, contains a list of servers, supposedly compromised by Equation Group as well as references to seven supposedly undisclosed tools (DEWDROP, INCISION, JACKLADDER, ORANGUTAN, PATCHICILLIN, RETICULUM, SIDETRACK AND STOCSURGEON) also used by the threat actor.\n\nLink to message\n\nLink to material (Password = payus)\n\nMessage #6 reads as follows:TheShadowBrokers is trying auction. Peoples no like. TheShadowBrokers is trying crowdfunding. Peoples is no liking. Now TheShadowBrokers is trying direct sales. Be checking out ListOfWarez. If you like, you email TheShadowBrokers with name of Warez you want make purchase. TheShadowBrokers is emailing you back bitcoin address. You make payment. TheShadowBrokers emailing you link + decryption password. If not liking this transaction method, you finding TheShadowBrokers on underground marketplaces and making transaction with escrow. Files as always being signed.This leak contains 60 folders named in a way to serve as reference to tools likely used by Equation Group. The leak doesn't contain executable files, but rather screenshots of the tools file structure. While the leak could be a fake, the overall cohesion between previous and future leaks and references as well as the work required to fake such a fabrication, gives credibility to the theory that the referenced tools are genuine.\n\nOn April 8, 2017, the Medium account used by The Shadow Brokers posted a new update. The post revealed the password to encrypted files released last year to be codice_2. Those files allegedly reveal more NSA hacking tools. This posting explicitly stated that the post was partially in response to President Trump's attack against a Syrian airfield, which was also used by Russian forces.\n\nThe decrypted file, eqgrp-auction-file.tar.xz, contained a collection of tools primarily for compromising Linux/Unix based environments.\n\nOn April 14, 2017, the Twitter account used by The Shadow Brokers posted a tweet with a link to the Steem blockchain. Herein, a message with a link to the leak files, encrypted with the password codice_4.\n\nThe overall content is based around three folders: \"oddjob\", \"swift\" and \"windows\". The fifth leak is suggested to be the \"...most damaging release yet\" and CNN quoted Matthew Hickey saying, \"This is quite possibly the most damaging thing I've seen in the last several years,\".\n\nThe leak includes, amongst other things, the tools and exploits codenamed: DANDERSPIRITZ, ODDJOB, FUZZBUNCH, DARKPULSAR, ETERNALSYNERGY, ETERNALROMANCE, ETERNALBLUE, EXPLODINGCAN and EWOKFRENZY.\n\nSome of the exploits targeting the Windows operating system, had been patched in a Microsoft Security Bulletin on March 14, 2017, one month before the leak occurred. Some speculated that Microsoft may have been tipped off about the release of the exploits.\n\nOver 200,000 machines were infected with tools from this leak within the first two weeks, and in May 2017, the major WannaCry ransomware attack used the ETERNALBLUE exploit on Server Message Block (SMB) to spread itself. The exploit was also used to help carry out the 2017 Petya cyberattack on June 27, 2017.\n\nETERNALBLUE contains kernel shellcode to load the non-persistent DoublePulsar backdoor. This allows for the installation of the PEDDLECHEAP payload which would then be accessed by the attacker using the DanderSpritz Listening Post (LP) software.\n\nJames Bamford along with Matt Suiche speculated that an insider, \"possibly someone assigned to the [NSA's] highly sensitive Tailored Access Operations\", stole the hacking tools. In October 2016, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Harold T. Martin III, a former contractor for Booz Allen Hamilton accused of stealing approximately 50 terabytes of data from the National Security Agency (NSA), was the lead suspect. The Shadow Brokers continued posting messages that were cryptographically-signed and were interviewed by media while Martin was detained.\n\nEdward Snowden stated on Twitter on August 16, 2016 that \"circumstantial evidence and conventional wisdom indicates Russian responsibility\" and that the leak \"is likely a warning that someone can prove US responsibility for any attacks that originated from this malware server\" summarizing that it looks like \"somebody sending a message that an escalation in the attribution game could get messy fast\".\n\n\"The New York Times\" put the incident in the context of the Democratic National Committee cyber attacks and hacking of the Podesta emails. As US intelligence agencies were contemplating counter-attacks, the Shadow Brokers code release was to be seen as a warning: \"Retaliate for the D.N.C., and there are a lot more secrets, from the hackings of the State Department, the White House and the Pentagon, that might be spilled as well. One senior official compared it to the scene in \"The Godfather\" where the head of a favorite horse is left in a bed, as a warning.\"\n"}
{"id": "1023278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1023278", "title": "Thomas DiLorenzo", "text": "Thomas DiLorenzo\n\nThomas James DiLorenzo (; born August 8, 1954) is an American economics professor at Loyola University Maryland Sellinger School of Business. He identifies himself as an adherent of the Austrian School of economics. He is a research fellow at The Independent Institute, a senior fellow of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, Board of Advisors member at CFACT, and an associate of the Abbeville Institute. He holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Virginia Tech.\n\nThomas James DiLorenzo grew up in western Pennsylvania, descended from Italian immigrants. In an autobiographical essay he attributes his early commitment to individualism to \"playing competitive sports.\" His view of politicians in the small western cities of the state was that they were in it for personal aggrandizement. He thought his family and neighbors worked hard and perceived other people getting advantages from the government. As a youth in the 1960s, he began to think that the \"government was busy destroying the work ethic, the family, and the criminal justice system.\" Although too young to worry about the Vietnam War draft, he concluded that other young men turned themselves inside out to avoid it, or came back silenced by what they had done and seen. These conclusions led him to the opinion that politics were \"evil\".\n\nDiLorenzo began to study libertarianism in college, which he says helped him gain perspective on his developing ideas. He has a B.A. in economics from Westminster College in Pennsylvania. He holds a Ph.D. in Economics from Virginia Tech.\n\nDiLorenzo has taught at the State University of New York at Buffalo, George Mason University. and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.\n\nHe is a former adjunct fellow of the Center for the Study of American Business at Washington University in St. Louis Since 1992, he has been a professor of economics at Loyola University Maryland Sellinger School of Business.\n\nDiLorenzo is a frequent speaker at von Mises Institute events, and offers several online courses on political subjects on the Mises Academy platform. He also writes for the blog, LewRockwell.com.\n\nDiLorenzo writes about what he calls \"the myth of Lincoln\" in American history and politics. He has said, \"[President] Lincoln is on record time after time rejecting the idea of racial equality. But whenever anyone brings this up, the Lincoln partisans go to the extreme to smear the bearer of bad news.\" DiLorenzo has also spoken out in favor of the secession of the Confederate States of America, defending the right of these states to secede.\n\nDiLorenzo is critical of neoconservatism and endless military interventionism. He has also made the case about how the military does not protect the U.S. and how it lies about it.\n\nDiLorenzo's book, \"The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War\" is a critical biography published in 2002. In a review published by the Ludwig von Mises Institute, David Gordon described DiLorenzo's thesis: Lincoln was a \"white supremacist\" with no principled interest in abolishing slavery, and believed in a strong central government that imposed high tariffs and a nationalized banking system. He attributes the South's secession to Lincoln's economic policies rather than a desire to preserve slavery. Gordon quotes DiLorenzo: \"slavery was already in sharp decline in the border states and the upper South generally, mostly for economic reasons\". While this was true, in the Deep South slavery was profitable and an integral part of both the agricultural and industrial economy, as slaves worked in factories, in shipping, as artisans and skilled workers, in addition to field labor. The slave markets and associated businesses had made New Orleans the 4th-largest city in the nation and the wealthiest by 1840.\n\nWriting for \"The Daily Beast\", Rich Lowry described DiLorenzo's technique in this book as the following: \"His scholarship, such as it is, consists of rummaging through the record for anything he can find to damn Lincoln, stripping it of any nuance or context, and piling on pejorative adjectives. In DiLorenzo, the Lincoln-haters have found a champion with the judiciousness and the temperament they deserve.\"\n\nReviewing for \"The Independent Review\", a think tank associated with DiLorenzo, Richard M. Gamble described the book \"travesty of historical method and documentation\". He said the book was plagued by a \"labyrinth of [historical and grammatical] errors\", and concluded that DiLorenzo has \"earned the ... ridicule of his critics.\" In his review for the Claremont Institute, Ken Masugi writes that \"DiLorenzo adopts as his own the fundamental mistake of leftist multi-culturalist historians: confusing the issue of race with the much more fundamental one, which was slavery.\" He noted that in Illinois \"the anti-slavery forces actually joined with racists to keep their state free of slavery, and also free of blacks.\" Masugi called DiLorenzo's work \"shabby\" and stated that DiLorenzo's treatment of Lincoln was \"feckless\" and that the book is \"truly awful\". In 2002, DiLorenzo debated Claremont Institute fellow professor Harry V. Jaffa on the merits of Abraham Lincoln's statesmanship before and during the Civil War.\n\nDiLorenzo's book, \"Lincoln Unmasked: What You're Not Supposed to Know About Dishonest Abe\" (2007), continues his explorations begun in \"The Real Lincoln.\" In a review, David Gordon stated that DiLorenzo's thesis in the 2007 volume was that Lincoln opposed the extension of slavery to new states because black labor would compete with white labor; that Lincoln hoped that all blacks would eventually be deported to Africa in order that white laborers could have more work. According to Gordon, DiLorenzo states that Lincoln supported emancipation of slaves only as a wartime expedient to help defeat the South.\n\nReviews in \"The Washington Post\" and \"Publishers Weekly\" both stated that the book seemed directed at unnamed scholars who had praised Lincoln's contributions. Justin Ewers criticized DiLorenzo, saying this book \"is more of a diatribe against a mostly unnamed group of Lincoln scholars than a real historical analysis. His wild assertions – for example, that Lincoln held 'lifelong white supremacist views' – don't help his argument.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" described this as a \"screed,\" in which DiLorenzo \"charges that most scholars of the Civil War are part of a 'Lincoln cult';\" he particularly attacks scholar Eric Foner, characterizing him and other as \"cover-up artists\" and \"propagandists.\"\n\nIn a 2009 review of three newly published books on Lincoln, historian Brian Dirck linked the earlier work of Thomas DiLorenzo with that of Lerone Bennett, another critic of Lincoln. He wrote that \"Few Civil War scholars take Bennett and DiLorenzo seriously, pointing to their narrow political agenda and faulty research.\"\n\nControversy arose in 2011 when DiLorenzo testified before the House Financial Services Committee at the request of former U.S. Congressman Ron Paul. During the hearing, Congressman Lacy Clay criticized DiLorenzo for his associations with the League of the South, which Clay described as a \"neo-Confederate group\". In \"Reuters\" and \"Baltimore Sun\" articles about the hearing, a Southern Poverty Law Center story about DiLorenzo's connection with the League was mentioned. \"Washington Post\" columnist Dana Milbank wrote about Clay's remarks and he said the League of the South was listing DiLorenzo on its Web site as an 'affiliated scholar' as recently as 2008.\n\nDiLorenzo denied any affiliation with the group, telling a \"Baltimore Sun\" reporter that \"I don't endorse what they say and do any more than I endorse what Congress says and does because I spoke at a hearing on Wednesday.\" An investigation was subsequently conducted by his employer. In a LewRockwell.com column, he described his association with the League as limited to \"a few lectures on the economics of the Civil War\" he gave to The League of the South Institute about thirteen years ago. In a 2005 LewRockwell.com article, DiLorenzo endorsed the League's social and political views, stating that it \"advocates peace and prosperity in the tradition of a George Washington or a Thomas Jefferson\".\n\nDiLorenzo has authored several books, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "52032345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52032345", "title": "Walter MacDougall", "text": "Walter MacDougall\n\nWalter Batchelor MacDougall (6 April 1907 – 5 May 1976) was an Australian missionary and patrol officer who worked with the indigenous peoples in the desert regions of Western Australia and South Australia\n\nMacDougall was born in Mornington, the fifth son of a Scottish Presbyterian minister. After some years in Tasmania, his family returned to Melbourne where he matriculated from Scotch College in 1922. For eight years (1931–1939) he served as an assistant minister at the Presbyterian mission at Port George IV (Kunmunya) in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. In 1940 he took up an appointment at the Ernabella mission in the north western corner of South Australia, and picked up a working knowledge of Pitjantjatjara. Despite a physical disability from a bullet wound to his hand, which resulted in his losing a thumb and finger, he managed to be enlisted in the army and worked in a transport division in northern Australia until his discharge in 1944.\n\nIn 1947 he was hired to work, on the basis of his extensive experience with aboriginal communities, as a patrol officer attached to the Woomera Test Range. As Britain began to undertake weapons testing and experiments on the atomic bomb at Emu Field and Maralinga, MacDougall was delegated to shift people out of the affected area down to the Yalata. In 1956 he was promoted to the position of Protector of Aborigines in Western Australia and by that time was responsible for patrolling some 400,000 sq. miles of desert terrain, together with a new officer, Robert Macauley, with whom he had personal differences.\n\nMacDougall was of the opinion that the aboriginal population should be gradually assimilated into the mainstream. He went on record as stating that:'We have taken away their beliefs and customs and trespassed on their lands, and we have a moral obligation to give them something in return'. At the same time, he found himself at odds with officials overseeing areas where military installations were planned and armament experiments conducted. MacDougall surveyed specific localities containing ceremonial zones and sacred sites to inform the government authorities to avoid intruding there to avoid giving offense. He was strongly opposed to the establishment of the Giles Weather Station in the Rawlinson Ranges since it lay on tribal land. The authorities feared him for his forthright criticism based on a deep knowledge of the indigenous societies. He threatened to go to the newspapers on one occasion and was warned not to meddle with political or policy issues.\n\nMacDougall retired after 25 years of service and died of a combination of pneumonia and pericarditis at Heidelberg in 1976. His biographer W.H. Edwards cites as a suitable, complimentary epitaph for MacDougall was a hostile put-down made by a scientist involved in the atomic arms testing. MacDougall had placed:\n'the affairs of a handful of natives above those of the British Commonwealth of Nations'.\n\n"}
