{"id": "8790044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8790044", "title": "2006 O'Hare International Airport UFO sighting", "text": "2006 O'Hare International Airport UFO sighting\n\nThe Chicago O'Hare UFO sighting occurred on November 7, 2006, when people at Chicago O'Hare International Airport reported seeing a saucer or disc-shaped UFO.\n\nAt approximately 16:15 CST on Tuesday, November 7, 2006, federal authorities at Chicago O'Hare International Airport received a report that a group of twelve airport employees were witnessing a metallic, saucer-shaped craft hovering over Gate C-17.\n\nThe object was first spotted by a ramp employee who was pushing back United Airlines Flight 446, which was departing Chicago for Charlotte, North Carolina. The employee apprised Flight 446's crew of the object above their aircraft. It is believed that both the pilot and co-pilot also witnessed the object.\n\nSeveral independent witnesses outside of the airport also saw the object. One described a \"blatant\" disc-shaped craft hovering over the airport which was \"obviously not clouds.\" According to this witness, nearby observers gasped as the object shot through the clouds at high velocity, leaving a clear blue hole in the cloud layer. The hole reportedly seemed to close itself shortly afterward.\n\nAccording to the \"Chicago Tribune\"'s Jon Hilkevitch, \"The disc was visible for approximately five minutes and was seen by close to a dozen United Airlines employees, ranging from pilots to supervisors, who heard chatter on the radio and raced out to view it.\" So far, no photographic evidence of the UFO has surfaced, although it was reported to Hilkevitch that one of the United Airlines pilots was in possession of a digital camera at the time of the sighting and may have photographed the event. NARCAP has published a 155-page report, suggesting a presence of the object in account over O'Hare and has called for a government inquiry and improved energy-sensing technologies: “Anytime an airborne object can hover for several minutes over a busy airport but not be registered on radar or seen visually from the control tower, (it) constitutes a potential threat to flight safety.”\n\nBoth United Airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) first denied that they had any information on the O'Hare UFO sighting until the \"Chicago Tribune\", which was investigating the report, filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. The FAA then ordered an internal review of air-traffic communications tapes to comply with the \"Tribune\" FOIA request which subsequently uncovered a call by the United supervisor to an FAA manager in the airport tower concerning the UFO sighting.\n\nThe FAA stance concludes that the sighting was caused by a weather phenomenon and that the agency would not be investigating the incident. UFO investigators have pointed out that this stance is a direct contradiction to the FAA's mandate to investigate possible security breaches at American airports such as in this case; an object witnessed by numerous airport employees and officially reported by at least one of them, hovering in plain sight, over one of the busiest airports in the world. Some witnesses interviewed by the \"Tribune\" were apparently \"upset\" that federal officials declined to further investigate the matter, while tower controllers joked about a UFO making such a huge trip to O'Hare to return to its home because the airport gate was busy.\n\nThe Chicago O'Hare airport UFO story was picked up by various major mainstream media groups such as CNN, CBS, MSNBC, Fox News, \"The Chicago Tribune\", and NPR.\n\nOn February 11, 2009, The History Channel aired an episode of the television show \"UFO Hunters\" with the title \"Aliens at the Airport\" in which they reviewed the incident.\n\nThe Movie \"UFO (2018)\" was loosely based on this account.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50317424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50317424", "title": "ACAR Ground Surveillance Radar", "text": "ACAR Ground Surveillance Radar\n\nACAR is a surveillance radar, designed and manufactured by ASELSAN A.Ş, a Turkish corporation that produces electronic systems for the Turkish Armed Forces.\n\nIts main role is ground surveillance and artillery fire adjustment.\n\nACAR detects, tracks and classifies moving targets. It is also used for artillery fire adjustment, providing feedback on the fall of shot with respect to the intended target. It can be operated as a stand-alone system, or can be integrated onto vehicles, elevated masts or towers. It can be integrated with command & control systems\n\n"}
{"id": "55698393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55698393", "title": "Alex Boncayao Brigade", "text": "Alex Boncayao Brigade\n\nThe Alex Boncayao Brigade, also known by the acronym ABB, was the urban assassination unit of the New People's Army, the armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines. Organized in 1984, the unit broke away from the New People's Army as a consequence of a split in ideology during the 1990s. In 1997, the Alex Boncayao Brigade allied itself with the Revolutionary Proletarian Army, the armed wing of the Revolutionary Workers' Party. \n\nThe Alex Boncayao Brigade was established in May 1984 and was named after a labor leader killed by Philippine government security forces the year before. The brigade became especially active after the departure of then-President Ferdinand Marcos as a consequence of the People Power Revolution, and during the term of President Corazon Aquino.\nIn 1993, Filemon Lagman and several cadre of the Manila-Rizal regional committee of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) broke away from the mainstream group, taking the Alex Boncayao Brigade with them. In 1994, Lagman was arrested in Quezon City, putting a damper on the brigade's activities. The ABB itself, headed by Nilo dela Cruz, would eventually split from Lagman in 1997 after an internal rift. Lagman would later give up the armed struggle and become a labor union organizer. He was assassinated in 2000, allegedly by members of his former revolutionary group.\n\nNilo dela Cruz, using the alias \"Sergio Romero\", was arrested that same year in Bulacan after crashing his car while being pursued by government intelligence agents. It would later be revealed that Dela Cruz had allied the ABB with the Revolutionary Proletarian Army, forming the Revolutionary Proletarian Army - Alex Boncayao Brigade. This was not the first time Dela Cruz had been arrested, or used an alias; in the 1970s he had been detained in the Youth Rehabilitation Center at Fort Bonifacio under the alias \"Mario Saldaña\". He had kept a low profile then and his true identity was never discovered. In 2003 it was reported that Dela Cruz had \"shifted from terrorist activities as leader of the ABB to organizing the labor forces of the Philippines into trade unions\".\n\nThe Alex Boncayao Brigade is credited with the assassinations of nearly 200 police officers from 1984 until 1993. In 1984, the ABB claimed responsibility for the assassination of Police General Tomas Karingal, a former Chief of the Quezon City Police Department. In 1989, they claimed responsibility for the assassination of United States Army Colonel James N. Rowe, an adviser to the Philippine Army. Consequently, the US government added the ABB to its Patriot Act Terrorist Exclusion List in 2001.\n\nIn 1996, the ABB also claimed responsibility for the assassination of Philippine Constabulary Lt. Col. Rolando Abadilla, a former chief of the Metrocom Intelligence and Security Group. As proof of the deed, they turned over the late Abadilla's wristwatch to a Catholic priest, Fr. Robert Reyes.\n\nIn 2000 a rifle grenade attack was carried out against the Department of Energy in Manila and Shell Oil offices in the Visayas were strafed. The group claimed credit for the attacks to protest rising oil prices.\n\nIn 2000, Nilo dela Cruz of the ABB and Arturo Tabara, leader of the Revolutionary Proletarian Army, announced their intention to engage in peace talks with the government of Joseph Estrada; this resulted in a truce with the Philippine Army in December 2000. This in turn prompted a vehement condemnation from Filemon Lagman; in a press release he branded Tabara and Dela Cruz \"scoundrels masquerading as revolutionaries\".\n\nA film entitled \"Alex Boncayao Brigade: The Liquidation Arm of the NPA\" starring Ronnie Ricketts was released in 1988.\n"}
{"id": "52821773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52821773", "title": "American Innovation and Competitiveness Act", "text": "American Innovation and Competitiveness Act\n\nThe American Innovation and Competitiveness Act (\"AICA\") is a United States federal law enacted in 2017.\n\nThe act updated instructions to the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to conduct and support research on cybersecurity and cryptography. It created a Director of Security at NIST. It revised the program requirements on the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development program which coordinates advanced computer research across U.S. government agencies. It assigned to the Office of Management and Budget a responsibility to create an interagency working group to reduce administrative burdens on federally-funded researchers.\n\nThe act authorizes creation of an interagency advisory panel and working groups to consider education for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields.\n\nThe act supports the coordination of citizen science and crowdsourcing by Federal agencies to accomplish their missions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20041858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20041858", "title": "Arab International Women's Forum", "text": "Arab International Women's Forum\n\nArab International Women's Forum (Arabic: منتدى العالمي للنساء العربيات ) or AIWF is a London-based umbrella organisation which brings together 1,500 associations, individuals, corporations and partnerships from 45 countries. The AIWF aims to brings equal rights to men and women in the workforce, and in society in general.\n\nThe Forum was founded in 2001 by Haifa Fahoum Al Kaylani, who began with the vision of putting to help Arab women become \"part and parcel of the international community\". She put together a formal network of Arab and international businesswomen as well as female community leaders to expand the growing role of women in the global marketplace and decision-making. Al Kaylani is also member of the Suzanne Mubarak Women's International Peace Movement and is also a member of the Women's Leadership Board at the Harvard University.\n\nThe AIWF 2005 report called \"Engines of economic growth in the Arab world\" suggested that Arab men be given paternal leave from work to look after children rather than leaving all the work to women, through role balancing.\n\nIn 2011, the AIWF launched the Young Arab Women Leaders initiative to specifically support young Arab women. The 10th edition was held in 2017 at the London Royal Academy of Engineering.\n\nOne idea is that women are given educational and working opportunities meaning that they will be able to make their mark in society as a whole and as individuals. By allowing women to educate themselves and give them more access to computers, technology and university scholarships they can achieve business, educational and governmental roles. Businesses and organisations have been able to contact and associate with people in their same position located in other countries. Arab women residing in Britain and Europe can now make business engagements with ladies in the Middle East giving them more potential for business and community work and profit.\n\n"}
{"id": "152417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152417", "title": "Austrian People's Party", "text": "Austrian People's Party\n\nThe Austrian People's Party (; ÖVP) is a Christian-democratic and conservative political party in Austria. A successor to the Christian Social Party of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, it was founded immediately following the reestablishment of the Republic of Austria in 1945 and since then has been one of the two largest Austrian political parties with the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ). In federal governance, the ÖVP has spent most of the postwar era in a grand coalition with the SPÖ. Most recently, it has been junior partner in a coalition government with the SPÖ since 2007. However, the ÖVP won the 2017 election, having the greatest number of seats and formed a coalition with the national-conservative Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ). Its chairman Sebastian Kurz is the youngest Chancellor in Austrian history.\n\nThe ÖVP is conservative. For most of its existence, it has explicitly defined itself as Catholic and anti-socialist, with the ideal of subsidiarity as defined by the encyclical \"Quadragesimo anno\". The party is sometimes compared to the CDU/CSU of Germany in terms of ideology, with both operating as catch-all parties of the centre-right.\n\nFor the first election after World War II, the ÖVP presented itself as the Austrian Party (German: \"die österreichische Partei\"), was decidedly anti-Marxist and regarded itself as the Party of the Centre (German: \"Partei der Mitte\"). The ÖVP consistently held power—either alone or in so-called Black-Red coalition with the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ)—until 1970, when the SPÖ formed a minority government with the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ). The ÖVP's economic policies during the era generally upheld a social market economy.\n\n, with regard to economic policy the party advocates economic liberalization, endorsing the reduction of Austria's relatively large public sector, welfare reform and general deregulation. With regard to foreign affairs, it strongly supports European integration.\n\nThe party's campaign for the 2017 general election under the young chairman Sebastian Kurz was dominated by a promised crackdown on illegal immigration and the fight against political Islam, similar to the program of the FPÖ, the party that Kurz chose as coalition partner after he has won the election.\n\nThe ÖVP is the successor of the Christian Social Party, a staunchly conservative movement founded in 1893 by Karl Lueger, mayor of Vienna and highly controversial right-wing populist. Most of the members of the party during its founding belonged to the former Fatherland Front, which was led by chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, also a member of the Christian Social Party before the Anschluss. While still sometimes honored by ÖVP members for resisting Adolf Hitler, the regime built by Dollfuss was authoritarian in nature and has been dubbed as Austrofascism. In its present form, the ÖVP was established immediately after the restoration of Austria's independence in 1945 and it has been represented in both the Federal Assembly ever since. In terms of Federal Assembly seats, the ÖVP has consistently been the strongest or second-strongest party and as such it has led or at least been a partner in most Austria's federal cabinets.\n\nIn November 1945, the ÖVP won a sweeping victory in Austria's first postwar election, winning almost half the popular vote and an absolute majority in the legislature. However, memories of the hyperpartisanship that had plagued the First Republic prompted the ÖVP to maintain the grand coalition with the Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ) that had governed the country since the restoration of independence in early 1945. The ÖVP remained the senior partner in this coalition until 1966 and governed alone from 1966 to 1970. It reentered the government in 1986, but has never been completely out of power since the restoration of Austrian independence in 1945 due to a longstanding tradition that all major interest groups were to be consulted on policy.\n\nAfter the 1999 legislative election, several months of negotiations ended in early 2000 when the ÖVP formed a coalition government with the right-wing populist Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) led by Jörg Haider. The FPÖ had won just a few hundred more votes than the ÖVP, but was considered far too controversial to lead a government. The ÖVP's Wolfgang Schüssel became Chancellor—the first ÖVP Chancellor of Austria since 1970. This caused widespread outrage in Europe and the European Union imposed informal diplomatic sanctions on Austria, the first time that it imposed sanctions on a member state. Bilateral relations were frozen (including contacts and meetings at an inter-governmental level) and Austrian candidates would not be supported for posts in European Union international offices. Austria threatened to veto all applications by countries for European Union membership until the sanctions were lifted. A few months later, these sanctions were dropped as a result of a fact-finding mission by three former European prime ministers, the so-called \"three wise men\". The 2002 legislative election resulted in a landslide victory (42.27% of the vote) for the ÖVP under Schüssel. Haider's FPÖ was reduced to 10.16% of the vote.\n\nAfter the Alliance for the Future of Austria (BZÖ) split from the FPÖ in 2005, the BZÖ replaced the FPÖ in the government coalition, which lasted until 2007. Austria for the first time had a government containing of a party that was founded during the parliamentary term.\n\nIn the 2006 legislative election, the ÖVP were defeated and after much negotiations agreed to become junior partner in a grand coalition with the SPÖ, with new party chairman Wilhelm Molterer as Finance Minister and Vice Chancellor under SPÖ leader Alfred Gusenbauer, who became Chancellor. The next legislative election in 2008 saw the ÖVP lose 15 seats with an 8.35% decrease in its share of the vote.\n\nThe ÖVP won the largest share of the vote (30.0%) in the 2009 European elections with 846,709, votes but their number of seats remained the same.\n\nAt the state level, the ÖVP has long dominated the rural states of Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Salzburg, Styria, Tyrol and Vorarlberg. It is less popular in the city state of Vienna and in the rural, but less strongly Catholic states of Burgenland and Carinthia. In 2004, it lost its plurality in the State of Salzburg, where they kept its result in seats (14) in 2009 and in 2005 in Styria for the first time.\n\nThe chart below shows a timeline of ÖVP chairpersons and the Chancellors of Austria. The left black bar shows all the chairpersons (\"Bundesparteiobleute\", abbreviated as CP) of the ÖVP party and the right bar shows the corresponding make-up of the Austrian government at that time. The red (SPÖ) and black (ÖVP) colours correspond to which party led the federal government (\"Bundesregierung\", abbreviated as Govern). The last names of the respective Chancellors are shown, with the Roman numeral standing for the cabinets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49091351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49091351", "title": "Badr al-Hammami", "text": "Badr al-Hammami\n\nBadr ibn ʿAbdallāh al-Ḥammāmī, also known as Badr al-Kabīr (\"Badr the Elder\"), was a general who served the Tulunids and later the Abbasids.\n\nOf Greek origin, Badr was originally a slave of the founder of the Tulunid regime, Ahmad ibn Tulun, who later set him free. In September 893, along with Muhammad ibn Abba, and the governor of Tarsus, Ahmad ibn Tughan al-Ujayfi, Badr led an expedition against the Byzantine Empire, reaching as far as al-Balaqsun (unidentified, possibly Carian or Lycian Telmessos). Following the death of Ibn Tulun's son Khumarawayh in 896, many Tulunid officers left Egypt and defected to the Abbasids. Badr remained behind, and ranked, along with Faik and Safi, as one of the principal commanders; each of them commanding a portion of the army, they were able to force the Tulunid government to hand over the revenue necessary to continue paying their troops, whose total loyalty they thus secured. Consequently, they, and Badr in particular, were among the main rivals of Muhammad ibn Abba, who acted as the regent of the underage emir Harun ibn Khumarawayh.\n\nIn 902, he led a relief army from Egypt to confront the Qarmatians under Yahya ibn Zikrawayh (the \"Master of the She-camel\"), who had attacked Syria in 902 and besieged Tughj ibn Juff in Damascus. The two Tulunid commanders fought with the Qarmatians before the gates of the city and managed to kill the Qarmatian leader, but nevertheless lost the battle. Yahya was succeeded by his brother, Husayn (the \"Man with the Mole\"), who proceeded to lay waste to much of Syria in 902–903. Sometime before late August 903, however, he scored a big victory against the Qarmatians, killing many and driving the rest into the desert. This event is only known from a dispatch sent to Baghdad, briefly mentioned by al-Tabari. This success was soon followed by the decisive victory of the Abbasid army at the Battle of Hama in November, which led to the capture and execution of Husayn and the senior Qarmatian leaders.\n\nIn autumn 904, the Abbasids under Muhammad ibn Sulayman al-Katib launched a campaign to recover Egypt and end the Tulunid regime. When Muhammad arrived at the borders of Egypt in November, Badr went over to him. The defection of the most senior commander was soon followed by other Tulunid officers, and when Harun ibn Khumarawayh was killed by one of his own men, the regime collapsed into anarchy, and Muhammad entered Fustat without opposition. Now in Abbasid service, in August 905 Badr received robes of honour from Caliph al-Muktafi, and was sent as deputy and advisor to another commander, Fatik, to confront the rebellion of a former Tulunid officer, Ibrahim al-Khaliji, who had seized much of the country along with Fustat.\n\nIn 914, he was governor of Fars. Following the assassination of the Samanid ruler Ahmad ibn Isma'il and the accession of his underage son, the Samanid regime was weakened. Badr used the opportunity to re-assert Abbasid control over Sistan, sending Fadl ibn Hamid there as his deputy. This success was short-lived, however, and the province soon fell back into the hands of local warlords, until the emergence of Kathir ibn Ahmad as its ruler in 917. In October 917, Badr was placed in charge of 5,000 men and sent to pursue the rebel leader Abdalla ibn Ibrahim al-Misma'i and his Kurdish followers near Isbahan.\n\nBadr died in 923.\n\n"}
{"id": "21489792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21489792", "title": "Basic People's Congress (political)", "text": "Basic People's Congress (political)\n\nThe Basic Peoples Congress, or Fundamental Popular Council (), was the smallest unit of government in Libya under Muammar Gaddafi's Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. It usually governed the equivalent of a municipality, and that geographic subdivision was also called a Basic Peoples Congress.\n\nThe congress consisted of every man and woman who has attained the age of majority. The actual congress met at three scheduled meetings per year or as called upon by necessity. The first meeting was usually devoted to a detailed agenda for the next two meetings. At the second meeting the Basic People's Congress discussed issues relating to the local business, while at the third meeting seats on committees were filled, representatives elected and policy at the national and international level were discussed. Day-to-day management and oversight was provided by the people's committee appointed by the congress. The next political level up was the district congresses and then above that was the General People's Congress at the top.\n\n"}
{"id": "35223002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35223002", "title": "Cash for access", "text": "Cash for access\n\nCash for access refers to scandals involving the clandestine receipt of money for delivering meetings with senior office-holders. Examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1653053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653053", "title": "Chicago Climate Exchange", "text": "Chicago Climate Exchange\n\nThe Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) was North America’s only voluntary, legally binding greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction and trading system for emission sources and offset projects in North America and Brazil.\n\nCCX employed independent verification, included six greenhouse gases, and traded greenhouse gas emission allowances from 2003 to 2010. The companies joining the exchange committed to reducing their aggregate emissions by 6% by 2010. CCX had an aggregate baseline of 680 million metric tons of CO equivalent.\n\nCCX ceased trading carbon credits at the end of 2010 due to inactivity in the U.S. carbon markets, although carbon exchanges were intended to still be facilitated.\n\nUntil July 2010, CCX was operated by the public company Climate Exchange PLC, which also owned the European Climate Exchange. Richard Sandor, creator of the Sustainable Performance Group, founded the exchange and has been a spokesman for it. The exchange traded in emissions of six gases: carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, sulfur hexafluoride, perfluorocarbons, and hydrofluorocarbons. CCX started trading in October 2003, prior to the commencement of trading in the European Union through the ETS system.\n\nIntercontinentalExchange (), a leading operator of regulated global futures exchanges, clearing houses and over-the-counter (OTC) markets, announced in April 2010 that it had agreed on terms to acquire Climate Exchange plc. That acquisition was completed in July 2010 and was followed by an announcement that half of the company's Chicago-based workforce would be laid off due to inactivity in the U.S. carbon markets. In November 2010, the Climate Exchange stated that it would cease trading carbon credits at the end of 2010, although carbon exchanges will still be facilitated.\n\nThe effective final CFI position was reached in November 2010 when the carbon credit price per metric ton of CO2 was between 10 and 5 US Cents, down from its highest value of 750 US Cents in May 2008. Trading reached zero monthly volume in February 2010 and remained at zero for the next 9 months when the decision to close the exchange was announced.\n\nThe \"Carbon Sequestration Atlas of the United States and Canada\" detailed some of CCX's activity in various regions of North America.\n\nThe Valley Wood Carbon Sequestration Project, the first such project to be verified through the Chicago Climate Exchange, was the recipient of offset funding generated through a unique partnership, developed in 2008 by Verus Carbon Neutral, that brought together 17 merchants of Atlanta's Virginia-Highland shopping and dining neighborhood retail district to establish the first Carbon Neutral Zone in the united States.\n\nThe Trading System had the following three parts.\n\n\nThe exchange had more than 400 members ranging from corporations like Ford, DuPont, and Motorola, to state and municipalities such as Oakland and Chicago, to educational institutions such as University of California, San Diego, Tufts University, Michigan State University and University of Minnesota, to farmers and their organizations, such as the National Farmers Union and the Iowa Farm Bureau.\n\nThe government run passenger rail corporation, Amtrak, was also a member of the exchange and was trying to reduce its emissions even though the railroad planned to dramatically increase its annual ridership totals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52234", "title": "Chief executive officer", "text": "Chief executive officer\n\nThe chief executive officer (CEO), or just chief executive (CE), is the most senior corporate, executive, or administrative officer in charge of managing an organization especially an independent legal entity such as a company or nonprofit institution. CEOs lead a range of organizations, including public and private corporations, non-profit organizations and even some government organizations (e.g., Crown corporations). The CEO of a corporation or company typically reports to the board of directors and is charged with maximizing the value of the entity, which may include maximizing the share price, market share, revenues, or another element. In the non-profit and government sector, CEOs typically aim at achieving outcomes related to the organization's mission, such as reducing poverty, increasing literacy, etc.\n\nIn the early 21st century, top executives typically had technical degrees in science, engineering, or law.\n\nThe responsibility of an organization's CEO are set by the organization's board of directors or other authority, depending on the organization's legal structure. They can be far-reaching or quite limited and are typically enshrined in a formal delegation of authority. Typically, responsibilities include being a decision maker on strategy and other key policy issues, leader, manager, and executor. The communicator role can involve speaking to the press and the rest of the outside world, as well as to the organization's management and employees; the decision-making role involves high-level decisions about policy and strategy. As a leader of the company, the CEO or MD advises the board of directors, motivates employees, and drives change within the organization. As a manager, the CEO/MD presides over the organization's day-to-day operations. The term refers to the person who makes all the key decisions regarding the company, which includes all sectors and fields of the business, including operations, marketing, business development, finance, human resources, etc. The CEO of a company is not necessarily the owner of the company.\n\nIn some countries, there is a dual board system with two separate boards, one executive board for the day-to-day business and one supervisory board for control purposes (selected by the shareholders). In these countries, the CEO presides over the executive board and the chairman presides over the supervisory board, and these two roles will always be held by different people. This ensures a distinction between management by the executive board and governance by the supervisory board. This allows for clear lines of authority. The aim is to prevent a conflict of interest and too much power being concentrated in the hands of one person.\n\nIn the United States, the board of directors (elected by the shareholders) is often equivalent to the supervisory board, while the executive board may often be known as the executive committee (the division/subsidiary heads and C-level officers that report directly to the CEO).\n\nIn the United States, and in business, the executive officers are usually the top officers of a corporation, the chief executive officer (CEO) being the best-known type. The definition varies; for instance, the California Corporate Disclosure Act defines \"executive officers\" as the five most highly compensated officers not also sitting on the board of directors. In the case of a sole proprietorship, an executive officer is the sole proprietor. In the case of a partnership, an executive officer is a managing partner, senior partner, or administrative partner. In the case of a limited liability company, executive officer is any member, manager, or officer.\n\nTypically, a CEO has several subordinate executives, each of whom has specific functional responsibilities referred to as senior executives, executive officers or corporate officers. Subordinate executives are given different titles in different organizations, but one common category of subordinate executive, if the CEO is also the president, is the vice-president (VP). An organization may have more than one vice-president, each tasked with a different area of responsibility (e.g., VP of finance, VP of human resources, VP of research and development). Some organizations have subordinate executive officers who also have the word \"chief\" in their job title, such as chief operating officer (COO), chief financial officer (CFO) and chief technology officer (CTO).\n\nIn the US, the term \"chief executive officer\" is used primarily in business, whereas the term \"executive director\" is used primarily in the not-for-profit sector. These terms are generally mutually exclusive and refer to distinct legal duties and responsibilities. Implicit in the use of these titles, is that the public not be misled and the general standard regarding their use be consistently applied.\n\nIn the UK, \"chief executive\" and \"chief executive officer\" are used in both business and the charitable sector. , the use of the term \"director\" for senior charity staff is deprecated to avoid confusion with the legal duties and responsibilities associated with being a charity director or trustee, which are normally non-executive (unpaid) roles. In the United Kingdom, the term \"director\" is used instead of \"chief officer\".\n\nBusiness publicists since the days of Edward Bernays and his client John D. Rockefeller and even more successfully the corporate publicists for Henry Ford, promoted the concept of the \"celebrity CEO\". Business journalists have often adopted this approach, which assumes that the corporate achievements, especially in the arena of manufacturing, were produced by unique talented individuals, especially the \"heroic CEO\". In effect, journalists celebrate a CEO who takes distinctive strategic actions. The model is the celebrity in entertainment, sports, and politics. Guthey et al. argue that \"...these individuals are not self-made, but rather are created by a process of widespread media exposure to the point that their actions, personalities, and even private lives function symbolically to represent significant dynamics and tensions prevalent in the contemporary business atmosphere.\" Journalism thereby exaggerates the importance of the CEO and tends to neglect the harder-to-describe broader corporate factors. There is little attention to the intricately organized technical bureaucracy that actually does the work. Hubris sets in when the CEO internalizes the celebrity and becomes excessively self-confident in making complex decisions. Indeed, there may be an emphasis on the sort of decisions that attract the celebrity journalists.\n\nExecutive compensation has been a source of criticism following a dramatic rise in pay relative to the average worker's wage. The relative pay was 20-to-1 in 1965 in the US, but rose to 376-to-1 by 2018. The relative pay differs around the world, and in some smaller countries is still around 20-to-1. Observers differ as to whether the rise is due to competition for talent or due to lack of control by compensation committees. In recent years, investors have demanded more say over executive pay.\n\nLack of diversity amongst chief executives has also been a source of criticism. In 2018, 5% of Fortune 500 CEOs were women. The reasons for this are multi factorial, and may include natural sex differences, the existence of old boy networks and the lack of female role models. Some countries have passed laws mandating boardroom gender quotas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10592850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10592850", "title": "Christian Democratic Youth Appeal", "text": "Christian Democratic Youth Appeal\n\nThe Christian Democratic Youth Appeal (Dutch: Christen-Democratische Jongeren Appèl), officially abbreviated as CDJA, is the youth organisation of the political party Christian Democratic Appeal in the Netherlands. It came about via the merging of the political youth organisations ARJOS, CHJO and the KVP-jongerenorganisatie.\n\nThe organisation is affiliated with Christian Democrats locally, nationally and internationally. Throughout the Netherlands there are about fifty divisions active of the CDJA. These organisations are primarily concerned with provincial and local politics.\n\nThe CDJA is involved not only with politics, but also is involved in programmes to increase mutual awareness and connectedness of CDJA youth throughout the organisation. In addition, it offers training and education to young people. While the CDJA is officially independent of the CDA, they do work closely together. While they share the same values, they can differ on opinion on subjects.\n\nLike the CDA the CDJA is a political organization that belongs to the Christian democratic movement. This political movement based on the ideas of the Christian Democracy . This viewpoint includes: public justice, spread responsibility, solidarity and stewardship. Together with the CDA the CDJA see these as essential in politics and society.\n\nThe CDJA is a member of YEPP, the youth organization of the European People's Party. In addition, the CDJA active in organizations such as the YIMD that encourages multi-party democracy in developing countries in Africa and South America.\n\nA number of prominent politicians have been former members, they include:\n\n"}
{"id": "15209792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15209792", "title": "Collusion Syndicate", "text": "Collusion Syndicate\n\nThe Collusion Syndicate, formerly the Collusion Group and sometimes spelled Collu5ion, C0llu5i0n or C011u5i0n, was a Computer Security and Internet Politics Special Interest Group (SIG) founded in 1995 and effectively disbanded around 2002.\n\nThe Collusion Group was founded in 1995 by technologist Tex Mignog, aka the TexorcisT (sic) in Dallas, Texas before moving the headquarters to Austin, Texas in 1997. Founding members included individuals that all operated anonymously using hacker pseudonyms (called \"handles\" or \"nyms\") including the TexorcisT, Progress, Sfear (sic), Anormal, StripE (sic) and Elvirus. The membership of this organization grew to an estimated 30+ by 1999 and was not localized to its headquarters in Austin, Texas, with members in other states, countries and continents. The group made numerous open appearances at computer security events such as H.O.P.E. and DefCon and was often quoted by the media on computer related security, political and cultural issues.\n\nThe group was well known for its online publication, www.Collusion.org and also founded and financed other events such as the \"irQconflict\", the largest seasonal computer gaming tournament in the South-Central US.\n\nThe group was often interviewed with regard to Internet security issues by reporters for a variety of media outlets, some examples being KVUE News\n\nthe Austin American Statesman and Washington Post\nand The New York Times\n\nThe Collusion Syndicate began publishing articles written by its members and others that submitted articles in 1997 on their site, www.Collusion.org, their stated mission being to \"Learn all that is Learnable\".\nThis site won awards including a Best of Austin in 2000 by the Austin Chronicle where the site was described as \"an edgy cabal of net-savvy punks and vinyl-scratching, video-gaming malcontents, laying it down in no uncertain terms with a lot of dark backgrounds and urban-toothed graphics and in-your-face-yo rants.\"\n\nCollusion Syndicate research on SIPRNet has been referenced by the SANS Institute\n\nXchicago has published tips by Collusion's founder, TexorcisT, on Google Hacking.\n\nThe group's work and research is referenced in many books including\nSteal This Computer Book 4.0: What They Won't Tell You about the Internet,\nMac OS X Maximum Security\nand Anarchitexts: Voices from the Global Digital Resistance.\n\nThe group may have been tied to Assassination Politics as evidenced by declassified documents.\n\n1995 - An application developed to point out security issues with the SMTP protocol.\n\n1998 - The Port-A-LAN is described as a \"LAN-in-a-Box\" and designed to facilitate quick network deployments. With Cat 3 50-pin telco cable and break-out \"harmonicas\" to quickly deploy a 160 node network at a previously unwired location in less than one hour. (Developed prior to the advent of WiFi popularity.)\n\n1998-2001 - The Collusion Syndicate hosted the irQconflict\n\n,\nthe largest seasonal computer gaming tournament in the South-Central US. These events were different in that they were very large for LAN party standards (100-200 gamers) and included a rave like atmosphere with DJs, club lighting and projectors showing computer animation and machinima. They took place in various venues in Austin, Texas, utilized Port-A-LAN technology and, due to its size, required the re-engineering of the venues' electrical wiring. These events drew attendance from all over Texas and surrounding states.\nThe Collusion Group took the show on the road in 1999, taking the irQconflict to DefCon 7\n\n, during the gaming.\n\n1999 - The Collusion Syndicate promoted Virtual Sit-ins which are manual DDoS attacks created by hundreds of protesters attempting to overload the servers of the organization they are protesting by repeatedly requesting data, manually.\nSecurityTraq credits this site as providing an early introduction to the concept of Hacktivism and\nthey are referenced in The Internet and Democracy, a paper by Roger Clarke Prepared for IPAA/NOIE and included in a NOIE publication in September 2004.\nThey explanation of Hactivism was published in the Hacktivist and credited in the Ashville Global Report as lately as 2007.\n\n2000 - The Electric Dog is a remote control wireless camera robot created to demonstrate the practicality of simple robotics in routine office technical repair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165903", "title": "Consensus democracy", "text": "Consensus democracy\n\nConsensus democracy is the application of consensus decision-making to the process of legislation in a democracy. It is characterized by a decision-making structure which involves and takes into account as broad a range of opinions as possible, as opposed to systems where minority opinions can potentially be ignored by vote-winning majorities. The latter systems are classified as Majoritarian Democracy.\n\nConsensus democracy also features increased citizen participation both in determining the political agenda and in the decision-making process itself. Some have pointed to developments in information and communication technology as potential facilitators of such systems, for example the usage of DemocracyOS being used in Buenos Aires.\n\nConsensus democracy is most closely embodied in certain countries such as Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Lebanon, Sweden, Iraq, and Belgium, where consensus is an important feature of political culture, particularly with a view to preventing the domination of one linguistic or cultural group in the political process. The term consociational state is used in political science to describe countries with such consensus based political systems. An example of such a system could be the Dutch Poldermodel.\nMany parties in Lebanon call for applying consensus democracy (الديمقراطية التوافقية), especially at times of crisis.\n\nIn Canada, the territorial governments of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut also operate on a consensus model, unlike the oppositional political party structure that prevails elsewhere in Canada.\n\nConsensus (non-party) government operates in Guernsey in the Channel Islands. Guernsey also operates a non-ministerial system of government in which government departments are headed not by ministers with executive authority, but by committees of five members. Members of the committees are elected by the 40-member States of Deliberation, which is both the parliament and the executive. The States of Guernsey (the island's parliament) last endorsed the system of consensus government by committees in 2002, when it rejected, by a very significant majority, a proposition to replace the system with executive/cabinet-style government. In 2004 Guernsey last made changes to its system of government.\n\nAll major items of policy are proposed to the Assembly, by which they are approved, amended or rejected. Most items are determined by simple majority voting. \n\nAt the most recent general election of people's deputies (members), all candidates campaigned as independents without affiliation with any party. Political parties have existed from time to time, but with little success.\n\nIn 2009, a majority of members of Guernsey's parliament signed a letter describing their continuing commitment to consensus government by committees and opposition to executive/cabinet-style government.\n\nAt their meeting on 16 July 2009, the States of Deliberation resolved to establish a Tribunal by the Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence)(Guernsey) Law, 1949, as amended to inquire into the facts and circumstances of the industrial action by the Airport Fire Fighters at Guernsey Airport during May 2009, including the circumstances in which the dispute was resolved. The Resolution followed presentation of a Requête dated 29 June 2009 petitioning for a Tribunal of Inquiry to be established, signed by Deputy M M Lowe and seventeen other members of the States soon after the events being investigated.\n\n\"The Tribunal of Inquiry's Report was published on 23 April 2010 and included the following text:\n\"The failure to deal with the underlying problem, which led to the industrial\naction \"'by the firefighters, stems from the system of government which does not encourage either a corporate approach or collective responsibility. In our view there was a systemic failure to act in a corporate and strategic manner\".\n\nDuring debate on the findings of the Tribunal, it was confirmed that the Tribunal's statements in respect of corporate and strategic planning related only to the topic of industrial relations and were not a more general commentary about the island's system of government.\n\nIn 2010 the island's parliament indicated its continuing endorsement of government by committees and consensus when it approved by a large majority a motion which proposed that governance arrangements should be improved strictly within the existing system of government.\n\nImmediately after the 2012 general election, the States of Deliberation elected a States Review Committee to review the extent to which the legislature and the executive are capable of fulfilling expectations of good governance with particular reference to policy development, accountability, and policy co-ordination and to make recommendations for any reforms considered necessary. The States Review Committee is due to report to the States of Deliberation in two stages before the end of 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1984610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984610", "title": "Contract research organization", "text": "Contract research organization\n\nA contract research organization (CRO) is a company that provides support to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device industries in the form of research services outsourced on a contract basis. A CRO may provide such services as biopharmaceutical development, biologic assay development, commercialization, preclinical research, clinical research, clinical trials management, and pharmacovigilance. CROs are designed to reduce costs for companies developing new medicines and drugs in niche markets. They aim to simplify entry into drug markets, and simplify development, as the need for large pharmaceutical companies to do everything ‘in house’ is now redundant. CROs also support foundations, research institutions, and universities, in addition to governmental organizations (such as the NIH, EMA, etc.). \n\nMany CROs specifically provide clinical-study and clinical-trial support for drugs and/or medical devices. CROs range from large, international full-service organizations to small, niche specialty groups.\n\nCROs that specialize in clinical-trials services can offer their clients the expertise of moving a new drug or device from its conception to FDA/EMA marketing approval, without the drug sponsor having to maintain a staff for these services.\n\nThe International Council on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use, a 2015 Swiss NGO of pharmaceutical companies and others, defined a contract research organization (CRO), specifically pertaining to clinical trials services as: \"A person or an organization (commercial, academic, or other) contracted by the sponsor to perform one or more of a sponsor's trial-related duties and functions.\"\n\nIt further details the sponsor's responsibilities in its good clinical practice guidelines: \n\n, there were over 1,100 CROs in the world, despite continued trends toward consolidation. Many CROs have been acquired while others have gone out of business. The industry is fragmented, with the top 10 companies controlling 56% of the market in 2008 and 55% in 2009. One estimate from 2007 had the size of the market set to reach $24 billion in 2010 and another estimate from 2009 set to grow at a rate of 8.5% through 2015.\n\n, there was a 15.5% increase in R&D spending from 2015 to 2020. , IgeaHub considered the top CROs by revenue to be: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3330996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3330996", "title": "Decent work", "text": "Decent work\n\nThe United Nations Economic and Social Council has given a General Comment that defines \"decent work\" and requires satisfaction of Article 7 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights: decent work is employment that \"respects the fundamental rights of the human person as well as the rights of workers in terms of conditions of work safety and remuneration. ... respect for the physical and mental integrity of the worker in the exercise of his/her employment.\"\n\nAccording to the International Labour Organization (ILO), decent work involves opportunities for work that are productive and deliver a fair income, security in the workplace and social protection for families, better prospects for personal development and social integration, freedom for people to express their concerns, organize and participate in the decisions that affect their lives and equality of opportunity and treatment for all women and men.\n\nThe ILO is developing an agenda for the community of work, represented by its tripartite constituents, to mobilize their considerable resources to create those opportunities and to help reduce and eradicate poverty.\n\nThe ILO Decent Work Agenda is the balanced and integrated programmatic approach to pursue the objectives of full and productive employment and decent work for all at global, regional, national, sectoral and local levels. It has four pillars: standards and rights at work, employment creation and enterprise development, social protection and social dialogue.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals also proclaims decent work for sustainable economic growth.\n\nAlthough few disagree with the Decent Work Agenda in principle, actually achieving Decent Work poses challenges and controversies. In Africa, for example, informal employment is the norm, while well-paying jobs that offer social-protection benefits are the exception. The Decent Work Agenda requires national and international actors to commit to the objective of creating quality jobs globally and to pursue cooperative solutions to this challenge. However, governments struggle to convince their publics that development and job creation abroad is imperative to prosperity and employment at home. Some governments also face the temptation to close markets and lower labor standards to remain competitive in a world economy that is blamed for depressing wages and working conditions.\n\nVarious actors can affect the provision of Decent Work, although existing conditions and incentives do not always lend themselves to advancing the Decent Work Agenda. To illustrate:\n\n\nOctober 7, is the World Day for Decent Work. During that day trade unions, union federations and other workers associations develop their actions to promote the idea of Decent Work. Actions vary from street demonstrations to music events or conferences held in many countries.\n\nFive organizations, Solidar, ITUC, ETUC, Social Alert International and the Global Progressive Forum, launched the Decent Work, Decent Life campaign at the World Social Forum in Nairobi in January 2007, and has since then worked in an alliance to promote decent work for decent life as solution to poverty. The idea to run a Campaign on Decent Work was conceived at the World Social Forum, 2005, in Porto Alegre. The Campaign targets young people, trade union activists, NGOs and decision makers in developed and developing countries.\n\nThe Campaign’s objectives focus on building awareness of Decent work and on promoting Decent work as the only sustainable way out of poverty, democracy and social cohesion.\n\nIn November 2007, decision makers from European governments and institutions signed the Call to Action of the Decent Work, Decent Life Campaign adding up to the recognition of the Decent Work Agenda. \"There is also a growing interest on the part of the EU and international civil society in decent work, as illustrated for instance by: the launch of the Decent Work/Decent Life [Campaign]…\".\n\nThe Campaign’s Call to Action focuses on seven issues, namely; decent work, workers’ rights, social protection, fair trade, international financial institutions, development aid and migration.\n\nThe Decent Work, Decent Life for Women Campaign is a two years campaign launched on International Women’s Day 2008 (March 8) by the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) and the Global union federations (GUF). The campaign aims to advocate decent work for women and gender equality in labour policies and agreements and to seek gender equality in trade union structures, policies and activities. The second objective aims at increasing number of women members in trade unions and women in elected positions.\n\nThe Campaign’s necessity stems from multiple forms of discrimination in both policy and practice on a daily basis women are facing such as the gender pay gap, the lack of maternity protection and the higher unemployment rates among women.\n\nAt the moment 81 national centers in 56 countries participate with various events in this Campaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "436111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436111", "title": "Executive officer", "text": "Executive officer\n\nAn executive officer (CCE) is generally a person responsible for running an organization, although the exact nature of the role varies depending on the organization. In many militaries, an executive officer is the second-in-command, reporting to the commanding officer. The XO is typically responsible for the management of day-to-day activities, freeing the commander to concentrate on strategy and planning the unit's next move.\n\nWhile there is no clear line between executive or principal and inferior officers, principal officers are high-level officials in the executive branch of U.S. government such as department heads of independent agencies. In \"Humphrey's Executor v. United States\", 295 U.S. 602 (1935), the Court distinguished between executive officers and quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial officers by stating that the former serve at the pleasure of the president and may be removed at his discretion. The latter are removed only with procedures consistent with statutory conditions enacted by Congress. The decision by the Court was that the Federal Trade Commission was a quasi-legislative body because of other powers it had, and therefore, the president could not fire an FTC member for political reasons. Congress can’t retain removal power over officials with executive function (\"Bowsher v. Synar\"). However, statutes can restrict removal if not purely executive (\"Humphrey\"’s executor), but can't restrict removal of purely executive officer (\"Myers v. United States,\" 272 U.S. 52 (1926)). The standard is whether restriction \"impedes the president’s ability to perform his constitutional duty\" (\"Morrison v. Olson\", 487 U.S. 654 (1988)).\n\nIn business, the executive officers are the top officers of a corporation, the chief executive officer (CEO) being the best-known type. The definition varies; for instance, the California Corporate Disclosure Act defines \"executive officers\" as the five most highly compensated officers not also sitting on the board of directors. In many insurance policies, executive officer means, in the case of a corporation, any chairman, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, president, or general counsel. In the case of a sole proprietorship, an executive officer is the sole proprietor. In the case of a partnership, an executive officer is a managing partner, senior partner, or administrative partner. In the case of a limited liability company, an executive officer is any member, manager, or officer.\n\nIn charity/voluntary sector/non-profit, the executive officer(s) are those appointed to drive the day-to-day decisions of the organization. This is normally a formal appointment made by the executive board of trustees. Specific responsibilities and scope vary and are usually called out in a governance document.\n\nIn the units of some military forces, typically those that are naval in nature (including the U.S. Marine Corps), the executive officer is the second-in-command, reporting to the commanding officer (CO). \n\nIn most non-naval military services that are land-based (except the U.S. Army, where an executive officer is the second-in-command of certain units) or in joint military organizations, the executive officer is an administrative staff position versus a command position. XOs in these positions typically assist a commander or deputy commander (or in the case of joint staffs or joint commands, a director) by managing day-to-day activities such as management of the senior officer's schedule, screening of documents or other products, and oversight of the senior officer's administrative support staff.\n\nManagement of individual assets in the airline industry is derived from the military terminology, where an executive officer or first officer, is the second in command of the aircraft. In a fixed wing aircraft, the first officer sits in the right-hand seat, but on a rotary wing aircraft, they sit on the left. Management of the airline as a whole is more in-line with the corporate example above.\n\nThe term XO is not used in most British Army or Royal Marines units, where the designation second-in-command (2i/c) is used as a formal appointment. However, the position does exist in some specialist regiments within the Royal Artillery where the exact duties vary. In the Royal Air Force, the term XO is informally used between officers and airmen, referring to the officer who is second-in-command. It is, however, formally used in the Royal Navy. In smaller vessels, such as submarines and frigates, the executive officer also holds the position of first lieutenant. Originally, the second-in-command was usually referred to as first lieutenant (or as \"number one\"), although it is becoming more common to hear the term XO. On larger ships of the Royal Navy, in which the XO holds the rank of commander, the XO is usually referred to simply as \"the commander\". The XO also heads the executive department.\n\nThere are executive officer slots in each company, battalion, regiment, and brigade, though generally not at higher levels of command until the army level. The XO is typically the second-in-command, and serves as the day-to-day manager of the command staff. The XO is typically responsible for the management of day-to-day activities, such as administration, maintenance, and logistics, freeing a commander to concentrate on tactical/operational planning and execution and a general officer commander to concentrate on similar planning and execution at the operational-strategic level. The XO may take charge in the absence of the commander, the exception being commands with a deputy commander, although recent army command reductions have either merged the two, or eliminated the deputy. \n\nA few organizations within the army maintain authorizations for a chief warrant officer to serve as an XO/2IC. One example of this is the Modular Ammunition Platoon, where the ammunition technician acts as the second-in-command during the absence of the platoon leader. While the experience gained as an XO is highly beneficial for an army officer's professional development, it is not necessarily a prerequisite for a command position. At the army level of command, a commanding general will have a deputy commanding general as second in command and an \"executive officer\" on his personal staff who works as his liaison to the general staff and an aide-de-camp who takes care of his calendar and personal needs.\n\nThe executive officer is the billet of the officer who is second-in-command at the company/battery, battalion/squadron, and Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU)/regiment/aviation group (i.e., Marine Aircraft Group, Marine Air Control Group, and Marine Wing Support Group) level. Per the \"Marine Corps Manual\", paragraph 1007.5: \"The executive officer shall be an officer of the organization who is eligible to succeed to command, and normally will be the officer next in rank to the commander. As the direct representative of the commander, all orders issued by the executive officer shall have the same force and effect as though issued by the commander. The executive officer shall conform to and effectuate the policies and orders of the commander and shall be prepared to assume command at any time the need should arise.\" At higher levels of command, the second-in-command is the assistant division/wing commander or, in the case of a Marine Expeditionary Force (MEF), deputy commander. For those commands having a general officer (usually a brigadier general) in command without a designated assistant commander or deputy commander, such as a Marine Expeditionary Brigade (MEB) or Marine Logistics Group (MLG), the chief of staff (a colonel) is the second-in-command. Unlike their U.S. Navy counterparts, XOs of U.S. Marine Corps squadrons in U.S. Naval Aviation do not \"fleet up\" to become CO.\n\nAn XO is assigned to all ships, aviation squadrons, and shore units and installations, and is responsible to the captain for all ship’s work, drills, exercises, personnel organization, and the policing and inspection of the ship. When the ship goes to action stations, the XO confirms that the ship actually is ready for combat and reports this to the captain. The XO's own action station is in a separate part of the ship from that of the captain, so that a single hit will not likely incapacitate both officers. On small ships with no first lieutenant, gunnery officer, or navigator, the executive officer may also be responsible for the duties of those officers. Carrier air wings in the U.S. Navy do not have an XO, but have a deputy commander (DCAG) instead; for shore-based or functional naval air wings, the equivalent position is the deputy commodore.\n\nIn the U.S. Coast Guard, on board small cutters and patrol boats that are commanded by either a junior officer or a senior enlisted member, executive chief petty officers or executive petty officers are usually assigned to serve as second-in-command.\n\nOn U.S. aircraft carriers, per Title 10 United States Code, both the captain (i.e., the commanding officer or CO) and the XO assigned to the ship are naval aviators or naval flight officers. Although not specified by 10 U.S.C., large, air-capable amphibious assault ships will have one of the two senior positions (CO or XO) occupied by a surface warfare officer and the other by a naval aviator or naval flight officer, alternating at each change of command. In naval aviation, in U.S. Navy squadrons (other than fleet replacement squadrons and the Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron {viz., Blue Angels}), the XO will eventually \"fleet up\" to become the CO of that squadron after twelve to fifteen months as XO. This fleet up model was also adopted in the early 2000s for XO and CO positions of both large amphibious assault ships (but not aircraft carriers) and \"Arleigh Burke\"-class guided missile destroyers. In addition to operational and tactical responsibilities, XOs also shoulder most of the CO's administrative burden, to include oversight of the command's administrative officer (if assigned) and administrative department.\n\nThe term of XO in the Navy and Coast Guard should not be confused with the term \"executive assistant\" (\"EA\") in those services, the latter being an officer in the rank of captain (O-6) who serves either dual-hatted as, or in addition to, the chief of staff to a flag officer.\n\nIn the U.S. Air Force, XO is not a command or second-in-command position. Instead, it is used to designate a company grade officer or junior field grade officer who serves as a staff administrative assistant to a senior officer, starting with a commander at the squadron level or above (e.g., squadron, group, wing, numbered air force, major command). In the other uniformed services, this position may be called an aide, an \"executive assistant\" or an adjutant. Like the Army, while experience gained as an XO is highly beneficial for an Air Force officer's professional development, it is not necessarily a prerequisite for a command position. For officers holding second-in-command positions, the U.S. Air Force uses the titles of \"vice commander\" (CV), or \"deputy commander\" (CD) for an officer who serves as the second-in-command for an organization above squadron level. For a squadron level organization, the second-in-command is typically termed the \"director of operations\" or \"operations officer\" (DO). These latter terms were previously used for similar positions at the group and wing level until renamed as the \"operations group commander (OG/CC). The rank of an executive officer in the U.S. Air Force can vary from lieutenant or captain working for a colonel, to a major or lieutenant colonel in support of a brigadier general or major general, to a colonel serving as the executive officer to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. \n\nThe U.S. Air Force uses the term \"executive officer\" for officers assigned as personal staff officers to general officers. Their role is similar to aides-de-camp in the U.S. Army, Marine Corps, and Air Force and flag aides and flag lieutenants in the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard.\n\nA unique application of the term is executive officer to the Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and commander, United States European Command. This position is typically held by a brigadier general or rear admiral (LH) and is drawn from all of the armed services. The duties involve serving as both an \"executive assistant\" to Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) and also includes command responsibilities for the U.S. military community at Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in Belgium.\n"}
{"id": "1160523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160523", "title": "Gandhi Peace Prize", "text": "Gandhi Peace Prize\n\nThe International Gandhi Peace Prize, named after Mahatma Gandhi, is awarded annually by the Government of India.\n\nAs a tribute to the ideals espoused by Gandhi, the Government of India launched the International Gandhi Peace Prize in 1995 on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Mohandas Gandhi. This is an annual award given to individuals and institutions for their contributions towards social, economic and political transformation through non-violence and other Gandhian methods. The award carries 1 Crore (10 million) in cash, convertible in any currency in the world, a plaque and a citation. It is open to all persons regardless of nationality, race, creed or gender. \n\nA jury consisting of the Prime Minister of India, the Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha, the Chief Justice of India and two other eminent persons decides the awardee each year.\n\nOrdinarily, only proposals coming from competent persons invited to nominate are considered. However, a proposal is not taken as invalid for consideration by the jury merely on the ground of not having emanated from competent persons. If, however, it is considered that none of the proposals merit recognition, the jury is free to withhold the award for that year. Only achievements within 10 years immediately preceding the nomination are considered for the award; an older work may, however, be considered if its significance has not become apparent until recently. A written work, to be eligible for consideration, should have been published.\n\n"}
{"id": "43962278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43962278", "title": "Geostorm", "text": "Geostorm\n\nGeostorm is a 2017 American disaster film directed, co-written, and co-produced by Dean Devlin in his feature film directorial debut. The film stars Gerard Butler, Jim Sturgess, Ed Harris, Abbie Cornish, Richard Schiff, Alexandra Maria Lara, Robert Sheehan, Daniel Wu, Eugenio Derbez, and Andy García. The plot follows a satellite designer who tries to save the world from a storm of epic proportions caused by malfunctioning climate-controlling satellites.\n\nPrincipal photography began on October 20, 2014, in New Orleans, Louisiana. After poor test screenings, re-shoots took place in December 2016 under executive producer Jerry Bruckheimer, writer Laeta Kalogridis and new director Danny Cannon. The film is the first co-production between Skydance Media and Warner Bros. The film was released by Warner Bros. in the United States on October 20, 2017, in 2D, Real D 3D and IMAX 3D. Despite grossing $221 million worldwide the film was labeled a box office bomb given its $120 million budget, losing the studio $74 million, and received negative reviews, with criticism focused on the \"uninspiring\" story and \"lackluster\" visual effects.\n\nIn 2019, following many catastrophic natural disasters, an international coalition commissions a system of climate-controlling satellites called \"Dutch Boy\". After Dutch Boy neutralizes a typhoon in Shanghai, a Senate sub-committee reprimands chief architect Jake Lawson (Gerard Butler) for acting without authorization and replaces him with his brother Max (Jim Sturgess), who works under Secretary of State Leonard Dekkom.\n\nThree years later, a UN team stationed in the Registan Desert comes across a frozen village. As suspicions rise about the event being caused by a malfunction of Dutch Boy, the US government decides to send one person to find and fix the system. Later, Makmoud Habib, an Indian engineer working on the International Climate Space Station (ICSS), is shown copying data from the Afghanistan satellite onto an external storage device. Habib stores it in his station locker, but he is unexpectedly ejected into space and killed. After convincing President Andrew Palma to conduct an investigation, Max persuades Jake to go to the ICSS to investigate. Another satellite increases temperatures in Hong Kong, causing gas main explosions that nearly kill Max's college friend Cheng Long, the head of Dutch Boy's Hong Kong department.\n\nJake arrives at ICSS to examine the malfunctioning satellites (which are damaged afterwards and their data erased) with station commander Ute Fassbinder and her crew. Suspecting a traitor, Jake and Ute keep their actions secret and manage to discover that Habib had discovered something before his death and hidden the evidence. The two recover the data, discovering that a virus has wiped out everyone's login access to the satellite and is causing the malfunctions. Suspecting Palma is using Dutch Boy as a weapon, Jake tells Max he needs to reboot the system to eliminate the virus which requires the kill code held by Palma. The ICSS staff neutralize malfunctioning satellites by deliberately knocking them offline via collisions with replacement satellites.\n\nBack on Earth, Cheng discovers he and Max have lost login access and warns Max of a global cataclysm known as a \"Geostorm\" if the malfunction continues. Cheng is pursued to Washington, D.C. by a team of rogue government agents, who ultimately cause his death in a traffic incident, but not before he says \"Zeus\". Discovering Project Zeus simulates extreme weather patterns to create a Geostorm, Max enlists his girlfriend, Secret Service agent Sarah Wilson, to acquire the code.\n\nDuring the Democratic National Convention (DNC) at the Moxley Arena in Orlando, Max discovers Orlando is next to be targeted after a massive hailstorm hits Tokyo and part of Rio de Janeiro freezes over. \n\nThe ICSS team loses control of all operations as the virus initiates the self-destruct program. As more disasters strike around the world (including tornadoes in Mumbai, a heatwave in Moscow and a megatsunami in Dubai), Jake realizes software engineer Duncan is the traitor. In the ensuing confrontation, Duncan accidentally ejects himself into space while Jake escapes. As the crew evacuates, Jake stays behind to ensure the reboot completes. \n\nMax requests Dekkom's help, but Dekkom instead tries unsuccessfully to kill Max, unveiling himself as the saboteur; Max immediately informs Sarah. The two kidnap Palma to protect him from Dekkom's agents and secure the kill code, which is Palma's biometrics. As they escape from the DNC stadium before a lightning storm destroys it, Max reveals their activities and Dekkom's treachery to Palma. After outsmarting Dekkom's mercenaries, the three arrest and confront Dekkom about his intentions: to decimate the other elected officials in America's line of succession, giving him the chance to dominate the world while eliminating America's enemies at the same time. Max and Sarah escort Palma to the Kennedy Space Center, where they transmit the code but learn that the self-destruct sequence can't be stopped.\n\nJake and Ute, who also stayed behind, work together to reboot the system, eliminating the virus and transferring satellite control to NASA, preventing the Geostorm at the last second. The two take shelter in a replacement satellite as the self-destruct sequence completes and use its thrusters as a beacon. A nearby shuttle piloted by crew member Hernandez picks them up. Six months later, Jake works as the head engineer for Dutch Boy once more, which is now administered by an international committee.\n\n\nKatheryn Winnick had been cast as Olivia Lawson, Jake’s ex-wife and the mother of Hannah, but during reshoots, her role was recast with Julia Denton.\n\nAs Dean Devlin explained climate change to his daughter Hannah, she asked why a machine could not be built to fix that. Devlin went on to imagine such a thing, and how it could be used for evil purposes. As he struggled to develop his script, he asked the help of Paul Guyot, specially to write the brother dynamics. In 2013, Skydance Productions purchased the filming rights. After Skydance's distributing partner Paramount Pictures put the project into turnaround, \"Geostorm\" was pitched and accepted by Warner Bros. Pre-production began on July 7, 2014. With an initial budget of $82 million, principal photography began on October 20, 2014, in New Orleans, Louisiana, and lasted through February 10, 2015. Filming began on Loyola Avenue on the first day. Some NASA scenes were filmed at a NASA Rocket Factory in New Orleans in November 2014 and January 2015.\n\nAfter poor test screenings in December 2015, $15 million reshoots were conducted in Louisiana in early December 2016, under new producer Jerry Bruckheimer, writer Laeta Kalogridis and director Danny Cannon. Winnick's role was recast with Julia Denton during reshoots, while new characters were added into the script.\n\nOn October 16, 2017, Warner Bros. released a prank video on its YouTube channel. In the video, a New York taxicab drives into an ice storm affected city block, much to the shock of its passengers.\n\nThe film was originally set for release on March 25, 2016, but in August 2014, Warner set this date for the release of \"\" instead. On December 11, 2014, WB shifted its live-action animated film \"Mowgli\" to 2017 and gave its previous date from March 25, 2016, then October 21, 2016, to \"Geostorm\". In September 2015, the studio again moved back the film from October 21, 2016, to January 13, 2017. In June 2016, the studio announced the release had been moved back from January 13, 2017, to October 20, 2017. The film had an IMAX 3D release.\n\n\"Geostorm\" was released on DVD, Blu-ray and Blu-ray 3D on January 16, 2018.\n\n\"Geostorm\" grossed $33.7 million in the United States and Canada, and $187.7 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $221.4 million, against a production budget of $120 million.\n\nIn North America, the film was released alongside \"Boo 2! A Madea Halloween\", \"The Snowman\" and \"Only the Brave\", and was expected to gross $10–12 million from 3,246 theaters in its opening weekend. After not holding Thursday night preview screenings, the film made $4.2 million on Friday. It went on to debut to $13.3 million, finishing second at the box office. The week after its release, it was reported the film would likely lose the studio around $100 million. In March 2018, \"Deadline Hollywood\" calculated the film lost the studio $71.6 million, when factoring together all expenses and revenues.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 13% based on 75 reviews, and an average rating of 3.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Lacking impressive visuals, well-written characters, or involving drama, \"Geostorm\" aims for epic disaster-movie spectacle but ends up simply being a disaster of a movie.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 21 out of 100, based on 22 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B−\" on an A+ to F scale, while PostTrak reported filmgoers gave it a 67% overall positive score and a 49% \"definite recommend\".\n\nPeter Sobczynski of RogerEbert.com gave the film one-and-a-half out of four stars, stating that \"the real disappointment about [\"Geostorm\"] is that it doesn’t even work as the camp suggested by the trailer... [T]hey lack the lavish visual pyrotechnics nor the wit or style to make any of the destruction slightly memorable.\" Mark Kermode of the \"Kermode and Mayo's Film Review\" radio program stated that the film \"takes stupid to a whole new level... Honestly, and I say this, I think it's the stupidest film I have ever seen\", emphasizing that \"it's more stupid than \"Angels and Demons\", and that's not a phrase I thought I'd ever say out loud\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9397755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9397755", "title": "God's Rule: Government and Islam", "text": "God's Rule: Government and Islam\n\nGod's Rule: Government and Islam Six Centuries of Medieval Islamic Political Thought is a book written by scholar and historian of early Islam Patricia Crone.\n\n\"God's Rule: Government and Islam\" provides a detailed analysis on the origins and development of Islamic religio-political practices and thought from the 7th to the 13th century. The author chronicles the development of the Islamic concept of Jihad, the justifications devised for ideological imperialisms, the debates about the subjugation of non-Muslims, and rulings toward forced conversions as well as views on the persecution of dissidents and non-conforming Muslims and the sanctioning of killings in dealing with such situations.\n\nPart One: The Beginnings\nPart Two: The Waning of the Tribal Tradition, c.700-900\nPart Three Coping with a Fragmented World\nPart Four: Government and Society\n(a) Infidels\n(b) Muslims as Infidels\n"}
{"id": "49306383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49306383", "title": "Gustav Stresemann Institute", "text": "Gustav Stresemann Institute\n\nThe Gustav Stresemann Institute (GSI) is a registered charity and an independent, non-partisan and non-profit institution of civic education. The GSI is in the Bonn neighborhood of Hochkreuz,\nand operates a conference center with a conference hotel as a European meeting and education center. It sees itself as a modern center for education, discussion, and meeting and a meeting place for people from all over the world. There are 1,400 events with more than 50,000 overnight stays per year including conferences, symposia, conferences, workshops and seminars on a wide range of subjects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161653", "title": "Hard power", "text": "Hard power\n\nHard power is the use of military and economic means to influence the behavior or interests of other political bodies. This form of political power is often aggressive (coercion), and is most immediately effective when imposed by one political body upon another of lesser military and/or economic power. Hard power contrasts with soft power, which comes from diplomacy, culture and history.\n\nAccording to Joseph Nye, hard power involves \"the ability to use the carrots and sticks of economic and military might to make others follow your will\". Here, \"carrots\" stand for inducements such as the reduction of trade barriers, the offer of an alliance or the promise of military protection. On the other hand, \"sticks\" represent threats - including the use of coercive diplomacy, the threat of military intervention, or the implementation of economic sanctions. Ernest Wilson describes hard power as the capacity to coerce \"another to act in ways in which that entity would not have acted otherwise\".\n\nWhile the existence of hard power has a long history, the term itself arose when Joseph Nye coined \"soft power\" as a new and different form of power in a sovereign state's foreign policy. According to the realist school in international relations theory, power is linked with the possession of certain tangible resources, including population, territory, natural resources, economic and military strength, among others. Hard power describes a nation or political body’s ability to use economic incentives or military strength to influence other actors’ behaviors. \n\nHard power encompasses a wide range of coercive policies, such as coercive diplomacy, economic sanctions, military action, and the forming of military alliances for deterrence and mutual defense. Hard power can be used to establish or change a state of political hegemony or balance of power. Although the term \"hard power\" generally refers to diplomacy, it can also be used to describe forms of negotiation which involve pressure or threats as leverage. \n\nThe use of hard power is often tedious. Insurgencies against the external force can be prominent. The United States has demonstrated a 'hard power' policy in regard to the Iraq War, the Afghanistan War and its continued war on the Taliban. To be more specific, the United States’ attack on Iraq in 2003 was based on the concerns about Iraq’s possession of weapons of mass destruction (WMD). In part by referring to “War on Terrorism,” George W. Bush administration used hard power measures to uproot Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein and to handle subsequent crisis in Iraq. However, many critics mention that the war in Iraq had the United States lose its reputation as an icon for democracy and justice.\n\nJoseph Nye has used the term to define some policy measures in regard to Iran as well. For instance, there are many sanctions against Iran passed by UN Security Council and numerous nations such as the United States and those of the European Union also impose bilateral sanctions against Iran. They impose restrictions on exports of nuclear and missile to Iran, banking and insurance transactions, investment in oil, exports of refined petroleum products, and so on. Such measures are taken by many nations to deter Iran’s possible nuclear weapon program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12581684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12581684", "title": "Harvey Molotch", "text": "Harvey Molotch\n\nHarvey Luskin Molotch (born January 3, 1940) is an American sociologist known for studies that have reconceptualized power relations in interaction, the mass media, and the city. He helped create the field of environmental sociology and has advanced qualitative methods in the social sciences. In recent years, Molotch helped develop a new field—the sociology of objects. He is currently a professor of Sociology and of Metropolitan Studies at New York University. His \"Introduction to Sociology\" is featured as one of NYU Open Education's courses available to stream freely. Other courses that he teaches include \"Approaches to Metropolitan Studies\" and \"Urban Objects\". He is also affiliated with the graduate program in Humanities and Social Thought.\n\nMolotch was born Harvey Luskin in Baltimore, Maryland, where his family was in the retail car business on one side and the Luskin's home appliance business on the other. His father, Paul Luskin, died in the Battle of the Bulge in 1944 during World War II. His mother remarried to Nathan Molotch. He received a B.A. in Philosophy from the University of Michigan (1963), with a thesis on John Dewey. He received an M.A. (1966) and Ph.D. (1968) in Sociology from the University of Chicago. He served in the U.S. Army, stationed in Maryland and Virginia, 1961-62.\n\nHe taught at the University of California, Santa Barbara from 1967 to 2003. He has also been a visiting professor at Stony Brook University, the University of Essex, and Northwestern University. In 1998-99 he was Centennial Professor at the London School of Economics.\n\nHis 1964 marriage to Linda Molotch ended with her death, by car accident, in 1976. The couple had two children, Shana (born 1969), now with two children and living in Northern California; and Noah (born 1972), now with two children and living in Boulder Colorado where he is on faculty at University of Colorado as hydrological scientist, as well as research scientist at Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Molotch has lived with his domestic partner, Glenn Wharton, a conservator at the Museum of Modern Art and faculty member at New York University, since 1979.\n\nMolotch's early work on \"white flight\" overturned conventional wisdom on neighborhood change, showing that normal mobility makes neighborhood racial change possible. When blacks constitute the bulk of those who move into the vacancies that result, racial change is made inevitable. The implication of this finding, based on Molotch's systematic studies of matched neighborhoods (and since replicated by others on large data sets), was that it is the reluctance of whites to move into a changing neighborhood that makes racial integration so difficult to achieve. From a policy perspective, Molotch concluded that while stabilizing neighborhoods would not be easy, the focus needs to be on getting white people to replace the whites who are leaving, rather than talking people who are leaving into staying.\n\nOn January 28, 1969, there was a massive eruption of crude oil from Union Oil's Platform A in the Santa Barbara Channel--an eruption which was to cover much of the coast line of two counties with oil. Molotch saw in this disaster a research opportunity. His article \"Oil in Santa Barbara and Power in America\" became a founding document of the new field of environmental sociology, and a key contribution to political sociology.\n\nMolotch argued that accident research at the local level might be capable of revealing what political scientists called the \"second face of power.\" This is a dimension of power ordinarily ignored by traditional community studies which fail to concern themselves with the processes by which bias is mobilized and thus how issues rise and fall.\n\nMolotch's findings highlighted the extraordinary intransigence of national institutions in the face of local dissent, but more importantly, pointed out the processes and tactics which undermine that dissent and frustrate and radicalize the dissenters. Molotch called for comparable studies of the agriculture industry, the banking industry, and for more accident research at the local level, which might bring to light the larger social arrangements which structure the parameters of such local debate. In this way, research at the local level might serve as an avenue to knowledge about \"national\" power. Molotch ended, \"Sociologists should be ready when an accident hits in their neighborhood, and then go to work.\"\n\nMolotch helped introduce the social construction framework to the study of news media. Whereas news accounts had been treated, however critically, as \"failed\" representations of a presumed reality, Molotch and Marilyn Lester held that every account is a product of the social organization that goes into its production. In founding papers in the sociology of the mass media, Molotch and Lester applied the insights of ethnomethodology to the Santa Barbara oil spill and the way it was covered. They argued for an approach to the mass media which does not look for reality, but for practices of those having the power to determine the experience of others.\n\nIn addition, Molotch and Lester recognized that this social construction of the news had a crucial political component, a perspective later endorsed by such media sociologists as W. Lance Bennett. In normal times, Molotch and Lester said, the news is merely the ritualized presentation of the stories of powerful corporate and governmental organizations. Only in certain contexts does the veil of this ruling elite consensus get pushed aside to reveal other possible constructions of the facts. Molotch and Lester pointed to such disruptive contexts as scandals and accidents like the Santa Barbara Oil Spill, while Bennett pointed to significant social issues that break through the normally ritualized conflicts of the two political parties.\n\nMolotch's work has inspired studies of the social construction of news, of the particular ways that the content of presentation is contingent on the social setting of its production, including the occupational workplace of news professionals as well as the larger societal setting. His more recent work on mass media has included studies of war protest and the stock market.\n\nMolotch is probably best known for his book \"Urban Fortunes\" (1987, with John Logan), which won sociology's most prestigious prize for scholarship in 1990. Urban Fortunes builds on Molotch's 1976 classic paper, \"The City as a Growth Machine.\" In this body of work, Molotch took the dominant convention of studying urban land use and turned it on its head. The field of urban sociology (as well as urban geography, planning, and economics) was dominated by the idea that cities were basically containers for human action, in which actors competed among themselves for the most strategic parcels of land, and the real estate market reflected the state of that competition. Out of this competition were thought to come the shape of the city and the distribution of social types within it (e.g. banks in the center, affluent residents in the suburbs). Long established notions such as central place theory and the sectoral hypothesis were claims that are more or less \"natural\" spatial geography evolved from competitive market activity.\n\nMolotch helped reverse the course of urban theory by pointing out that land parcels were not empty fields awaiting human action, but were associated with specific interests—commercial, sentimental, and psychological. Especially important in shaping cities were the real estate interests of those whose properties gain value when growth takes place. These actors make up what Molotch termed \"the local growth machine\" -- a term now standard in the urban studies lexicon. From this perspective, cities need to be studied (and compared) in terms of the organization, lobbying, manipulating, and structuring carried out by these actors. The outcome—the shape of cities and the distribution of their peoples—is thus not due to an interpersonal market or geographic necessities, but to social actions, including opportunistic dealing. \"Urban Fortunes\" has influenced hundreds of national and international studies. A twentieth anniversary edition was issued by the University of California Press in 2007 with a new preface.\n\nMolotch has also conducted a series of studies in conversation analysis on mechanisms such as gaps and silences in human conversation that reveal the way power operates at the micro-interactional level. This work includes a notable collaboration with Mitchell Duneier on talk between men on the street and women passersby. His research builds on writings of Don Zimmerman, Harvey Sacks, Gail Jefferson, and Emanuel Schegloff. Molotch was among the first to utilize ethnomethodology and conversation analysis in the study of traditional sociological topics, bridging what had been regarded as a highly esoteric and specialized approach to micro-sociology with mainstream, macro-level sociological issues such as hegemony and power.\n\nMore recently in \"Where Stuff Comes From\", Molotch builds on the work of Howard S. Becker and Bruno Latour, to show how objects and physical artifacts are joint result of various types of actors, most particularly product designers operating within frameworks of technology, regulation, mass tastes, and corporate profits. While neo-Marxists and others have treated \"commodity fetishism\" as a signal of oppression, repression, and delusion, he uses goods to understand, in a more comprehensive way, just what makes production happen and how artifacts reveal larger social and cultural forces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51592292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51592292", "title": "Homelessness in Ireland", "text": "Homelessness in Ireland\n\nHomelessness in Ireland is an evolving social issue. During the 19th century, homelessness was a pervasive impact of the Great Famine (1845–1852). During the 20th century, homelessness in Ireland was associated with older males who may have had alcoholism or other addiction issues. However, since the 1990s and into the 21st century, it has been recognised that the homeless population includes increasing numbers of women and children.\n\nYouth homelessness is often defined as a separate issue to homelessness. Though the issue was not recognized by government until the late 1980s, since the mid-1960s youth homelessness was gradually articulated as a form of homelessness different from that experienced by adults.\n\nAs of late 2017, there were over 8,000 homeless people in Ireland, with approximately one-third of these being children. The total number of homeless people in Ireland rose by 25% between September 2016 and September 2017.\n\nSpokespersons of the Irish government stated in 2013 that they would have \"eradicated homelessness\" in Ireland by 2016. However, this goal was not achieved, and as of 2017, the issue and prevalence of homelessness has increased. Figures published during 2016 and early 2017 indicated that there were then 4,377 people living in emergency accommodation, the highest figure seen in Ireland to that date. A \"Homelessness Report\" by the Department of Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government in November 2016, indicated that the issue was most prevalent in the Dublin area, but with hundreds of homeless families and individuals in other regions also. Commentators have attributed the ongoing events (described in the news media as the 'homelessness crisis') to the post-2008 Irish economic downturn and 'subsequent fiscal adjustments', and the parallel impacts of reduced familial incomes, mortgage arrears and rental increases which followed impacts to housing supply.\n"}
{"id": "34795473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34795473", "title": "Indemnity Act, 1961", "text": "Indemnity Act, 1961\n\nThe Indemnity Act 61 of 1961 was a law enacted by the apartheid government in South Africa, which protected the government from any legal repercussions of the Sharpeville massacre and other violent events that followed. It prevented the courts from hearing any criminal charges or civil claims against the government, its leaders or its employees for actions taken between 21 March 1960 and 5 July 1961.\n\nThe act indemnified the State President, the Cabinet, all members of the civil service, the defence force, the police force, the railways and harbours service, the prison service, and anyone else acting under their direction. It applied to any actions taken, orders given or information published \"in good faith\" between the specified dates to protect public order, essential services, life or property.\n\nThe act was precipitated by 224 civil claims for damages, amounting to approximately £400,000 (R800,000), served against the Minister of Justice in September 1960 by victims of Sharpeville and their relatives. All these claims were nullified by the act. In response to public pressure, the government set up a committee to examine the claims and to recommend \"ex gratia\" payments, but few were actually paid out.\n\nThe act remains on the statute-books, although any claims to which it would apply would have prescribed (expired). It is also inconsistent with the modern Constitution of South Africa, which guarantees the right of access to the courts. The South African Law Reform Commission has recommended that it should be repealed.\n\n"}
{"id": "31438611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31438611", "title": "Institute for Gulf Affairs", "text": "Institute for Gulf Affairs\n\nInstitute for Gulf Affairs (formerly the Saudi Institute) is a Washington, D.C.-based human rights advocacy group and think tank that monitors politics and education in the Middle East. Ali al-Ahmed, a Saudi Arabian scholar and a critic of the Saudi monarchy, is the director and founder.\n\nThe institute provides information, analysis and research about the Persian Gulf region and matters of international relations and politics. \n"}
{"id": "43537387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43537387", "title": "Kaum De Heere", "text": "Kaum De Heere\n\nKaum De Heere (English translation: \"Gems of the Community\" or \"Diamonds of the Community\" or in simpler words \"the Heroes of a Nation\") is a Punjabi movie based on life of Satwant Singh, Beant Singh and Kehar Singh who assassinated Indira Gandhi.\n\nAs of 22 August 2014, the movie is barred from release in India. Punjab units of Indian National Congress and Bhartiya Janata Party have demanded a ban on the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "17392070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392070", "title": "Land reform in Romania", "text": "Land reform in Romania\n\nFour major land reforms have taken place in Romania: in 1864, 1921, 1945 and 1991. The first sought to undo the feudal structure that had persisted after the unification of the Danubian Principalities in 1859; the second, more drastic reform, tried to resolve lingering peasant discontent and create social harmony after the upheaval of World War I and extensive territorial expansion; the third, imposed by a mainly Communist government, did away with the remaining influence of the landed aristocracy but was itself soon undone by collectivisation (considered by some as yet another land reform), which the fourth then unravelled, leading to almost universal private ownership of land today.\n\nThe 1864 land reform was the first of its kind in Romania, taking place during the reign of Alexandru Ioan Cuza. It came on the heels of the secularization of monastery estates, achieved in December 1863 on Mihail Kogălniceanu's initiative and taking over a quarter of the country's area away from the Orthodox Church. The question of land reform was an essential point of Cuza's political programme, and he and Kogălniceanu had wider aims: the abolition of compulsory labour and the establishment of private small holdings. Conservative landowners expressed opposition in Parliament, leading to a bitter political struggle culminating in its dissolution in the coup of 2 May 1864. The draft law was written by the Council of State, amended by the Government and promulgated by the prince on 14/26 August 1864. His proclamation announced to the peasants: \"The \"corvée\" is forever abolished and you are henceforth free proprietors in the places subjected to your control\". The law freed peasants from feudal tasks: the \"corvée\", the tithe, the transport tax and maintenance days; it did away with feudal monopolies in the villages, at the same time specifying that compensation would be paid to the owners.\n\nThus, for 15 years, in order to defray the cost of their no longer performing the \"corvée\" and the other feudal duties, peasants were required to pay into an indemnity fund that issued bonds redeemable in instalments an annual fee of 51-133 lei, depending on their category and region; this was a heavy burden for the majority and ruined the poorest. They also had to pay for the land they now owned, albeit at a price below market value. The quantity of expropriated land was not to exceed ⅔ of the domains' area (the boyars kept the best third, taking advantage of a provision calling for the consolidation, wherever possible, of pastures, hayfields and arable plots scattered by successive inheritances in order to get rid of their poorest quality land) and selling or mortgaging the lots was forbidden for 30 years, after which the village commune could exercise its right of pre-emption. This reform gave 1,654,965 ha (6,389.86 mi²) of land to 406,429 peasants; another 60,651 received lots only for a house and garden. Later, 48,432 additional families of newlyweds (who did not come under the law's provisions but were permitted to settle on state-owned lands near their village) received 228,329 hectares. Implementation of the law was by and large complete by 1865 but was slowed by a lack of comprehensive regulations concerning both general procedures and special cases; moreover, friction between landlords and peasants ensued because the latter had no confidence in the private surveyors hired by landlords to delimit their new holdings from the rest of the estate. In the year following 1864, agricultural production stagnated or even fell in some regions, partly because many owners had done nothing to compensate for the loss of the \"corvée\", and also because many peasants did not know what land would be theirs and were reluctant to raise crops that might not be theirs, but by the spring of 1866 production once again rose. After the reform, land owned by peasants (that is, former \"corvée\" members, free peasants and small proprietors) covered around 30% of the national territory, with 70% still in state or landlord hands. The reform had important social consequences, giving the peasants a civic motivation and assuring them a means of subsistence; it was also enshrined in the 1866 Constitution.\n\nNevertheless, three factors undermined the reform. First, too little land was assigned to too many candidates even though many farmers were excluded from the redistribution and went on working in semi-serfdom on the boyars' estates. Second, demographic increase caused devastating rural overpopulation. Third, inheritance practices based on equally divided portions led to deep property fragmentation. Thus, the new landowners quickly ran into debt and because of the inadequate banking system had to borrow from boyars, large tenants or usurers at exorbitant interest rates. Instead, some peasants transferred the land back to the former owners and continued working it essentially as before. This new system of dependency prompted by the lack of arable land and pasture was dubbed \"neo-serfdom\" (\"neoiobăgie\") by the Marxist theorist Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea. Moreover, forests, essential for many households' economic well-being, were excluded from distribution; peasants could use them for fifteen years, after which the landlord could reclaim his property rights to them. The reform also gave rise to political clash: the Liberals saw it as a starting point for dynamic, reasoned change, while the majority of Conservatives tried to use the 1864 law to defend their property against further expropriation, believing the social question had been resolved.\n\nBy 1913, Romania was the world's fourth-largest wheat exporter, but the issue of inequitable land distribution became persistently troublesome (and indeed was exacerbated that year when Romanian peasants fought in the Second Balkan War, witnessing first-hand the far more equitable land distribution scheme in place in Bulgaria). In the late 19th century about 2,000 landowners controlled over half the land while peasants (with little representation in government as well as limited access to land and ownership rights) had just a third. In 1888 peasant discontent with inequitable land distribution resulted in bloody confrontations that brought about partial and ineffective agrarian reforms. The unequal system continued to drive the peasantry into bankruptcy and seemed to lead increasingly toward a system of absentee ownership. Almost two decades later, a second, more violent episode took place: the 1907 Romanian Peasants' Revolt, which almost caused a full-blown revolution and led to the deaths of several thousand peasants once the army intervened. As a consequence, the government introduced new legislation in 1907-08 to benefit the peasants, including a new law on agricultural contracts and a law establishing a rural credit bank (Casa Rurală) intended to facilitate purchases and leases, transferring property from large landowners to peasants. However, these laws (influenced by the \"poporanist\" trend of Constantin Stere) were poorly enforced, a wholly inadequate amount of land was made available for purchase and the vast majority of the peasantry did not even qualify for most of the assistance made available.\n\nThe 1921 land reform was the second great distribution of land in Romanian history, the largest measure of its kind in Eastern Europe in its day. On 23 March/5 April 1917, at the height of World War I, King Ferdinand promised there would be a substantial increase in the number of new property owners (as well as universal male suffrage). He undertook this commitment as a way of repaying the soldiers and their families for sacrifices made, but also sought to mobilise them to hold the front and avoid revolution–the announcement came just weeks after the February Revolution toppled Russia's tsar. The reform was preceded by a number of decisions adopted between 1917 and 1920. In order to give it a legal basis, the two chambers of Parliament decided to modify article 19 of the 1866 Constitution. The provision, which formerly declared \"property of any nature\" to be \"sacred and inviolable\" (and was adopted mainly to protect against new agrarian reform), had the following text added: \"because of national necessity, the extension of rural peasant properties is advanced through the expropriation of arable lands, with the intent of selling them to the peasants\". On 20 March 1920 the rural law for Bessarabia was adopted; followed by similar provisions for Muntenia, Oltenia, Moldavia and Dobrudja on 17 July 1921, and on 30 July 1921 for Transylvania, Banat, Crişana, Maramureş and Bukovina. One law was passed for each region owing to their very different socioeconomic structures, relations and specific contexts. The PNR government of Alexandru Vaida-Voevod had a fully comprehensive land reform programme, but on 13 March 1920 the King dismissed this cabinet despite its backing by a substantial parliamentary majority, a clear sign that the Bucharest-based elite would try and govern the enlarged state by traditional methods; in 1922, Ion Mihalache of the PŢ (who as agriculture minister had drafted the first proposal) blasted the ensuing reform as a \"kind of safety valve\" whereby \"the ruling class made only such concessions as were necessary to assure its own existence\". As adopted, the reform was a Liberal-Conservative bargain, decided upon in private by Ion Brătianu and Take Ionescu, who persuaded the former to abandon his intention of expropriating the soil. Ultimately, all classes had come to see the futility and even danger of trying to preserve the old system. Many conservatives hoped efficiency and productivity would improve; liberals backed the measure on principle but also desired that agriculture served the needs of industry; and agrarianists dreamt of creating a peasant state on the basis of these changes. The threat of social upheaval from below and the need to maintain national solidarity in the face of irredentist neighbours also contributed to the enactment of reform.\n\nThe distribution of land to the peasants was achieved by expropriating the estates of foreign citizens, of absentee landowners (those who did not work their own land), arable land belonging to the Crown Domains and to Casa Rurală, land leased to tenants (\"arendaşi\") for over five years, floodplains, etc. Expropriated parcels measured over 150, 300 or, in certain cases, 500 ha. The total area of expropriated land came to 5,804,837.83 ha (22,412.60 mi², of which some 3.7 million ha were arable), while 1,393,383 peasants received property (648,843 in the Old Kingdom, 310,583 in Transylvania, 357,016 in Bessarabia and 76,941 in Bukovina). The technical part of the reform–measuring the land subject to expropriation and parcelling it out to individuals–was very slow: by 1927 only about half the land from estates subject to the process had been measured, and of this, around 1,100,000 ha had been divided for distribution, which continued into the 1930s. After the land reform, large landowners (\"moşieri\") owned 10.4% of the country's arable surface, compared to 47.7% before. Small holdings rose from 52.3% to 89.6% of total arable land. Former owners received reimbursements in long-term bonds, and peasants were to repay 65% of the expropriation costs over 20 years.\n\nIn Transylvania, large landowners were almost exclusively Hungarian, while those to whom land was distributed were largely, though not exclusively, Romanian. Land reform was carried out with considerably less zeal in the Old Kingdom, where landlords as well as peasants were Romanian; in Transylvania (and Bessarabia, where many large estates were Russian-owned), the new authorities saw reform as a means of increasing the titular nationality's dominance. Small landowners of Hungarian descent also experienced unequal application of the reforms; some were expropriated ostensibly in order to build a church or a school. The \"Hungarian\" churches (Roman Catholic, Reformed and Unitarian) were also weakened, losing some 85% of their lands, the income from which had supported their educational and charitable undertakings. Hungarians and Saxons reacted loudly against the measures, their leaders persistently denouncing what they saw as shady and sometimes openly corrupt methods whereby land reform was used to modify the area's ethnic makeup. (Notably, a reverse process had occurred from the end of the 19th century until World War I. The Hungarian government established a special fund to aid ethnic Hungarian farmers settle in Transylvanian districts with a significant non-Hungarian population, bringing in settlers from other regions if necessary and granting them privileges. This gave rise to a desire for retaliation among Transylvania's Romanians, achieved through the postwar agrarian reform.) In Bukovina, land reform was not markedly different from the Old Kingdom's; smallholdings grew by 28% and large estates were limited to 250 ha of arable land. However, large landowners were not required to give up their substantial forests, and arable land was scarce in relation to population density. In Bessarabia, where Sfatul Ţării voted to unite with Romania on 27 March/9 April 1918, land reform (also viewed as a \"sine qua non\" by Romanians in Transylvania and Bukovina) was attached as a prerequisite for union because it was already underway there but only theoretical in Romania. However, after implementing its own reform, Sfatul Ţării proclaimed union without conditions on 27 November/10 December.\n\nThe reform managed to subdivide private property into small pieces and create a certain equilibrium between former and new owners, leading to increased social stability, but the land's productivity did not experience substantial growth due to the rudimentary farming methods still employed. Average plots were 3.8 ha in size, less than the 5 ha needed for economic independence; the reform also suffered from corruption and protracted lawsuits. Ignorance, overpopulation, lack of farm implements and draft animals, too few rural credit institutions and excessive land fragmentation, exacerbated as the population grew, kept many peasants in poverty and yields inferior. Fewer pasturelands and forests, necessary for economic viability, were expropriated: by 1927, just 23% of the country's natural pastures and meadows had been distributed as common pastures, while only 12% of forests were ever distributed. The 1930 census found that 6,700 landowners held 24% of the land while 2.5 million farmers had 28%. Right before World War II, 8% of landowners still had about half the land, and in 1938 the country had just 4,039 tractors, implying one machine per 2,490 ha. Irrigated land, fertilizers, chemicals, seed and breeding stock were in similarly dismal supply.\n\nThe 1945 land reform was the first important political and economic act after the King Michael Coup of 23 August 1944, achieved by the new Petru Groza government on the basis of decree-law nr. 187/23 March 1945 for the realisation of land reform. The Romanian Communist Party (PCR) planned and applied the reform, also exploiting it for propaganda purposes in an attempt to form a popular base on the Soviet model (there too, collectivisation was preceded by land distribution). Its purpose, as the law's preamble declared, was to increase the size of arable surfaces of peasant holdings with less than 5 ha of land, to create new individual peasant holdings for landless agricultural labourers, to establish vegetable gardens at the outskirts of cities and industrial localities, and to reserve parcels for agricultural schools and experimental farms. Expropriation targeted land and farm property belonging to German citizens and Romanians who had collaborated with Nazi Germany during World War II, land and farm property belonging to \"war criminals\" and to those \"guilty of the national disaster\", lands of those who sought refuge in countries with which Romania was at war or who fled abroad after 23 August 1944, and of those who in the preceding 7 years had failed to cultivate their own holdings, goods belonging to those who had voluntarily registered to fight against the Allies, property belonging to physical persons that exceeded 50 ha (arable land, orchards, hayfields, pastures, ponds, dam lakes, marshes and floodplains). With all large properties remaining after the 1921 reform eliminated, the aristocracy was deprived of its economic base and final remnants of power, as were the wealthy German and Hungarian churches (Reformed, Unitarian and Lutheran).\n\nAfter the reform was announced, people who owned over 50 ha suffered the most, being subjected to intense pressure from the authorities and from Communist agitators, who from the end of 1944 had begun instigating peasants to occupy domains by force. Transylvanian Saxons and Banat Swabians were indiscriminately targeted, destroying many communities, but monastery, church and rural cooperative holdings, as well as those belonging to cultural and charitable organisations, escaped expropriation: the struggle for power was still ongoing and the Communists dared not alienate peasants, clergy and hostile intellectuals. Although the law specified that individuals whose land was expropriated received no compensation, the beneficiaries of the distribution had to pay for the land, albeit at an advantageous price (the cost of one hectare was fixed at the annual average value of what one hectare produced; at the time the land was received, the peasant paid an advance of 10%, the rest being paid in the following 10-20 years). This fee was not burdensome but instead formed part of a government strategy to convince the peasants that their possession of the land was definitive; all mention of collectivisation was avoided. The reform increased the PCR's popularity among the peasantry, but the growth was slight and temporary, so that the party still resorted to fraud in rural areas during the 1946 election. According to an official communiqué from January 1947, of 1,443,911 ha (5,574.97 mi²) expropriated from 143,219 owners, 1,057,674 ha were distributed to peasants, while 387,565 ha became state reserves. 726,129 families owning under 5 ha received land, the average lot measuring 1.3 ha. New data were released on 13 April 1948: 917,777 families had received a total of 1,109,562 ha of land (an average of 1.21 ha). Completed in spring 1948, the reform did not significantly alter the structure of agriculture: holdings remained as fragmented as before, production of non-grain crops and animals declined, the co-operative movement was neglected, and the amount of land received by families was so small that their economic and social status hardly changed. In any event, the peasants did not long enjoy their new properties, as collectivisation was launched in 1949.\n\nThe February 1991 land reform, which followed the Romanian Revolution of 1989, sought to privatise land resources that were in state hands during the Communist period. The goal was to restitute land in state cooperatives to its pre-collectivisation owners, with families that did not own land at the time also receiving small allotments. Amidst an anti-Communist public mood of 1990-91, the restored interwar parties (PNL and PNŢCD) loudly called for restitution; initially, the governing ex-Communist National Salvation Front resisted the demand and sought to grant all rural residents 0.5 ha, but in a bid to capture the rural vote, it gave in to pressure to dismantle the collectives, although capping the size of restored properties to 10 ha. (The Front claimed this would promote social equity, with others claiming a political motivation: the recreation of a viable, propertied middle class in agriculture, one that could exert certain kinds of pressure on the state, was precluded.) In addition to righting a perceived historical injustice, the reform also pleased Romanian farmers, who have a long tradition of working their own land and are tied to it not only for subsistence needs but also out of sentiment (for instance because their ancestors retained it through fighting in wars). Given that many families still held legal title as evidence of their claim to the land, and retained a clear memory of where their plots were located (a memory kept alive during Communism), failure to restitute risked creating significant social unrest. As well, given the relatively egalitarian land structure prevailing in 1949, historical justice (emphasised by the opposition) coincided with the social equity considerations that preoccupied the government.\n\nBefore the reform, 411 state farms and 3,776 cooperatives exploited almost all the country's arable land resources; in 1991, about 65% of this land–belonging to cooperatives–was restored to former owners or their heirs. About 3.7 million peasant households repossessed land, deciding to exploit it either individually or in associations. Peasants farms (the norm) were small, subsistence-based units of 2 to 3 ha each; family association farms covered 100 ha, and agricultural companies' farms were 500 ha in area. Reform of state farms, tangled in politics, was slower: in 1997, 60% of the area was taken up by peasant farms, 10% by family associations and 14% by agricultural companies, but state farms still accounted for 16%. By 2004, however, privatisation was largely complete, with the private sector representing 97.3% of production value that year (97.4% of vegetable production and 98.9% of animal production); plans are in place to sell off the remainder of state-owned farmland. Out of 2,387,600 ha (9,218.58 mi²) initially held by the state, 1,704,200 were returned based on Law 18/1991 and Law 1/2000; 574,600 were leased; and 108,800 were in the process of being leased at the end of 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "25189799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25189799", "title": "Manhattan Declaration: A Call of Christian Conscience", "text": "Manhattan Declaration: A Call of Christian Conscience\n\nThe Manhattan Declaration: A Call of Christian Conscience is a manifesto issued by Orthodox, Catholic, and Evangelical Christian leaders to affirm support of \"the sanctity of life, traditional marriage, and religious liberty\". It was drafted on October 20, 2009, and released November 20, 2009, having been signed by more than 150 American religious leaders. On the issue of marriage, the declaration objects not only to same-sex marriage but also to the general erosion of the \"marriage culture\" with the specter of divorce, greater acceptance of infidelity and the uncoupling of marriage from childbearing.\n\nThe Declaration's website encourages supporters to sign the declaration, and it counts 551,130 signatures .\n\nThe declaration vows civil disobedience if Christians feel that their rights to civil liberties of free exercise of religion and freedom of speech are being violated. It states that Christianity has taught through the centuries that civil disobedience is not only permitted, but sometimes required, and refers to Martin Luther King, Jr.'s defense of the rights and duties of religious conscience in his \"Letter from Birmingham Jail\".\n\nOne of the drafters, Princeton University professor Robert P. George, stated, \"We certainly hope it doesn't come to that. However, we see case after case of challenges to religious liberty\", including laws which he claims would force health care workers to assist in abortions or pharmacists to carry abortifacient drugs or birth control. George continued, \"When the limits of conscience are reached and you cannot comply, it's better to suffer a wrong than to do it.\"\n\nCatholic Archbishop of Washington, Donald Wuerl's office was restrained about the issue of civil disobedience, indicating that the prelate was not calling on the faithful to \"do anything specific\".\n\nIn August 2012, the Manhattan Declaration's call to \"civil disobedience\" was cited in a lawsuit under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, in which the Beachy Amish-Mennonite Christian Brotherhood is accused of helping a Baptist woman kidnap to Nicaragua her daughter as part of a child custody dispute with her former lesbian partner. Liberty University School of Law was also a named defendant in the lawsuit, because of alleged instruction to law students that \"the correct course of action for such a situation would be to 'engage in civil disobedience' and defy court orders\".\n\nNotable signatories include:\n\n\nThe document was written by evangelical leader Charles Colson, Princeton University law professor Robert P. George and Beeson Divinity School dean Timothy George.\n\nSome religious leaders have criticized and protested the Manhattan Declaration, calling its principles in general, and its opposition to same-sex marriage in particular, contrary to the teachings of Jesus. Catholic scholar Anthony Stevens-Arroyo wrote, \"While two wars are being waged, with unemployment in double digits, the financial system of the world in suspense, these religious leaders declare that abortion, stem-cell use and same sex marriage override any other Gospel value. (You won't find Jesus saying anything about abortion or stem cells in the Gospel, but the Savior said a great deal about the homeless, the sick, and the hungry.) It's cheating to speak pious platitudes about Christianity and ignore Jesus' words.\"\n\nSome discussed the document as a political strategy, regarding it as the religious right's effort to re-establish its relevance in the public square, but others noted that younger generations of evangelicals and Catholics were less likely to oppose same-sex marriage and more likely to prioritize economic issues over social, and that the document was thus unlikely to win them over. Stevens-Arroyo criticized fellow Catholics who signed the declaration for aligning themselves with evangelicals in what he described as opposition to the separation of church and state.\n\nThe declaration's invocation of Martin Luther King and of the principles of civil disobedience has also been questioned. An editorial in the \"Los Angeles Times\" characterized the invocation of King as \"specious\" and criticized the document, belittling the \"anecdotes\" regarding restrictions on Christians' religious freedom as \"of the sort radio talk-show hosts purvey\" or from outside the United States, and noting that federal law already exempts \"believers in some cases from having to comply with applicable laws.\"\n\nIn response to a petition which argued the Manhattan Declaration app promoted bigotry and homophobia, which received 7,000 signatures, Apple removed the app from iPhones and iPads, in November 2010, and later from iTunes. Apple told CNN that the app had been removed because it \"violates our developer guidelines by being offensive to large groups of people\". The app had originally been rated by Apple as a +4, meaning that it contained no material deemed objectionable.\n\nA month later, organizers of the Manhattan Declaration resubmitted a modified version of the app. The new version lacks a \"quiz\", which, in the old version, had asked questions about political issues and assigned a score based on a set of normative answers. As of December 10, 2010, more than 45,000 had signed a petition to have it reinstated. Charles Colson voiced apprehension that Apple's move could have negative implications for more Christian apps, stating: \"There is nothing in the Manhattan Declaration that is not rooted in Scripture. So if that becomes the offense then all the other apps would be subject to the same charge.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57358193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57358193", "title": "Ministry of Social Affairs (Austria)", "text": "Ministry of Social Affairs (Austria)\n\nIn Austrian politics, the Ministry of Social Affairs (\"Sozialministerium\") is the ministry in charge of welfare policy.\n\nThe current Minister of Social Affairs is Beate Hartinger-Klein.\n\nThe Ministry was first created in 1917 as the Ministry of Social Welfare (\"Ministerium für soziale Fürsorge\"). In its modern form, it dates back to the 1987 establishment of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (\"Ministerium für Arbeit und Soziales\"). As of January 2018, the Ministry's official name is Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs, Health, and Consumer Protection (\"Bundesministerium für Arbeit, Soziales, Gesundheit und Konsumentenschutz\"). It is responsible for welfare, senior citizens affairs, health care, and consumer policy; it is also charged with stimulating job creation and fighting unemployment. \nIn spite of its official designation, the Ministry is only rarely referred to as the Ministry of Labor (\"Arbeitsministerium\"). The moniker does see occasional use, but the traditional short form of Ministry of Social Affairs (\"Sozialministerium\") clearly predominates.\n\nThe Ministry was first established in 1917 as the Ministry of Social Welfare (\"Ministerium für soziale Fürsorge\"). Created in the final days of World War I, a time of widespread hunger and destitution, it was concerned almost exclusively with pensions and benefits for subjects widowed, crippled, or impoverished by the conflict. After the war, it took control of Austria's developing system of social insurance. Gradually expanding, it existed in more or less its original form until 1987.\n\nAustria did not have a Ministry of Labor, or any other cabinet-level government agency with Labor in its name, for much of its existence. \nIn the decade leading up to the Anschluss and to World War II, implacable hostility between Social Democrats and Christian Conservatives had eroded civil society, undermined democratic institutions, and sparked a civil war; the Christian Social Party eventually manufactured a constitutional crisis that allowed it to replace the Republic of Austria with the Federal State of Austria, a Fascist single-party state. In light of these experiences, Austrian politicians chose to reinvent the country as a consociationalist republic when Nazi Germany had collapsed and Austria, devastated and occupied by the victors, needed to be rebuilt.\n\nFor the first few decades of postwar Austria, its new ethos of consensus decision making was an undisputed success, at least in terms of stability and prosperity.\nSocial Democrats and Conservatism, while still intensely mistrustful of each other's motives and jealous of each other's influence, ruled the country through a series of constructive and mutually beneficial \"grand coalition\" cabinets. The \"Sozialpartnerschaft\", a system of ritualized confrontation and conflict resolution between state-sponsored industrialists' lobbies and state-sponsored workers' unions, essentially dictated social policy to Parliament − while obviously questionable from a perspective of democratic purism, the system created rapid economic growth, near-full employment, and general social harmony all at the same time. It simply did not occur to either party that a dedicated Ministry of Labor should be necessary to protect workers' interests.\n\nWhen Franz Vranitzky did establish a Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (\"Bundesministerium für Arbeits und Soziales\") in 1987 by extending and renaming the existing Ministry of Social Affairs, the move was a consequence of the decay of the postwar system. The Wirtschaftswunder years were over. Austria's nationalized heavy industries were in trouble. Some of the country's largest employers were in danger; the credibility of the \"Sozialpartnerschaft\" was suffering. At the same time, Austria's party landscape was changing: the combined vote share of Social Democrats and People's Party was declining; parliamentarism was becoming more vigorous and assertive. It was clear that future cabinets were going to have to take charge of employment policy and workers' welfare more directly and with more parliamentary accountability.\n\nIn 1997, the Klima cabinet dissolved the Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection and transferred its responsibilities in matters of health care to what was now called the Ministry of Labor, Health, and Social Affairs (\"Bundesministerium für Arbeit, Gesundheit und Soziales\"). The Chancellery was put in charge of consumer protection.\n\nA few years and one election later, in 2003, the Schüssel I cabinet split the Ministry into three: Labor was attached to the Ministry of Economy. Social Affairs became a ministry in its own right again; Health became a standalone ministry as well. The new Ministry of Health was also in charge of family affairs; the Ministry of Social Affairs took back consumer protection from the Chancellery. A few years later, in 2009, responsibilities were shuffled again: the Faymann cabinet removed labor affairs from the Ministry of Economy, creating an independent Ministry of Labor once again; Labor then absorbed Social Affairs.\n\nIn 2018, the Ministry also absorbed the Ministry of Health.\n\nAs of May 2018, the ministry consists of the Minister and her personal staff (\"Kabinett\"), the office of the director general (\"Generalsekretär\"), and ten numbered regular departments (\"Sektionen\"):\n\nThe Minister and her staff are political appointees; the director general and the section heads are career civil servants.\n\n"}
{"id": "49227892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49227892", "title": "Miss Sloane", "text": "Miss Sloane\n\nMiss Sloane is a 2016 political thriller film, directed by John Madden and written by Jonathan Perera. The film stars Jessica Chastain, Mark Strong, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Michael Stuhlbarg, Alison Pill, Jake Lacy, John Lithgow, and Sam Waterston.\n\nThe film had its world premiere on November 11, 2016, at the AFI Fest, and began a limited theatrical release in the United States on November 25, 2016, by EuropaCorp, before expanding wide on December 9, 2016. It was released in France on March 8, 2017. It received generally positive reviews, and Chastain's performance was acclaimed by critics.\n\nElizabeth Sloane (Jessica Chastain) is a cutthroat lobbyist who has been called to appear at a congressional hearing led by Senator Ronald Sperling (John Lithgow) to answer questions about possible violations of Senate ethics rules during her tenure at Washington D.C. lobbying firm Cole Kravitz & Waterman.\n\nThree months and one week earlier, Sloane's firm is approached by gun manufacturing representative Bill Sanford (Chuck Shamata) to lead the opposition to the proposed Heaton-Harris bill that would expand background checks on gun purchases, specifically by targeting female voters. Sloane ridicules Sanford's idea and is later approached by Rodolfo Schmidt (Mark Strong), the head of rival lobbying firm Peterson Wyatt, to instead lead the effort in support of the bill. Sloane agrees and takes most of her staff along with her, though her assistant Jane Molloy (Alison Pill) refuses to leave.\n\nAt Peterson Wyatt, Sloane selects Esme Manucharian (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) to conduct the majority of the firm's media appearances, and they begin to make significant progress in garnering votes for the bill. Sloane confronts Esme with knowledge of her background as having witnessed a school shooting, and promises not to disclose the information, but Sloane breaks her promise and reveals Esme's secret during a live television debate. Later, Esme is held up at gunpoint while leaving her office, but her attacker is shot dead by another civilian who is legally carrying a gun. Gun rights supporters capitalize on this event, which causes the Heaton-Harris bill to lose support in the Senate. This is compounded by the news of the senate inquiry into Sloane's potentially illegal lobbying practices.\n\nThe narrative returns to the congressional hearing. Senator Sperling produces a form requesting approval of overseas travel for a senator. It was filed by a non-profit organization but completed in Sloane's handwriting, indicating she illegally played a role in arranging the travel. Sloane also swears under oath that she has never practiced illegal wiretapping.\n\nIn her final statement at the hearing, Sloane admits she anticipated the opposition might attack her personally if Peterson Wyatt made too much progress with the Heaton-Harris bill. She reveals that she had someone (Jane Molloy) secretly working for her the entire time, and that she had indeed used wiretapping, to record Senator Sperling accepting bribes from Cole Kravitz & Waterman boss George Dupont (Sam Waterston).\n\nTen months later, Sloane is visited by her lawyer in prison, and it is revealed the Heaton-Harris bill passed but at the cost of her career.\n\nThe film ends with Sloane being released from prison.\n\nIn September 2015, it was announced that Jessica Chastain had been set to star in the film, with John Madden directing, from a screenplay by Jonathan Perera. Ben Browning produced, under his FilmNation Entertainment banner, and Patrick Chu executive produced, while EuropaCorp produced and financed the film, and handles worldwide distribution. In January 2016, it was announced that Alison Pill, Jake Lacy, and Gugu Mbatha-Raw had joined the cast. In February 2016, Douglas Smith, Mark Strong, Michael Stuhlbarg, Sam Waterston, John Lithgow, and Enis Esmer also joined, and in March 2016, Meghann Fahy joined the cast of the film as well. Max Richter composed the film's score.\n\nPrincipal photography began on February 12, 2016, in Toronto. In March 2016, Jessica Chastain was spotted on set filming. Production in Toronto wrapped on March 30, 2016. In April 2016, additional shooting took place in Washington, D.C. Principal photography concluded on April 6, 2016.\n\nIn August 2016, two images of Chastain were released. The film had its world premiere at the AFI Fest on November 11, 2016, and also screened at the Napa Valley Film Festival on November 13, 2016. The film was originally scheduled to be released on December 9, 2016, and was later moved up to November 25.\n\nThe film began its wide release alongside the openings \"Office Christmas Party\" and \"The Bounce Back\", and the wide expansion of \"Nocturnal Animals\". The film was projected to gross $2–4 million in its wide opening weekend, but ended up making only $1.8 million, finishing 11th at the box office. Overall, the film grossed $3.3 million in the United States and Canada, and $5.6 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $9.9 million, against its production budget of $13 million. \"Miss Sloane\" is ranked number 75 by per-theater average on Box Office Mojo’s list of \"Worst Opening Weekend\" films released since 1982.\n\n\"Miss Sloane\" received generally positive reviews from critics. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 76%, based on 182 reviews, with an average rating of 6.5/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Miss Sloane\" sits squarely on the shoulders of Jessica Chastain's performance – and she responds with awards-worthy work that single-handedly elevates the film.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 64 out of 100, based on 41 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A-\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "13467503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467503", "title": "Musta'arabi Jews", "text": "Musta'arabi Jews\n\nMusta'arabi Jews (Musta'aribun in Arabic, Musta'arabim or Mista'arevim in Hebrew) are Arabic-speaking Jews, largely Mizrahi and Maghrebi Jews, who lived in the Middle East and North Africa prior to the arrival and integration of Ladino-speaking Sephardi Jews (Jews from Spain and Portugal; Ladino is the Judaeo-Spanish language) following their expulsion from Spain in 1492. Following the expulsion, Sephardi exiles moved into the Middle East (among other places around the world), and settled among their Musta'arabi co-religionists.\n\nIn many Arab countries, the Sephardi immigrants and the established Musta'arabi communities maintained separate synagogues and separate religious rituals, but often had a common Chief Rabbinate. The general tendency, however, was for both the communities and their customs to assimilate, adopting a mostly Sephardic liturgy and identity. This pattern was found in most Musta'arabi communities in Arab countries. A typical example is in the History of the Jews in Syria, described in more detail in the rest of this article.\n\nIn contrast, in Tunisia there was a strong and enduring social distinction between \"Tuansa\" (the established Tunisian Jews) and \"L'grana\" (immigrant Livornese Jews from Italy to Tunisia).\n\nThe word \"Musta'arabi\" itself, and its Hebrew equivalent \"mista'arevim\", meaning \"those who live among the Arabs\", are derived from the Arabic \"musta'rib\" (مستعرب), meaning “arabized”. Compare with the term \"Mozarab\" (mozárabe in Spanish, borrowed from Arabic) to refer to Arabized (but not Islamized) Christian Spaniards in Arab ruled Islamic Spain. \"Musta'arabi\" was also used by medieval Jewish authors to refer to Jews in North Africa, in what would become the modern states of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya (which also underwent cultural and linguistic Arabization following the Muslim conquest there).\n\nFollowing the Muslim conquest of Syria, Syria and the surrounding region was brought under Arab rule in the first half of the 7th century, and the Jews of the land, like the Christian majority at that time, became culturally Arabized, adopting many of the ways of the new foreign elite minority rulers, including the language. Furthermore, some of the Jews, and the greater part of the Christians for that matter, were also Islamized, and these form the ancestors of the bulk of the \"Arab Muslims\" of the Levant.\n\nMusta'arabim, in the Arabized Hebrew of the day, was used to refer to Arabic-speaking Jews native to Greater Syria who were, \"like Arabs\" or \"culturally Arabic-oriented\". These Musta'arabim were also called \"Murishkes\" or \"Moriscos\" by the Sephardi immigrants. This may be either a corruption of \"Mashriqis\" (Easterners) or a Ladino word meaning \"like Moors\" or \"Moorish\" (compare with the Spanish word Morisco).\n\nThe Musta'arabi Jews in Israel constituted one of the three main components of the Old Yishuv (Jewish community of Palestine), together with the Sephardi Jews, and Ashkenazi Jews. The latter were a minority whose numbers shrank further due to intermarriage with Sephardim. The Musta'arabi Jews in Israel were descendants of the ancient Hebrews, who never left the Land of Israel, instead remaining there from the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE to the First Aliyah in 1881, prior to the onset of Zionist immigration.\n\nUnder the rule of the Ottoman Empire in the mid-16th century, there were no more than 10,000 Jews divided between numerous groups of congregations in all of Israel. Within the Jewish community at this time, there was some conflict between the Musta'arabim and Jews who had immigrated to Israel from Spain and Sicily. Later on, there was also conflict between Jewish citizens of the Ottoman Empire and those who held foreign passports. From 1839 onward, Jewish subjects of the Ottoman Empire, including the Musta'arabim, were represented by a locally nominated rabbi, whose appointment to serve as a \"hakham rashi\" or \"chief rabbi\" required approval from the Ottoman authorities. This hierarchical system paralleled one previously established for Christian bishops in the empire.\n\nDue the persecution of the rural Jewish population since the Islamic period into the Crusader, Mamluk and Ottoman periods, the Musta'arabim decreased from a majority of the Galilee's population to its smallest minority. Many modern Muslim, Christian and Druze villages are built on the sites of ancient Jewish villages. In many of them there were indigenous Jewish villagers until the Ottoman period. Only in Peki'in there was a Musta'arabi population that has survived. Due to the Arab revolt in the '30s they were forced to evacuate their ancestral historic village and to move to Hadera, where most of them are living today. The synagogues and cemeteries of Musta'arabi Jews, as in Peki'in, are considered the oldest in the Jewish world and can be dated largely to the Talmudic period but also to Mishnaic and Second Temple period.\n\nUnlike the majority of the Jewish communities, Musta'arabi Jews of Israel remained mostly rural farmers as in the ancient periods of Israel.\n\nThe Aleppo Musta'arabim in Syria originally had a distinct way of worship, set out in a distinct prayer book called \"Maḥzor Aram Soba\". This ritual is thought to reflect Eretz Yisrael rather than Babylonian traditions in certain respects, in particular in the prominence of piyyut (see below). In a broad sense, it falls within the \"Sephardi\" rather than the \"Ashkenazi\" family of rituals, but has resemblances to non-standard Sephardi rites such as the Catalan rather than to the normative Castilian rite. It also contains some archaic features which it shares with the Siddur of Saadia Gaon and Maimonides' laws of prayer.\n\nThe following are some of the differences that stand out in the Aram Soba Maḥzor. \n\nOn March 9, 2009, the Sephardic Pizmonim Project posted a scanned PDF of the 1560 Venetian edition of the \"Maḥzor Aram Soba\" to the \"Archives\" section of its site. A mirror of the work is also available. For further links to both the 1527 and 1560 editions, see below. In addition, a weekday version of Maḥzor Aram Soba 1560 can be found here.\n\nA facsimile edition has recently been published by Yad HaRav Nissim, using pages from the best surviving copies of the 1527 edition.\n\nAfter the immigration of Jews from Spain following the expulsion, a compromise liturgy evolved containing elements from the customs of both communities, but with the Sephardic element taking an ever-larger share. One reason for this was the influence of the Shulchan Aruch, and of the Kabbalistic usages of Isaac Luria, both of which presupposed a Sephardic (and specifically Castilian) prayer text; for this reason a basically \"Sephardic\" type of text replaced many of the local Near and Middle Eastern rites over the course of the 16th to 19th centuries, subject to a few characteristic local customs retained in each country. (See Sephardic law and customs#Liturgy for more detail.)\n\nIn Syria, as in North African countries, there was no attempt to print a Siddur containing the actual usages of the community, as this would not generally be commercially viable. Major publishing centres, principally Livorno, and later Vienna, would produce standard \"Sephardic\" prayer books suitable for use in all communities, and particular communities such as the Syrians would order these in bulk, preserving any special usages by oral tradition. (For example, Ḥacham Abraham Hamaoui of Aleppo commissioned a series of prayer-books from Livorno, which were printed in 1878: these were \"pan-Sephardic\" in character, with some notes referring to \"minhag Aram Soba\".)\n\nAs details of the oral tradition faded from memory, the liturgy in use came still nearer to the \"Livorno\" standard. Nevertheless, a distinction persisted between the \"Sephardic\" rite (based on the Livorno siddurim) and the \"Musta'arabi\" rite (basically similar, but retaining some features derived from the older tradition).\n\nIn the early years of the twentieth century, the \"Sephardic\" rite was almost universal in Syria. The only exception (in Aleppo) was a \"Musta'arabi\" minyan at the Central Synagogue of Aleppo, but even their liturgy differed from the \"Sephardic\" in only a few details such as the order of the hymns on Rosh Hashanah. Some differences between the two main prayer books published in Aleppo in the early twentieth century may reflect Sephardi/Musta'arabi differences, but this is not certain: current Syrian rite prayer books are based on both books.\n\nApproximately 30% of the \"Mahzor Aram Soba\" is composed of \"piyyutim\".\n\nThe use of \"piyyutim\", which was very prominent on the holidays and Shabbat, was not limited to the Syrian Musta'arabi community, but occurred in most Jewish communities. The earliest \"piyyutim\" however, were “overwhelmingly [from] [Eretz Israel] or its neighbor Syria, [because] only there was the Hebrew language sufficiently cultivated that it could be managed with stylistic correctness, and only there could it be made to speak so expressively.” The earliest Eretz Yisrael prayer manuscripts, found in the Cairo Genizah, often consist of \"piyyutim\", as these were the parts of the liturgy that required to be written down: the wording of the basic prayers was generally known by heart. The use of \"piyyut\" was always considered an Eretz Yisrael speciality: the Babylonian Geonim made every effort to discourage it and restore what they regarded as the statutory wording of the prayers, holding that \"any [hazzan] who uses \"piyyut\" thereby gives evidence that he is no scholar\". Accordingly, scholars classifying the liturgies of later periods usually hold that, the more a given liturgy makes use of \"piyyutim\", the more likely it is to reflect Eretz Yisrael as opposed to Babylonian influence. This, if correct, would put the \"Mahzor Aram Soba\" firmly in the Eretz Yisrael camp. However, the \"piyyutim\" in the \"Mahzor Aram Soba\" resemble those of the Spanish school rather than the work of early Eretz Yisrael \"payyetanim\" such as Eleazar Kalir: for example, they are in strict Arabic metres and make little use of Midrash. Also, they are generally placed in a block at the beginning of the service, like today's Baqashot, rather than expanding on and partially replacing core parts of the prayers. Accordingly, the prevalence of \"piyut\" does not of itself establish a link with the old Palestinian rite, though such a link may be argued for on other grounds.\n\nFollowing the dominance in Syria of the Sephardic rite, which took the Geonic disapproval of \"piyyut\" seriously, most of these \"piyyutim\" were eliminated from the prayer book. Some of them survive as pizmonim, used extra-liturgically.\n\nThe Syrian Musta'arabim have completely assimilated with the Sephardic Jews and are no longer a distinct entity. Certain families identify as \"Sephardim\" in the narrower sense, and are distinguished by their practice of lighting an extra candle on Hanukkah. (This is said to be in gratitude for their acceptance by the older community. It is not shared with Sephardim in other countries.)\n\nAccording to Joey Mosseri, a Sephardic historian living in the Syrian Jewish community in Brooklyn (USA), the last time the Musta'arabi liturgy was officially used was during the 1930s. Shelomo Salem Zafrani, of Aleppo, held daily services in the Musta'arabi Jewish rite, until his departure to the British Mandate of Palestine in the early 1930s. After his departure, there is no known public usage of this liturgy even in Aleppo itself. Today, Syrian Jews, with the exception of a few individuals living in Damascus, live outside of Syria, and do not distinguish between Musta'arabi and Sephardic Jews.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2362214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362214", "title": "Operation RAFTER", "text": "Operation RAFTER\n\nRAFTER was a code name for the MI5 radio receiver detection technique, mostly used against clandestine Soviet agents and monitoring of domestic radio transmissions by foreign embassy personnel from the 1950s on.\n\nSince most radio receivers are of the superhet design, they typically contain local oscillators which generate a radio frequency signal in the range of 455 kHz above or sometimes below the frequency to be received. There is always some radiation from such receivers, and in the initial stages of RAFTER, MI5 simply attempted to locate clandestine receivers based on picking up the superhet signal with a quite sensitive receiver that was custom built. This was not always easy because of the increasing number of domestic radios and televisions in people's homes.\n\nBy accident, one such receiver for MI5 mobile radio transmissions was being monitored when a passing transmitter produced a powerful signal. This overloaded the receiver, producing an audible change in the received signal. Quickly the agency realized that they could identify the actual frequency being monitored if they produced their own transmissions and listened for the change in the superhet tone.\n\nSince Soviet short-wave transmitters were extensively used to broadcast messages to clandestine agents, the transmissions consisting simply of number sequences read aloud and decoded using a one-time pad, it was realized that this new technique could be used to track down such agents. Specially equipped aircraft would fly over urban areas at times when the Soviets were transmitting, and attempt to locate receivers tuned to the Soviet transmissions.\n\nLike many secret technologies, RAFTER's use was attended by the fear of over-use, alerting the quarry and causing a shift in tactics which would neutralize the technology. As a technical means of intelligence, it was also not well supported by the more traditional factions in MI5. Its part in the successes and failures of MI5 at the time is not entirely known.\n\nIn his book \"Spycatcher\", MI5 officer Peter Wright related an incident in which a mobile RAFTER unit was driven around the backstreets in an attempt to locate a receiver, but the search proved futile. Initially, MI5 believed interference and the effects of large metal objects such as lamp posts in the surrounding frustrated the search. Later, however, they concluded that the receiver itself had been mobile, and the receiver may at one point have been parked next to the RAFTER unit but hidden by a high fence.\n"}
{"id": "25424731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25424731", "title": "Pakenham's Case", "text": "Pakenham's Case\n\nPakenham's Case, Y.B. 42 Ed. III 3, pl. 14, was an old English case that held that the owner of a manor could enforce a covenant that had been made with the previous owner of the manor. The covenant was that a convent and prior would sing in the manor chapel every week.\n"}
{"id": "2410806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2410806", "title": "Phil Kerpen", "text": "Phil Kerpen\n\nPhilip G. Kerpen is an American free-market policy analyst and political organizer. He is the president of American Commitment, a conservative 501(c)(4) organization which he founded in 2012. He previously served for over five years as the vice president of Americans for Prosperity.\n\nKerpen began his career in 1999 as an intern at the Cato Institute, because he “became disillusioned with insularity of academic debate” while attending the University of Pittsburgh.\n\nKerpen was a policy analyst for the Club for Growth. Until June 23, 2006, he was Policy Director for the Free Enterprise Fund, a United States free market advocacy group. Kerpen was the vice president of Americans for Prosperity for more than five years, ending his tenure there in April 2012. Kerpen is a syndicated columnist and a frequent radio and television commentator on economic growth issues. Kerpen is president of American Commitment, a conservative 501(c)(4) organization which he founded in 2012.\n\nIn 2011, Kerpen wrote a book entitled \"Democracy Denied: How Obama is Ignoring You and Bypassing Congress to Radically Transform America – and How to Stop Him\".\n\nA native of Brooklyn, Kerpen attended Stuyvesant High School. He lives in Washington, D.C. with his wife Joanna and their four children. His brother is social media entrepreneur Dave Kerpen.\n\n"}
{"id": "33172490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33172490", "title": "Political Asylum (2011 film)", "text": "Political Asylum (2011 film)\n\n\"Political Asylum\" is a short film created by Giacomo Mantovani in 2011. The production was completed in 12 26 days by a cast and crew of 7 people, on location in the central London. The short garnered its first award at the 242 Movie TV contest \"Creativi per Costituzione\", which was about\n\nThe short film is based on the 10th article of the Italian Constitution, which is about the Right of asylum: \nArt. 10\nThe Italian legal system conforms to the generally recognised rules of international law.\nThe legal status of foreigners is regulated by law in conformity with international rules and treaties. Foreigners who are, in their own Country, denied the actual exercise of those democratic freedoms guaranteed by the Italian Constitution, are entitled to the right of asylum in the Republic, under conditions provided by law. Foreigners may not be extradited for political offences.\n\nChased by police, the mysterious Julian makes its way through the streets of the metropolis, frantically looking for the Italian Embassy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "383114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383114", "title": "Quadroon", "text": "Quadroon\n\nHistorically in the context of slave societies of the Americas, a quadroon or quarteron was a person with one quarter African and three quarters European ancestry (or in the context of Australia, one quarter aboriginal ancestry). The terms are now archaic.\n\nSimilar classifications were octoroon for one eighth black (Latin root \"octo-\", means \"eight\") and hexadecaroon for one sixteenth black.\n\nGovernments incorporated the terms in law defining rights and restrictions. The use of such terminology is a characteristic of hypodescent, which is the practice within a society of assigning children of mixed unions to the ethnic group which is perceived by the dominant group as being subordinate. The racial designations refer specifically to the number of full-blooded African ancestors or equivalent, emphasizing the quantitative least, with quadroon signifying that a person has one-quarter black ancestry.\n\nThe word quadroon was borrowed from the French \"quarteron\" and the Spanish \"cuarterón\", both of which have their root in the Latin \"quartus\", meaning \"one quarter\", i.e. one-fourth. \n\nSimilarly the Spanish cognate \"cuarterón\" is sometimes used to describe someone whose racial origin is three-quarters White and one-quarter Indian, especially in Caribbean South America.\n\nQuadroon was used to designate a person of one-quarter African/Aboriginal ancestry, that is one biracial parent (African/Aboriginal and Caucasian) and one White or European parent; in other words, one African/Aboriginal grandparent and three White or European grandparents. In Latin America, which had a variety of terms for racial groups, some terms for quadroons were \"morisco\" or \"chino\", see \"casta\".\n\nThe term mulatto was used to designate a person who was biracial, with one pure black parent and one pure white parent, or a person whose parents are both Mulatto. In some cases, it became a general term to refer to all persons of mixed race.\n\nThe term octoroon referred to a person with one-eighth African/Aboriginal ancestry; that is, someone with family heritage of one biracial grandparent; in other words, one African great-grandparent and seven European great-grandparents. As with the use of quadroon, this word was applied to a limited extent in Australia for those of one-eighth Aboriginal ancestry, as the government implemented assimilation policies on the Stolen generation.\n\nTerceron was a term synonymous with octoroon, derived from being three generations of descent from an African ancestor (great-grandparent). The term mustee was also used to refer to a person with one-eighth African ancestry.\n\nThe term sacatra was used to refer to one who was seven-eighths black or African and one-eighth white or European (i.e. an individual with one black and one griffe parent or one white great-grandparent).\n\nThe term mustefino refers to a person with one-sixteenth African ancestry. The terms quintroon or hexadecaroon were also used.In the French Antilles, the following terms were used during the 18th century:\nIn Latin America, the terms griffe or sambo were sometimes used for an individual of three-quarters black parentage, i.e. the child of a Mulatto parent and a fully black parent.\n\nDuring the antebellum period, abolitionists featured mulattoes and other light-skinned former slaves in public lectures in the North, to arouse public sentiments against slavery by showing Northerners slaves who were visually indistinguishable from them, preventing them from putting the people in the category of \"other\".\n\nThe colonization of the West Indies by the British, and the establishment of an African slave population there, resulted in fictional characters described as \"mulatto\", \"quadroon\", or \"octoroon\", in several 19th century English novels:\n\nThe figure of the \"tragic octoroon\" or \"tragic mulatto\" became a stock character of abolitionist literature in the antebellum era:\nStereotypically, a light-skinned woman is raised as a white woman in her father's household, until his bankruptcy or death leaves her reduced to a menial position or even sold into slavery. In some cases, she may be unaware of her full ancestry before being reduced to victimization, as in:\nIn the period after the American Civil War, Southerners also began writing about people of mixed race, as a way to explore the many contradictions in a postwar society based on a binary division of race. The topic continues to be a means to explore race in society. Authors in the early 20th century were writing against a background of legal racial segregation and disfranchisement in the South; the successes of the civil rights movement have not solved all problems. Authors in the 21st century are writing historical novels set in the 19th century that explore racial permutations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48161867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48161867", "title": "Ransom strip", "text": "Ransom strip\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a ransom strip refers to a parcel of land needed to access an adjacent property from a public highway, to which the owner is denied access until payment is received. The strip of land can be either between the property and the highway, or be located between two properties. The width of the ransom strip can be as narrow as wide, but it can lead to significant conflict.\n\nThe Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors advises property owners to locate and price any ransom strip on a property, as the cost to release the \"ransom\" should be deducted from the overall purchase price of the property. The agreement to access such ransom strips is lodged with the Land Registry.\n\nAn owner is entitled to use the disputed property without payment if there has been 20 years of uninterrupted access.\n\nA ransom strip can also include permission to widen a public road leading to a property. In 1999, a 10-year dispute over a ransom strip in Riddlesden, West Yorkshire, resulted in a £1.6 million payment to a group of homeowners, who agreed to sell a tract of their properties to widen a road leading to a new development of 350 executive homes.\n\nThe term ransom strip is used in the rail transportation business if a train has to be equipped with safety systems from a monopoly supplier in order to travel on a short connecting line between two parts of a network that is equipped with standard systems.\n\nThe Law of Property Act 1925 makes it a criminal offence to drive across common land without permission.\n\nThe 1961 case of \"Stokes \"v.\" Cambridge\" determined that if a parcel of land would allow access to develop a neighbouring property, the owner of the land is entitled to one-third of its property value.\n\nThe 1925 law was cited in the case of businessman Michael Farrow, who in 1986 purchased the feudal title \"Lord of the Manor of Newtown\" at auction for £4,200 from the Earl of Carnarvon. Farrow claimed Newtown Common and registered it with the Land Registry. He then transferred it to his company, Bakewell Management, which requested a fee of 6% of the property value from all of the residents who used the common to access their property. He was initially successful, although the courts cited the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 to set at 2% of the value of their homes as the maximum amount that owners of ransom strips could charge homeowners. The House of Lords ultimately overturned Farrow's victory on 1 April 2004, deciding that the residents had satisfied the requirement of using the property continuously for 20 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "5004156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5004156", "title": "Raza Unida Party", "text": "Raza Unida Party\n\nPartido Nacional de La Raza Unida (National United People’s Party) is a Chicano political party centered on Chicano (Mexican-American) nationalism. It was born in the early 1970s and became prominent throughout Texas and Southern California. It was started to combat growing inequality and dissatisfaction with the Democratic Party that was typically supported by Mexican-American voters. After its establishment in Texas, the party launched electoral campaigns in Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico, and California, though it only secured official party status for statewide races in Texas. It did poorly in the 1978 Texas elections and leaders and members dropped away.\n\nLa Raza, as it was usually known, experienced most of its success at the local level in Southwest Texas, most notably when the party swept city council, school board, and mayoralty elections in Crystal City, Cotulla, and Carrizo Springs. Much of the success was attributed to the aggressive grassroots organizing that was concentrated in cities that had the lowest income and education levels.\n\nThe Mexican American Youth Organization, MAYO, was begun by five young men studying at St. Mary's in 1967: Jose Angel Gutierrez, Mario Compean, William Velasquez, Ignacio Perez, and Juan Patlan. As to what united them all in creating this organization, Jose Angel explained \"all of us were the products of the traditional Mexican American organizations […]All of us were very frustrated at the lack of political efficacy, at the lack of any broad based movement, and at the lack of expertise\". Inspired by the Civil Rights Movement and by leaders like Martin Luther King Jr and black nationalists like Malcolm X, they reached the conclusion that the actions being taken by the leaders of the Chicano Movement were not doing enough to get results. They decided that they would halt the current approach being utilized by groups like LULAC and the American G. I. Forum, \"which by the 1960's relied on litigation and support from sympathetic Anglos to achieve their goals\". The five men decided that their new tactics would be much more confrontational, utilizing civil disobedience tactics used in the Civil Rights Movement. They decided to incorporate Saul Alinsky's model of confrontation politics: \"And we said that was going to be the strategy[…] use confrontational politics based on information[…] well researched, but also foregoing the use of nice language\". MAYO became dedicated to creating meaningful social change by relying on abrasing, confrontational (but nonviolent) measures. They protested, picketed, and spread their message through newspapers like \"El Deguello, El Azteca,\"and \"La Revolucion\"\".\" Their tactics earned them criticisms both white and Mexican American political figures who felt that they were being too abrasive in their tactics. Jose Angel became targeted especially after comments he made where he called to \"eliminate the gringo\". While he elaborated to say that by gringo he meant \"a person or institution that has a certain policy or program, or attitudes that reflect bigotry, racism, discord, prejudice, and violence\", the damage was done. Despite attacks on all sides, MAYO continued to organize protests and boycotts, which is what ultimately led them to Crystal City.\n\nThe La Raza Unida Party started with simultaneous efforts throughout the U.S. Southwest. The most widely known and accepted story is that the La Raza Unida Party was established on January 17, 1970 at a meeting of some three hundred Mexican-Americans in Crystal City, Texas by José Ángel Gutiérrez and Mario Compean, who had also helped in the foundation of the Mexican American Youth Organization (MAYO) in 1967. In Lubbock, the youth organization was headed by the journalist Bidal Aguero, who later worked in the Raza Unida Party. The party originated from a group called WOW, or Workmen of the World. Its original thirteen members included Alfredo Zamora, Jr., the first Chicano mayor of Cotulla, Texas, who unseated a member of the Cotulla family. A second Hispanic mayor followed, Arcenio A. Garcia, who was twenty-four at the time of his election, the youngest mayor then in Texas. Zamora left LaSalle County within two years and the next election in 1972 was won by Garcia under the Raza Unida party. Previously in December 1969, at the only national MAYO meeting, Chicano activists decided on the formation of that third party Raza Unida. This new party would focus on improving the economic, social and political aspects of the Chicano community throughout Texas. This party resulted in the election of the first 2 Mexican American Mayors in LaSalle County.\n\nFollowing the victory of the RUP in municipal elections in Crystal City and Cotulla, the party grew and expanded to other states, especially California and Colorado. In Colorado the RUP worked closely with Rodolfo \"Corky\" Gonzales and the Crusade For Justice based out of Denver. In California, the RUP spread throughout the state and held strong ground in the County of Los Angeles at one point with as many as 20 different chapters.\n\nThe novice city council was not very effective in implementing its goals and damaged the party's reputation in the short-term. RUP, however, ran candidates for governor of Texas, Ramsey Muniz in 1972 and 1974 and Mario Compean of San Antonio in 1978. They petitioned the conservative Dr. Hector P. Garcia to run on the RUP ticket, but he declined. In 1972, they ran a candidate, Secundion Salazar, in a competitive U. S. Senate race in Colorado. Salazar received 1.4 percent of the vote, as victory went to the Democrat Floyd Haskell.\n\nDuring the late 1970s the La Raza Unida Party decided to change tactics from a \"get out the vote\" organization to a more community based, grassroots, revolutionary nationalist format seeking the unity of all Chicanos, other Latinos, and Native Americans in the American Southwest, commonly called Aztlán. Xenaro Ayala was voted in as the national party chairman in 1978. The party held a second national convention in which Juan Jose Pena was elected chairman in 1980. However, the party was effectively eliminated from electoral politics after Compean's weak showing in 1978.\n\nA reunion conference commemorating the 40th anniversary of the party was held from July 6 to 7, 2012, in the capital city of Austin. According to an organizer, the aging former members of the party wanted to get together for \"el ultimo adios,\" or \"one final goodbye\". Attendees included José Ángel Gutiérrez and Mario Compean.\n\nAfter initial successes where Chicanos were elected in the South Texas counties of Dimmit, La Salle, and Zavala, La Raza Unida Party decided to be more ambitious for the 1972 gubernatorial elections. The campaign run by La Raza Unida for the 1972 was extremely controversial because it was entirely racially based. The leaders of the party believed that change could only occur by appealing to the cultural and familial values shared by Mexican Americans. They also asserted that racism against Mexican Americans was so prolific that the entire political system would have to be reevaluated. Mario Compean, past spokesperson for La Raza Unida, said \"Ours was a message of liberation from […] a corrupt political system anchored on the twin pillars of racism and discrimination, on the one hand, and social subordination imposed by capitalism on the other\". The candidate endorsed by La Raza Unida was an ex-Baylor football-player-turned-lawyer named Ramsey Muñiz. He was, at the time, a political unknown, who had been involved with MAYO since 1968 but not distinguished himself.\n\nMuñiz ran an aggressive campaign, \"everywhere he went he hammered away at both parties, although the Democrats, who controlled the state legislature and the governor's mansion, received the brunt of the criticism\". In a speech at Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, he said, \n\nYa basta. Raza Unida offers the people an alternative and the days of being led to the polls to vote straight ticket for these two other parties are over… if it is not done this year, it will come next year or the next… as long as there are Mexican Americans there will be persons to replace people like me\" \n\nMuñiz ran on a campaign devoted to improving education in Texas, developing multilingual and multicultural curriculums, equal funding for all school districts, for local school boards to proportionately reflect their communities, free early childhood education, and a number of other services. Despite his immense popularity and recognition in the state as one of the leading Mexican-American political figures, his fellow LRUP candidates fell short in attaining the same level of popularity. Despite obstacles, Muñiz campaigned tirelessly both in the state and outside – targeting areas with high numbers of migrant workers from Texas. Similar to campaigns run previously in Crystal City, La Raza Unida distributed massive amounts of buttons, stickers, and posters along with holding huge vote drives on election day in the barrios.\n\nRamsay Muñiz lost his bid for governor in the 1972 elections. He obtained 6.28 percent of the vote, Dolph Briscoe – the Democratic candidate – received 47.8 percent of the vote, and Republican Henry Grover received 45.08 percent. An estimated 18 percent of Mexican Americans who voted in the 1972 election voted for Ramsay Muñiz. He received very high voting rates in rural cities and counties with lower incomes[xiv]. He received 51 percent of the vote in Brooks County and 46 percent in Jim Hogg County. In the 15 Mexican American counties, he received 30,020 votes compared to Grover's 31,641, and the winning Democrat, Dolph Briscoe. who polled 60,697 votes. While they lost the gubernatorial election, La Raza Unida Party won fifteen local positions in several borderland counties: La Salle, Dimmit, Zavala, and Hidalgo. Despite this success in the 1972 election, it could not be replicated at the state level again. However, several counties in South Texas continued to see candidates elected by La Raza Unida for years after the 1972 election, until 1978, when the party broke apart.\n\nWomen played a growing role in the party in Texas in the 1970s, holding party offices at various levels and running as political candidates, as well as doing campaign work in many localities.\n\nPolitical scientists have examined the 1972 gubernatorial race when La Raza Unida Party called for ethnic solidarity. There was deep alienation among Mexican Americans from Anglo-dominated politics. However, Mexican American support for LRUP was uneven across Texas and reflected differing levels of economic attainment and incorporation.\n\nIn 1976, eleven officials in Crystal City, Texas, were indicted on various counts. Angel Noe Gonzalez, the former Crystal City Independent School District superintendent who later worked in the United States Department of Education in Washington, D.C., upon his indictment retained the San Antonio lawyer and later mayor, Phil Hardberger. Gonzalez was charged with paying Adan Cantu for doing no work. Hardberger, however, documented to the court specific duties that Cantu had performed and disputed all the witnesses called against Cantu. The jury acquitted Gonzalez. Many newspapers reported on the indictments but not on the acquittal. John Luke Hill, the 1978 Democratic gubernatorial nominee, had sought to weaken RUP so that he would not lose general election votes to a third party candidate. Victory, however, went not to Hill but narrowly to his Republican rival, Bill Clements. Compean received only 15,000 votes, or 0.6 percent, just under Clements's 17,000-vote plurality over Hill.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17784481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17784481", "title": "Religious aspects of Nazism", "text": "Religious aspects of Nazism\n\nHistorians, political scientists and philosophers have studied Nazism with a specific focus on its religious and pseudo-religious aspects. It has been debated whether Nazism would constitute a political religion, and there has also been research on the millenarian, messianic, and occult or esoteric aspects of Nazism.\nAmong the writers who alluded before 1980 to the religious aspects of National Socialism are Aurel Kolnai, Raymond Aron, Albert Camus, Romano Guardini, Denis de Rougemont, Eric Voegelin, George Mosse, Klaus Vondung and Friedrich Heer. Voegelin's work on political religion was first published in German in 1938. Emilio Gentile and Roger Griffin, among others, have drawn on his concept.\nThe French author and philosopher Albert Camus is mentioned here, since he has made some remarks about Nazism as a religion and about Adolf Hitler in particular in \"L'Homme révolté\".\n\nOutside a purely academic discourse, public interest mainly concerns the relationship between Nazism and Occultism, and between Nazism and Christianity. The interest in the first relationship is obvious from the modern popular theory of Nazi occultism. The persistent idea that the Nazis were directed by occult agencies has been dismissed by historians as modern cryptohistory. The interest in the second relationship is obvious from the debate about Adolf Hitler's religious views—specifically, whether he was a Christian or not.\n\nThere are many works that speculate about National Socialism and occultism, the most prominent being \"The Morning of the Magicians\" (1960) and \"The Spear of Destiny\" (1972). From the perspective of academic history, however, most of these works are \"cryptohistory\". Notable exceptions are \"Der Mann, der Hitler die Ideen gab\" (The man who gave Hitler the ideas) by Wilfried Daim (1957), \"Urania's children\" by Ellic Howe (1967) and \"The Occult Establishment\" by James Webb (1976). Aside from these works, historians did not consider the question until the 1980s. Due to the popular literature on the topic, \"Nazi 'black magic' was regarded as a topic for sensational authors in pursuit of strong sales.\" In the 1980s, two Ph.D. theses were written about the topic. Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke published \"The Occult Roots of Nazism\" (1985) based on his thesis, and the German librarian and historian Ulrich Hunger's thesis on rune-lore in Nazi Germany (\"Die Runenkunde im Dritten Reich\") was published in the series \"Europäische Hochschulschriften\" (also 1985). \nGoodrick-Clarke's book \"The Occult Roots...\" is not only considered \"without exception\" to be the pioneering work on Ariosophy, but also the \"definitive book\" on the topic. The term 'Ariosophy' refers to an esoteric movement in Germany and Austria of the 1900s to 1930s. It clearly falls under Goodrick-Clarke's definition of occultism, as it obviously drew on the western esoteric tradition. Ideologically, it was remarkably similar to Nazism. According to Goodrick-Clarke, the Ariosophists wove occult ideas into the \"völkisch\" ideology that existed in Germany and Austria at the time. Ariosophy shared the racial awareness of \"völkisch\" ideology, but also drew upon a notion of root races, postulating locations such as Atlantis, Thule and Hyperborea as the original homeland of the Aryan race (and its \"purest\" branch, the Teutons or Germanic peoples).\nThe Ariosophic writings described a glorious ancient Germanic past, in which an elitist priesthood \"expounded occult-racist doctrines and ruled over a superior and racially pure society.\" The downfall of this imaginary golden age was explained as the result of the interbreeding between the master race and the \"untermenschen\" (lesser races).\nThe \"abstruse ideas and weird cults [of Ariosophy] anticipated the political doctrines and institutions of the Third Reich\" writes Goodrick-Clarke in the introduction to his book, motivating the phrase \"occult roots of Nazism\"; direct influences, however, are sparse. With the exception of Karl Maria Wiligut, Goodrick-Clarke has not found evidence that prominent Ariosophists directly influenced Nazism.\n\nGoodrick-Clarke considers the \"Nazi crusade [as] ... essentially religious\". His follow-up book \"Black Sun: Aryan Cults, Esoteric Nazism and the Politics of Identity\" examined 'ariosophic' ideas after 1945 and 'neo-\"völkisch\" movements'.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany had surrendered in World War II, the U.S. Office of Strategic Services published a report on the Nazi Master Plan of the Persecution of the Christian Churches.\nHistorians and theologians generally agree about the Nazi policy towards religion, that the objective was to remove explicitly Jewish content from the Bible (i.e., the Old Testament, the Gospel of Matthew, and the Pauline Epistles), transforming the Christian faith into a new religion, completely cleansed from any Jewish element and conciliate it with Nazism, Völkisch ideology and \"Führerprinzip\": a religion called \"Positive Christianity\".\n\nAlfred Rosenberg was influential in the development of Positive Christianity. In \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\", he wrote that:\n\nThe Nazi Party program of 1920 included a statement on religion as point 24. In this statement, the Nazi party demands freedom of religion (for all religious denominations that are not opposed to the customs and moral sentiments of the Germanic race); the paragraph proclaims the party's endorsement of Positive Christianity. Historians have described this statement as \"a tactical measure, 'cleverly' left undefined in order to accommodate a broad range of meanings,\" and an \"ambiguous phraseology.\" However, Richard Steigmann-Gall in \"The Holy Reich\" holds that, on closer examination, \"Point 24 readily provides us with three key ideas in which the Nazis claimed that their movement was Christian\": the movement's antisemitism, its social ethic under the phrase \"Gemeinnutz vor Eigennutz\" (roughly: \"public need before private greed\") and its attempt to bridge the confessional divide between Catholicism and Protestantism in Germany.\n\nThis is a topic of some controversy. Conway holds that \"The Holy Reich\" has broken new ground in the examination of the relation between Nazism and Christianity, despite his view that \"Nazism and Christianity were incompatible.\" Conway claims that Steigmann-Gall \"is undeniably right to point out how much Nazism owed to German Christian\" concepts and only considers his conclusion as \"overdrawn\".\n\nThe virulent antisemitism of Martin Luther has been identified as an inspiration for Nazism. However, according to the theologian Johannes Wallmann, Luther's views exercised no continual influence in Germany, and Hans J. Hillerbrand claimed that the focus on Luther's influence on Nazism's anti-Semitism ignored other factors in German history.\n\nThe Nazis were aided by theologians, such as Dr. Ernst Bergmann. Bergmann, in his work, \"Die 25 Thesen der Deutschreligion\" (Twenty-five Points of the German Religion), expounded the theory that the Old Testament and portions of the New Testament of the Bible were inaccurate. He proposed that Jesus was of Aryan origin, and that Adolf Hitler was the new messiah.\n\nWithin a large movement like Nazism, \"it may not be especially shocking to discover\" that individuals could embrace different ideological systems that would seem to be polar opposites. The religious beliefs of even the leading Nazis diverged strongly.\n\nThe difficulty for historians lies in the task of evaluating not only the public, but also the private statements of the Nazi politicians. Steigmann-Gall, who intended to do this in his study, points to such people as Erich Koch (who was not only Gauleiter of East Prussia and \"Reichskomissar\" for the Ukraine, but also the elected praeses of the East Prussian provincial synod of the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union) and Bernhard Rust as examples of Nazi politicians who also professed to be Christian in private.\n\nAdolf Hitler's religious beliefs have been a matter of debate; the wide consensus of historians consider him to have been irreligious, anti-Christian, anti-clerical and scientistic. In light of evidence such as his fierce criticism and vocal rejection of the tenets of Christianity, numerous private statements to confidants denouncing Christianity as a harmful superstition, and his strenuous efforts to reduce the influence and independence of Christianity in Germany after he came to power, Hitler's major academic biographers conclude that he was irreligious and an opponent of Christianity. Historian Laurence Rees found no evidence that \"Hitler, in his personal life, ever expressed belief in the basic tenets of the Christian church\". Ernst Hanfstaengl, a friend from his early days in politics, says Hitler \"was to all intents and purposes an atheist by the time I got to know him\". However, historians such as Richard Weikart and Alan Bullock doubt the assessment that he was a true atheist, suggesting that despite his dislike of Christianity he still clung to a form of spiritual belief. \n\nHitler was born to a practising Catholic mother, and was baptised in the Roman Catholic Church. From a young age, he expressed disbelief and hostility to Christianity. But in 1904, acquiescing to his mother's wish, he was confirmed at the Roman Catholic Cathedral in Linz, Austria, where the family lived. According to John Willard Toland, witnesses indicate that Hitler's confirmation sponsor had to \"drag the words out of him ... almost as though the whole confirmation was repugnant to him\". Rissmann notes that, according to several witnesses who lived with Hitler in a men's home in Vienna, Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments after leaving home. \nSeveral eyewitnesses who lived with Hitler while he was in his late teens and early-to-mid 20s in Vienna state that he never attended church after leaving home at 18. \n\nIn Hitler's early political statements, he attempted to express himself to the German public as a Christian. In his book \"Mein Kampf\" and in public speeches prior to and in the early years of his rule, he described himself as a Christian. Hitler and the Nazi party promoted \"Positive Christianity\", a movement which rejected most traditional Christian doctrines such as the divinity of Jesus, as well as Jewish elements such as the Old Testament. In one widely quoted remark, he described Jesus as an \"Aryan fighter\" who struggled against \"the power and pretensions of the corrupt Pharisees\" and Jewish materialism.\n\nWhile a small minority of historians accept these publicly stated views as genuine expressions of his spirituality, the vast majority believe that Hitler was skeptical of religion and anti-Christian, but recognized that he could only be elected and preserve his political power if he feigned a commitment to and belief in Christianity, which the overwhelming majority of Germans believed in. Privately, Hitler repeatedly deprecated Christianity, and told confidants that his reluctance to make public attacks on the Church was not a matter of principle, but a pragmatic political move. In his private diaries, Goebbels wrote in April 1941 that though Hitler was \"a fierce opponent\" of the Vatican and Christianity, \"he forbids me to leave the church. For tactical reasons.\" Hitler's remarks to confidants, as described in the Goebbels Diaries, the memoirs of Albert Speer, and transcripts of Hitler's private conversations recorded by Martin Bormann in \"Hitler's Table Talk\", are further evidence of his irreligious and anti-Christian beliefs; these sources record a number of private remarks in which Hitler ridicules Christian doctrine as absurd, contrary to scientific advancement, and socially destructive. \n\nOnce in office, Hitler and his regime sought to reduce the influence of Christianity on society. From the mid-1930s, his government was increasingly dominated by militant anti-church proponents like Goebbels, Bormann, Himmler, Rosenberg and Heydrich whom Hitler appointed to key posts. These anti-church radicals were generally permitted or encouraged to perpetrate the Nazi persecutions of the churches. The regime launched an effort toward coordination of German Protestants under a unified Protestant Reich Church (but this was resisted by the Confessing Church), and moved early to eliminate political Catholicism. Hitler agreed to the Reich concordat with the Vatican, but then routinely ignored it, and permitted persecutions of the Catholic Church. Smaller religious minorities faced harsher repression, with the Jews of Germany expelled for extermination on the grounds of Nazi racial ideology. Jehovah's Witnesses were ruthlessly persecuted for refusing both military service and allegiance to Hitler's movement. Hitler said he anticipated a coming collapse of Christianity in the wake of scientific advances, and that Nazism and religion could not co-exist long term. Although he was prepared to delay conflicts for political reasons, historians conclude that he ultimately intended the destruction of Christianity in Germany, or at least its distortion or subjugation to a Nazi outlook.\n\nAccording to Goodrick-Clarke, Rudolf Hess had been a member of the Thule Society before attaining prominence in the Nazi party. As Adolf Hitler's official deputy, Hess had also been attracted to and influenced by the biodynamic agriculture of Rudolf Steiner and Anthroposophy. In the wake of his flight to Scotland, Reinhard Heydrich, the head of the security police, banned lodge organizations and esoteric groups on 9 June 1941.\n\nThe Thule Society, which is remotely connected to the origins of the Nazi Party, was one of the ariosophic groups of the late 1910s. \"Thule Gesellschaft\" had initially been the name of the Munich branch of the Germanenorden Walvater of the Holy Grail, a lodge-based organisation which was built up by Rudolf von Sebottendorff in 1917. For this task he had received about a hundred addresses of potential members in Bavaria from Hermann Pohl, and from 1918 he was also supported by Walter Nauhaus. According to an account by Sebottendorff, the Bavarian province of the Germanenorden Walvater had 200 members in spring 1918, which had risen to 1500 in autumn 1918, of these 250 in Munich. Five rooms, capable of accommodating 300 people, were leased from the fashionable Hotel Vierjahreszeiten ('Four Seasons') in Munich and decorated with the Thule emblem showing a dagger superimposed on a swastika. Since the lodge's ceremonial activities were accompanied by overtly right-wing meetings, the name \"Thule Gesellschaft\" was adopted to arouse less attention from socialists and pro-Republicans.\n\nThe Thule Society took its name from Thule, an alleged lost land. Sebottendorff identified \"Ultima Thule\" as Iceland. In the Armanism of Guido von List, to which Sebottendorff made distinct references, it was believed that the Aryan race had originated from the apocryphal lost continent of Atlantis and taken refuge in Thule/Iceland after Atlantis had been deluged and sunk under the sea. Hyperborea was also mentioned by Guido von List, with direct references to the theosophic author William Scott-Elliot.\n\nIn \"The Myth of the Twentieth Century\", the most important Nazi book after \"Mein Kampf\", Alfred Rosenberg referred to Atlantis as a lost land or at least to an Aryan cultural center. Since Rosenberg had attended meetings of the Thule Society, he might have been familiar with the occult speculation about lost lands; however, according to Lutzhöft (1971), Rosenberg drew on the work of Herman Wirth. The attribution of the Urheimat of the Nordic race to a deluged land was very appealing at that time.\n\nIn the autumn of 1918 Sebottendorff attempted to extend the appeal of the Thule Society's nationalist ideology to people from a working-class background. He entrusted the Munich sports reporter Karl Harrer with the formation of a workers' club, called the \"Deutscher Arbeiterverein\" ('German workers' club') or \"Politischer Arbeiterzirkel\" ('Political workers' ring'). The most active member of this club was Anton Drexler. Drexler urged the foundation of a political party, and on 5 January 1919 the Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (DAP, German Workers' Party) was formally founded. When Adolf Hitler first encountered the DAP on 12 September 1919, Sebottendorff had already left the Thule Society (in June 1919). By the end of February 1920, Hitler had transformed the \"Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\" into the \"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\" (NSDAP or National Socialist German Workers’ Party). Apparently, meetings of the Thule Society continued until 1923. A certain Johannes Hering kept a diary of these meetings; it mentions the attendance of other Nazi leaders between 1920 and 1923, but not Hitler.\n\nThat the origins of the Nazi Party can be traced to the lodge organisation of the Thule Society is fact. However, there were only two points in which the NSDAP was a successor to the Thule Society. One is the use of the swastika. Friedrich Krohn, who was responsible for the colour scheme of the Nazi flag, had been a member of the Thule Society and also of the \"Germanenorden\" since 1913. Goodrick-Clarke concludes that the origins of the Nazi symbol can be traced back through the emblems of the Thule Society and the Germanenorden and ultimately to Guido von List, but it is not evident that the Thulean ideology filtered through the DAP into the NSDAP. Goodrick-Clarke implies that ariosophical ideas were of no consequence: \"the DAP line was predominantly one of extreme political and social nationalism, and not based on the Aryan-racist-occult pattern of the Germanenorden [and Thule Society]\". Godwin summarises the differences in outlook which separated the Thule Society from the direction taken by the Nazis:\n\n\"Hitler...had little time for the whole Thule business, once it had carried him where he needed to be...he could see the political worthlessness of paganism [i.e., what Goodrick-Clarke would describe as the racist-occult complex of Ariosophy] in Christian Germany. Neither did the Führer's plans for his Thousand-year Reich have any room whatever for the heady love of individual liberty with which the Thuleans romantically endowed their Nordic ancestors.\"\n\nThe other point in which the NSDAP continued the activities of the Thule Society is in the publication of the newspaper \"Völkischer Beobachter\". Originally, the \"Beobachter\" (\"Observer\") had been a minor weekly newspaper of the eastern suburbs of Munich, published since 1868. After the death of its last publisher in June 1918, the paper ceased publication, until Sebottendorff bought it one month later. He renamed it \"Münchener Beobachter und Sportsblatt\" (\"Munich Observer and Sports Paper\") and wrote \"trenchant anti-Semitic\" editorials for it. After Sebottendorff left Munich, the paper was converted into a limited liability company. By December 1920, all its shares were in the hands of Anton Drexler, who transferred the ownership of the paper to Hitler in November 1921.\n\nIts connection with Nazism has made the Thule Society a popular subject of modern cryptohistory. Among other things, it is hinted that Karl Haushofer and G. I. Gurdjieff were connected to the Society, but this theory is completely unsustainable.\n\nIn January 1933 Sebottendorff published \"Bevor Hitler kam: Urkundlich aus der Frühzeit der Nationalsozialistischen Bewegung\" (\"Before Hitler Came: Documents from the Early Days of the National Socialist Movement\"). Nazi authorities understandably disliked the book, which was banned in the following year. Sebottendorff was arrested but managed to flee to Turkey.\n\nCredited retrospectively with being the founder of \"Esoteric Hitlerism\", and certainly a figure of major importance for the officially sanctioned research and practice of mysticism by a Nazi elite, was Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler who, more than any other high official in the Third Reich (including Hitler) was fascinated by pan-Aryan (i.e., broader than Germanic) racialism. Himmler's capacity for rational planning was accompanied by an \"enthusiasm for the utopian, the romantic and even the occult.\"\n\nIt also seems that Himmler had an interest in astrology. He consulted the astrologer Wilhelm Wulff in the last weeks of the Second World War. (One detailed but difficult source for this is a book written by Wulff himself, \"Tierkreis und Hakenkreuz\", published in Germany in 1968. That Walter Schellenberg had discovered an astrologer called \"Wulf\" is mentioned in Hugh Trevor-Roper's \"The Last Days of Hitler\".)\n\nIn Bramwell's assessment: \"Too much can be made of the importance of bizarre cultism in Himmler's activities...but it did exist, and was one of the reasons behind the split between Himmler and Darré that took place in the late 1930s.\" Although Himmler did not have any contact with the Thule Society, he possessed more occult tendencies than any other Nazi leader. The German journalist and historian Heinz Höhne, an authority on the SS, explicitly describes Himmler's views about reincarnation as occultism.\n\nThe historic example which Himmler used in practice as the model for the SS was the Society of Jesus, since Himmler found in the Jesuits what he perceived to be the core element of any order, the doctrine of obedience and the cult of the organisation. The evidence for this largely rests on a statement from Walter Schellenberg in his memoirs (Cologne, 1956, p. 39), but Hitler is also said to have called Himmler \"my Ignatius of Loyola\". As an order, the SS needed a coherent doctrine that would set it apart. Himmler attempted to construct such an ideology, and to this purpose he deduced a \"pseudo-Germanic tradition\" from history. However, this attempt was not entirely successful. Höhne observes that \"Himmler's neo-pagan customs remained primarily a paper exercise\".\n\nIn a 1936 memorandum, Himmler set forth a list of approved holidays based on pagan and political precedents and meant to wean SS members from their reliance on Christian festivities. The Winter Solstice, or Yuletide, was the climax of the year. It brought SS folk together at candlelit banquet tables and around raging bonfires that harked back to German tribal rites.\n\nThe \"Allach Julleuchter\" (Yule light) was made as a presentation piece for SS officers to celebrate the winter solstice. It was later given to all SS members on the same occasion, December 21. Made of unglazed stoneware, the \"Julleuchter\" was decorated with early pagan Germanic symbols. Himmler said, “I would have every family of a married SS man to be in possession of a \"Julleuchter\". Even the wife will, when she has left the myths of the church find something else which her heart and mind can embrace.”\n\nOnly adherents of theories of Nazi occultism or the few former SS members who were, after the war, participants in the Landig Group in Vienna would claim that the cultic activities within the SS would amount to its own mystical religion. At the time of his death in 1986, Rudolf J. Mund was working on a book on the Germanic 'original race-cult religion', however, what was indoctrinated into the SS is not known in detail.\n\nIn 1935 Himmler, along with Darré, established the \"Ahnenerbe\". At first independent, it became the ancestral heritage branch of the SS. Headed by Dr. Hermann Wirth, it was dedicated primarily to archaeological research, but it was also involved in proving the superiority of the 'Aryan race' and in occult practices.\n\nA great deal of time and resources were spent on researching or creating a popularly accepted “historical”, “cultural” and “scientific” background so the ideas about a “superior” Aryan race could be publicly accepted. For example, an expedition to Tibet was organized to search for the origins of the \"Aryan race\". To this end, the expedition leader, Ernst Schäfer, had his anthropologist Bruno Beger make face masks and skull and nose measurements. Another expedition was sent to the Andes.\n\nBramwell, however, comments that Himmler \"is supposed to have sent a party of SS men to Tibet in order to search for Shangri-La, an expedition which is more likely to have had straightforward espionage as its purpose\".\n\nThe official newspaper of SS was \"Das Schwarze Korps\" (\"The Black Corps\"), published weekly from 1935 to 1945. In its first issue, the newspaper published an article on the origins of the Nordic race, hypothesizing a location near the North Pole similar to the theory of Hermann Wirth (but not mentioning Atlantis).\n\nAlso in 1935, the SS journal commissioned a Professor of Germanic History, Heinar Schilling, to prepare a series of articles on ancient Germanic life. As a result, a book containing these articles and entitled \"Germanisches Leben\" was published by Koehler & Amelung of Leipzig with the approval of the SS and Reich Government in 1937. Three chapters dealt with the religion of the German people over three periods: nature worship and the cult of the ancestors, the sun religion of the Late Bronze Age, and the cult of the gods.\n\nAccording to Heinar Schilling, the Germanic peoples of the Late Bronze Age had adopted a four-spoke wheel as symbolic of the sun \"and this symbol has been developed into the modern swastika of our own society [i.e., Nazi Germany] which represents the sun.\" Under the sign of the swastika \"the light bringers of the Nordic race overran the lands of the dark inferior races, and it was no coincidence that the most powerful expression of the Nordic world was found in the sign of the swastika\". Very little had been preserved of the ancient rites, Professor Schilling continued, but it was a striking fact \"that in many German Gaue today on \"Sonnenwendtage\" (solstice days) burning sun wheels are rolled from mountain tops down into the valleys below, and almost everywhere the \"Sonnenwendfeuer\" (solstice fires) burn on those days.\" He concluded by saying that \"The Sun is the All-Highest to the Children of the Earth\".\n\nHimmler has been claimed to have considered himself the spiritual successor or even reincarnation of Heinrich the Fowler, having established special SS rituals for the old king and having returned his bones to the crypt at Quedlinburg Cathedral. Himmler even had his personal quarters at Wewelsburg castle decorated in commemoration of Heinrich the Fowler. The way the SS redesigned the castle referred to certain characters in the Grail-mythos (see \"The \"SS-School House Wewelsburg\"\").\n\nHimmler had visited the Wewelsburg on 3 November 1933 and April 1934; the SS took official possession of it in August 1934. The occultist Karl Maria Wiligut (known in the SS under the pseudonym 'Weisthor') accompanied Himmler on his visits to the castle. Initially, the Wewelsburg was intended to be a museum and officer's college for ideological education within the SS, but it was subsequently placed under the direct control of the office of the Reichsführer SS (Himmler) in February 1935. The impetus for the change of the conception most likely came from Wiligut.\n\nThere are some accounts of SS officers celebrating solstices, apparently attempting to recreate a pagan ritual. In his book \"El Cuarto Lado del Triangulo\" (Sudamericana 1995), Professor Ronald Newton describes a number of occasions when a \"Sonnenwendfeier\" occurred in Argentina. When SS-Sturmbannführer Baron von Thermann (Edmund Freiherr von Thermann, ), the new head of the German Legation, arrived in December 1933, one of his first public engagements was to attend the NSDAP \"Sonnenwendfeier\" at the house of Vicente Lopez in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, \"a neo-pagan festival with torches in which the Argentine Nazis greeted the winter and summer solstices\". At another in December 1937, 500 young people, mostly Hitler Youth and Hitler Maidens, were taken to a natural amphitheatre dominating the sea at Comodoro Rivadavia in the south of the country. \"They lit great pillars of wood, and in the light of the flickering flames diverse NSDAP orators lectured the children on the origins of the ceremony and sang the praises of the (Nazis) Fallen for Liberty. In March 1939 the pupils at the German School in Rosario were the celebrants on an island in the Paraná River opposite the city: Hitler Youth flags, trumpets, a rustic altar straight from Germanic mythology, young leaders enthroned with solemnity to the accompaniment of choral singing...the Creole witnesses shook their heads in incredulity...\" In the Chaco in the north of Argentina the first great event promoted by the Nazis was the \"Sonnenwendfeier\" at Charata on 21 December 1935. Portentous discourses of fire alternated with choral renderings\". Such activities continued in Argentina after the war. Uki Goñi in his book \"The Real Odessa\" (Granta, 2003) describes how Jacques de Mahieu, a wanted SS war criminal, was \"a regular speaker at the pagan solar solstice celebrations held by fugitive Nazis in postwar Argentina.\"\n\nOf all the SS personnel, Karl Maria Wiligut could be best described as a Nazi occultist. The (first?) biography of him, written by Rudolf J. Mund, was titled: \"Himmler's Rasputin\" (German: \"Der Rasputin Himmlers\", not translated into English). After his retirement from the Austrian military, Wiligut had been active in the 'ariosophic' milieu. Ariosophy was only one of the threads of Esotericism in Germany and Austria during this time. When he was involuntarily committed to the Salzburg mental asylum between November 1924 and early 1927, he received support from several other occultists. Wiligut was clearly sympathetic to the Nazi Revolution of January 1933. When he was introduced to Himmler by an old friend who had become an SS officer, he got the opportunity to join the SS under the pseudonym 'Weisthor'. He was appointed head of the Department for Pre- and Early history within the Race and Settlement Main Office (\"Rasse- and Siedlungshauptamt\", RuSHA) of the SS. His bureau could (much more than the \"Ahnenerbe\") be described as the occult department of the SS: Wiligut's main duty appears \"to have consisted in committing examples of his ancestral memory to paper.\" Wiligut's work for the SS also included the design of the \"Totenkopfring\" (death's head ring) that was worn by SS members. He is even supposed to have designed a chair for Himmler; at least, this chair and its covers are offered for sale on the Internet.\n\nOtto Rahn had written a book \"Kreuzzug gegen den Gral\" \"Crusade against the Grail\" in 1933. In May 1935 he joined the Ahnenerbe; in March 1936 he formally joined the SS. \"In September 1935 Rahn wrote excitedly to Weisthor [Karl Maria Wiligut] about the places he was visiting in his hunt for grail traditions in Germany, asking complete confidence in the matter with the exception of Himmler.\" In 1936 Rahn undertook a journey for the SS to Iceland, and in 1937 he published his travel journal of his quest for the Gnostic-Cathar tradition across Europe in a book titled \"Luzifers Hofgesinde\" \"Lucifer's Servants\". From this book he gave at least one reading, before an \"extraordinarily large\" audience. An article about this lecture was published in the \"Westfälische Landeszeitung\" \"Westphalia County Paper\", which was an official Nazi newspaper.\n\nRahn's connection of the Cathars with the Holy Grail ultimately leads to Montségur in France, which had been the last remaining fortress of the Cathars in France during the Middle Ages. According to eyewitnesses, Nazi archaeologists and military officers were present at that castle.\n\nGregor Schwartz-Bostunitsch was a radical author with German-Ukrainian ancestry. An active agitator against the Bolshevik Revolution, he fled his native Russia in 1920 and travelled widely in eastern Europe, making contact with Bulgarian Theosophists and probably with G.I. Gurdjieff. As a mystical anti-communist, he developed an unshakeable belief in the Jewish-Masonic world conspiracy portrayed in the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". In 1922 he published his first book, \"Freemasonry and the Russian Revolution\", and emigrated to Germany in the same year. He became an enthusiastic convert to Anthroposophy in 1923, but by 1929 he had repudiated it as yet another agent of the conspiracy. Meanwhile, he had begun to give lectures for the Ariosophical Society and was a contributor to Georg Lomer's originally Theosophical (and later, neopagan) periodical entitled \"Asgard: A Fighting Sheet for the Gods of the Homeland\". He also worked for Alfred Rosenberg's news agency during the 1920s before joining the SS. He lectured widely on conspiracy theories and was appointed an honorary SS professor in 1942, but was barred from lecturing in uniform because of his unorthodox views. In 1944 he was promoted to SS-Standartenführer on Himmler's recommendation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48234016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48234016", "title": "Salynn McCollum", "text": "Salynn McCollum\n\nMary Salynn (Selyn) McCollum was the only white female Freedom Rider during the leg from Nashville, Tennessee to Birmingham, Alabama on May 17, 1961.\n\nBorn to Hilda and Walter McCollum in Tulsa, Oklahoma on April 6, 1940, her family moved around during her childhood. She eventually ended up in Amherst, New York where she attended junior high and high school. She has one sister named Rhonda. Though admitted to Syracuse University, McCollum's family wanted her to return to the South as both her parents were born and raised in Tennessee.\n\nAfter graduation, she matriculated in 1958 at George Peabody College for Teachers in Nashville, Tennessee. Her course of study focused on instruction for intellectually and developmentally disabled students. Although she was an undergraduate, she took some graduate level courses. During one such course, she met a Fisk University professor, Lester Carr, who shared her interest in developmentally challenged children. Professor Carr invited McCollum to visit Fisk University to see a classroom of autistic children. He also invited her to come hear Kelly Miller Smith speak at First Baptist, Capitol Hill.\n\nParticipation in Civil Rights Movement\n\nMcCollum attended training sessions led by Reverend James Lawson on non-violent protesting and also nightly meetings about desegregating downtown Nashville. The workshops were not tactical but instead focused on how to handle hostile citizens who opposed the student demonstrations. After the workshops and meetings, the college students would socialize and eat dinner at a restaurant on Jefferson Street. In February 1961, she attended a Nashville Student Movement meeting as a guest of Central Committee Member, Prof. Carr.\n\nAs a result of her participation in the Freedom Rides, and the strife it caused within the college administration her professor, Leonard J. Lucito, arranged for her to attend Southern Illinois University, where she was able to complete her studies. While at SIU, she helped organize lunch counter demonstrations with a few local students and even led a non-violent workshop using what she had learned from Lawson and her Nashville sit in experience. At one of these sit-ins with ten other protesters, she was assaulted with a knife and received a four-five inch cut on the back of her thigh. She was refused hospital care and ended up being driven to East St. Louis to receive care. This event garnered much attention in local and national newspapers. Soon John Lewis joined her in Cairo, Illinois. Upon completion of her course work she returned to Nashville and used scholarship money she received from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr to continue participating in the Movement while student teaching kindergarten on the Peabody's campus.\n\nMcCollum visited Highlander Folk School during her time in Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee. In the beginning of 1962, McCollum began working full-time for SNCC in Atlanta. Her duties included handling voter registration in Georgia, fundraising, and public speaking at churches throughout the South. She did not attend the March on Washington because by that time she had developed a dislike of being in large unorganized crowds probably due to her experiences in Cairo, Illinois.\n\nThere were ten Freedom Riders—two whites (Jim Zwerg and Salynn McCollum) and eight African Americans (John Lewis, William Barbee, Paul Brooks, Charles Butler, Allen Carson, Bill Harbour, Catherine Burks, and Lucretia Collins). McCollum was sent as an observer to report back to Diane Nash and was under orders not to be arrested with the other Riders. Leo Lillard drove her to Pulaski, Tennessee where she joined the other Freedom Riders. While some sources say McCollum missed the Nashville bus, she remembers this as an intentional decision to board someplace else to keep herself separate from the group and to try to provide a little protection.\n\nThe Freedom Riders did not converse during the rides as to maintain as much anonymity as possible. It was evident though they had been discovered by the time they reached the Alabama state line as armed gunmen were posted along the highway to Birmingham. Upon arrival at the Birmingham bus depot, she attempted to disembark to report back to Nash what was happening but was prevented from leaving the bus. All the passengers were detained for a period of time. Then the regular passengers were let off the bus, but not the Freedom Riders. When the Freedom Riders were finally let off the bus, McCollum joined Catherine Burks and Lucretia Collins thereby identifying herself as a Freedom Rider. By then, she had made the phone call to Diane Nash to inform her of what was happening in Birmingham. Eventually, they arrested all ten of them and took them to jail.\n\nMcCollum was separated from the other female Freedom Riders due to her race and held with the white women prisoners. When the white prisoners discovered she was a Freedom Rider, they beat her up and stole her candy and cigarettes. She stayed in jail about three or four days and was eventually released to her father's custody. Her parents were very disappointed and disapproved of her participation in the movement. Then, she was driven to Memphis in a police car by a patrolman and Birmingham Chief of Police Bull Conner. Once in Memphis, McCollum and her father flew back to Nashville.\n\nAfter her tenure with SNCC, McCollum took a job as a Day Care Center Director in Harlem for about twenty years. Then, she moved to Santa Fe, New Mexico where she trained dogs, rode horses, and traveled. In 2000, she moved back to Tennessee where she lived with her sister, Rhonda McCollum and family, in Nunnelly, Tennessee. She died on May 1, 2014.\n\nResources\n\nThe papers of Salynn McCollum are located at the Special Collections Library at Vanderbilt University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "182117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182117", "title": "Social conflict theory", "text": "Social conflict theory\n\nSocial conflict theory is a Marxist-based social theory which argues that individuals and groups (social classes) within society interact on the basis of conflict rather than consensus. Through various forms of conflict, groups will tend to attain differing amounts of material and non-material resources (e.g. the wealthy vs. the poor). More powerful groups will tend to use their power in order to retain power and exploit groups with less power.\n\nConflict theorists view conflict as an engine of change, since conflict produces contradictions which are sometimes resolved, creating new conflicts and contradictions in an ongoing dialectic. In the classic example of historical materialism, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels argued that all of human history is the result of conflict between classes, which evolved over time in accordance with changes in society's means of meeting its material needs, i.e. changes in society's mode of production.\n\nConsider the relationship between the owner of a housing complex and a tenant in that same housing complex. A consensus theorist might suggest that the relationship between the owner and the tenant is founded on mutual benefit. In contrast, a conflict theorist might argue the relationship is based on a conflict in which the owner and tenant are struggling against each other. Their relationship is defined by the balance in their abilities to extract resources from each other, e.g. rent payments or a place to live. The bounds of the relationship are set where each is extracting the maximum possible amount of resources out of the other.\n\nConflict can take many forms and involve struggle over many different types of resources, including status. However, formal conflict theory had its foundations in the analysis of class conflict, and the example of the owner and the tenant can be understood in terms of class conflict. In class conflict, owners are likely to have relative advantages over non-owners. For example, the legal system underlying the relationship between the owner and tenant can be biased in favor of the owner. Suppose the owner wishes to keep the tenant's security deposit after that tenant has moved out of the owner's residence. In legal systems based on English common law, the owner is only required to notify the tenant that the security deposit is being withheld. To regain the security deposit, the tenant must file a lawsuit. The tenant bears the burden of proof and is therefore required to prove that the residence was adequately cleaned before move-out. This can be a very difficult or even impossible task.\n\nTo summarize the example, conflict theorists view the relationship between the owner and tenant as being built primarily on conflict rather than harmony. Even though the owner-tenant relationship may often appear harmonious, any visible harmony is only a product of the law and other elements of the superstructure which constrain the relationship and which are themselves a product of an even deeper conflict, class conflict. A conflict theorist would say that conflict theory holds more explanatory power than consensus theory in this situation since consensus theory cannot explain lawsuits between owners and tenants nor the legal foundations of the asymmetrical power relationship between the two.\n\nFrom a social conflict theorist/marxism point of view social class and inequality emerges because the social structure is based on conflict and contradictions. Contradictions in interests and conflict over scarce resources between groups is the foundation of social society, according to the social conflict theory (Engels & Marx, 1848). The higher class will try to maintain their privileges, power, status and social position - and therefore try to influence politics, education, and other institutions to protect and limit access to their forms of capital and resources. Whereas the lower class - in contradiction to the higher class - has very different interests. They do not have specific forms of capital that they need to protect. All they are interested in is in gaining access to the resources and capital of the higher class. For example, education: the lower class will do everything to gain access to the higher class resources based on democratizing and liberalizing education systems because these forms of capital are thought to be of value for future success. The various institutions of society such as the legal and political system are instruments of ruling class domination and serve to further its interests. Marx believed that western society developed through four main epochs—primitive communism, ancient society, feudal society and capitalist society. Primitive communism is represented by the societies of pre-history and provides the only example of the classless society. From then all societies are divided into two major classes—master and slaves in ancient society, lords and serfs in feudal society and capitalist and wage laborers in capitalist society.\n\nWeber sees class in economic terms. He argues that classes develop in market economies in which individuals compete for economic gain. He defines a class as a group of individuals who share a similar position in market economy and by virtue of that fact receive similar economic rewards. Thus a person's class situation is basically his market situation. Those who share a similar class situation also share similar life chances. Their economic position will directly affect their chances of obtaining the things defined as desirable in their society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13348062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13348062", "title": "Sodium methylparaben", "text": "Sodium methylparaben\n\nSodium methylparaben (sodium methyl \"para\"-hydroxybenzoate) is a compound with formula Na(CH(CHCOO)O). It is the sodium salt of methylparaben.\n\nIt is a food additive with the E number E219 which is used as a preservative.\n"}
{"id": "5069630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5069630", "title": "Split-ticket voting", "text": "Split-ticket voting\n\nSplit-ticket voting refers to when a voter in an election votes for candidates from different political parties when multiple offices are being decided by a single election, as opposed to straight-ticket voting, where a voter chooses candidates from the same political party for every office up for election.\n\nIn Australia, federal elections in recent times have usually involved a House of Representatives election and a half-Senate election occurring on the same day. Most states, with the exception of Queensland and Tasmania, also hold elections for both houses of parliament simultaneously. An example of split-ticket voting in Australia is a voter who gives their first preference to the Liberal Party on the House of Representatives ballot paper and to the Family First party in the Senate.\n\nIn the 2013 election, the Senate vote for both the Liberal and Labor parties was considerably lower than their lower house vote, demonstrating that a large number of people voted for a major party in the House of Representatives and a minor party or micro-party in the Senate. There are many reasons why a voter may do this, including the fact that many parties only stand candidates for the Senate (leaving their supporters unable to vote for them on their lower house ballot), the much lower quota required for election to the Senate compared to the House of Representatives (14.3% versus 50%), and a desire to check the power of the government by preventing it from controlling the Senate.\n\nFrom 1978 to 2008, when the Australian Democrats held representation in the Senate, the Democrats benefited greatly from split-ticket voting, as their Senate vote was always much higher than their House of Representatives vote. The party built its campaigns around \"keeping the bastards honest\", a reference to holding the balance of power in the Senate so as to prevent the chamber from becoming either a rubber stamp for the government or a tool of obstruction for the opposition.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the Additional Member System is used for the devolved assemblies of Scotland and Wales, as well as the London Assembly and is considered to increase the likelihood to split-ticket. As each voter casts two votes: one vote for a candidate standing in their constituency (with or without an affiliated party), and one vote for a party list standing in a wider region. In the constituency vote a single representative is elected using the traditional First-Past-The-Post system. The regional vote is used to elect multiple representatives from party lists to stand in regional seats, taking into account how many seats were gained by that party in the constituency vote, using a system of proportional representation: the number of seats a party receives will roughly reflect its percentage of the vote. Between the 1997 and 2003 elections in London, Scotland, and Wales between 17 and 28 percent of voters split their tickets.\n\nIn the United States, multiple elections for many different offices are often held on the same day. This may be true of primary elections and may also include the placing of candidates for federal, state, and local offices on the same ballot. One of many possible examples of split-ticket voting in the United States is a voter who seeks to elect the Democratic Party's candidate for the Senate, the Republican Party's candidate for House of Representatives, the Green Party's candidate for County Supervisor, and the Libertarian Party's candidate for Coroner.\n\nOne example is the 2004 elections in Montana, where Democratic gubernatorial candidate Brian Schweitzer was elected governor 50.4% to 46.0%, while incumbent Republican President George W. Bush defeated Democrat John Kerry 59% to 39%. This suggests that a large number of the electorate voted for a split-ticket, selecting a Republican presidential candidate and a Democratic Party gubernatorial candidate. Another example is the West Virginia gubernatorial election, 2016, in which Democrat (now Republican) Jim Justice won by 8 points while Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump won in the state with 68% of the vote.\n\nHowever, Democratic candidates seeking governorships in red states often hold somewhat more conservative views compared to those of a typical registered Democrat, whereas Republicans running for governor in blue states often have more liberal views compared to those of an average Republican supporter elsewhere. For example, Massachusetts, despite being one of the most solidly Democratic states in national elections, elected Republican governors in 1990, 1994, 1998, 2002, 2014, and 2018.\n\nAlthough less common, split-ticket voting can potentially be used as a form of tactical voting. One possible example of this is a voter who prefers candidate A but does not believe that candidate A can win the election, so the voter votes for candidate B (who may be of a different political party from candidate A) because candidate B is better than other more competitive candidates C, D, etc.\n\nSplit-ticket voting may also occur in elections where multiple voting systems are employed. One possible example of this is a voter who selects a candidate from a minority party for an office decided by a proportional representation election system and selects a candidate from a larger party for an office decided by a first past the post system.\n\nSplit-ticket voting in party list voting systems is called panachage; not all implementations allow it.\n\nSplit ticket voting is different from split ticket preferencing, often referred to as a \"split ticket\". In the latter, the candidate for political office (or the party they are standing for) will issue 'How to vote' cards or pamphlets which provide two different suggested alternatives on how voters who wish to vote for them should direct their second, third and subsequent preferences.\n"}
{"id": "538387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538387", "title": "Split vote", "text": "Split vote\n\nA split vote is normally used synonymously with \"deadlocked\", \"hung\", or \"evenly split\" vote.\n\nIt is this case it indicates a vote in which no decision can be made, as neither side has the majority.\nThe term can be used to indicate dissent by as little as a single vote, if a unanimous vote is required.\nIf a casting vote is available, this may be used to break the deadlock. In other cases it may result in situations such as hung juries or hung parliaments.\n\nThe term may also refer to vote splitting, which occurs in an election when the existence of two or more similar candidates reduces the votes received by each of them, reducing the chances of any one of them winning against another, significantly different, candidate. This can lead to a victory for a minority candidate.\n\nIn the European Parliament split voting may be requested by a political group or at least 40 Members, when \"the text to be put to the vote contains two or more provisions or references to two or more points[...]\". The members of parliament will consequently vote on each provision separately.\n"}
{"id": "34795407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34795407", "title": "Unlawful Organizations Act, 1960", "text": "Unlawful Organizations Act, 1960\n\nThe Unlawful Organizations Act No 34 of 1960 (commenced 7 April 1960) allowed the apartheid government of South Africa to declare unlawful any organizations deemed to threaten public order or the safety of the public. This legislation was enacted within a few weeks of 1960's Sharpeville Massacre. The African National Congress (ANC) and Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) were immediately declared unlawful, and the Indemnity Act that followed legislatively indemnified supporters of the apartheid regime from any wrongdoing connected to the massacre.\n\nThe Unlawful Organizations Act was repealed by section 73 of the Internal Security Act, 1982. However, the Internal Security Act contained similar provisions allowing the government to ban organizations. The bans on the ANC, the PAC and other anti-apartheid groups were lifted in 1990 at the start of the negotiations to end apartheid. The Internal Security Act's provisions for banning organizations were finally repealed by the Security Matters Rationalisation Act in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "25400488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25400488", "title": "Vice-President of Malawi", "text": "Vice-President of Malawi\n\nVice-President of Malawi () is the second highest political position in Malawi.\nThe Vice-President is elected in the same ticket with the President. The position was first established in November 1994 to assist the President. However, the office has been mainly ceremonial. \n\nam here to inform all Malawians , we as citizens of Malawi, we must focus on development not politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "33091605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33091605", "title": "World military spending", "text": "World military spending\n\nMilitary expenditure is the expenditure by a country’s government on their military forces, i.e. maintenance and operations, military research and development, Military aid, procurement, salaries, pensions, etc. World military spending refers to the aggregate global military spending by different countries - analysis of this data can help understand the status of a particular country as a military power in the world arena.\n\nThis military expenditure of various countries is given by the SIPRI (Stockholm International Peace Research Institute). The data presented by the SIPRI is based on the data provided by the national governments which include the national budget documents, defence white papers and public finance statistics published by ministries of finance and defence, central banks and national statistical offices.SIPRI is currently located in Sweden and provides a very intellectual platform for different researchers from various countries to come, work and think together. The SIPRI has its associations with many international and regional institutes like UN Department for Disarmament Affairs (DDA), the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (UNIDIR), Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the European Union (EU) and the African Union (AU).\n\nAs a website, global issues states “Global military expenditure stands at over $1.6 trillion in annual expenditure at current prices for 2010 (or $1.56 trillion dollars at constant 2009 prices), and has been rising in recent years.” \nThis shows that the world military expenditure in 2010 is estimated to be over about $1.6 trillion pointing towards a 1.3% rise since 2009 and 50% rise since 2001. This is 2.6% of the world’s gross domestic product (GDP). \nAmongst all the countries of the world the U.S.A accounts for highest military spending across the globe. Constituting for 43% of the world total followed by China, UK, France and Russia.\nas the website newser.com states, \"In many cases, the falls or slower increases represent a delayed reaction to the global financial and economic crisis that broke in 2008,\" wrote the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute SIPRI in a statement.\nMilitary spending includes expenses for military and civil personnel, the retirement pensions for army personnel as well as social services, all the military operations and programmes and maintenance of the same, military aid and lastly military research and development. \nAs we have seen earlier the United States of America is incurring the highest military expenditure in the world. It is considered a superpower and a determinant of the worlds military spending. \nTheir spending in the recent times has increased due to terror and Afghanistan and Iraq invasions. Even though there have been financial crises the military expenses have shown no signs of change. The expenditure on a country's armed forces remains the same.\n\n"}
{"id": "44062310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44062310", "title": "Yustinus Murib", "text": "Yustinus Murib\n\nYustinus Murib (died November 5, 2003) was a West Papuan rebel who was the leader of the Free Papua movement, a separatist group that since the 1960s has been fighting for independence from Indonesia. Shortly before being killed Murib sent letters to a few different world leaders and the UN, calling for an independent nation to be a mediator between Megawati Sukarnoputri and the West Papua Movement. He and other leaders of the separatist movement had called for peace talks with Jakarta, but on November 6, 2003 Kopassus troops killed him and 9 of his men. The Indonesian Army displayed his corpse as a trophy.\n"}
