{"id": "53477688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53477688", "title": "130 Cedar Street", "text": "130 Cedar Street\n\n130 Cedar Street, formerly known as the Green Exchange Building is a mid-rise building in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City. It is located between Cedar Street and Albany Street running along Washington Street, sharing a block with 90 West Street. It was built in 1931 and was designed by Renwick, Aspinwall & Guard. It was completed in 1931.\n\nWhen the South Tower of the World Trade Center collapsed on September 11, 2001, 130 Cedar Street was completely ravaged. Hundreds of tons of fiery debris rained down onto the building. The top of the buildings northeast corner completely collapsed under the debris. A column section from WTC 2 penetrated the 10th floor roof slab. The projectile impacts also lit fires, which occurred primarily above the 9th floor. Fire damage was evident on the 11th and 12th floors in the northwest corner. The Amish Market located on the ground floor was completely destroyed and burned, later relocating further uptown. Several concrete columns were cracked, possibly from the impact. Several bays at the northeast corner were severely damaged from debris impact. After the attacks, the building was uninhabitable and lost all of its tenants.\n\nLike many buildings in the area, 130 Cedar Street had to be thoroughly decontaminated after the damage it sustained. In 2004, it was announced that the office building would be transformed into a hotel, despite rumors that the building would be demolished. \n\nAfter many years of revitalization, the building was finally reopened as a Club Quarters hotel. During the restoration process, seven new floors were added, making the building 19 stories tall.\n"}
{"id": "4488435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488435", "title": "Alberto Gollán", "text": "Alberto Gollán\n\nAlberto Gollán (born February 24, 1918 – November 24, 2014 ) was an Argentine media businessman from Rosario, province of Santa Fe. He was the head of Televisión Litoral S.A., the largest media conglomerate in Argentina outside Buenos Aires, which includes the local TV channel Canal 3, and the radio stations LT2 (Radio Dos), FM Vida, and Radio Cataratas. Gollán started Televisión Litoral S.A. in 1965.\n\nGollán was the mayor of Rosario for four months, between 18 May and 23 September 1971, during the military dictatorship presided by Alejandro Agustín Lanusse. \n\nAfter the coup d'état of 1976 that deposed Isabel Martínez de Perón and started the Proceso de Reorganización Nacional, he continued to support the military government. In a reception held on 28 December 1976 in the Officers' Mess, Gollán spoke to Commander of the 2nd Army Corps Leopoldo Galtieri in the name of the press: \"We are proud to be able to stand by you and the force you represent in the task you are undertaking. We the journalists will always support this labor.\"\n\nThrough Televisión Litoral, Gollán started in 1977 the Ibero-American Advertising Festival (\"Festival Iberoamericano de Publicidad\", or FIAP), which has continued to be celebrated annually, with the participation of producers from Spain, Portugal and several Latin American countries.\n\nOn 15 March 2005 Gollán was awarded an honorary membership of the Order of the British Empire, which was delivered by British Ambassador John Hughes, \"for his service, because he is a friend of the British Embassy and visitors\". Gollán is the First Vice-Deacon of the Consular Corps of Rosario and the Honorary Consul of the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "7280127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7280127", "title": "Alonso Ancira", "text": "Alonso Ancira\n\nAlonso Ancira Elizondo (born 1956 in Mexico City) is a Mexican businessman who is the controlling shareholder and Chairman of the Board of Altos Hornos de Mexico (\"AHMSA”). Ancira purchased AHMSA from the Mexican Government in 1991, when the government privatized the steel industry. In 2006 the magazine \"Vanguardia\" named Ancira as one of Mexico's \"power elite,\" with a fortune of over $700 million. On March 30, 2006, Ancira was elected as President of the Iron and Steel Mexican Chamber (CANACERO) for the years 2006-2007. Ancira is the Chairman of the Board of MATT.org (Mexicans and Americans Thinking Together) a non for profit organization based in San Antonio, TX.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31619836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31619836", "title": "Applied unified communications", "text": "Applied unified communications\n\nApplied Unified Communications is the application of unified communications (SMS, e-mail, VoIP, Letters, IVR) to solve business problems by helping enterprises to increase profitability and operational efficiencies using targeted and personalised communications with their customers.\n"}
{"id": "17065775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17065775", "title": "Asset protection", "text": "Asset protection\n\nAsset protection (sometimes also referred to as \"debtor-creditor law\") is a set of legal techniques and a body of statutory and common law dealing with protecting assets of individuals and business entities from civil money judgments. The goal of asset protection planning is to insulate assets from claims of creditors without perjury or tax evasion.\n\nAsset protection consists of methods available to protect assets from liabilities arising elsewhere. It should not be confused with \"limiting liability\", which concerns the ability to stop or constrain liability to the asset or activity from which it arises. Assets that are shielded from creditors by law are few (common examples include some home equity, certain retirement plans and interests in LLCs and limited partnerships [and even these are not always unreachable]). Assets that are almost always unreachable are those to which one does not hold legal title. In many cases it is possible to vest legal title to personal assets in a trust, an agent or a nominee, while retaining all the control of the assets. The goal of asset protection is similar to bankruptcy, and the two practice areas go hand-in-hand. When a debtor has none to few assets, the bankruptcy route is preferable. When the debtor has significant assets, asset protection may be the solution.\n\nThe four threshold factors that are either expressly or implicitly analyzed in each asset protection case are:\n\n\n\n\n\nWhilst the aforementioned use of Trusts will be of benefit in a number of cases the question of ownership can still arise, as although legal ownership may have been transferred to the trustees, beneficial ownership may still in many cases lie with the settler of the Trust. A Private Placement Life Insurance contract (PPLI), can provide a greater degree of protection and privacy than most Trusts, and can also be integrated with an existing trust if necessary. Whilst Trusts may not be recognised in many Jurisdictions, Life insurance also has the advantage of being Multi jurisdictional.\n\nUnited States federal bankruptcy laws and ERISA laws exempt certain assets from creditors, including certain retirement plans. All fifty states also have laws that exempt certain assets from creditors. These vary from state to state, but they often include exemptions for a certain amount of equity in a personal residence, individual retirement accounts, clothing, or other personal property.\n\nAll fifty U.S. states also have laws that protect the owners of a corporation, limited partnership, or limited liability company from the liabilities of the entity. Many states limit the remedies of a creditor of a limited partner or a member in an LLC, thereby providing some protection for the assets of the entity from the creditors of a member.\n\nAll fifty U.S. states provide some protection for the assets of a trust against the creditors of the beneficiaries. Some states allow asset protection for a self-settled trust (a trust in which the settlor or creator of the trust is included as a potential discretionary beneficiary) and some states do not.\n\nCreditors have several tools to overcome the laws that provide asset protection. First, there are federal and state fraudulent transfer laws. Today there are two bodies of fraudulent transfer law: the Bankruptcy Code and state fraudulent transfer statutes. Most states have adopted Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act which defines what constitutes a fraudulent transfer. The UFTA and the Bankruptcy Code both provide that a transfer made by a debtor is fraudulent as to a creditor if the debtor made the transfer with the \"actual intention to hinder, delay or defraud\" any creditor of the debtor. While UFTA applies clearly to present creditors, the distinction between a future creditor and a future potential creditor is not as clear. The UFTA is commonly held to apply only to future creditors and not to future potential creditors (those whose claim arises after the transfer, but there was no foreseeable connection between the creditor and the debtor at the time of the transfer).\n\nThere are also laws which allow a creditor to pierce the corporate veil of an entity and go after the owners for the debts of the entity. It may also be possible for a creditor of a member to reach the assets of an entity through a constructive trust claim, or a claim for a reverse piercing of a corporate veil.\n\nThe anti-alienation provision of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) exempts from claims of creditors the assets of pension, profit-sharing, or 401(k) plans. Two exceptions are carved out for qualified domestic relations orders and claims under the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990. Because the protection is set forth in a federal statute, it will trump any state fraudulent transfer law. Protection of ERISA is afforded to employees only and does not cover employers. The owner of a business is treated as an employer, even though he may also be the employee of the same business, as in a closely held corporation. Accordingly, ERISA protection does not apply to sole proprietors, to one owner business, whether incorporated or unincorporated, and to partnerships, unless the plan covers employees other than the owners, partners and their spouses.\n\nAsset protection planning requires a working knowledge of federal and state exemption laws, federal and state bankruptcy laws, federal and state tax laws, the comparative laws of many jurisdictions (onshore and offshore), choice of law principles, in addition to the laws of trusts, estates, corporations and business entities. The process of asset protection planning involves assessing the facts, circumstances, and objectives of an individual, evaluating the pros and cons of the various options, designing a structure that is most likely to accomplish all the objectives of the individual (including asset protection objectives), preparing legal documents to carry out the plan, and ensuring that the various legal entities are operated properly in accordance with the laws and the objectives of the individual. This process involves providing legal advice and legal work and most states prohibit the practice of law without a license.\n\nAsset protection planning began to develop as a stand-alone area of the law in the late 1970s. It began coming into prominence in the late 1980s, with the advent and the marketing of offshore asset protection trusts. Colorado attorney Barry Engel is credited with the introduction of that concept and the development of asset protection trust law statutes in the Cook Islands. The most distinctive feature of the offshore trust is the fact that the settlor or creator of the trust may be included among the potential beneficiaries of the trust without causing the assets of the trust to be subject to the creditors of the settlor. This is often referred to as a \"self-settled trust.\"\n\nOver the years, this new field of law enjoyed a marginal reputation, but started going mainstream in the mid-1990s. A 2003 article in the Wall Street Journal claimed that 60% of America's millionaires have considered engaging in asset protection planning.\n\nChoice of law rules in the United States make it possible for a person from any state to create a trust, corporation, limited partnership or limited liability company that is governed by the laws of any other state or jurisdiction. Because of this ability to \"forum shop,\" various states and other jurisdictions have modified their laws to allow greater asset protection in order to make them competitive with other jurisdictions.\n\nIn most states, the assets of a self-settled trust are not protected from the creditors of the settlor. In 1997, the State of Alaska passed a statute which provided that the assets of an Alaska self-settled trust are not subject to the creditors of the settlor. Since 1997, the following states have adopted legislation allowing for a self-settled asset protection trust: Nevada, Delaware, South Dakota, Wyoming, Tennessee, Utah, Oklahoma, Colorado, Missouri, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. This legislation created a favorable offshore asset protection trust jurisdiction also for non-US settlors.\n\nThere is considerable debate about the comparative effectiveness of the asset protection provided by the laws of each jurisdiction, onshore and offshore. Similarly, the asset protection features provided by corporations, limited partnerships and limited liability companies vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Once again, Alaska's limited liability company statute provides innovative advantages over other states. Case law from North Carolina demonstrates the asset protection advantages of a transfer to a limited liability company (see Herring v. Keasler, 150 NC App 598 (01-1000) 06/04/2002).\n\nJust as the Cook Islands have developed a reputation for the best offshore jurisdiction for an asset protection trust, Nevis stands out in the competition for the best jurisdiction to file a limited liability company. The Nevis limited liability company statute is based on the Delaware limited liability statute, but they have a few added advantages. One advantage of a Nevis LLC is that the members and managers are not disclosed to the public.\n\nThere is some debate over the ethics of asset protection planning. On one hand, every attorney that creates a trust, corporation, limited partnership, or limited liability company is engaging in some form of asset protection planning. On the other hand, most would agree that it is ethically inappropriate to assist a person to commit fraud or evade income taxes. The timing and the purposes of the plan seem to be the determinative factors as to whether a plan will be considered ethically and legally appropriate. In some cases, individuals have gone to jail for contempt of court for failing to unwind a plan that a judge felt was repugnant to the principles of law and justice, however in those cases the individuals incarcerated retained some control over their plan immediately prior to, or during, litigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "18873370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18873370", "title": "Auditor General of Sri Lanka", "text": "Auditor General of Sri Lanka\n\nThe Auditor General of Sri Lanka (Sinhala: ශ්‍රී ලංකා විගණකාධිපති \"Śrī Laṃkā viganakādhipathi\"; Tamil: இலங்கை கணக்காய்வாளர் தலைமை) is appointed by the President to aid accountability by conducting independent audits of government operations. These audits provide members of Parliament with objective information to help them examine the government's activities and hold it to account. According to the constitution, the Auditor General is empowered to audit the accounts of all departments of Government, the Offices of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Judicial Service Commission, the Public Service Commission, the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, the Secretary-General of Parliament and the Commissioner of Elections, local authorities, public corporations and business or other undertakings vested in the Government under any written law.\n\nThe Auditor General of Sri Lanka is the head of the Auditor General's Department.\n\nWhile the title of \"Auditor General of Sri Lanka\" was formally adopted on the country's enactment of its 1978 republican constitution, the position or an equivalent to it has existed since 1799 under various titles. The Department in its current form considers itself a continuation of the office established in 1799, and the table below thus lists all officeholders that have held positions equivalent to the position of the current Auditor General.\n\n"}
{"id": "47343656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47343656", "title": "Bernice Herstein", "text": "Bernice Herstein\n\nBernice Herstein (September 6, 1918 – November 8, 1950) was an American socialite, the wife of investor Seymour Durst and mother of their four children Robert, Douglas, Wendy and Thomas Durst. \n\nHerstein was born into a Jewish family from Germany in Scarsdale, Westchester County, New York. She married Seymour Durst in 1940. She died under mysterious circumstances, falling from the roof of the family's Scarsdale home during the middle of the night, with her oldest child Robert (a suspected murderer) claiming to have been forced to witness the entire event while Douglas insists all four children were together at a neighbors house when she perished. Douglas Durst maintains his brother is attempting to blame their father and childhood events for his criminal behavior to garner public sympathy.\n"}
{"id": "326578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326578", "title": "Brooke Astor", "text": "Brooke Astor\n\nRoberta Brooke Astor (née Russell; March 30, 1902 – August 13, 2007) was an American philanthropist, socialite, and writer who was the chairwoman of the Vincent Astor Foundation, which had been established by her third husband, Vincent Astor, son of John Jacob Astor IV and great-great grandson of America's first multi-millionaire, John Jacob Astor. Brooke Astor was the author of two novels and two volumes of personal memoirs.\n\nBrooke was born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, the only child of John Henry Russell, Jr. (1872–1947), the 16th Commandant of the Marine Corps, and his wife, Mabel Cecile Hornby Howard (1879–1967). Her paternal grandfather John Henry Russell, Sr. was a rear admiral in the U.S. Navy. She was named for her maternal grandmother (Roberta) and was known as Bobby to close friends and family.\n\nDue to her father's career, she spent much of her childhood living in China, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, and other places. Also, she briefly attended The Madeira School in 1919 but graduated from the Holton-Arms School.\n\nShe married her first husband, John Dryden Kuser (1897–1964), shortly after her 17th birthday, on April 26, 1919, in Washington, D.C. \"I certainly wouldn't advise getting married that young to anyone,\" she said later in life. \"At the age of sixteen, you're not jelled yet. The first thing you look at, you fall in love with.\"\n\nJohn was the son of the financier and conservationist Anthony Rudolph Kuser and Susie Fairfield Drydan. Susie's father was U.S. Senator John Fairfield Dryden. John Kuser later became a New Jersey Republican councilman, assemblyman, and state senator. They also lived in Bernardsville, New Jersey.\n\nBrooke described her tumultuous first marriage as the \"Worst years of my life\", which was punctuated by her husband's alleged physical abuse, alcoholism, and adultery. According to Frances Kiernan's 2007 biography of Brooke Astor, when Brooke was six months pregnant with the couple's only child, her husband broke her jaw during a marital fight. \"I learned about terrible manners from the family of my first husband,\" she told \"The New York Times\". \"They didn't know how to treat people.\" A year after the marriage, according to a published account of the divorce proceedings, John \"began to embarrass her in social activities\" and \"told her that he no longer loved her and that their marriage was a failure.\"\n\nBrooke and John had one son, Anthony Dryden \"Tony\" Kuser, May 30, 1924. She filed for divorce February 15, 1930, in Reno, Nevada. It was finalized later that year. John married his second wife, Vieva Marie Fisher Banks (formerly Mrs. James Lenox Banks, Jr.) September 6, 1930, in Virginia City, Nevada. They had one daughter, Suzanne Dryden Kuser, and divorced in October 1935. A week later, Sen. Kuser married Louise Mattei Farry (formerly Mrs. Joseph Farry). In 1958, he married, as his fourth wife, Grace Egglesfield Gibbons (widow of John J. Gibbons). An amateur ornithologist and president of the New Jersey Audubon Society, Sen. Kuser introduced the bill that made the eastern goldfinch the state bird of New Jersey. He also was, at various times, an insurance and real estate broker in New Jersey (1937–1942) and Nevada (1942–1955), a vice president of Lenox, Inc., the pottery and china company, a columnist for the Nevada State Journal (1943–1947), and a director of the Fox Film Corporation.\n\nHer second husband, whom she married in 1932, was Charles Henry \"Buddy\" Marshall (1891–1952). Buddy was the senior partner of the investment firm Butler, Herrick & Marshall, a brother-in-law of the mercantile heir Marshall Field III, and a descendant of James Lenox, the founder of the Lenox Library.\n\nAstor later wrote that the marriage was \"a great love match.\"\n\nShe had two stepchildren by the marriage, Peter Marshall and Helen Huntington Marshall. Helen Marshall's first marriage was to composer Ernest Schelling and, her second to cellist János Scholz\n\nIn 1942, Brooke's then-18-year-old son Tony changed his name to Anthony Dryden Marshall out of admiration for his stepfather. Buddy's financial fortunes turned in the mid-1940s, at which time Brooke went to work for eight years as a features editor at \"House & Garden\" magazine. She also briefly worked for Ruby Ross Wood, a prominent New York interior decorator who, with her associate Billy Baldwin, decorated the Marshalls' apartment at 1 Gracie Square in New York City.\n\nIn October 1953, 11 months after Charles Marshall's death, she married her third and final husband, William Vincent Astor (1891–1959), the chairman of the board of \"Newsweek\" magazine and the last notably rich American member of the famous Astor family. Vincent was the son of \"RMS Titanic\" victim John Jacob \"Jack\" Astor IV (1864–1912) and socialite Ava Lowle Willing (1868–1958), he had been married and divorced twice before, was childless, and was known to have a difficult personality.\n\n\"He had a dreadful childhood, and as a result, had moments of deep melancholy,\" Brooke recalled. \"But I think I made him happy. That's what I set out to do. I'd literally dance with the dogs, sing and play the piano, and I would make him laugh, something no one had ever done before. Because of his money, Vincent was very suspicious of people. That's what I tried to cure him of.\"\n\nNot wanting to die alone, Astor agreed to divorce his second wife, Mary Benedict \"Minnie\" Cushing, only after she had found him a replacement spouse. Minnie had first suggested Janet Newbold Rhinelander-Stewart, the newly divorced wife of James Smith Bush II, who turned down Astor's proposal with startling candor stating \"I don't even like you\". Minnie then suggested the recently widowed Brooke. Few people believed that the Astor-Marshall union was anything more than a financial transaction. According to Brooke's friend Louis Auchincloss; \"Of course she married Vincent for the money,\" adding, \"I wouldn't respect her if she hadn't. Only a twisted person would have married him for love.\"\n\nDuring her brief marriage to Vincent, whom she called \"Captain\", Brooke participated in his real-estate and hotel empire and his philanthropic endeavors. Between 1954 and 1958, she redecorated one of his properties, the Hotel St. Regis, which had been built by his father. Vincent died leaving all his money to Brooke. His younger half-brother socialite John Jacob \"Jakey\" Astor VI (1912–1992) was left with nothing since Vincent's hatred for Jakey's mother Madeleine (Jack's second wife and widow) led him to believe he was not even a biological Astor. Vincent had nothing but contempt for him. Jakey felt cheated and resentfully stated Vincent \"had the legal, not the moral right to keep all the money\". He was certain that Vincent was \"mentally incompetent\" when signing his last will in June 1958 due to alcoholism, though Brooke insisted otherwise. While Vincent was hospitalized, Brooke would often bring him liquor. Jakey accused her of using the liquor to influence the will in her favor. Jakey ended up settling for $250,000. The rest of money remained with the Vincent Astor foundation and Brooke. Before Vincent's death, Brooke once privately admitted to her daughter-in-law Elizabeth Cynthia \"Liz\" Cryan: \"I don't think I can stand being married to him anymore. I don't think I can take it. He never wants to go anywhere — he's so antisocial.\"\n\nThough she received several proposals after Astor's death, she chose not to remarry. In a 1980 interview, she stated: \"I'd have to marry a man of a suitable age and somebody who was a somebody, and that's not easy. Frankly, I think I'm unmarriageable now\", and also said \"I'm too used to having things my way. But I still enjoy a flirt now and then.\"\n\nThough she was appointed a member of the board of the Astor Foundation soon after her marriage, upon Vincent Astor's death in 1959, she took charge of all the philanthropies to which he left his fortune. She served as a Trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and chaired the Visiting Committee of the Metropolitan's Department of Far Eastern Art; she is credited with the idea for a Chinese garden courtyard, the Astor Court, in the Metropolitan. In addition, Astor served as a member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's 100th Anniversary Committee and hosted the Metropolitan's Centennial Ball. Despite liquidating the Vincent Astor Foundation in 1997, she continued to be active in charities and in New York's social life. The New York Public Library was always one of Astor's favorite charities, as was The Animal Medical Center. In 1988, she was awarded the National Medal of Arts. She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1992. As a result of her charity work, Astor was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1998. Her life's motto summed up her prodigious generosity: \"Money is like manure; it's not worth a thing unless it's spread around.\" \n\nAmong numerous other organizations, she was involved with Lighthouse for the Blind, the Maternity Center Association, the Astor Home for emotionally disturbed children, the International Rescue Committee, the Fresh Air Fund, and the Women's Auxiliary Board of the Society of New York Hospital.\n\nThe \"Daily News\" ran a cover story July 26, 2006, describing the family feud between Brooke's son Tony and his son Philip Cryan Marshall, regarding Brooke's welfare. The story detailed how her grandson, a historic preservationist and associate professor at Roger Williams University, had filed a lawsuit seeking the removal of his father as the socialite's guardian and the appointment of Annette de la Renta, the wife of designer Oscar de la Renta, instead.\n\nAccording to accounts published in \"The New York Times\" and the \"Daily News\", Astor was diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease and suffered from anemia, among other ailments. The lawsuit alleged that Marshall had not provided for his elderly mother and, instead, had allowed her to live in squalor and reduced necessary medication and doctor's visits, while enriching himself with income from her estate. Philip Marshall further charged that his father sold his grandmother's favorite Childe Hassam painting in 2002 without her knowledge and with no record as to the whereabouts of the funds received from the sale. In addition to Annette de la Renta, Henry Kissinger and David Rockefeller provided affidavits supporting Philip Marshall's requests for a change in guardianship.\n\nThe day the story appeared, New York Supreme Court Justice John Stackhouse sealed the documents pertaining to the lawsuit and granted an order appointing Annette de la Renta guardian and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to be in charge of Brooke's finances. Several news organizations, including the Associated Press and \"The New York Times\", sued to have the records of the Astor case unsealed in the public interest; their request was granted September 1, 2006. Astor was moved to Lenox Hill Hospital, where an unidentified nurse called her appearance \"deplorable\", according to the \"Daily News\". Brooke's son Tony unsuccessfully attempted to have his mother transferred to another hospital.\n\nBrooke was released from Lenox Hill Hospital July 29, 2006, and moved to Holly Hill, her estate in the village of Briarcliff Manor, New York, where she died August 13, 2007.\n\nMeryl Gordon's book, \"Mrs. Astor Regrets: The Hidden Betrayals of a Family Beyond Reproach\" (2008), makes use of diaries kept by the nurses who cared for Brooke during the last years of her life. The diaries were compiled over the four years Astor received care and detail the abuse that Mrs. Astor reportedly received from her son, Anthony (Tony).\n\nPhilip C. Marshall was tenured professor and director of historic preservation at Roger Williams University until 2017 when he left to dedicate his efforts, full-time, to elder justice as Founder of Beyond Brooke.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported August 1, 2006, that Anthony Marshall was accused by Alice Perdue, an employee in his mother's business office, of diverting nearly $1 million from his ailing mother's personal checking accounts into theatrical productions. Marshall, through a spokesman, said that his mother knew of the investments and approved of them. Perdue countered that Marshall had advised her never to send to his mother any documents of a financial nature because \"she didn't understand it.\"\n\nThe claims made by Philip Marshall regarding his father's handling of the estate prompted interest in the matter. The New York District Attorney announced indictments on criminal charges against Tony and attorney Francis X. Morrissey Jr., November 27, 2007. The charges stemmed from the district attorney's office and subsequent grand jury investigation into the mishandling of Astor's money, and a questionable signature on the third amendment to her 2002 will, made in March 2004. That amendment called for Astor's real estate to be sold and the proceeds added to her residuary estate. An earlier amendment, also made in 2004, which designated Marshall as the executor of his mother's estate and left him the entirety of the residuary estate, was also under investigation.\n\nThe specific charges included grand larceny, criminal possession of stolen property, forgery, scheming to defraud, falsifying business records, offering a false instrument for filing, and conspiracy in plundering her $198 million estate. The most severe charge, grand larceny, carries up to a 25-year sentence.\n\nThe trial of Marshall and Morrissey started March 30, 2009, with the jury selection. The judge, Justice A. Kirke Bartley Jr., had originally indicated that the trial could last up to three months. After deliberations that stretched over 12 days and were reportedly marked by bitter disagreements that left one female juror claiming to feel personally threatened, the jury convicted Anthony D. Marshall of one of two charges of grand larceny, the most serious of a number of charges brought against him October 8, 2009. The same jury convicted Francis X. Morrissey Jr. of forgery. In December 2009, Marshall and Morrisey were both sentenced to 1–3 years in prison. Philip C. Marshall, Astor's grandson, said that now that his father has been convicted in the Brooke Astor will case, he expects the will to be contested by various charities.\n\nNovember 30, 2011, Sotheby's announced plans for an April 19, 2012, auction of jewelry as well as fine and decorative arts from her Park Avenue apartment and Holly Hill, her Westchester estate.\n\nBrooke died August 13, 2007, aged 105, from pneumonia, at her home in Briarcliff Manor, New York. A funeral service was held at Saint Thomas Church (Manhattan) on August 17. Among the guests were Henry Kissinger, Whoopi Goldberg, Jessye Norman and Michael Bloomberg. She is interred in the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery next to Vincent.\n\nOne of Astor's death notices in \"The New York Times\", a paid notice from The Rockefeller University, ended with these lines:\n\nAmong the organizations who lamented Brooke's death are The Animal Medical Center of New York, Brooklyn Stained Glass Conservation Center, Carnegie Hall, the Citizens' Committee for New York City, Historic Hudson Valley, The Juilliard School, Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, Library of America, Lotos Club, Merchant's House Museum, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Morris-Juemel Mansion Museum, New York Botanical Garden, New York Landmarks Conservancy, New York-Presbyterian Hospital, New York Public Library, New York Regional Association of Grantmakers, New York University, Pierpont Morgan Library, Rockefeller University, Wildlife Conservation Society, and WNET-TV.\n\nShe is interred in Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Sleepy Hollow, New York. The epitaph on her gravestone, chosen by her, reads: \"I had a wonderful life\".\n\n\nBrooke Astor is portrayed as the heroine, Jane Merle, of the romantic comedy \"Night and Silence: Who is Here?\" by British novelist Pamela Hansford Johnson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23798040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23798040", "title": "Business improvement district", "text": "Business improvement district\n\nA business improvement district (BID) is a defined area within which businesses are required to pay an additional tax (or levy) in order to fund projects within the district's boundaries. The BID is often funded primarily through the levy but can also draw on other public and private funding streams. BIDs may go by other names, such as business improvement area (BIA), business revitalization zone (BRZ), community improvement district (CID), special services area (SSA), or special improvement district (SID). These districts typically fund services which are perceived by some businesses as being inadequately performed by government with its existing tax revenues, such as cleaning streets, providing security, making capital improvements, construction of pedestrian and streetscape enhancements, and marketing the area. The services provided by BIDs are supplemental to those already provided by the municipality. The revenue derives from a tax assessment on commercial property owners, and in some cases, residential property owners. \n\nThe first BID was the Bloor West Village Business Improvement Area, established in Toronto in 1970 as an initiative by local private business. The first BID in the United States was the Downtown Development District in New Orleans, established in 1974. There are now 1,200 across the country. Other countries with BIDs include Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Jamaica, Serbia, Albania, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe process for creating a BID varies from one jurisdiction to another. In the United States, it generally involves three steps. First, some number of businesses in the area petition the local government to create the BID. Second, the local government determines that a majority of businesses want the BID. Third, the local government enacts legislation creating the BID. Prior to this occurring, state legislatures need to grant local units the authority to create BIDs.\n\nBIDs in England and Wales are funded by a levy on the occupiers rather than the owners of the properties within the area. If voted in by local businesses, the BID levy is an extension to existing non-domestic business-rates. \"In England and Wales, for a BID to go ahead the ballot must be won on two counts: straight majority and majority of rateable value. In Scotland for a ballot to be successful it must meet four criteria, a minimum turnout of 25% by the number of eligible persons (the headcount) and by rateable value and a majority of those that vote by number of ballots and by rateable value must vote in favour. This ensures that the interests of large and small businesses are protected.\"\n\nThe operating budgets of BIDs range from a few thousand dollars to tens of millions of dollars.\n\nA BID may be operated by a nonprofit organization or by a quasi-governmental entity. The governance of a BID is the responsibility of a board composed of some combination of property owners, businesses, and government officials. The management of a BID is the job of a paid administrator, usually occupying the position of an executive director of a management company.\n\nThere are nearly 1,000 BIDs in the United States. New York City has 74 BIDs, the most of any city; in NYC, BIDs invest $134 million annually in neighborhoods throughout the five boroughs . BIDs exist in almost every one of the top 50 largest cities in the United States, including Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, Philadelphia, Atlanta, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington, DC. Minneapolis and Boston have been the last of the top 20 largest regions to adopt a business improvement district. The State of Wisconsin has adopted the most for smaller towns, with about 90 in the state, 25 of those being in Milwaukee and the rest throughout the state.\n\nIn Canada, Toronto has 81 BIAs within its city limit. Montreal – where BIAs are called Sociétés de Développement Commerciale (SDC) – has 17. The City of Winnipeg has 16 \"Business Improvement Zones,\" the first of which were formed in 1987, with the amendment of The City of Winnipeg Act. In the province of Alberta, they are termed \"business revitalization zones\". There are nine zones in the city of Calgary and 10 in Edmonton. Regina, Saskatchewan has two Business Improvement Districts: Regina Downtown (BID) and The Warehouse District. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan has 4 Business Improvement Districts: The Broadway BID, The Downtown Partnership, The Sutherland BID and The Riversdale BID. Some work has been made on creating a 5th BID in Saskatoon for the area of 33rd Street. It is estimated that there are over 400 BIDs in Canada but no count has been made. There are 8 business improvement districts in the Halifax Regional Municipality. Halifax Regional Municipality has passed by laws in 2012 regarding the formation and conduct of these BIDs.\nThe 8 BIDS are: Downtown Halifax Business Commission, Downtown Dartmouth Business Commission, Spring Garden Area Business Association, North End Business Association, Quinpool Mainstreet and District Association Ltd. Sackville Business Association, Spryfield Business Association, Main Street Dartmouth Business Association.\n\nBIDs have also become a powerful lobby group, lobbying government for improvements such as new sidewalks, trees, park benches and other restorations. BIDs can also lobby different levels of government for a complete facelift on their area if they feel it is necessary to improve business. The Rideau Street BIA in Ottawa has lobbied the city for years to give the entire street a face-lift because of its \"run down\" look.\n\nwww.britishbids.info is the industry body focused entirely on Business Improvement Districts. \nThe organisation offers advice and services on BID development, management and renewal along with a range of training services and the Certificate in BID Management.\n\nBritish BIDs conducts an annual Nationwide BID Survey. 2017 saw the publication of the 11th of these. The survey covers the fundamentals of a BID – number of businesses, types of businesses, levy rate and so on. It also asks questions about project delivery – what various BID's are delivering and how it works with other key strategic partners amongst other things. The survey provides the industry a real insight to the position at present.\n\nBritish BIDs also produces the Industry Criteria and Guidance for developing and renewing BIDs alongside supporting organisations the ATCM, Revo, ACS, BRC, intu and BPF.\n\nBritish BIDs also administers the DCLG BID Loan Fund which supports developing BIDs.\n\nIn February 2017, Professor Chris Turner was appointed Chief Executive of British BIDs.\n\nBritish BIDs have a Comprehensive renewal support package called Ballot Buddy which gives absolute confidence that the regs are adhered to and not at risk of a challenge.\n\nIn England and Wales, BIDs were introduced through legislation (the Local Government Act 2003) and subsequent regulations in 2004. The Circle Initiative, a five-year scheme funded by the London Development Agency, set up the first pilot BIDs, five in London, all of which had successful ballots by March 2006. Association of Town Centre Management-coordinated pilot 'talking shops' in 22 locations in England and Wales corresponded with the development of BIDs' regulations. As of October 2007 there were 36 proposed or operational BIDs across Greater London. By late 2014, there were over 180 BIDs in operation in the United Kingdom. By February 2017, there were 270 BIDs in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe New West End Company is the management and promotional company for Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street.\nAs one of the largest Business Improvement Districts (BID) in Europe, New West End Company brings together the commercial interests of over 600 retailers, property owners and West End businesses working closely with the Mayor of London, Transport for London, Westminster City Council, the Metropolitan Police and local neighbours in a collective vision to drive forward the nations retail heartland.\n\nBetter Bankside was the third BID to be established in the UK, the second in London and the first south of the river. It was founded in 2005, and underwent a successful re-ballot in 2010 with 82% of businesses in favour. The Better Bankside BID was set up and is managed by The means, a regeneration consultancy company.\n\nIn July 2015, the Nottingham BID was successfully renewed by Central Management Solutions, a specialist management company for urban centres. This was particularly notable due to the fact that the BID merged the former leisure BID with the larger but, nonetheless, younger retail BID. The merger has led to combined services and aligned city promotions to consumers. \n\nIn July 2015 the South Birmingham 'Lifford Bid' (Kings Norton, Cotteridge, Stirchley and Bournville) was rejected, with the Yes vote falling short with 45% of the vote.\nBusiness Improvement Districts Scotland (http://www.bids-scotland.com/) is the national organisation and voice for BIDs in Scotland. BIDS is responsible for delivering the Scottish Governments BIDs programme across Scotland, providing central support to developing BIDs, promoting and encouraging the development of BIDs across the country, whilst also working with operational BIDs to assist them in delivering for their local communities and contributing to sustainable inclusive economic growth. \n\nThe Scottish Government provides a grant to local groups of up to £20,000 to help with the development of the BID. The legislation in Scotland (The Planning etc. (Scotland) Act 2006) is different from the England and Wales legislation in that it allows property owners as well as occupiers to be included in a BID. There are also differences in the timescales, ballot criteria (in Scotland for a ballot to be successful it must meet four criteria, a minimum turnout of 25% by the number of eligible persons (the headcount) and by rateable value and a majority of those that vote by number of ballots and by rateable value must vote in favour), reballot and the legislative requirements of the BID Proposer. \n\nThe intention of the Scottish legislation is that BIDs are not restricted to towns and city centres to allow different and innovative BIDs to be developed across the country. The consultation of 2003 proposed that the BIDs model could be used in business parks, tourism and visitor areas, rural areas, agriculture and single business sectors. The legislation, and subsequent regulations were passed by the Scottish Parliament in 2006 and 2007 respectively. \n\nIn March 2006, the Scottish Government announced funding for six pilot BIDs in Scotland, Bathgate (town centre), Clackmannanshire (business parks), Edinburgh (city centre), Falkirk (town centre), Glasgow (city centre) and Inverness (city centre). There are currently thirty seven operational BIDs in Scotland with a further twenty four in development. The thirty seven operational BIDs include thirty one town and city centre BIDs and three business park BIDs. \n\nIn March 2014 the first tourism BID (TBID) was delivered in Loch Ness and Inverness (http://www.uniqueness.co.uk/)with others under discussion. The first themed BID in Scotland was delivered in December 2013, the Sauchiehall Street Evening Economy BID. In 2016 the worlds first Food and Drink BID was delivered in East Lothian (https://www.scotlandsfooddrinkcounty.com/) with the levy based on the number of full time employess, also a first. \n\nThe development and interest in the BIDs model in Scotland continues to grow and the flexibility of the legislation and the model is now being recognised with the development of the Borders Railway BIDs Corridor and four Canal BIDs led by Scottish Waterways Trust. IN 2017 BIDs Scotland published The National Report on BIDs in Scotland (https://www.bids-scotland.com/about-us/the-national-report-on-bids-in-scotland-2017) which covers the types of BIDs, number of businesses, levels of employment in BIDs in Scotland and the contribution they make to sustainable and inclusive economic growth. The opportunity for more innovative BIDs is under discussion. \n\nSix of the sixteen German Bundeslander (Federal States) introduced the requisite legal framework to create BIDs: Hamburg, Bremen, Hessen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Saarland and Schleswig-Holstein. BID projects in implementation exist only in a few German cities, yet – e.g. in Flensburg, Hamburg and Giessen.\n\nWhilst BIDs have been heralded for improving the trading environment, BIDs have also received noteworthy criticism.\n\nBIDs have been accused of being by their very nature undemocratic, and that they concentrate power in a geographic area into the hands of the few. Small businesses who fall below the BID levy threshold, although not liable to pay the BID levy, are often priced out of an area because BIDs tend to increase rental values. Larger businesses are more able to absorb these rent increases, particularly the multiple stores.\n\nBIDs have also been criticized in the past by anti-poverty groups for being too harsh on the homeless and poor who may congregate around businesses. BIDs have also been known to be opposed to street vendors such as hot dog vendors and chip wagons. In London, street traders who sold small items to tourists were barred from Oxford Street in London.\n\nPresident of Civic Voice, Griff Rhys Jones criticised the creation of a BID in central London neighbourhood saying that is undemocratic: \"Neither the people who live there, nor the many intriguing small shops and businesses, have been allowed to vote or have even been consulted.\". \"I am wary of this initiative because of what may become unintended consequences (or indeed intended consequences) that help one sort of business (the property letting business) but will cause problems to smaller businesses and the large and wholly integrated residential population of the district\". He also criticised some of the methods to oppose the BID.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2350482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2350482", "title": "Change order", "text": "Change order\n\nIn project management, a change order also referred to as a contract change note refers to the changes in the scope of work agreed to by the owner, contractor, and architect or engineer.\n\nA change order is work that is added to or deleted from the original scope of work of a contract, however, depending on the magnitude of the change, it may or may not alter the original contract amount and/or completion date. A change order may force a new project to handle significant changes to the current project.\n\nChange orders are common to most projects, and very common with large projects. After the original scope (or contract) is formed, complete with the total price to be paid and the specific work to be completed, a client may decide that the original plans do not best represent his or her definition for the finished project. Accordingly, the client will suggest an alternate approach.\n\nCommon causes for change orders to be created are:\n\n\nA project manager then typically generates a change order that describes the new work to be done (or not done in some cases), and the price to be paid for this new work. Once this change order is submitted and approved it generally serves to alter the original contract such that the change order now becomes part of the contract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57170367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57170367", "title": "Charles Liebmann", "text": "Charles Liebmann\n\nCharles Liebmann (November 16, 1837 – June 12, 1928) was a German-born American brewer and president of S. Liebmann Brewery (later Rheingold Breweries) in Brooklyn, New York. The brewery's main brand \"Rheingold Extra Dry\" was one of the most popular beer brands in New York City in the 1940s to 1960s.\n\nCharles Liebmann was born to a Jewish family in Schmiedelfeld in 1837, the son of Dara (née Selz) and Samuel Liebmann. His father was, at the time, the owner of the estate Schloss Schmiedelfeld. In 1840, the family moved to Ludwigsburg and ran the inn \"Zum Stern\" and its attached brewery; and where the young Liebmann attended secondary school. His father determined to immigrate to the United States for political reasons and sent Charles' brother in 1850 in advance to procure a home. In 1854, the remainder of the family immigrated settling in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The family first operated the old \"Maasche Brewery\" while Charles worked as a cooper at the \"F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Company\". Pooling their resources, the family built a new brewery in Bushwick named the \"S. Liebmann Brewery\".\n\nAfter the death of his father in 1872, the three sons took over the management of the brewery and renamed it \"S. Liebmann's Sons Brewing Company\". The Liebmann brothers alternated with each other as Chief Executive Officer each year. Charles Liebmann was considered the technical director of the company.\nIn 1903, the Liebmann brothers retired and handed over the management of the company to six of their sons.\n\nOn October 22, 1865, Liebmann married Sophia Bendix; they had four children:\n\nLiebmann died on June 12, 1928 in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "40853438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40853438", "title": "Chief visibility officer", "text": "Chief visibility officer\n\nA chief visibility officer (CVO) or director of visibility is an individual appointed to oversee all aspects of performance across retail stores, corporations or organizations as part of the C-Suite of executives. The role of the CVO emerged to manage the integration of ideas, disciplines, technologies and people focused on elevating retail enterprise visibility. The title is commonly associated with Retail Loss Prevention (LP) leaders and professionals who maintain the highest position in security management and maintain the security operations in the store to achieve a high level of visibility.\n\nThe CVO is focused on security systems as they contribute to higher profits and elevated store performance levels. The importance of the CVO position has risen as criminals and organized retail crime grows more sophisticated in thwarting security solutions. According to the Centre for Retail Research Global Retail Theft Barometer 2011 study, Total global shrink in 2011 cost retailers $119.092 billion, an average of 1.45% of global retail sales. The shrinkage rate was an average of 6.6% higher than 2010. The losses are said to cost each family $199.89 per that year. Working with security integrators to achieve maximum visibility into what takes place in a retail store on a daily basis allows the CVO to impact not only shrinkage numbers, but also to improve store operations. This approach was cited by the University of Leicester study on Effective Retail Loss Prevention, 10 Ways to Keep Shrinkage Low where it was noted that among the keys to reducing shrinkage in an organization included establishing a senior management commitment, ensuring organisational ownership, embedding loss prevention into the business and providing strong leadership.\n\nShrinkage can occur in a number of different areas for a retailer: employee theft, including sweethearting shoplifting/organized retail crime, administrative error and vendor fraud. The goal of a CVO is to maximize business profits by reducing losses. To accomplish this objective, CVOs analyze the full spectrum of store operations from employee and customer behavior to vendor and supplier patterns and supply chains. Integrated technologies can provide a comprehensive picture of customer behavior, staffing needs and merchandising trends, in addition to preventing losses for the store. The CVO must be in touch with core challenges across an organization to implement and integrate security solutions tailored to protect its unique vulnerabilities. According to securitysales.com retailers are looking beyond standalone technology like electronic article surveillance (EAS) systems or cameras and access control and aiming to have visibility across the demand and supply chain.\n"}
{"id": "4056762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4056762", "title": "Chung Mong-joon", "text": "Chung Mong-joon\n\nChung Mong-joon or Chung Mong Joon (, born October 17, 1951) is a South Korean businessman and politician. He is the sixth son of Chung Ju-yung, founder of Hyundai, the second-largest South Korean \"chaebol\" before its breakup in 2003. He remains the controlling shareholder of a Hyundai offshoot, Hyundai Heavy Industries Group, parent of the world's largest shipbuilding company. He is also the chairman of the board of the University of Ulsan and Ulsan College in Ulsan, South Korea. He is the founder and the honorary chairman of The Asan Institute for Policy Studies. He was Honorary Vice-President of FIFA and president of the South Korean football association.\n\nChung became a politician when he was elected as an assembly man in 1988 and served consecutive 7 terms in two different electoral districts. Initially he was elected in Dong District, Ulsan where predominant share of its population consisted of Hyundai Heavy Industries Group's employees, its affiliated companies' employees, and their families. Most of other population in Dong District run businesses related with serving those workers and their families. Chung served as a representative of this particular district for 20 years. He joined Grand National Party in 2007 shortly before 2007 South Korean presidential election, declaring his support to that party's presidential candidate Lee Myung-bak. As a member of Grand National Party, he switched his electoral district to Dongjak District, Seoul, and represented there as an assembly man for 2 terms until 2014 when he had to give up that seat to run for mayor of Seoul, but the election was lost to Park Won-soon leaving no political titles for Chung after. Grand National Party changed its name to Saenuri Party in 2012. Chung had announced his candidacy for FIFA president. However he was banned from all football activities for six years by FIFA Ethics Committee in October 2015. In 2018, the ban was reduced to 15 months by the Court of Arbitration for Sport due to \"mitigating factors.\"\n\nIn 2002, he ran for the presidency, but later gave up his candidacy supporting Millennium Democratic Party's candidate Roh Moo-hyun. Their coalition was motivated to prevent Grand National Party from winning the presidential election. South Korean regionalism became much more serious and antagonistic under President Kim Dae-jung's term. President Kim is the only South Korean president coming from Jeolla province, whereas all the other South Korean presidents since General Park Chung-hee's military coup in 1961 have been from Gyeongsang province. Those of Koreans who despised Jeolla province supported Grand National Party, and the party exploited such sentiments for its political gains of denouncing President Kim and his government. Throughout President Kim' term, Grand National Party was accused by civil rights groups and media for instigating anti Jeolla sentiments. Chung and Roh Moo-hyun objected such self-destroying regionalism in South Korea, and advocated reconciliation between Jeolla and Gyeongsang provinces. Their coalition was intended to defeat the party which was seen to exploit regionalism.\n\nChung participated in Roh's presidential campaign up to the last day before the election, Dec 19, 2002. On Dec 18 afternoon, before the crowd of his supporters in Myeong-dong, Seoul, Roh suggested Chung Dong-young and Choo Mi-ae as viable choices of candidates for the next presidential race in 2007. Roh suggested those Democratic Party's politicians when he saw some of the crowd having slogans \"Chung Mong-joon for the next presidential candidate\" Roh's suggestion was not intended to exclude Chung as a presidential candidate, but to encourage and to praise his party's politicians in return to their supports to his presidential campaign.\nSeveral hours after this, Chung's spokeswoman officially announced Chung's withdrawal from supporting Roh. Roh's presidential camp was stunned by this, and Roh tried to allay Chung by visiting his home in person on the very last night before the presidential election, but Chung kept his front door closed and refused to see Roh. Nevertheless, Roh went on to win the election on the following day for the victory of all of those Koreans who wished to see regionalism end in South Korea.\n\nChung's joining of Grand National Party is an irony because his withdrawal from the presidential race in 2002 supporting Roh Moo-hyun was responsible for Grand National Party's failure in winning the presidential election. The party's candidate Lee Hoi-chang received absolute support from conservative or anti Jeolla voters. By the help of Chung's withdrawal, the election became bipolar between Roh and Lee, and Roh turned out to be a winner receiving exclusive support from reform-minded Korean voters. Grand National Party had to wait another 5 years to produce a president from this defeat. Also his declaration to support Lee Myung-bak when he joined Grand National Party is an irony. When Chung's father Chung Ju-yung ran for the presidency in 1992, Lee Myung-bak supported Kim Young-sam instead of Chung Ju-yung despite the fact that Lee made fortune and fame when he worked at Hyundai. Chung Ju-yung even bought him a luxurious house when Lee worked for Chung Ju-yung. So Chung supported his father's ex subordinate who in fact hadn't supported his father in earlier presidential race.\n\nChung's brother Chung Mong-hun, then the president of Hyundai Asan who pioneered South and North joint Mount Kumgang tour business, committed suicide on Aug 4, 2003 when he was investigated by prosecutors for his alleged $400 millions cash remit to North Korea shortly before 2000 North-South summit. Initially this suspicion was raised from US when Congressional Research Service reported such allegation from CIA source on March 5, 2002. Upon hearing of such report, Grand National Party made use of this suspicion to attack the legitimacy of President Kim Dae-jung's government, and demanded thorough investigation through hearings and independent special prosecutors. Several weeks before leaving his office, President Kim gave an apology and advised no investigation for this matter for fear of aggravating North and South's relation, and Chung Mong-hun also confessed much of the allegations to public in his final attempt to evade investigation. But Grand National Party was resolute in its demand for formal investigation. Shortly after Roh's inauguration, Grand National Party passed the law entitling special prosecutors to investigate this case, taking advantage of its majority seats in National Assembly. Roh's regime wasn't able to refuse the demand of investigation, and Chung Mong-hun committed suicide when he was investigated about the use of $15 millions worth of Korean won which was suspected to had been money laundered after its withdrawal from Hyundai's bank accounts. In fact, the money wasn't part of $400 millions cash remittance to North Korea. North Korea blamed Grand National Party immediately after Chung Mong-hun's suicide. So Chung Mong-joon has joined the party which could be considered to be responsible for his brother's death, but Chung blames President Roh instead. In his autobiography which was published in 2011, Chung argues that President Roh didn't refuse Grand National Party's demand of investigation because he believes Roh actually wanted to investigate his brother to revenge on his withdrawal of supporting Roh in 2002 presidential election.\n\nThere is another ironical point behind Chung's joining of Grand National Party. The party tried to dig and disclose Chung's private life information to defame him in 2002 presidential election These included his alleged prior diagnosis of mental disorder in school years, his cheating incidence during final exam in college years, questionable identity of his real mother, discredit of his Johns Hopkins University doctoral degree, and etc. Some of these rumors have turned out to be true. In conclusion Chung settled at the party which had been at odds with him before.\n\nChung was known to be suspended and repeat courses for cheating final exam when he was a freshman in Seoul National University. He was caught by an exam monitor when he was peeping at some other classmate's exam over shoulder during final exam. He was reported to disciplinary committee and got such punishment after the incidence. Chung gave an excuse for this, saying he cheated final exam trying to finish it early to go out with his friends. Chung is the only known public figure in Korean history having such record.\n\nChung's real mother is unknown. When he ran for the South Korean presidency in 2002, Grand National Party explored this point. They speculated about the identity of Chung's real mother. They speculated that his real mother could be a house maid, a geisha, or a particular traditional musician whom Chung Ju-yung had an affair with. In fact, in his interview with news reporters in 2002, Chung indicated that his real mother is someone else, saying he would reveal the truth someday. It was reported that he was crying when he was questioned about his real mother. Chung explained about his real mother in his autobiography in 2011. Chung says that when he studied in US in 1978, he received a letter from someone in Korea who claimed to be his real mother. He hurried to return to Korea, and met her at her place, according to his autobiography. Chung says this was the first and last for him to see that woman.\n\nShortly after he published his autobiography in 2011, some South Korean media reported an allegation that his shipbuilding company bought a large sum of his autobiography in order to make it known as a best seller. The media gathered that information after interviewing inside personnel, and found that Hyundai Heavy Industries Group distributed gift certificates to thousands of their employees to purchase Chung's autobiography. It was reported that they required employees to return the books along with receipts to the company after purchase, and added a special instruction not to purchase large volumes at once for fear of getting suspicions from public.\n\nOn top of publishing his autobiography, Chung also donated huge sums of money and set up a charity foundation in 2011, a year before 2012 presidential election. He contributed $200 million worth of Korean won from selling approximately 5% of his assets and established the Asan Sharing Foundation, which offers educational opportunities and financial assistance to young people from low income families. He said he funded it to commemorate his late father Chung Ju-yung, but many couldn't dismiss reasonable suspicion that his motivation was to impress the public before the presidential election. In fact, Chung didn't deny such suspicion, arguing that donation is supposed to good regardless of purpose.\n\nChung didn't think of Park Geun-hye as accomplished as himself before 2012 presidential election. When he decided to compete with Park, he said he was a better choice as a presidential candidate because of his educational background and work experience. When he pointed out Park's disadvantage, he argued that expertise of politics and economy is not something to be achieved in a short time. When Park Geun-hye wrote an article about North Korean issue in \"Foreign Affairs\", Chung discredited it claiming someone else had written it under her name. Therefore, it was clear that he wouldn't miss 2012 presidential election. In 2012, he ran for the presidency, but only briefly. He was the first politician who submitted application for registration as a preliminary presidential candidate on May 1, 2012, but dropped out of the race in a couple of months. He wanted rule change for primary election so that general population choose party's presidential candidate, but he wasn't able to make this demand sound serious to Grand National Party, since Park Geun-hye's followers dominated and controlled the party. He gave up his candidacy and supported Park after. When he advertised Park at streets, he was saying to crowd that Park was prepared, and she was the one to take good care of economy and diplomacy.\n\nChung is losing popular support in South Korean politics now. When he ran for assemblyman in 2008, he received 54.41% of votes in Dongjak District, but for the following election in 2012, he just received 50.80% barely surviving to lose to the opposition candidate. When he ran for mayor of Seoul in 2014, he received 43.03% votes from Seoul residents, losing to then incumbent mayor of Seoul and previous civil rights activist Park Won-soon, who received 55% of the total vote. It turned out that Chung's electoral district, Dongjak voted only 41.80% for Chung whereas it gave 57.45% for Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29303703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29303703", "title": "Cognitive Information Processing (Career Services)", "text": "Cognitive Information Processing (Career Services)\n\nThe Cognitive Information Processing (CIP) Approach to Career Development and Services is a theory of career problem solving and decision making that was developed through the joint efforts of a group of researchers at the Florida State University Career Center's Center for the Study of Technology in Counseling and Career Development. \n\nCIP theory asserts that the major components involved in determining career decision-making and problem-solving effectiveness are the content and process of career decisions. The importance of the content and process in career decision making can be described by using a metaphor of a recipe. To make a good dish (decision) one must have all necessary ingredients (content), and know how to follow cooking instructions (process).\n\nIn terms of career problem solving and decision making, the CONTENT includes everything one must KNOW to make an effective decision, including knowledge about oneself (values, interests, skills, employment preferences), knowledge about options; knowledge about decision-making skills—and knowledge about the thoughts, emotions, and metacognitions (self-talk, self-awareness, monitoring and control) that are involved. Each of these areas are categorized into domains of information processing, which include the Knowledge Domain (self-knowledge and options knowledge), the Decision-Making Skills Domain, and the Executive Processing Domain (thoughts, emotions, and metacognitions). An analogy of a computer can be used to describe how these domains interact to determine decision-making effectiveness. The Knowledge Domain is similar to the files of information stored on a computer, the Decision Making Skills domain is similar to a computer's hardware and software that make use of the files in a meaningful way, and the Executive Processing Domain can be likened to a computer's brain or motherboard that dictates the computer's overall functionality. These domains are depicted through a diagram of a pyramid.\n\nThe process involves everything one must do to make an effective decision, including: defining the gap between where one is and where one wants to be, gaining a better understanding of oneself and one's options, expanding and narrowing a list of options, valuing and prioritizing remaining options resulting in a first choice, executing the choice by developing a plan of action for implementation, and reflecting back upon the choice. This process can be broken down into five stages (Communication, Analysis, Synthesis, Valuing, Execution) which form the CASVE decision-making cycle that one continually navigates throughout their career development.\n\nPractical application of CIP theory has evolved since 1971 into a cost-effective, self-directed approach to career service delivery currently in use at the FSU Career Center and in many other settings both nationally and globally. The CIP approach is intended to translate theory into practice to help individuals make appropriate current career choices, and learn improved problem-solving and decision-making skills needed for future choices. The CIP approach to career-service delivery includes a number of key elements that can be incorporated by any career center or career-service program as long as certain assumptions are met (multiple staff members, variety of available resources, etc.).\n\nThe key elements of the CIP approach are broken down into a seven-step service delivery model:\n\n1. Screen individuals for career decision-making readiness before delivering services\n\n2. Match level of staff assistance to identified individual needs\n\n3. Use career theory to help individuals understand and manage career decision making\n\n4. Use print and online career resources within all levels of service delivery\n\n5. Use career resources that are appropriate for diverse individual learners\n\n6. Use staff teamwork in delivering services to individuals\n\n7. Provide common staff training for delivering resources and services\n\nCIP theory is based on cognitive therapy concepts developed by Aaron Beck, which specify that dysfunctional cognitions have a detrimental impact on behavior and emotions. Through cognitive restructuring, collaborative empiricism, attention to emotions, and the development of an effective helping relationship, clients learn to replace dysfunctional cognitions with functional cognitions, resulting in positive changes in behavior and emotions. Dysfunctional cognitions have been determined to interfere with the different components of the CIP approach (self-knowledge, options knowledge, communication, analysis, synthesis, valuing, execution, and executive processing); and the assumptions, attitudes, behaviors, beliefs, feelings, plans, and/or strategies related to career problem solving and decision making must be considered when providing career counseling services.\n\nThe Career Thoughts Inventory (CTI) was developed to measure dysfunctional career thoughts, and an accompanying workbook (Improving Your Career Thoughts: A Workbook for the Career Thoughts Inventory) was created to help clients restructure and improve their career thinking. The CTI was developed to integrate the functions of assessment and intervention within a career service delivery context by linking the measure and workbook in such a way that clients can more effectively incorporate the assessment concepts into intervention strategies for change.\n\nThe CTI is designed to be used with high school juniors and seniors who may be choosing a post-secondary field of study, choosing an occupation, or seeking employment; college students who may be choosing a major field of study, choosing an occupation, or seeking employment; and adults who are considering an occupational or employment change, seeking employment due to unemployment or underemployment, or reentering the labor market after a substantial period of non-paid work. The readability of the CTI and the CTI Workbook was calculated to be at a 6.4 and 7.7 grade level, respectively.\n\nTo facilitate quick completion, scoring, and instrument profiling, and avoid service delivery delays or disruptions, the CTI combines the inventory, answer sheet, and profile form into one booklet. The Test Booklet can be quickly scored by clients, human service practitioners, or clerical support staff. The CTI Profile is printed on the back page of the booklet.\n\nIn service delivery, the CTI can be used by practitioners to help adults, college students, and high school students identify, challenge, and subsequently alter dysfunctional thinking that impairs their ability to effectively solve career problems and make career decisions. Specifically, the CTI can be used as an instrument for screening and needs assessment, as well as a learning resource in delivering career services. The CTI Professional Manual provides additional details on the use of the CTI and CTI Workbook, including specific strategies for individual counseling, group counseling, self-directed career decision making, workshops and curricular interventions.\n\nThe reliability (internal consistency, stability), validity (content, construct, convergent), and factor structure of the CTI have been well established. A number of empirical studies have been conducted and have found strong relationships in the expected directions between dysfunctional career thoughts various other constructs (vocational identity, certainty, and knowledge about occupations and training, indecision, neuroticism, vulnerability, angry hostility, self-consciousness, impulsiveness, comfort with choice, lack of information needs, anxiety, depression, self-clarity, decision-making style, cognitive thought patterns, emotional intelligence, symptoms of trauma, self-efficacy, satisfaction with occupational choice, attachment anxiety and avoidance, and others.\n\nThe CTI was designed to be quickly administered (most clients complete the 48 CTI items in 7 to 15 minutes) and scored (and scored in 5 to 8 minutes). As a result, the CTI can be used as part of a brief intake procedure or during an initial session. The CTI Workbook presents interpretive information for all four scales with text, metaphors, and illustrations that practitioners can use to facilitate interpretation of CTI results. The workbook also has several components that can be assigned as homework, such as cognitive restructuring of negative thoughts, developing an individual action plan for using career resources and services, and learning about the decision-making process. Finally, the CTI Test Booklet and the CTI Workbook are relatively inexpensive to purchase and the hand scoring feature eliminates scoring processing fees.\n\nVendor site selling the CTI\n"}
{"id": "15711468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15711468", "title": "Craig Fleisher", "text": "Craig Fleisher\n\nCraig S. Fleisher is a scholar, \nadvisor and author who has written or edited several important books in the fields of public affairs, business insight and competitive intelligence and analysis. Before becoming Dean of the Business School at the College of Coastal Georgia, he was awarded two endowed research chair positions while a Professor of Business (Strategy & Environment) at the Odette School of Business, University of Windsor, Ontario, Canada. His research addresses phenomena in the areas of business and competitive intelligence, corporate public affairs (government relations and lobbying), and performance management and measurement. Since 2011 Dr. Fleisher has served as the Chief Learning Officer of Aurora WDC, a 20+ year old professional services firm (PSF) headquartered in Madison, Wisconsin, USA.\n\nFleisher received his PhD in Business from the Katz Graduate School of Business, University of Pittsburgh, his MBA in Human Resource Management and Marketing from the Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt University, and BSBA in Finance, Insurance and Real Estate from the University of Florida. He also held positions in mortgage banking management, real estate appraisal, and management consulting at various points in his career. After getting his PhD, he took an appointment at the University of Calgary as Associate Professor in the Policy and Environment area, spent nearly a decade in various professorial and program leadership roles at the School of Business and Economics at Wilfrid Laurier University in Waterloo, Ontario, and was at the University of Windsor in endowed chair position for nearly a decade, following a couple of years in decanal positions at the University of New Brunswick. He serves as an Adjunct Professor in Business Information Management at Tampere University of Technology (Finland), Adjunct Professor at the Wisconsin School of Business, University of Wisconsin in Madison, imember of the graduate faculty for the Executive MScom at the Università della Svizzera italiana in Lugano, Switzerland, has also served as a visiting professor or scholar at the University of Sydney (Australia), De Montfort University (Leicester, UK), University of Western Sydney¨and University of Waikato (Hamilton, New Zealand), among others.\n\nHe is considered an expert in the business or competitive intelligence and analysis area based on the number of cited pieces (see Google Scholar for the most current citation counts of his work) he has written or the level of sales his writings have achieved, as well as in the area of corporate public affairs where his books have been positively reviewed or named as best-sellers by leading associations and groups in the field. He was globally recognized for his lifetime contributions to the field of competitive intelligence by being named the Meritorious award winner and Fellow of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals (Alexandria, Virginia, USA), and his efforts in graduate teaching led him to be named one of Canada's top MBA professors by \"Canadian Business Magazine\" in 2006. He has been interviewed about his expertise and research by leading media outlets for magazines, narrow-cast web publications, newspaper, radio and television in a variety of countries, most notably Australia, Canada, and the USA.\n\nFleisher's academic research primarily focuses on two distinct areas of business activity, business and competitive intelligence, and corporate public affairs. Fleisher's dissertation was in the area of measuring public affairs performance, and his research on public affairs benchmarking, performance measurement, and management is among the most cited according to Google Scholar in this field. His two books on these topics, published in 1995 and 1998 by the Public Affairs Council which is headquartered in Washington, DC were recognized as the Council's best-sellers at their time. His other major contributions in the field of corporate and public affairs are the two scholarly handbooks \"The SAGE Handbook of International Corporate and Public Affairs\" in 2017 and the \"Handbook of Public Affairs\" (Sage, 2005) with his colleague Dr. Phil Harris from University of Chester, United Kingdom.\n\nSince 2000, Fleisher is well known for his work in the area of business insights and competitive intelligence, particularly in pushing for the professionalization of the field. He published 3 edited volumes with his Wilfrid Laurier University Marketing professorial colleague David Blenkhorn, those being \"Managing Frontiers in Competitive Intelligence\" in 2001 (Quorum Books, an imprint of the Greenwood Publishing Group), \"Controversies in Competitive Intelligence\" published in 2003 and \"Global Business and Competitive Intelligence\" in 2005 by Praeger Publishers.\n\nThe only Canadian Winner of the international Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals Meritorious Award for his lifetime contributions to the field of competitive intelligence, he may be best known for his two books looking at analysis methods used by consultants and practitioners in applied strategy. This included \"Strategic and Competitive Analysis\" with his colleague and fellow SCIP Meritorious Award winner Babette Bensoussan (Prentice Hall, 2003) and \"Business and Competitive Analysis\" also with Bensoussan, (2Ed., Pearson PLC, 2015, and FT Press, 2007), and \"Analysis without Paralysis\" (w/Bensoussan, 2nd Ed., FT Press, 2015). These books provided background and application information for over 50 separate methods of understanding business phenomena and competition, ranging from popular methods like SWOT analysis, financial ratio & statement analysis, critical success factor analysis, issue analysis, and S-curves to less popular but no less important methods including business model analysis, linchpin analysis, and alternative competing hypotheses. These books also address competitor analysis.\n\nIn addition to his work in academia, Fleisher has served as President of the Board of Directors of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals (Alexandria, Virginia, USA), inaugural chair of the Competitive Intelligence Foundation (Washington, DC) - an organization that he also founded and helped launch with then SCIP Executive Director Alexander Graham, President of the Canadian Council for Public Affairs Advancement, Editor of the \"Journal of Competitive Intelligence and Management\", Associate Editor of the \"Journal of Public Affairs\" published by John Wiley & Sons, and on the editorial boards of the \"International Journal of Technology Intelligence and Planning\" (Inderscience Publishers), \"Asia Pacific Public Relations Journal\", \"South African Journal of Information Management\", \"Competitive Intelligence Review\", \"Public Affairs\", and SCIP Online. He is also a long-time contributor to the Academy of Management's Social Issues in Management division, a founding member of the International Association of Business and Society, a life member of the International Association of Business Communicators, an academic board member of the European Centre for Public Affairs, and a 2007 Canadian award-winning faculty advisor for the Golden Key International Honour Society.\n\nFleisher also speaks globally on his research, having been to over two score different countries in a variety of roles ranging from key-noting conferences and meetings to serving as an authoritative panel member. He regularly shares his research and expertise to corporate groups, executive audiences, professional and trade associations, as well as government departments and officials.\n\nFleisher is the author of ten books and more than one hundred peer-reviewed academic articles in various journals or academic serials. The following bibliography lists a few of his recent publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "5347292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5347292", "title": "Denis O'Donnell", "text": "Denis O'Donnell\n\nDenis O'Donnell (28 May 1875 - 16 June 1933) was a well-known entrepreneur in County Kerry, Ireland, in the early 1900s. \nHe was born in Tubrid, Ardfert, County Kerry, to Patrick O'Donnell of Tubridmore, and Bridget (née Griffin) of Lerrig. He was a grandson of John O'Donnell of Ardfert, who lived at Tubridmore, and descended from O'Donnells of Tyrconnell, following on the implantation of O'Donnells in Ardfert by Prince Hugh Roe O'Donnell en route to the Battle of Kinsale in 1601, as recorded in the Annals of the Kingdom of Ireland. He wrote poetry as a hobby. He initially farmed a family farm at Tubrid until he left to Ballyhaise, an agricultural college.\n\nHe married Hannah Leane, from Ballintobeenig, and they had one child, Patrick Denis O'Donnell. He died of an accident when his son Patrick was only 11 years old, and his widow, Hannah, subsequently emigrated to the United States of America at the outbreak of World War II, when their son, Patrick, joined the Irish Defence Forces.\n\nDenis O'Donnell was schooled in Tubrid, in Spa, and later in Chapeltown national schools, and then farmed some years before proceeding to study and become one of the first graduates of Ballyhaise College, County Cavan, Ireland, with a Diploma in Dairy Science, having studied there from 1908 to 1910. This was the only such qualification available in the country at the time.\n\nIn his early career he was manager in some small creameries, one in County Tipperary, and others in Black Abbey, Adare, County Limerick; in Dicksgrove, Farranfore, and BallymcElligott, and Ballydwyer in County Kerry. He was influenced by the cooperative movement being driven by Sir Horace Plunkett, well described in the account of country life of the times by Elizabeth, Countess of Fingall, \"Seventy Years Young\". Sir Horace Plunkett, MP, and later Senator of the Irish Free State, third son of Lord Dunsany, was father of the Irish agricultural co-operative movement, and founded the Irish Agricultural Organisation Society (now the Irish Co-operative Organisation Society), which included several hundred creameries. Accordingly, Denis O'Donnell actively organised farmers in the early cooperative movement in County Kerry, and founded the Lee Strand Co-operative Creamery on April 20, 1920 in Church Street, Tralee, still a going concern in 2009 although it relocated to Ballymullen in 1992. He owned a pub at #2 Edward Street, Tralee, run by his sister Bride, until her emigration to Kimberly, South Africa. The pub was sold in 1938. He also owned shops in Rock Street and Castle Street in Tralee. He was the first to introduce the pasteurisation of milk, much against the prejudice of dairy farmers at the time, and also was the first to market ice-cream in Tralee.\n\nHis entrepreneurial streak and outreach to farming communities provided a socio-economic complement to the political mobilisation undertaken by his kinsman, Thomas O'Donnell, M.P. for West Kerry, who campaigned for agrarian reforms. Maurice Moynihan, father of Maurice Gerard Moynihan, was a member of the Irish Republican Brotherhood and the Gaelic Athletic Association, was Thomas O'Donnell's campaign manager and was a cousin of Denis O'Donnell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3687569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3687569", "title": "E. H. Harriman Award", "text": "E. H. Harriman Award\n\nThe E.H. Harriman Award was an annual award presented to American railroad companies in recognition for outstanding safety achievements.\n\nThe award was founded in 1913 by Mary Averell Harriman, wife of the late Edward H. Harriman. After her death, the award was presented by her sons E. Roland Harriman and W. Averell Harriman. Today the award is sponsored by the E.H. Harriman Memorial Awards Institute.\nOn January 5, 2012, UP announced to its employees that for the first time in ninety-eight years the Harriman award would be retired after the 2012 award ceremony. The Association of American Railroads (AAR) made the decision to end the award presentation.\n\nWhile the awards were intended to encourage safe operating practices and safety enhancements, the awards have also occasionally been the source of some labor disputes. Part of the award criteria has been a count of the number of reported workplace injuries as tracked by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA); this has led to disciplinary action and even dismissal for employees at some railroads. Several rail labor unions objected to the criteria, going so far as to picket the award ceremonies. Brotherhood of Maintenance of Way Employes (BMWE) General Chairman Paul Beard created the \"Harassment Award\" as a satire of the Harriman Awards to raise awareness of management practices that bred intimidation and disciplinary actions against reporting accidents. In 1999 the FRA invited discussions with representatives of rail labor unions to discuss the problem.\n\nRailroad companies are grouped into one of four categories:\n\nThe award presentations are normally made in May of the year after the award designation; for example, the 2004 awards were presented in May 2005. Past recipients of the E.H. Harriman Award were:\n\n"}
{"id": "203849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203849", "title": "Edward Harkness", "text": "Edward Harkness\n\nEdward Stephen Harkness (January 22, 1874 – January 29, 1940) was an American philanthropist. Given privately and through his family's Commonwealth Fund, Harkness' gifts to private hospitals, art museums, and educational institutions in the Northeastern United States were among the largest of the early twentieth century. His was a major benefactor to the Columbia University, Yale University, Harvard University, Phillips Exeter Academy, St. Paul's School, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, as well as the University of St Andrews in Scotland.\n\nHarkness inherited his fortune from his father, Stephen V. Harkness, whose wealth was established by an early investment in Standard Oil, and his brother, Charles W. Harkness. In 1918, he was ranked the 6th-richest person in the United States by \"Forbes\" magazine's first \"Rich List\", behind John D. Rockefeller, Henry Clay Frick, Andrew Carnegie, George Fisher Baker, and William Rockefeller.\n\nHarkness was born in Cleveland, Ohio, one of four sons of Anna M. Harkness and Stephen V. Harkness, a harness-maker who invested in and was one of the five founding partners in the forerunner of Standard Oil, John D. Rockefeller's oil company. Stephen Harkness died when Edward was fourteen, leaving his wife and oldest son, Charles, to manage the estate. Harkness attended St. Paul's School and Yale College, Class of 1897 and Columbia Law School. Harkness, his brother Charles, and cousin William were members of Wolf's Head Society at Yale.\nAfter graduating, Edward Harkness married Mary Stillman, daughter of wealthy New York attorney Thomas E. Stillman, in 1904. Mary's maternal grandfather was George Greenman, a shipbuilder in Mystic, Connecticut, who founded George Greenman & Co. Harkness' mother gave the couple a new Italian Renaissance mansion on the Upper East Side as a wedding present. As the building's architect, Harkness chose Yale College classmate James Gamble Rogers, who would later design many of his philanthropic building projects. The home, at 75th Street and 5th Avenue and now known as the Edward S. Harkness House, became the headquarters of Harkness' Commonwealth Fund after Mary's death.\n\nHarkness briefly served as a railroad director for the Southern Pacific Railroad, but within several years decided to become a full-time philanthropist. He began making gifts to the Egyptian collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1912, and that same year was appointed to the museum's Board of Trustees.\n\nHarkness' older brother Charles died in 1916 at age 55, leaving Edward more than US$80 million, much of it in Standard Oil stock. Charles had continued to invest substantially in Standard Oil as manager of the family fortune, and his brother's estate made Harkness the third-largest stakeholder in Standard Oil.\n\nHarkness made charitable gifts totaling more than $129 million, the equivalent of $2 billion in 2005 dollars. His philanthropic peers John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie gave respectively $550 million and $350 million.\n\nHarkness encouraged and orchestrated the merger of Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, creating Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center (CPMC), the world's first academic medical center.\n\nThe campus was built in the 1920s on the site of Hilltop Park, the one-time home stadium of the New York Yankees, which Harkness purchased and donated. Despite his aversion to have anything named for himself, The Edward Harkness Eye Institute was named by relatives.\n\nIn 1997, Columbia-Presbyterian merged with the New York Hospital. New York hospital had affiliated with Cornell University's Weill Cornell Medical College in the 1930s, following their lead. Now known as NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital / Columbia University Medical Center, The Harkness Pavilion, named for father Stephen, is a central part of the campus.\n\nHarkness and his mother, Anna, gave substantial sums to several important non-profit enterprises. Harkness was a major benefactor of the New York Public Library and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Harkness, in addition to donations to the Decorative Arts Department, gifted the Museum's initial Ancient Egyptian art collection. Harkness bought the complete Tomb of Perneb for the Met and helped purchase the Carnarvon Collection of Egyptian artifacts. He also donated the Met's unofficial mascot, a blue decorative hippo from the Egyptian Middle Kingdom's Twelfth Dynasty. It is known as \"William.\"\n\nIn 1917, a year after Charles' death, Anna Harkness donated $3 million to Yale University to build the Memorial Quadrangle student dormitory in Charles' memory. In 1918, Anna Harkness established the Commonwealth Fund with an initial gift of $10 million, and Harkness was made its president.\n\nHarkness and his wife made many contributions to educational buildings, including St Salvator's Hall at the University of St. Andrews; Harkness Chapel and Harkness Dormitory at Connecticut College; Butler Library at Columbia University as well as the original portions of the Columbia University Medical Center and the undergraduate dormitories at Brown University and Connecticut College - all of these were built through his philanthropy or that of his wife, Mary.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1930, Harkness made major donations to Yale and Harvard to establish residential college systems at each school. Harkness admired the colleges of Oxford and Cambridge in England and proposed to Yale President James Rowland Angell that he would fund a smiliar system for Yale's undergraduate college to relieve overcrowding and improve social intimacy. When the Yale Corporation failed to accept Harkness' offer by 1928, Harkness went to Harvard with a similar offer. Harvard's president, Abbott Lawrence Lowell, quickly accepted, and eight houses for Harvard College were completed by 1931 with a $10 million gift from Harkness. Dismayed, Yale administrators appealed to Harkness to reconsider his offer, and in 1930 he agreed to give Yale $11 million for nine residential colleges of its own. Harkness persuaded Yale to retain his friend James Gamble Rogers as the colleges' architect. He also made gifts that established the Yale School of Drama, the first independent drama faculty in the country, and erected its theatre.\n\nAround the same time as his Yale-Harvard philanthropy, Harkness sought to reform the pedagogical techniques of the country's elite boarding schools. At Phillips Exeter Academy, he sought to innovate beyond rote learning by introducing the Harkness table method of instruction. Through further gifts, the method spread to St. Paul’s, The Lawrenceville School, and Kingswood-Oxford School. Harkness also made gifts to Taft School, The Hill School and Phillips Academy.\n\nHe established the Harkness Fellowships and founded the Pilgrim Trust in the UK in 1930 with an endowment of just over two million pounds, \"prompted by his admiration for what Great Britain had done in the 1914-18 war and, by his ties of affection for the land from which he drew his descent.\" The current priorities of the trust are preservation, places of worship, and social welfare.\n\nEdward and Mary Harkness had a number of homes in addition to Harkness House in New York. They spent summers at their Eolia mansion on Long Island Sound in Waterford, Connecticut, near where Mary had visited her grandparents in the summers. The home and of ornamental gardens and grounds are now maintained by the State of Connecticut as Harkness Memorial State Park.\n\nThey also owned another house on Long Island in Manhasset, New York on 186 acres called \"Weekend,\" designed by architect James Gamble Rogers, plus houses in North Carolina and California, and a camp in the Adirondacks. They also spent time at the Jekyll Island Club in Georgia and Yeamans Hall outside of Charleston, SC - another James Gamble Rogers golf and winter community.\n\nHe is buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, New York City, which is today a National Historic Landmark. The Harkness family mausoleum is stately and includes a privately walled and locked garden. The mausoleum does not have any name at all on it noting who is buried inside. The architecture of the mausoleum evokes that of a small medieval church \n\nHarkness was honored with a three-page spread in the Yale Banner and Pot Pourri published by the Yale Class of 1940 for his contributions to the University in particular and the world at large.\n\nIn addition to the family funded foundations, Harkness (along with another wealthy neighbor, Edward Crowninshield Hammond) was the inspiration for Eugene O'Neill's off-stage character \"Harker\", the \"Standard Oil millionaire\", in \"Long Day's Journey into Night\", and on-stage figure \"T. Stedman Harder\" in \"A Moon for the Misbegotten\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3891448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3891448", "title": "Eka Tjipta Widjaja", "text": "Eka Tjipta Widjaja\n\nEka Tjipta Widjaja (, born Oei Ėk-Tjhong; ; born in Quanzhou, Fujian, China) is the founder of the Sinar Mas Group, which was one of the largest conglomerates during the Indonesian New Order period. His flagship bank, BII or Bank International Indonesia, bankrolled many of his other ventures that made him at one time the king of copra.\n\nEka Tjipta Widjaja was born Oei Ek Tjhong in 1921 in Quanzhou, Fujian (Fukien) Province, China. He was the son of a Sulawesi (Celebes)-based trader. He moved to Indonesia when he was 9 years old, and started selling biscuits at 17.\n\nMr. Widjaja received his honorary Doctorate degree in Economics from Pittsburg State University.\n\nHe has since retired from the limelight and handed his business over to his children, in particular Indra, Teguh and Franky and grandson Eric Oei Kang, who headed up the Hong Kong-listed construction company Creator Holdings. Hong Kong Creator Holdings is now one of Hong Kong's most well known and prominent companies, with many projects in Asia. Widjaja's second son, Singapore tycoon Oei Hong Leong, is one of Southeast Asia's richest men, ranked by Forbes Magazine as #37, with a net worth of US$355 million.\n\nWidjaja bought a Beverly Hills mansion in 2009 from Donald Trump for $9.5 million.\n\nWidjaja was married with two wives. He was legally married to Trini Dewi Lasuki who helped him build sinarmas from nothing.\n\nThe Sinar Mas Group also owns Asia Pulp & Paper, a company that was involved in Asia's worst ever corporate default. In March 2001, two months after being threatened with delisting from the NYSE, APP stopped paying its global US$13.9 billion debt, considered to be the largest debt default in the world's emerging markets.\n\nAPP has also been convicted of being involved in illegal logging in Cambodia, Yunnan Province, China, destroying ancient rainforest and the illegal felling of over 50 thousand acres (200 km²) of forest in Bukit Tigapuluh national park.\n\n"}
{"id": "55181929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55181929", "title": "Ervin G. Bailey", "text": "Ervin G. Bailey\n\nErvin George Bailey (December 25, 1880 – December 18, 1974) was an American mechanical engineer, founding president of Bailey Meter Company, manufacturer of industrial meters and controls, and inventor. He was recipient of the 1942 ASME Medal, and served as 67th president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.\n\nBailey was born in Damascus, Ohio as son of George W. Bailey and Ruthetta (Butler) Bailey He obtained his MSc in Mechanical Engineering from the Ohio State University in 1903. After his graduation he started his career at the Fairmont Coal Company in Fairmont, West Virginia as test engineer. In 1907 to 1909 he was head of the coal department of Arthur D. Little Inc. in Boston, and from 1909 to 1915 mechanical engineer and partner in the Fuel Testing Corporation in Boston. In 1916 he founded the Bailey Meter Company in Boston, which he moved to Cleveland, Ohio in 1919. The Bailey Meter Company grew out to a major manufacturer of industrial meters and controls.\n\nBailey obtained 141 patents for his inventions. Among the many engineering honors he received, the Franklin Institute awarded him the Longstreth Award in 1930, the ASME the ASME Medal in 1942, and the American Association of Engineering Societies the John Fritz Medal in 1952. Bailey served as president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in the year 1948-49.\n\n"}
{"id": "3650487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3650487", "title": "Fair Credit Billing Act", "text": "Fair Credit Billing Act\n\nThe Fair Credit Billing Act (FCBA) is a United States federal law enacted in 1974 as an amendment to the Truth in Lending Act (codified at et seq.). Its purpose is to protect consumers from unfair billing practices and to provide a mechanism for addressing billing errors in \"open end\" credit accounts, such as credit card or charge card accounts.\n\nThe following are examples of billing errors under the FCBA:\n\n\nThe FCBA allows consumers to dispute billing errors by sending a written notice of the dispute to the creditor. To trigger duties under the Act, a person must send a written dispute via mail to the \"billing inquiries\" address on their credit card statement, not the address for sending payments. This dispute must be received by the creditor within sixty days of the statement date on the account statement that first contained the billing error. Notice given by telephone is not sufficient to trigger the protections of the FCBA; a consumer can only protect their rights under the Act by sending a written notice, or online if the creditor indicates to consumers that it will accept notices electronically. Banks may accept disputes by phone while warning their customers that phone complaints do not preserve the customer's rights under the Act. This often leads to a chargeback to the vendor.\n\nAfter receiving notice of a dispute, the credit issuer must acknowledge the dispute within thirty days, investigate the claim and, within ninety days, either make appropriate corrections to the account or send a letter to the consumer explaining why the creditor believes there was no error. If the creditor responds that they believe there was no error, the consumer can request copies of documentation supporting the validity of the disputed items.\n\nIn addition to creating a mechanism for dealing with billing errors, the FCBA contains additional regulations, including the following:\n\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission is the \"overall enforcing agency\" for purposes of administrative enforcement, though compliance by banks is enforced under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.\n\nA consumer may also file a private lawsuit in any state or federal court with jurisdiction over the parties to recover actual damages, statutory damages of double the erroneous finance charge(s), and his or her costs and attorney fees (if the claim is successful). If the alleged unlawful conduct is widespread, the consumer can also seek to file a class action suit and seek damages up to the lesser of $500,000 or 1 per centum of the net worth of the creditor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32392391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32392391", "title": "Female Entrepreneur Association", "text": "Female Entrepreneur Association\n\nThe Female Entrepreneur Association (FEA) is one of the largest networks of female entrepreneurs in the world, with over 500,000 women involved globally.\n\nFounded by Carrie Green in 2011, the Female Entrepreneur Association was created with the mission of inspiring and empowering women from around the world. \n\nThe Female Entrepreneur Association has been globally recognised in the media on television, print and radio including: \"BBC News\", \"The Daily Telegraph\", \"Entrepreneur.com\", \"BBC Radio 4 Woman's Hour\", \"LBC Radio\" and \"Glamour\" magazine to name a few. \n\nFEA is a global company based in England.\n\nThe FEA website is an online hub for female entrepreneurs to connect, share experiences, stories, tips and advice, motivate and inspire each other and promote their businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "5915101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5915101", "title": "Franco Belgiorno-Nettis", "text": "Franco Belgiorno-Nettis\n\nFranco Belgiorno-Nettis (20 June 1915 – 8 July 2006) was an Australian industrialist and patron of the arts. He founded the construction and engineering company Transfield and also helped establish the Australian Biennale subsequently known as the Biennale of Sydney.\n\nBelgiorno-Nettis was born in Cassano delle Murge in the Province of Bari in Apulia, Italy in 1915 and attended the Turin Military Academy before joining the Italian army and serving in North Africa during World War II. He spent 3 years at an allied POW camp in India. After the war he returned to Italy to complete his studies in engineering at the University of Turin. In 1951 he came to Australia as the employee of Italian engineering firm Electric Power Transmission, (an offshoot of Milan-based Societa' Anonima Elettrificazione), which was constructing powerlines.\n\nFranco Belgiorno-Nettis and Amina Cerino-Zegna wed by proxy in 1951 – Belgiorno-Nettis' brother represented him at the altar of Turin Cathedral for the marriage. Amina soon after joined her husband in Australia, and their three sons, Marco Belgiorno-Zegna, Luca Belgiorno-Nettis and Guido Belgiorno-Nettis, were born between 1953 and 1959.\n\nIn 1956 he and his professional partner, Carlo Salteri, set up Transfield which became the largest construction and engineering firm in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nHe was also prominent as a patron of the arts. In 1961 he set up the Transfield Art Prize. He also helped to found the Biennale of Sydney in 1973.\n\nFranco Belgiorno-Nettis died in 2006 aged 91 either after a fall while on holiday in Italy, and/or of a terminal brain stroke while attending to home maintenance in Italy.\n\n\nHis portrait was among the 2004 Archibald Prize finalists.(Copyright image)\n\n"}
{"id": "8870307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8870307", "title": "Gallahadion", "text": "Gallahadion\n\nGallahadion (March 31, 1937 – July 7, 1958) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse best known as the 1940 winner of the Kentucky Derby. He was a son of the Champion sire Sir Gallahad III, and his damsire was U.S. Horse of the Year Reigh Count, who won the 1928 Kentucky Derby. Owned by Ethel V. Mars' Milky Way Farm Stable, named for her company's famous chocolate bar brand, Gallahadion raced at age three in California. Although he was unplaced in the Santa Anita Derby and the San Juan Capistrano Handicap, after winning the 1940 San Vicente Stakes and finishing second in the Derby Trial, Gallahadion was entered in the Kentucky Derby.\n\nIn the Kentucky Derby, Edward R. Bradley's colt Bimelech, the 1939 U.S. 2-Year-Old Champion, was the overwhelming favorite, bet down to 40¢ on the dollar. Mioland, owned by Charles S. Howard of Seabiscuit fame, was a very distant second choice at more than 6:1 odds. Given almost no chance, Gallahadion was sent off as a 36:1 longshot but under jockey Carroll Bierman scored an upset over Bimelech. For owner Ethel V. Mars, whom TIME magazine reported had been spending more money on horses than any other American racehorse owner, Gallahadion was her eighth horse to run in the Derby in the past six years. Previously, Mrs. Mars' best results came in 1935 and 1937 when her horses finished third. A severe cold kept her at home and she was not at Churchill Downs to see her horse capture the one race she had wanted to win most of all. In the second and third legs of the U.S. Triple Crown, Bimelech won both races. Gallahadion finished third in the Preakness Stakes, then found the extra distance in the 1½ mile Belmont Stakes too much and was unplaced.\n\nDuring the remainder of 1940, Gallahadion met with little success, as he did the following year when he raced at age four.\n\n"}
{"id": "44518478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44518478", "title": "Guillermo Coppola", "text": "Guillermo Coppola\n\nGuillermo Coppola is an Argentine businessman. He was born in Buenos Aires in 1948. He worked as the agent of over two hundred football players, and eventually became the agent of Diego Maradona. His relation with Maradona turned him into a famous television personality. He is the TV host of \"Yo, Guillermo\" in Canal 5 Noticias. He wrote an autobiography, \"Guillote\", published by Planeta, that became a best-seller in just 2 weeks.\n"}
{"id": "51400432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51400432", "title": "Harry Zakour", "text": "Harry Zakour\n\nHarry Zakour is a Lebanese born Ghana based businessman and former association football administrator. He is Second Vice Chairman of National Democratic Congress (2016) and owner of Montie FM's transmitting frequency.\n"}
{"id": "38915703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38915703", "title": "Healthcare Real Estate Capital", "text": "Healthcare Real Estate Capital\n\nHealthcare Real Estate Capital, LLC (\"HRE Capital\") is an American firm providing consultative and transaction oriented services to owners and operators of healthcare real estate. The company's client base includes healthcare providers (hospitals, health systems, physician practices, etc.) and investor / developers. HRE Capital's services include monetization / dispositions, debt and equity raise, joint venture structuring and developer selection for both standalone and multi-asset portfolios. Over the past three years, the company has completed over $2 billion in engagements across 18 states.\n\nHRE Capital was founded in 2007 by E. Hunter Beebe and has four offices positioned across the United States. Prior to HRE Capital, Mr. Beebe spent six years with a boutique real estate investment bank and was a founding member of its real estate practice. Mr. Beebe began his career with Ernst & Young Kenneth Leventhal's National Real Estate Capital Markets Group.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39555391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39555391", "title": "Henry Tucker (Sherbro)", "text": "Henry Tucker (Sherbro)\n\nHenry Tucker was the most powerful merchant in Sherbro, Sierra Leone in the eighteenth century. \n\nHe was one of the Sherbro Tuckers and ruled at Bahol.\n"}
{"id": "44840818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44840818", "title": "Hélène Pastor", "text": "Hélène Pastor\n\nHélène Pastor (1937 – 21 May 2014) was an heiress, businesswoman and the richest woman in Monaco, \"the senior surviving member of what is, in effect, Monaco’s second dynasty after the ruling Grimaldis\". She was murdered in May 2014.\n\nHélène Pastor was born in 1937. Her father, Gildo Pastor, was an heir and businessman. Her paternal grandfather, Jean-Baptiste Pastor, was an Italian builder who moved to Monaco in the 1880s.\n\nShe grew up in Monaco with her two brothers, Michel Pastor and Victor Pastor.\n\nShe was the owner of Helene Pastor Pallanca SAM, a real estate company. She owned Le Bahia and Émilie Palace in the Larvotto district, the Trocadero, Continental and Le Schuylkill apartment buildings, and the Gildo Pastor Center in the Fontvieille district. They were worth US$3.7 billion.\n\nShe was the richest woman in Monaco. Most of her wealth came from collecting rent. In its obituary, \"The Daily Telegraph\" called her \"the senior surviving member of what is, in effect, Monaco’s second dynasty after the ruling Grimaldis\". She was known in Monaco as \"La Vice Princesse\" (English: \"The Vice Princess\").\n\nShe was married twice. With her first husband, she had a daughter, Sylvia Pastor, born in 1961, who lived with Wojciech Janowski, a Polish-born businessman, for 28 years.\n\nShe then married Claude Pallanca, a dentist. They had a son, Gildo Pallanca Pastor, born in 1967.\n\nOn 6 May 2014, she walked out of the L'Archet Hospital in western Nice, France, where she was visiting her son, and into her chauffeured car. Minutes later, a gunman fired at her car, hitting her chauffeur and herself. She was rushed to the Saint Roch hospital in central Nice. She woke up from her coma on 16 May, but died on 21 May 2014 at the Hospital St Roch in Nice. She was seventy-seven years old.\n\nUpon her death, the Prince's Palace of Monaco released a statement saying, \"HSH the Prince expresses his deep compassion to the children of Mrs Hélène Pastor-Pallanca at the announcement of her tragic passing.\" Her funeral was attended by Albert II, Prince of Monaco.\n\nChristian Estrosi, the Mayor of Nice, released the following statement, \"My thoughts go out to Gildo, Hélène Pastor’s son, as well as all of her relatives. I share their pain and grief. My thoughts also go out to all the Monégasques who were devastated by this tragedy.\"\n\nIn June 2014, her son-in-law, Wojciech Janowski, admitted to being involved with her assassination. In 2017, Janowski and nine more individuals, including fitness trainer Pascal Dauriac and his brother-in-law Abdelkader Belkhatir, were summoned to court over for a trial.\n"}
{"id": "32313475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32313475", "title": "Inter-municipal cooperation", "text": "Inter-municipal cooperation\n\nInter-municipal cooperation (IMC) is a generic term for all joint provision of public services between municipalities, who are normally but not necessarily neighbours.\n\nMunicipalities are elements of administration and have a history of several hundred years in Europe. One speaks of IMC when two or more municipalities work together to provide a public service, where cooperation ranges from coordinated behaviour to joint ventures. As territorial consolidation often fails because of political resistance, inter-municipal cooperation is a way to keep public services efficient and effective without territorial consolidation. However, IMC can have high failure rates when coordination problems between municipalities in steering and monitoring cannot be resolved.\n\nCooperation of municipalities is a contemporary phenomenon. A historic example of inter-municipal cooperation is the Hanseatic League, created by municipalities in Northern Europe and lasted from the 13th to the 17th century. Following the Industrial Revolution, as cities grew rapidly and the requirements concerning public services increased, inter-municipal cooperation became increasingly popular. While cooperation was initially without obligation, with the beginning of the 20th century IMC was increasingly legally codified.\n\nIMC is used to increase efficiency and effectiveness in providing public services. The joint financing and operating of these services can cut costs and achieve economies of scale and scope, which becomes increasingly important in smaller and more rural municipalities. IMC can also allow capital investment that would be unaffordable otherwise, and eliminates duplicate efforts. A major advantage in Europe is that the European Union is providing incentives for municipal partnerships.\n\nThe most important barrier for inter-municipal cooperation is lack of trust or coordination between the partners, and if these cannot be overcome, failure rates of IMC can be high. Politicians and citizens may (rightfully) fear a loss of control over the service. Besides the lack of trust, the often complicated legal structure of IMC can be a barrier. Citizens may also worry that cooperation is a step towards consolidation or amalgamation.\n\nCoordinated behaviour is the lowest level of inter-municipal cooperation. Both entry and exit are voluntary and non-binding. Typical examples for coordinated behaviour are combined strategies for tourist development.\n\nPublic contracts are more binding than a coordinated behaviour. The costs for the formation of this cooperation are low as only the legal consulting may result noteworthy costs. However, failure rates can be high when contracts are incomplete. This kind of cooperation is typically chosen when the service is similar for each of the participants, like one town settles the snow plowing service for one or more other towns and receives a certain amount of money in return. Such inter-municipal contracting is particularly common in the United States.\n\nIn this model, the participants of the intermunicipal cooperation found and own the administration unit or special district. They transfer the right to provide the public service to the newly formed unit. As well as the service, the unit will have the right to raise the fees for this service, if such fees were previously raised by the participating municipalities. As these units need clear defined rights and obligation the effort to form them is much higher, and they are not possible in all countries. Disposal services and water supply may be organised in this fashion in some countries.\n\nPrivate law units such as companies or foundations can be used as well. Some countries, so as Germany, allow the municipals the ownership of private companies only if the purpose of the company is an economical not a public service. The easiest way to form a company by private law is the private limited company. It is easy and fast to found and the liability is limited to the assets of the company. However, while research shows such cooperation can be effective and efficient, the complexity of contracts in such arrangements can also lead to high failure rates.\n\nTo organise an intermunicipal cooperation with a public law unit such as a public limited company is one of the least used possibilities. Although the PLC shares the advantages of the Private Limited like limited liability the higher administration and financial effort makes the PLC rather unattractive for IMC. Besides that the PLC is often very difficult to control by the owners what rules is almost out for IMC. Just like private limited companies, public limited companies may have a high complexity of contracts that can also lead to high failure rates.\n\nThe phases to implement an IMC can be divided in up to 14 phases. Usually it is enough to distinguish four phases: the analysis of the needs, the analysis of the effects, the implementation and the evaluation.\n\nAt first one has to perform a needs assessment to find the areas in which IMC can benefit the participants. What is needed is an exact specification of the goals the IMC should achieve. The parties have to realize what they want and make sure that the partner has similar goals. Especially in the area of public services, where there is a constant dialogue with citizens about these services, it is important to make the process and the goals as transparent as possible. Citizens can be involved in the process of forming the IMC by using workshops or panel discussions.\n\nAfter that, a feasibility study is needed to analyse the economic, operational and administrative efforts and benefits. If the service to be organised as an IMC already exists, it needs to be exactly specified. All the facts flow into the negotiation of the agreement, whether it is a contract, an administrative unit or a private company. At this point the involved parties should be clear about the form of financing the IMC. It can be advisable to seek legal advice as IMC can become legally very difficult in some countries.\n\nWhen everything is fixed in contracts the participants can start to realise the project. As well as in the first phase of the IMC implementation it is important to communicate the process to all involved parties. Especially when problems arise, transparent behaviour is needed to sustain trust between the involved parties.\n\nAfter the successful implementation of the project, the parties should negotiate certain progress of improvement an adjustment to changing environmental conditions. It is advisable to establish the “change management” in the contract between the involved parties. There should be a periodical evaluation of the IMC so that changed prerequisites will be noticed.\n\nBy a framework decree of 2001, inter-municipal cooperation was reformed by the Flemish Government. A variety of forms of inter-municipal cooperation were legally implemented. Beside that certain elements of supervision were implemented, to ensure control by the municipal councils. The framework insists on the \"purity\" of IMC, so municipalities shall be involved primarily.\n\nEspecially in the thinly populated Finland inter-municipal cooperation has been an effective tool to ensure public services at reasonable cost. Finnish local governments are self-governing with a large variety of responsibilities. Due to this fact the services provided by the municipals are numerous. Even service competition between municipals is quite common in Finland.\n\nFrance was long time mainly governed by a central state. Within the last century the municipals gained more and more autonomy. Nevertheless inter-municipal is often performed on voluntary basis. As discussing about territorial consolidation is politically hazardous in France, IMC becomes more and more important to maintain public services at reasonable costs.\n\nInter-municipal cooperation has a long history in Germany. In the administrative system of Germany (State, Federal States, Communities) the municipals have to finance their services themselves. Therefore municipals have a natural interest in providing public services efficiently.\n\nIn contrast to other European Countries local governments are highly restricted in the United Kingdom. Therefore inter-municipal cooperation is not that common in the UK. Although municipalities have the authority to perform public services they often do not have the possibility to raise additional fees.\n\nThere are 39,000 local governments United States and 22,000 have under 2,500 inhabitants. Besides providing public services themselves, municipalities in the USA have used privatization (contracting out) and cooperation with neighbouring municipalities for a long period of time. Cooperation is used to maintain independent identities and still achieve economies of scale. Most of the cooperative ventures are single-function (education, water, housing, transport).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1107835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107835", "title": "Jack Trout", "text": "Jack Trout\n\nJohn Francis \"Jack\" Trouts (January 31, 1935 – June 4, 2017) was an owner of Trout & Partners, a consulting firm. He was one of the founders and pioneers of positioning theory and also marketing warfare theory.\n\nTrout started his business career in the advertising department of General Electric. From there he went on to become a divisional advertising manager at Uniroyal. Then he joined Al Ries in the advertising agency and marketing strategy firm where they worked together for over twenty-six years.\n\nHe was the founder and president of the international marketing strategy firm \"Trout and Partners\". The firm is represented in offices in many countries worldwide including emerging markets. Trout worked with a number of different client companies, including AT&T, Apple, Citicorp, General Electric, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Southwest Airlines and Xerox. When working with pizza chain Papa John's, Trout was majorly involved in the invention of the chain's slogan \"better ingredients, better pizza\".\n\nIn the fall of 2002, Trout began working with the United States Department of State in order to \"train new diplomats in the art of projecting a positive image of America overseas\" as a part of the \"Brand America\" campaign, which sought to improve public opinion about the upcoming Iraq War.\n\nTrout died of intestinal cancer at his home in Old Greenwich, Connecticut, at the age of 82.\n\n\nWith Steve Rivkin\n\nWith Al Ries\n"}
{"id": "50063601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50063601", "title": "Joachim Posener", "text": "Joachim Posener\n\nJoachim Ralph Posener, (born 17 January 1964 in Lidingö) is a Swedish financier and author. Posener is a lawyer by educated who was active in the Swedish finance trade from the late 1980s to the end of the 1990s. He became publicly known in November 1997 after having been accused by the media as being the mastermind behind Lord Moynes acquisition of the Swedish publicly traded company Trustor AB. The company acquisition, which later become known as the Trustor affair eventually ended with one of Lord Moynes \"Team\" members, Thomas Jisander, being sent to a prison term. When Swedish police acted against Lord Moyne and his \"team\" in October 1997 Posener happened to be abroad, and he chose then according to his own statements to not return to Sweden. This became very well publicized in Swedish media and also led to Posener being hand down an international arrest warrant. According to his own statements he was at first for some time in Spain, and later he is supposed to have lived in Argentina. In spite of the International Arrest Warrant Posener was never found by the police and the crimes the police had suspected him of were no longer actionable against Mr Posener due to the Swedish law on statute of limitations. No one of Lord Moynes \"team\" could be accused in any court of law with regard to the Trustor Affair after the 20 June 2007.\n\nJoachim Posener has not been found guilty of any crime in connection with the Trustor Affair and the police have no longer any interest in him as of 2009. With regard to any economic relationship between Posener and Trustor AB the two parties settled out of court in 2007, a settlement that among other things had Posener pay 1.5 million SEK to Trustor AB.\n\nTwo and a half years later, in December 2009, Swedish police and State prosecutor Bernt Berger met with Joachim Posener and Posener's Swedish attorney Leif Gustafson, at Posener's own request at the Swedish embassy in Belgium. The meeting came to be because Posener wished to be interrogated by police so the last criminal charges against him could be written off. The question was if Posener had the right to under the existing legal circumstances in which he found himself in 2004 published the book \"Internationellt Efterlyst – Mitt liv efter Trustor\". And also for appearing in a Swedish TV-interview with the show 45 Minuter hosted by Renée Nyberg and broadcast on TV3 to talk about his case. Shortly after the meeting in Brussels Bernt Berger wrote off all remaining suspicions against Posener and therefore, since 2009, there exist no remaining suspicions of wrongdoing by Joachim Posener.\n"}
{"id": "17289996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17289996", "title": "List of owners of English football clubs", "text": "List of owners of English football clubs\n\nThis is a list of the current owners of English football clubs, as well as (in some cases) their estimated net worth and source of wealth. All figures are listed in rather than billions. example, £1,000m would be one billion (1,000,000,000) pounds. Only shareholders with a significant interest (above 10%) are listed.\n\n"}
{"id": "38508413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38508413", "title": "Made in Britain (campaign)", "text": "Made in Britain (campaign)\n\nMade in Britain is a not-for-profit organisation that supports British manufacturers under a single marque. The marque represents a standard of quality and unity for the British manufacturing sector within the UK and around the world.\n\nThe organisation works closely with the UK government and other groups to support skilled jobs and encourage creativity and sustainable growth. It campaigns all year round for British manufacturing.\n\nMade in Britain first began as the Made in Britain campaign in 2011. This campaign was established by Stoves – a Prescot-based cooker manufacturer.\n\nStoves commissioned independent market research using 1,000 adults to discover the public’s opinion on British manufacturing – and whether it actually made a difference to people’s buying habits. From the study, 55% said that supporting UK manufacturing and jobs was their main incentive to buy British and 36% claimed to buy British whenever they can.\n\nFollowing the research, Stoves launched a competition to design a logo for the newly established campaign. The winner was Cynthia Lee, a student designer from the University of Nottingham. On 11 July 2011, the accreditation marque was unveiled and British businesses were invited to apply to use the logo for the first time.\n\nAfter receiving support from the Labour Party and with over 600 members on board, a new Made in Britain marque was commissioned in May 2013. The new design was finalised in June 2013 and Made in Britain was officially launched as an independent, non-profit organisation in December 2013.\n\nFollowing the successful launch of Made in Britain as a not-for-profit organisation, a board of members was established. This is made up of volunteer members of Made in Britain, and leadership from other groups that support British design, trade and industry.\n\nThe current board members are: \nIn April 2015, the campaign employed John Pearce as a full-time Chief Executive Officer. John joined the Made in Britain Campaign from the GREAT Britain Campaign, the government's overseas business, tourism and education initiative.\n\nAfter it was commissioned by the board, the second iteration of the Made in Britain marque was created and designed by Kevin Lan and Miranda Bolter at The Partners. Inspired by a corner of the Union Jack, the marque is designed to be instantly recognisable as the Made in Britain organisation.\n\nWhen businesses join Made in Britain as a member they get access to the Made in Britain marque to use on their products, packaging and marketing material.\n\nFlexible in size and scope, it’s used by a huge number of businesses in a number of industries. From large-scale industrial products and vehicles down to independently manufactured textiles, the marque is clear indicator of the diversity of British manufacturing.\n\nMembers often use the marque alongside their ISO9000, BSI accreditations and the Queen’s Award for Export symbol.\n\nThe biggest appeal of the Made in Britain organisation is that it celebrates the diverse nature of British manufacturing. To join the organisation and have use of the marque, businesses must become members of Made in Britain.\n\nWhen members join, they fall into a set category type:\n\n\nTo prove their eligibility, companies must be transparent in their claims and display supporting information about their manufacturing process and policies.\n\nAfter joining, members are put into tiers depending on the financial turnover of the organisation – from T1 organisations (£1m per annum) to T4 organisations (>£30m per annum). T4 organisations include Vauxhall that use the Made in Britain marque on its range of Vivaro vans. Rory Harvey, Vauxhall’s Chairman and Managing Director, said: “We are very proud of our 113-year heritage of building vehicles in Britain, and being part of this campaign is a great way to communicate this.”“The Made in Britain campaign does a brilliant job of reminding customers that we have a highly-skilled workforce on our doorstep, producing thousands of high quality products.”T3 and T2 organisations include Roman Showers and Fracino – you’ll find the Made in Britain marque featured on a large number of products.\n\nVelopresso is an example of a T1 organisation that has used the Made in Britain marque as a way to communicate its commitment to British manufacture. “For us, the Made in Britain marque testifies not only to the provenance of Velopresso, but also to the strong relationships we’ve built with all those involved in its design and manufacture.”\n\nMade in Britain is working to help Crown Commercial Service to identify UK manufacturers that are keen to sell to local authorities and the UK government – either for the first time or to increase their sales.\n"}
{"id": "147995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147995", "title": "Marvin Gaye", "text": "Marvin Gaye\n\nMarvin Pentz Gaye (born Gay Jr.; April 2, 1939 – April 1, 1984) was an American singer, songwriter and record producer. Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown in the 1960s, first as an in-house session player and later as a solo artist with a string of hits, including \"Ain't That Peculiar\", \"How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)\" and \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", and duet recordings with Mary Wells, Kim Weston, Diana Ross and Tammi Terrell, later earning the titles \"Prince of Motown\" and \"Prince of Soul\".\n\nDuring the 1970s, he recorded the albums \"What's Going On\" and \"Let's Get It On\" and became one of the first artists in Motown (joint with Stevie Wonder) to break away from the reins of a production company. His later recordings influenced several contemporary R&B subgenres, such as quiet storm and neo soul. Following a period in Europe as a tax exile in the early 1980s, he released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit \"Sexual Healing\" and its parent album \"Midnight Love\".\n\nOn April 1, 1984, Gaye's father, Marvin Gay Sr., fatally shot him at their house in the West Adams district of Los Angeles. Since his death, many institutions have posthumously bestowed Gaye with awards and other honors—including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame, the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nGaye was born Marvin Pentz Gay Jr. on April 2, 1939, at Freedman's Hospital in Washington, D.C., to church minister Marvin Gay Sr., and domestic worker Alberta Gay (née Cooper). His first home was in a public housing project, the Fairfax Apartments (now demolished) at 1617 1st Street SW in the Southwest Waterfront neighborhood. Although one of the city's oldest neighborhoods, with many elegant Federal-style homes, Southwest was primarily a vast slum. Most buildings were small, in extensive disrepair, and lacked both electricity and running water. The alleys were full of one- and two-story shacks, and nearly every dwelling was overcrowded. Gaye and his friends nicknamed the area \"Simple City\", owing to its being \"half-city, half country\".\n\nGaye was the second oldest of the couple's four children. He had two sisters, Jeanne and Zeola, and one brother, Frankie Gaye. He also had two half-brothers: Michael Cooper, his mother's son from a previous relationship, and Antwaun Carey Gay, born as a result of his father's extramarital affairs.\n\nGaye started singing in church when he was four years old; his father often accompanied him on piano. Gaye and his family were part of a Pentecostal church known as the House of God. The House of God took its teachings from Hebrew Pentecostalism, advocated strict conduct, and adhered to both the Old and New Testaments. Gaye developed a love of singing at an early age and was encouraged to pursue a professional music career after a performance at a school play at 11 singing Mario Lanza's \"Be My Love\". His home life consisted of \"brutal whippings\" by his father, who struck him for any shortcoming. The young Gaye described living in his father's house as similar to \"...living with a king, a very peculiar, changeable, cruel, and all powerful king.\" He felt that had his mother not consoled him and encouraged his singing, he would have killed himself. His sister later explained that Gaye was beaten often, from age seven well into his teenage years.\n\nGaye attended Syphax Elementary School and then Randall Junior High School. Gaye began to take singing much more seriously in junior high, and he joined and became a singing star with the Randall Junior High Glee Club.\n\nIn 1953 or 1954, the Gays moved into the East Capitol Dwellings public housing project in D.C.'s Capitol View neighborhood. Their townhouse apartment (Unit 12, 60th Street NE; now demolished) was Marvin's home until 1962.\n\nGaye briefly attended Spingarn High School before transferring to Cardozo High School. At Cardozo, Gaye joined several doo-wop vocal groups, including the Dippers and the D.C. Tones. Gaye's relationship with his father worsened during his teenage years, as his father would kick him out of the house often. In 1956, 17-year-old Gaye dropped out of high school and enlisted in the United States Air Force as a basic airman. Disappointed in having to perform menial tasks, he faked mental illness and was discharged shortly afterwards. Gaye's sergeant stated that he refused to follow orders. Gaye was issued a \"General Discharge\" from the service. \n\nFollowing his return, Gaye and his good friend Reese Palmer formed the vocal quartet The Marquees. The group performed in the D.C. area and soon began working with Bo Diddley, who assigned the group to Columbia subsidiary OKeh Records after failing to get the group signed to his own label, Chess. The group's sole single, \"Wyatt Earp\" (co-written by Bo Diddley), failed to chart and the group was soon dropped from the label. Gaye began composing music during this period.\n\nMoonglows co-founder Harvey Fuqua later hired The Marquees as employees. Under Fuqua's direction, the group changed its name to Harvey and the New Moonglows, and relocated to Chicago. The group recorded several sides for Chess in 1959, including the song \"Mama Loocie\", which was Gaye's first lead vocal recording. The group found work as session singers for established acts such as Chuck Berry, singing on the hits \"Back in the U.S.A.\" and \"Almost Grown\".\n\nIn 1960, the group disbanded. Gaye relocated to Detroit with Fuqua where he signed with Tri-Phi Records as a session musician, playing drums on several Tri-Phi releases. Gaye performed at Motown president Berry Gordy's house during the holiday season in 1960. Impressed by the singer, Gordy sought Fuqua on his contract with Gaye. Fuqua agreed to sell part of his interest in his contract with Gaye. Shortly afterwards, Gaye signed with Motown subsidiary Tamla.\n\nWhen Gaye signed with Tamla, he pursued a career as a performer of jazz music and standards, having no desire to become an R&B performer. Before the release of his first single, Gaye was teased about his surname, with some jokingly asking, \"Is Marvin Gay?\" Gaye changed the spelling of his surname by adding an \"e\", in the same way as did Sam Cooke. Author David Ritz wrote that Gaye did this to silence rumors of his sexuality, and to put more distance between himself and his father.\n\nGaye released his first single, \"Let Your Conscience Be Your Guide\", in May 1961, with the album \"The Soulful Moods of Marvin Gaye\", following a month later. Gaye's initial recordings failed commercially and he spent most of 1961 performing session work as a drummer for artists such as The Miracles, The Marvelettes and blues artist Jimmy Reed for $5 (US$ in dollars) a week. While Gaye took some advice on performing with his eyes open (having been accused of appearing as though he were sleeping), he refused to attend grooming school courses at the John Roberts Powers School for Social Grace in Detroit because of his unwillingness to comply with its orders, something he later regretted.\n\nIn 1962, Gaye found success as co-writer of the Marvelettes hit, \"Beechwood 4-5789\". His first solo hit, \"Stubborn Kind of Fellow\", was later released that September, reaching No. 8 on the R&B chart and No. 46 on the Billboard Hot 100. Gaye reached the top 40 with the dance song, \"Hitch Hike\", peaking at No. 30 on the Hot 100. \"Pride and Joy\" became Gaye's first top ten single after its release in 1963.\n\nThe three singles and songs from the 1962 sessions were included on Gaye's second album, \"That Stubborn Kinda Fellow\". Starting in October of the year, Gaye performed as part of the Motortown Revue, a series of concert tours headlined at the north and south eastern coasts of the United States as part of the chitlin' circuit. A filmed performance of Gaye at the Apollo Theater took place in June 1963. Later that October, Tamla issued the live album, \"Marvin Gaye Recorded Live on Stage\". \"Can I Get a Witness\" became one of Gaye's early international hits.\n\nIn 1964, Gaye recorded a successful duet album with singer Mary Wells titled \"Together\", which reached No. 42 on the pop album chart. The album's two-sided single, including \"Once Upon a Time\" and 'What's the Matter With You Baby\", each reach the top 20. Gaye's next solo hit, \"How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved By You)\", which Holland-Dozier-Holland wrote for him, reached No. 6 on the Hot 100 and reached the top 50 in the UK. Gaye started getting television exposure around this time, on shows such as \"American Bandstand\". Also in 1964, he appeared in the concert film, \"The T.A.M.I. Show\". Gaye had two number-one R&B singles in 1965 with the Miracles–composed \"I'll Be Doggone\" and \"Ain't That Peculiar\". Both songs became million-sellers. After this, Gaye returned to jazz-derived ballads for a tribute album to the recently-deceased Nat \"King\" Cole.\nAfter scoring a hit duet, \"It Takes Two\" with Kim Weston, Gaye began working with Tammi Terrell on a series of duets, mostly composed by Ashford & Simpson, including \"Ain't No Mountain High Enough\", \"Your Precious Love\", \"Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing\" and \"You're All I Need to Get By\".\n\nIn October 1967, Terrell collapsed in Gaye's arms during a performance in Farmville, Virginia. Terrell was subsequently rushed to Farmville's Southside Community Hospital, where doctors discovered she had a malignant tumor in her brain. The diagnosis ended Terrell's career as a live performer, though she continued to record music under careful supervision. Despite the presence of hit singles such as \"Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing\" and \"You're All I Need to Get By\", Terrell's illness caused problems with recording, and led to multiple operations to remove the tumor. Gaye was reportedly devastated by Terrell's sickness and became disillusioned with the record business.\n\nOn October 6, 1968, Gaye sang the national anthem during Game 4 of the 1968 World Series, held at Tiger Stadium, in Detroit, Michigan, between the Detroit Tigers and the St. Louis Cardinals.\n\nIn late 1968, Gaye's recording of \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\" became Gaye's first to reach No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100. It also reached the top of the charts in other countries, selling over four million copies. However, Gaye felt the success was something he \"didn't deserve\" and that he \"felt like a puppet – Berry's puppet, Anna's puppet...\" Gaye followed it up with \"Too Busy Thinking About My Baby\" and \"That's the Way Love Is\", which reached the top ten on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1969. That year, his album \"M.P.G.\" became his first No. 1 R&B album. Gaye produced and co-wrote two hits for The Originals during this period, including \"Baby I'm For Real\" and \"The Bells\".\n\nTammi Terrell died from brain cancer on March 16, 1970; Gaye attended her funeral and after a period of depression, Gaye sought out a position on a professional football team, the Detroit Lions, where he later befriended Mel Farr and Lem Barney. It was eventually decided that Gaye would not be allowed to try out owing to fears of possible injuries that could have affected his music career.\n\nOn June 1, 1970, Gaye returned to Hitsville U.S.A., where he recorded his new composition \"What's Going On\", inspired by an idea from Renaldo \"Obie\" Benson of the Four Tops after he witnessed an act of police brutality at an anti-war rally in Berkeley. Upon hearing the song, Berry Gordy refused its release due to his feelings of the song being \"too political\" for radio. Gaye responded by going on strike from recording until the label released the song. Released in 1971, it reached No. 1 on the R&B charts within a month, staying there for five weeks. It also reached the top spot on Cashbox's pop chart for a week and reached No. 2 on the Hot 100 and the Record World chart, selling over two million copies.\n\nAfter giving an ultimatum to record a full album to win creative control from Motown, Gaye spent ten days recording the \"What's Going On\" album that March. Motown issued the album that May after Gaye remixed portions of the album in Hollywood. The album became Gaye's first million-selling album launching two more top ten singles, \"Mercy Mercy Me (The Ecology)\" and \"Inner City Blues\". One of Motown's first autonomous works, its theme and segue flow brought the concept album format to rhythm and blues. An AllMusic writer later cited it as \"...the most important and passionate record to come out of soul music, delivered by one of its finest voices.\" For the album, Gaye received two Grammy Award nominations and several NAACP Image Awards. The album also topped \"Rolling Stone\"s year-end list as its album of the year. Billboard magazine named Gaye \"Trendsetter of the Year\" following the album's success.\n\nIn 1971, Gaye signed a new deal with Motown worth $1 million (US$ in dollars), making it the most lucrative deal by a black recording artist at the time. Gaye first responded to the new contract with the soundtrack and subsequent score, \"Trouble Man\", released in late 1972. Around this period, he, Anna and Marvin III finally left Detroit and moved to Los Angeles permanently.\n\nIn 1973, Gaye released the \"Let's Get It On\" album. Its title track became Gaye's second No. 1 single on the Hot 100. The album subsequently stayed on the charts for two years and sold over three million copies. The album was later hailed as \"a record unparalleled in its sheer sensuality and carnal energy.\" Other singles from the album included \"Come Get to This\", which recalled Gaye's early Motown soul sound of the previous decade, while the suggestive \"You Sure Love to Ball\" reached modest success but received tepid promotion due to the song's sexually explicit content.\n\nMarvin's final duet project, \"Diana & Marvin\", with Diana Ross, garnered international success despite contrasting artistic styles. Much of the material was crafted especially for the duo by Ashford and Simpson. Responding to demand from fans and Motown, Gaye started his first tour in four years at the Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum on January 4, 1974. The performance received critical acclaim and resulted in the release of the live album, \"Marvin Gaye Live!\" and its single, a live version of \"Distant Lover\", an album track from \"Let's Get It On\".\n\nThe tour helped to enhance Gaye's reputation as a live performer. For a time, he was earning $100,000 a night (US$ in dollars) for performances. Gaye toured throughout 1974 and 1975. A renewed contract with Motown allowed Gaye to build his own custom-made recording studio.\n\nIn October 1975, Gaye gave a performance at a UNESCO benefit concert at New York's Radio City Music Hall to support UNESCO's African literacy drive, resulting in him being commended at the United Nations by then-Ambassador to Ghana Shirley Temple Black and Kurt Waldheim. Gaye's next studio album, \"I Want You\", followed in 1976 with the title track \"I Want You\" becoming a No. 1 R&B hit. That summer, Gaye embarked on his first European tour in a decade, starting off in England. In early 1977, Gaye released the live album, \"Live at the London Palladium\", which sold over two million copies thanks to the success of its studio song, \"Got to Give It Up\", which became a No. 1 hit.\n\nIn December 1978, Gaye released \"Here, My Dear\", inspired by the fallout of his first marriage to Anna Gordy. Recorded as an intent for Gaye to remit a portion of its royalties to her to receive alimony payments, it performed poorly on the charts. During that period, Gaye developed a serious dependence and addiction to cocaine and was dealing with several financial issues with the IRS. These issues led him to move to Maui, Hawaii, where he struggled to record a disco album. In 1980, Gaye went on a European tour. By the time the tour stopped, the singer relocated to London when he feared imprisonment for failure to pay back taxes, which had now reached upwards of $4.5 million (US$ in dollars).\n\nGaye then reworked \"Love Man\" from its original disco concept to another personal album invoking religion and the possible end time from a chapter in the Book of Revelation. Titling the album \"In Our Lifetime?\", Gaye worked on the album for much of 1980 in London studios such as Air and Odyssey Studios.\n\nIn the fall of that year, someone stole a master tape of a rough draft of the album from one of Gaye's traveling musicians, Frank Blair, taking the master tape to Motown's Hollywood headquarters. Motown remixed the album and released it on January 15, 1981. When Gaye learned of its release, he accused Motown of editing and remixing the album without his consent, allowing the release of an unfinished production (\"Far Cry\"), altering the album art of his request and removing the album title's question mark, muting its irony. He also accused the label of rush-releasing the album, comparing his unfinished album to an unfinished Picasso painting. Gaye then vowed not to record any more music for Motown.\n\nOn February 14, 1981, under the advice of music promoter Freddy Cousaert, Gaye relocated to Cousaert's apartment in Ostend, Belgium. While there, Gaye shied away from heavy drug use and began exercising and attending a local Ostend church, regaining personal confidence. Following several months of recovery, Gaye sought a comeback onstage, starting the short-lived \"Heavy Love Affair\" tour in England and Ostend in June–July 1981. Gaye's personal attorney Curtis Shaw would later describe Gaye's Ostend period as \"the best thing that ever happened to Marvin\". When word got around that Gaye was planning a musical comeback and an exit from Motown, CBS Urban president Larkin Arnold eventually was able to convince Gaye to sign with CBS. On March 23, 1982, Motown and CBS Records negotiated Gaye's release from Motown. The details of the contract were not revealed due to a possible negative effect on the singer's settlement to creditors from the IRS.\n\nAssigned to CBS's Columbia subsidiary, Gaye worked on his first post-Motown album titled \"Midnight Love\". The first single, \"Sexual Healing\" which was written and recorded in Ostend in his apartment, was released on September 30, 1982, and became Gaye's biggest career hit, spending a record ten weeks at No. 1 on the Hot Black Singles chart, becoming the biggest R&B hit of the 1980s according to \"Billboard\" stats. The success later translated to the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart in January 1983 where it peaked at No. 3, while the record reached international success, reaching the top spot in New Zealand and Canada and reaching the top ten on the United Kingdom's OCC singles chart, later selling over two million copies in the U.S. alone, becoming Gaye's most successful single to date. The video for the song was shot at Ostend's Casino-Kursaal.\n\n\"Sexual Healing\" won Gaye his first two Grammy Awards including Best Male R&B Vocal Performance, in February 1983, and also won Gaye an American Music Award in the R&B-soul category. \"People\" magazine called it \"America's hottest musical turn-on since Olivia Newton-John demanded we get \"Physical.\"\" \"Midnight Love\" was released to stores a day after the single's release, and was equally successful, peaking at the top ten of the \"Billboard\" 200 and becoming Gaye's eighth No. 1 album on the Top Black Albums chart, eventually selling over six million copies worldwide, three million alone in the U.S.\n\nOn February 13, 1983, Gaye sang \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" at the NBA All-Star Game at The Forum in Inglewood, California—accompanied by Gordon Banks, who played the studio tape from the stands. The following month, Gaye performed at the \"\" special. This and a May appearance on \"Soul Train\" (his third appearance on the show) became Gaye's final television performances. Gaye embarked on his final concert tour, titled the \"Sexual Healing Tour\", on April 18, 1983, in San Diego. The tour ended on August 14, 1983 at the Pacific Amphitheatre in Costa Mesa, California but was plagued by cocaine-triggered paranoia and illness. Following the concert's end, he moved into his parents' house in Los Angeles. In early 1984, \"Midnight Love\" was nominated for a Grammy in the Best Male R&B Vocal Performance category, his 12th and final nomination.\n\nAt 12:38 p.m. (PST) on April 1, 1984, while Gaye was in his bedroom, his father, Marvin Gay Sr., shot Gaye in the heart and then in his left shoulder, the latter shot taken at point-blank range. Minutes earlier, the two men had been involved in a physical altercation when Gaye intervened in a fight between his parents. The first shot proved to be fatal. Gaye was pronounced dead at 1:01 p.m. (PST) after his body arrived at California Hospital Medical Center, one day short of his 45th birthday. \n\nAfter Gaye's funeral, his body was cremated at Forest Lawn Memorial Park at the Hollywood Hills; his ashes were later scattered into the Pacific Ocean. Initially charged with first-degree murder, Gay Sr.'s charges dropped to voluntary manslaughter following a diagnosis of a brain tumor. Marvin Gay Sr. was later sentenced to a suspended six-year sentence and probation. He died at a nursing home in 1998.\n\nGaye married Berry Gordy's sister, Anna Gordy, in June 1963. The couple separated in 1973, and Anna filed for divorce in November 1975. The couple was officially divorced in 1977. Gaye later married Janis Hunter in October 1977. The couple separated in 1979, and were officially divorced in February 1981.\n\nGaye was the father of three children, Marvin III (adopted with Anna; Marvin III was the son of Denise Gordy, Anna's niece), and Nona and Frankie, whom he had with his second wife, Janis. At the time of his death, he was survived by his three children, parents, and five siblings.\n\nAs a child, Gaye's main influence was his minister father, something he later acknowledged to biographer David Ritz, and also in interviews, often mentioning that his father's sermons greatly impressed him. His first major musical influences were doo-wop groups such as The Moonglows and The Capris. Gaye's Rock & Roll Hall of Fame page lists the Capris' song, \"God Only Knows\" as \"critical to his musical awakening.\" Of the Capris' song, Gaye said, \"It fell from the heavens and hit me between the eyes. So much soul, so much hurt. I related to the story, to the way that no one except the Lord really can read the heart of lonely kids in love.\" Gaye's main musical influences were Rudy West of The Five Keys, Clyde McPhatter, Ray Charles and Little Willie John. Gaye considered Frank Sinatra a major influence in what he wanted to be. He also was influenced by the vocal styles of Billy Eckstine and Nat King Cole.\n\nLater on as his Motown career developed, Gaye would seek inspiration in fellow label mates such as David Ruffin of The Temptations and Levi Stubbs of the Four Tops as their grittier voices led to Gaye and his producer seeking a similar sound in recordings such as \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\" and \"That's the Way Love Is\". Later in his life, Gaye reflected on the influence of Ruffin and Stubbs stating, \"I had heard something in their voices something my own voice lacked\". He further explained, \"the Tempts and Tops' music made me remember that when a lot of women listen to music, they want to feel the power of a real man.\"\n\nGaye had a four-octave vocal range. From his earlier recordings as member of the Marquees and Harvey and the New Moonglows, and in his first several recordings with Motown, Gaye recorded mainly in the baritone and tenor ranges. He changed his tone to a rasp for his gospel-inspired early hits such as \"Stubborn Kind of Fellow\" and \"Hitch Hike\". As writer Eddie Holland explained, \"He was the only singer I have ever heard known to take a song of that nature, that was so far removed from his natural voice where he liked singing, and do whatever it took to sell that song.\"\n\nIn songs such as \"Pride and Joy\", Gaye used three different vocal ranges—singing in his baritone range at the beginning, bringing a lighter tenor in the verses before reaching a gospel mode in the chorus. Holland further stated of Gaye's voice that it was \"...one of the sweetest and prettiest voices you ever wanted to hear.\" And while he noted that ballads and jazz was \"his basic soul\", he stated Gaye \"...had the ability to take a roughhouse, rock and roll, blues, R&B, any kind of song and make it his own\", later saying that Gaye was the most versatile vocalist he had ever worked with.\n\nGaye changed his vocal style in the late 1960s, when he was advised to use a sharper, raspy voice—especially in Norman Whitfield's recordings. Gaye initially disliked the new style, considering it out of his range, but said he was \"into being produce-able.\" After listening to David Ruffin and Levi Stubbs, Gaye said he started to develop what he called his \"tough man voice\"—saying, \"I developed a growl.\" In the liner notes of his DVD set, \"Marvin Gaye: The Real Thing in Performance 1964–1981\", Rob Bowman said that by the early 1970s, Gaye had developed \"three distinct voices: his smooth, sweet tenor; a growling rasp; and an unreal falsetto.\" Bowman further wrote that the recording of the \"What's Going On\" single was \"...the first single to utilize all three as Marvin developed a radical approach to constructing his recordings by layering a series of contrapuntal background vocal lines on different tracks, each one conceived and sung in isolation by Marvin himself.\" Bowman cites Gaye's multi-tracking of his tenor voice and other vocal styles \"summon[ed] up what might be termed the ancient art of weaving\".\n\nPrior to recording the \"What's Going On\" album, Gaye recorded a cover of the song, \"Abraham, Martin & John\", which became a UK hit in 1970. Only a handful of artists of various genres had recorded albums that focused on social commentary, including Curtis Mayfield. Despite some politically conscious material recorded by The Temptations in the late 1960s, Motown artists were often told to not delve into political and social commentary, fearing alienation from pop audiences. Early in his career, Gaye was affected by social events such as the 1965 Watts riots and once asked himself, \"with the world exploding around me, how am I supposed to keep singing love songs?\" When the singer called Gordy in the Bahamas about wanting to do protest music, Gordy cautioned him, \"Marvin, don't be ridiculous. That's taking things too far.\"\n\nGaye was inspired by the Black Panther Party and supported the efforts they put forth like giving free meals to poor families door to door. However, he did not support the violent tactics the Panthers used to fight oppression, as Gaye's messages in many of his political songs were nonviolent. The lyrics and music of \"What's Going On\" discuss and illustrate issues during the 1960s/1970s such as police brutality, drug abuse, environmental issues, anti-war, and black power issues. Gaye was inspired to make this album because of events such as the Vietnam War, the 1967 race riots in Detroit, and the Kent State shootings.\n\nOnce Gaye presented Gordy with the \"What's Going On\" album, Gordy feared Gaye was risking the ruination of his image as a sex symbol. Following the album's success, Gaye tried a follow-up album that he would label \"You're the Man\". The title track only produced modest success, however, and Gaye and Motown shelved the album. Later on, several of Gaye's unreleased songs of social commentary, including \"The World Is Rated X\", would be issued on posthumous compilation albums. \"What's Going On\" would later be described by an AllMusic writer as an album that \"not only redefined soul music as a creative force but also expanded its impact as an agent for social change\".\n\nThe album also provided another first in both Motown and R&B music: Gaye and his engineers had composed the album in a song cycle, segueing previous songs into other songs giving the album a more cohesive feel as opposed to R&B albums that traditionally included filler tracks to complete the album. This style of music would influence recordings by artists such as Stevie Wonder and Barry White making the concept album format a part of 1970s R&B music. Concept albums are usually based on either one theme or a series of themes in connection to the original thesis of the album's concept. \"Let's Get It On\" repeated the suite-form arrangement of \"What's Going On\", as would Gaye's later albums such as \"I Want You\", \"Here, My Dear\" and \"In Our Lifetime\".\n\nAlthough Marvin Gaye was not actually doing social justice work outside of his music, he became a public figure for social change and inspired/educated many people through his work.\n\nMarvin Gaye has been called \"The number-one purveyor of soul music\". In his book \"Mercy Mercy Me: The Art, Loves and Demons of Marvin Gaye\", Michael Eric Dyson described Gaye as someone \"...who transcended the boundaries of rhythm and blues as no other performer had done before.\" Following his death, \"The New York Times\" described Gaye as someone who \"blended the soul music of the urban scene with the beat of the old-time gospel singer and became an influential force in pop music\". Further in the article, Gaye was also credited with combining \"the soulful directness of gospel music, the sweetness of soft-soul and pop, and the vocal musicianship of a jazz singer.\" His recordings for Motown in the 1960s and 1970s shaped that label's signature sound. His work with Motown gave him the titles \"Prince of Soul\" and \"Prince of Motown.\" Critics stated that Gaye's music \"...signified the development of black music from raw rhythm and blues, through sophisticated soul to the political awareness of the 1970s and increased concentration on personal and sexual politics thereafter.\" As a Motown artist, Gaye was among the first to break from the reins of its production system, paving the way for Stevie Wonder. Gaye's late 1970s and early 1980s recordings influenced contemporary forms of R&B predating the subgenres quiet storm and neo-soul.\n\nArtists from many genres have covered Gaye's music, including James Taylor, Brian McKnight, Kate Bush, Cyndi Lauper, Chico DeBarge, Michael McDonald, Aretha Franklin, Diana Ross, Aaliyah, Christina Aguilera, A Perfect Circle, The Strokes and Gil Scott-Heron. Other artists such as D'Angelo, Common, Nas, Erick Sermon, and Maxwell interpolated parts of Gaye's clothing from the singer's mid-1970s period. Gaye's clothing style was later appropriated by Eddie Murphy in his role as James \"Thunder\" Early in \"Dreamgirls\". According to David Ritz, \"Since 1983, Marvin's name has been mentioned—in reverential tones—on no less than seven top-ten hit records.\" Later performers such as Kanye West and Mary J. Blige sampled Gaye's work for their recordings.\n\nThe Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inducted him in 1987, declaring that Gaye \"...made a huge contribution to soul music in general and the Motown Sound in particular.\" The page stated that Gaye \"...possessed a classic R&B voice that was edged with grit yet tempered with sweetness.\" The page further states that Gaye \"...projected an air of soulful authority driven by fervid conviction and heartbroken vulnerability.\" A year after his death, then-mayor of D.C., Marion Barry declared April 2 as \"Marvin Gaye Jr. Memorial Scholarship Fund Day\" in the city. Since then, a non-profit organization has helped to organize annual Marvin Gaye Day Celebrations in the city of Washington.\n\nA year later, Gaye's mother founded the Marvin P. Gaye Jr. Memorial Foundation in dedication to her son to help those suffering from drug abuse and alcoholism; however she died a day before the memorial was set to open in 1987. Gaye's sister Jeanne once served as the foundation's chairperson. In 1990, Gaye received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In 1996, Gaye posthumously received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame listed three Gaye recordings, \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", \"What's Going On\" and \"Sexual Healing\", among its list of the \"500 Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll\". American music magazine \"Rolling Stone\" ranked Gaye No. 18 on their list of the \"100 Greatest Artists of All Time\", sixth on their list of \"100 Greatest Singers of All Time\" and number 82 on their list of the \"100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time\". \"Q\" magazine ranked Gaye sixth on their list of the \"100 Greatest Singers\".\n\nThree of Gaye's albums – \"What's Going On\" (1971), \"Let's Get It On\" (1973), and \"Here, My Dear\" (1978) – were ranked by \"Rolling Stone\" on their list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. \"What's Going On\" remains his largest-ranked album, reaching No. 6 on the \"Rolling Stone\" list and topped the NME list of the \"Top 100 Albums of All Time\" in 1985 and was later chosen in 2003 for inclusion by the Library of Congress to its National Recording Registry. In addition, four of his songs – \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", \"What's Going On\", \"Let's Get It On\" and \"Sexual Healing\" – made it on the \"Rolling Stone\" list of the \"500 Greatest Songs of All Time\".\n\nIn 2005, Marvin Gaye was voted into the Michigan Rock and Roll Legends Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2006, a park that Gaye frequented as a teenager called Watts Branch Park in Washington was renamed Marvin Gaye Park. Three years later, the 5200 block of Foote Street NE in Deanwood, Washington, D.C., was renamed Marvin Gaye Way. In August 2014, Gaye was inducted to the official Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame in its second class. In October 2015, the Songwriters Hall of Fame announced Gaye as a nominee for induction to the Hall's 2016 class after posthumous nominations were included. Gaye was named as a posthumous inductee to that hall on March 2, 2016. Gaye was subsequently inducted to the Songwriters Hall on June 9, 2016. In July 2018, a bill by California politician Karen Bass to rename a post office in South Los Angeles after Gaye was signed into law by President Donald Trump.\n\nHis 1983 NBA All-Star performance of the national anthem was used in a Nike commercial featuring the 2008 U.S. Olympic basketball team. Also, on CBS Sports' final NBA telecast to date (before the contract moved to NBC) at the conclusion of Game 5 of the 1990 Finals, they used Gaye's 1983 All-Star Game performance over the closing credits. When VH1 launched on January 1, 1985, Gaye's 1983 rendition of the national anthem was the very first video they aired. In 2010, it was used in the intro to Ken Burns' \"Tenth Inning\" documentary on the game of baseball.\n\n\"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\" was played in a Levi's ad in 1985. The result of the commercial's success led to the original song finding renewed success in Europe after Tamla-Motown re-released it in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands. In 1986, the song was covered by Buddy Miles as part of a California Raisins ad campaign. The song was later used for chewing gum commercials in Finland and to promote a brand of Lucky Strike cigarettes in Germany.\n\nGaye's music has also been used in numerous film soundtracks including \"Four Brothers\" and \"\", both of which featured Gaye's music from his \"Trouble Man\" soundtrack. \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\" was used in the opening credits of the film, \"The Big Chill\". Gaye's music has also become a source for samples in hip-hop recordings.\n\nIn 2007, his song \"A Funky Space Reincarnation\" was used in the Charlize Theron–starred ad for Dior J'Adore perfume. A documentary about Gaye—\"What's Going On: The Marvin Gaye Story\"—was a UK/PBS co-production, directed by Jeremy Marre and was first broadcast in 2006. Two years later, the special re-aired with a different production and newer interviews after it was re-broadcast as an \"American Masters\" special. Another documentary, focusing on his 1981 documentary, \"Transit Ostend\", titled \"Remember Marvin\", aired in 2006.\n\nIn 2008, Gaye's estate earned $3.5 million (US$ in dollars). As a result, Gaye took 13th place in \"Top-Earning Dead Celebrities\" in \"Forbes\" magazine.\n\nOn March 11, 2015, Gaye's family was awarded $7.4 million in damages following a decision by an eight-member jury in Los Angeles that Robin Thicke and Pharrell Williams had breached copyright by incorporating part of Gaye's song \"Got to Give It Up\" into their hit \"Blurred Lines\". In January 2016, the Gaye family requested a California judge give $2.66 million in attorneys' fees and $777,000 in legal expenses.\n\nGaye's estate is currently managed by Geffen Management Group and his legacy is protected through Creative Rights Group, both founded by talent manager Jeremy Geffen.\n\nThere have been several attempts to adapt Gaye's life story into a feature film. In February 2006, it was reported that Jesse L. Martin was to portray Gaye in a biopic titled \"Sexual Healing\", named after Gaye's 1982 song of the same name. The film was to have been directed by Lauren Goodman and produced by James Gandolfini and Alexandra Ryan. The film was to depict the final three years of Gaye's life. Years later, other producers such as Jean-Luc Van Damme, Frederick Bestall and Jimmy De Brabant, came aboard and Goodman was replaced by Julien Temple. Lenny Kravitz was almost slated to playing Gaye. The script was to be written by Matthew Broughton. The film was to have been distributed by Focus Features and released on April 1, 2014, the thirtieth anniversary of Gaye's death. This never came to fruition and it was announced that Focus Features no longer has involvement with the Gaye biopic as of June 2013.\n\nIn June 2008, it was announced that F. Gary Gray was going to direct a biopic titled \"Marvin\". The script was to be written by C. Gaby Mitchell and the film was to be produced by David Foster and Duncan McGillivray and co-produced by Ryan Heppe. According to Gray, the film would cover Gaye's entire life, from his emergence at Motown through his defiance of Berry Gordy to record \"What's Going On\" and on up to his death.\n\nCameron Crowe had also been working on a biopic titled \"My Name Is Marvin\". The film was to have been a Sony presentation with Scott Rudin as producer. Both Will Smith and Terrence Howard were considered for the role of Gaye. Crowe later confirmed in August 2011 that he abandoned the project: \"We were working on the Marvin Gaye movie which is called \"My Name is Marvin\", but the time just wasn't right for that movie.\"\n\nMembers of Gaye's family, such as his ex-wife Janis and his son Marvin III, have expressed opposition to a biopic.\n\nOn December 9, 2015, Roger Friedman spoke of a biopic to be directed by F. Gary Gray that was approved by Berry Gordy and Suzanne de Passe as well as Gaye's family, following the success of Gray's \"Straight Outta Compton\" biopic based on the hip-hop act N.W.A.\n\nIn July 2016, it was announced that a feature film documentary on Gaye will be released next year delving into the life of the musician and the making of his 1971 album, \"What's Going On\". The film will be developed by Noah Media Group and Greenlight and is quoted to be \"the defining portrait of this visionary artist and his impeccable album\" by the film's producers Gabriel Clarke and Torquil Jones. The film will include \"unseen footage\" of the singer. Gaye's family approved of the documentary. In November 2016, it was announced that actor Jamie Foxx was billed to produce a limited biopic series on the singer's life. The series was approved by Gaye's family, including son Marvin III, who will serve as executive producer, and Berry Gordy, Jr..\n\nOn June 18, 2018, it was reported that American rapper Dr. Dre was in talks to produce a biopic about the singer.\n\nGaye acted in two movies, both having to do with Vietnam veterans. One was in 1969 in the George McCowan-directed film, \"The Ballad of Andy Crocker\" which starred Lee Majors. The film was about a war veteran returning to find that his expectations have not been met and he feels betrayed. Gaye had a prominent role in the film as David Owens. The other was in 1971. He had a role in the Lee Frost-directed biker-exploitation film, \"Chrome and Hot Leather\", a film about a group of Vietnam veterans taking on a bike gang. The film starred William Smith and Gaye played the part of Jim, one of the veterans. Gaye did have acting aspirations and had signed with the William Morris Agency but that only lasted a year as Gaye wasn't satisfied with the support he was getting from the agency.\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "40863629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40863629", "title": "Matt Somers", "text": "Matt Somers\n\nMatthew Paul Somers (born 1967) is a management consultant specialising in providing coaching skills for managers. He grew up in London, attending Faraday High School and began his working life with Barclays Bank in their Notting Hill branch. His career with Barclays took him to Poole in Dorset but he now lives in North East England with his wife and daughter.\n\nLeaving school at 16, Matt joined Barclays on a standard-entry school leaver programme in 1983. He credits his fascination with the management of people to those early work experiences – not all of which were very positive.\n\nAfter seven years or so of branch-banking Matt took up a role in personnel juggling a variety of recruitment and training responsibilities.\n\nIt was whilst working as a training manager that Matt attended a coaching skills programme run by Sir John Whitmore and Performance Consultants. Matt has said that attending this training transformed his working life and that he wishes he could have been managed this way in his early days with the bank.\n\nAfter leaving Barclays Matt set up his first training consultancy in 1999. Called Performance Development, the firm provided training in a number of soft skills areas with courses being delivered by Matt or one of the firm's associate trainers.\n\nHowever, in 2000 Matt focused the firm on coaching skills for managers. At the same time Matt undertook a master's degree in Human Resource Development with the University of Sunderland where he researched coaching in a contact centre environment for his dissertation.\n\nIn 2002, Matt's first book, \"Coaching in a Week\" was published by Hodder and Stoughton. This was followed by \"Coaching at Work\" (Wiley, 2006), Instant Manager: Coaching (Hodder, 2008) and Bullet Guide: Coaching (Hodder 2011). A second edition of \"Coaching in a Week\" was published by Hodder in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2084316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2084316", "title": "Maurizio Gucci", "text": "Maurizio Gucci\n\nMaurizio Gucci went on to sell his stock in Gucci in 1993 for $170 million to the Bahrain-based investment group, Investcorp. In 1995, a year and a half after the sale of Gucci, he was gunned down by a hired hit man. His ex-wife Patrizia Reggiani was later convicted of arranging the killing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1359365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1359365", "title": "Michael Cudahy (electronics)", "text": "Michael Cudahy (electronics)\n\nMichael John Cudahy (born March 24, 1924) is an entrepreneur, business executive and philanthropist.\n\nBorn in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in 1924, Cudahy is the son of John Cudahy, United States ambassador to Ireland, Poland and Belgium. His grandfather is Patrick Cudahy, founder of the Patrick Cudahy meat company.\n\nOn Thursday, August 2, 2007, WTMJ-AM in Milwaukee reported that Michael Cudahy was one of several private investors considering purchasing Midwest Airlines.\n\nAlong with Warren Cozzens, he founded Marquette Electronics in 1965 and served as chairman and CEO. The company went public in 1991. After starting with only $15,000 in capital, the company went on to have over $350 million annually in sales. \n\nHis company put together the nation's first central electrocardiographic system at Northwestern University Medical School. This machine has since become standard in hospitals throughout the United States. The company was also noted for having one of the first on-site day care centers in the nation. \n\nIn 1982, he and Warren bought the failing Patient Monitoring Business Unit from GE (then known as General Electric Medical Systems Division) and combined it with the existing business (primarily diagnostic equipment).\n\nIn 1998, he sold Marquette Electronics (by then known as Marquette Medical Systems) to GE. The company exists today as part of the Clinical Systems division of GE Healthcare, a subsidiary of the American conglomerate. After stepping aside at his company, Cudahy focused his energies on philanthropy and serving on the boards of other companies. \n\nIn 1999, according to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings, he invested $10 million in TomoTherapy a Madison, Wisconsin bio-technology start-up. It went public on May 9, 2007 with the stock symbol TOMO. Mr Cudahy's 10% interest is valued at more than $100 million at present prices (September 2007).\n\nIn 2002 he told the story of the founding of Marquette Electronics in the book \"Joyworks\" ().\n\nThe following institutions have been the recipients of gifts by Michael J. Cudahy:\n\n"}
{"id": "47144814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47144814", "title": "Monica Mondardini", "text": "Monica Mondardini\n\nMonica Mondardini (Cesena, 26 September 1960) is an Italian emanager, currently Chief Executive Officer of the CIR Group (Compagnie Industriali Riunite) and of its subsidiary Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso.\n\nA graduate in Statistical and Economic Sciences from the University of Bologna, she began her managerial career in the publishing sector in 1985 in the Fabbri Group, taking part in an international development project. In 1990 she joined Hachette (Lagardère group) as Director of the Spanish branch of Hachette Livre; subsequently she was appointed Director of the international branch with headquarters in Paris and also became a member of the Executive Committee of Hachette Livre.\n\nIn 1998 she joined the Assicurazioni Generali group as Chief Executive Officer of Europ Assistance in Paris. Two years later she returned to Italy to head up the Planning and Control Service of the general management of Generali in Trieste. In 2001 she moved to Madrid to take up the position of chief executive of Generali España.\n\nOn December 1, 2008 she became Chief Executive Officer of Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso, one of the main publishing groups in Italy. Under her leadership, despite the difficult economic situation in the sector, Espresso is one of the few publishing houses in Italy to be profitable. \nOn May 20, 2010 she was elected to the Board of the French bank Crédit Agricole.\nIn 2012 she was appointed Chief Executive Officer of CIR Group (Compagnie Industriali Riunite), the holding company that controls Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso, Sogefi and KOS. In 2015 she became Chairman of Sogefi.\n\nBoard of Directors of the Atlantia group\n\n"}
{"id": "45486879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45486879", "title": "RHCM", "text": "RHCM\n\nRapid Heat Cycle Molding (RHCM) is also known as steam injection molding. Dr. Chao-Tsai Huang has written an extensive 68 page paper outlining, among other things, a case study on RHCM. His paper is entitled In-depth Study of RHCM and IHM Technologiesand Industrial Applications\n\nIn general, ABS material is used as the raw material. The primary advantage of steam injection is that it eliminates weld-lines on molded parts. This allows companies to eliminate future processes such as painting. In non-steam molding, water will heat the tool to a constant temperature. Plastic will be injected to the warm tool.\n\nIn steam molding, steam is injected at 160 degrees to heat the tool. When the tool reaches a predetermined temperature (about 140 degrees), the plastic is injected. Cold water is immediately added to the process to cool the plastic down to around 40 degrees.\nBecause the mold is so hot when the plastic is injected, there are no weld lines, and a \"perfect\" product results. Steam injection molding is now being extensively used to produce the front covers of LCD TVs.\n"}
{"id": "21361622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21361622", "title": "Scoring (industrial process)", "text": "Scoring (industrial process)\n\nScoring is a process in which one cuts a groove into rigid material (usually tile, stone, glass, etc.). This groove is used to either break the material along the slit, for decoration, or act as a guideline for other processes such as painting. It can also be used to allow materials to expand and contract under varying thermal conditions. Scoring is used in place of cutting through the material all the way because you can obtain relatively the same results with less time and labor.\n\n\nScoring is most commonly used in concrete work for decoration by making the grooves appear to be grout lines from tile work.\n"}
{"id": "31163846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31163846", "title": "State v. Elliott", "text": "State v. Elliott\n\nState v. Elliott, 616 A.2d 210 (Vt. 1992), is a decision of the Vermont Supreme Court holding that all aboriginal title in Vermont was extinguished \"by the increasing weight of history.\" The Vermont Supreme Court has clarified that its holding in \"Elliott\" applies to the entire state.\n\nIn 1987, the land claim became an issue in the Abenaki chief election between Homer St. Francis and Lester Lampman. Lampman advocated that the tribe take a more aggressive stance in pushing its claim to \"all of Vermont as well as parts of New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine.\" St. Francis won the election.\n\nOn October 18, 1987, St. Francis organized a \"fish-in\" with 35 other tribal members on the Missisquoi River, conducted without licenses from the state.\n\nJust prior to the district court's decision, Chief St. Francis withdrew the tribe's petition for federal recognition, saying: \"We don't need a Government we don't recognize to tell us we exist.\"\n\nThe case arose in the aftermath two Vermont District Court decisions.\n\nIn \"State v. Saint Francis\", on August 14, 1989, Judge Joseph J. Wolchik of the Vermont District Court in Franklin County, in a 96-page decision, held that the Abenaki were a tribe, retained aboriginal rights to hunt and fish, and therefore did not need to acquire fishing licenses from the state. Judge Wolchik held that the Abenaki's aboriginal area consisted of 500,000 acres in northwestern Vermont: Grand Isle County, most of Franklin County, and some of Chittenden and Orleans counties. Wolchik dismissed the charges against all but six of the defendants; he held that the remaining six were not tribal members.\n\nIn the aftermath of the decision, Chief St. Francis vowed to file a land claim \"as soon as possible.\" By then, St. Francis estimated the tribe's claim area as \"all of Vermont, all of New Hampshire, and parts of northern Massachusetts, western Maine, upstate New York and southern Quebec.\"\n\nBy September 12, 1990, several title insurance companies in Vermont attempted to amend their standard policy contracts (an action that requires approval from the state banking department) to exclude a potential Abenaki claim from coverage.\n\nIn \"State v. Bellevue\", on August 13, 1990, in another fishing rights case, Judge Edward Cashman of the Vermont District Court in Franklin County held that the Abenaki were not exempt from state criminal jurisdiction. Judge Cashman, unlike Judge Wolchik, held neither tribal status nor aboriginal fishing rights could exist in the absence of a federal treaty.\n\nThe Vermont Supreme Court reversed and remanded Judge Wolchik's decision.\n\nThe opinion's main legal innovation was holding that \"[a]n historical event, although insufficient by itself to establish an extinguishment, may contribute to a finding of extinguishment when analyzed together with other events\" and that \"a century-long course of conduct may demonstrate extinguishment, even though the exact date on which Indian title is extinguished is difficult to determine.\"\n\nThe court concluded that \"a series of historical events, beginning with the Wentworth Grants of 1763, and ending with Vermont's admission to the Union in 1791, extinguished the aboriginal rights claimed here.\"\n\nLegal commentary on the \"Elliott\" decision has been generally negative. According to Joseph William Singer, a professor at Harvard Law School:\n\n[I]t defies both precedent and the longstanding policy of protecting Indian title to conclude that Congress, by the simple admission of Vermont to the Union, casually obliterated all Abenaki title in the State of Vermont, whether currently settled by non-Indians or inhabited by Abenakis.\n\nGene Bergman wrote in the \"American Indian Law Review\":\n\n\"Elliot\" misinterprets Abenaki/Vermont history during the period from 1763 to 1791. An honest account of history would not have found extinguishment under the traditional rules. Hence, to avoid this conclusion, the Vermont Court created a radical new test that undermines the United States Supreme Court's rules and purposes protecting aboriginal title. . . .<br>Essentially, the court changed the test from an examination of intent/purpose to a review of cumulative effects. Under this new test, a sovereign need not have known that the consequences of an act would eliminate aboriginal title. Therefore, if the sovereign unleashed forces which eventually frustrated Indian occupancy, \"Elliot\" would find extinguishment in that act. \"Elliot\" implicitly holds that the cumulative effects need not be manifested at the time of or near in time to the sovereign action. The functional result of \"Elliot\" is that courts will weigh the cumulative effects of a sovereign's action over a long time—say, 200 years. This removes the barrier prohibiting the light imputing of extinguishment. \"Elliot\" undermines the entire framework of aboriginal title law.\n\nAccording to John Lowndes:\n\nThis controversial decision marks a clear departure from the longstanding aboriginal title doctrine expounded in the early nineteenth century by Chief Justice John Marshall and the United States Supreme Court. The Vermont court's decision not only breaks with the rule that a tribe must consent to extinguishment of its aboriginal title, but also rejects the requirement that the dominant sovereign must express its intent to extinguish title with a \"plain and unambiguous action.\" The Vermont Supreme Court's holding that the \"increasing weight of history\" alone can terminate Indian title disposes of the rule of law, and replaces it with a selective reading of the conqueror's history.\n\nVermont extended state-recognition to the Abenaki in 2006. The original recognition act provided:\n\nThis chapter shall not be construed to recognize, create, extend, or form the basis of any right or claim to land or real estate in Vermont for the Abenaki people or any Abenaki individual and shall be construed to confer only those rights specifically described in this chapter.\n\nThe language was amended and re-codified in 2010:\n\nRecognition of a Native American Indian tribe shall not be construed to create, extend, or form the basis of any right or claim to land or real estate in Vermont or right to conduct any gambling activities prohibited by law, but confers only those rights specifically described in this chapter.\n\nThe amendment bill also added the following language:\n\nState-recognized Native American Indian tribes and their members will continue to be subject to all laws of the state, and recognition shall not be construed to create any basis or authority for tribes to establish or promote any form of prohibited gambling activity or to claim any interest in land or real estate in Vermont.\n\nThe St. Francis / Sokoki Band of Abenakis of Vermont were denied federal recognition on July 2, 2007. The Department of Interior determined that the Abenaki failed to satisfy four of the seven criteria for federal recognition: \n\n"}
{"id": "31468761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31468761", "title": "Stowage factor", "text": "Stowage factor\n\nIn shipping, the stowage factor indicates how many cubic metres of space one metric tonne (or cubic feet of space one long ton) of a particular type of cargo occupies in a hold of a cargo ship. It is calculated as the ratio of the stowage space required under normal conditions, including the stowage losses caused by the means of transportation and packaging, to the weight of the cargo. The stowage factor can be used in ship design and as a reference to evaluate the efficiency of use of the cargo space on a ship.\n\nThe stowage factor varies from one type of commodity to another — for example iron ore has a stowage factor of 0.40 (m/mt), meaning that the space needed by one tonne of ore is only one sixth of that required to stow one tonne of woodchips that have a stowage factor of 2.5. This means that if a ship designed to carry woodchips is loaded with iron ore, only a small part of the hold capacity can be utilized, and a bulk carrier designed to carry iron ore cannot be loaded to the maximum draft with woodchips, leaving much of its deadweight tonnage unutilized. Thus the stowage factor is taken into account in ship design when determining the size of cargo holds, and specialized ships such as ore carriers and car carriers are built for cargoes with a stowage factor that departs significantly from the average.\n\nThe stowage factor also depends on the type of packaging, being the lowest for unpackaged bulk cargo. While most commonly used for dry bulk cargo, a stowage factor can also be calculated for liquid bulk cargo and other commodities such as containers or cars. Stowage factors for several types of cargo are presented in the following table.\n\n"}
{"id": "1083771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083771", "title": "Sunday Trading Act 1994", "text": "Sunday Trading Act 1994\n\nThe Sunday Trading Act 1994 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom governing the right of shops in England and Wales to trade on a Sunday. Buying and selling on Sunday had previously been illegal, with exceptions, under the Shops Act 1950.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the Shops Bill 1986, which would have enabled widespread Sunday trading, compromise legislation was introduced in July 1994 in England and Wales, coming into force on 26 August 1994, allowing shops to open, but restricting opening times of larger stores i.e. those over to a maximum of six hours, between 10am and 6pm only. Large retail park shops usually open 11am-5pm, with supermarkets more usually choosing 10am-4pm. In central London, for example on Oxford Street, many shops choose to open from midday to 6pm. This includes large 24-hour supermarkets, which meant that supermarkets have to close on Saturday night to allow six continuous hour shopping within an allotted time.\n\nHowever, some of the stores open half an hour earlier to allow people to \"browse\", but do not allow sales before the allotted time. Deliveries to the large stores are not permitted to be loaded or unloaded before 9am. Large shops were excluded from opening on Easter Sunday and Christmas Day (when it fell on a Sunday), but the Christmas Day (Trading) Act 2004 made it illegal for large shops to open on Christmas Day whichever day of the week it fell on.\n\nShops in Scotland, where Sunday trading had always been generally unregulated, retained the right to open at any time. However the right for workers in Scotland to refuse to work on a Sunday was later conferred by the Sunday Working (Scotland) Act 2003. Northern Ireland has separate laws governing Sunday opening.\n\nThe Sunday Trading Bill had met with considerable opposition from the Lord's Day Observance Society and other groups such as the Keep Sunday Special campaign, a coalition body which includes the shopworkers' trade union USDAW. USDAW finally agreed to support 6 hour Sunday trading in return for a promise that Sunday working would be strictly voluntary. This decision played an important role in encouraging many Labour MPs to back the bill in a free vote. They asked for a guarantee of premium pay but the Government's position was that that was a matter for negotiation between shopworkers or their unions and their employers and the Act as passed says nothing about the rate of pay for Sunday working.\n\nIn the run up to the 2012 Olympic Games, the Sunday Trading (London Olympic Games and Paralympic Games) Act 2012 was passed stipulating that Sunday trading laws would be suspended by the government on eight weekends from 22 July during the Olympics and Paralympics. This was a temporary measure, and the relaxation expired at the end of the summer.\n\nThe debate over Sunday trading laws was reignited in 2014, when a comres poll commissioned by newly formed grassroots organisation 'Open Sundays' revealed that 72% of people believe they should be able to shop whenever is convenient to them. The debate gained further political traction in May of the same year, when Philip Davies MP tabled five amendments to the Deregulation Bill which aimed at abolishing or liberalising the current Sunday trading laws. Although these amendments were ultimately rejected, the debate is continuing to receive attention, with Davies appearing on the BBC's Daily Politics on 2 July 2014 and labelling the current regulations as \"completely absurd and unjustifiable\". \n\nIt was proposed in the July 2015 Budget that the Sunday trading laws might be relaxed and shops over be able to open longer. However this proposal was defeated in a House of Commons vote.\n\nSome categories of large shops are exempt from the Sunday Trading Act 1994:\n\n\nSmall shops with a floor area of under and up to 280 square metres (3,000 square feet) may open if they wish to.\n\n"}
{"id": "26859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26859", "title": "Synergy", "text": "Synergy\n\nSynergy is the creation of a whole that is greater than the simple sum of its parts. The term \"synergy\" comes from the Attic Greek word συνεργία ' from ', , meaning \"working together\".\n\nThe words \"synergy\" and \"synergetic\" have been used in the field of physiology since at least the middle of the 19th century:\n\nSYN'ERGY, \"Synergi'a\", \"Synenergi'a\", (F.) \"Synergie\"; from \"συν\", 'with,' and \"εργον\", 'work.' A correlation or concourse of action between different organs in health; and, according to some, in disease.\n\nIn 1896, applied the term \"synergy\" to social psychology by writing \"La synergie sociale\", in which he argued that Darwinian theory failed to account for \"social synergy\" or \"social love\", a collective evolutionary drive. The highest civilizations were the work not only of the elite but of the masses too; those masses must be led, however, because the crowd, a feminine and unconscious force, cannot distinguish between good and evil.\n\nIn 1909, Lester Frank Ward defined synergy as the universal constructive principle of nature:\n\nI have characterized the social struggle as centrifugal and social solidarity as centripetal. Either alone is productive of evil consequences. Struggle is essentially destructive of the social order, while communism removes individual initiative. The one leads to disorder, the other to degeneracy. What is not seen—the truth that has no expounders—is that the wholesome, constructive movement consists in the properly ordered combination and interaction of both these principles. This is \"social synergy\", which is a form of cosmic synergy, the universal constructive principle of nature.\nIn the natural world, synergistic phenomena are ubiquitous, ranging from physics (for example, the different combinations of quarks that produce protons and neutrons) to chemistry (a popular example is water, a compound of hydrogen and oxygen), to the cooperative interactions among the genes in genomes, the division of labor in bacterial colonies, the synergies of scale in multi-cellular organisms, as well as the many different kinds of synergies produced by socially-organized groups, from honeybee colonies to wolf packs and human societies: compare stigmergy, a mechanism of indirect coordination between agents or actions that results in the self-assembly of complex systems. Even the tools and technologies that are widespread in the natural world represent important sources of synergistic effects. The tools that enabled early hominins to become systematic big-game hunters is a primordial human example.\nIn the context of organizational behavior, following the view that a cohesive group is more than the sum of its parts, synergy is the ability of a group to outperform even its best individual member. These conclusions are derived from the studies conducted by Jay Hall on a number of laboratory-based group ranking and prediction tasks. He found that effective groups actively looked for the points in which they disagreed and in consequence encouraged conflicts amongst the participants in the early stages of the discussion. In contrast, the ineffective groups felt a need to establish a common view quickly, used simple decision making methods such as averaging, and focused on completing the task rather than on finding solutions they could agree on.\nIn a technical context, its meaning is a construct or collection of different elements working together to produce results not obtainable by any of the elements alone. The elements, or parts, can include people, hardware, software, facilities, policies, documents: all things required to produce system-level results. The value added by the system as a whole, beyond that contributed independently by the parts, is created primarily by the relationship among the parts, that is, how they are interconnected. In essence, a system constitutes a set of interrelated components working together with a common objective: fulfilling some designated need.\n\nIf used in a business application, synergy means that teamwork will produce an overall better result than if each person within the group were working toward the same goal individually. However, the concept of group cohesion needs to be considered. Group cohesion is that property that is inferred from the number and strength of mutual positive attitudes among members of the group. As the group becomes more cohesive, its functioning is affected in a number of ways. First, the interactions and communication between members increase. Common goals, interests and small size all contribute to this. In addition, group member satisfaction increases as the group provides friendship and support against outside threats.\n\nThere are negative aspects of group cohesion that have an effect on group decision-making and hence on group effectiveness. There are two issues arising. The risky shift phenomenon is the tendency of a group to make decisions that are riskier than those that the group would have recommended individually. Group Polarisation is when individuals in a group begin by taking a moderate stance on an issue regarding a common value and, after having discussed it, end up taking a more extreme stance.\n\nA second, potential negative consequence of group cohesion is group think. Group think is a mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved in cohesive group, when the members' striving for unanimity overrides their motivation to appraise realistically the alternative courses of action. Studying the events of several American policy \"disasters\" such as the failure to anticipate the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor (1941) and the Bay of Pigs Invasion fiasco (1961), Irving Janis argued that they were due to the cohesive nature of the committees that made the relevant decisions.\n\nThat decisions made by committees lead to failure in a simple system is noted by Dr. Chris Elliot. His case study looked at IEEE-488, an international standard set by the leading US standards body; it led to a failure of small automation systems using the IEEE-488 standard (which codified a proprietary communications standard HP-IB). But the external devices used for communication were made by two different companies, and the incompatibility between the external devices led to a financial loss for the company. He argues that systems will be safe only if they are designed, not if they emerge by chance.\nThe idea of a systemic approach is endorsed by the United Kingdom Health and Safety Executive. The successful performance of the health and safety management depends upon the analyzing the causes of incidents and accidents and learning correct lessons from them. The idea is that all events (not just those causing injuries) represent failures in control, and present an opportunity for learning and improvement. UK Health and Safety Executive, \"Successful health and safety management\" (1997): this book describes the principles and management practices, which provide the basis of effective health and safety management. It sets out the issues that need to be addressed, and can be used for developing improvement programs, self-audit, or self-assessment. Its message is that organizations must manage health and safety with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities, if they are to effectively control risks and prevent harm to people.\n\nThe term synergy was refined by R. Buckminster Fuller, who analyzed some of its implications more fully and coined the term synergetics.\n\n\nSynergy of various kinds has been advanced by Peter Corning as a causal agency that can explain the progressive evolution of complexity in living systems over the course of time. According to the Synergism Hypothesis, synergistic effects have been the drivers of cooperative relationships of all kinds and at all levels in living systems. The thesis, in a nutshell, is that synergistic effects have often provided functional advantages (economic benefits) in relation to survival and reproduction that have been favored by natural selection. The cooperating parts, elements, or individuals become, in effect, functional “units” of selection in evolutionary change. Similarly, environmental systems may react in a non-linear way to perturbations, such as climate change, so that the outcome may be greater than the sum of the individual component alterations. Synergistic responses are a complicating factor in environmental modeling.\n\nPest synergy would occur in a biological host organism population, where, for example, the introduction of parasite A may cause 10% fatalities, and parasite B may also cause 10% loss. When both parasites are present, the losses would normally be expected to total less than 20%, yet, in some cases, losses are significantly greater. In such cases, it is said that the parasites in combination have a synergistic effect.\n\nMechanisms that may be involved in the development of synergistic effects include:\n\nMore mechanisms are described in an exhaustive 2009 review.\n\nToxicological synergy is of concern to the public and regulatory agencies because chemicals individually considered safe might pose unacceptable health or ecological risk in combination. Articles in scientific and lay journals include many definitions of chemical or toxicological synergy, often vague or in conflict with each other. Because toxic interactions are defined relative to the expectation under \"no interaction\", a determination of synergy (or antagonism) depends on what is meant by \"no interaction\". The United States Environmental Protection Agency has one of the more detailed and precise definitions of toxic interaction, designed to facilitate risk assessment. In their guidance documents, the no-interaction default assumption is dose addition, so synergy means a mixture response that exceeds that predicted from dose addition. The EPA emphasizes that synergy does not always make a mixture dangerous, nor does antagonism always make the mixture safe; each depends on the predicted risk under dose addition.\n\nFor example, a consequence of pesticide use is the risk of health effects. During the registration of pesticides in the United States exhaustive tests are performed to discern health effects on humans at various exposure levels. A regulatory upper limit of presence in foods is then placed on this pesticide. As long as residues in the food stay below this regulatory level, health effects are deemed highly unlikely and the food is considered safe to consume.\n\nHowever, in normal agricultural practice, it is rare to use only a single pesticide. During the production of a crop, several different materials may be used. Each of them has had determined a regulatory level at which they would be considered individually safe. In many cases, a commercial pesticide is itself a combination of several chemical agents, and thus the safe levels actually represent levels of the mixture. In contrast, a combination created by the end user, such as a farmer, has rarely been tested in that combination. The potential for synergy is then unknown or estimated from data on similar combinations. This lack of information also applies to many of the chemical combinations to which humans are exposed, including residues in food, indoor air contaminants, and occupational exposures to chemicals. Some groups think that the rising rates of cancer, asthma, and other health problems may be caused by these combination exposures; others have alternative explanations. This question will likely be answered only after years of exposure by the population in general and research on chemical toxicity, usually performed on animals. Examples of pesticide synergists include Piperonyl butoxide and MGK 264.\n\nHuman synergy relates to human interaction and teamwork. For example, say person A alone is too short to reach an apple on a tree and person B is too short as well. Once person B sits on the shoulders of person A, they are tall enough to reach the apple. In this example, the product of their synergy would be one apple. Another case would be two politicians. If each is able to gather one million votes on their own, but together they were able to appeal to 2.5 million voters, their synergy would have produced 500,000 more votes than had they each worked independently. A song is also a good example of human synergy, taking more than one musical part and putting them together to create a song that has a much more dramatic effect than each of the parts when played individually.\n\nA third form of human synergy is when one person is able to complete two separate tasks by doing one action, for example, if a person were asked by a teacher and his boss at work to write an essay on how he could improve his work. A more visual example of this synergy is a drummer using four separate rhythms to create one drum beat.\n\nSynergy usually arises when two persons with different complementary skills cooperate. In business, cooperation of people with organizational and technical skills happens very often. In general, the most common reason why people cooperate is that it brings a synergy. On the other hand, people tend to specialize just to be able to form groups with high synergy (see also division of labor and teamwork).\n\nExample: Two teams in System Administration working together to combine technical and organizational skills in order to better the client experience, thus creating synergy. Counter-examples can be found in books like The Mythical Man-Month, in which the addition of additional team members is shown to have negative effects on productivity.\n\nOrganismic computing is an approach to improving group efficacy by increasing synergy in human groups via technological means.\n\nWhen synergy occurs in the work place, the individuals involved get to work in a positive and supportive working environment. When individuals get to work in environments such as these, the company reaps the benefits. The authors of \"Creating the Best Workplace on Earth\" Rob Goffee and Gareth Jones, state that \"highly engaged employees are, on average, 50% more likely to exceed expectations that the least-engaged workers. And companies with highly engaged people outperform firms with the most disengaged folks- by 54% in employee retention, by 89% in customer satisfaction, and by fourfold in revenue growth (Goffee & Jones, pg. 100).\" Also, those that are able to be open about their views on the company, and have confidence that they will be heard, are likely to be a more organized employee who helps his/ her fellow team members succeed.\n\nCorporate synergy occurs when corporations interact congruently. A corporate synergy refers to a financial benefit that a corporation\nexpects to realize when it merges with or acquires another corporation. This type of synergy is a nearly ubiquitous feature of a corporate acquisition and is a negotiating point between the buyer and seller that impacts the final price both parties agree to. There are distinct types of corporate synergies, as follows.\n\nA marketing synergy refers to the use of information campaigns, studies, and scientific discovery or experimentation for research or development. This promotes the sale of products for varied use or off-market sales as well as development of marketing tools and in several cases exaggeration of effects. It is also often a meaningless buzzword used by corporate leaders.\n\nA revenue synergy refers to the opportunity of a combined corporate entity to generate more revenue than its two predecessor stand-alone companies would be able to generate. For example, if company A sells product X through its sales force, company B sells product Y, and company A decides to buy company B then the new company could use each sales person to sell products X and Y, thereby increasing the revenue that each sales person generates for the company.\n\nIn media revenue, synergy is the promotion and sale of a product throughout the various subsidiaries of a media conglomerate, e.g. films, soundtracks, or video games.\n\nFinancial synergy gained by the combined firm is a result of number of benefits which flow to the entity as a consequence of acquisition and merger. These benefits may be:\n\nThis is when a firm having number of cash extensive projects acquires a firm which is cash-rich, thus enabling the new combined firm to enjoy the profits from investing the cash of one firm in the projects of the other.\n\nIf two firms have no or little capacity to carry debt before individually, it is possible for them to join and gain the capacity to carry the debt through decreased gearing (leverage). This creates value for the firm, as debt is thought to be a cheaper source of finance.\n\nIt is possible for one firm to have unused tax benefits which might be offset against the profits of another after combination, thus resulting in less tax being paid. However this greatly depends on the tax law of the country.\n\nSynergy in management and in relation to teamwork refers to the combined effort of individuals as participants of the team. The condition that exists when the organization's parts interact to produce a joint effect that is greater than the sum of the parts acting alone. Positive or negative synergies can exist. In these cases, positive synergy has positive effects such as improved efficiency in operations, greater exploitation of opportunities, and improved utilization of resources. Negative synergy on the other hand has negative effects such as: reduced efficiency of operations, decrease in quality, underutilization of resources and disequilibrium with the external environment.\n\nA cost synergy refers to the opportunity of a combined corporate entity to reduce or eliminate expenses associated with running a business. Cost synergies are realized by eliminating positions that are viewed as duplicate within the merged entity. Examples include the headquarters office of one of the predecessor companies, certain executives, the human resources department, or other employees of the predecessor companies. This is related to the economic concept of economies of scale.\n\nThe synergistic action of the economic players lies within the economic phenomenon's profundity. The synergistic action gives different dimensions to competitiveness, strategy and network identity becoming an unconventional \"weapon\" which belongs to those who exploit the economic systems’ potential in depth.\n\nThe synergistic gravity equation (SYNGEq), according to its complex “title”, represents a synthesis of the endogenous and exogenous factors which determine the private and non-private economic decision makers to call to actions of synergistic exploitation of the economic network in which they operate. That is to say, SYNGEq constitutes a big picture of the factors/motivations which determine the entrepreneurs to contour an active synergistic network. SYNGEq includes both factors which character is changing over time (such as the competitive conditions), as well as classics factors, such as the imperative of the access to resources of the collaboration and the quick answers. The synergistic gravity equation (SINGEq) comes to be represented by the formula:\n\n∑SYN.Act = ∑R-*I(CRed+COOP++A)*V(Cust.+Info.)*cc\n\nwhere:\n\nThe synergistic network represents an integrated part of the economic system which, through the coordination and control functions (of the undertaken economic actions), agrees synergies. The networks which promote synergistic actions can be divided in horizontal synergistic networks and vertical synergistic networks.\n\nThe synergy effects are difficult (even impossible) to imitate by competitors and difficult to reproduce by their authors because these effects depend on the combination of factors with time-varying characteristics. The synergy effects are often called \"synergistic benefits\", representing the direct and implied result of the developed/adopted synergistic actions.\n\nSynergy can also be defined as the combination of human strengths and computer strengths, such as advanced chess. Computers can process data much more quickly than humans, but lack the ability to respond meaningfully to arbitrary stimuli.\n\nEtymologically, the \"synergy\" term was first used around 1600, deriving from the Greek word “synergos”, which means “to work together” or “to cooperate”. If during this period the synergy concept was mainly used in the theological field (describing “the cooperation of human effort with divine will”), in the 19th and 20th centuries, \"synergy\" was promoted in physics and biochemistry, being implemented in the study of the open economic systems only in the 1960 and 1970s.\n\nIn 1938, J. R. R. Tolkien wrote an essay titled \"On Fairy Stores\", delivered at an Andrew Lang Lecture, and reprinted in his book, \"The Tolkien Reader\", published in 1966. In it, he made two references to synergy, although he did not use that term. He wrote:\nFaerie cannot be caught in a net of words; for it is one of its qualities to be indescribable, though not imperceptible. It has many ingredients, but analysis will not necessarily discover the secret of the whole.\nAnd more succinctly, in a footnote, about the \"part of producing the web of an intricate story\", he wrote:\nIt is indeed easier to unravel a single \"thread\" — an incident, a name, a motive — than to trace the history of any \"picture\" defined by many threads. For with the picture in the tapestry a new element has come in: the picture is greater than, and not explained by, the sum of the component threads.\n\nThe informational synergies which can be applied also in media involve a compression of transmission, access and use of information’s time, the flows, circuits and means of handling information being based on a complementary, integrated, transparent and coordinated use of knowledge.\n\nIn media economics, synergy is the promotion and sale of a product (and all its versions) throughout the various subsidiaries of a media conglomerate, e.g. films, soundtracks or video games. Walt Disney pioneered synergistic marketing techniques in the 1930s by granting dozens of firms the right to use his Mickey Mouse character in products and ads, and continued to market Disney media through licensing arrangements. These products can help advertise the film itself and thus help to increase the film's sales. For example, the Spider-Man films had toys of webshooters and figures of the characters made, as well as posters and games. The NBC sitcom 30 Rock often shows the power of synergy, while also poking fun at the use of the term in the corporate world. There are also different forms of synergy in popular card games like Yu-Gi-Oh!, Cardfight!! Vanguard, and Future Card Buddyfight.\n\nWhen multiple sources of information taken together provide more information than the sum of the information provided by each source alone, there is said to be a synergy in the sources. This in contrast to the case in which the sources provide less information, in which case there is said to be a redundancy in the sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "17441700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17441700", "title": "Timber Lodge Steakhouse", "text": "Timber Lodge Steakhouse\n\nTimber Lodge Steakhouse is a privately owned American steakhouse chain with two locations in Minnesota. Formerly a public company, it had eighty-five locations at its peak.\n\nTimber Lodge Steakhouse Inc. was founded under the name Minnesota Steakhouse in September 1991 in Burnsville, Minnesota. The founder of Minnesota Steakhouse, Doron Jensen, changed the name to Timber Lodge in 1995 to make it more marketable in other areas of the country. After the founder split off due to conflicts with his business partner, the company grew from 16 Minnesota locations to 85. Restaurants ranged from New York to Arizona under mainly the name Timber Lodge Steakhouse, with a couple exceptions (Paul Bunyans Steakhouse in New York).\n\nBad locations have plagued the company and it has dwindled back down to a few Minnesota restaurants. All locations outside the state of Minnesota have closed. The chain operated 18 locations when it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 2006.\n\nIn August 2008 Taher Inc. acquired Timber Lodge Steakhouse Inc. Minnetonka-based Taher Inc., led by founder and CEO Bruce Taher, provides foodservice management for schools, senior-housing facilities and corporate cafeterias in 10 states. “They have really good food,” Bruce Taher said about Timber Lodge. “They cook from scratch, which fits our culture of chef-driven restaurants, and I think they provide a good value to customers.” Bob Campbell, who was part of the previous ownership group that consisted of 10 local investors, said it’s a good deal. “I think it’s a very positive change for Timber Lodge, our employees and our customers, and in the long run for our vendors and everyone else involved,” he said. Timber Lodge was down to ten locations by the time of its sale to Taher.\n\nIn November 2009, restaurants closed in St. Cloud, MN, and Rochester, MN. As a result of the closings, a judge levied a $3.57 million judgment against Timber Lodge for not fulfilling its leases. The Fargo, ND, location closed its doors on July 24, 2010. The Sioux Falls, SD, location also closed late July 2010.\n\nThe Duluth location closed permanently on January 1, 2016. Owner Bruce Taher cited lack of customer parking, high rent, and the restaurant's large footprint as reasons for the closing. The Duluth restaurant had been located in the Waterfront Plaza building in Canal Park for 20 years. Timber Lodge now has only two remaining locations: Bloomington and Owatonna.\n"}
{"id": "4451026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4451026", "title": "University of Waterloo School of Accounting and Finance", "text": "University of Waterloo School of Accounting and Finance\n\nThe School of Accounting and Finance (SAF) at University of Waterloo is a \"professional school\" within the Faculty of Arts. The School was established in 1985 under the name 'School of Accountancy'. Its name was changed in 2008 to better reflect its program offering. Today, nearly 1000 students are enrolled in the School's programs. In September, 2009 a new building was officially opened to house the School.\n\nThe School of Accounting and Finance offers the largest accounting and finance undergraduate cooperative education (co-op) program in Canada.\n\nThe School's Master of Accounting (MAcc) Program allows students to complete all required CPA modules within 8 months, and is only open to students who complete the School's undergrad programs. MAcc graduates only need to challenge (and pass) the Common Final Examination and accumulate the required professional experiences in order to become a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA). MAcc and industry experiences gained from co-op is well-known among Canadian accounting and finance industries.\n\nThe School of Accounting and Finance offers four undergraduate programs, two graduate programs and one doctoral program. Additionally, the School jointly administers one undergraduate program and one graduate program with the Faculty of Mathematics and one undergraduate program with the Faculty of Science.\n\nBachelor of Accounting and Financial Management Co-op (BAFM):\n\nMathematics/Chartered Professional Accountancy Co-op (Math/CPA):\n\nBiotechnology/Chartered Professional Accountancy Co-op (Biotech/CPA):\n\nBachelor of Computing and Financial Management (BCFM):\n\nMaster of Accounting (MAcc):\n\n\nMaster of Taxation (MTax):\n\nMaster of Quantitative Finance (MQF):\n\nPhD in Accounting:\n\nThe School of Accounting & Finance has had success in its students and faculty research. Notably, many students who have challenged the Common Final Examination achieves honour roll as well as gold medal (Ontario and National). With co-operative education, many students secured full-time employment before graduation. In 2017, 100% of MTax graduates were employed before graduation, while 98% of AFM, Biotech/CPA, Math/CPA and MAcc students found employment within 6 months after graduation. The co-op employment rate has been consistently at around 97% to 100% with the students placed in Big Four accounting firms, chartered banks, government, non-profit organizations, and non-financial institutions with roles such as staff accountant, financial analyst, tax analyst, investment banker, private equity analyst, data science intern and trader.\n\nAccording to QS World University Rankings, School of Accounting and Finance ranks 101-150 globally in 2018.\n\nIn 2016, School of Accounting & Finance students won the global annual CFA Institute Research Challenge. The CFA Institute Research Challenge leverages the efforts of over 140 CFA member societies, 3,500 member volunteers, and more than 5,000 students from over 1,000 universities. The CFA Institute Research Challenge requires student teams (1 team per university) to research and analyze a publicly-traded company and then write a research report on their assigned company with a buy, sell, or hold recommendation. \n\n<small> National Gold Medal means the student also received the Ontario Gold Medal.\n"}
{"id": "54910323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54910323", "title": "Vern Miyagi", "text": "Vern Miyagi\n\nVern T. Miyagi was an administrator responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency (HI-EMA) from September 11, 2015 to January 30, 2018. Before that he was executive officer at Hawaii EMA. He is a retired United States Army major general with over 37 years service. In January 2018 he took responsibility for the false issue of a warning of nuclear attack on Hawaii even though it was not him who mistakenly issued the warning. He resigned on January 30, 2018, in response to the false alarm. \n\n"}
{"id": "30532135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30532135", "title": "Ville Miettinen", "text": "Ville Miettinen\n\nVille Ilmari Miettinen (Born June 5, 1975 in Geneva, Switzerland) is a Finnish serial entrepreneur and computer programmer. Miettinen was the co-founder and CTO of\nHybrid Graphics, a graphics technology company acquired by NVIDIA in 2006. Miettinen is a founding partner at Lots, one of the accelerators in the Finnish governmental Vigo Programme. Miettinen is also the CEO and co-founder of the crowdsourcing technology company Microtask.\n\nMiettinen is the chairman of the board of the ACM SIGGRAPH Helsinki Chapter, an advisory board member of IGDA Finland, a referrer at the European pre-seed venture fund HackFwd, and a startup mentor at Aalto Venture Garage. He has held board seats in a number of graphics and gaming related companies, including Fake Graphics, Xiha, Recoil Games, Ardites (merged with Symbio ), and Cowboy Rodeo. He is also a technical advisory board member at the fabless semiconductor company Movidius and a referrer with the European pre-seed investment company HackFwd.\n\nMiettinen was actively involved in the Khronos Group, participating in the standardization of OpenGL ES, OpenVG and OpenKODE, as well as in the Java Community Process where he contributed to the JSR-184, JSR-297, and JSR-239 standards. He is the co-author of the SurRender 3D engine and the dPVS occlusion culling middleware.\n\nMiettinen is a frequent lecturer at various universities and industry events, such as Game Developers Conference, SIGGRAPH, EUROGRAPHICS and CrowdConf. He also contributes to different blogs related to crowdsourcing and entrepreneurship.\n\nMiettinen is an avid hobbyist photographer.\n"}
{"id": "1717878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1717878", "title": "Zhongguancun", "text": "Zhongguancun\n\nZhongguancun (), or Zhong Guan Cun, is a technology hub in Haidian District, Beijing, China.\n\nIt is geographically situated in the northwestern part of Beijing city, in a band between the northwestern Third Ring Road and the northwestern Fourth Ring Road. Zhongguancun is very well known in China, and is often referred to as \"China's Silicon Valley\".\n\nZhongguancun has only existed since the 1950s and only became a household name in the early 1980s. The first person who envisioned the future for Zhongguancun was Chen Chunxian, a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), who came up with the idea for a Silicon Valley in China after he visited the U.S. as part of a government-sponsored trip. The location of the Chinese Academy of Sciences within Zhongguancun reinforced, and perhaps was in part responsible for the technological growth in this area.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and still today, Zhongguancun was known as \"electronics avenue,\" because of its connections to information technology and the preponderance of stores along a central, crowded street.\n\nZhongguancun was officially recognized by the central government of China in 1988. It was given the wordy name \"Beijing High-Technology Industry Development Experimental Zone.\"\n\nThe current designation Zhongguancun refers commonly to the original site. However, officially (as of 1999) Zhongguancun has become the \"Zhongguancun Science & Technology Zone.\" It is a zone with seven parks, including Haidian Park, Fengtai Park, Changping Park, Electronics City (in Chaoyang), Yizhuang Park, Desheng Park, and Jianxiang Park.\n\nThe original Zhongguancun is now known as the Haidian Park of the Zhongguancun Zone. The area and environs, however, remain the same.\n\nHailong Market, Guigu Market, Taipingyang Market, Dinghao Market and Kemao Market are the five prominent IT and electronics markets. They are technology bazaars, famous for their \"shops with a shop\", where prices are easily but grudgingly bargained. Zhongguancun shops mainly deal in PC-compatible hardware, peripherals and software. AppleCentre and Apple Experience Centre are also close by.\n\nA very particular sight to visit is the Haidian Christian Church, designed by Hamburg-based architects Gerkan, Marg and Partners.\n\nDue to the proximity and participation of China's two most prestigious universities, Peking University and Tsinghua University, along with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, many analysts elsewhere are optimistic about Zhongguancun's future prospects.\n\nNotable high schools in Zhongguancun include Affiliated High School of Peking University and High School Affiliated to Renmin University of China.\n\nThe State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs (SAFEA) has its headquarters in Zhongguancun.\n\nThe most famous companies that grew up in Zhongguancun are Stone Group, Founder Group, and Lenovo Group. They were all founded in 1984-85. Stone was the first successful technology company to be operated by private individuals outside the government of China. Founder is a technology company that spun off Peking University. Lenovo Group spun off from Chinese Academy of Sciences with Liu Chuanzhi, a hero of Zhongguancun and current Chairmain, eventually taking the helm. Lenovo purchased IBM's PC division with $1.75 billion in 2005, making it the world's third-largest PC maker. Both Founder and Lenovo Group maintain strong connections to their academic backers, who are significant shareholders.\n\nAccording to the 2004 Beijing Statistical Yearbook, there are over 12,000 high-tech enterprises throughout Zhongguancun's seven parks, with 489,000 technicians employed.\n\nEastdawn Corporation is in the Sinosteel building.\n\nMany world-renowned technology companies built their Chinese headquarters and research centers in Zhongguancun Technology Park, such as Google, Intel, AMD, Oracle Corporation, Motorola, MySpace, Sony, Solstice, and Ericsson. Microsoft has built its Chinese research headquarters in the park that costs $280 million and can accommodate 5000 employees, which was completed in April, 2011, and now houses Microsoft Research Asia.\n\nThe development center of Loongson, which is China's first general-purpose microprocessor design, is also in the Zhongguancun area.\n\nIn addition, many conferences are held in this location, including the annual ChinICT conference - which is the largest Information technology Development and Entrepreneurship event in China.\n\nBeijing Subway Line 4 runs through the Zhongguancun area with stops at Zhongguancun Station and Haidianhuangzhuang Station. Haidianhuangzhuang is also a transfer station with Line 10. In addition to the subway, Zhongguancun is served by many of Beijing's public buses- 26, 302, 304, 307, 332, 333, 355, 365, 384, 386, 466, 498, 549, 579, 584, 601, 608, 611, 614, 630, 634, 641, 653, 671, 681, 689, 696, 697, 699, 717, 740, 913, 944, 982, 983, 特4, 特6, 特9, 特15, 特18, 夜8, 夜9, 运通105, 运通106, 运通109, 运通110, and 运通113.\n\n\n"}
