{"id": "21639127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21639127", "title": "A. F. Salahuddin Ahmed", "text": "A. F. Salahuddin Ahmed\n\nA. F. Salahuddin Ahmed (24 September 1924 – 19 October 2014) was a Bangladeshi historian, humanist and rationalist thinker.\n\nAhmed was born in Motihari, Bihar. He came from an educated Bengali Muslim family. His father Abu Ahmed Faizul Mohi, paternal grandfather Moulvi Ahmed, one of the early Bengali Muslim high-ranking administrators in British India, and maternal grandfather Azizul Haque, (who is credited with having a major contribution to the development of Henry Classification System of fingerprint method) were all students of Presidency College, Calcutta.\n\nHe received his I.A. from Surendranath College, (formerly Ripon College), and B.A. (Hons.) in history from Presidency College (now Presidency University). He completed his first M.A. in history from Calcutta University, and then a second M.A. in history from University of Pennsylvania, and his Ph.D. in history from the School of Oriental and African Studies at University of London (1961).\n\nAhmed started his teaching career in 1948 as a lecturer at Jagannath College, Dhaka. Later, he was a lecturer, reader, and then professor of history at Rajshahi University. He was also a professor of history at Jahangir Nagar University and Dhaka University, the job from which he retired in 1984. In 1963, Ahmed was invited by the American Historical Association as a visiting lecturer in South Asian history at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Chicago. He was also UNESCO Cultural Fellow at Kyoto University, Japan in 1956. Ahmed was also associated with Independent University, Bangladesh as Professor of National Culture and Heritage, and served as the president of the National Association of Social Sciences of Bangladesh, and chairman of the United Nations Association of Bangladesh.\n\nAhmed was married to Hamida Khanom, who was one of the very few early Muslim graduates (I.A. and B.A.) from Bethune College, Calcutta. She completed her M.A. from Calcutta University, and then a second B.A. (Hons.) from University College London. She retired as Principal of Home Economics College, Dhaka. Hamida provided support and inspiration to Ahmed in his professional career throughout their long 60 years of married life.\n\nThe following quote from the review of one of Ahmed's book: \"Perspectives on History, Society and Politics\" published by Readers Service, Kolkata, 2001, aptly captures his views and reputation \n\nIn 2012, Ahmed contributed a chapter, entitled \"Bangladesh, Present, and Future Prospects\" in a memorial book in honor of his younger deceased brother, Fakhruddin Ahmed, a career diplomat,and twice Foreign Secretary of Bangladesh, titled, \"Regional Cooperation and Globalization: Bangladesh, South Asia and Beyond edited by Dr. Zillur Rahman Khan and Dr. Meghna Guha Thakurta\", where he makes a case for appreciating historical perspectives of social and political events:\nIn 2004, Ahmed in collaboration with Bazlul Momin Choudhury, published a comprehensive editorial volume on the history of Bangladesh, entitled \"Bangladesh:National Culture and Heritage: An Introductory Reader\", which gives an overview of the land, society, culture and religions, and history of the peoples of Bangladesh.\n\nSome other notable books in English and Bengali written by Ahmed are:\n\n\nHe has also contributed many articles in professional journals.\n\nAhmed's interest and involvement in social service is reflected by his work for the Red Cross during the turbulent period of Partition of India, and his association with the Radical Democratic Party founded by M.N.Roy, and his active involvement in Ahmed Memorial Foundation established by family members dedicated to the educational and social welfare of their ancestral village of Bashbaria in Faridpur, Bangladesh. He maintained an active life until the day he died, serving as the National Professor, writing and publishing articles, giving media interviews. He maintained worldwide contacts with his students, and professional acquaintances, as well as with their children and grandchildren, as many of them continued to seek him out for advise and support, as did his own family, and his house served as intellectual, social, and family gathering place during his lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "50940484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50940484", "title": "Anton van Hooff", "text": "Anton van Hooff\n\nAntonius Jacobus Leonardus (Anton) van Hooff (born 1943) is a Dutch historian of antiquity, author and a former docent. From 2009 until 2015, he chaired the freethinkers association De Vrije Gedachte.\n\nIn 1971, Van Hooff graduated with the dissertation \"Pax romana: een studie van het Romeinse imperialisme\" (\"Pax Romana: a Study of Roman Imperialism\"). Until 2008, Van Hooff was docent in ancient history at the Radboud University Nijmegen. He specialises in classical antiquity, and regularly publishes in various newspapers and magazines. He wrote several books, including \"Nero & Seneca\", \"Athene\" (\"Athens\") and \"Marcus Aurelius\".\n\nVan Hooff is an atheist, a republican and a member of the Republican Society. On 3 December 2014, Van Hooff held the first ever Hans van den Bergh Lecture of the New Republican Society in De Balie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40479225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40479225", "title": "Arab National Council", "text": "Arab National Council\n\nThe Arab National Council was an alliance of once warring Arabian tribes formed after the victorious uprising against nearly 400 years of Ottoman rule over Syria. T. E. Lawrence was instrumental in establishing this provisional Arab government under King Faisal, Lawrence had hoped to bring about independence from foreign colonialism by uniting the Arabs. Faisal's rule as king, however, came to an abrupt end in 1920, after the battle of Maysaloun, when the French Forces of General Gouraud, under the command of General Mariano Goybet, entered Damascus, destroying Lawrence's dream of an independent Arabian rule over Syria; the council disbanded in the 1930s.\n\n"}
{"id": "52318808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52318808", "title": "Bank of New York Hoard", "text": "Bank of New York Hoard\n\nThe Bank of New York Hoard is the name given to identify a treasure trove of several thousand Fugio Cents that were discovered at the bank. Sometime in 1788, a keg of Fugio cents were acquired by the bank and stored in the basement. The coins were forgotten about until they were rediscovered in 1856, this time at the bank's current location. At that time the coins were placed in cotton bags and put away until a final rediscovery of the coins was made in 1926. The coins were then given out as souvenirs and keepsakes to clients until 1948 when the American Numismatic Society examined the remaining 1,641 coins. Several of the coins were donated to the society while others were sold to collectors. All of the coins found were in mint state condition, most with brown toning. The find was important to collectors who wished to obtain a mint state example of the coin.\n\nThe bank kept 819 of the remaining coins which range in grade from mint state to corroded due to past water damage while in storage. Despite the merger which led to the bank's closure in 2007, it was reported in 2013 that the coins still remain on the property. The owners have refused to distribute the remaining coins, and have kept them for historical value and appreciation.\n"}
{"id": "46864669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46864669", "title": "Basic Encyclopedia", "text": "Basic Encyclopedia\n\nThe Basic Encyclopedia is an encyclopedia of the United States Air Force that lists places that are targets for bombing. It was begun in 1946 during the Cold War as the Bombing Encyclopedia and included over eighty-thousand potential targets around the world during the Cold War. This included their B.E. number (which consisted of an eight digit identifier), a brief description, longitude and latitude, elevation, category (i.e. military, industrial, or an airfield).\n\nOperation Dropshot\n"}
{"id": "5501300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5501300", "title": "Bikrampur", "text": "Bikrampur\n\nBikrampur (\"City of Courage\") was a pargana situated south of Dhaka, the modern capital city of Bangladesh. In the present day it is known as Munshiganj District of Bangladesh. It is a historic region in Bengal. It was a part of the Bhawal Estate.\n\nAshoka, the emperor of the Maurya Dynasty, ruled all of major parts of Bengal from ca. 269 BC to 232 BC. Being a devotee of Gautama Buddha, he propagated Buddhism across his kingdom which included Bikrampur to the east. Following the high ideals of this religion, Pala Kings came to Bikrampur to rule the region.\n\nThe second ruler of Pala Empire, Dharmapal, built a Buddhist monastery in Bikrampur during his reign in 770–810. After his death, his son, Devapala ruled this area until 850 CE. Then the region is successively ruled by Vigrahapala I, Narayanapala, Rajyapala, Gopala II, Vigrahapala II, Mahipala, Naya Pala, Vigrahapala III, Mahipala II, Shurapala II, Ramapala, Kumarapala, Gopala III and Madanapala. Pala empire disintegrated in 1174 weakened by attacks of the Sena dynasty.\n\nDuring the rule of Srichandra (reigned 930 – 975 AD), the administrative centre of the Chandra kingdom was established at Bikrampur.\n\nA copper-plate inscription from the time of the ruler Vijay Sen (ruled 1097–1160), founder of Sen dynasty, was found in Barrackpore, in 1911. In this inscription, Bikrampur was mentioned as the capital of that region. It continued to be the capital throughout the, Sena Dynasty. In 1205, Turkic invader Bakhtiyar Khalji defeated the then-ruler Lakshman Sen in Nadia. Lakshman fled to Bikrampur. His two sons Vishwarup Sen and Keshab Sen kept ruling from here until 1230. But the copper-plate inscriptions during their reign do not mention Bikrampur as the capital.\nAnother Hindu ruler, Danuj Rai, defeated a successor of Keshab Sen and started ruling from here. In early 1280 he moved the capital to Suvarnagrama (later named Sonargaon).\n\nEmperor Akbar established Bikrampur as one of the 52 parganas of Sonargaon sarkar in Bengal subah during his administrative reforms in 1572–1580. During his time, Chand Rai and Kedar Rai were the Zamindars of Bikramapur. In the expeditions against Bara-Bhuiyans, Mughal Subahdar Man Singh killed Kedar Rai in early 1600s.\n\nIn post-Aurangzeb era, during the time of Nawab Murshid Quli Khan, Bikrampur was divided into eight taluks – \"Bhagyakul\", \"Sreenagar\", \"Maijpara\", \"Sinhapara\", \"Taltala\", \"Sirajdikhan\", \"Louhojong\" and \"Baligaon\". Each taluk was represented by one Zamindar. Muhammad Azim Khan became the Zamindar of Louhajong who held the title of \"Khan Bahadur\". Gobinda Prasad Roy became the Zamindar of Maijpara.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "240520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240520", "title": "Bloody Assizes", "text": "Bloody Assizes\n\nThe Bloody Assizes were a series of trials started at Winchester on 25 August 1685 in the aftermath of the Battle of Sedgemoor, which ended the Monmouth Rebellion in England.\n\nThere were five judges – Sir William Montague (Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer), Sir Robert Wright, Sir Francis Wythens (Justice of the King's Bench), Sir Creswell Levinz (Justice of the Common Pleas) and Sir Henry Pollexfen, led by Lord Chief Justice George Jeffreys.\n\nOver 1,000 rebels were in prison awaiting the trials, which started in Winchester on 26 August. The first notable trial was that of an elderly gentlewoman named Dame Alice Lyle. The jury reluctantly found her guilty, and, the law recognising no distinction between principals and accessories in treason, she was sentenced to be burned. This was commuted to beheading, with the sentence being carried out in Winchester market-place on 2 September 1685.\n\nFrom Winchester the court proceeded through the West Country to Salisbury, Dorchester and on to Taunton, before finishing up at Wells on 23 September. More than 1,400 prisoners were dealt with and although most were sentenced to death, fewer than 300 were hanged or hanged, drawn and quartered. The Taunton Assize took place in the Great Hall of Taunton Castle (now the home of the Museum of Somerset). Of more than 500 prisoners brought before the court on the 18/19 September, 144 were hanged and their remains displayed around the county to ensure people understood the fate of those who rebelled against the king.\n\nSome 800–850 men were transported to the West Indies where they were worth more alive than dead as a source of cheap labour (the novel \"Captain Blood\", and the later movies based on it, graphically portray this punishment). Others were imprisoned to await further trial, although many did not live long enough, succumbing to 'Gaol Fever' (typhus), which was rife in the unsanitary conditions common to most English gaols at that time. A woman named Elizabeth Gaunt had the gruesome distinction of being the last woman burnt alive in England for political crimes.\n\nJeffreys returned to London after the Assizes to report to King James, who rewarded him by making him Lord Chancellor (at the age of only 40), 'For the many eminent and faithful services to the Crown'. Jeffreys became known as \"the hanging judge\".\n\nAfter the Glorious Revolution, Jeffreys was incarcerated in the Tower of London, where he died in 1689. His death was probably due to his chronic medical history of kidney and bladder stones leading to an acute infection, kidney failure and possibly toxaemia.\n\nWriting as recently as 1929, Sir John C. Fox said:\nEven to the present day, the mothers of West Somerset control their unruly offspring by threatening to send for 'Judge Jeffreys'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6485533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6485533", "title": "Center for American Archeology", "text": "Center for American Archeology\n\nThe Center for American Archeology, or CAA, is an independent non-profit 501(c)(3) research and education institution located in Kampsville, Illinois, USA, near the Illinois River. It is dedicated to the exploration of the culture of prehistoric Native Americans and, to a lesser extent, the European settlers who supplanted them.\n\nFounded on what is often referred to as the \"Nile of North America,\" the region surrounding the confluence of the Mississippi and the Illinois rivers, the Center for American Archeology specializes in North American pre-Columbian cultures of the area. Due to successive settlement along the rivers, the area is particularly rich in Woodland Period artifacts, especially those of the Middle Woodland Hopewell culture, and later Mississippian culture. The Center has been associated with years of excavation at the Koster Site in Greene County, Illinois. Researchers have uncovered evidence of more than 7,000 years of human habitation, back to the Early Archaic period (8000 BC to 1000 BC). \n\nThe center is located about 90 minutes north of St. Louis and the Cahokia Mounds near Collinsville, Illinois. It uses the Kamp Store as the site of the CAA's Visitor’s Center and Museum. The early 1900s mercantile building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49786591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49786591", "title": "Clean Wehrmacht", "text": "Clean Wehrmacht\n\nThe term Clean Wehrmacht (), Clean Wehrmacht legend (\"Legende von der sauberen Wehrmacht\"), or Wehrmacht's \"clean hands\" denotes the myth that the Wehrmacht was an apolitical organization along the lines of its predecessor, the Reichswehr, and was largely innocent of Nazi Germany's war crimes and crimes against humanity, behaving in a similar manner to the armed forces of the Western Allies. This narrative is false, as shown by the Wehrmacht's own documents, such as the records detailing the executions of Red Army commissars by frontline divisions, in violation of the laws of war. While the Wehrmacht largely treated British and American POWs in accordance with these laws (giving the myth plausibility in the West), they routinely enslaved, starved, shot, or otherwise abused and murdered Polish, Soviet, and Yugoslav civilians and prisoners of war. Wehrmacht units also participated in the mass murder of Jews and others.\n\nThe myth began in the late 1940s, with former Wehrmacht officers and veterans' groups looking to evade guilt, and a few German veterans' associations and various far-right authors and publishers in Germany and abroad continue to promote such a view. Modern defenders often downplay or deny the Wehrmacht's involvement in the Holocaust, largely ignore the German persecution of Soviet prisoners of war, and emphasise the role of the SS and the civil administration in the atrocities committed.\n\nThe Waffen-SS, in turn, attempted to benefit from the clean Wehrmacht myth by their veterans declaring the organisation to have virtually been a branch of the latter, and to have fought as \"honourably\" as it. Its veteran organisation, HIAG, attempted to cultivate a myth of their soldiers having been \"Soldiers like any other\".\n\nIn the eyes of the Nazis, the war against the Soviet Union would be a war of annihilation (\"Vernichtungskrieg\"). The racial policy of Nazi Germany viewed the Soviet Union (and all of Eastern Europe) as populated by non-Aryan \"Untermenschen\" (\"sub-humans\"), ruled by \"Jewish Bolshevik conspirators\". Accordingly, it was stated Nazi policy to kill, deport, or enslave the majority of Russian and other Slavic populations according to the \"Generalplan Ost\" (\"General Plan for the East\"). The plan consisted of the \"Kleine Planung\" (\"Small Plan\") and the \"Große Planung\" (\"Large Plan\"), which covered actions to be taken during the war and actions to be implemented after the war was won, respectively. The plans entailed killing the vast majority of the native population among the nations it would be implemented through starvation and deportations.\n\nBefore and during the invasion of the Soviet Union, German troops were heavily indoctrinated with anti-Bolshevik, anti-Semitic and anti-Slavic propaganda. Following the invasion, Wehrmacht officers told their soldiers to target people who were described as \"Jewish Bolshevik subhumans\", the \"Mongol hordes\", the \"Asiatic flood\" and the \"Red beast\". Many German troops viewed the war in Nazi terms and regarded their Soviet enemies as sub-human. A speech given by General Erich Hoepner indicates the disposition of Operation Barbarossa and the Nazi racial plan, as he informed the 4th Panzer Group that the war against the Soviet Union was \"an essential part of the German people's struggle for existence\" (\"Daseinskampf\"), and stated, \"the struggle must aim at the annihilation of today's Russia and must therefore be waged with unparalleled harshness.\"\n\nThe Potsdam Conference held by the Soviet Union, United Kingdom and United States from 17 July to 2 August 1945 largely determined the occupation policies that the defeated country was to face. These included demilitarisation, denazification, democratization and decentralization. The Allies' often crude and ineffective implementation caused the local population to dismiss the process as a \"noxious mixture of moralism and 'victors' justice'\".\n\nFor those in the Western zones of occupation, the arrival of the Cold War undermined the demilitarization process by seemingly justifying a major part of Hitler's foreign policies — the \"fight against Soviet bolshevism\". In 1950, after the outbreak of the Korean War, it became clear to the Americans that a German army would have to be revived to help face off against the Soviet Union. Both American and West German politicians were faced with the prospect of rebuilding the armed forces of the Federal Republic.\n\nFrom 5 to 9 October 1950, a group of former senior officers, at the behest of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, met in secret at Himmerod Abbey (hence the memorandum's name) to discuss West Germany's rearmament. The participants were divided into several subcommittees that focused on the political, ethical, operational and logistical aspects of the future armed forces. The \"internal structure\" working group was headed by General Hermann Foertsch, who in the 1930s had been a protege of Field Marshal Walter von Reichenau, one of the most ardent National Socialists in the Wehrmacht, and would go on to become one of Adenauer's advisers on defense.\n\nThe resulting memorandum included a summary of the discussions at the conference and bore the name \"Memorandum on the Formation of a German Contingent for the Defense of Western Europe within the framework of an International Fighting Force\". It was intended as both a planning document and as a basis of negotiations with the Western Allies.\n\nThe participants of the conference were convinced that no future German army would be possible without the historical rehabilitation of the Wehrmacht. Thus, the memorandum included these key demands:\n\nAdenauer accepted these propositions and in turn advised the representatives of the three Western powers that German armed forces would not be possible as long as German soldiers remained in custody. To accommodate the West German government, the Allies commuted a number of war crimes sentences.\n\nA public declaration from Dwight D. Eisenhower followed in January 1951, stating that there was \"a real difference between the German soldier and Hitler and his criminal group\". Chancellor Adenauer made a similar statement in a Bundestag debate on the Article 131 of the \"Grundgesetz\", West Germany's provisional constitution. He stated that the German soldier fought honorably, as long as he \"had not been guilty of any offense\". Article 231 expressly declared that all who served in the military and the civil service before 1945 were entitled to their full pensions, a measure that did not touch directly upon the memory of the past, but did suggest the majority of those who served the National Socialist regime were honorable people who deserved their pensions. These declarations laid the foundation of the myth of the \"clean Wehrmacht\" that reshaped the West's perception of the German war effort.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of World War II, there was much sympathy in Germany with those accused of war crimes and in the late 1940s and 1950s there was a flood of polemical books and essays demanding freedom for the \"so-called 'war criminals'\", the very phrasing of which implied that those convicted of war crimes were in fact innocent. The German historian Norbert Frei wrote that the widespread demand for freedom for the \"so-called war criminals\" was \"an indirect admission of the entire society's enmeshment in National Socialism\"; the war crimes trials were a painful reminder of the nature of the regime that many ordinary people had identified with, and in this context, there was an overwhelming demand for the rehabilitation of the Wehrmacht. This is in part because the Wehrmacht could trace its descent back to the Prussian Army and before that to the army founded in 1640 by Frederich Wilhelm, the \"Great Elector\" of Brandenburg, making it an institution deeply rooted in German history, which presented problems for those who wanted to portray the Nazi era as a \"freakish aberration\" from the course of German history. In part, there were so many Germans who served in the Wehrmacht or who had family members who served in the Wehrmacht that there was a widespread demand to have a version of the past that allowed them to \"...honor the memory of their fallen comrades and to find meaning in the hardships and personal sacrifice of their own military service\".\n\nAfter penalties were imposed in the immediate postwar period as part of the denazification process in the late 1940s to the early 1950s, the Federal Republic of Germany's population and politicians sharply criticized the practice of \"victor's justice\" and the theory of collective guilt (in the opinion of historian , it was never the Allies' intention to impose collective punishment). Thus, the German Federal Parliament began to enact amnesty laws under which many war criminals saw their sentences commuted.\n\nThe changing political climate in the immediate post-war period aided in the creation of the image of a \"clean Wehrmacht\", according to which, unlike the criminal killings carried out by police and SS groups, the Wehrmacht had fought fairly under the provisions of the international law of war without involvement in the crimes of the Nazi regime. Until the 1980s and 1990s, there was something of a division of labor among historians; military historians writing the history of World War II focused on the campaigns and battles of the Wehrmacht and treated the genocidal policies of the Nazi regime in passing, if at all, while historians of the Holocaust and of the occupation policies of Nazi Germany largely avoided writing about the Wehrmacht. This was not the result of a conspiracy, but rather due to the training of historians for different fields. Military historians tended to focus on battles and campaigns to the exclusion of everything else, and as a result, most military historians were not interested in the Wehrmacht's role in occupation policies in the areas it had conquered.\n\nThe subject of the Holocaust was largely avoided outside of Israel in the 1950s and 1960s. The governments of Britain, the United States, France, Canada, and other countries had either imposed restrictions on Jewish refugees in the 1930s or in the case of Canada barred all Jewish refugees outright, and most did not wish to be reminded that many of the Jews turned away in the 1930s were subsequently killed in the Holocaust. As such, historians outside of Germany were not much interested in the Holocaust and there were almost no studies done of the Wehrmacht's involvement in the \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\" as the subject of the \"Final Solution\" itself attracted almost no interest until the 1960s. The Austrian-born American historian Raul Hilberg found that in the 1950s, few in the United States wanted to hear about the Holocaust. Successive publishers rejected his later critically acclaimed 1961 book \"The Destruction of the European Jews\", telling him that nobody in America was interested in the topic.\n\nFormer German officers published their memoirs and historical studies, which also contributed to the myth. The chief architect of this body of work was the former chief of the \"Oberkommando des Heeres\", Franz Halder. He informally supervised the work of other officers who, during and since their prisoner-of-war captivity, had worked in the Operational History (German) Section of the U.S. Army Historical Division and had exclusive access to the captured German war archives stored in the United States.\n\nIn a case of the vanquished writing history, starting in 1947, the U.S. Army Historical Division assembled a large group of former Wehrmacht generals under the leadership of Halder to write a multi-volume history of the Eastern Front so that U.S. Army officers could learn about the tactics of the Red Army, albeit as the Germans perceived them. The work of the Halder committee, which was a quasi-official history, was extremely influential on the memory of the war beginning in the 1950s, and the picture that the Halder committee drew of a highly professional, apolitical Wehrmacht that had nothing to do with war crimes, was widely accepted by historians.\n\nThe German historian Wolfram Wette described Halder as having a \"decisive influence in West Germany in the 1950s and 1960s on the way the history of the Second World War was written, by virtue of the knowledge he had amassed working on the studies assembled by the Historical Division, which he shared with both professional historians and interested amateurs and veterans\". Other Wehrmacht leaders like Erich von Manstein and Heinz Guderian published best-selling memoirs that depicted the Wehrmacht as victims of Hitler rather than as his followers; a group of professional, apolitical officers who were quietly opposed to National Socialism who were led into the abyss by their deranged \"Führer\" through no fault of their own. Given this picture, discussion of war crimes by the Wehrmacht was completely avoided as it would damage the picture of the Wehrmacht as \"victims\" of Hitler.\n\nCaptain Basil Liddell Hart, was an influential British military historian who endorsed the \"clean Wehrmacht\" myth, writing with admiration that the Wehrmacht had been the mightiest war machine ever built and that it would have won the war if only Hitler had not interfered with the conduct of operations. Between 1949 and 1953, Liddell Hart was deeply involved in a campaign urging the release of Manstein after a British military court convicted him of war crimes on the Eastern Front, which he called a gross miscarriage of justice. The trial of Manstein was a turning point in the British people's perception of the Wehrmacht; Manstein's lawyer, the Labour MP Reginald Paget, waged a well-oiled and energetic public relations campaign for amnesty for his client, enlisting many politicians and celebrities in the process.\n\nOne celebrity who joined Paget's campaign, the left-wing philosopher Bertrand Russell, wrote in a 1949 essay that the enemy of the time was the Soviet Union, not Germany, and given the way in which Manstein was a hero to the German people, that it was necessary for the wartime Western Allies to free him for the needs of the Cold War. Liddell Hart joined Paget's campaign for freedom for Manstein, and as Liddell Hart often wrote on military affairs in British newspapers, he played a key role in winning Manstein his freedom in May 1953. Given Liddell Hart's general sympathy with the Wehrmacht, he depicted it in his books and essays as an apolitical force that had nothing to do with the crimes of the National Socialist regime, a subject that did not much interest Liddell Hart in the first place.\nIn arguing for Manstein, Paget had made mutually exclusive contradictory arguments. Namely while knowing nothing of Nazi crimes, Manstein and other Wehrmacht officers simultaneously opposed the Nazi crimes that they were supposedly unaware of. Paget lost the Manstein case with the British military tribunal presided over by Lieutenant General Frank Simpson finding Manstein supported Hitler's \"war of annihilation\" against the Soviet Union, enforced the Commissar Order, and as commander of the 11th Army assisted \"Einsatzgruppe\" C with massacring Jews in the Ukraine, sentencing him to 18 years in prison for war crimes.\n\nThe British historian Tom Lawson wrote that Paget was greatly helped by the fact that most of the British \"Establishment\" naturally sympathized with the traditional elites in Germany, seeing them as people much like themselves, and for members of the \"Establishment\" like Archbishop George Bell the mere fact that Manstein was a German Army officer and a Lutheran who went to church regularly \"..was enough to confirm his opposition to the Nazi state and therefore the absurdity of the trial\". During and after the trial of Manstein, Paget denied that Operation Barbarossa was a \"war of annihilation\", down-playing the racist aspects of Barbarossa and the campaign to exterminate Soviet Jews as the supposed fonts of Communism, and instead argued that \"the Wehrmacht displayed a large degree of restraint and discipline in circumstances of unimaginable cruelty\".\n\nWette wrote that most Anglo-American military historians had a strong admiration for the \"professionalism\" of the Wehrmacht, and tended to write about the Wehrmacht in a very admiring tone, largely accepting the version of history set out in the memoirs of former Wehrmacht leaders. Wette suggested this \"professional solidarity\" had something with the fact that most military historians in the English-speaking world tended to be conservative former Army officers who had a natural sympathy with conservative former Wehrmacht officers, whom they saw as men much like themselves. He suggested that this sympathy did not extend to Nazi Germany itself, but only the picture of a \"professional\" Wehrmacht committed to Prussian values that were allegedly inimical to Nazism, while displaying super-human courage and endurance against overwhelming odds, especially on the Eastern Front.\n\nJennifer Foray, in her 2010 study of the Wehrmacht occupation of the Netherlands, asserts that \"Scores of studies published in the last few decades have demonstrated that the Wehrmacht's purported disengagement with the political sphere was an image carefully cultivated by commanders and foot soldiers alike, who, during and after the war, sought to distance themselves from the ideologically driven murder campaigns of the National Socialists.\" Following the return of the last war prisoners from Soviet captivity, on 7 October 1955, 600 former members of the Wehrmacht and the Waffen-SS swore a public oath in the Friedland Barracks that received a strong media reaction:\n\nBefore the German people and the German dead and the Soviet Armed Forces, we swear that we have neither committed murder, nor defiled, nor plundered. If we have brought suffering and misery on other people, it was done according to the Laws of War.\n\nIn 2011, the German military historian Wolfram Wette called the \"clean Wehrmacht\" thesis a \"collective perjury\". After the return of former Wehrmacht documents by the Western Allies to the Federal Republic of Germany, it became clear through their evaluation that it was not possible to sustain the narrative any longer. Today, the extensive involvement of the Wehrmacht in numerous Nazi crimes is documented, such as the Commissar Order.\n\nWhile advocates of the thesis of a \"clean Wehrmacht\" were attempting to describe the Wehrmacht as independent of the Nazi ideology, and denying their war crimes or trying to put individual cases into perspective, more recent historical research from the 1980s and 1990s based on witness statements, court documents, letters from the front, personal diaries and other documents demonstrates the immediate and systematic involvement of the armed forces in many massacres and war crimes, especially in Eastern and Southeastern Europe, and the Holocaust.\n\nIn the 1990s and 2000s, two exhibitions by the Hamburg Institute for Social Research exposed these crimes to a wider audience and focused on the hostilities as a German-Soviet extermination war. The historian Christian Hartmann found in 2009 that \"no one needs to expose the deceptive myth of the 'clean' Wehrmacht any further. Their guilt is so overwhelming that any discussion about it is superfluous.\"\n\nIn 2000, historian Truman Anderson identified a new scholarly consensus centering around the \"recognition of the Wehrmacht's affinity for key features of the National Socialist world view, especially for its hatred of communism and its anti-semitism\". Similarly, Ben Shepherd writes that \"Most historians now acknowledge the scale of Wehrmacht involvement in the crimes of the Third Reich\", but maintains that \"there nevertheless remains considerable debate as to the relative importance of the roles which ideology, careerism, ruthless military utilitarianism, and pressure of circumstances played in shaping Wehrmacht conduct.\" Finally, in his last book, he points out how the \"German army's moral failure and military failure\" were always reinforcing each other, whether at a time of success after the victory over France, or in the days of defeat and destruction.\n\nGerman historian Felix Römer has studied the implementation of the Commissar Order by the Wehrmacht, publishing his findings in 2008 as \"Der Kommissarbefehl. Wehrmacht und NS-Verbrechen an der Ostfront 1941/42 [The Commissar Order: The Wehrmacht and the Nazi Crimes on the Eastern Front, 1941–1942]\". It was the first complete account of the implementation of the order by the combat formations of the Wehrmacht. Römer's research showed that 116 out of 137 German divisions on the Eastern Front filed reports detailing the killing of the Red Army's political commissars. In total, at least 3430 were murdered by the regular troops (and not by the SS) according to the order until May 1942, possibly up to 4,000 men.\n\nRömer finds that the records \"prove that Hitler's generals had executed his murderous orders without scruples or hesitations\", thereby shattering vestiges of the myth of the clean Wehrmacht. Historian Wolfram Wette, reviewing the book, notes that the sporadic objections to the order were not fundamental, but rather driven by military necessity and that the cancellation of the order in 1942 was \"not a return to morality, but an opportunistic course correction\". Wette concludes: \"The Commissar Order, which has always had a particularly strong influence on the image of the Wehrmacht because of its obviously criminal character, has finally been clarified. Once again the observation has confirmed itself: the deeper the research penetrates into the military history, the gloomier the picture becomes.\"\n\nAmerican historian Waitman Wade Beorn has examined the complicity of the Wehrmacht in the crimes committed against Jews and other civilians in Belarus, from autumn 1941 to early in the subsequent winter, in his work \"Marching into Darkness: The Wehrmacht and the Holocaust in Belarus\". The book investigates how so-called anti-partisan warfare was connected to the Holocaust via its ideological targeting of \"Jewish-Bolsheviks\". Beorn concludes that, because anti-semitic sentiment was lower in Belarus, the Army Group Centre Rear Area, compared to the territories of Army Group North and Army Group South Rear Areas, the army troops played a significantly larger role in direct persecution of Jews during the period that he studied.\n\nBeorn addresses other aspects of Wehrmacht crimes, including its support for the starvation policy of Nazi Germany, the Hunger Plan. He examines what he calls \"the progressive complicity\" of the Wehrmacht, highlighting the main developments that led to the escalation of violence, such as the Mogilev Conference in September 1941. Organised by the commander of the Army Group Centre Rear Area, it brought together the German Army, the SS and the Order Police commanders for an \"exchange of experiences\" and marked a dramatic escalation of violence against the civilian population. The book looks at several military formations and how they responded to orders to commit genocide and other crimes against humanity. Beorn finds that those who refused were only lightly punished (or not punished at all), debunking the claims of German veterans that they had to participate under threat of death.\n\nThe \"Clean Wehrmacht\" myth parallels the emergence of a comparable narrative surrounding the participation of the Royal Italian Army during World War II. Emerging under the post-war republic, it was argued that \"the Italians were decent people\" (\"Italiani, brava gente\") in contrast to the ideologically motivated and brutal Germans. In particular, it argued that the Italians had not participated in the Nazi persecution of Jews in occupied parts of Eastern Europe. A notable example of the phenomenon in popular culture is the film \"Mediterraneo\" (1991), directed by Gabriele Salvatores. This avoided \"a public debate on collective responsibility, guilt and denial, repentance and pardon\" but has recently been challenged by historians.\n\nAnalogus to the Wehrmacht Waffen-SS veterans and their organisation, HIAG, tried to portray the Waffen-SS as a clean fighting force, innocent of war crimes. HIAG argued that the Waffen-SS was the fourth branch of the Wehrmacht and had fought honourably, like it made out the Wehrmacht to have done, and that all crimes committed by the SS, which even HIAG could not deny, had been carried out by the other, non-combat branches of the organisation. HIAG thereby combined the Waffen-SS into the myth of the \"Clean Wehrmacht\", something former Wehrmacht officials were not particularly comfortable about. This claim was not particularly successful as the Waffen-SS had been declared a criminal organisation after the war and, apart from the war crimes it committed, almost 60,000 of its members had served at some stage as concentration camp guards or in \"Einsatzgruppen\". High level support from German post-war politicians like Konrad Adenauer and Franz-Josef Strauss led however to the myth of the Waffen-SS soldiers having been \"Soldiers like any other\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38553900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38553900", "title": "Dirk Ballendorf", "text": "Dirk Ballendorf\n\nDirk Anthony Ballendorf (April 22, 1939 – February 4, 2013) was an American-born Guamanian historian and professor of Micronesian studies. Ballendorf, a specialist on Micronesian culture, politics, current affairs, and history, authored more than two hundred articles and eleven books during his career. He taught in the Department of Micronesian Studies at the University of Guam for more than thirty years.\n\nBallendorf was born on April 22, 1939, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He earned a bachelor's degree at West Chester State College, presently West Chester University Ballenforf joined the Peace Corps after college and attended Ateneo de Manila University while serving in the Philippines. He next completed a master's degree in history from Howard University in Washington D.C. and a doctorate in planning and administration from Harvard University in Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1977, Ballendorf became the president of the College of Micronesia on Pohnpei in the present-day Federated States of Micronesia. He served as president until 1979, when he joined the faculty of the University of Guam as director of the Micronesian Area Research Center. Ballendorf served as director of the Micronesian Area Research Center from 1979 to 1984 and again from 2004 until 2007.\n\nBallendorf authored eleven books and more than two hundred articles on the history of Micronesia. One of his best known works was \"The Secret Guam Study\", a book which documents the political status of Guam. Ballendorf co-authored the book with a Washington D.C. lawyer Howard P. Willens, who had served as the legal counselor for the Marianas Political Status Commission beginning 1972 through the completion of the negotiations which created the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in 1978. To obtain the classified documents needed for the book, Ballendorf filed requests under the Freedom of Information Act in November 2000. When the requests were denied, Ballendorf and Willens filed suit against the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of the Interior, and the U.S. Department of Defense, all of which soon provided the requested documents. Ballendorf and Willens used the documents to write their book, which was published in 2004.\n\nBallendorf died in his sleep on the morning of February 4, 2013, at the age of 74. He was survived by his wife, Francesca \"Paka\" Remengesau, who was from Palau; daughter, Heidi, the marketing administrator for the Guam Waterworks Authority, and son, Hans.\n\n"}
{"id": "55931477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55931477", "title": "Early Nusantara coins", "text": "Early Nusantara coins\n\nBy the 10th-century, Java had one of the most complex economies in Southeast Asia. Despite the importance of rice farming which acts as the chief tax income for the Javanese courts, the influx of sea trade in Asia between the 10th and 13th centuries forced a more convenient currency to the Javanese economy. During the late 8th-century, ingots made of gold and silver were introduced. These are the early Nusantara coins.\n\nIn Java, rice farming was still the main occupation of most households in the village. This continued to provide most of the tax income of the Javanese courts. Later in the period, the northern coasts of Java and Bali became the main center of an affluent export trade in local agricultural products and manufacture, as well as spices e.g. sandalwood from eastern Indonesia. These trade brought goods to distant markets e.g. China and India. The increasing intensity of trade called for a convenient currency in the Javanese society.\n\nDuring the late 8th-century money took the form of ingots made of gold and silver. These are the earliest recorded coins in Indonesia. The currency in Indonesia is based on weight; the most common units were the \"kati\" of , \"tahil\" of , \"masa\" and \"kupang\" . These units were legal tender for tax payments. The \"kati\", \"tahil\", \"masa\" and \"kupang\" units remained in use up until the Dutch period. Several trade jargons were introduced in this period, e.g. the Javanese \"wli\", which became the modern Indonesian \"beli\" (\"buy\"), and the Sanskrit \"wyaya\", modern Indonesian term \"biaya\" (\"expenses\") appears in two inscriptions both dated 878 AD. The Javanese coins have no parallels with the style of Indian coins. Most of the Javanese coins were found within the Javanese kingdom of Shailendra.\n\nMost gold coins of 9th and early 10th century Java are stamped with the character \"ta\" in nagari script on one side, an abbreviation of \"tahil\". The same character remained on coins until the Kediri period in the 12th-century. Gold coins were usually made in the shape of cubes, carefully crafted and very uniform in size and gold content.\n\nCentral Javanese silver coins have very different shapes compared with the gold coins. Most silver coins are round and known as \"sandalwood flower\" coins referring to the four-petaled flower (quatrefoil) found on the reverse. The silver coins lasted from the early 9th until the 14th century. The same flower appears on one side of older silver ingots from central Java; the other side is stamped with a flowing vase design, which is never found on coins. The observe of the sandalwood flower coins are stamped with the nagari character \"ma\" (abbreviation of \"masa\"). \n\nUnlike the gold coins, the silver coins changed rapidly. In only one century, the character \"ma\" degenerated very quickly, perhaps because it is different with the Javanese Kawi letter for \"ma\". The shape also changed; in the early 10th-century, the shape of one masa changed from a thick and flat coin to a thin and cup-shaped coin. The silver coins were presumably served as small change. The silver coins were probably created by smiths in the market for use in market transactions.\n\nIn Java, beginning at the end of the 10th-century and onwards, more and more Chinese copper coins were imported in greater quantities, as well as Chinese cash and local copies, known as \"pisis\". These coins began to displace the silver alloy coins as small denomination currency. By the mid-14th century, there were so many \"pisis\" in circulation, that the Javanese court recognized them as official currency for tax purposes. \n\nIn Sumatra, coins were first minted in the 11th-century. Similar sandalwood flower coins like those in Java were discovered in Sumatra, but more of these were made of gold, electrum, and silver alloys. Several 11th-century sites in Sumatra including Barus, Bengkulu, and Muara Jambi were abundant in gold coins, while silver is rare. Similar coins were also found in South Thailand. The Sumatran silver alloy examples are very well made compared with the Javanese silver coins. \n\nCuriously, no coins have been found at Palembang, said to be the center of the Sriwijayan economy. This suggests that coins may have had a limited role in the early Sriwijayan economy. International trades might have been conducted either through the mechanism known as tributary trade or in other form known as administered trade. In administered trade system, equivalencies were established between commodities through diplomatic negotiations rather than bargaining.\n\nThe gold piloncitos of the Philippines are a late offshoot of the Indonesian gold coinage, while the bean-like silver \"namo\" series of the Malay peninsula was presumably an offshoot of the silver and may have evolved into the bullet (Pod-Duang) coinage of Sukhothai in Thailand.\n\n"}
{"id": "596834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596834", "title": "Enugu", "text": "Enugu\n\nEnugu ( ; ) is the capital of Enugu State in Nigeria. It is located in southeastern Nigeria. The city had a population of 722,664 according to the 2006 Nigerian census. The name \"Enugu\" is derived from the two Igbo words \"Énú Ụ́gwụ́\" meaning \"hill top\" denoting the city's hilly geography. The city was named after Enugwu Ngwo, under which coal was found.\n\nSince the 17th century the location of present-day Enugu has been inhabited by the Nike ( ) subgroup of the Igbo people; one of Enugu's neighbourhoods still retains the village's old name Ogui. In 1900 the Southern Nigeria Protectorate was established by the colonial administration of the British Empire. The discovery of coal by the colonialists led to the building of the Eastern Line railway to carry coal from the inland city to the port of Port Harcourt, a city created for this purpose located south of what was called Enugu Coal Camp. Enugu was then renamed simply \"Enugu\" and developed as one of the few cities in West Africa created from European contact. By 1958 Enugu had over 8,000 coal miners. there are no significant coal mining activities left in the city.\n\nEnugu became the capital of the Eastern Region after Nigeria's independence in 1960; a succession of territorial adjustments in 1967, 1976 and 1991 led to Enugu becoming the capital of what is now Enugu State. On 30 May 1967 Enugu was declared the capital of the short-lived Republic of Biafra; for this Enugu is known as the \"capital of Igboland.\" After Enugu was captured by the Nigerian armed forces, the Biafran capital was moved to Umuahia.\n\nIndustries in the city include the urban market and bottling industries. Enugu is also one of the filming locations for directors of the Nigerian movie industry, dubbed \"Nollywood\". Enugu's main airport is the Akanu Ibiam International Airport. The main educational establishment in the city is the Enugu campus of the University of Nigeria based in Nsukka, a town north of Enugu and in the same state.\n\nThe first settlement in the Enugu area was the small Nike village of Ogui, which was present since the era of the Atlantic Slave Trade. \"Nike\" in the Igbo language means \"with strength or power.\" It was through slave raiding that the Nike people acquired most of their lands, which were mostly unsettled. The Nike used slaves for a defence strategy, placing slave camps at the edge of their territories so that it was harder for an enemy to access the free born. The Nike people were allied to the Aro people who formed the Aro Confederacy (1690—1901) which was an Igbo organisation that controlled slave trading in the Enugu area. Along with the Aro people who came to trade from Arochukwu in the south were the Hausa people who came to trade from the north. The Hausa traders provided horses to the Nike which were used for rituals by the Igbo. Both the Aro and Hausa migrated back and forth to what is now the city of Enugu and were considered foreigners to the area.\n\nA British campaign to invade Arochukwu and open up the hinterland for British military and political rule was carried out in 1901. A war between the British and Aro officially started on 1 December 1901 lasting till 24 March 1902 when the Aro were defeated. The Aro Confederacy ended and the rest of Aro dominated areas was added to The Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, declared in 1900. Europeans first arrived in the Enugu area in 1903 when the British/Australian geologist Albert Ernest Kitson led an exploration of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate to search for especially valued mineral resources under the supervision of the Imperial Institute, London. By 1909 coal was found under the village of Enugwu Ngwo in the Udi and Okoga areas and by 1913 the coal was confirmed to be in quantities that would be viable commercially. By 1914 the colonial government had already merged the Northern and Southern Nigeria Protectorate to form the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria.\n\nIn 1915 the British began talks with the indigenous people of the land that would become Enugu about its acquisition in order to lay the Eastern Line railway and to build a colliery. The first houses built in the area were in a temporary settlement consisting of Igbo traditional mud housing inhabited by a W.J. Leck and some other Europeans on Milliken Hill. Another settlement known as \"Ugwu Alfred\" (Igbo: Alfred's Hill) or \"Alfred's Camp\", inhabited by an Alfred Inoma (a leader of indigenous labourers from Onitsha) and his labourers, was located on a hillside. After the land acquisition by the British, Frederick Lugard, the Governor-General of Nigeria at the time, named the colliery built at the bottom of the Udi Hills \"Enugu Coal Camp\" to distinguish it from Enugwu Ngwo which overlooks the city from atop a scarp on Enugu's west. The first coal mine in the Enugu area was the Udi mine opened in 1915 which was shut down two years later and replaced with the Iva Valley mine. Enugu became a major coal mining area and the only significant one in West Africa. The Eastern Line railway connecting Enugu with Port Harcourt was completed in 1916 in order to export the coal through its seaport of which the city was created for this purpose. Enugu became one of the few cities in West Africa created out of contact with Europeans. By 1916 parts of Enugu reserved for Europeans were set up by the colonial government. The area now known as the Government Reserved Area (GRA) became the European Quarters located north of the Ogbete River; alongside this was a section developed for African residents located south of the river. The built-up area of Enugu comprised these two areas, and by 1917 the city officially gained township status. On the African side of the city a rapid influx of migrant workers sparked the development of squatter camps on the Udi Hills near the coal mines and the Iva Valley.\n\nIn 1938 Enugu became the administrative capital of the Eastern Region. The number of employed coal miners in Enugu grew from 6,000 (of mostly Udi men) in 1948 to 8,000 in 1958. Enugu's population rose sharply with its industrialisation; the population of the city reached 62,000 in 1952. Mining in Enugu was sometimes turbulent, as demonstrated by the events of 18 November 1949 when 21 striking miners were shot and killed and 51 wounded by police under British governance. The massacre that came to be known as \"The Iva Valley Shooting\" fuelled nationalist or \"Zikist\" sentiments among most Nigerians, and especially amongst Eastern Nigerians. \"Zikisim\" was a post World War II movement that was created out of admiration for Nnamdi Azikiwe who was a prominent nationalist of the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons (NCNC). The shooting was right after a period of unrest when miners were angered by the belief that their full pay was being held back by the colliery management, a belief that was pushed by the nationalist press. Many of the Zikists tried to use the Iva Valley shooting to fuel their nationalistic agenda and push the British imperial administration, out of Nigeria.\n\nEnugu became a municipality in 1956 with Umaru Altine its first mayor. After four years passed, Nigeria gained its independence in 1960. On 27 May 1967 the Nigerian government divided the Western, Northern and Eastern Region into 12 states and Enugu was made the capital of the new East Central State. On 30 May 1967 Enugu was declared the capital of the short-lived Republic of Biafra, the latter created out of the eastern Nigerian states of East Central, Cross River and Rivers. Biafra was declared by Ojukwu because of Eastern Nigeria after their members were attacked injured and killed in a series of ethnic attacks launched by some other ethnic groups in other parts of the country following the first military coup executed by mostly Igbo generals, in which top northern Nigerian leaders among others were terminated. The main rivals of the mostly Igbo Eastern Nigerians were the Hausa/Fulani people of Northern Nigeria. A northern headed war on the secession (1967—1970) and continuous attacks on the Igbos in other part of Nigeria lead Igbos from northern and western Nigeria to return to their \"native\" areas in eastern Nigeria and Enugu became a destination. Radio Biafra, alternatively the Voice of Biafra (formerly the Eastern Nigerian Broadcasting Service), was based in Enugu; it was from here that the Biafran leader, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, broadcast speeches and propaganda to Biafrans and Nigeria. Because of the war, Enugu witnessed a decrease in the number of non-Igbo, specifically non-eastern Nigerian residents. On 4 October 1967 the Nigerian military bombarded Enugu with artillery just outside its boundaries before capturing it a week later, shortly after this Umuahia became the new capital of the republic. Years after the Republic of Biafra reverted to Nigeria, Enugu is still regarded as the \"Capital of Igboland.\"\n\nEnugu resumed in 1970 as the capital of the East Central State after the republic was dissolved. On 3 February 1976 the East Central State was made into two new states, Imo and Anambra; there were then 19 states in Nigeria; Enugu was the capital of Anambra. On 27 August 1991 the military dictatorship of Ibrahim Babangida divided the old Anambra State into two new states, Enugu State and Anambra State. Enugu remained as the capital of the newly created Enugu State, while Awka became the capital of the new Anambra State.\n\nDespite its name meaning \"hill top\" in the Igbo language, Enugu lies at the foot of an escarpment and not a hill. Enugu is located in the Cross River basin and the Benue trough and has the best developed coal in this area. Precambrian basement rock in this region is overlaid with sediments bearing coal from the Cretaceous and Tertiary age. Coal seams in the Enugu coal district measure between in thickness and the reserves have been estimated to be more than 300 million tonnes. Enugu's hills at the extreme may reach an elevation of . Highlands surrounding Enugu for the most part are underlain by sandstone, while lowlands are underlain by shale. Much of the escarpment stretching from Enugu to Orlu has been ravaged by soil and gully erosion. Other geological features in Enugu include the Nike Lake near which the Nike Lake Hotel has been built. The Ekulu, Asata, Ogbete, Aria, Idaw and Nyaba rivers are the six largest rivers located in the city. The Ekulu River is the largest body of water in Enugu urban and its reservoir contributes to part of the city's domestic water supply.\n\nEnugu is located in a tropical rain forest zone with a derived savannah. The city has a tropical savanna climate (Köppen: \"Aw\"). Enugu's climate is humid and this humidity is at its highest between March and November. For the whole of Enugu State the mean daily temperature is . As in the rest of West Africa, the rainy season and dry season are the only weather periods that recur in Enugu. The average annual rainfall in Enugu is around , which arrives intermittently and becomes very heavy during the rainy season. Other weather conditions affecting the city include Harmattan, a dusty trade wind lasting a few weeks of December and January. Like the rest of Nigeria, Enugu is hot all year round.\n\nThe tallest building in Enugu's Central Business District (CBD) is the African Continental Bank (ACB) tower with six stories. The tower was built in the late 50s for the African Continental Bank Limited which was founded by Nnamdi Azikiwe who became the first president of Nigeria after the country's independence from the United Kingdom on October 1960. The opening of the building took place on 30 April 1959. Other tall buildings include the Hotel Presidential opened on August 1963. The seven story building contains 100 rooms and is located in the Independence Layout. Hotel Presidential cost $2.5 million to build and was commissioned by the government of what was then the Eastern Region to serve visiting businessmen, officials and tourists. In the middle of Enugu is the Michael Okpara Square, dedicated to the premier of the former Eastern Region Michael Okpara. Beside the square is located the Enugu State Government House, Enugu State House of Assembly and Enugu State Judiciary Complex.\n\nEnugu's coal mines are dotted around on the outskirts of the city, a majority of which are closed. The Colliery Camp mines are located in the Iva Valley which is near the neighbouring town of Ngwo and Hilltop of Enugu. The Iva Valley coal mine is accessed through the Iva Valley road linking Enugu with Ngwo. Other coal mines are located in the Ogbete and Coal Camp layouts; these mines are located on the periphery of the city near the Iva Valley as well.\n\nArchitectural design in Enugu's early years was in the hands of the British colonial administration; Enugu's architecture was consequently very European. English cottage housing and Victorian houses were used for housing Europeans and Nigerian colonial civil servants in the early 20th century until Europeans started trying to adapt their architecture to the tropical climate. Some other examples of these European styles are visible in churches of the colonial era, such as the Holy Ghost Cathedral with its Greco-Roman stained glass windows depicting Europeans. Enugu's roads were reflective of its British rule; much of the city's narrow roads in the GRA have been preserved dating back to the incorporation of the city itself. Low rent one bedroom flats in Enugu and other Nigerian cities are known as \"face-me-I-face-you\" for the way a group of flats face each other and form a square where a compound entrance is led into.\n\nEnugu city covers three local government areas: Enugu East, Enugu North and Enugu South. A Local Government Council exists for each of these seats that manages sectors including primary education and health; an elected Executive Chairman and a group of elected Councillors form the Local Government Council that heads each Local Government Area. Enugu South is split between its rural and urban parts when electing an Executive Chairman. The Executive Chairmen include Paul Ogbe for Enugu South Urban, Theresa Egbo for Enugu South Rural, Emeka Nnamani for Enugu North, and Christopher Ugwu for Enugu East; these chairmen represent their LGA's in the Enugu State House of Assembly. The Ministry of Lands, Survey and Town Planning (at the state level) and the Local Planning Authority (at the local government level) are responsible for the administration of urban lands and town planning. Government House, Enugu is where the government of the state is based. On the federal level, the city of Enugu is split between two congressional areas; Enugu North/South represented by Chukwuegbo Ofor and Enugu East represented by Gilbert Nnaji; both representatives are in the People's Democratic Party (PDP) as is Ifeanyichukwu Ugwuanyi (GBURU-GBURU), the governor of Enugu State.\n\nAccording to the 2006 Nigerian census, the Enugu metropolitan area has an estimated population of 722,664. This estimate along with population estimates of other Nigerian cities have been disputed with accusations of population inflation and deflation in favour of the northern part of the country. The population of Enugu is predominantly Christian, as is the rest of southeastern Nigeria. Like the rest of Nigeria most people in Enugu speak Nigerian English alongside the dominant language in the region. In this case the dominant language is Igbo. Nigerian English, or \"pidgin\" (a mix of English and indigenous words) is often used because of ethnic diversity and sometimes because of the diversity of dialects in the Igbo language. In cultural and linguistic terms Enugu is within the Northern cluster of the Igbo region which includes other towns and cities like Awka and Nsukka.\n\nThe indigenous people of Enugu include the Ogui Nike who live in the areas surrounding Hotel Presidential, Obiagu, Ama-Igbo, Ihewuzi and Onu-Asata. Other groups include the Awkunanaw people, who live mainly in the Achara Layout and Uwani areas. The Enugwu Ngwo people live in Hilltop on the west of the city with their farm lands sprawling all over the valley. Other Nike people live around the Abakpa, Iji-Nike, and Emene areas of the city. Most of the non-indigenous people of Enugu are migrants from other parts of the Igbo cultural area. After the majority Igbo, the Yoruba people are another significant ethnic group found present in Enugu; other groups include the Hausa, Kanuri, Ijaw, and Fulani people.\n\nEnugu's crime rate rose in 2009 as kidnapping and armed robbery rates increased in southeastern Nigeria specifically between September and December. The Enugu State government sought to check the high kidnapping rates by passing a bill on February 2009 that made kidnapping by the use of a weapon a capital offence; the bill was passed by the Enugu House of Assembly unanimously. 1,088 arrests were made in the city between September and December 2009; 270 of these were in September, 303 were in October, 295 in November and 220 were in December. 477 of these detainees were accused of committing capital offences which included kidnapping. The motives of kidnappers in Enugu are primarily financial and some ransoms went into the millions of Naira. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor of Enugu State, Dan Nwomeh, had his ransom set as high as ₦500 million (3.3 million US Dollars ), dropping to ₦200 million and then ₦50 million before he was released without a ransom being paid because of the refusal of the government to negotiate with the kidnappers. Much of the crime in Enugu and the rest of Nigeria has been attributed to unemployment.\n\nAs a Northern Igbo city, Enugu shares cultural traits with its neighbouring towns. Two important Igbo traditional festivals take place in Enugu annually; the Mmanwu festival and the New yam festival. The Mmanwu festival takes place in November and features various types of masquerades that each have a name. This festival is held at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium as a parade of carnival-like masquerades that are accompanied by music and it is supported by the Enugu Council of Arts and Culture. The second important Igbo festival, the New yam festival known as 'iwa ji', is held between August and October marking the harvesting and feasting of the new yam. The yam is a root vegetable that is the staple crop and a cultural symbol for the Igbo people. Recently created festivals include the Enugu Festival of Arts which is managed by the Enugu Council of Arts and Culture. The festival highlights African culture and traditions and it is here that the Enugu Council of Arts and Culture included the Mmanwu parade as part of the events. The Enugu Festival of Arts was started in 1986; it has modernised the Mmanwu festival by transferring it from its traditional village surroundings to the urban setting of Enugu. Diana, Princess of Wales was a notable spectator of Enugu's cultural shows when she visited the city in 1990.\n\nThe tourism industry in Enugu, managed by the Enugu State Tourism Board (ESTB), is small; however, the state government recognises a variety of historic and recreational sites. These sites include places like the Udi Hills, from which the majority of Enugu city can be viewed. The Polo amusement park is a funfair that is among the first generation of public parks in the city; other parks in the city include the Murtala Muhammed Park. Enugu's former coal mines, Onyeama and Okpara, are open to public visits. Some other spots include: The Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) Sculptural Garden and Art Gallery, the Eastern Region Parliamentary Building, the Old Government Lodge, and Enugu Golf course. Enugu Zoo is another attraction in the city. It is divided into the botanical garden and the zoological section. A National Museum is located near Enugu at its north, although it receives few visitors. It is managed by National Commission for Museums and Monuments (NCMM). Other galleries include the Bona Gallery.\n\nEnugu rose as an important centre for Highlife music in Nigeria in the 1950s. The Igbo dominated version of the genre grew out of earlier \"Igbo blues\" or \"palm wine music\" and further spread in popularity to the Southern Cameroons where Enugu had considerable influence in arts and culture in towns such as Limbe, Tiko and Douala. Some prominent musicians with origins in Enugu include Sonny Okosun, an afrobeat musician who was born and raised in Enugu and joined his first band The Postmen that was based in the city in 1965; Celestine Ukwu joined Michael Ejeagha's Enugu based Paradise Rhythm Orchestra in 1962 before creating his own band and had a recreational club in the city after the Nigeria Civil War; other musicians include 2Face Idibia; a Hip hop/R&B musician who partly grew up and studied music in the city. Other notable musicians originating from Enugu include rapper Phyno, Slowdog, William Onyeabor, and highlife musician Flavour N'abania.\n\nEnglish-language newspapers published and sold in Enugu include the \"Daily Star\", \"Evening Star\", \"The Renaissance\" and \"New Renaissance\". One of the earliest newspapers published in Enugu was the \"Eastern Sentinel\" published by Nnamdi Azikiwe's Zik Group in 1955, but failed in 1960. Among the city's television and radio stations are the Nigerian Television Authority's network affiliate (NTA Enugu) headquarters located at Independence Layout; and the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) network affiliate station (Radio Enugu) which broadcasts in English, Igbo, Efik, Ijaw and Tiv. Enugu State Broadcasting Service Television (ESBS-TV) is a state owned television broadcasting company which offers 18 hours of continuous broadcasting on weekends. Enugu, after Lagos is the preferred city for shooting films in Nigeria and a film production centre in the East. In 2007, Enugu hosted the first-ever film festival in the state, the Enugu International Film Festival. Held at Hotel Presidential, the festival's intent was to highlight Enugu as a \"film making hub\" in Africa including movie premiers and prizes for different film categories.\n\nSome of Nigeria's well-known writers were born and have lived in the city of Enugu. \nChinua Achebe, writer of Things Fall Apart lived in Enugu in 1958, the year the book was published. He again moved to the city during the Nigerian Civil War after escaping Lagos with his family. It was at this time that he met and became friends with Nigerian poet Christopher Okigbo where they started the publishing house Citadel Press, among its titles \"How the Dog was Domesticated\" and \"How the Leopard Got His Claws\". Okigbo lived in Enugu during the early months of the Nigerian Civil War. His home in Hilltop contained many of his unpublished writings which were mostly destroyed by bombing early in the war. Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, writer of Half of a Yellow Sun, a winner of the Orange Prize for Fiction in 2007, was born in Enugu in 1977 and grew up in Nsukka.\n\nThe Enugu Rangers, a first-division professional league association football team, is Enugu's home team that plays in the Nigerian Premier League and are based in the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium. Former Rangers players include Jay-Jay Okocha and Taribo West. Enugu's main sports centre is the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, named after Nnamdi Azikiwe, the first president of Nigeria. The stadium remained the centre of sports for the whole of the Eastern Region until the Nigerian Civil War broke out. At the war's end the stadium was refurbished. Enugu was a host for the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup games (24 October – 15 November) alongside Calabar and five other Nigerian cities with matches taking place at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium. Its hosting of the FIFA U-17 World Cup benefited Enugu through the renovation of the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, having had such things as a new artificial surface laid.\n\nNicknamed the \"Coal City\", Enugu's economy in the early 20th century depended on coal mining in the Udi plateau; this industry was the pushing force towards the city's growth. The Nigerian Coal Corporation has been based in Enugu since its creation in 1950 where it controlled coal mining. With the creation of the Eastern Line, Enugu was connected with the sea via Port Harcourt to its south and later connected to the city of Kaduna to Enugu's north. The Nigerian Civil War brought widespread devastation that forced a decline in coal production from damage or destruction of equipment. coal mining is no longer the major source of income and mines lay unused. Other minerals mined in Enugu include iron ore, limestone, fine clay, marble, and silica sand.\nIn Enugu most goods are sold in open markets or by street hawkers; a significant number of street hawkers in Nigeria are children. , around 44 under-16-year-olds (equally boys and girls) hawk on every street on every hour in Enugu. There are three main urban markets in Enugu: Ogbete Market, Awkunanaw Market and New Market. New Market is a major market for the sale of garri. Ogbete market is patronised by merchants from all over the surrounding area, including merchants from cities like Onitsha, Aguleri, Abakaliki and Aba. In Ogebete market non-food goods are also sold. Brewing and soft-drink bottling are among other industries in the city; there is also a Mercedes assembly plant as well as the production and manufacturing of machinery, pottery, tiles, steel, cement, asbestos, petroleum, and pharmaceuticals. For a period of time Sosoliso Airlines had its head office on the grounds of Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu.\n\nThe former Eastern Region was once famed for producing half the world's total output of palm kernels. Since the Nigerian Civil War production has markedly declined largely because the plantations and processing equipment were either damaged or destroyed. The production of other important cash crops such as cocoa, groundnut and groundnut oil, rubber, cassava, cotton and cotton seed and timber tumbled after the civil war and the subsequent oil boom years. Consequently, the area called Enugu State as well as the rest of Nigeria, which was once a self-sufficient net exporter in agricultural produce, must import food.\n\nEnugu has three main tertiary institutions: the Enugu State University of Science & Technology (ESUT); the University of Nigeria,Nsukka Campus (UNN)and Enugu Campus (UNEC); and the Institute of Management & Technology (IMT). Another notable tertiary institution in Enugu State is the Federal Cooperative College, Oji River (FCCO). \nThe city is also home to Our Saviour Institute of Science and Technology, a polytechnic. Some notable secondary schools in Enugu include the College of the Immaculate Conception (CIC) built in 1940, Holy Rosary College (HRC) built in 1943, Colliery Comprehensive Secondary school, Queen's Secondary School, Federal Government College, Royal Crown Academy, Nsukka and the University of Nigeria Secondary school. University Teaching Hospital (UNTH) Enugu, under the university of Nigeria, is another university located in the city.\n\nIn Enugu, health care services can be obtained at several institutions including the ESUT (Enugu State University of Science and Technology) Teaching Hospital; University of Nigeria, Enugu, Teaching Hospital; Park Lane General Hospital in the GRA; PMC (Peenok Medical Center) located on Ziks Avenue in Uwani; Hansa Clinic on Awolowo Street in Uwani; Niger Foundation Hospital and Diagnostic Centre on Presidential Close in the Independence Layout; and the Ntasi Obi Ndi no n'Afufu Hospital organization located on Enuguabor Street in the Trans-Ekulu layout, among others. Some of the specialist hospitals in Enugu include the Psychiatric Hospital Enugu and the National Orthopaedic Hospital Enugu (NOHE).\n\nMany of the hospitals in Enugu are privately run. The UNTH and the National Orthopaedic Hospital are among some of the government controlled hospitals in the city. The medical equipment for the UNTH was upgraded in 2009 as well as parts of the hospital which were renovated in the same year. Most hospitals in the city suffer from a poor standard of medical facilities available to them; many of the city's citizens travel abroad for medical care. However, hospitals have been aided by foreign organisations and by Enugu's community at home and abroad who have donated medicine and other medical equipment. The most developed government hospital in Enugu is the Park Lane Hospital. The governor has said that the state has bought some ambulance service vehicles in March 2010. Enugu State has established free medical care for pregnant women and for all children under 5 years of age in the state. The child healthcare programme, founded under the District Health System (DHS), was added to the states 2008 budget. Enugu State has a HIV/AIDS prevalence of 6.5%, one of the highest in the country.\n\nEnugu is located on the narrow-gauge Eastern Line railway linked to the city of Port Harcourt; the Enugu train station is by the side of the National Stadium; dating back to its coal-mining origins, it is located on Ogui Street. The main forms of transportation in the city are buses, taxi cabs and buses., \"Okada\" (motorcycles) once served as public transportation in the city until the state government banned them from this use in April 2009. Most transport enters and leaves the city through Enugu's Ogbete Motor Park, Garki Motor Park serves as a transport pick-up point as well. Unregistered taxis are known as \"Kabu Kabu\" and are differentiated with registered ones through the lack of yellow paint on the unregistered vehicles.\n\nIn 2009, Enugu introduced a taxi job scheme under 'Coal City Cabs' to help in the eradication of poverty in the city. 200 registered Nissan Sunny taxis, provided by the state government; and 200 registered Suzuki taxis, provided by the Umuchinemere Pro-Credit Micro Finance Bank, were given out on loan to unemployed citizens in the city who will operate as taxi drivers and will own the vehicles after payments are completed. 20 buses with the capacity for 82 passengers seated and standing were introduced as Coal City Shuttle buses on 13 March 2009 to run as public transport for Enugu urban.\n\nThe main airport in the state is the Akanu Ibiam International Airport which can be accessed by buses and taxis. Renovations began on 30 November 2009 to upgrade it to accommodate wide-bodied aircraft. These plans include extending the runway by to make it long; the runway will be widened from . It is estimated that the project will cost ₦4.13bn (27.3 million US Dollars ).\n\nThe A3, or the Enugu-Port Harcourt highway, was opened in the 1970s and links the two cities together by passing through Aba, a major urban settlement. The A3 goes further on past Enugu's north to link to the city of Jos via Makurdi. Two more highways, the A232 from Benin City, Asaba and Onitsha to Enugu's east and the A343 from Abakaliki to Enugu's west, makes Enugu the site of a major junction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "392629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=392629", "title": "Flags of the English Interregnum", "text": "Flags of the English Interregnum\n\nThere were a variety of flags flown by ships of the Commonwealth during the Interregnum of 1649–1660.\n\nAt sea, royalist ships continued to fly the Union Jack of 1606, while on 22 February 1649 the Council of State decided to send the parliamentary navy an order (signed by Oliver Cromwell on 23 February) that \"the ships at sea in service of the State shall onely beare the red Crosse in a white flag\" (viz., the flag of England).\nOn 5 March 1649 the Council further ordered \"that the Flagg that is to be borne by the Admiral, Vice-Admiral, and Rere-Admiral be that now presented, viz., the Armes of England and Ireland in two severall Escotcheons in a Red Flagg, within a compartment.\"\nA sole surviving example of a naval flag following this description is kept by the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich, others having fallen victim to the destruction of Commonwealth symbols at the Restoration of Charles II.\nScotland was formally reunited with England in 1654. According to Perrin (1922), the saltire of Scotland did not reappear on naval flags of the Commonwealth until 1658.\n\nIn 1658 Cromwell's personal standard as Lord Protector became the 'Standard for the General of his Highnesse fleet', while the Cross-and-Harp jack was replaced by the \"Protectorate Jack\", consisting of the royal Union Flag with the addition of the Irish Harp at the centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5097095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5097095", "title": "Fortunato de Felice, 2nd Count Panzutti", "text": "Fortunato de Felice, 2nd Count Panzutti\n\nFortunato Bartolommeo de Felice (24 August 1723 – 13 February 1789), 2nd Comte de Panzutti, also known as \"Fortuné-Barthélemy de Félice\" and \"Francesco Placido Bartolomeo De Felice\", was an Italian nobleman, a famed author, philosopher, scientist, and is said to have been one of the most important publishers of the 18th century. He is considered a pioneer of education in Switzerland, and a formative contributor to the European Enlightenment.\n\nFortunato Bartolomeo de Félice was born in Rome to a Neapolitan family as the eldest of six children on 24 August 1723. He was confirmed in 1733 in the parish of St. Celso e Giuliano. At the age of 12, he studied at Rome and Naples under the Jesuits, taught by the Franciscan Fortunato da Brescia.\n\nOn 28 May 1746 he was ordained by papal dispensation, whilst also teaching philosophy. Through his studies at the monastery of San Francesco in Ripa, he discovered a love of Physics, becoming friends with Celestino Galiani. In 1753, Galiani appointed de Félice chair of Ancient and Modern Geography, and the chair of experimental physics and mathematics at Naples University. There he became friends with the Prince Raimondo di Sangro who aided him in his translation of the physicist John Arbuthnot's works from Latin.\n\nAfter rescuing the imprisoned Countess Panzutti, Félice and his new wife fled to Bern, with the help of his friend Albrecht von Haller, due to religious persecution from the Roman Catholic Church in Rome. He then converted to Protestant.\n\nIn 1758, he founded with the Typographic Society of Bern, and was an Italian-speaking ( l'Estratto de la europea letterature until 1762) and a Latin ( l'Excerptum totius Italicae nec non Helveticae literaturae, to 1766) literary and scientific journal.\n\nIn 1762, after the death of the Countessa di Panzutti to influenza at Tscharner's residence Château Lansitz, he moved to Yverdon where he founded an educational institute for young people from all over Europe and a printing press. The latter quickly developed into one of the most distinguished in Switzerland, producing the Yverdon Encyclopedia, for which he is now famous. In, 1769 he became a citizen of Yverdon and thus Swiss.\n\nHe was married four times and had 13 children: in 1756 to Countess Agnese Arcuato, Countessa di Panzutti (1720-1759) (whereby his Earldom was received suo jure, confusing Arcuato's late husband is recorded as the first Count Panzutti), in 1759 to Susanne de Wavre Neuchâtel (1737-1769), in 1769 to Louise Marie Perrelet († 1774), and in 1774 to Jeanne Salomé Sinet.\n\nHe died in Yverdon-les-Bains.\n\nDe Felice is considered a significant contributor to education in Switzerland. As editor and translator of Burlamaqui's \"Principes du Droit Naturel\", his name became synonymous with natural law throughout Europe. His most important work is the \"Encyclopédie d'Yverdon\", which he headed as editor and for which he wrote more than 800 articles. From 1770 to 1780 he published 58 volumes, and as the \"Encyclopédie\" of Paris in a new version of the Protestant perspective.\n\nHis other work consists of half a dozen educational, philosophical and scientific books. He translated the works of René Descartes, d'Alembert, Maupertuis and Newton into Italian.\n\nIn de Felice's famous printing house, as well as the Encyclopedia, he translated into French works of Elie Bertrand, Charles Bonnet, Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui, Albrecht von Haller, Gabriel Seigneux de Correvon, Samuel-Auguste Tissot, Johann Joachim Winckelmann and other Enlightenment authors.\n\nThe two magazine projects of the Typographic Society Bern aimed at an international exchange of knowledge. This allowed Tscharner and de Felice to create a correspondent network all over Europe.\n\nAn 18th-century depiction of de Félice is held by the Achenbach Foundation in the San Francisco Museum of Fine Arts. A Latin and 18th century French inscription by one of his sons, Carolus de Félice reads:\n\n\n\n\nhttp://art.famsf.org/anonymous/fortunatus-de-felice-19633021935 - Link to the print in the Achenbach Foundation\n"}
{"id": "5895327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5895327", "title": "George of Resh'aina", "text": "George of Resh'aina\n\nGeorge of Resh'aina was a 7th-century Syriac historian. He was opposed to Maximus the Confessor, the defender of orthodoxy against monotheletism and wrote an unfriendly biography of him. This book also provides a glimpse into the events of his time.\n"}
{"id": "39127305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39127305", "title": "Gligorije Elezović", "text": "Gligorije Elezović\n\nGligorije \"Gliša\" Elezović (Vučitrn, Kosovo Vilayet, Ottoman Empire 18 January 1879 — Belgrade, Yugoslavia 17 October 1960) was a Serbian historian and member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts.Also, he was one of the founding members of the Serb Democratic League (see photograph), headed by Bogdan Radenković. In 1931 the Serbian Royal Academy (\"Srpska kraljevska akademija\") established a Committee for the Collection of Eastern Historical and Literary Sources, which employed scholars like Gligorije Elezović and Fahim Barjaktarević who were sent to archives in Istanbul to investigate Ottoman sources related to Serbian history. Elezović was a scholar from Skopje (then South Serbia) with a prolific record of publishing Ottoman documents, and trained in Albanian and Turkish languages. He compiled and published \"Rečnik kosovo-metohiskog dijalekta\" (Dictionary of Kosovo-Metohija dialect) in Belgrade in 1932.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16745772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16745772", "title": "Guglielmo Audisio", "text": "Guglielmo Audisio\n\nGuglielmo Audisio (1802 at Bra, Piedmont, Italy – 27 September 1882 in Rome) was an Italian Catholic priest and writer.\n\nGuglielmo Audisio was born January 27, 1802 and graduated with degrees in philosophy and theology from the University of Turin. After teaching for four years in the seminary of Bra, in 1837 he was appointed by King Carlo Alberto, Dean of the Ecclesiastical Academy of Superga, where he taught sacred eloquence, moral theology, canon law and institutions of Roman law. He was expelled from this office because he was opposed to the Piedmontese Government. Audisio was a fervent upholder of papal and Catholic rights against the political liberalism of Piedmont.\n\nIn 1848, along with Giacomo Margotti, he founded the newspaper, \"Armonia\" (\"Harmony\") in Turin. It was for this reason that he fell a victim to the anti-clerical influence which had deprived him of his post at Superga.\n\nHe then went to Rome, where Pope Pius IX appointed him professor at the Roman University, where he taught the law of nature and of nations. He was also appointed Canon of the Vatican Basilica. In Rome Audisio joined the liberal reformist Italian ecclesiastics, such as Monsignor Liverani, and tried to reconcile the new political and cultural needs of his time with Catholic tradition. He urged Catholics to exercise their right and duty against political revolutionaries and Mazzini, rejecting all forms of abstention.\n\nAt the time of the First Vatican Council he was suspected of Gallicanism, to the grief of his patron Pius IX, and his work on political and religious society in the nineteenth century was condemned by the Church. Audisio submitted to the condemnation of his book, but he warmly protested against the accusation of heterodoxy and disobedience.\n\nIn 1839, in Turin, he published a manual of sacred eloquence, his most noted work, which was issued in eight Italian and a French edition.\n\nHe also devoted himself to historical studies, especially relating to the history of the papacy.\n\nThe works of Audisio include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12252318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12252318", "title": "Halima Ferhat", "text": "Halima Ferhat\n\nHalima Ferhat is a Moroccan historian, specialist in the Middle Ages of the Maghreb, member of the \"comité scientifique des Rendez-vous de l'Histoire de Rabat\" and professor at the Mohammed V University. She was also Director of the Institute of African Studies in Rabat.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58574807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58574807", "title": "Helen C. Evans", "text": "Helen C. Evans\n\nHelen C. Evans is an American art historian and curator specializing in Byzantine art.\n\nShe has worked for the Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1991 and was co-curator along with William D. Wixom of the 1997 Byzantine exhibition there. She became a scholar devoted to the documentation of Byzantine art because according to her, \"Byzantine art is underrepresented because Byzantine history slowly disappeared from the way we look at the world. The empire ended at roughly the same moment that Columbus found the New World. When we do an exhibition like \"Interwoven Globe\" at the Met, it starts at 1500 and we don't look at the fact that Byzantium was on one of the great trade routes of the previous millennium and a half—or several millennia in fact. Until Columbus, you did not reach the spices of the orient; you did not reach the silks of China, without crossing the Eastern Mediterranean. ...When most academic scholarship really begins, Byzantium has been subsumed in the Ottoman Empire.\"\n\nIn 2018 she curated the exhibition \"Armenia!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11355398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11355398", "title": "Heritage Overlay", "text": "Heritage Overlay\n\nA Heritage Overlay or HO is one of a number of planning scheme overlays contained in the Victorian Planning Provisions, for use in planning schemes in Victoria, Australia. The heritage overlay schedule of each local government planning scheme lists sites of local and state significance (Victorian Heritage Register) but does not include sites on the Australian National Heritage List.\n\nThe Heritage Overlay is used to protect sites that have heritage value, meaning that individual buildings or whole urban precincts may be covered. The protection afforded by a Heritage Overlay varies in each instance, though the controls apply to built structures and their associated land. The minimum level of protection is afforded by the mere existence of the overlay and means that any work at all to the building or site will require a planning permit, ensuring that a higher level of scrutiny automatically occurs, regardless of any specific control measures cited. Exemptions from permits can be achieved via a site specific exclusion or an incorporated plan listed in the schedule to the overlay.\n\nEach planning scheme will have a set of maps which indicate the location of overlay controls. Associated with the maps is a schedule listing every individual overlay in that planning scheme according to the following criteria:\n\nAn easy to follow description of how to read a heritage overlay and the different related documents is found at the City of Ballarat Website - What is a Heritage Overlay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1765822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1765822", "title": "History of the Bulgarian language", "text": "History of the Bulgarian language\n\nThe History of the Bulgarian language can be divided into three major periods:\n\n\nBulgarian as a written South Slavic language that dates back to the end of the 9th century.\n\nOld Bulgarian was the first literary period in the development of the language. It was a highly synthetic language with a rich declension system as attested by a number of manuscripts from the late 10th and the early 11th centuries. Those originate mostly from the Preslav and the Ohrid Literary School, although smaller literary centers also contributed to the tradition. The language became a medium for rich scholarly activity — chiefly in the late 9th and the early 10th century — with writers such as Constantine of Preslav, John Exarch, Clement of Ohrid, Chernorizetz Hrabar and Naum of Preslav (Naum of Ohrid). Most of their works are preserved through later copies, many of which are from neighboring Balkan countries or Russia.\n\nThe name “Old Bulgarian” was extensively used in the late 19th and the first half of the 20th century synonymously with Old Church Slavonic to describe the literary language of a number of Slavic peoples from the 9th until the 12th century. Although \"Old Bulgarian\" is still used in a number of sources with the meaning \"Old Church Slavonic\", there is a growing tendency for the name to be applied only to the language of manuscripts from the First Bulgarian Empire (Bulgarian editions of Old Church Slavonic), excluding manuscripts from other editions.\n\nOld Bulgarian is characterized by a number of phonetic, morphological, syntactic, and lexical traits (some of which are shared with other Slavic languages and some, such as the reflexes of *tj ([t']) and *dj ([d']), are typical only for Bulgarian):\n\n\n\nIn the period between 12th and 15th centuries the structure of the language changed quite radically. Few of these changes can still be observed in contemporary written records, thanks to the tendency towards archaicism driven by a desire to preserve the purity of the Cyrilo-Methodian tradition. \n\n\nThe language underwent some morphological changes as well: starting from the time of the Second Bulgarian Empire a confusion of case endings is to be observed along with the increasing use of prepositions in syntax. This linguistic tendency resulted in the gradual loss of the complex Slavic case system, rendering Bulgarian and Macedonian significantly more analytic than their relatives. Scholars dispute whether this has anything to do with phonetic changes, such as the confusion of the nasals, or whether it is purely due to the influence of grammar developments across the Balkans.\nAlso dating from the High Middle Ages is the use of the prefixes по- and най- to indicate comparative and superlative degrees of the adjective.\n\nThe earliest signs of post-positive definite article dates from the early 13th century with the Dobreyshevo Gospel (Добрейшево Евангелие) where the construction \"злыотъ рабъ\" (\"the evil person\") was used. Old Bulgarian relative pronouns иже, яже and еже (\"which,\" masculine, feminine, neuter) were at that time replaced by interrogative pronouns with the suffix -то: който, която, което.\n\nA new class of verbs developed with stems in -a-, conjugating like the old athematic verbs, e.g. имам, имаш, etc., (to have). Another characteristic of this period is the emergence of a shortened form of the future tense marker - \"ще\" in modern literary language and \"че,\" \"ке,\" and \"ше\" in dialect forms. The marker originates from the 3rd person singular present tense form of the verb \"hotjeti\" - to want). The Renarrative verb form possibly appeared around the end of the Second Bulgarian Empire, though it could also be attributed to subsequent Turkish influence.\n\nModern Bulgarian dates from developments beginning after the 16th century; particularly grammar and syntax changes in the 18th and 19th centuries. Present-day written Bulgarian language was standardized on the basis of the 19th-century Bulgarian vernacular from Central Eastern Bulgaria.\n\nBulgarian, along with the closely related Macedonian language (collectively forming the Eastern group of South Slavic), has several characteristics that set it apart from all other Slavic languages: changes include the elimination of case declension, the development of a suffixed definite article (see Balkan language area), and the lack of a verb infinitive, but it retains and has further developed the Proto-Slavic verb system. Various evidential verb forms exist to express unwitnessed, retold, and doubtful action.\n\n"}
{"id": "33564302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33564302", "title": "Homa Nategh", "text": "Homa Nategh\n\nHoma Nategh (1935 – 1 January 2016) was an Iranian historian, Professor of History at Tehran University. A specialist in the contemporary history of Iran, she resided in Paris, France until her death. She was active during Iran's 1979 revolution. After the revolution she was purged from the University of Tehran and moved to Paris, where she was appointed as professor of the Iranian Studies at the Sorbonne. In Sorbonne she published several articles on Iranian history in Qajar period.\n"}
{"id": "57831047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57831047", "title": "Howard F. Bremer", "text": "Howard F. Bremer\n\nHoward F. Bremer (1908 - 26 August 1980) was an American author, historian, and professor of history. He has 13 works in 40 publications. He worked as a professor of history at Briarcliff College and is known for his work as an editor and author.\n\n"}
{"id": "15815292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15815292", "title": "International Journal of South American Archaeology", "text": "International Journal of South American Archaeology\n\nThe International Journal of South American Archaeology – IJSA () is an eJournal listed by scholarly journal and one of the first fully peer-reviewed electronic journal for archaeology published by Syllaba Press. Its issues include original articles on the archaeology and prehispanic history of South America, including topics such as environmental archaeology, sociocultural archaeology, bioarchaeology, prehispanic art, sociocultural diversity, contemporary peoples and their archaeological remains. Papers may also address general theoretical and methodological issues relevant to archaeology, especially in South America.\n\nThis eJournal published two numbers for year (February and September) articles, reports, and reviews may be in Spanish, Portuguese or English and is edited by the Archaeodiversity Research Group, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia, and is sponsored by Syllaba Press, the Archaeological Museum “Julio César Cubillos”, and Taraxacum Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "326192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326192", "title": "Isaac Pitman", "text": "Isaac Pitman\n\nSir Isaac Pitman (4 January 1813 – 22 January 1897), was a teacher of the :English language who developed the most widely used system of shorthand, known now as Pitman shorthand. He first proposed this in \"Stenographic Soundhand\" in 1837. He was also the vice-president of the Vegetarian Society. Pitman was knighted by Queen Victoria in 1894.\n\nPitman was born in Trowbridge, Wiltshire in England. One of his cousins was Abraham Laverton. In 1831 he had five months' training at the Training College of the British and Foreign School Society, which was sufficient to qualify him as a teacher. He started teaching at Barton-upon-Humber, Lincolnshire. In 1835 he married a widow, and moved in 1836 to Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire, where he started his own school. In 1839 he moved to Bath, where he opened a small school.\n\nIn the 1851 census he appears in Bath aged 38, living with his wife, Mary, aged 58, born in Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire. He married Isabella Masters in 1861, and he appears in the 1871 census, aged 58, with his new wife Isabella, aged 46.\n\nIsaac Pitman was a lifelong advocate of spelling reform for the English language, producing many pamphlets during his lifetime on spelling reform. His motto was \"time saved is life gained\".\n\nOne of the outcomes of his interest in spelling reform was the creation of his system of phonetic shorthand which he first published in 1837, in a pamphlet titled \"Sound-Hand\". Among the examples in this pamphlet, were Psalm 100, the Lord's Prayer, and Swedenborg's \"Rules of Life\".\n\nBy 1843 his business of preparing and publishing had expanded sufficiently to give up teaching, and to set up his own printing press, as well as compositing and a binding.\n\nIn 1844 he published \"Phonotypy\", his major work on spelling reform. In 1845 he published the first version of the \"English Phonotypic Alphabet\".\n\nIn the 1881 census his name is spelled phonetically as Eisak Pitman. In the 1891 census he is again listed as Isaac, but his birthplace has moved to Bath.\n\nIn 1886 Pitman went into partnerships with his sons Alfred and Ernest to form Isaac Pitman and Sons. In the same year the millionth copy of the Phonographic Teacher was sold in Great Britain. Sir Isaac Pitman and Sons was to become one of the world's leading educational publishers and training businesses with offices in London, Bath, New York City, Melbourne, Johannesburg, Toronto and Tokyo. The publishing division was bought by rival Pearson Plc in 1985. The training business evolved into two separate businesses: Pitman Training and JHP Training (now learndirect).\n\nThe first distance education course in the modern sense was provided by Sir Isaac Pitman in the 1840s, who taught a system of shorthand by mailing texts transcribed into shorthand on postcards and receiving transcriptions from his students in return for correction. The element of student feedback was a crucial innovation of Pitman's system. This scheme was made possible by the introduction of uniform postage rates across Britain in 1840.\n\nIsaac Pitman was fervently Swedenborgian. Not only did he read \"The Writings\" of Emanuel Swedenborg daily, he also devoted much time and energy to educating the world about them. He published and distributed books and tracts by and about Swedenborg. Among the authors he encouraged was Thomas Child.\n\nPitman was active in the local New Church congregation in Bath while living on Royal Crescent. He was one of the founding members, when this congregation was formed in 1841. He served as president of this society from 1887 to his death in 1897. His contribution to this church was honoured by the congregation with a stained glass window depicting the golden cherub in the temple of wisdom described in Swedenborg's \"True Christian Religion\" No. 508. The window was dedicated on 5 September 1909.\n\nHis memorial plaque on the north wall of Bath Abbey reads, \"His aims were steadfast, his mind original, his work prodigious, the achievement world-wide. His life was ordered in service to God and duty to man.\"\n\nIn about 1837 Pitman discontinued the use of all alcoholic beverages, and in about 1838 he became a vegetarian – both lifelong practices to which, in a famous letter to \"The Times\" (London), he attributed his lifelong excellent health and his ability to work long hours.\n\nIsaac Pitman is the grandfather of Sir James Pitman, who developed the Initial Teaching Alphabet.\n\nHis great-grandson John Hugh Pitman was appointed an OBE in 2010 for services to Vocational Training.\n\n"}
{"id": "55578453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55578453", "title": "Ivan Đurić", "text": "Ivan Đurić\n\nIvan Đurić (; 30 October 1947 – 23 November 1997) was a Serbian writer, professor, historian and politician.\n\nĐurić was born on 30 October 1947 to parents Dušan S. Đurić (1920–1997) and Ivana (née Bogdanović; born 1925). Both of them were university professors. His father was nicknamed Zinaja after the footballer and cross-country skier.\n\nĐurić ran for President of Serbia in the 1990 Serbian general election as a joint candidate of the Association for Yugoslav Democratic Initiative and the Union of Reform Forces. He finished in third place (behind Slobodan Milošević and Vuk Drašković) with 277,398 votes.\n\nHe moved to Paris, France in November 1991 where he passed away on 23 November 1997.\n\nHis paternal great-grandfather is Serbian Orthodox priest who was one of the founders of the People's Radical Party.\n\nHis maternal grandfather is author . His maternal uncle is architect and former Mayor of Belgrade Bogdan Bogdanović.\n\n"}
{"id": "49516318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49516318", "title": "John Ulrich Graf", "text": "John Ulrich Graf\n\nJohn Ulrich Graf (1811 in Grub – 24 September 24, 1887) was a German missionary for the Church Missionary Society who was active in Sierra Leone from 1837-1855. He was involved in the relocation of Yoruba recaptives to their homeland where the CMS was to set up missions at Abeokuta and Ibadan.\n\nGraf first trained at the Basel Mission before coming England. He was ordained as a deacon by James Henry Monk, the Bishop of Gloucester on 5 June 1836. In 1837 he went Islington to finish his training at the Church Missionary College. \n"}
{"id": "6205893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6205893", "title": "John V. Luce", "text": "John V. Luce\n\nJohn Victor Luce (21 May 1920 – 11 February 2011) was an Irish classicist, former professor and emeritus Fellow of Classics at Trinity College, Dublin. He was also the College's Public Orator between 1971 and 2005.\n\nLuce entered Trinity in 1938 to read Classics, and was elected a Scholar in his first year, a highly unusual achievement. He took a double Moderatorship in Classics and Philosophy and was awarded Gold Medals for both subjects. He was Auditor of the College Classical Society in 1942–43. He was elected a Fellow of Trinity in 1948 and served as Erasmus Smith's Professor of Oratory until 1989.\n\nJohn Luce was the son of Arthur Aston Luce, the long serving fellow of TCD, nephew of Gordon Hannington Luce, the noted scholar of Burmese and Asian History and Bloomsbury group member, first cousin of Rex Warner, classicist and author of novels such as the Airodrome.\n\nAn avid sportsman in his youth represented Ireland in Hockey in the 1940s, and also played Squash and Cricket. He was a keen Chess player and played for Rathmines Chess Club in the Leinster Leagues. \n\n"}
{"id": "19560334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19560334", "title": "José Amador de los Ríos", "text": "José Amador de los Ríos\n\nJosé Amador de los Ríos y Serrano (30 April 1818 – 17 February 1878) was a Spanish intellectual, primarily a historian and archaeologist of art and literature. He was a graduate in history of the Complutense University of Madrid.\n\nIn 1844 he was the secretary of the Comisión Central de Monumentos. He was co-director with Antonio de Zabaleta of the ephemeral \"Boletín Español de Arquitectura\", the first Spanish journal dedicated exclusively to architecture. It was only in publication from 1 June to December 1846. In 1852 he published the complete works of Íñigo López de Mendoza. It was Amador de los Ríos who first used the term \"mudejarismo\" to describe a style of architecture in 1859.\n\nIn 1861 he published the first volume of \"Historia crítica de la literatura española\", the first general history of Spanish literature written in Spain. It was to remain incomplete. Ideologically Amador de los Ríos, a liberal and romantic, conceives of Spain as a unit, at once Roman Catholic and Castilian, a constitutional monarchy (thought it was not one yet) united with its past by an \"idea luminosa\" (luminous idea). Countering the foreign historians who regard medieval Spain as a backwater, he defends Spanish literature as the foremost among those which appeared after the Fall of Rome. Though he only covered the Middle Ages, he demonstrated that he regarded Spanish American literature as part of the Spanish tradition. In another work, \"Historia social, política y religiosa de los judíos de España\", he accepts the Spanish Jewish literature as part of the tradition, since it \"bloomed\" in Spanish soil. Unlike Adolf de Castro, however, he did not condemn the Spanish Inquisition.\n"}
{"id": "28083656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28083656", "title": "Korea University Museum", "text": "Korea University Museum\n\nKorea University Museum (고려대학교박물관), commonly called The University Museum, is a history, archaeology, and art museum that is part of the Korea University in Seoul, South Korea\n\nThe Museum is housed in the Centennial Memorial Samsung Hall that is one of the landmarks of the Korea University campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "56975567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56975567", "title": "Kristina Killgrove", "text": "Kristina Killgrove\n\nKristina Killgrove (born March 10, 1977) is an American bioarchaeologist, science communicator, and author who primarily covers anthropology and archaeology news and engages in research on ancient Roman skeletons. She is a regular contributor to \"Mental Floss\" and previously to \"Science Uncovered\". Since March 2015, she has written a regular science column for \"Forbes\". Since 2012, she has been faculty in anthropology at the University of West Florida and she has maintained an affiliation as a research scholar at the Ronin Institute since 2011.\n\nKillgrove grew up in Charlottesville, Virginia, where her father was employed as an engineer for the National Ground Intelligence Center and her mother was a nurse. She has one brother. She is a graduate of Albemarle High School and the University of Virginia, earning a B.A. with a double-major in classical archaeology and Latin. Killgrove attended East Carolina University and earned an M.A. in anthropology, then attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she earned an M.A. in classical archaeology and a PhD in anthropology. She has taught college courses at the University of West Florida, Vanderbilt University, UNC Chapel Hill, SUNY Cortland, and Durham Technical Community College. Killgrove is married with two children.\n\nKillgrove's first research project for her dissertation focused on skeletons from two cemeteries in Imperial-era Rome. This work included palaeodietary reconstruction as well as the first strontium isotope study of human migration in the Italian peninsula. From 2010-2017, Killgrove worked on the human skeletal material recovered from the site of Gabii, under the aegis of a project headed by Nicola Terrenato. Since 2017, she has led a team working at the Vesuvian site of Oplontis.\n\nKillgrove has written a blog, Powered by Osteons, since 2007. In 2013, she contributed to the 'Ask A Scientist' column of the short-lived British pop-sci magazine \"Science Uncovered\". Since 2015, she has been a contributor at \"Forbes\", covering archaeology and anthropology news in her own column. In 2016, she began contributing occasional essays for \"Mental Floss\". Killgrove has won two awards for her science communication. She has also provided expert commentary for numerous media outlets, including CNN, the BBC, LiveScience, Gizmodo, Ars Technica, Newsweek, NPR, and Quirks & Quarks.\n\n\n\nColumn in Forbes -- \n\nArticles in Mental Floss -- \n\nKillgrove's website -- \n"}
{"id": "50108469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50108469", "title": "List of fireworks accidents and incidents", "text": "List of fireworks accidents and incidents\n\nThis is a list of fireworks accidents and incidents:\n\n"}
{"id": "1826711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826711", "title": "Lithuanian Wars of Independence", "text": "Lithuanian Wars of Independence\n\nThe Lithuanian Wars of Independence, also known as the Freedom Struggles (), refer to three wars Lithuania fought defending its independence at the end of World War I: with Bolshevik forces (December 1918 – August 1919), Bermontians (June 1919 – December 1919), and Poland (August 1920 – November 1920). The wars delayed international recognition of independent Lithuania and the formation of civil institutions.\n\nAfter the Partitions of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1795, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania was annexed by the Russian Empire. The Lithuanian National Revival emerged during the 19th century and the movement to establish an independent nation-state intensified during the early 20th century. During World War I, Lithuanian territory was occupied by Germany from 1915 until the war ended in November 1918.\n\nOn February 16, 1918, the Council of Lithuania declared the re-establishment of independence from all previous legal bonds with other states. The declaration asserted the right to self-determination, meaning the creation of a state within ethnic Lithuanian territories. The publication of the Act of Independence was initially suppressed by the German occupation forces, but on March 23, 1918, the Germans acknowledged the declaration; their plans had shifted to the establishment of a network of satellite countries (Mitteleuropa). However, Germany did not allow the Council to establish a Lithuanian military force, police force, or civic institutions. On November 11, 1918 Germany signed an armistice on the Western Front and officially lost the war and control over Lithuania. The first national government, led by Augustinas Voldemaras, was formed. Voldemaras issued a declaration that Lithuania did not need a military force, as it was not planning to engage in warfare, and that only a small militia was needed. This view was unrealistic, since military conflicts soon erupted.\n\nThe first legislative act creating an army was passed on November 23, 1918. Its development and organization moved slowly due to lack of funding, arms, ammunition, and experienced military commanders. On December 20 Antanas Smetona and Voldemaras went to Germany to request assistance. This arrived at the end of 1918, when Germany paid the Lithuanian government one hundred million marks in reparations; the organization of the new Lithuanian army proceeded under the auspices of the German army, which was withdrawing in stages. However, the departure of both leaders created a difficult domestic situation. The Council of Lithuania released Voldemaras' cabinet; Mykolas Sleževičius became Prime Minister of Lithuania and formed a Cabinet on 26 December 1918. Perceiving an imminent threat to the state, he issued a proclamation several days later. Directed at Lithuanian men, the proclamation invited volunteers to join a force to defend the country.\n\nLithuanian volunteers who agreed to join the military force were promised free land. Fulfilling its Armistice obligation to support Lithuanian independence, Germany initially tried to organize a volunteer force from units remaining in Lithuanian territory, but those attempts failed. Crimps were sent to Germany to recruit volunteers. A division of volunteers was soon formed, who were paid 5 marks per day plus 30 marks per month. The first units began arriving in Lithuania during January 1919, although some of them were sent away because they were in a poor condition. By the end of January, 400 volunteers were stationed in Alytus, Jonava, Kėdainiai, and Kaunas. They formed the basis for the 46th Saxonian division, renamed in March to the Southern Lithuanian Saxonian Volunteer Brigade. The brigade consisted of the 18th, 19th, and 20th regiments. The last of these German troops, also known as Freikorps, would leave Lithuania during July 1919.\n\nAfter successful attempts at mustering a voluntary force to defend Lithuanian territories, mobilization was begun on March 5, 1919 to expand the Lithuanian armed forces. It applied to men born between 1897 and 1899. At the end of summer 1919, the Lithuanian army numbered about 8,000 men. During the battles that followed, 1,700 Lithuanian volunteers died, more than 2,600 were injured, and 800 were missing in action. Historian Alfonsas Eidintas cites the total deaths as 1,444.\n\nAs revolution broke out in Germany, the German government withdrew support for the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, which had ceded Lithuania independence from Soviet Russia on November 5, 1918. Meanwhile, the Soviet Russian government renounced the treaty on November 13. The Bolsheviks attempted to conquer Lithuania from the east as part of their global proletarian revolution. Elsewhere, the treaty of 1918 had also ceded independence to Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia in the Near East, and Belarus and Ukraine in Eastern Europe. The Soviet Union attacked these nations as well. But whereas they did fall, Lithuania and Poland would not.\n\nOn December 8, 1918, a temporary revolutionary government in the capital city of Vilnius was formed, consisting solely of members of the Communist Party of Lithuania. Vincas Mickevičius-Kapsukas became its chairman. The following day a workers' soviet was formed and declared that it had taken control of Vilnius. However, Voldemaras' government and a Polish committee also declared their control of the city at the same time. The Germans finally abandoned Vilnius on December 31, 1918. On January 5, 1919 the Red Army took it and advanced further in the west. Local Polish paramilitary platoons led by general Władysław Wejtko fought the Red Army in Vilnius for five days; the Lithuanian government had left Vilnius along with the regular German Army. On January 1, 1919 local communists in the town of Šiauliai, about 200 kilometers west of Vilnius, rebelled and created a 1,000-man \"Samogitian Regiment\"; when the Red Army entered the town on January 15 Soviet power already existed there. On January 18 the Soviets and Germans signed a treaty and designated a demarcation line that barred Bolshevik forces from directly attacking Kaunas, Lithuania's second-largest city. The Red Army would need to attack through Alytus or Kėdainiai.\n\nGerman volunteers led by Rüdiger von der Goltz arrived in Lithuania, took up positions along the Hrodna–Kaišiadorys–Kaunas line, and helped the Lithuanian forces, commanded by Jonas Variakojis, to stop the Red Army advance near Kėdainiai. On February 8, during a reconnaissance mission, the first Lithuanian soldier to die in the wars, Povilas Lukšys, was killed near Taučiūnai. On February 10 the joint forces captured Šėta and forced the Red Army to retreat. The success of this operation lifted the Lithuanian army's morale. During the first half of February 18, the regiment of Saxon volunteers stationed between Kaišiadorys and Žiežmariai engaged in skirmishes on their line, and the joint force captured Jieznas in an operation held between February 10 and February 13. After this setback the Bolshevik 7th Riflemen Regiment began to disintegrate, and many soldiers deserted. The regiment could have been completely destroyed, if the Germans had not refused to pursue the retreating units.\n\nOn February 12 Bolshevik forces attacked Alytus. Lithuanian 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th companies of the 1st Infantry Regiment had to withstand pressure from the Red Army, while members of the German units left their posts. During this battle the first Lithuanian officer to die in the wars was killed: Antanas Juozapavičius, the commander of the 1st Infantry Regiment. After the loss of their commander the regiment began retreating towards Marijampolė. On the night of February 14–15, German forces retook Alytus.\n\nTowards the end of 1918 the officer Povilas Plechavičius, together with his brother Aleksandras, began organizing partisans in Skuodas. On February 9 the partisans took an oath, and on February 16 they paraded in the town square. A partisan unit commanded by army officers was also organized in Joniškėlis.\nThe movement of the Bolsheviks towards East Prussia worried Germany, and they sent volunteers (Brigade Shaulen) commanded by General Rüdiger von der Goltz to free the railroad line linking Liepāja, Mažeikiai, Radviliškis, and Kėdainiai. At the end of February the Lithuanian partisans, supported by German artillery, took Mažeikiai and Seda, and pursued Bolsheviks to Kuršėnai. On February 27, 1919, German volunteers supported by Plechavičius' partisans and Joniškėlis' partisans, defeated the \"Samogitian regiment\" in a battle near Luokė. By that time the regiment had been incorporated into the Red Army's 2nd Latvian International Riflemen Division. On the same day the Lithuanian–Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic (Litbel) was declared. On March 7, 1919 the Germans took the town of Kuršėnai, on March 11 - Šiauliai, on March 12 - Radviliškis. On March 14 Lithuanian partisans and German forces captured Šeduva. The German troops were active in Lithuania until May 31, 1919.\n\nIn Kėdainiai a stationed volunteer regiment had secured its positions; in March it started small \"expeditions\" into nearby towns. Local volunteers with good knowledge of the location succeeded in driving Bolshevik supporters out of Ramygala, Truskava, and Krekenava, but these areas were soon recaptured by the Bolsheviks. These expeditions into several towns were successfully carried out until the end of March. As a reward for its successful operations, the volunteer regiment was given a name on March 22: the \"Separate Panevėžys Volunteer Regiment\". Due to a succession of losses, the Bolshevik forces stationed in Panevėžys and Kupiškis rebelled, and were quelled only by a Red Army Division from neighboring Latvia. The Bolshevik morale underwent deeper declines, and between March 19 and March 24 their forces left Panevėžys. Lithuanian forces entered the city on March 26, but the Red Army retook it on April 4.\n\nIn April the Lithuanian army began moving towards Vilnius, taking Žąsliai and Vievis, but their advances stopped on April 8. In the meantime, on April 19, the Polish army had taken Vilnius from the Bolsheviks and forced them to withdraw their left wing from territories south of the Neris River. The shortened front line that resulted allowed Lithuania to send stronger forces to northeastern Lithuania, and carry out operations there. By May 3, the Separate Panevėžys Volunteer Regiment, supported by the 18th regiment of Saxonian volunteers, had secured Siesikai, Atkočiai, and Deltuva. They had also captured Ukmergė; Lithuanian units were the first to enter the city.\n\nIn the beginning of March the mobilization began and Lithuanian forces increased their numbers. At the end of April the Lithuanian army's chain of command was reformed. General Silvestras Žukauskas was designated Chief of Staff, and on May 7 he assumed command of the entire Lithuanian army. A complete reorganization took place over the next new weeks, and the strengthened Lithuanian forces were now ready to push the Red Army back. Žukauskas decided to concentrate his Lithuanian forces in two areas. The first brigade, centered in the Ukmergė–Utena–Zarasai region, was called the \"Vilkmergė Group\"; the second brigade, centered in the Kėdainiai-Panevėžys-Rokiškis region, was called the \"Panevėžys Group\". Operations planning was undertaken during the middle of May.\n\nOn May 17 the reorganized army carried out its first operation, capturing the town of Kurkliai. Preparations were made for an advance on Anykščiai, which was taken on May 19, along with Skiemonys and Alanta. On May 22 the Lithuanian forces launched an advance on Utena, reaching the village of Diktarai. The initiative was met by a counterattack, and the Lithuanian forces retreated. The attack was stopped for several days, and line Alanta-Skiemonys-Anykščiai was taken. A drive towards Utena started on May 31, and the city was secured on June 2.\n\nThe Panevėžys Group launched a drive towards Panevėžys on May 18. On May 19 the brigade secured Panevėžys and Raguva; on May 20 its field staff moved to Panevėžys. The city withstood a Bolshevik attack that took place on May 21 and 22. On May 24 Žukauskas ordered both groups to push farther. The Panevėžys Group advanced towards Kupiškis and secured Subačius on May 25. On May 30 they took Rokiškis; Bolshevik forces left Kupiškis on the night of May 30–31, and Lithuania secured that city on June 1. The advance continued, and on the 10th of June Lithuanian forces reached the territory controlled by Latvian partisans (Green Guard) and supplied them with munitions.\n\nThe Lithuanian successes continued, and by the end of August, the Bolsheviks were defeated near Zarasai. On October 2 Lithuania took Griva, a suburb of Daugavpils. The Lithuanian forces stopped at the Daugava River near the border with Latvia, and the front line stabilized. The short-lived Litbel government was discontinued.\n\nOn July 12, 1920, Lithuania signed a peace treaty with the Russian SFSR. Russia recognized Lithuania's independence and its right to the Vilnius Region. This treaty was not recognized by Poland or by the short-lived Belarusian National Republic. Several historians have asserted that despite its treaty with Russia, Lithuania was very close to being taken over by local communist forces that were backed by the Bolsheviks. In this view, it was only the Polish victory against the Soviets in the Polish–Soviet War that disrupted these plans.\n\nThe Bermontians, named for their leader Pavel Bermondt-Avalov and formally known as the West Russian Volunteer Army, were a mixed German-Russian army. The army included Russian prisoners of war, released by the German Empire after promising to fight against the Bolsheviks in the Russian Civil War, and members of the Freikorps, stationed in Latvia and Lithuania after Germany lost the war. The official goal of this army was to fight Bolsheviks along with Aleksandr Kolchak's forces, but its actual agenda was the retention of German power in the territories they had taken during World War I.\n\nAt first the Bermontians operated mostly in Latvia, but in June 1919, they crossed the Lithuanian–Latvian border and took the town of Kuršėnai. At that time the Lithuanians were engaged in battles with the Bolsheviks and could only issue diplomatic protests. By October, the Bermontians had taken considerable territories in western Lithuania (Samogitia), including the cities of Šiauliai, Biržai, and Radviliškis. After they had annexed a town, the Bermontians enforced a rule that only the Russian language could be used to conduct administration. They became notorious for robbing and looting the local populace, who began organizing local partisan groups.\n\nDuring October 1919, Lithuanian forces attacked the Bermontians, achieving an important victory on November 21 and 22 near Radviliškis, a major railway center. The Lithuanians collected significant spoils of war there, including 30 airplanes and 10 cannons. Later clashes were stopped by the intervention of an Entente representative, the French General Henri Niessel, who oversaw the withhdrawal of German troops. The Lithuanian military followed the retreating Bermontian soldiers to prevent them from further looting and to ensure their complete evacuation. By December 15, the Bermontians were completely removed from Lithuania.\n\nIn June 1920 the Russian army had taken Vilnius. Shortly after their defeat in the Battle of Warsaw, the withdrawing Red Army handed the city over to Lithuania under the terms of the peace treaty signed on July 12. Negotiations were started in an attempt to avoid an armed conflict between Poland and Lithuania. On October 7, the Suwałki Agreement was signed. However, on October 8, before the agreement was to formally take effect, General Lucjan Żeligowski, acting on orders from the Polish leader Józef Piłsudski, staged a mutiny by Polish troops. The Vilnius and the Suvalkai regions were overrun. Initially the Polish forces did not meet much armed resistance, and a later Lithuanian counter-offensive was stopped by Military Commission of League of Nations. Since the Vilnius region was controlled by Poland, the Lithuanian government declared Kaunas the temporary capital of Lithuania. The dispute over Vilnius would continue throughout the interwar period.\n\nA staged mutiny arranged by the Polish Chief of State Józef Piłsudski was carried out by Polish forces led by general Lucjan Żeligowski. These forces took control of Vilnius in the fall of 1920. However, shortly after this, Lithuanian forces started to gain the upper hand in this conflict and the 'mutinous' forces gained support from the regular Polish army. This military action is considered as a continuation of the Polish-Lithuanian war in historiography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48364134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48364134", "title": "Martha Levisman", "text": "Martha Levisman\n\nMartha Levisman de Clusellas (born 1933) is an Argentine architect, archivist, and historian. She is best known for the three buildings of the Antorchas Foundation in Buenos Aires and for the part she played the development of the National Library in Buenos Aires. In 1985 she completed the first Antorchas building. Writer Roberto Segren notes how in her work on the first Antorchas building transformed a \"decayed palace representative of the anonymous architecture of Italian builders of the late nineteenth century\" in the San Telmo neighborhood.\n\nFrom 1952 to 1958, she studied at the Faculty of Architecture and Urbanism at the University of Buenos Aires, together with Beatriz Goldestein, Nely Cueitel and Nora Monreal. It was during the period of transition when some of the staff were teaching the Beaux Arts style while others were beginning to turn to Modernism, especially César Janello and Tomás Maldonado who taught integral design. She was also able to benefit from the lectures given by Odilia Suárez and Enriqueta Méoli, both bent on following emerging trends.\n\nShe was on the point of leaving Buenos Aires to embark on further studies in Rosario where there was a new school of architecture but she stayed in the capital after meeting Gerardo Clusellas (1929–73) who became her business partner, her husband and the father of her three sons. From 1957, she began her career at the university, working under Janello and with Wladimiro Acosta. From 1963 to 1966, she headed first-year practical projects in Alfredo Ibarlucía's department. Later she worked with Mario Tempone. With the return of democracy in 1984, she returned to the Faculty of Architecture at Buenos Aires University as lecturer responsible for cultural events until 1889 when she was worked for the dean, undertaking research and arranging historical exhibitions.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2002, Levisman was Director of ARCA, Argentina's architectural archive centre (Asociación Civil para el Archivo de Arquitectura Contemporánea Argentina); she also served as ARCA's president. As an archivist she has worked for the Bustillo family. Levisman has conducted research as a historian into architecture, in one instance arguing that the \"Bariloche style\" was \"created by a group of affluent Argentine developers inspired by 'colonization, illusion and fantasy'\".\n\nAs an architect, she was a member of her husband's firm. The most important completed works included the Antorchas Head Office (1985), the TAREA Foundation building (renovated in 1987) and an addition to the Antorchas complex to house a photograph gallery, completed in 1991. In 1989, she was commissioned to complete work on the National Library, a sizeable project which entailed redrafting plans for the interiors which had been mislaid.\n\n"}
{"id": "6885755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6885755", "title": "Martin Bronfenbrenner", "text": "Martin Bronfenbrenner\n\nMartin Bronfenbrenner (December 2, 1914 in Pittsburgh – June 2, 1997 in Durham, North Carolina) was an internationally renowned economist who published over 250 scholarly papers and five books and served as William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor Emeritus of Economics at Duke University. His publications cover a host of topics, including aggregate economics, income distribution, international economics, and Japan. His scholarship was recognized on several occasions, including his election as Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and as a Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic Association.\n\nBronfenbrenner received his B.A. from Washington University in St. Louis in 1934, his doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1939, and went on to teach at Roosevelt University, the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1947–1957), Michigan State University (1957–1959), the University of Minnesota (1959–1962) and Carnegie Mellon University (1962–1971), where he also served as department chair. He later taught at Aoyama Gakuin University from 1984–1990 and Duke University from 1971–1984 and from 1991 until his death).\n\nHe married Teruko Okuaki Bronfenbrenner and has two children.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3169665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3169665", "title": "Matija Nenadović", "text": "Matija Nenadović\n\nMatija or Mateja Nenadović ( or ; 26 February 1777 – 11 December 1854), known as Prota Mateja, was a Serbian archpriest, writer, and a notable leader of the First Serbian Uprising.\n\nAt the age of sixteen he was ordained priest, and a few years later was promoted to an archpriest (), colloquially \"prota\" () of Valjevo. His father, Aleksa Nenadović, Knez (chief magistrate) of the district of Valjevo, was one of the most popular and respected public men among the Serbs at the beginning of the 19th century. When the four leaders of the Janissaries of the Sanjak of Smederevo (the so-called Dahias) thought that the only way to prevent a general rising of the Serbs was to intimidate them by murdering all their principal men, Aleksa Nenadović (1749–1804) was one of the first victims. The policy of the Dahias, instead of preventing, did actually and immediately provoke a general insurrection of the Serbs against the Turks.\n\nProta Mateja became the deputy-commander of the insurgents of the Valjevo district (1804), but did not hold the post for long, as Karađorđe sent him in 1805 on a secret mission to St. Petersburg, and afterwards employed him almost constantly as Serbia's diplomatic envoy to Russia, Austria, Bucharest and Constantinople. After the fall of Karadjordje (1813), the new leader of the Serbs, Miloš Obrenović, sent Prota Mateja as representative of Serbia to the Congress of Vienna (1814–1815), where he pleaded the Serbian cause indefatigably. During that mission he often saw Lord Castlereagh, and for the first time the Serbian national interests were brought to the knowledge of British statesmen. \nProta Mateja's memoirs (\"Memoari Prote Mateje Nenadovića\") are the most valuable authority for the history of the first and Second Serbian uprising against the Turks.\n\nHe had a brother, Sima, a \"voivode\". His paternal uncle, Jakov Nenadović, had an equally important role in Serbia, as the first Interior Minister. Mateja Nenadović had a son, Ljubomir Nenadović, born on 14 September 1826 at Brankovina, near Valjevo. From his earliest years he showed uncommon diligence and perseverance in classical studies, nothwithstanding many difficulties and privations. In 1844 he went to Prague, Berlin and Heidelberg where he studied at their universities. His reputation as a literary scholar, writer and poet secured him a post of professor at the Belgrade Lyceum. In 1851 Ljubomir Nenadović accompanied Petar II Petrović Njegoš on his last voyage in Italy. His \"Letters from Italy\" reveal many intimate sides of Njegoš's personality. Nenadović was only 25 years old at the time. When Njegoš, the great Serb poet, was dying Ljubomir Nenadović arrived in Cetinje to record whatever he could from the eyewitnesses and to save it for posterity. In later life Ljubomir Nenadović took an active part in politics; he became a secretary at a Serbian Legation in Constantinople; and in 1859 he was in charge of the Press Bureau of the Serbian Foreign Office.\n\nHe is best known for his work \"The Memoirs of Prota Nenadović\". He also authored other memoirs and documentary literature.\n\nHe is included in The 100 most prominent Serbs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275301", "title": "Matter of Britain", "text": "Matter of Britain\n\nThe Matter of Britain is the body of Medieval literature and legendary material associated with Great Britain, and sometimes Brittany, and the legendary kings and heroes associated with it, particularly King Arthur. It was one of the three great story cycles recalled repeatedly in medieval literature, together with the Matter of France, which concerned the legends of Charlemagne, and the Matter of Rome, which included material derived from or inspired by classical mythology.\n\nThe three \"Matters\" were first described in the 12th century by French poet Jean Bodel, whose epic \"\" (\"Song of the Saxons\") contains the line:\n\nThe name distinguishes and relates the Matter of Britain from the mythological themes taken from classical antiquity, the \"Matter of Rome\", and the tales of the paladins of Charlemagne and their wars with the Moors and Saracens, which constituted the \"Matter of France\". Arthur is the chief subject of the Matter of Britain, along with stories related to the legendary kings of the British, as well as lesser-known topics related to the history of Great Britain and Brittany, such as the stories of Brutus of Troy, Coel Hen, Leir of Britain (King Lear), and Gogmagog.\n\nIt could be said that the legendary history of Britain was created partly to form a body of patriotic myth for the country. Several agendas thus can be seen in this body of literature.\n\nThe \"Historia Brittonum\", the earliest known source of the story of Brutus of Troy, may have been devised to create a distinguished genealogy for a number of Welsh princes in the 9th century. Traditionally attributed to Nennius, its actual compiler is unknown; it exists in several recensions. This tale went on to achieve greater currency because its inventor linked Brutus to the diaspora of heroes that followed the Trojan War, and thus provided raw material which later mythographers such as Geoffrey of Monmouth, Michael Drayton, and John Milton could draw upon, linking the settlement of Britain to the heroic age of Greek literature, for their several and diverse literary purposes. As such, this material could be used for patriotic mythmaking just as Virgil linked the founding of Rome to the Trojan War in \"The Æneid\". Geoffrey of Monmouth also introduced the fanciful claim that the Trinovantes, reported by Tacitus as dwelling in the area of London, had a name he interpreted as \"Troi-novant\", \"New Troy\".\n\nMore speculative claims link Welsh mythology with several of the rulers and incidents compiled by Geoffrey of Monmouth in his \"Historia Regum Britanniæ\". It has been suggested, for instance, that Leir of Britain, who later became Shakespeare's \"King Lear\", was originally the Welsh sea-god Llŷr (see also the Irish sea-god Ler). Various Celtic deities have been identified with characters from Arthurian literature as well: Morgan le Fay was often thought to have originally been the Welsh goddess Modron (cf. the Morrígan). Many of these identifications come from the speculative comparative religion of the late 19th century, and have been questioned in more recent years.\n\nWilliam Shakespeare was interested in the legendary history of Britain, and was familiar with some of its more obscure byways. Shakespeare's plays contain several tales relating to these legendary kings, such as \"King Lear\" and \"Cymbeline\". It has been suggested that Shakespeare's Welsh schoolmaster Thomas Jenkins introduced him to this material, and perhaps directed him to read Geoffrey of Monmouth. These tales also figure in Raphael Holinshed's \"The Chronicles of England, Scotland, and Ireland\", which also appears in Shakespeare's sources for \"Macbeth\".\n\nOther early authors also drew from the early Arthurian and pseudo-historical sources of the Matter of Britain. The Scots, for instance, formulated a mythical history in the Picts and the Dál Riata royal lines. While they do eventually become factual lines, unlike those of Geoffrey, their origins are vague and often incorporate both aspects of mythical British history and mythical Irish history. The story of Gabrán mac Domangairt especially incorporates elements of both those histories.\n\nThe Arthurian literary cycle is the best known part of the Matter of Britain. It has succeeded largely because it tells two interlocking stories that have intrigued many later authors. One concerns Camelot, usually envisioned as a doomed utopia of chivalric virtue, undone by the fatal flaws of Arthur and Sir Lancelot. The other concerns the quests of the various knights to achieve the Holy Grail; some succeed (Galahad, Percival), and others fail (Lancelot).\n\nThe medieval tale of Arthur and his knights is full of Christian themes; those themes involve the destruction of human plans for virtue by the moral failures of their characters, and the quest for an important Christian relic. Finally, the relationships between the characters invited treatment in the tradition of courtly love, such as Lancelot and Guinevere, or Tristan and Iseult. In more recent years, the trend has been to attempt to link the tales of King Arthur and his knights with Celtic mythology, usually in highly romanticized, early 20th century reconstructed versions.\n\nThe work of Jessie Weston, in particular \"From Ritual to Romance\", traced Arthurian imagery through Christianity to roots in early nature worship and vegetation rites, though this interpretation is no longer fashionable.\n\nAdditionally, it is possible to read the Arthurian literature in general, and that concerned with the Grail tradition in particular, as an allegory of human development and spiritual growth (a theme explored by mythologist Joseph Campbell amongst others).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26267032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26267032", "title": "Mongolian calendar", "text": "Mongolian calendar\n\nThe traditional Mongol calendar (, \"Tsaglabar\" or , \"Tsag toony bichig\") is a lunisolar calendar based on system developed in 1747 by monk Ishbaljir (, \"Sümbe khambo Ishbaljir\"; 1704–1788). The Mongol year is composed of either 12 or 13 lunar months, each beginning and ending with a new moon. A thirteenth month is added every two or three years, so that an average year is equal to the solar year.\n\nThe Mongol new year celebration is Tsagaan Sar which is celebrated two months after the first new moon following the winter solstice.\n\nIn modern Mongolia, the Gregorian calendar is used, with the traditional calendar only used for traditional celebrations and events based on it.\n\nThe European system of chronology is called \"Аргын тоолол\" (, chronology of method) and the Mongol system of chronology is called \"Билгийн тоолол\" (, chronology of wisdom).\n\nThe twelve months of the year are referred to by their number, such as first month, second month, and so on.\nIn colloquial usage, the first 5 days of the week are referred to as first day, second day, etc. Saturday is referred to as \"Hagas sain ödör\" (translation: half-good day), and Sunday is referred to as \"Büten sain ödör\" (translation: full good day), a result of 5 full working days and Saturday as a half working day during the communist era.\n\nThe names of Tibetan origin are used in more formal settings, and almost exclusively in written documents, while the Sanskrit names are practically absent in modern usage.\n\n"}
{"id": "10929786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10929786", "title": "Museo de la Palabra y la Imagen", "text": "Museo de la Palabra y la Imagen\n\nThe Museo de la Palabra y la Imagen (Spanish for Museum of the Word and the Image) is an innovative museum located in San Salvador, El Salvador. It was founded in the late 1990s by the Venezuelan journalist Carlos Henríquez Consalvi as a museum dedicated to collecting and preserving memories of the Salvadoran civil war, incorporating memories across the political spectrum. The general enthusiasm of the public quickly prompted the MUPI to expand and it now includes a variety of exhibits that deal with various moments in the nation's past.\n\nOne of its projects has been the production of the documentary \"Cicatriz de la Memoria\" (\"Scars of Memory\") with U.S. historian Jeffrey Gould regarding the 1932 Salvadoran peasant uprising. Integral to the project was the idea of the \"cine-forum,\" in which the MUPI took the documentary \"on tour\" throughout the country and abroad, organizing screenings in community centers, schools, and universities, followed by lively discussion sessions. More recently, the MUPI has worked in an exhibit regarding the memory of the massacre of El Mozote, and has also worked in collaboration with the art museum MARTE in a joint exhibit about the acclaimed Salvadoran writer and artist, Salarrué.\n\nThe MUPI has an impressive archive that includes historical photographs, manuscripts, and video recordings:\n\nThe museum owns a building in the capital and organizes exhibitions about identity, culture and historic memory. It has various exhibition halls as well as a cinema hall and produces books, audiovisual works and lots of educating and cultural activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "13806036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13806036", "title": "Ove Karlsson (sports journalist)", "text": "Ove Karlsson (sports journalist)\n\nOve Karlsson (approximately \"oo-vay kahwl-son\", born 1944) is a sports journalist and Olympic historian from Sweden. He has been working as a journalist for more than 40 years. Since the 1970s, he has also been involved in the Swedish Olympic Committee's team guides and official reports. Since 1991, he is a founding member of the ISOH (International Society of Olympic Historians). Since 1994, he is also a founding president of the Olympic Section of the SIHSS (Swedish Ice hockey Historical and Statistical Society).\n\nIn 1944, Ove Karlsson was born in Motala, Sweden.\n\nIn 1964 (age 20), he started his career in sports journalism in Stockholm, where he has resided since.\n\nFrom 1967 to 1993 (age 23 to 49), he was involved in media service organisation at major international sports events in Sweden. Since the 1970s, he has been involved in the Swedish Olympic Committee's team guides and official reports (the \"Olympiaboken\", \"Olympic Books\"). From 1973 to 1981 (age 29 to 37), he was a member of the Executive Committee of the AIPS (Association Internationale de la Presse Sportive, the International Organization of the Sports Press). In 1980 (age 36), he was press attaché of Sweden's Olympic teams.\n\nIn 1986 (age 42), he was a founding member of SOF (Sveriges Olympiahistorikers Förening, the Swedish Society of Olympic Historians), and its secretary from 1986 to 1988 (age 42 to 44).\n\nIn 1991 (age 47), he was a founding member of the ISOH (International Society of Olympic Historians). He wrote articles for the ISOH's \"Journal of Olympic History\" (formerly \"Citius, Altius, Fortius\"), especially the obituaries of Olympians. In 2004 (age 60), he became officer of the ISOH, on the 2004–2008 Executive Committee.\n\nIn 1994 (age 50), he was a founding president of the SIHSS (Swedish Ice hockey Historical and Statistical Society). , he his still president of the Olympic Section of the SIHSS.\n\nOve Karlsson has been working as a sports journalist in Stockholm for more than 40 years:\n\n\nPublications include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6724408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6724408", "title": "Patricia Herlihy", "text": "Patricia Herlihy\n\nPatricia Herlihy (June 1, 1930 - October 24, 2018) was an American historian and author specializing in Russian and Soviet history.\n\nWhen Herlihy was six months old her recently divorced mother moved to China, where they lived for five years. During this time, she learned Chinese, German and some English.\n\nIn adolescence, she met her future husband, David Herlihy, and together they lived and studied in Pisa and Florence, and also lived in France for a year.\n\nAfter returning to the United States, Herlihy taught Russian history at the Harvard Extension School. In 1985 Herlihy visited Odessa, Ukraine for three months, which would later be the subject of several books and articles.\n\nAfter returning to the United States, the Herlihys accepted tenured positions at Brown University, where she continued to work. She also taught at Emmanuel College.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22738262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22738262", "title": "Polish Center for Holocaust Research", "text": "Polish Center for Holocaust Research\n\nThe Polish Center for Holocaust Research () is an academic and research center at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw, Poland. \n\nCreated in 2003, the Center is an interdisciplinary research facility devoted to study of the Holocaust in historical perspective. The Center gathers psychologists, sociologists, literary historians, cultural anthropologists, and other scholars in order to provide knowledge on the nature, scope, and effects of the Jewish tragedy. \n\nThe Center coordinates research and educational projects, grants, seminars, conferences, and workshops, and publishes books and papers by Polish scholars as well as translations of works in other languages. Since 2005, the Center has published an academic journal, \"Holocaust Studies and Materials\".\n\nIn order to support and expand the Center's activities, in 2007 the Association of the Polish Center for Holocaust Research was created.\n\nIn 2018, Jakub Petelewicz, speaking as academic secretary of the Polish Center for Holocaust Research, expressed concern that a 2018 Polish law criminalizing discussion of negative Polish actions in the Holocaust may hinder the work of Poland-based academics and institutions. While the law contains an exemption for academic and artistic work, he said the lack of definitions could lead to confusion. For instance, he expressed concern that presenting materials to schools and discussing findings publicly might be prevented. Another concern he raised was the possibility of being sued personally or as an institution by right-wing groups under provisions of the law allowing for lawsuits to defend \"the good name of the Polish nation.\" Petelwicz described the overall effect of the law as pressuring academics to play down negative actions by Poles and emphasize suffering by Poles.\n\nIn 2018 the Center released a Polish-language study on \"The Fate of Jews in Selected Counties of Occupied Poland\" (Polish title: \n\"Dalej jest noc\", Night Goes On), co-edited by Jan Grabowski and Barbara Engelking, and co-authored with 7 other Center members. The 1,600-page, two-volume study covers 9 counties of Poland. The Jewish Telegraphic Agency wrote that the study estimates that over half a million Jewish Holocaust victims died as a result of the actions of non-Jewish Poles. The study identified small Polish towns as particularly dangerous, or \"death traps\", for Jews in hiding. However, the book made different estimates than what the Jewish Telegraphic Agency claimed. According to the book co-edited by Grabowski and Engelking, ten percent of Jews in the General Government sought shelter among the Polish population, two-thirds of whom died, usually with Polish participation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55942833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55942833", "title": "Ralph Houlbrooke", "text": "Ralph Houlbrooke\n\nRalph Houlbrooke is emeritus professor of early modern history at the University of Reading. He is chairman of the Berkshire Record Society.\n\nPublications include:\n"}
{"id": "42833063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42833063", "title": "Sam T. Jack", "text": "Sam T. Jack\n\nSam T. Jack (31 December 1852 – 1899), a burlesque impresario, was a pioneer of the African-American vaudeville industry in the USA with his \"Creole Burlesque Show\". He was also known for staging increasingly risqué shows in Chicago, where young women appeared wearing only skin-colored tights.\n\nSam T. Jack was born on 31 December 1852 in rural Pennsylvania.\nAccording to an 1895 biography, which he may have commissioned and may be unreliable,\nhe served in the army for a short period, and then in the oil business in western Pennsylvania. In 1872 he opened the Oil City Opera in Oil City, Pennsylvania. He opened other opera houses in nearby Franklin and Titusville that specialized in melodrama.\nHis biography says that from 1873–77 he ran a showboat, and his Alice Oates Comic Opera Company toured the USA in 1880–84.\n\nThere are records of Sam Jack being the principal of the Sam Jack Stock Company in Oil City.\nJack's Oil Region Circuit was able to provide far better entertainment than had been offered in the past.\nThus at the start of the 1877-78 season he brought in the Berger family's troupe, providing a respectable entertainment of music and sketches, Duprey and Benedicts Minstrels, the Washburn troupe and the Union Square Theatre Company.\nJack was manager of Eliza Weathersby's \"Froliques\", a variety show, which also played in the oil region.\nIn 1878 the recently remodeled opera house reopened under his management.\nHe had other theater interests in the area. Thus on 13 December 1879 the Meadville Evening Republican reported, \"Mr. Sam Jack, the manager, who has given Meadville and the towns of the region so many entertainments of the highest order this season, deserves the most liberal patronage of the public ... for his enterprise and good judgment as a caterer to the best classes of theatre goers.\"\n\nIn 1879 Jack became manager of the newly renovated Pillot's Opera House in Houston.\nJack began his career as a burlesque manager in 1881, when he was responsible for the number two company of Michael B. Leavitt's Rentz-Santely review.\nIt was based in Chicago and toured the western USA.\nJack added risqué elements from Western honky‐tonk entertainments to the shows.\nAfter leaving Leavitt, Jack opened the Lilly Clay Colossal Gaiety Company, the first of his own burlesque shows.\nThe star of the show, Lilly Clay, came from England.\nLeavitt says in his memoirs that he sold Jack the title \"Lilly Clay Gaiety Company\" for $5,000 in 1889. \nJack's biography does not mention Leavitt at all, but portrays Jack as entirely self-made.\n\nSam T. Jack produced \"The Creole Show\" between 1890 and 1897. It represents a stage in the transition from the traditional minstrel shows to the vaudeville revue.\nIt is said that Sam Lucas came up with the idea of a creole burlesque company, and persuaded Sam T. Jack to put it on.\nIt was the first to present beautiful black women as chorus girls in place of the traditional all-male chorus.\nIt has been called the first black burlesque show. It included original songs, sketches and comedy numbers by black artists.\n\nThe show opened with three women interlocuters or conversationalists sitting in the center. They were flanked by eight lavishly costomed chorus girls on each side. There were male performers at each end and in the orchestra.\nThe show followed the traditional three-part minstrel pattern. In the first part there was an exchange of repartee between the interlocuters and comedians, and songs and dances by individuals and the chorus. In the second part there were various sketches and variety acts. The third part was a burlesque. The show was innovative in giving women a leading role and in introducing burlesque by African Americans.\n\n\"The Creole Show\" opened in Haverhill, Massachusetts, on 4 August 1890, and traveled to Boston, Brooklyn and Manhattan. The show opened in Chicago in 1891 in Sam T. Jack's Opera House, and toured on Jack's circuit.\nOn 4 June 1892 it was announced that Sam T. Jack had stopped traveling and settled at the Madison Street Opera House in Chicago. \nThe Creole Burlesque Company played here for most of the summer of 1893.\nIn August 1893 it was announced that \"Six women from Honolulu, dancing what manager Jack styles the Hullu-Hullu gavotte, are this week added to the drawing powers of his Creole Burlesquers.\n\nIn the 1893-94 season the cast was joined by Charles E. Johnson and Dora Dean, a dancing team that specialized in the cakewalk, the composer, performer and stage manager Bob Cole and the dancer Stella Wiley, who later married Bob Cole.\nIn the early 1890s Tom McIntosh and Hattie McIntosh had put together \"Mr. and Mrs. McIntosh in the King of Bavaria\", a vaudeville act.\nThe McIntoshes played with Sam T. Jack's Creole Show in 1894.\nOther artists who performed with the show included Billy McClain and his wife Cordelia McClain.\n\nJohn W. Isham, the advance agent for the \"Creole Show\", decided to produce his own show in 1895, also using beautiful black women as chorus girls. At first called \"Isham's Creole Opera Co.\", the name was changed to \"Isham's Octoroons\" to avoid legal challenges.\n\nIn Manhattan in the 1890s Sam T. Jack's Tenderloin Company presented living statues of young women dressed only in flesh-colored tights, and others doing daring performances of the cancan.\nPreachers in New York regularly denounced his shows.\nJack moved to Chicago, which was less straight-laced.\nHe hired the bellydancer Little Egypt (Fahreda Mazar Spyropoulos) to appear at his Chicago Theatre after her appearance at the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893.\n\nJack blatantly promoted increasingly explicit burlesque.\nHowever, Jack's shows still included many of the elements of a musical comedy or revue, which lent them some legitimacy.\nHistorians often credit Jack for the form that burlesque took in Chicago by the turn of the century.\n\nSam Jack married Emma Ward, a burlesque actress. \nHe died in 1899, leaving an estate valued at $75,000, plus real estate holdings.\nHis will was filed for probate on 2 June 1899. \nOne third of the property went to his wife, Emma, and one third to his brother, James C. Jack. \nThe rest was divided among various relatives, including his father, mother and various nephews and nieces. \nNo provision was made for his illegitimate daughter by the actress Mabel Hazelton.\nThe will said it was Jack's wish that his brother and widow should marry.\nHis widow insisted that she be given the Sam T. Jack Theatre in Chicago, while his brother received the theater in New York.\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "9415668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9415668", "title": "Shahrizor", "text": "Shahrizor\n\nShahrizor is a plain between Suleimania and Darbandikhan, situated in the southeastern part of Iraqi Kurdistan, Iraq.\n\nThe name \"Shahrazur\" is likely derived from two Iranian words: \"shah\" (king) and \"razur\" (forest), hence sharazur meaning \"kingly forest\". Herzfeld based on the fact that in classical sources the name was spelt with an initial /s/ rather /sh/, suggested \"white forest\", which he connected with the Avestan legends. Indeed, to this day the plain of Sharazur has an important status among adherents of native religion of Yarsan as a holy and sacred region where God descends for the Last Judgement. Moreover modern Assyrians continue to revere the site.\nThe 12th century geographer Yaqut al-Hamawi, based on folk etymology interpreted origin of name Sharazur, from the name of the son of Zahhak, whom he mentions as founder of the famous city of Sharazor.\n\nExtensive archaeological research, especially since 2009, at sites like Bakr Awa, Tell Begum and Gird-î Qalrakh, has shown that the plain has been continuously occupied since prehistoric times.\n\nSharazor and its king \"Yazdan Kard\" are mentioned in the Karnamag, a book of Persian mythology, of Ardashir I and also in the inscription of Narseh alongside Garmian. During the Sassanid era the region of Sharazor was one of the 5 provinces of the satrapy of Medes, an ancient Iranian people.\n\nIn the 4th century, some of inhabitants of Sharazor who had converted to Christianity were persecuted by the Sassanids. Among the prominent examples of this persecution is the killing of Bishop Shahdost Shahrazori and 128 of his followers.\n\nEmperor Heraclius spent the month of February in 628 in Shahrazur.\n\nIn the year 642 AD, Sharazor witnessed a big battle between Kurds and invading Arab Muslims aiming to conquer the Sassanid empire. After suffering massive casualties, the Arabs assumed control of it in 643 AD.\n\nSharazur was incorporated into Ardalan Principality from 11th century until the 16th and was its first capital. Its relics are the historic site of Yassin tepe. It formed afterwards part of Baban Principality.\n\nIn the Medieval era, the area was incorporated into the territories ruled by many dynasties, including Annazid, Aishanid and also Ayyubid, who were also of Kurdish origins. During the Ayyubid period the region, and the city of Erbil, were granted as a fief to the emir Gökböri by Saladin in 1190.\n\nYaqoot Hamawi describes the region of Sharazor as areas between Erbil to the west and Hamadan to the east including many cities, towns and villages. He mentions the inhabitants of the region as having been entirely Kurds, who were defended themselves from the Sultan and ruled their area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56347854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56347854", "title": "Susan Schroeder", "text": "Susan Schroeder\n\nSusan Schroeder (born 1939) is an American historian, specializing in the ethnohistory of Aztec people of Mexico and in the translation of colonial documents written in Nahuatl - especially the chronicles of Chimalpahin. She received her PhD in 1984 from UCLA where she studied Nahuatl and Latin American Colonial History with James Lockhart. She is professor emerita at Tulane University, where she taught from 1999 to 2009, after teaching at Loyola University at Chicago from 1985 to 1999. She received the lifetime achievement award of the American Society for Ethnohistory in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "9640071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9640071", "title": "The Crowd Called UBAD", "text": "The Crowd Called UBAD\n\nThe Crowd Called UBAD: Story of A People's Movement is the second book from Belizean Evan X Hyde, first published in 1972 and discussing the history of the United Black Association for Development from 1969 to 1971.\n"}
{"id": "56214179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56214179", "title": "The New Found World, or Antarctike", "text": "The New Found World, or Antarctike\n\nThe New Found World, or Antarctike (French edition: \"Les singularitez de la France antarctique, autrement nommee Amerique, & de plusieurs terres et isles decouvertes de nostre temps,\" 1557) is an account published by the French Franciscan priest and explorer André Thevet detailing his experiences in France Antarctique, a French settlement in Rio de Janeiro. Thevet based his descriptions of Rio de Janeiro on his ten weeks spent living in Brazil, as well as drawing on the reports of other travelers. The first English translation of the book was published in 1568. Thevet describes the native people and the new experiences that he saw. He goes on to describe foods that they eat, clothing, the surrounding areas, and eventually their rituals. He goes into great detail discussing cannibalism and its common use among prisoners and enemies.\n\nThroughout the book there was a big emphasis on clothing in which Thevet makes very clear that often both men and women don't wear very much if any. They did wear jewelry as well as animal skins. Thevet also goes into detail about the food and drink that they were consuming. The native people would make an alcoholic wine like substance out of roots and would drink this until they felt sick. He compares this to Europeans drinking wine. While the natives do practice cannibalism it was done in a way that was much more humane than most people thought. They did kill war prisoners but leading up until his death they were often treated nicely and humanely.\n\nThevet and his colleagues land on the Brazilian mainland on November 10, and are welcomed and fed by a delegation of native people immediately upon their arrival. At the welcoming feast, they are served an alcoholic beverage brewed from a combination of different roots. Initially hoping to venture inland or elsewhere along the coast, the expeditionary team members are informed that there is little freshwater for a significant distance away from the indigenous settlement but that they would be welcome to remain near their landing site for the time being. Venturing to a nearby inlet, Thevet and company are impressed by an array of colorful birdsㅡtheir feathers making an attractive decoration for the sparse garments of native peopleㅡand a generous bounty of fish, upon which local residents may subsist. Finally Thevet describes some of the local flora, including beautiful trees unseen in Europe and small vines utilized by the natives as accessories and for medicinal purposes.\n\nThe Catholic author acknowledges and laments the absence of organized religion in the lives of indigenous people. Although they do believe in \"Toupan\"ㅡsome sort of higher being reigning above them and governing the climateㅡthey make no clear effort to worship or honor it as a collective. Moreover, rather than believe in a great prophet similar to those venerated in Abrahamic faiths, the natives passively celebrate \"Hetich,\" the figure allegedly responsible for teaching them to cultivate the roots that became an essential staple of their diet. Thevet then digresses from this point, describing some alternative properties of the roots that emerge once separate varieties are subjected to certain external forces. Following this, the author momentarily touches upon how Christopher Columbus and his team were initially worshiped by local Amerindians, before losing this divine status once it was gradually discovered that they behaved and functioned as ordinary men. Cannibalism is addressed at the end of this chapter, being attributed to certain indigenous groups who allegedly consume human flesh as one in European society might consume any other meat.\n\nThevet also describes, in some detail, the rarity of clothing in the aboriginal society he and his companions observe. Almost without exception, men and women alike would live their entire lives completely naked. Deviations from this norm might occur at formal events, at which attendees might wear sashes or headdresses. Additionally, elderly people might cover their breasts and genitalia out of an apparent desire to hide their physical deterioration wrought by the aging process. However, it is also notable that these indigenous villagers placed a great deal of value in the garments that they made or otherwise encountered. Rather than wear these articles of clothing, the natives would frequently set them aside for fear of degrading their quality. In those instances when they did choose to wear attire, the Amerindians would always do so on a part of their body where it could easily be prevented from touching the ground at any time. Noting their ability to weave cotton for other purposes, Thevet deduces that the natives likely embrace nudity as a way for them to move and fight with agility.\n\nRelatively late in the narrative, Thevet describes a method of execution which he claims is practiced by the coastal community in which he resides. Condemned men, typically war prisoners, are given comfortable lodging, plenty of food, and even a “wife” for the period of time leading from the beginning of their internment to their deaths. The experience of captured women differed in that they were afforded greater mobility, but were also required to gather food and perform sexual favors for a predetermined man of the tribe. The unit of time throughout this period is the moon, rather than days, weeks, or months. On the final day before his or her execution, the prisoner is chained to a bed and is the subject of a ceremony in which community members gather and sing of their death. Finally, the condemned man or woman is brought to a public place, tied up, hacked to pieces, and consumed by the local populace. Male children are told to bathe in the blood of the victim, while women are tasked with eating the internal organs. All children born to a condemned man’s “widow” as a result of their copulation are to be \"nurtured\" for a brief period, before being cannibalized in the same manner as their father. The executioners, meanwhile, are honored and brilliantly accessorized with colorful feathers and body paint.\n\nThe French sent its first group of ships to Brazil in 1555 to make colonization efforts as part of France Antarctique when Nicolas Durand de Villegagnon gained control of Guanabara Bay, now Rio de Janeiro. Fort Coligny was then built there, this was used by the French to sell the Tupinambá as slaves. The Tupinambá did not have any immunity to any of the diseases that the French exposed them to, which lead to the death of may of the Tupinambá. In 1557 more ships arrive and eventually Villegagnon was forced to abandon Fort Coligny due to religious differences. The individuals that forced Villegagnon out, included Jean de Léry and André Thevet. Léry attempted to return to France with very little food. The Portuguese sent twelve ships in 1560 that gained control of Fort Coligny from the French.\n\n\"The New Found World, or Antartike\" was quickly spread throughout Europe after its publication. Europeans at the time considered Thevet’s work as an, “unusual contribution to travel literature.” In 1568, the book was translated into an English version, titled \"The New found vvorlde, or antarctike, wherein is contained woderful and strange things, as well of humaine creatures, as beastes, fishes, foules, and serpents, trees, plants, mines of golde and siluer: garnished with many learned aucthorities, trauailed and written in the French tong, by that excellent learned man, Master Andrevve Thevet, and now newly translated into Englishe, wherein is reformed the errours of the auncient cosmographer\", and an Italian edition with the title \"Historia dell'India America detta altramente Francia Antartica, di M. Andre; tradotta di francese in lingva italian\". The positive reception the book received by the European population led to a rise in Thevet’s career.\n\nThe first English Edition was published in London in 1568.\n\n"}
{"id": "34001205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34001205", "title": "Violent Lips", "text": "Violent Lips\n\nViolent Lips is a cosmetics company founded by sisters Isabella and Sophia Haddad in 2011. Their product line consists of temporary tattoo decals for the lips, which create designs not possible with traditional lipstick - such as rainbows, animal prints, and polka dots. At just 13 and 9 years old, the Haddad sisters were playing around with temporary tattoos. As a joke, they affixed them onto their lips and just like that the idea for temporary lip art was born. The products have been featured by \"Seventeen\", \"Cosmopolitan\", \"Teen Vogue\", \"Vogue Italia\", MTV Style, \"Elle Girl\", and \"Essence\". They have been worn by Khloé Kardashian, and her sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner.\n"}
{"id": "42784583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42784583", "title": "Yanla (month)", "text": "Yanla (month)\n\nYanlā (Nepal Bhasa: ञला) is the eleventh month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month coincides with Bhadrapada (भाद्रपद) in the Hindu lunar calendar and September in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nYanlā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Yanlā Thwa (ञला थ्व) and Yanlā Gā (ञला गा) respectively.\n\nAmong the major events of the month, the 4th day of the bright fortnight is Ganesha Chaturthi which marks the birthday of the Hindu deity of good fortune Ganesha. It is known as Chathā (चथा) in Nepal Bhasa.\n\nThe highlight of Yanlā is Yenyā (येँयाः). The name means \"Festival of Kathmandu\" and it is the largest religious street celebration in the Nepalese capital. Also known as Indra Jātrā, it consists of chariot processions of the Living Goddess Kumari, masked dances of deities, pageants and displays of sacred images. Yenyā lasts for eight days from the 12th day of the bright fortnight to the 4th day of the dark fortnight.\n"}
