{"id": "919504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=919504", "title": "20 Minute Workout", "text": "20 Minute Workout\n\n20 Minute Workout is a Canadian-produced aerobics-based television program that ran from 1983 to 1984, in which \"a bevy of beautiful girls\" demonstrated exercise on a rotating platform.\n\n\"20 Minute Workout\" was created by Ron Harris in 1983, produced by Tantra Entertainment in association with the Canadian animation company Nelvana, and broadcast locally on Citytv. In the United States, it was syndicated by Orion Television. Two seasons of the program were produced, although reruns continued to appear for many years afterwards. The first season featured a different instructor for each day of the week, Monday through Friday. Bess Motta, Arlaine Wright, Holly Butler, Nicole Nardini, and Anne Schumacher all had speaking roles. The second season featured only Bess and Arlaine as instructors. One selling point of the show was the young attractive girls exercising in leotards. The exercise routines were demanding, high-impact aerobics, followed by a stretching section. Pulsating music from synthesizers played in the background. For the first season, music was performed by the group Shiva, while the second season featured music by the trio Jermyn/King/Ouillet.\n\nThere are numerous websites hosted by fans that detail about the dancers, and include so-called screen-captures from the show. The \":20 Minute Workout\" is a spin-off from \"Aerobicise\", a series of home videos that were first released in 1981, which had varying subtitles of \"The Beginners Workout,\" \"The Ultimate Workout,\" and \"The Beautiful Workout.\" In 1982, a series of segments aired in the U.S. on Showtime as unscheduled filler in between features, and lasting no longer than five minutes. Both the videos and the filler featured a different cast, and unlike the show they later spawned, exercise instruction was either kept minimal, or not featured at all, and any that was present was given by an off-screen narrator. The narrator was Jami Allen, one of the show's producers.\n\n\"Aerobicise\" is also the name of the original 1982 pilot episode of \"20 Minute Workout\".\n\nScenes from the show are visible on televisions in some scenes of the 1994 Luc Besson film \"Leon: The Professional\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "841096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841096", "title": "Abdominal aortic aneurysm", "text": "Abdominal aortic aneurysm\n\nAbdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA or triple A) is a localized enlargement of the abdominal aorta such that the diameter is greater than 3 cm or more than 50% larger than normal diameter. They usually cause no symptoms except when ruptured. Occasionally, abdominal, back, or leg pain may occur. Large aneurysms can sometimes be felt by pushing on the abdomen. Rupture may result in pain in the abdomen or back, low blood pressure, or loss of consciousness, and often results in death.\nAAAs occur most commonly in those over 50 years old, in men, and among those with a family history. Additional risk factors include smoking, high blood pressure, and other heart or blood vessel diseases. Genetic conditions with an increased risk include Marfan syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. AAAs are the most common form of aortic aneurysm. About 85% occur below the kidneys with the rest either at the level of or above the kidneys. In the United States, screening with abdominal ultrasound is recommended for males between 65 and 75 years of age with a history of smoking. In the United Kingdom and Sweden, screening all men over 65 is recommended. Once an aneurysm is found, further ultrasounds are typically done on a regular basis.\nNot smoking is the single best way to prevent the disease. Other methods of prevention include treating high blood pressure, treating high blood cholesterol and not being overweight. Surgery is usually recommended when an AAA's diameter grows to >5.5 cm in males and >5.0 cm in females. Other reasons for repair include the presence of symptoms and a rapid increase in size (more than one centimeter per year). Repair may be either by open surgery or endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). As compared to open surgery, EVAR has a lower risk of death in the short term and a shorter hospital stay, but may not always be an option. There does not appear to be a difference in longer term outcomes between the two. With EVAR there is a higher need for repeat procedures.\nAAAs affect between 2 and 8% of males over the age of 65. Rates among women are one-fourth as high. In those with an aneurysm less than 5.5 cm the risk of rupture in the next year is less than 1%. Among those with an aneurysm between 5.5 and 7 cm, the risk is about 10%, while for those with an aneurysm greater than 7 cm the risk is about 33%. Mortality if ruptured is 85% to 90%. During 2013, aortic aneurysms resulted in 168,200 deaths, up from 100,000 in 1990. In the United States AAAs resulted in between 10,000 and 18,000 deaths in 2009. \n\nThe vast majority of aneurysms are asymptomatic. However, as abdominal aortic aneurysms expand, they may become painful and lead to pulsating sensations in the abdomen or pain in the chest, lower back, or scrotum. The risk of rupture is high in a symptomatic aneurysm, which is therefore considered an indication for surgery. The complications include rupture, peripheral embolization, acute aortic occlusion, and aortocaval (between the aorta and inferior vena cava) or aortoduodenal (between the aorta and the duodenum) fistulae. On physical examination, a palpable and pulsatile abdominal mass can be noted. Bruits can be present in case of renal or visceral arterial stenosis.\n\nThe signs and symptoms of a ruptured AAA may include severe pain in the lower back, flank, abdomen or groin. A mass that pulses with the heart beat may also be felt. The bleeding can lead to a hypovolemic shock with low blood pressure and a fast heart rate. This may lead to brief passing out.\n\nThe mortality of AAA rupture is as high as 90 percent. 65 to 75 percent of patients die before they arrive at the hospital and up to 90 percent die before they reach the operating room. The bleeding can be retroperitoneal or into the abdominal cavity. Rupture can also create a connection between the aorta and intestine or inferior vena cava. Flank ecchymosis (appearance of a bruise) is a sign of retroperitoneal bleeding, and is also called Grey Turner's sign.\n\nAortic aneurysm rupture may be mistaken for the pain of kidney stones, or muscle related back pain.\n\nThe exact causes of the degenerative process remain unclear. There are, however, some hypotheses and well-defined risk factors.\n\nThe most striking histopathological changes of the aneurysmatic aorta are seen in the tunica media and intima layers. These changes include the accumulation of lipids in foam cells, extracellular free cholesterol crystals, calcifications, thrombosis, and ulcerations and ruptures of the layers. Adventitial inflammatory infiltrate is present.\nHowever, the degradation of the tunica media by means of a proteolytic process seems to be the basic pathophysiologic mechanism of AAA development. Some researchers report increased expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinases in individuals with AAA. This leads to elimination of elastin from the media, rendering the aortic wall more susceptible to the influence of blood pressure. Other reports have suggested the serine protease granzyme B may contribute to aortic aneurysm rupture through the cleavage of decorin, leading to disrupted collagen organization and reduced tensile strength of the adventitia. There is also a reduced amount of vasa vasorum in the abdominal aorta (compared to the thoracic aorta); consequently, the tunica media must rely mostly on diffusion for nutrition, which makes it more susceptible to damage.\n\nHemodynamics affect the development of AAA, which has a predilection for the infrarenal aorta. The histological structure and mechanical characteristics of the infrarenal aorta differ from those of the thoracic aorta. The diameter decreases from the root to the aortic bifurcation, and the wall of the infrarenal aorta also contains a lesser proportion of elastin. The mechanical tension in the abdominal aortic wall is therefore higher than in the thoracic aortic wall. The elasticity and distensibility also decline with age, which can result in gradual dilatation of the segment. Higher intraluminal pressure in patients with arterial hypertension markedly contributes to the progression of the pathological process. Suitable hemodynamic conditions may be linked to specific intraluminal thrombus (ILT) patterns along the aortic lumen, which in turn may affect AAA's development.\n\nAn abdominal aortic aneurysm is usually diagnosed by physical exam, abdominal ultrasound, or CT scan. Plain abdominal radiographs may show the outline of an aneurysm when its walls are calcified. However, this is the case in less than half of all aneurysms. Ultrasonography is used to screen for aneurysms and to determine the size of any present. Additionally, free peritoneal fluid can be detected. It is noninvasive and sensitive, but the presence of bowel gas or obesity may limit its usefulness. CT scan has a nearly 100% sensitivity for an aneurysm and is also useful in preoperative planning, detailing the anatomy and possibility for endovascular repair. In the case of suspected rupture, it can also reliably detect retroperitoneal fluid. Alternative less often used methods for visualization of an aneurysm include MRI and angiography.\n\nAn aneurysm ruptures if the mechanical stress (tension per area) exceeds the local wall strength; consequently, peak wall stress (PWS) and peak wall rupture risk (PWRR) have been found to be more reliable parameters than diameter to assess AAA rupture risk. Medical software allows computing these rupture risk indices from standard clinical CT data and provides a patient-specific AAA rupture risk diagnosis. This type of biomechanical approach has been shown to accurately predict the location of AAA rupture.\n\nAbdominal aortic aneurysms are commonly divided according to their size and symptomatology. An aneurysm is usually defined as an outer aortic diameter over 3 cm (normal diameter of the aorta is around 2 cm), or more than 50% of normal diameter. If the outer diameter exceeds 5.5 cm, the aneurysm is considered to be large.\nA ruptured AAA is a clinical diagnosis involving the presence of the triad of abdominal pain, shock, and a pulsatile abdominal mass. If these conditions are present, indicating AAA rupture, no further clinical investigations are needed before surgery.\n\nThe suprarenal aorta normally measures about 0.5 cm larger than the infrarenal aorta.\n\n\nThe U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends a single screening abdominal ultrasound for abdominal aortic aneurysm in males age 65 to 75 years who have a history of smoking. It is unclear if screening is useful in women who have smoked and the USPSTF recommend against screening in women who have never smoked.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the NHS AAA Screening Programme invites men in England for screening during the year they turn 65. Men over 65 can contact the programme to arrange to be screened.\n\nIn Sweden one time screening is recommended in all males over 65 years of age. This has been found to decrease the risk of death from AAA by 42% with a number needed to screen of just over 200. Australia has no guideline on screening.\n\nRepeat ultrasounds should be carried out in those who have an aortic size greater than 3.0 cm. In those whose aorta is between 3.0 and 3.9 cm this should be every three years, if between 4.0 and 4.4 cm every two year, and if between 4.5 and 5.4 cm every year.\n\nThe treatment options for asymptomatic AAA are conservative management, surveillance with a view to eventual repair, and immediate repair. Two modes of repair are available for an AAA: open aneurysm repair, and endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). An intervention is often recommended if the aneurysm grows more than 1 cm per year or it is bigger than 5.5 cm. Repair is also indicated for symptomatic aneurysms.\n\nConservative management is indicated in people where repair carries a high risk of mortality and in patients where repair is unlikely to improve life expectancy. The mainstay of the conservative treatment is smoking cessation.\n\nSurveillance is indicated in small asymptomatic aneurysms (less than 5.5 cm) where the risk of repair exceeds the risk of rupture. As an AAA grows in diameter, the risk of rupture increases. Surveillance until an aneurysm has reached a diameter of 5.5 cm has not been shown to have a higher risk as compared to early intervention.\n\nNo medical therapy has been found to be effective at decreasing the growth rate or rupture rate of asymptomatic AAAs. Blood pressure and lipids should, however, be treated per usual.\n\nThe threshold for repair varies slightly from individual to individual, depending on the balance of risks and benefits when considering repair versus ongoing surveillance. The size of an individual's native aorta may influence this, along with the presence of comorbidities that increase operative risk or decrease life expectancy. Evidence; however, does not support repair if the size is between 4 cm and 5.5 cm.\n\nOpen repair is indicated in young patients as an elective procedure, or in growing or large, symptomatic or ruptured aneurysms. The aorta must be clamped off during the repair, denying blood to the abdominal organs and sections of the spinal cord; this can cause a range of complications. It is essential to make the critical part of the operation fast, so the incision is typically made large enough to facilitate the fastest repair. Recovery after open AAA surgery takes significant time. The minimums are a few days in intensive care, a week total in the hospital and a few months before full recovery.\n\nEndovascular repair first became practical in the 1990s and although it is now an established alternative to open repair, its role is yet to be clearly defined. It is generally indicated in older, high-risk patients or patients unfit for open repair. However, endovascular repair is feasible for only a proportion of AAAs, depending on the morphology of the aneurysm. The main advantages over open repair are that there is less peri-operative mortality, less time in intensive care, less time in hospital overall and earlier return to normal activity. Disadvantages of endovascular repair include a requirement for more frequent ongoing hospital reviews, and a higher chance of further procedures being required. According to the latest studies, the EVAR procedure does not offer any benefit for overall survival or health-related quality of life compared to open surgery, although aneurysm-related mortality is lower. In patients unfit for open repair, EVAR plus conservative management was associated with no benefit, more complications, subsequent procedures and higher costs compared to conservative management alone. Endovascular treatment for paraanastomotic aneurysms after aortobiiliac reconstruction is also a possibility.<ref name=\"doi:10.1590/S1677-54492008000300016\"></ref> A 2017 Cochrane review found tentative evidence of no difference in outcomes between endovascular and open repair of ruptured AAA in the first month.\n\nIn those with aortic rupture of the AAA, treatment is immediate surgical repair. There appears to be benefits to allowing permissive hypotension and limiting the use of intravenous fluids during transport to the operating room.\n\nAlthough the current standard of determining rupture risk is based on maximum diameter, it is known that smaller AAAs that fall below this threshold (diameter<5.5 cm) may also rupture, and larger AAAs (diameter>5.5 cm) may remain stable. In one report, it was shown that 10–24% of ruptured AAAs were less than 5 cm in diameter. It has also been reported that of 473 non-repaired AAAs examined from autopsy reports, there were 118 cases of rupture, 13% of which were less than 5 cm in diameter. This study also showed that 60% of the AAAs greater than 5 cm (including 54% of those AAAs between 7.1 and 10 cm) never experienced rupture. Vorp \"et al.\" later deduced from the findings of Darling \"et al.\" that if the maximum diameter criterion were followed for the 473 subjects, only 7% (34/473) of cases would have succumbed to rupture prior to surgical intervention as the diameter was less than 5 cm, with 25% (116/473) of cases possibly undergoing unnecessary surgery since these AAAs may never have ruptured.\n\nAlternative methods of rupture assessment have been recently reported. The majority of these approaches involve the numerical analysis of AAAs using the common engineering technique of the finite element method (FEM) to determine the wall stress distributions. Recent reports have shown that these stress distributions have been shown to correlate to the overall geometry of the AAA rather than solely to the maximum diameter. It is also known that wall stress alone does not completely govern failure as an AAA will usually rupture when the wall stress exceeds the wall strength. In light of this, rupture assessment may be more accurate if both the patient-specific wall stress is coupled together with patient-specific wall strength. A non-invasive method of determining patient-dependent wall strength was recently reported, with more traditional approaches to strength determination via tensile testing performed by other researchers in the field. Some of the more recently proposed AAA rupture-risk assessment methods include: AAA wall stress; AAA expansion rate; degree of asymmetry; presence of intraluminal thrombus (ILT); a rupture potential index (RPI); a finite element analysis rupture index (FEARI); biomechanical factors coupled with computer analysis; growth of ILT; geometrical parameters of the AAA; and also a method of determining AAA growth and rupture based on mathematical models.\n\nThe post-operative mortality for an already ruptured AAA has slowly decreased over several decades but remains higher than 40%. However, if the AAA is surgically repaired before rupture, the post-operative mortality rate is substantially lower: approximately 1-6%.\n\nThe occurrence of AAA varies by ethnicity. In the United Kingdom the rate of AAA in Caucasian men older than 65 years is about 4.7%, while in Asian men it is 0.45%. It is also less common in individuals of African, and Hispanic heritage. They occur four times more often in men than women.\n\nThere are at least 13,000 deaths yearly in the U.S. secondary to AAA rupture. The peak number of new cases per year among males is around 70 years of age, the percentage of males affected over 60 years is 2–6%. The frequency is much higher in smokers than in non-smokers (8:1), and the risk decreases slowly after smoking cessation. In the U.S., the incidence of AAA is 2–4% in the adult population.\n\nRupture of the AAA occurs in 1–3% of men aged 65 or more, the mortality is 70–95%.\n\nThe first historical records about AAA are from Ancient Rome in the 2nd century AD, when Greek surgeon Antyllus tried to treat the AAA with proximal and distal ligature, central incision and removal of thrombotic material from the aneurysm.\nHowever, attempts to treat the AAA surgically were unsuccessful until 1923. In that year, Rudolph Matas (who also proposed the concept of endoaneurysmorrhaphy), performed the first successful aortic ligation on a human. Other methods that were successful in treating the AAA included wrapping the aorta with polyethene cellophane, which induced fibrosis and restricted the growth of the aneurysm. Endovascular aneurysm repair was first performed in the late 1980s and has been widely adopted in the subsequent decades. Endovascular repair was first used for treating a ruptured aneurysm in Nottingham in 1994.\n\nTheoretical physicist Albert Einstein was operated on for an abdominal aortic aneurysm in 1949 by Rudolph Nissen, who wrapped the aorta with polyethene cellophane. Einstein's aneurysm ruptured on April 13, 1955. He declined surgery, saying, \"I want to go when I want. It is tasteless to prolong life artificially. I have done my share, it is time to go. I will do it elegantly.\" He died five days later at age 76.\n\nActress Lucille Ball died April 26, 1989 from an abdominal aortic aneurysm. At the time of her death, she was in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center recovering from emergency surgery performed just six days earlier because of a dissecting aortic aneurysm near her heart. Ball was at increased risk, as she had been a heavy smoker for decades.\n\nMusician Conway Twitty died in June 1993 from an abdominal aortic aneurysm, aged 59, two months before the release of what would be his final studio album, \"Final Touches\".\n\nActor George C. Scott died in 1999 from a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm at age 71.\n\nIn 2001 former presidential candidate Bob Dole underwent surgery for an abdominal aortic aneurysm in which a team led by vascular surgeon Kenneth Ouriel inserted a stent graft:\n\nActor Robert Jacks, who played Leatherface in \"\", died from an abdominal aneurysm on August 8, 2001, just one day shy of his 42nd birthday. His father also died from the same cause when Robert was a child.\n\nThere have been many calls for alternative approaches to rupture risk assessment over the past number of years, with many believing that a biomechanics-based approach may be more suitable than the current diameter approach. Numerical modeling is a valuable tool to researchers allowing approximate wall stresses to be calculated, thus revealing the rupture potential of a particular aneurysm. Experimental models are required to validate these numerical results and provide a further insight into the biomechanical behavior of the AAA. \"In vivo\", AAAs exhibit a varying range of material strengths from localised weak hypoxic regions to much stronger regions and areas of calcifications.\n\nExperimental models can now be manufactured using a novel technique involving the injection-moulding lost-wax manufacturing process to create patient-specific anatomically correct AAA replicas. Work has also focused on developing more realistic material analogues to those \"in vivo\", and recently a novel range of silicone-rubbers was created allowing the varying material properties of the AAA to be more accurately represented. These rubber models can also be used in a variety of experimental testing from stress analysis using the photoelastic method to deterimining whether the locations of rupture experimentally correlate with those predicted numerically. New endovascular devices are being developed that are able to treat more complex and tortuous anatomies.\n\nAn animal study showed that removing a single protein prevents early damage in blood vessels from triggering a later-stage, complications. By eliminating the gene for a signaling protein called cyclophilin A (CypA) from a strain of mice, researchers were able to provide complete protection against abdominal aortic aneurysm.\n\nOther recent research identified Granzyme B (GZMB) (a protein-degrading enzyme) to be a potential target in the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. Elimination of this enzyme in mice models both slowed the progression of aneurysms and improved survival.\n\n"}
{"id": "18824671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18824671", "title": "Alcohol withdrawal syndrome", "text": "Alcohol withdrawal syndrome\n\nAlcohol withdrawal syndrome is a set of symptoms that can occur following a reduction in alcohol use after a period of excessive use. Symptoms typically include anxiety, shakiness, sweating, vomiting, fast heart rate, and a mild fever. More severe symptoms may include seizures, seeing or hearing things that others do not, and delirium tremens (DTs). Symptoms typically begin around six hours following the last drink, are worst at 24 to 72 hours, and improve by seven days.\nAlcohol withdrawal may occur in those who are alcohol dependent. This may occur following a planned or unplanned decrease in alcohol intake. The underlying mechanism involves a decreased responsiveness of GABA receptors in the brain. The withdrawal process is typically followed using the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment of Alcohol Scale, revised (CIWA-Ar).\nThe typical treatment of alcohol withdrawal is with benzodiazepines such as chlordiazepoxide or diazepam. Often the amounts given are based on a person's symptoms. Thiamine is recommended routinely. Electrolyte problems and low blood sugar should also be treated. Early treatment improves outcomes.\nIn the Western world about 15% of people have problems with alcoholism at some point in time. About half of people with alcoholism will develop withdrawal symptoms upon reducing their use, with four percent developing severe symptoms. Among those with severe symptoms up to 15% die. Symptoms of alcohol withdrawal have been described at least as early as 400 BC by Hippocrates. It is not believed to have become a widespread problem until the 1800s.\n\nSigns and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal occur primarily in the central nervous system. The severity of withdrawal can vary from mild symptoms such as sleep disturbances and anxiety to severe and life-threatening symptoms such as delirium, hallucinations, and autonomic instability.\n\nWithdrawal usually begins 6 to 24 hours after the last drink. It can last for up to one week. To be classified as alcohol withdrawal syndrome, patients must exhibit at least two of the following symptoms: increased hand tremor, insomnia, nausea or vomiting, transient hallucinations (auditory, visual or tactile), psychomotor agitation, anxiety, tonic-clonic seizures, and autonomic instability.\n\nThe severity of symptoms is dictated by a number of factors, the most important of which are degree of alcohol intake, length of time the individual has been using alcohol, and previous history of alcohol withdrawal. Symptoms are also grouped together and classified:\n\nTypically the severity of the symptoms experienced depends on the amount and duration of prior alcohol consumption as well as the number and severity of previous withdrawals. Even the most severe of these symptoms can occur as soon as 2 hours after cessation; this rapid onset along the syndrome's unpredictability necessitates either pre-planned hospitalization, treatment coordinated with a doctor, or at the very least rapid access to medical care; a supporting system of friends or family should also be introduced prior to addressing detoxification. In many cases, however, symptoms follow a reasonably predictable time frame as exampled below:\n\nSix to 12 hours after the ingestion of the last drink, withdrawal symptoms such as shaking, headache, sweating, anxiety, nausea, or vomiting occur. Other comparable symptoms may also occur in this period. Twelve to 24 hours after cessation, the condition may progress to such major symptoms as confusion, hallucinations (with awareness of reality), tremor, agitation, and similar ailments.\n\nAt 24 to 48 hours following the last ethanol ingestion, the possibility of seizures should be anticipated. Meanwhile, none of the earlier withdrawal symptoms will have abated. Seizures carry the risk of death for the alcoholic.\n\nAlthough the patient's condition usually begins to improve after 48 hours, withdrawal symptoms sometimes continue to increase in severity and advance to delirium tremens, which is characterized by hallucinations that are indistinguishable from reality, severe confusion, seizures, high blood pressure, and fever that can persist anywhere from 4 to 12 days.\n\nA protracted alcohol withdrawal syndrome occurs in many alcoholics when withdrawal symptoms continue beyond the acute withdrawal stage but usually at a subacute level of intensity and gradually decreasing with severity over time. This syndrome is sometimes referred to as the post-acute-withdrawal syndrome. Some withdrawal symptoms can linger for at least a year after discontinuation of alcohol. Symptoms can include a craving for alcohol, inability to feel pleasure from normally pleasurable things (known as anhedonia), clouding of sensorium, disorientation, nausea and vomiting or headache.\n\nInsomnia is a common protracted withdrawal symptom that persists after the acute withdrawal phase of alcohol. Insomnia has also been found to influence relapse rate. Studies have found that magnesium or trazodone can help treat the persisting withdrawal symptom of insomnia in recovering alcoholics. Insomnia can be difficult to treat in alcoholics because many of the traditional sleep aids (e.g., benzodiazepine receptor agonists and barbiturate receptor agonists) work via a GABA receptor mechanism and are cross-tolerant with alcohol. However, trazodone is not cross-tolerant with alcohol. The acute phase of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome can occasionally be protracted. Protracted delirium tremens has been reported in the medical literature as a possible but unusual feature of alcohol withdrawal.\n\nChronic use of alcohol leads to changes in brain chemistry especially in the GABAergic system. Various adaptations occur such as changes in gene expression and down regulation of GABA receptors. During acute alcohol withdrawal, changes also occur such as upregulation of alpha4 containing GABA receptors and downregulation of alpha1 and alpha3 containing GABA receptors. Neurochemical changes occurring during alcohol withdrawal can be minimized with drugs which are used for acute detoxification. With abstinence from alcohol and cross tolerant drugs these changes in neurochemistry gradually return towards normal. Adaptations to the NMDA system also occur as a result of repeated alcohol intoxication and are involved in the hyper-excitability of the central nervous system during the alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Homocysteine levels, which are elevated during chronic drinking, increase even further during the withdrawal state, and may result in excitotoxicity. Alterations in ECG (in particular an increase in QT interval) and EEG abnormalities (including abnormal quantified EEG) may occur during early withdrawal. Dysfunction of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis and increased release of corticotropin-releasing hormone occur during both acute as well as protracted abstinence from alcohol and contribute to both acute and protracted withdrawal symptoms. Anhedonia/dysphoria symptoms, which can persist as part of a protracted withdrawal may be due to dopamine underactivity.\n\nKindling is a phenomenon where repeated alcohol detoxifications leads to an increased severity of the withdrawal syndrome. For example, binge drinkers may initially experience no withdrawal symptoms, but with each period of alcohol use followed by cessation, their withdrawal symptoms intensify in severity and may eventually result in full-blown delirium tremens with convulsive seizures. Alcoholics who experience seizures during detoxification are more likely to have had previous episodes of alcohol detoxification than patients who did not have seizures during withdrawal. In addition, patients with previous withdrawal syndromes are more likely to have more medically complicated alcohol withdrawal symptoms.\n\nKindling can cause complications and may increase the risk of relapse, alcohol-related brain damage and cognitive deficits. Chronic alcohol misuse and kindling via multiple alcohol withdrawals may lead to permanent alterations in the GABA receptors. The mechanism behind kindling is sensitization of some neuronal systems and desensitization of other neuronal systems which leads to increasingly gross neurochemical imbalances. This in turn leads to more profound withdrawal symptoms including anxiety, convulsions and neurotoxicity.\n\nBinge drinking is associated with increased impulsivity, impairments in spatial working memory and impaired emotional learning. These adverse effects are believed to be due to the neurotoxic effects of repeated withdrawal from alcohol on aberrant neuronal plasticity and cortical damage. Repeated periods of acute intoxication followed by acute detoxification has profound effects on the brain and is associated with an increased risk of seizures as well as cognitive deficits. The effects on the brain are similar to those seen in alcoholics who have been detoxified repeatedly but not as severe as in alcoholics who have no history of prior detox. Thus the acute withdrawal syndrome appears to be the most important factor in causing damage or impairment to brain function. The brain regions most sensitive to harm from binge drinking are the amygdala and prefrontal cortex.\n\nPeople in adolescence who experience repeated withdrawals from binge drinking show impairments of long-term nonverbal memory. Alcoholics who have had two or more alcohol withdrawals show more frontal lobe cognitive dysfunction than alcoholics who have experienced one or no prior withdrawals. Kindling of neurons is the proposed cause of withdrawal-related cognitive damage. Kindling from repeated withdrawals leads to accumulating neuroadaptational changes. Kindling may also be the reason for cognitive damage seen in binge drinkers.\n\nMany hospitals use the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol (CIWA) protocol in order to assess the level of withdrawal present and therefore the amount of medication needed. When overuse of alcohol is suspected but drinking history is unclear, testing for elevated values of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin or gammaglutamyl transferase can help make the diagnosis of alcohol overuse and dependence more clear. The CIWA has also been shortened (now called the CIWA-Ar), while retaining its validity and reliability, to help assess patients more efficiently due to the life-threatening nature of alcohol withdrawal.\n\nOther conditions that may present similarly include benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome (a condition also mainly caused by GABA receptor adaptation).\n\nBenzodiazepines are effective for the management of symptoms as well as the prevention of seizures. Certain vitamins are also an important part of the management of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. In those with severe symptoms inpatient care is often required. In those with lesser symptoms treatment at home may be possible with daily visits with a health care provider.\n\nBenzodiazepines are the most commonly used medication for the treatment of alcohol withdrawal and are generally safe and effective in suppressing symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. This class of medication is generally effective in symptoms control, but need to be used carefully. Although benzodiazepines have a long history of successfully treating and preventing withdrawal, there is no consensus on the ideal one to use. The most commonly used agents are long-acting benzodiazepines, such as chlordiazepoxide and diazepam. These are believed to be superior to other benzodiazepines for treatment of delirium and allow for longer periods between doses. However, benzodiazepines with intermediate half-lives like lorazepam may be safer in people with liver problems.\n\nThe primary debate between use of long-acting benzodiazepines and short-acting is that of ease of use. Longer-acting drugs, such as diazepam, can be administered less frequently. However, evidence does exist that \"symptom-triggered regimens\" such as those used when treating with lorazepam, are as safe and effective, but have decreased treatment duration and medication quantity used.\n\nAlthough benzodiazepines are very effective at treating alcohol withdrawal, they should be carefully used. Benzodiazepines should only be used for brief periods in alcoholics who are not already dependent on them, as they share cross tolerance with alcohol. There is a risk of replacing an alcohol addiction with benzodiazepine dependence or adding another addiction. Furthermore, disrupted GABA benzodiazepine receptor function is part of alcohol dependence and chronic benzodiazepines may prevent full recovery from alcohol induced mental effects. The combination of benzodiazepines and alcohol can amplify the adverse psychological effects of each other causing enhanced depressive effects on mood and increase suicidal actions and are generally contraindicated except for alcohol withdrawal.\n\nAlcoholics are often deficient in various nutrients, which can cause severe complications during alcohol withdrawal, such as the development of Wernicke syndrome. To help to prevent Wernicke syndrome, alcoholics should be administered a multivitamin preparation with sufficient quantities of thiamine and folic acid. During alcohol withdrawal, the prophylactic administration of thiamine, folic acid, and pyridoxine intravenously is recommended before starting any carbohydrate-containing fluids or food. These vitamins are often combined into a banana bag for intravenous administration.\n\nVery limited evidence indicates that topiramate or pregabalin may be useful in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Limited evidence supports the use of gabapentin or carbamazepine for the treatment of mild or moderate alcohol withdrawal as the sole treatment or as combination therapy with other medications; however, gabapentin does not appear to be effective for treatment of severe alcohol withdrawal and is therefore not recommended for use in this setting. A 2010 Cochrane review similarly reported that the evidence to support the role of anticonvulsants over benzodiazepines in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal is not supported. Paraldehyde combined with chloral hydrate showed superiority over chlordiazepoxide with regard to life-threatening side effects and carbamazepine may have advantages for certain symptoms. Long term anticonvulsant medications are not usually recommended in those who have had prior seizures due to withdrawal.\n\nThere are three medications used to help prevent a return to drinking: disulfiram, naltrexone, and acamprosate. They are used after withdrawal has occurred.\n\nClonidine may be used in combination with benzodiazepines to help some of the symptoms. There is insufficient evidence to support the use of baclofen for alcohol withdrawal syndrome.\n\nAntipsychotics, such as haloperidol, are sometimes used in addition to benzodiazepines to control agitation or psychosis. Antipsychotics may potentially worsen alcohol withdrawal as they lower the seizure threshold. Clozapine, olanzapine, or low-potency phenothiazines (such as chlorpromazine) are particularly risky; if used, extreme caution is required.\n\nWhile intravenous ethanol could theoretically be used, evidence to support this use, at least in those who are very sick, is insufficient.\n\nFailure to manage the alcohol withdrawal syndrome appropriately can lead to permanent brain damage or death. It has been proposed that brain damage due to alcohol withdrawal may be prevented by the administration of NMDA antagonists, calcium antagonists, and glucocorticoid antagonists.\n\nContinued use of benzodiazepines may impair recovery from psychomotor and cognitive impairments from alcohol. Cigarette smoking may slow down or interfere with recovery of brain pathways in recovering alcoholics.\n\n"}
{"id": "15680926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15680926", "title": "Anandwan", "text": "Anandwan\n\nAnandwan literally, \"Forest of happiness\", located around 5 kilometers from Warora in Chandrapur district in the state of Maharashtra, India, is an ashram and a community rehabilitation centre which was mainly started for leprosy patients and the disabled from downtrodden sections of society. It was founded in 1952 by noted social activist Baba Amte. The project is run by the organisation Maharogi Seva Samiti. Two of its other projects are Lok Biradari Prakalp and Somnath, a village for cured leprosy patients.\n\nBaba Amte developed Anandwan to be a self-contained ashram (which could be described as \"a kibbutz for the sick\"). Today residents are self-sufficient in terms of basic subsistence.\nIn addition the ashram has various home-based, small-scale industry units run by the residents that generate income to cover additional requirements.\n\nBaba Amte also shaped Anandwan as an environmentally aware community to practice energy utilization, waste recycling and minimizing use of natural resources that might otherwise lead to their depletion.\n\nAnandwan today has two hospitals, a college, an orphanage, a school for the blind, a school for the deaf and a technical wing. \nDr. Vikas Amte, Baba Amte's elder son, is the chief functionary at Anandwan. He undertook various experiments in Anandwan regarding rehabilitation which have been mentioned in a book titled 'Anandwan Prayogwan'.\n\nA book titled 'Anandwan Prayogwan' has been written by Dr. Vikas Amte which describes different experiments undertaken at Anadwan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85028", "title": "Angitia", "text": "Angitia\n\nAngitia was a goddess among the Marsi, the Paeligni and other Oscan-Umbrian peoples of central Italy. She was associated in antiquity with snake-charmers who claimed her as their ancestor. Roman interpretations probably obscure her Marsian significance.\n\nAngitia's myths vary. According to Gnaeus Gellius (late 2nd century BC), Angitia was one of the three daughters of Aeëtes, along with Medea and Circe, two of the most famed sorceresses of Greek myth. Circe, as widely known from the \"Odyssey\", practiced transforming spells; Medea ended up in Italy, where her son ruled over the Marsi. Angitia lived in the area around the Fucine lake and specialized in curing snake bites.\n\nAngitia is attested by inscriptions in the territory of the Marsi and elsewhere in the Central Apennines. She is named in three inscriptions from Luco dei Marsi, in antiquity known as \"Lucus Angitiae\", \"Sacred Grove of Angitia.\" The earliest is a dedication to the goddess \"on behalf of the Marsic legions,\" dating to the late 4th century BC. The name also appears on a dedicatory cippus from Civita d'Antino, in the Umbrian Iguvine Tablets, and in inscriptions in the territories of the Paeligni, Vestini, and Sabines. She is mentioned along with Angerona in one inscription, and in another her name appears in the plural. Another indicates that she had a temple and a treasury. The Romans derived her name from \"anguis\", \"serpent,\" hence the form \"Anguitia\".\n\nAs snakes were often associated with the healing arts in antiquity (see, for instance, rod of Asclepius), Angitia is believed to have been mainly a goddess of healing. She had powers of witchcraft, magic and medicine being regarded as complementary in the ancient world, and was a master in the art of miraculous and herbal healing, especially when it came to snakebites. She was also attributed with a wide range of powers over snakes, including the power to kill snakes with a touch.\n\nAccording to the account given by Servius, Angitia was of Greek origin, for Arigitia was the name given by the Marrubians to Medea, who after having left Colchis came to Italy with Jason and taught the people the above-mentioned remedies. Silius Italicus identifies her as Medea.\n\n"}
{"id": "45064147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45064147", "title": "Biliary pseudolithiasis", "text": "Biliary pseudolithiasis\n\nBiliary pseudolithiasis refers to an unusual complication of ceftriaxone where the drug complexes with calcium and mimics gallstones. It is reversed when ceftriaxone administration is stopped. It was first described in 1988 by Schaad et al. as \"reversible ceftriaxone-associated biliary pseudolithiasis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "622354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622354", "title": "Boris Morukov", "text": "Boris Morukov\n\nBoris Vladimirovich Morukov (; 1 October 1950 – 1 January 2015) was a Russian physician at the State Research Center RF-Institute for Biomedical Problems (IBMP). He trained with the Russian Federal Space Agency as a research-cosmonaut and flew aboard NASA Space Shuttle mission STS-106 as a mission specialist.\n\nMorukov graduated from high school in 1967 and received his M.D. from the 2nd Moscow Medical Institute (now Russian State Medical University) in 1973. He joined the professorate in space, aviation and naval medicine at the Institute for Biomedical Problems in 1978 and received a Ph.D in these disciplines in 1979. As a cosmonaut-physician, Morukov completed medical training in cardiology, gastroenterology, otolaryngology, stomatology, ophthalmology, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation between 1989-91. In 1995, he took an advanced course in emergency medical care. In 1996, he completed a medical training course in endocrinology and hematology. \n\nFrom October 1990 to February 1992, Morukov attended a basic space-training course at Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center. For more than two decades he was involved in providing medical operations support for manned space flights. From 1979-80 he provided medical support for the prolonged space missions on the space station \"Salyut 6\" as a member of the staff in Mission Control Center. From 1982-87, Morukov coordinated scientific projects dedicated to the development of countermeasures to the negative metabolic changes that occur during hypokinesia and microgravity. His specific scientific interest in this area is calcium metabolism correction. He organized a series of experiments with prolonged head-down tilt, including a 370-day experiment dedicated to the experimental testing of a countermeasure complex for prolonged space flights. He participated in a joint American-Russian medical experiment on STS-60, Mir 18/STS-71 and all other Mir-NASA Project Missions. From 1995-98 he served as the Human Life-Sciences Experiments Coordinator for the NASA-Mir scientific program. He published more than 100 scientific papers and has patents for four inventions. \n\nMorukov was first selected for medical-cosmonaut service in 1976. Based on his qualifications, he was continually offered medical-cosmonaut selection and was chosen as a cosmonaut-researcher in 1989. Upon completion of his basic cosmonaut-training in 1992, he became a cosmonaut-researcher in the Institute for Biomedical Problems. From January to July 1993, Morukov completed a technical, medical and scientific training course as a cosmonaut-researcher of the cosmonaut-physician flight on-board Mir Station Project (during Mir 15-17 Missions). From November 1997 to February 1998, he completed a regularly scheduled technical training course, which included ISS Russian-segment systems. From August 1998 to January 1999, Morukov attended the Flight-Surgeon Training Course at Johnson Space Center.\n\nMorukov served on the crew of STS-106 (8–20, 2000). The STS-106 crew successfully prepared the International Space Station for the arrival of the first permanent crew. The five astronauts and two cosmonauts delivered more than 6,600 pounds of supplies and installed batteries, power converters, a toilet and a treadmill on the Space Station. Two crew members performed a space walk in order to connect power, data and communications cables to the newly arrived Zvezda Service Module and the Space Station. Morukov logged 11 days, 19 hours, and 10 minutes in space.\n\nMorukov died on 1 January 2015, aged 64, from undisclosed causes. He is survived by his wife, Nina, son Ivan, daughter Olga, and mother, Lidia F. Khromova.\n\n"}
{"id": "189023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189023", "title": "Calisthenics", "text": "Calisthenics\n\nCalisthenics is a form of exercise consisting of a variety of gross motor movements—running, standing, grasping, pushing, etc.—often performed rhythmically and with minimal equipment, so essentially, bodyweight exercises. They are intended to increase body strength, body fitness, and flexibility, through movements such as pulling or pushing oneself up, bending, jumping, or swinging, using only one's body weight for resistance; usually conducted in concert with stretches. When performed vigorously and with variety, calisthenics can provide the benefits of muscular and aerobic conditioning, in addition to improving psychomotor skills such as balance, agility and coordination. Many consider calisthenics as \"movement through space\", meaning you can move freely without any restriction blocking your full strength.\n\nUrban calisthenics are a form of street workout; calisthenics groups perform exercise routines in urban areas. Individuals and groups train to be able to perform advanced calisthenics skills such as muscle-ups, levers, and various freestyle moves such as spins and flips.\n\nSports teams and military units often perform leader-directed group calisthenics as a form of synchronized physical training (often including a customized \"call and response\" routine) to increase group cohesion and discipline. Calisthenics are also popular as a component of physical education in primary and secondary schools over much of the globe.\n\nIn addition to general fitness, calisthenic exercises are often used as baseline physical evaluations for military organizations around the world. Two examples are the U.S. Army Physical Fitness Test and the U.S.M.C. Physical Fitness Test.\n\nThe word \"callisthenics\" comes from the ancient Greek words \"kallos\" (κάλλος), which means \"beauty\" or \"beautiful\" (to emphasize the aesthetic pleasure that derives from the perfection of the human body), and \"sthenos\" (σθένος), meaning \"strength\" (great mental strength, courage, strength and determination). It is the art of using one's bodyweight as resistance in order to develop physique.\n\nDisciples of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn brought their version of gymnastics to the United States, while Catherine Beecher and Dio Lewis set up physical education programs for women in the 19th century. Organized systems of calisthenics in America took a back seat to competitive sports after the Battle of the Systems, when the states mandated physical education systems. The Royal Canadian Air Force's calisthenics program published in the 1960s helped to launch modern fitness culture.\n\nCalisthenics is associated with the rapidly growing international sport called street workout. Street workout as a sport consists of athletes competing against one other by each showing their body-weight strength and control in timed routines to impress a panel of judges. The World Street Workout & Calisthenics Federation (WSWCF) based in Latvia orchestrates the annual National Championships in up to 50 different countries () and hosts the World Championships for all the national champions to compete at one competition. The World Calisthenics Organization (WCO) based in Los Angeles, CA. promotes a series of competitions known globally as, Battle of the Bars(R). The WCO created the first ever set of rules for true 1 vs 1 competitions, including weight classes, timed round system, original judging criteria and a 10-point must system - giving the increasing number of athletes worldwide an opportunity to compete in these worldwide competitions.\n\nIn addition to the various stretches, some of the more common calisthenic exercises include:\n\n\n\n\nAn increasing number of outdoor fitness training areas and outdoor gyms are being built around the world. Some are designed especially for calisthenics training and most are free to use by the public. Calisthenics parks have equipment like pull-up bars, monkey bars, parallel bars and box jumps at one location. Freely accessible online maps exist that show the location and sample photos of calisthenics parks around the world. \n"}
{"id": "56094924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56094924", "title": "Cannabis in Cameroon", "text": "Cannabis in Cameroon\n\nCannabis in Cameroon is illegal; the drug is locally referred to as banga.\n\nIn Cameroon, women traditionally crushed cannabis leaves and applied them to the abdomen to relieve the pains of women in labor, inserted cannabis into the vagina to maintain dry friction for their lover, and mixed cannabis with oil as a hair tonic to stimulate growth.\n\nIn 2001, the BBC reported that Cameroon would legalize medicinal cannabis, but import its supply from Canada.\n\nDouala Airport and Yaoundé Airport in Cameroon served as transit hubs for cannabis export to Europe, both locally-produced cannabis as well as product from DRC and Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "13675813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675813", "title": "Capital punishment in Austria", "text": "Capital punishment in Austria\n\nCapital punishment in Austria was abolished in 1787, although restored in 1795. Unlike other countries with a minimum age of 18, the minimum age for execution in Austria was 20.\n\nThe method of execution in Austria was hanging until the annexation by Nazi Germany (1938-1945) when it was replaced by the guillotine. After World War II, hanging was re-introduced by the British. The last person to be executed in Austria was Johann Trnka. He was hanged on March 24, 1950 for the crime of murder. Capital punishment for murder was abolished on June 30 that year; for all crimes in February 1968. Austria is a state party to the Second Optional Protocol to ICCPR (ratified 1993), Protocol No. 6 to ECHR (1984), and Protocol No. 13 to ECHR (2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "851060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=851060", "title": "Cetacean stranding", "text": "Cetacean stranding\n\nCetacean stranding, commonly known as beaching, is a phenomenon in which whales and dolphins strand themselves on land, usually on a beach. Beached whales often die due to dehydration, collapsing under their own weight, or drowning when high tide covers the blowhole. Several explanations for why cetaceans strand themselves have been proposed, but none have so far been universally accepted as a definitive reason for the peculiar behavior.\n\nEvery year, up to 2,000 animals beach themselves. Although the majority of strandings result in death, they pose no threat to any species as a whole. Only about ten cetacean species frequently display mass beachings, with ten more rarely doing so.\n\nAll frequently involved species are toothed whales (Odontoceti), rather than baleen whales (Mysticeti). These species share some characteristics which may explain why they beach.\n\nBody size does not normally affect the frequency, but both the animals' normal habitat and social organization do appear to influence their chances of coming ashore in large numbers. Odontocetes that normally inhabit deep waters and live in large, tightly knit groups are the most susceptible. This includes the sperm whale, oceanic dolphins, usually pilot and killer whales, and a few beaked whale species.\n\nSolitary species naturally do not strand en masse. Cetaceans that spend most of their time in shallow, coastal waters almost never mass strand.\n\nStrandings can be grouped into several types. The most obvious distinctions are between single and multiple strandings. The carcasses of deceased cetaceans are likely to float to the surface at some point; during this time, currents or winds may carry them to a coastline. Since thousands of cetaceans die every year, many become stranded posthumously. Most carcasses never reach the coast and are scavenged or decomposed enough to sink to the ocean bottom, where the carcass forms the basis of a unique local ecosystem called whale fall. Single live strandings are often the result of illness or injury, which almost inevitably end in death in the absence of human intervention.\nMultiple strandings in one place are rare and often attract media coverage as well as rescue efforts. Even multiple offshore deaths are unlikely to lead to multiple strandings due to variable winds and currents.\n\nA key factor in many of these cases appears to be the strong social cohesion of toothed whales. If one gets into trouble, its distress calls may prompt the rest of the pod to follow and beach themselves alongside. Many theories, some of them controversial, have been proposed to explain beaching, but the question remains unresolved.\n\nWhales have beached throughout human history, so many strandings can be attributed to natural and environmental factors, such as rough weather, weakness due to old age or infection, difficulty giving birth, hunting too close to shore, or navigation errors.\n\nIn 2004, scientists at the University of Tasmania linked whale strandings and weather, hypothesizing that when cool Antarctic waters rich in squid and fish flow north, whales follow their prey closer towards land. In some cases predators (such as killer whales) have been known to panic other whales, herding them towards the shoreline.\n\nTheir echolocation system can have difficulty picking up very gently-sloping coastlines. This theory accounts for mass beaching hot spots such as Ocean Beach, Tasmania and Geographe Bay, Western Australia where the slope is about half a degree (approximately deep out to sea). The University of Western Australia Bioacoustics group proposes that repeated reflections between the surface and ocean bottom in gently-sloping shallow water may attenuate sound so much that the echo is inaudible to the whales. Stirred up sand as well as long-lived microbubbles formed by rain may further exacerbate the effect.\n\nA 2017 study by scientists from Germany's University of Kiel suggests that large geomagnetic disruptions of the Earth's magnetic field, brought on through solar storms, could be another cause for whale beachings. The authors hypothesize that whales navigate using the Earth's magnetic field by detecting differences in the field's strength to find their way. The solar storms cause anomalies in the field, which may disturb the whales' ability to navigate, sending them into shallow waters where they get trapped. The study is based on the mass beachings of 29 sperm whales along the coasts of Germany, the Netherlands, the UK and France in 2016.\n\nSome strandings may be caused by larger cetaceans following dolphins and porpoises into shallow coastal waters. The larger animals may habituate to following faster-moving dolphins. If they encounter an adverse combination of tidal flow and seabed topography, the larger species may become trapped.\n\nSometimes following a dolphin can help a whale escape danger. In 2008, a local dolphin was followed out to open water by two Pygmy sperm whales that had become lost behind a sandbar at Mahia Beach, New Zealand. It may be possible to train dolphins to lead trapped whales out to sea.\n\nPods of killer whales, predators of dolphins and porpoises, very rarely strand. It may be that heading for shallow waters protects the smaller animals from predators and that killer whales have learned to stay away. Alternatively, killer whales have learned how to operate in shallow waters, particularly in their pursuit of seals. The latter is certainly the case in Península Valdés, Argentina, and the Crozet Islands of the Indian Ocean, where killer whales pursue seals up shelving gravel beaches to the edge of the littoral zone. The pursuing whales are occasionally partially thrust out of the sea by a combination of their own impetus and retreating water and have to wait for the next wave to carry them back to sea.\n\nIn Argentina, killer whales are known to hunt on the shore by intentionally beaching themselves and then lunging at nearby seals before riding the next wave safely back into deeper waters. This was first observed in the early 1970s, then hundreds times more since within this pod. This behavior seems to be taught from one generation to the next, evidenced by older individuals nudging juveniles towards the shore, and can sometimes also be a play activity.\n\nThere is evidence that active sonar leads to beaching. On some occasions cetaceans have stranded shortly after military sonar was active in the area, suggesting a link. Theories describing how sonar may cause whale deaths have also been advanced after necropsies found internal injuries in stranded cetaceans. In contrast, some who strand themselves due to seemingly natural causes are usually healthy prior to beaching:\n\nThe large and rapid pressure changes made by loud sonar can cause hemorrhaging. Evidence emerged after 17 cetaceans hauled out in the Bahamas in March 2000 following a United States Navy sonar exercise. The Navy accepted blame agreeing that the dead whales experienced acoustically-induced hemorrhages around the ears. The resulting disorientation probably led to the stranding. Ken Balcomb, a cetologist, specializes in the killer whale populations that inhabit the Strait of Juan de Fuca between Washington and Vancouver Island. He investigated these beachings and argues that the powerful sonar pulses resonated with airspaces in the dolphins, tearing tissue around the ears and brain. Apparently not all species are affected by sonar.\n\nAnother means by which sonar could be hurting cetaceans is a form of decompression sickness. This was first raised by necrological examinations of 14 beaked whales stranded in the Canary Islands. The stranding happened on 24 September 2002, close to the operating area of Neo Tapon (an international naval exercise) about four hours after the activation of mid-frequency sonar. The team of scientists found acute tissue damage from gas-bubble lesions, which are indicative of decompression sickness. The precise mechanism of how sonar causes bubble formation is not known. It could be due to cetaceans panicking and surfacing too rapidly in an attempt to escape the sonar pulses. There is also a theoretical basis by which sonar vibrations can cause supersaturated gas to nucleate, forming bubbles (cavitation).\n\nThe overwhelming majority of the cetaceans involved in sonar-associated beachings are Cuvier's beaked whales (\"Ziphius cavirostrus\"). This species strands frequently, but mass strandings are rare. They are so difficult to study in the wild that prior to the interest raised by the sonar controversy, most of the information about them came from stranded animals. The first to publish research linking beachings with naval activity were Simmonds and Lopez-Jurado in 1991. They noted that over the past decade there had been a number of mass strandings of beaked whales in the Canary Islands, and each time the Spanish Navy was conducting exercises. Conversely, there were no mass strandings at other times. They did not propose a theory for the strandings. A letter to \"Nature\" by Fernández \"et al.\" in 2013 reported that there had been no further mass strandings in that area following a 2004 ban by the Spanish government on military exercises in that region.\n\nIn May 1996, there was another mass stranding in West Peloponnese, Greece. At the time, it was noted as \"atypical\" both because mass strandings of beaked whales are rare, and also because the stranded whales were spread over such a long stretch of coast with each individual whale spatially separated from the next stranding. At the time of the incident, there was no connection made with active sonar; the marine biologist investigating the incident, Dr. Frantzis, made the connection to sonar because he discovered a notice to Mariners about the test. His scientific correspondence in \"Nature\" titled \"Does acoustic testing strand whales?\" was published in March 1998.\n\nDr. Peter Tyack, of Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, has been researching noise's effects on marine mammals since the 1970s. He has led much of the recent research on beaked whales (Cuvier's beaked whales in particular). Data tags have shown that Cuvier's dive considerably deeper than previously thought, and are in fact the deepest diving species of marine mammal. Their surfacing behavior is highly unusual because they exert considerable physical effort to surface in a controlled ascent, rather than simply floating to the surface like sperm whales. Deep dives are followed by three or four shallow dives. Vocalization stops at shallow depths, because of fear of predators or because they don't need vocalization to stay together at depths where there is sufficient light to see each other. The elaborate dive patterns are assumed to be necessary to control the diffusion of gases in the bloodstream. No data show a beaked whale making an uncontrolled ascent or failing to do successive shallow dives.\n\nIf a whale is beached near an inhabited locality, the rotting carcass can pose a nuisance as well as a health risk. Such very large corpses are difficult to move. The whales are often towed back out to sea away from shipping lanes, allowing them to decompose naturally, or they are towed out to sea and blown up with explosives. Government-sanctioned explosions have occurred in South Africa, Iceland, Australia and Oregon, United States. If the carcass is older, it is buried.\n\nIn New Zealand, which is the site of many whale strandings, treaties with the indigenous Māori people allow the tribal gathering and customary (that is, traditional) use of whalebone from any animal which has died as a result of stranding. Whales are regarded as \"taonga\" (spiritual treasure), descendants of the ocean god, Tangaroa, and are as such held in very high respect. Sites of whale strandings and any whale carcasses from strandings are treated as \"tapu\" sites, that is, they are regarded as sacred ground.\n\nA beached whale carcass should not be consumed. In 2002, fourteen Alaskans ate \"muktuk\" (whale blubber) from a beached whale, resulting in eight of them developing botulism, with two of the affected requiring mechanical ventilation. This is a possibility for any meat taken from an unpreserved carcass.\n\nIn 1918, approximately 1000 pilot whales were stranded on the Chatham Islands, the largest whale stranding ever recorded.\n\nIn 1985 about 450 pilot whales were stranded in Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nOn June 23, 2015, 337 dead whales were discovered in a remote fjord in Patagonia, southern Chile, the largest stranding of baleen whales to date. 305 bodies and 32 skeletons were identified by aerial and satellite photography between the Gulf of Penas and Puerto Natales, near the southern tip of South America. They may have been sei whales. This is one of only two or three such baleen mass stranding events in the last hundred years. It is highly unusual for baleens to strand other than singly, and the Patagonia baleen strandings are tentatively attributed to an unusual cause such as ingestion of poisonous algae.\n\nOn the morning of February 10, 2017, more than 416 pilot whales were discovered on a crescent of land on New Zealand’s South Island called Farewell Spit in Golden Bay at the top of the South Island, with more than 70% dead by dawn. An additional 240 whales stranded themselves late on February 11. This brought the total number of stranded pilot whales to 656, making this the second-largest whale stranding event ever recorded. About 335 of the whales were declared dead out of which 20 had to be euthanized, 200 re-floated themselves at high tide and a few were brought back to sea through human effort.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21410579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21410579", "title": "Chesson's index", "text": "Chesson's index\n\nChesson's Index refers to a lookup table of feeding selectivity described by Jean Chesson in the early 1980s. and, according to a 2006 book, is based on ecologist Dr. Bryan F. J. Manly's \"alpha section index which allows to rank plants in order according to frequency in the diet. This index is intended to show whether a preference for a food item or resource exists by comparing the availability and use of that food item. The use of this index has been widespread with more than 400 citations in the scientific literature.\n"}
{"id": "23023269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23023269", "title": "Childbirth Connection", "text": "Childbirth Connection\n\nChildbirth Connection, formerly known as the Maternity Center Association, is an American national nonprofit organization that works to improve the quality of maternity care through research, education, advocacy, and policy. Childbirth Connection promotes safe, effective evidence-based maternity care and is a voice for the interests of childbearing women and families.\n\nThe Maternity Center Association (MCA) was founded in 1918 in New York City. That year, Frances Perkins became the group's executive secretary. The organization grew out of an effort by the Women's City Club of New York City, an organization of 2000 influential women, to reduce the extreme maternal and infant mortality rates in New York City and the United States at that time. A New York City commission recommended the establishment of maternity centers, and the Women's City Club of New York responded by creating the Maternity Center Association, which ran a center for medical and nursing care.\n\nBy the 1920s, the organization was running thirty neighborhood centers throughout New York City. It soon concluded that midwives were not sufficiently well prepared. The group refocused its efforts on a single demonstration center, and worked to establish a training program or school for nurse-midwifery. \n\nThese efforts ran into opposition from some physicians, several of whom resigned from the group's board. But in 1931, in an effort spearheaded by Mary Breckinridge, the group created the first school of nurse-midwifery in the United States. The curriculum was based on the British nurse-midwifery curriculum. The school achieved significant improvements in midwifery care. From 1932 to 1958, the school's years of operation, its graduates attended 7099 births, most of them in the mother's home; the maternal death rate was 0.9 per 1000 live births, more than 10 times better than the national average during this period of 10.4 per 1000 live births. The MCA promoted its care and education ideas through a handbook, conferences, and institutes.\n\nIn 1975, concerned about \"do-it-yourself\" home births, the Association created the first urban birth center, in a modified townhouse in downtown Manhattan, for women to give birth outside hospitals. Nurse-midwives provided most of the care at the center. The center was integrated into the existing health care system, although costs were far lower than at a hospital. The MCA helped develop a quality assurance system for out-of-hospital birth centers, and offered its center as a prototype. The group's efforts led to an association now known as the American Association of Birth Centers.\n\nThe group received funding through New York charity events; Brooke Astor was a board member.\n\nStarting in the 1990s, the group moved away from providing direct services and instead expanded its policy research agenda and its public education and outreach programs. The group transferred ownership of its main childbirth center to St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City in 1996. In 2005, the group changed its name to Childbirth Connection, and adopted the tagline \"helping women and health professionals make informed maternity care decisions.\" In 2006, its education website, www.childbirthconnection.org, won a World Wide Web Health Award in the \"Patient Education Information\" category. The group continues to sponsor conferences and research programs to improve maternity care in the United States.\n\nThe group has never taken any position on abortion, because it \"deals exclusively with women who want to carry their pregnancies to term.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2777558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2777558", "title": "Conspicuous leisure", "text": "Conspicuous leisure\n\nConspicuous leisure is a concept introduced by the American economist and sociologist Thorstein Veblen, in \"The Theory of the Leisure Class (1899)\". Conspicuous or visible leisure is engaged in for the sake of displaying and attaining social status. The concept comprises those forms of leisure that seem to be fully motivated by social factors, such as taking long vacations to exotic places and bringing souvenirs back. Conspicuous leisure is observed in all societies where stratification exists. Conspicuous leisure contributes to the glorification of non-productivity, thus validating the behavior of the most powerful classes and leading the lower classes to admire rather than revile the leisure class. This aids the leisure class in retaining their status and material position. Veblen's more well-known concept of \"conspicuous consumption\" is employed when non-productivity can be more effectively demonstrated through lavish spending.\n\nVeblen argued that conspicuous leisure had deep historical roots reaching back into prehistory, and that it \"evolved\" into different forms as time passed. One example he gave was how, during the Middle Ages, the nobility was exempted from manual labor, which was reserved for serfs. Like owning land, abstaining from labor is a typical display of wealth and one that becomes more problematic as society develops into an industrial one. With the emergence of individual ownership, the leisure class completely stops contributing to the well being of their community. They no longer perform honor-positions, thus totally negating their usefulness to the society. And as society moves away from hunting and agriculture, and towards industrialization, the leisure class can no longer simply take resources from others. This is where Veblen offers us an image of the decaying Lord or Lady who has lost his or her fortune but is unable to engage in labor in order to live. These wealthy elite see labor as menial and vulgar, yet once they can no longer live their worthy life of leisure they suffer from an inability to preserve themselves.\n\nVeblen defines leisure as the non-productive consumption of time. The wealthy consume time unproductively due to a disgust of menial labor but also as evidence of their pecuniary ability to live idle lives. But there are moments when even the noble is not viewed publicly and then he must give a satisfactory account of his use of time. Often his account will manifest through the appearance of servants or some sort of craftsmen. A material proof of leisure is another way that the noble demonstrates his wealth even when he is out of the public's eye. Objects or trophies or knowledge that has no real-world application are all examples of the things that the wealthy use to demonstrate their wealth and their leisure. Displaying rules of etiquette and breeding, and formal and ceremonial observances are other demonstrations of unproductive (and therefore leisurely) uses of time.\n\nIt is also not enough for the leisure class to live a life of idleness; their servants must also engage in the performance of leisure despite their position as hired help. They are given uniforms, spacious quarters and other material items that signal the wealth of their employer: the more lavish the servants' dress and quarters, the more money the master has to spend freely. This is an example of \"conspicuous consumption,\" a form of conspicuous leisure. House servants give the illusion of \"pecuniary decency\" to the household, despite the physical discomfort that the leisure class feels at the sight of servants, who produce labor.\n\n"}
{"id": "27969937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27969937", "title": "Death with Dignity National Center", "text": "Death with Dignity National Center\n\nDeath with Dignity National Center (DDNC) is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit organization, headquartered in Portland, Oregon, that has led the legal defense of and education about Death with Dignity laws throughout the United States for 20 years. The Death with Dignity National Center helped write and defend the nation's first successful Death with Dignity law, in Oregon, protecting the right of persons with terminal illness to control their own deaths. The Death with Dignity National Center is affiliated with the Death with Dignity Political Fund, a distinct and separately incorporated 501(c)(4) organization responsible for the political defense of Death with Dignity laws and the promotion of these initiatives in other states around the U.S.\n\n\"The mission of the Death with Dignity National Center is to promote Death with Dignity laws based on our model legislation, the Oregon Death with Dignity Act, both to provide an option for dying individuals and to stimulate nationwide improvements in end-of-life care.\n\nIn 1993 Oregon Right to Die, a political action committee, was founded to draft and pass Oregon's Death with Dignity ballot measure 16. The following year the Oregon Right to Die PAC (ORDPAC) campaigned successfully for the passage of Measure 16 in Oregon; 51% of Oregon voters approved the Death with Dignity ballot initiative which created the Oregon Death With Dignity Law (DWD) allowing those who are terminally ill to hasten death in consultation with their physician and under strict safeguards, making Oregon the first U.S. state and one of the first jurisdictions in the world to officially do so. Subsequently, the Oregon Death with Dignity Legal Defense and Education Center (ODLDEC), the forerunner to the Death with Dignity National Center, a 501(c)(3) organization, was founded to defend the voter-approved law. In 1997, Oregon Right to Die Political Action Committee successfully defeated Measure 51, an attempt to ban Death with Dignity in Oregon, by a margin of 60% to 40%.\n\nAfter the successful collaboration of the Death with Dignity Alliance starting in 1997 three of the organizations in the alliance—Oregon Death with Dignity, Oregon Death with Dignity Legal Defense and Education Center, and Death with Dignity National Center—merged and became Death with Dignity National Center and Oregon Death with Dignity Political Action Fund in 2004. Another alliance member, Compassion in Dying, later merged with End-of-Life Choices (formerly the Hemlock Society) and became Compassion and Choices.\n\nIn 2000 DDNC led the effort on Question 1, the Death with Dignity campaign in Maine. The measure lost by a narrow margin, 51% to 49%, with only a 6,000 vote difference statewide. In 2001 DDNC partnered with activists in Vermont to establish Death with Dignity Vermont, and in 2002 DDNC launched an effort in Hawaii to pass Death with Dignity legislation through the legislative process. In 2003 ODLDEC is renamed the Death with Dignity National Center (DDNC).\n\nFrom 2001–2006 DDNC defended Oregon’s Death with Dignity Law against U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft and his successor Alberto Gonzales who attempted to block DWD by authorizing federal drug agents to prosecute doctors who help terminally ill patients die. In January 2006, the US Supreme Court ruled 6-3 in the case of \"Gonzales v. Oregon\", that former Attorney General John Ashcroft overstepped his authority in attempting to prosecute Oregon’s physicians and pharmacists.\n\nIn 2008 DDNC successfully led the coalition for Yes on I-1000, Washington State’s Death with Dignity campaign, to a 58%-42% win. Washington’s Death with Dignity law went into effect in March 2009.\n\nIn 2011, DDNC partnered with Patient Choices Vermont to help pass Death with Dignity legislation through their legislature. Vermont Governor Shumlin signed the Vermont Death with Dignity bill into law in 2013. In the meantime, DDNC established Dignity 2012 to pass Death with Dignity legislation in Massachusetts. The issue made it on the November ballot and was narrowly (51% to 49%) defeated.\n\nDeath with Dignity is a 501(c)(3) organization governed by a Board of Directors. Current members include:\n\n\nProminent former board members include\n\n\nThrough its different organizational structures over the years, Death with Dignity National Center has played a central role in defending and upholding Oregon's Death with Dignity law, culminating in the Supreme Court case \"Gonzales v. Oregon\".\n\nThe organization has assisted with efforts to pass Death with Dignity laws in other states such as Maine in 2000, Hawaii in 2002, and Massachusetts in 2012.\n\nThe most recent successful efforts led to the voter approved Washington Death with Dignity Act in 2008, the first-ever death with dignity law passed through a State legislature, in Vermont., and the California End of Life Option Act in 2015.\n\nIn all, Death with Dignity Center has been instrumental in drafting, passing, promoting, and defending all existing Death with Dignity statutes in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "25137320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25137320", "title": "Dissolvable tobacco", "text": "Dissolvable tobacco\n\nDissolvable tobacco is a tobacco product. Unlike ordinary chewing tobacco, it dissolves in the mouth. Major tobacco manufacturers that sell dissolvable tobacco products include R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (Camel-branded \"Orbs,\" \"Strips,\" and \"Sticks,\" 2009) and Star Scientific (\"Ariva,\" 2001 and \"Stonewall,\" 2003). The move of the major players into the smokeless tobacco market is attributed to smoke-free laws in the United States.\nResearch into health effects of this and other new tobacco products was among the reasons of the establishment of the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee of the Food and Drug Administration in 2009.\n\nCamel Dissolvables is a new line of products manufactured by R.J. Reynolds. The Camel Dissolvables line includes Camel Orbs, Camel Strips, and Camel Sticks which are currently in test markets in Columbus, Ohio, Indianapolis, and Portland, Oregon. The Camel Dissolvables brands are marketed as \"a convenient alternative to cigarettes, and moist snuff for adult tobacco consumers.\" Camel Dissolvables \"will not be positioned as a smoking cessation or reduced risk product,\" and are evolutions from the loose and pouched smokeless tobacco options. With marketing still being developed, R.J. Reynolds has announced that \"print ads, direct marketing, sampling at bars and nightclubs and point of purchase\" advertising will support the campaign.\n\nThe Camel Orbs contain finely grained tobacco mixed with \"additives such as water, flavorants, binders, colorants, pH adjusters, buffering agents, fillers, disintegration aids, humectants, antioxidants, oral care ingredients, preservatives, additives derived from herbal or botanical sources, and mixtures thereof.\" The Camel Orbs come in two styles, Mellow and Fresh. Each pellet contains 1 milligram of nicotine, dissolving in the mouth in 10–15 minutes. The Camel Sticks product is a twisted stick the size of a toothpick that lasts in the mouth about 20–30 minutes, and contains 3.1 milligrams of nicotine. The Camel Sticks are for insertion between the upper lip and gum, and come in one style, Mellow. The Camel Strips contain 0.6 milligrams of nicotine per strip and come in one style, Fresh. The Camel Strips last 2–3 minutes on the tongue, administering nicotine through thin film drug delivery technology as used in Listerine PocketPacks breath freshening strips. A specific ingredient list naming all additives has not been made public for any of the Camel Dissolvables brands.\n\nCurrently, Star Scientific manufactures two brands of dissolvable tobacco, Ariva and Stonewall. Both brands contain Virginia StarCured flue-cured powdered Virginia tobacco compressed into smoke-free, spit-free, flavored dissolvable tobacco pieces packaged in blister packages and cardboard carton. The Ariva and Stonewall brands are marketed as a means of \"reducing toxins in tobacco so that adult consumers can have access to products that expose them to sharply reduced toxin levels\" while still providing consumers with tobacco and nicotine. The product is not marketed as a smoking cessation product, but an \"alternative tobacco product\" that is \"not combusted.\" Star Scientific recommends the Ariva brand for smokers whereas, the Stonewall brand is recommended for heavy smokers, defined as smokers who consume more than one pack a day, and users of other smokeless tobacco products such as snuff. The Ariva brand has been shown to have significantly reduced levels of tobacco-specific lung carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosamino)-l-(3-pyridyl)-l-butanone (NNK) although \"exposures to other tobacco-specific nitrosamines (i.e., NNN), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (e.g., benzo[a]pyrene), and metals\" have not been assessed. However, Star Scientific notes, \"there is currently no proof that lowering nitrosamines will decrease health risk.\"\n\nThe Ariva brand, introduced in 2001, contains 1.5 milligrams of nicotine in each piece and dissolves in the mouth in 10–30 minutes. The Stonewall brand, introduced in 2003, have more surface area than the Ariva pieces and contain four milligrams of nicotine per piece, with each piece dissolving in 10–30 minutes. The Ariva brand is offered in Wintergreen flavor and the Stonewall brand is offered in Natural, Wintergreen, and Java flavors. Other than the Virginia StarCured Tobacco and \"other natural and artificial flavorings\" including the non-sugar sweetener sucralose, Star Scientific has not made a specific ingredient list public because it claims to \"seek to protect proprietary product information\" because Stonewall and Ariva are \"the only dissolvable smokeless tobacco products in the marketplace.\"\n\nOn December 18, 2012, Star Scientific announced its intention to discontinue the production of its dissolvable tobacco products, citing lagging sales and marketing difficulties due to regulations contained in the Tobacco Control Act.\n\nFrom the introduction of Ariva in 2001 there have been several public health claims that the dissolvable tobacco products pose a serious risk for unintentional poisonings in children and adolescents. Petitions from the American Cancer Society, Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, Attorneys General from 39 states, and multiple public health organizations were sent to the FDA asking for regulation of the Ariva brand and similar products. Currently, these dissolvable products, including Ariva and Camel Orbs, remain unregulated by the FDA. \n\nA recent study by the Harvard School of Public Health and Centers for Disease Control on unintentional child poisonings from ingestion of tobacco products also assessed the toxicity of the new Camel Orbs, which \"are of concern due to their discreet form, candy-like appearance, and added flavorings that may be attractive to young children.\" The study examined two flavors of Camel Orbs to find that 42% of the nicotine was in the un-ionized form, \"compared with averages of 28–30% for moist snuff and <10% for cigarettes.\" The danger of un-ionized nicotine is its more rapid absorption in the mouth, which could increase the nicotine’s toxicity. The lead researcher, Gregory Connolly, notes that \"a small pellet with a rapid release of nicotine and a young child with a low body weight can be a very serious problem,\" by creating potential for nicotine poisoning, for example, which manifests as abdominal cramps, drooling, tremors, nausea, vomiting, agitation, and in more extreme cases, seizures, coma, and death.\n\nThe study also assessed the burden of child poisonings from tobacco products across the country, finding that 13,705 tobacco product ingestion cases were reported in the two-year period, with >70% occurring in infants less than one year of age.\n\n\nPublic Health researchers are now showing that the consumption of low nitrosamine smokeless tobacco (LN-SLT) as an alternative to cigarettes may have mortality and morbidity risks for oral cancer and heart disease, but \"The risks of using LN-SLT products...should not be portrayed as comparable with those of smoking cigarettes as has been the practice of some governmental and public health authorities in the past.\"\n"}
{"id": "138301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=138301", "title": "Dwarfism", "text": "Dwarfism\n\nDwarfism, also known as short stature, occurs when an organism is extremely small. In humans, it is sometimes defined as an adult height of less than , regardless of sex, although some individuals with dwarfism are slightly taller. Disproportionate dwarfism is characterized by either short limbs or a short torso. In cases of proportionate dwarfism, both the limbs and torso are unusually small. Normal intelligence and lifespan are usual.\nTreatment depends on the underlying cause. Those with bone growth disorders can sometimes be treated with surgery, or physical therapy. Hormone disorders can also be treated with hormone replacement therapy before the child's growth plates fuse. Individual accommodations, such as specialized furniture, are often used by people with dwarfism. Many support groups provide services to aid individuals and the discrimination they may face.\nIn addition to the medical aspect of the condition, there are also social aspects. For a person with dwarfism, height discrimination can lead to ridicule in childhood and discrimination in adulthood. In the United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Australia, and other English-speaking countries, some people with dwarfism prefer to be called dwarfs, little people, or persons of short stature. Historically, the term \"midget\" was used to describe proportionate dwarfs; however, this term is now regarded as offensive by some.\n\nA defining characteristic of dwarfism is an adult height less than the 2.3rd percentile of the CDC standard growth charts. There is a wide range of physical characteristics. Variations in individuals are identified by diagnosing and monitoring the underlying disorders. There may not be any complications outside adapting to their size.\n\nShort stature is a common replacement of the term 'dwarfism', especially in a medical context. Short stature is clinically defined as a height within the lowest 2.3% of those in the general population. However, those with mild skeletal dysplasias may not be affected by dwarfism. In some cases of untreated hypochondroplasia, males grow up to 5 feet 5 inches. Though that is short in a relative context, it does not fall into the extreme ranges of the growth charts.\n\nDisproportionate dwarfism is characterized by shortened limbs or a shortened torso. In achondroplasia one has an average-sized trunk with short limbs and a larger forehead. Facial features are often affected and individual body parts may have problems associated with them. Spinal stenosis, ear infection, and hydrocephalus are common. In case of spinal dysostosis, one has a small trunk, with average-sized limbs.\n\nProportionate dwarfism is marked by a short torso with short limbs, thus leading to a height that is significantly below average. There may be long periods without any significant growth. Sexual development is often delayed or impaired into adulthood. This dwarfism type is caused by an endocrine disorder and not a skeletal dysplasia.\n\nPhysical effects of malformed bones vary according to the specific disease. Many involve joint pain caused by abnormal bone alignment, or from nerve compression. Early degenerative joint disease, exaggerated lordosis or scoliosis, and constriction of spinal cord or nerve roots can cause pain and disability. Reduced thoracic size can restrict lung growth and reduce pulmonary function. Some forms of dwarfism are associated with disordered function of other organs, such as the brain or liver, sometimes severely enough to be more of an impairment than the unusual bone growth.\n\nMental effects also vary according to the specific underlying syndrome. In most cases of skeletal dysplasia, such as achondroplasia, mental function is not impaired. However, there are syndromes which can affect the cranial structure and growth of the brain, severely impairing mental capacity. Unless the brain is directly affected by the underlying disorder, there is little to no chance of mental impairment that can be attributed to dwarfism.\n\nThe psycho-social limitations of society may be more disabling than the physical symptoms, especially in childhood and adolescence, but people with dwarfism vary greatly in the degree to which social participation and emotional health are affected.\n\nDwarfism can result from many medical conditions, each with its own separate symptoms and causes. Extreme shortness in humans with proportional body parts usually has a hormonal cause, such as growth-hormone deficiency, once called \"pituitary dwarfism\". Two disorders, achondroplasia and growth hormone deficiency, are responsible for the majority of human dwarfism cases.\n\nThe most recognizable and most common form of dwarfism in humans is achondroplasia, which accounts for 70% of dwarfism cases, and occurs in 4 to 15 out of 100,000 live births.\n\nIt produces rhizomelic short limbs, increased spinal curvature, and distortion of skull growth. In achondroplasia the body's limbs are proportionately shorter than the trunk (abdominal area), with a larger head than average and characteristic facial features. Achondroplasia is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by the presence of a faulty allele in the genome. If a pair of achondroplasia alleles are present, the result is fatal. Achondroplasia is a mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3. In the context of achondroplasia, this mutation causes FGFR3 to become constitutively active, inhibiting bone growth.\n\nResearch by urologist Harry Fisch of the Male Reproductive Center at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital indicates that in humans this defect may be exclusively inherited from the father and becomes increasingly probable with paternal age: specifically males reproducing after 35.\n\nGrowth hormone deficiency (GHD) is a medical condition in which the body produces insufficient growth hormone. Growth hormone, also called somatotropin, is a polypeptide hormone which stimulates growth and cell reproduction. If this hormone is lacking, stunted or even halted growth may become apparent. Children with this disorder may grow slowly and puberty may be delayed by several years or indefinitely. Growth hormone deficiency has no single definite cause. It can be caused by mutations of specific genes, damage to the pituitary gland, Turner's syndrome, poor nutrition, or even stress (leading to psychogenic dwarfism). Laron syndrome (growth hormone insensitivity) is another cause. Those with growth hormone issues tend to be proportionate.\n\nOther causes of dwarfism are spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita, diastrophic dysplasia, pseudoachondroplasia, hypochondroplasia, Noonan syndrome, primordial dwarfism, Turner syndrome, osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), and hypothyroidism. Severe shortness with skeletal distortion also occurs in several of the Mucopolysaccharidoses and other storage disorders. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism may cause proportionate, yet temporary, dwarfism.\n\nSerious chronic illnesses may produce dwarfism as a side effect. Harsh environmental conditions, such as malnutrition, may also produce dwarfism. These types of dwarfism are indirect consequences of the generally unhealthy or malnourished condition of the individual, and not of any specific disease. The dwarfism often takes the form of simple short stature, without any deformities, thus leading to proportionate dwarfism. In societies where poor nutrition is widespread, the average height of the population may be reduced below its genetic potential by the lack of proper nutrition. Sometimes there is no definitive cause of short stature.\n\nDwarfism is often diagnosed in childhood on the basis of visible symptoms. A physical examination can usually suffice to diagnose certain types of dwarfism, but genetic testing and diagnostic imaging may be used to determine the exact condition. In a person's youth, growth charts that track height can be used to diagnose subtle forms of dwarfism that have no other striking physical characteristics.\n\nShort stature or stunted growth during youth is usually what brings the condition to medical attention. Skeletal dysplasia is usually suspected because of obvious physical features (e.g., unusual configuration of face or shape of skull), because of an obviously affected parent, or because body measurements (arm span, upper to lower segment ratio) indicate disproportion. Bone X-rays are often key to diagnosing a specific skeletal dysplasia, but are not the sole diagnostic tool. Most children with suspected skeletal dysplasias are referred to a genetics clinic for diagnostic confirmation and genetic counseling. Since about the year 2000, genetic tests for some of the specific disorders have become available.\n\nDuring an initial medical evaluation of shortness, the absence of disproportion and other clues listed above usually indicates causes other than bone dysplasias.\n\nIn men and women, the sole requirement for being considered a dwarf is having an adult height under and it is almost always classified with respect to the underlying condition that is the cause of the short stature. Dwarfism is usually caused by a genetic variant; achondroplasia is caused by a mutation on chromosome 4. If dwarfism is caused by a medical disorder, the person is referred to by the underlying diagnosed disorder. Disorders causing dwarfism are often classified by proportionality. Disproportionate dwarfism describes disorders that cause unusual proportions of the body parts, while proportionate dwarfism results in a generally uniform stunting of the body.\n\nDisorders that cause dwarfism may be classified according to one of hundreds of names, which are usually permutations of the following roots:\n\nExamples include achondroplasia and chondrodystrophy.\n\nMany types of dwarfism are currently impossible to prevent because they are genetically caused. Genetic conditions that cause dwarfism may be identified with genetic testing, by screening for the specific variations that result in the condition. However, due to the number of causes of dwarfism, it may be impossible to determine definitively if a child will be born with dwarfism.\n\nDwarfism resulting from malnutrition or a hormonal abnormality may be treated with an appropriate diet or hormonal therapy. Growth hormone deficiency may be remedied via injections of human growth hormone (HGH) during early life.\n\nGenetic mutations of most forms of dwarfism caused by bone dysplasia cannot be altered yet, so therapeutic interventions are typically aimed at preventing or reducing pain or physical disability, increasing adult height, or mitigating psychosocial stresses and enhancing social adaptation.\n\nForms of dwarfism associated with the endocrine system may be treated using hormonal therapy. If the cause is prepubescent hyposecretion of growth hormone, supplemental growth hormone may correct the abnormality. If the receptor for growth hormone is itself affected, the condition may prove harder to treat. Hypothyroidism is another possible cause of dwarfism that can be treated through hormonal therapy. Injections of thyroid hormone can mitigate the effects of the condition, but lack of proportion may be permanent.\n\nPain and disability may be ameliorated by physical therapy, braces or other orthotic devices, or by surgical procedures. The only simple interventions that increase perceived adult height are dress enhancements, such as shoe lifts or hairstyle. Growth hormone is rarely used for shortness caused by bone dysplasias, since the height benefit is typically small (less than ) and the cost high. The most effective means of increasing adult height by several inches is distraction osteogenesis, though availability is limited and the cost is high in terms of money, discomfort, and disruption of life. Most people with dwarfism do not choose this option, and it remains controversial. For other types of dwarfism, surgical treatment is not possible.\n\nThe appropriate term for describing a person of particularly short stature (or with the genetic condition achondroplasia) has historically been ambiguous, and has developed euphemistically over the past few centuries.\n\nThe noun \"dwarf\" stems from Old English \"dweorg\", originally referring to a being from Germanic mythology—a dwarf—that dwells in mountains and in the earth, and is associated with wisdom, smithing, mining, and crafting. The etymology of the word \"dwarf\" is contested, and scholars have proposed varying theories about the origins of the being, including that dwarfs may have originated as nature spirits or as beings associated with death, or as a mixture of concepts. Competing etymologies include a basis in the Indo-European root \"*dheur-\" (meaning 'damage'), the Indo-European root \"*dhreugh\" (whence modern German \"Traum\" 'dream' and \"Trug\" 'deception'), and comparisons have been made with the Old Indian \"dhvaras\" (a type of demonic being). The being may not have gained associations with small stature until a later period.\n\nThe terms \"dwarf\", \"little person\", \"LP\", and \"person of short stature\" are now generally considered acceptable by most people affected by these disorders. However, the plural \"dwarfs\" as opposed to \"dwarves\" is generally preferred in the medical context, possibly because the plural \"dwarves\" was popularized by author J.R.R. Tolkien, describing a race of characters in his \"The Lord of the Rings\" books resembling Norse dwarfs.\n\n\"Midget\", whose etymology indicates a \"tiny biting insect\", came into prominence in the mid-19th century after Harriet Beecher Stowe used it in her novels \"Sunny Memories of Foreign Lands\" and \"Old Town Folks\" where she described children and an extremely short man, respectively. Later some people of short stature considered the word to be offensive because it was the descriptive term applied to P. T. Barnum's dwarfs used for public amusement during the freak show era. It is also not considered accurate as it is not a medical term or diagnosis, though it is sometimes used as a slang term to describe those who are particularly short, whether or not they have dwarfism.\n\nDwarfs are supported to compete in sport by a number of organisations nationally and internationally.\n\nThe Dwarf Athletic Association of America and the Dwarf Sports Association UK provide opportunities for dwarfs to compete nationally and internationally in the Americas and Europe respectively.\n\nThe Dwarf Sports Association UK organises between 5 and 20 events per month for athletes with restricted growth conditions in the UK.\n\nFor instance, swimming and bicycling are often recommended for people with skeletal dysplasias, since those activities put minimal pressure on the spine.\n\nIn art, literature, and movies, dwarfs are rarely depicted as ordinary people who are very short but rather as a species apart. Novelists, artists, and moviemakers may attach special moral or aesthetic significance to their \"apartness\" or misshapenness.\n\nArtistic representations of dwarfism can be found on Greek vases and other ancient artifacts, including ancient Egyptian art in which dwarfs are likely to have been seen as a divine manifestation, with records indicating they could reach high positions in society.\n\nThe Bhagavat Purana Hindu text devotes nine chapters to the adventures of Vamana, a dwarf avatar of Lord Vishnu.\n\nDepictions of dwarfism are also found in European paintings and many illustrations. Many European paintings (especially Spanish) of the 16th–19th centuries depict dwarfs by themselves or with others. In the Talmud, it is said that the second born son of the Egyptian Pharaoh of the Bible was a dwarf. Recent scholarship has suggested that ancient Egyptians held dwarfs in high esteem. Several important mythological figures of the North American Wyandot nation are portrayed as dwarfs.\n\nAs popular media have become more widespread, the number of works depicting dwarfs have increased dramatically. Dwarfism is depicted in many books, films, and TV series such as \"Willow\", \"The Wild Wild West\", \"The Man with the Golden Gun\" (and later parodied in\" Austin Powers\"), \"Gulliver's Travels\" by Jonathan Swift, \"The Wizard of Oz\", \"Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory\", \"Bad Santa\", \"A Son of the Circus\", \"Little People Big World\", \"The Little Couple\", \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" (and its TV adaptation \"Game of Thrones\"), \"Seinfeld\", \"The Orator\", \"In Bruges\", \"The Tin Drum\" by Günter Grass, the short-lived reality show \"The Littlest Groom\", and the film \"The Station Agent\".\n\nThe Animal Planet TV series \"Pit Boss\" features dwarf actor Shorty Rossi and his talent agency, \"Shortywood Productions\", which Rossi uses to provide funding for his pit bull rescue operation, \"Shorty's Rescue\". Rossi's three full-time employees, featured in the series, are all little people and aspiring actors.\n\nIn September 2014, Creative Business House, along with Donnons Leur Une Chance, created the International Dwarf Fashion Show to raise awareness and boost self-confidence of people living with dwarfism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2667092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2667092", "title": "Everyday life", "text": "Everyday life\n\nEveryday life, daily life or routine life comprises the ways in which people typically act, think, and feel on a daily basis. Everyday life may be described as mundane, routine, natural, habitual, or normal.\n\nHuman diurnality means most people sleep at least part of the night and are active in daytime. Most eat two or three meals in a day. Working time (apart from shift work) mostly involves a daily schedule, beginning in the morning. This produces the daily rush hours experienced by many millions, and the drive time focused on by radio broadcasters. Evening is often leisure time. Bathing every day is a custom for many.\n\nBeyond these broad similarities, lifestyles vary and different people spend their days differently. Nomadic life differs from sedentism, and among the sedentary, urban people live differently from rural folk. Differences in the lives of the rich and the poor, or between factory workers and intellectuals, may go beyond their working hours. Many women spend their day in activities greatly different from those of men, and everywhere children do different things than adults.\n\nEveryday life is a key concept in cultural studies and is a specialized subject in the field of sociology. Some argue that, motivated by capitalism and industrialism's degrading effects on human existence and perception, writers and artists of the 19th century turned more towards self-reflection and the portrayal of everyday life represented in their writings and art to a noticeably greater degree than in past works, for example Renaissance literature's interest in hagiography and politics. Other theorists dispute this argument based on a long history of writings about daily life which can be seen in works from Ancient Greece, medieval Christianity and the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nIn the study of everyday life gender has been an important factor in its conceptions. Some theorists regard women as the quintessential representatives and victims of everyday life. \n\nThe connotation of everyday life is often negative and is distinctively separated from exceptional moments by its lack of distinction and differentiation, ultimately defined as the essential, taken-for-granted continuum of mundane activity that outlines forays into more esoteric experiences. It is the non-negotiable reality that exists amongst all social groupings without discrimination and is an unavoidable basis for which all human endeavor exists.\n\nMuch of everyday life is automatic in that it is driven by current environmental features as mediated by automatic cognitive processing of those features, and without any mediation by conscious choice, according to social psychologist John A. Bargh. Daily life is also studied by sociologists to investigate how it is organised and given meaning. A sociological journal called the \"Journal of Mundane Behavior\", published 2000 - 2004, studied these everyday actions.\n\nDaily entertainment once consisted mainly of telling stories in the evening. This custom developed into the theatre of ancient Greece and other professional entertainments. Reading later became less a mysterious specialty of scholars, and more a common pleasure for people who could afford books. During the 20th century mass media became prevalent in rich countries, creating among other things a daily prime time to consume fiction and other professionally produced works.\n\nDifferent media forms serve different purposes in different individuals' everyday lives—which give people the opportunities to make choices about what media form(s)--watching television, using the Internet, listening to the radio, or reading newspapers or magazines—most effectively help them to accomplish their tasks. Many people have steadily increased their daily use of the Internet, over all other media forms. Fearing changes promoted by mass entertainment, social conservatives have long censored books and films, called television a vast wasteland, and predicted that social media and other Internet sites would distract people from good personal relationships or valuable interactions. These concerns did not prevent the progressively wider popularity of these innovations.\n\nPeople's everyday lives are shaped through language and communication. They choose what to do with their time based on opinions and ideals formed through the discourse they are exposed to. Much of the dialogue people are subject to comes from the mass media, which is an important factor in what shapes human experience. The media uses language to make an impact on one’s everyday life, whether that be as small as helping to decide where to eat or as big as choosing a representative in government.\n\nTo improve people's everyday life, Phaedra Pezzullo, professor in the Department of Communication and Culture at Indiana University Bloomington, says people should seek to understand the rhetoric that so often and unnoticeably changes their lives. She writes that “...rhetoric enables us to make connections... It's about understanding how we engage with the world.”\n\nActivities of daily living (ADL) is a term used in healthcare to refer to daily self care activities within an individual's place of residence, in outdoor environments, or both. Health professionals routinely refer to the ability or inability to perform ADLs as a measurement of the functional status of a person, particularly in regard to people with disabilities and the elderly. ADLs are defined as \"the things we normally do...such as feeding ourselves, bathing, dressing, grooming, work, homemaking, and leisure.\" The ability and the extent to which the elderly can perform these activities is at the focus of gerontology and understandings of later life. In an 'active society' which sees mobility as an important norm, constant physical activity has replaced the striving towards personal growth in later life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52667122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52667122", "title": "Fred Manget", "text": "Fred Manget\n\nFred Prosper Manget (21 January 1880 – 21 January 1979) was a doctor, public servant, and medical missionary. He served for forty years in China from 1909 until the end of World War II. In 1909 Manget left the U.S. for China to pursue missionary work. He received recognition from state and local organizations for his service to the poor, and elderly, and for his Christian humanitarian efforts abroad. Manget is most notable for founding the Huzhou General Hospital in China. Huzhou General Hospital is specifically noted for its role in spreading western medical practices to northern China. He ran several clinics and dispensaries in his mission work as well as at home in the state of Georgia.\n\nManget was born on 21 January 1880 to Elizabeth DePass and Victor Eugene Manget of Marietta, Georgia. His parents inspired Manget and his sister Jennie to devote their lives to the missionary work. At the age of 12, Manget decided to become a medical missionary.\n\nFred Manget received his medical degree from the Atlanta College of Physicians and Surgeons (now Emory University School of Medicine) in 1906. He then took on an internship position at Grady Hospital in Atlanta. He later concluded his postgraduate work at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nIn 1909 Manget left for China to pursue missionary work. During his first year, he was stationed in Suzhou, a major city in the southeastern Jiangsu province of East China. He later went to Huzhou, located within the very small province of Zhejiang, China, where he opened a dispensary in a rented property. This dispensary became the first hospital established in Huzhou, China. He served as superintendent at this dispensary until 1941. After receiving aid from the Chinese, Manget was able to open up 200-bed hospital in May 1924. Manget served as superintendent of the hospital until 1941. During 1918, he served with the American Red Cross as Head Medical Officer in Siberia. There he evacuated sick and wounded Czech soldier prisoners. As a result of his service, in Russia, he was adorned by Admiral Kolchak's government.\nManget was asked to serve in the United States Public Health Commission as Senior Surgeon on Field Duty, during World War II. During his time as commissioner, he served in Burma and West China as a missionary aide to people with malaria. In 1941 he was asked to treat patients with malaria at the request of Chiang Kaishek, the Former President of the Republic of China. After Burma fell to the Japanese, he was later transferred to an area in southwest China called Kunming. In Kunming, Manget worked alongside General Claire Lee Chennault and the First American Volunteer Group of the Chinese Air Force also known as the Flying Tigers. While working with the “Flying Tigers”, Manget met Robert Lee Scott Jr.,a brigadier general in the U.S. air force during the war. It was with Colonel Robert Lee Scott Jr., that Manget coined the term \"God is my co-pilot\". This term later became the title of Scott's autobiography, which discussed his journeys as a pilot during World War II with the Flying Tigers and U.S. Air Force.\nAt the end of World War I, Dr. Manget returned to Shanghai and discussed with the representative of The Rockefeller Foundation in China about the Foundation’s intention to spread the practice of Western medicine in China. After much negotiation, the Chinese Government agreed to provide 9 acres of land, while the Foundation provided US$30,000 to build a hospital in Huzhou. The remaining needed funds for the project were provided by the Southern Methodist Church and the Northern Baptist Church in the USA.\nHuzhou General Hospital was a small hospital in a small rented building. It was first established with Dr. Manget as the only physician; later encompassing 9 acres of land, and with a staff of over 100 nurses and 100 other personnel. At its time it was noted for being the most modern medical facilities in China. The facilities of the hospital included a chemistry laboratory, an X-ray facility and a nursing school. Japanese troops later occupied the hospital from Manget. During this time the family of Dr. Manget left China. However, Dr. Manget was not willing to leave China because of the harsh treatment of the Japanese to the Chinese people. As a result of pointing out these injustices, he was arrested by the Japanese troops, who wrongly accused him of espionage. Manget was later released by the Japanese and was able to work under the strict control of the Japanese troops at Huzhou General Hospital for an addition three and a half years.\n\nAfter returning to home to Georgia in the 1950s, Manget accepted the presidency of the Manget Foundation. The Manget Foundation in Newnan, Georgia was founded in 1949 by Fred Prosper Manget's brother, Dan Manget. At the Manget Foundation, Fred Prosper Manget operated a clinic and provided free medical care to those unable to afford it. In 1952, Manget received an honorary degree from LaGrange College for his Christian humanitarian work.\n\nDuring the time from 1953 to 1961, Manget ran a clinic out of the Christian Youth Church on Capitol Avenue in Atlanta where he provided medical care every Saturday to patients.\n\nManget's first wife was Louise Anderson. Fred and Louise had four daughters during their time in China, Elizabeth DePasse Manget in 1910, Jean Logan Manget in 1912, Louise and Mildred Bomar Manget in 1920. Anderson later died in 1957. He later remarried Jennie Loyall Anderson of Macon, Georgia in 1959. His second wife died in 1976. Dr.Manget was later admitted to Wesley Woods Health Center in Atlanta in 1978. Manget died on 21 January 1979.\n"}
{"id": "21808141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21808141", "title": "Gradus Gravis affair", "text": "Gradus Gravis affair\n\nThe Gradus Gravis affair (in English: \"Serious Degree\") was a scheme of people operating in Tallinn providing prescriptions of controlled psychotropic drugs to people, mostly of Finnish origin, for a fee.\n\nGradus Gravis OÜ, once a fully licensed psychiatric clinic, opened an office near the Tallinn Passenger Port — thus, being easily accessible to people of Helsinki —, offering prescriptions of certain controlled psychotropic drugs (most notably Subutex) to everybody who would pay a fee.\n\nAccording to the Estonian Office of Healthcare, Milvi Koplus issued about 7000 prescriptions for Subutex within four months of 2003.\n\nIn connection with the affair, Estonian Medical Association cancelled membership of Rostislav Vassiljev and Milvi Koplus in 2007. This was the first case of the association cancelling membership for ethical issues.\n\nDue to the scheme becoming public, as well as reporting irregularities, the Estonian Office of Healthcare revoked the clinic's license in 2008. However, according to enquiries to four apothecaries operating near the premises, the clinic issued at least 259 prescriptions for strong psychotropic medicine in the month after the revocation, 221 of them to citizens of Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40634960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40634960", "title": "Hermaphrodites with Attitude", "text": "Hermaphrodites with Attitude\n\nHermaphrodites with Attitude was a newsletter edited by Cheryl Chase and published by the Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) between 1994 and 2005. The full archives are available online. In 2008, ISNA transferred its remaining funds, assets, and copyrights to Accord Alliance and then closed.\n\n\"Hermaphrodites with Attitude\" was published on thirteen occasions over an eleven-year period. The first issue appeared in Winter 1994, comprising 6 pages of articles, analysis and case studies, including articles by people with lived experience, activists, physicianss, and academics. It was distributed to subscribers in five countries and 14 States of the United States.\n\nThe newsletter provided a voice for intersex activists for the first time, becoming a resource for intersex people and academics. The title of the newsletter appears in the title of multiple articles describing the intersex movement, and was also displayed on banners at the first public demonstration by intersex people and allies, outside a pediatric conference in Boston, on October 26, 1996.\n\nIn the early part of the 21st-century, Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) took on staff for the first time and began to engage closely with the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society, establishing a North American Task Force on Intersex. These developments were stated in the newsletter's first issue of the 21st-century, in February 2001, which also marked a change in name to \"ISNA News\".\n\nThis shift in name of the newsletter reflected a significant shift in the goals of ISNA. Initially, Emi Koyama states that \"not only did intersex activists appropriate the medical label \"intersex\" as part of their identities, they also liberally used the word \"hermaphrodite\", which is now considered offensive, for example by naming the newsletter of Intersex Society of North America \"Hermaphrodites With Attitude\" and demonstrating under that name.\" Koyama argues that the intersex movement could not succeed with that label in addressing peer support needs, while identity politics drew in a different set of goals and interests. ISNA goals shifted to eradicate nomenclature based on hermaphroditism that was stated to be stigmatizing to intersex individuals, as well as potentially panic-inducing to parents of intersex children.\n\nThe suggested solution put forth by ISNA was to restructure the system of intersex taxonomy and nomenclature to not include the words 'hermaphrodite', 'hermaphroditism', 'sex reversal', or other similar terms.<ref name=\"http://www.isna.org/node/979\"></ref> This \"standard division of many intersex types into true hermaphroditism, male pseudohermaphroditism, and female pseudohermaphroditism\" was described by ISNA and its advocates as confusing and clinically problematic, and a replacement term, disorders of sex development was proposed by Alice Dreger, Cheryl Chase and others in 2005.\n\nISNA itself folded in 2008, following publication of a clinical paper and new clinical standards that adopted the term disorders of sex development to replace not only hermaphroditism and associated terms, but also the term intersex, in medical settings. ISNA gave a statement saying that \"at present, the new standard of care exists as little more than ideals on paper, thus falling short of its aim[s]\" to fulfill its goals. The ISNA decided its best course of action was to \"support a new organization with a mission to promote integrated, comprehensive approaches to care that enhance the overall health and well-being of persons [who are intersex] and their families.\" The ISNA transferred all of its remaining funds, assets, and copyrights to Accord Alliance and then closed.\n\nISNA has been survived or succeeded by several intersex civil society organizations, including the AIS Support Group USA (now called AISDSD), the Intersex Initiative, Bodies Like Ours, Organisation Intersex International, (now the Intersex Campaign for Equality) and Advocates for Informed Choice (now interACT).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47542076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47542076", "title": "Howard Clayton Eberline", "text": "Howard Clayton Eberline\n\nHoward Clayton Eberline (15 October 1917 – 26 May 1981) pioneer in the field of instrumentation for detecting ionizing radiation, inventor and entrepreneur. Eberline started his career at Los Alamos National Laboratory and began a long career of designing and developing radiation detection instrumentation that lead to the formation of a company that would bear his name and become a key player in the industry.\n\nEberline was born on 15 October 1917 in Soap Creek, Davis County, Iowa. His parents were Alva Rollo and Perl Alvira Hawkins Eberline from Iowa. In 1920 the family moved to Grand River, Wayne County, Iowa. In 1940, according to the U.S. Census, Eberline moved to Ward 4, Manhattan, Manhattan City, Riley, Kansas and was listed as a 'lodger'. He married Gladys Johnson on 12 April 1941. Eberline died on 26 May 1981 and was buried in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma at Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\nIn 1953, Eberline left the steady employment he had at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory and started his company Eberline Instruments, established to develop, produce and market radiation detection devices and instruments.\n\nEberline formed the Eberline Instrument Division in 1953 as a subsidiary of Reynolds Electrical and Engineering Company (REECO). He had been with the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory as a group leader in the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research (CMR) Division where he developed the alpha radiation \"poppy\" detector. The Eberline Instrument Company was established in 1958. In 1979, Eberline Instrument Company was bought by Thermo Electron Corporation that became Thermo Fisher Scientific.\n\nThe Eberline Instrument Company was the first company to have their laboratory certified under the Health Physics Society Laboratory Accreditation Program.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37679356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37679356", "title": "Infant nutrition", "text": "Infant nutrition\n\nInfant Nutrition is the description of the dietary needs of infants. A diet lacking essential calories, minerals, vitamins, or fluids is considered inadequate. Breast milk provides the best nutrition for these vital first months of growth when compared to formula. For example, breastfeeding aids in preventing anemia, obesity, and sudden infant death syndrome; and it promotes digestive health, immunity, and intelligence. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends exclusively feeding an infant breast milk, or iron fortified formula, for the first twelve months of life. Infants are usually not introduced to solid foods until four to six months of age. Historically, breastfeeding infants was the only option for nutrition otherwise the infant would parish. Breastfeeding is rarely contraindicated, but is not recommended for mothers being treated for cancer, those with active tuberculosis, HIV, substance abuse, or leukemia. Clinicians can be consulted to determine what is best for each baby. \n\nProper infant nutrition demands providing essential substances that support normal growth, functioning, development, and resistance to infections and diseases. Optimal nutrition can be achieved by deciding to breastfeed or bottle-feed the infant before birth and preparing for either decision. \n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) and the Pan American Health Organization currently recommend feeding infants only breast milk for the first six months of life. If the infant is being fed formula, it must be iron-enriched. An infant that receives exclusively breast milk for the first six months rarely needs additional vitamins or minerals. However, vitamins D and B12 may be needed if the breastfeeding mother does not have a proper intake of these vitamins. In fact, the American Academy of Pediatrics suggests all infants, breastfed or not, take a vitamin D supplement within the first days of life to prevent a deficiency or rickets. Exclusively breastfed infants will also require an iron supplement after four months, because the iron is depleted at this point from the breast milk. \n\nIt is important to know that some foods are restricted for infants. For example, whether breast- or bottle-fed, infants do not need additional fluids during the first four months of life. Excessive intake of extra fluids or supplements can have harmful effects. Fluids besides human breast milk or iron-enriched formula are not recommended. These substitutes, such as milk, juice, and water do not require what the infant needs to grow and develop, cannot be digested correctly, and have a high risk of being contaminated. Water is acceptable only for mixing formula. Honey also must be avoided because there is a high risk of botulism. Breast milk is the safest thing to give, unless the mother is advised against it by a health care professional. \n\nThe frequency of breastfeeding varies amongst each mother-infant pair. Contributing factors are the age, weight, maturity, stomach capacity, and gastric emptying of the infant; as well as the storage capacity the mother has of breast milk. Typically, feedings occur eight to twelve times per day for breastfed infants. Early on, infants may not signal when they are hungry, so parents are taught to feed the infant every three hours during the day and every four hours during the night, even if waking the infant is required. The feedings will last 30-40 minutes in the beginning, or 15-20 minutes per breast if breastfeeding. As the infant matures, the feeding times shorten. Feeding often is important to promote normal growth, development, and milk production in mothers who are breastfeeding. \n\nSolid foods should not be introduced until four to six months of age. This is delayed because the infant is not able to digest solid foods properly. Infants are born with a reflex to suck milk in, they do not have the ability to push food away. So, if solids are given, it is considered forced feeding. Giving solid foods prematurely can lead to weight gain and obesity, this is why breast milk or formula is preferred. \n\nSolid foods should be introduced from six months onward. Salt, sugar, processed meat, juices, and canned foods should be avoided. Breast milk or formula continues to be the primary source of nutrition during these months, in addition to solid foods. Solid food can be introduced during this age because the gastrointestinal tract has matured. Solids can be digested more easily, and allergic responses are less likely. The infant has begun teething by now, which will aid in chewing of solid food. Another milestone that the infant has hit by now is properly supporting and turning their head. They may do this to express a dislike in certain foods. The infant has also developed enough to participate in feedings by grasping bottles and pieces of food to feed themselves. When all of these developmental milestones are considered, it is easy to understand why introducing solid foods before six months is not recommended. \n\nWhen choosing which solid to introduce first, it is important to understand what the infant actually needs. Iron-fortified infant cereal is typically the first solid introduced due to its high iron content. Cereals can be made of rice, barley, or oatmeal. Foods must be introduced one a time over a five- to seven-day period, to be able to detect any allergic responses. Orange juice is the best thing to mix with the cereal, because the vitamin C enhances the absorption of iron. Juices like apple, pear, prune, peach, and grape need to be avoided because of the risk of gastric upset. Overall, solids can be introduced in any order after the cereal is introduced. It is important to know that solids cannot completely replace formula or breast milk until after twelve months of age. \n\nEach year in the U.S. roughly 27% of infants and children are affected by disease. Breastfeeding can lower the risk of respiratory, gastrointestinal, and other potentially life-threatening diseases. It offers protection against obesity and diabetes later in life, too. Breast milk is proven to be chemically different for each mother and infant pair. For example, a premature infant's mother will have different milk than a mature infant's mother. Breast milk can also change if an infection is detected in the infant. This natural prevention is tailored to each infant.   \nBreastfed infants are at a lower risk for acquiring iron-deficiency anemia. Infants that only consume cow’s milk become deficient in iron and are 50% more likely to lose blood in their stool. If the infant is allergic to cow’s milk, it causes inflammation of the digestive system, resulting in chronic blood loss and decreased absorption of iron. This is why formula must be iron-enriched if breastfeeding is not possible. Breast milk naturally contains lactoferrin, an iron binding protein that allows better iron absorption and digestion. Allowing the baby to absorb more iron leads to a better gut health of the infant. \n\nBreastfed infants tend to have lower incidences of obesity later in life. Breast milk leads to a slower weight gain in early infancy, and is protective against obesity and development of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes is a serious health problem where the body does not use insulin correctly. This diagnosis can cause many complications of the skin, eyes, feet, nervous system, heart, and kidneys. Therefore, it is important to prevent diabetes when possible, because it goes hand-in-hand with obesity. \n\nWhen an infant is breastfed, they are exposed to a variety of flavors due to the mother’s changing diet and breast milk. A study showed that later in life breastfed children are more likely to eat a variety of healthy foods; this happens because food preferences are ingrained early in life. So, when an infant is exposed to a variety of flavors early on, they are less likely to be picky later. Another study confirmed a decrease in obesity at ages two and four if the infant is exclusively breastfed for at least four months. Therefore, breast milk is proven again to be the best nutrition without causing obesity. \n\nSIDS is an unexplained death occurring in an infant who is one year of age or younger. Most deaths occur when the infant is sleeping. Breastfeeding will help reduce the risk of SIDS when done exclusively for any length of time . It is recommended to breastfeed the infant from birth to 6 months exclusively to decrease the risk of SIDS by 50%. Diarrhea and upper respiratory illnesses, both linked to a higher risk of SIDS, occur less frequently for infants who are breastfed when compared to babies that are not breastfed, thus reducing the risk. Also, breast milk provides necessary nutrition for the infant's brain to develop. This allows the brain of the baby to mature quickly enough so that he or she will have the response to gasp for air when needed. Lastly, breastfed babies tend to sleep for shorter periods at a time and awaken more easily. Research has shown that babies who sleep shorter and awaken from their sleep easily tend to have a lower risk of SIDS. Conclusively, most incidences happen when the infant is asleep, so it is important to exclusively breastfeed in order to reduce the incidence of SIDS. \nBreast milk is important for the infant’s digestive system. It is the best substance to give, especially over cow's milk. Infants cannot properly digest fats, which cow's milk is full of. Breast milk contains a lot of fat, too, but it also contains lipase, a substance to help break down fat to aid in digestion. This leads to infants passing softer stools, so constipation is rare in breastfed infants. Human milk also allows beneficial bacteria to grow in the infant’s intestines, which protects the mucosal barrier of the infant's stomach. This prevents harmful pathogens from harming the infant’s intestinal lining. The infant’s digestive mucosa is unable to produce antibodies until they are about four to six months old, which makes the infant susceptible to many infections. However, breast milk provides the antibodies needed for the infant to stay protected until they are able to produce their own antibodies. Breast milk also stimulates a microbiota, which results in the production of IgA. IgA is an immunoglobulin that is a first line of defense to protect the digestive tract of the infant. This immunoglobulin is much higher in infants that are breastfed than in infants that were formula-fed. \n\nColostrum is a great source of nutrition for a newborn baby, it is a thick yellow fluid that a mother first produces after birth. It has valuable nutrition that aids the baby with building immunity because it helps destroy disease-causing viruses. Other benefits of colostrum include: prevention of jaundice, aiding the baby in passing their first stool, building a strong immune system, providing a great number of vitamins and protein, and prevents low blood sugar in babies. Overall, the sticky, thick, yellow liquid called colostrum has many benefits for a newborn baby which can be only provided to the baby through breastfeeding. \n\nBreast milk also contains much more protein than cow's milk. It contains 60% protein whereas cow’s milk contains only 40% protein. Protein is very important for infants because they need more protein per pound than adults do. For the first few months of their life, this protein must come from breast milk or formula, it cannot come from cow's milk . One specific protein that breast milk has is lactoferrin, which is bacteriostatic, meaning it prevents the growth of harmful bacteria. Without protein, the baby cannot produce the immunity that its body desperately needs, resulting in a higher risk of disease and malnutrition. Breast milk provides the best source of protein for an infant.\n\nAnother immunoglobulin breast milk provides to the infant is known as IgG. IgG provides passive immunity from the mother to the infant. This means that antibodies for common childhood diseases like diphtheria, measles, poliomyelitis, and rubella are passed onto the infant naturally, if the mother was vaccinated for this in her lifetime. The infant is then protected for about 3 months, just enough time to protect them until they receive their first immunizations at 2 months.\n\nParents generally want their child to be as smart as possible and to exceed in school. Breastfeeding an infant can increase their intelligence throughout life. Mothers who exclusively breastfed their child have a higher chance of increasing their child’s intelligence. Studies have shown that infants that are breastfed for six months versus infants who were only breasted for one month have a higher intelligence score. Those children tend to have a higher intelligence score in the third and fifth grade. Their intelligence scores are also higher at the age of 15. Breastfeeding aids in the development of cognitive maturity which leads to a higher intelligence. However, this only correlated to those children which were exclusively breastfed by their mothers as infants . \n\nBreastfeeding, prehistorically, was the only way infants were nourished, there was no acceptable substitute for human milk for a long time. In 1 AD, philosophers were discovering the importance of breast milk versus any substitute. It was concluded that breastfeeding helped the mother and infant establish an emotional connection. The nutritional value was still not fully understood, but it was believed that through suckling, the infant gained not only energy, but also the characteristics and personality of whoever they fed from. It was suggested that infants be breastfed as long as possible, and many were until two to three years of age. \n\nIt was not until 16 centuries later that the importance of breast milk was truly understood. In 1748, in the book “An Essay upon Nursing, and the Management of Children, from Their Birth to Three Years of Age” by Cadogan, colostrum was recognized as a substance responsible for the elimination of meconium, and prevention of illnesses of mothers and children. Also, it was believed that a bond was established if the mother breastfed her child from the hour it was born. Wet-nurses and introducing solid food before the baby turned six months were now opposed, and mortality rates decreased once accepting the value of breastfeeding. Those that continued to feed their infants substitutes like cereals, cow’s milk, and broths too early, led to the infant's development of scurvy, rickets, gastrointestinal problems, and kidney stones.\n\nContinuing on into the 19th century, scientists were relating high rates of mortality and malnourishment to the lack of infants being breastfed. At last, breastfeeding was seen as the best and only option for infant nutrition before six months. However, in 1847, when the first commercial formula was made, it promoted the use of bottles, partly due to breasts receiving a sexual connotation during this time. With the promotion of formula, the long fight for breastfeeding took a dive. Organizations that took notice came together to promote breastfeeding once again, they included Natural Childbirth Movement, Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative launched by WHO, and United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). In 1990, these organizations pushed to protect and promote “breast milk is the best food for infants.” This value still holds true today. Factors leading to increased breastfeeding rates recently include facilities encouraging mothers to have skin-to-skin contact with the infant after birth, cultivating the initiation of breastfeeding; and facilities encouraging rooming-in, where the mother can watch for feeding cues with the infant staying in her room. \n\n"}
{"id": "57449852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57449852", "title": "International Neuropsychological Society", "text": "International Neuropsychological Society\n\nThe International Neuropsychological Society is an international non-profit learned society dedicated to promoting research in neuropsychology. It was established in 1967 with only a few members, with its membership growing to about 5,000 by 2015. Its first president was Karl H. Pribram. It was originally founded as the European International Neuropsychology Society, and was renamed to its current name in 1973. Its official journal is the \"Journal of the International Neuropsychological Society\".\n"}
{"id": "2817534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2817534", "title": "James Charlton (activist)", "text": "James Charlton (activist)\n\nJames I. Charlton is an American author, disability rights activist, and Executive Vice President of Access Living in Chicago.\n\nHe holds that disability is socially constructed.\nHe created a model of the disability rights movement that differentiates between a number of different kinds of organizations.\n\nHe has a graduate degree from the University of Chicago. Charlton has been Director of Programs, Executive Vice President and Acting President of Access Living since 1985. Charlton is an assistant professor in the Department of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He is a member of the Chicago Transit Authority's board of directors.\n\nIn 2000, he published the book \"Nothing about us without us: disability oppression and empowerment\".\n\nCharlton authored the journal article \"Peripheral Everywhere\" about disabled persons as \n\"double outcast\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53145054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53145054", "title": "Law of 1794", "text": "Law of 1794\n\nThe Law of 1794, derived from the Fourcroy Report of 1794, was enacted by the National Convention in December, 1794 in Paris, France. The law, stemming from a report from Antoine François, comte de Fourcroy, proposed the reorganization of the structure of medical education in post-revolution France and sought to lay the ground work for the institution of Hospital Medicine in France.\n\nFollowing the French Revolution, France was in need of a new wave of new medical and healthcare professionals. Doctors and surgeons, primarily military-based physicians, were killed in large numbers during the wars and were in short supply to staff medical facilities after the fighting ended. In total, it was estimated that over 600 surgeons were lost during the course of the conflicts. The Revolutionary Government instituted after the war wanted a major overhaul of the French Healthcare System. With this in mind, the Legislative Assembly of 1792 disbanded most of the medical education resources in the country. Antoine Francois comte De Fourcroy, a French Chemist who was a former member of the Ancien Régime Academy of Sciences, was called upon by the National Convention. They assigned him the role of planning out a new medical education system that would provide a new way of teaching medical students. It was the goal of the Revolutionary Government to establish new \"ecole de sante\" (medical schools) more in line with the principles of the new government and to reorganized the disarrayed and fractured healthcare education system. After the revolution, doctors and surgeons in hospitals around France had an unprecedented number of corpses at their disposal and relatively lax oversight in terms of their dissection. This provided them with a strong opportunity to pathologize and classify new diseases and abnormalities from the plethora of dead bodies that occupied the hospitals. Fourcroy sought to take advantage of these newly accessible corpses for the purpose of educating new medical students with a more hands-on experience. He was convinced that an interaction between medical students and actual human bodies was essential to the medical education experience, stating that, in his new proposed system, students would \"read little, see much, do much\".\n\nSeeing the work proposed by several of his contemparies, such as Phillipe Pinel, Marie Francois Xavier Bichat and Rene Laennec, who sought to combine information gathered from surgery and medical practice together, Fourcroy proposed a report that encouraged the combination of medical education and surgical education as one comprehensive teaching model to give medical students a more complete education. Formerly, medical practitioners would only gain surgical license and education through formal surgical apprenticeships that did not exist within the tradition medical school. Following Fourcroy's proposal and incorporating the readily available hospital corpses, the medical education would be moved into the hospital, so that students could learn both medical techniques and surgical techniques simultaneously. Fourcroy wished to \"eradicate the ancient separation between two estates (surgery and medicine) that has caused so much trouble\", stating that \"Medicine and surgery are two branches of the same science\".\n\nThe report by Fourcroy, assisted in part by Francois Chaussier, was delivered to the National Convention in December 1794. Parts of the report were eventually integrated into the Law of 1794, which had several effects on the medical education system in France:\n"}
{"id": "24028877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24028877", "title": "Luxembourg Red Cross", "text": "Luxembourg Red Cross\n\nThe Luxembourg Red Cross (, ) is the Luxembourg-based National Society of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement. The society was established on 8 August 1914 by Emile and Aline Mayrisch. They persuaded the mayor of Luxembourg City, the commander-in-chief of the army and representatives of the three churches to sign the founding certificate. Its President is currently Grand Duchess Maria Teresa. Michel Simonis is the managing director.\n\nThe Grand Duchess was the guest of honour at an event to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Luxembourg Red Cross Bazaar in Limpertsberg in November 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2656353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2656353", "title": "Mercy Hospital (Iowa)", "text": "Mercy Hospital (Iowa)\n\nMercy Hospital is a private not-for-profit Roman Catholic hospital located in Iowa City, Iowa. It is one of three hospitals in the city - the others being the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics and the Iowa City VA Medical Center. Mercy Hospital is sponsored by the Sisters of Mercy West Midwest Community of Omaha.\n\nMercy Hospital traces its history to 1873 when the Superior of the Davenport house of the Sisters of Mercy entered into an agreement with the University of Iowa to operate a small hospital in the community. At the request of Davenport, Iowa physician Washington Freeman Peck the Superior sent a group of nuns to Iowa City to help staff the hospital. Dr. Peck and other physicians raised $5,000 to renovate a vacant school building known as Mechanics Academy into a 20-bed hospital. This arrangement lasted until 1885, when the Sisters moved to a nearby vacant mission. In 1886, the sisters established Mercy Hospital as an independent hospital. \n\n"}
{"id": "6199904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199904", "title": "NHS-wide Clearing Service", "text": "NHS-wide Clearing Service\n\nThe NWCS was the NHS-wide Clearing Service for NHS England and NHS Wales. It was a method of data exchange between NHS organisations, for non-clinical purposes such as statistical analysis set up in 1996. Previously Hospital Episode Statistics were collected by Regional Health Authorities.\n\nIt was operated by McKesson, who supplied the ClearNET IT system and was superseded in 2007 by the Secondary Uses Service (SUS).\n"}
{"id": "18960908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960908", "title": "NHS Direct Wales", "text": "NHS Direct Wales\n\nNHS Direct Wales is a 24-hour telephone and internet health advice service provided by NHS Wales to enable people to obtain advice when use of the national emergency telephone number (999 or 112) does not seem to be appropriate but there is some degree of urgency; it also functions as a confidential advice service for some medical matters which a patient might be reluctant to discuss with their own General Practitioner (GP) and has subsidiary helplines for specific health matters such as human papillomavirus (HPV).\n\nIt does not replace any of the existing emergency or non-emergency medical services but complements those already existing and enables callers who might not be fully able to diagnose themselves to be directed to care of an appropriate level of urgency, including transport to hospital if the diagnosis merits that action.\n\nThis service was originally provided as part of NHS Direct covering both England and Wales until it was transferred to Welsh control in June 2001. On 1 April 2007 management of NHS Direct Wales was transferred from Swansea NHS Trust to the Welsh Ambulance Services NHS Trust.\n\nThe telephone number for NHS Direct Wales is 0845 46 47.\n\nNHS Direct Wales also has integrated services with many of the A&E departments in Wales where symptomatic callers phoning their A&E department will be transferred to NHS Direct for clinical triage. The service also fronts many of the helplines on behalf of Public Health dealing with issues such as the cryptosporidia outbreak in North Wales, HPV, smoking etc.\n\nThe textphone service is on 0845 606 4647.\n\nAccess via RNID Typetalk is on 18001 0845 4647.\n\nCallers receive a recorded announcement describing the services available and when appropriate will be transferred to a call handler with an option for Welsh language who will take their details and pass them on to another person with relevant skills or will arrange for them to be called back within three hours. If a problem appears serious enough then an ambulance will be sent. Callers can stay anonymous if they wish.\n\nThe NHS Direct Wales website provides a gateway to a number of resources in English, Welsh and other languages including a health encyclopaedia and the locations of GP surgeries, dentists, pharmacists, opticians, and other services.\n\nThe website does not provide an online diagnosis for current symptoms, but you can use the online enquiry service to ask a non-symptomatic question about anything else related to health, e.g. questions about health costs, questions about how to make a complaint, questions about what travel vaccinations are required.\n\n"}
{"id": "49376236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49376236", "title": "National Student Nurses Day", "text": "National Student Nurses Day\n\nNational Student Nurses Day takes place on the 8th of May every year. The celebration was initiated in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "1034794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034794", "title": "Oneirology", "text": "Oneirology\n\nOneirology (; from Greek \"ὄνειρον\", \"oneiron\", \"dream\"; and -\"λογία\", -\"logia\", \"the study of\") is the scientific study of dreams. Current research seeks correlations between dreaming and current knowledge about the functions of the brain, as well as understanding of how the brain works during dreaming as pertains to memory formation and mental disorders. The study of oneirology can be distinguished from dream interpretation in that the aim is to quantitatively study the process of dreams instead of analyzing the meaning behind them.\n\nIn the 19th century two advocates of this discipline were the French sinologists Marquis d'Hervey de Saint Denys and Alfred Maury. The field gained momentum in 1952, when Nathaniel Kleitman and his student Eugene Aserinsky discovered regular cycles. A further experiment by Kleitman and William C. Dement, then another medical student, demonstrated the particular period of sleep during which electrical brain activity, as measured by an electroencephalograph (EEG), closely resembled that of waking, in which the eyes dart about actively. This kind of sleep became known as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and Kleitman and Dement's experiment found a correlation of 0.80 between REM sleep and dreaming.\n\nResearch into dreams includes exploration of the mechanisms of dreaming, the influences on dreaming, and disorders linked to dreaming. Work in oneirology overlaps with neurology and can vary from quantifying dreams, to analyzing brain waves during dreaming, to studying the effects of drugs and neurotransmitters on sleeping or dreaming. Though debate continues about the purpose and origins of dreams, there could be great gains from studying dreams as a function of brain activity. For example, knowledge gained in this area could have implications in the treatment of certain mental illnesses. \n\nDreaming occurs mainly during REM sleep, and brain scans recording brain activity have witnessed heavy activity in the limbic system and the amygdala during this period. Though current research has reversed the myth that dreaming occurs only during REM sleep, it has also shown that the dreams reported in non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and REM differ qualitatively and quantitatively, suggesting that the mechanisms that control each are different.\n\nDuring REM sleep, researchers theorize that the brain goes through a process known as synaptic efficacy refreshment. This is observed as brain waves self-firing during sleep, in slow cycles at a rate of around 14 Hz, and is believed to serve the purpose of consolidating recent memories and reinforcing old memories. In this type of brain stimulation, the dreaming that occurs is a by-product of the process.\n\nDuring normal sleep cycles, humans alternate between normal, NREM sleep and REM sleep. The brain waves characteristic of dreaming that are observed during REM sleep are the most commonly studied in dream research because most dreaming occurs during REM sleep.\n\nIn 1952, Eugene Aserinsky discovered REM sleep while working in the surgery of his PhD advisor. Aserinsky noticed that the sleepers' eyes fluttered beneath their closed eyelids, later using a polygraph machine to record their brain waves during these periods. In one session, he awakened a subject who was wailing and crying out during REM and confirmed his suspicion that dreaming was occurring. In 1953, Aserinsky and his advisor published the ground-breaking study in \"Science\".\n\nAccumulated observation shows that dreams are strongly associated with REM sleep, during which an electroencephalogram shows brain activity to be most like wakefulness. Participant-nonremembered dreams during NREM are normally more mundane in comparison. During a typical lifespan, a human spends a total of about six years dreaming (which is about two hours each night). Most dreams last only 5 to 20 minutes. It is unknown where in the brain dreams originate, if there is a single origin for dreams, if multiple portions of the brain are involved, or what the purpose of dreaming is for the body or mind.\n\nDuring REM sleep, the release of certain neurotransmitters is completely suppressed. As a result, motor neurons are not stimulated, a condition known as REM atonia. This prevents dreams from resulting in dangerous movements of the body.\n\nAnimals have complex dreams and are able to retain and recall long sequences of events while they are asleep. Studies show that various species of mammals and birds experience REM during sleep, and follow the same series of sleeping states as humans.\n\nThe discovery that dreams take place primarily during a distinctive electrophysiological state of sleep (REM), which can be identified by objective criteria, led to rebirth of interest in this phenomenon. When REM sleep episodes were timed for their duration and subjects awakened to make reports before major editing or forgetting could take place, it was determined that subjects accurately matched the length of time they judged the dream narrative to occupy with the length of REM sleep that preceded the awakening. This close correlation of REM sleep and dream experience was the basis of the first series of reports describing the nature of dreaming: that it is a regular nightly occurrence, rather than an occasional phenomenon, and that it is a high-frequency activity within each sleep period occurring at predictable intervals of approximately every 60–90 minutes in all humans throughout the life span.\n\nREM sleep episodes and the dreams that accompany them lengthen progressively across the night, with the first episode the shortest, of approximately 10–12 minutes duration, and the second and third episodes increasing to 15–20 minutes. Dreams at the end of the night may last typically 15 minutes, although these may be experienced as several distinct stories due to momentary arousals interrupting sleep as the night ends.\n\nDream reports can normally be made 50% of the time when an awakening occurs prior to the end of the first REM period. This rate of retrieval is increased to about 99% when awakenings occur during the last REM period of the night. This increase in the ability to recall appears to be related to intensification across the night in the vividness of dream imagery, colors and emotions. The dream story itself in the last REM period is farthest from reality, containing more bizarre elements, and it is these properties, coupled with the increased likelihood of morning waking review to take place, that heighten the chance of recall of the last dream.\n\nThe definition of dream used in quantitative research is defined through four base components: 1) a form of thinking that occurs under minimal brain direction, external stimuli are blocked, and the part of the brain that recognizes self shuts down; 2) a form of experience that we believed we experience through our senses; 3) something memorable; 4) have some interpretation of experience by self. In summary, a dream, as defined by Bill Domhoff and Adam Schneider, is \"a report of a memory of a cognitive experience that happens under the kinds of conditions that are most frequently produced in a state called 'sleep.' \"\n\nCertain kinds of bizarre cognitions, such as disjunctive cognitions and interobjects, are common in dreams. \n\nInterobjects, like disjunctive cognitions, are a commonplace bizarreness of dreamlife. Interobjects are a kind of dream condensation that creates a new object that could not occur in waking life. It may have a vague structure that is described as \"something between an X and a y\". Hobson dreamt of \"a piece of hardware, something like the lock of a door or perhaps a pair of paint-frozen hinges.\" \n\nAuthentic dreams are defined by their tendency to occur \"within the realm of experience\" and reflect actual memories or experiences the dreamer can relate to. Authentic dreams are believed to be the side effect of synaptic efficacy refreshment that occurs without errors. Research suggests that the brain stimulation that occurs during dreaming authentic dreams is significant in reinforcing neurological pathways, serving as a method for the mind to \"rehearse\" certain things during sleep.\n\nIllusory dreams are defined as dreams that contain impossible, incongruent, or bizarre content and are hypothesized to stem from memory circuits accumulating efficacy errors. In theory, old memories having undergone synaptic efficacy refreshment multiple times throughout one's lifetime result in accumulating errors that manifest as illusory dreams when stimulated. Qualities of illusory dreaming have been linked to delusions observed in mental disorders. Illusory dreams are believed to most likely stem from older memories that experience this accumulation of errors in contrast to authentic dreams that stem from more recent experiences.\n\nOne aspect of dreaming studied is the capability to externally influence the contents of dreams with various stimuli. One such successful connection was made to the olfactory, influencing the emotions of dreams through a smell stimulus. Their research has shown that the introduction of a positive smelling stimulus (roses) induced positive dreams while negative smelling stimulus (rotten eggs) induced negative dreams.\n\nThough there is much debate within the field about the purpose of dreaming, a leading theory involves the consolidation of memories and experiences that occurs during REM sleep. The electric involuntary stimulus the brain undergoes during sleep is believed to be a basis for a majority of dreaming.\n\nThe link between memory, sleep, and dreams becomes more significant in studies analyzing memory consolidation during sleep. Research has shown that NREM sleep is responsible for the consolidation of facts and episodes in contrast to REM sleep that consolidates more emotionally related aspects of memory. The correlation between REM and emotional consolidation could be interpreted as the reason why dreams are of such an emotional nature and produce strong reactions from humans.\n\nIn addition to the conscious role people are aware of memory and experience playing in dreaming, unconscious effects such as health of relationships factor into the types of dreams the brain produces. Of the people analyzed, those suffering from \"insecure attachments\" were found to dream with more frequency and more vividly than those who were evaluated to have \"secure attachments.\"\n\nCorrelations between the usage of drugs and dreaming have been documented, particularly the use of drugs, such as sedatives, and the suppression of dreaming because of drugging effects on the cycles and stages of sleep while not allowing the user to reach REM. Drugs used for their stimulating properties (cocaine, methamphetamine, and ecstasy) have shown to also decrease the restorative properties of REM sleep and its duration.\n\nDreaming disorders are difficult to quantify due to the ambiguous nature of dreaming. However, dreaming disorders can be linked to psychological disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder expressed as nightmares. Research into dreaming also suggests similarity and links in illusory dreaming and delusions.\n\nDiagnostic symptoms include re-experiencing original trauma(s), by means of flashbacks or nightmares; avoidance of stimuli associated with the trauma; and increased arousal, such as difficulty falling or staying asleep, anger, and hypervigilance.\n\nLinks to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and dreaming have been made in studying the flashbacks or nightmares the victims would suffer. Measurement of the brain waves exhibited by the subjects experiencing these episodes showed great similarity between those of dreaming. The drugs used to treat those suffering from these symptoms of flashbacks and nightmares would suppress not only these traumatic episodes but also any other sort of dreaming function.\n\nThe symptoms of schizophrenia involve abnormalities in the perception or expression of reality primarily focused on delusions and hallucinations.\n\nThe delusions experienced by those with schizophrenia have been likened to the experience of illusory dreams that have come to be interpreted by the subject as actual experiences. Additional research into medication to suppress symptoms of schizophrenia have also shown to influence the REM cycle of those taking the medication and as a result influence the patterns of sleep and dreaming in the subjects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16810320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16810320", "title": "Qasr Al-Eini Museum", "text": "Qasr Al-Eini Museum\n\nThe Qasr Al-Eini Museum is a historical medical museum in Cairo, Egypt. \n\nThe museum covers the history of medicine in the Arabic Mashriq region of the Levant, and the historical role played by the Qasr Al-Eini School of Medicine as a linkage between medicine in pharaonic Egypt and modern medicine.A surgeon gynecologist and obstetrician named Dr. Mohammed Almenawi was the general secretary of the Faculty of Medicine. He came up with the idea of the Qasr Al-Eini Museum in 1976.\n\nThe library of the Museum holds the following artifacts:\n\nIt is the first museum of an Arab University of Medicine, the Kasr El Aini Hospital, and represents the oldest University of Medicine in the Orient, the Qasr Al-Eini School of Medicine. The Qasr Al-Eini Museum's first phase of building opened in 1998, and a further section opened in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "57052173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57052173", "title": "Radiation-induced lumbar plexopathy", "text": "Radiation-induced lumbar plexopathy\n\nRadiation-induced lumbar plexopathy (RILP) or radiation-induced lumbosacral plexopathy (RILSP) is nerve damage in the pelvis and lower spine area occurring as a late side effect of external beam radiation therapy.\n\nIn general terms, such nerve damage may present in stages, earlier as demyelination and later as complications of chronic radiation fibrosis. RILP occurs as a result of radiation therapy administered to treat lymphoma or cancers within the abdomen or pelvic area such as cervical, ovarian, bladder, colon, kidney, pancreatic, prostate, testicular, colorectal, colon, rectal or anal cancer. The lumbosacral plexus area is radiosensitive and radiation plexopathy can occur after exposure to mean or maximum radiation levels of 50-60 Gray with a significant rate difference noted within that range.\n\nLumbosacral plexopathy is characterized by any of the following symptoms; usually bi-lateral and symmetrical, though unilateral is known. \n\nSymptoms are typically a step-wise progression with periods of stability in between, weakness often appearing years later. Weakness frequently presents in the lower leg muscle groups. Symptoms are usually irreversible.\n\nInitial onset of symptoms may occur as early as 2 to 3 months after radiotherapy. The median onset is approximately 5 years, but can be highly variable, 2-3 decades after radiation therapy. One case study recorded the initial onset occurring 31 years post treatment.\n\nThe treatment's ionizing radiation is an activation mechanism for apoptosis (cell death) within the targeted cancer, but it can also impact nearby healthy radiosensitive tissues, like the lumbosacral plexus. The occurrence and severity of RILP is related to the magnitude of ionizing radiation and the radiosensitivity of peripheral nerves may be further aggravated when combined with chemotherapy, like taxanes and platinum drugs, during treatment.\n\nThe pathophysiological process behind radiation's RILP nerve damage has been discussed and posited since the 1960s and still is without precise definition. Consensus exists on a progression of symptoms, with a stepping (a time delay) between initial inflammation and subsequent retractile fibrosis. Proposed mechanisms of nerve damage include microvascular damage (ischemia) supplying the myelin, radiation damage of the myelin, oxygen free radical cell damage, nerve compression neuropathy and a late fibro-atrophic poorly vascularised (ischemic) phase with retractile fibrosis.\n\nThe more common source of lumbar plexopathy is a direct or secondary tumor involvement of the plexus with MRI being the typical confirmation tool. Tumors typically present with enhancement of nerve roots and T2-weighted hyperintensity. The differential consideration of RILP requires taking a medical history and neurologic examination.\n\nRILP's neurological symptoms can mimic other nerve disorders. People may present with pure lower motor neuron syndrome, a symptom of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). RILP may also be misdiagnosed as leptomeningeal metastasis often showing nodular MRI enhancement of the cauda equina nerve roots or having increased CSF protein content.\n\nOther differential diagnoses to consider are Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy, neoplastic lumbosacral plexopathy, paraneoplastic neuronopathy, diabetic lumbosacral plexopathy, degenerative disk disease (osteoporosis of the spine), Osteoarthritis of the spine, Lumbar Spinal Stenosis, post-infectious plexopathy, carcinomatous meningitis (CM), mononeuritis multiplex, and chemotherapy-induced plexopathy.\n\nThe testing to resolve a RILP diagnosis involves blood serum analysis, X-rays, EMG, MRI and Cerebrospinal Fluid analysis.\n\nSince RILP's neurological changes are typically irreversible and a curative strategy has yet to be defined, prevention is the best approach. Treating the primary cancer remains an obvious requirement, but lower levels of lumbar plexus radiation dosing will minimize or eliminate RILP.\n\nOne method to reduce the lumbosacral plexus' dosing is to include it with other at-risk organs that get spared from radiation.\nKey to prevention is resolving the lack of clinical evidence between dosing the lumbar plexus and the late onset of neurological problems, a relationship confounded by low toxicity rates and the lack of an adequate population size, the lack of aggregate data pooling across multiple institutions.\nTreatment of RILP is primarily supportive with mental, physiological and social aspects and consideration of any aggravating (synergistic) neurological factors.\n\nTo prevent compounding existing RILP symptoms and to minimize further progression\n\nThe effect on the person with the condition, depends upon the type of impairment. Handicaps may include physical challenges, bowel and/or bladder dysfunction and may occur in multiple settings of work and home. Physical and occupational therapy are important elements in maintaining mobility and use of the lower extremities, along with assistive aides such as Ankle-Foot-Orthotics (AFOs), cane, walkers, etc. Sensory reeducation techniques may be necessary for balance and lymphedema management may be required.\n\nPharmaceuticals that may be effective for RILP's neuropathic pain are\n\nNon-pharmaceutical RILP considerations are\n\nFunctional impairment and residual pain can lead to social isolation. Cancer support groups are valuable resources to learn about the syndrome and therapeutic options, and are a means to voice emotions related to having cancer and surviving it.\n\nWith increasing cancer treatment survival rates, the quality of life for its survivors has become a public health priority. The effects of RILP can be debilitating. With no effective treatment to control radiation damage's progressive nature, limb dysfunction is the likely result.\n\nRadiation damage's outcome is related to its initial onset time.\n\nAn exact occurrence rate has not been established. Literature on the topic is sparse. Clinical occurrences of RILP are rare, affecting between 0.3-1.3% of those treated with abdominal or pelvic radiation. The incidence rate is variable, dependent upon the irradiated zone, dosage level and method of delivery. For example when alternate dosing levels were compared, higher rates were observed, from 12 to 23%, the higher RILP rates occurring with higher dosages.\n\nAs of 1977 cases of lumbosacral neuropathy arising from radiation therapy had been rarely reported; one of the earliest cases was from 1948.\n\nThe incidence rate of peripheral neuropathy has been demonstrated to decrease when lower therapeutic radiation dosing levels are used. Radiation-induced Brachial Plexopathy (RIBP) may occur secondary to breast radiation therapy. Studies on RIBP have observed the brachial plexus' radiosensitivity. Injury was observed after dosages of 40 Gy in 20 fractions and RIBP significantly increased with doses greater than 2 Gy per fraction. RIBP is more common than lumbosacral radiculoplexopathy and has a clinical history with reduced dosing levels. RIBP occurrence rates were in the 60% range in the 1960s when 60 Gray treatments were applied in 5 Gray fractions; RIBP occurrences in the 2010s approach 1% with 50 Gray treatments applied in 3 Gy fractions.\n\nRILP occurrence rates are estimated at 0.3% to 1.3%, though the actual rate is likely higher. The soft tissue damage leading to RILP is more commonly seen with exposure levels over 50 Gy, though has occurred with as little as 30 Gy. A major step toward reducing RILP occurrences is by limiting the lumbosacral plexus' dosing level when treating pelvic malignancies, limiting the mean dose to < 45 Gy. One approach to reduced levels, the plexus' mapping with other organs at risk, was clinically evaluated during the 2010s.\n\nClinical evidence of the cause-and-effect of prevention and the management of radiation induced polyneuropathy is limited.\n\nIn 2011 the National Radiation Oncology Registry (NROR) was announced by the Radiation Oncology Institute (ROI). ROI and Massachusetts General Hospital would collect efficacy and side effect information (like radiation induced neuropathy) from people who had undergone radiotherapy. In 2013 the American Society for Radiation Oncology joined the effort.\n\nExperimental approaches of RILP treatment include:\n\n"}
{"id": "33293658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33293658", "title": "Ragnar Berg", "text": "Ragnar Berg\n\nRagnar Berg (1873-1956) was a Swedish-born biochemist and nutritionist who worked most of his adult life in Germany. He is best known for promoting the importance of acid-base balance and inorganic minerals like calcium in the diet; later in life he endorsed vegetarianism and ways to prolong the human life span. He also invented the alkaline dietary supplement Basica, which Volkmar Klopfer manufactured and marketed from 1925.\n\nRagnar Berg was the son of the respected Swedish historian and archaeologist Wilhelm Berg (1839-1915) and his first wife, Ulrika Charlotta Emerentia \"Emy\" Gumaelius (1846-1902). He married Ella Buscher in 1902, and they had two sons, Gunnar Wilhelm Emil (1907-1974) and Alf Ragnar Wilhelm (1912-1994).\n\nBerg was recruited by Karl Lingner to the Dresden Center for Dental Hygiene (\"Zentralstelle für Zahnhygiene\") in 1902, where he met dentist Carl Röse (1864–1947), his long-time experimental partner. From 1909 to 1921 Berg headed the physiology lab at the homeopathic sanatorium founded by Heinrich Lahmann at Weisser Hirsch near Dresden, researching vitamins, trace elements and the metabolism of minerals. A fire damaged the laboratory at the end of December 1914.\n\nIn 1921, he was dismissed from Lahmann's Sanatorium, since business had dried up during World War One, and its new directors wanted to focus on the more lucrative fields of psychoanalysis and gynecology. Berg, personally stung, felt that \"the directors did not value his scientific approach to nutrition.\" He continued conducting experiments on himself and analyzing foodstuffs from a home laboratory. From 1927 to 1932, he headed his own nutrition department at the Dresden-Friedrichstadt Hospital; in 1934 he was invited to the \"Rudolf Hess Hospital in Dresden-Johannstadt. However, his funding ran out two years later. Only during the 1940s was he able to get federal funds for his \"war-related\" work.\n\nIn March 1945, Berg and his wife, Ella, fled bombed-out Dresden for Berlin and then to Stockholm, Sweden. (Neither their house nor his lab in the hospital had been damaged, however.) They lived in his native Sweden until her death from a heart attack at the end of 1954. Berg was very lonely, his health deteriorated, and he spent many months in the hospital before moving to his son's home north of Hamburg, where he died a few months later of old age and metastatic prostate cancer. He was nearly blind by this time.\n\nBerg and Röse developed a theory of acid-base balance in the body that is affected by diet. They relied on the work of Ernst Leopold Salkowski, who published results in the 1870s that suggested inorganic acids could only be excreted by the kidneys if neutralized by inorganic bases. If the acids remained in the body, they would accumulate in areas of low blood flow (like joints), thereby obstructing normal physiological function. The model disease was gout, but Berg traced many other \"diseases of civilization\" to acid-base imbalance, including obesity, arthritis, and diabetes.\n\nBecause the body produces more acids than bases, concluded Berg, the best source of bases was the diet. If the diet was too acidic, then the body would break down proteins for the ammonia. This prevented the body from getting the full caloric and nitrogen value of the protein and produced abnormal intermediate metabolites. Moreover, a more basic diet reduced the need for protein. The following chart classifies foods according to Berg's theory and analyses.\n\nWhen Berg made little headway among medical and scientific experts, after World War I he turned his attention to popularizing his theory directly. He was quite popular in the 1920s and 1930s, especially in alternative medicine and vegetarian circles. In the 1930s and 1940s, he teamed up with Are Waerland to promote vegetarianism and ways to prolong life.\n\n"}
{"id": "922505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=922505", "title": "Receiver operating characteristic", "text": "Receiver operating characteristic\n\nA receiver operating characteristic curve, i.e., ROC curve, is a graphical plot that illustrates the diagnostic ability of a binary classifier system as its discrimination threshold is varied. \n\nThe ROC curve is created by plotting the true positive rate (TPR) against the false positive rate (FPR) at various threshold settings. The true-positive rate is also known as sensitivity, recall or \"probability of detection\" in machine learning. The false-positive rate is also known as the fall-out or \"probability of false alarm\" and can be calculated as (1 − specificity). It can also be thought of as a plot of the Power as a function of the Type I Error of the decision rule (when the performance is calculated from just a sample of the population, it can be thought of as estimators of these quantities). The ROC curve is thus the sensitivity as a function of fall-out. In general, if the probability distributions for both detection and false alarm are known, the ROC curve can be generated by plotting the cumulative distribution function (area under the probability distribution from formula_1 to the discrimination threshold) of the detection probability in the y-axis versus the cumulative distribution function of the false-alarm probability on the x-axis.\n\nROC analysis provides tools to select possibly optimal models and to discard suboptimal ones independently from (and prior to specifying) the cost context or the class distribution. ROC analysis is related in a direct and natural way to cost/benefit analysis of diagnostic decision making.\n\nThe ROC curve was first developed by electrical engineers and radar engineers during World War II for detecting enemy objects in battlefields and was soon introduced to psychology to account for perceptual detection of stimuli. ROC analysis since then has been used in medicine, radiology, biometrics, forecasting of natural hazards, meteorology, model performance assessment, and other areas for many decades and is increasingly used in machine learning and data mining research.\n\nThe ROC is also known as a relative operating characteristic curve, because it is a comparison of two operating characteristics (TPR and FPR) as the criterion changes.\n\nA classification model (classifier or diagnosis) is a mapping of instances between certain classes/groups. The classifier or diagnosis result can be a real value (continuous output), in which case the classifier boundary between classes must be determined by a threshold value (for instance, to determine whether a person has hypertension based on a blood pressure measure). Or it can be a discrete class label, indicating one of the classes.\n\nLet us consider a two-class prediction problem (binary classification), in which the outcomes are labeled either as positive (\"p\") or negative (\"n\"). There are four possible outcomes from a binary classifier. If the outcome from a prediction is \"p\" and the actual value is also \"p\", then it is called a \"true positive\" (TP); however if the actual value is \"n\" then it is said to be a \"false positive\" (FP). Conversely, a \"true negative\" (TN) has occurred when both the prediction outcome and the actual value are \"n\", and \"false negative\" (FN) is when the prediction outcome is \"n\" while the actual value is \"p\".\n\nTo get an appropriate example in a real-world problem, consider a diagnostic test that seeks to determine whether a person has a certain disease. A false positive in this case occurs when the person tests positive, but does not actually have the disease. A false negative, on the other hand, occurs when the person tests negative, suggesting they are healthy, when they actually do have the disease.\n\nLet us define an experiment from P positive instances and N negative instances for some condition. The four outcomes can be formulated in a 2×2 \"contingency table\" or \"confusion matrix\", as follows:\n\nThe contingency table can derive several evaluation \"metrics\" (see infobox). To draw an ROC curve, only the true positive rate (TPR) and false positive rate (FPR) are needed (as functions of some classifier parameter). The TPR defines how many correct positive results occur among all positive samples available during the test. FPR, on the other hand, defines how many incorrect positive results occur among all negative samples available during the test.\n\nAn ROC space is defined by FPR and TPR as \"x\" and \"y\" axes, respectively, which depicts relative trade-offs between true positive (benefits) and false positive (costs). Since TPR is equivalent to sensitivity and FPR is equal to 1 − specificity, the ROC graph is sometimes called the sensitivity vs (1 − specificity) plot. Each prediction result or instance of a confusion matrix represents one point in the ROC space.\n\nThe best possible prediction method would yield a point in the upper left corner or coordinate (0,1) of the ROC space, representing 100% sensitivity (no false negatives) and 100% specificity (no false positives). The (0,1) point is also called a \"perfect classification\". A random guess would give a point along a diagonal line (the so-called \"line of no-discrimination\") from the left bottom to the top right corners (regardless of the positive and negative base rates). An intuitive example of random guessing is a decision by flipping coins. As the size of the sample increases, a random classifier's ROC point tends towards the diagonal line. In the case of a balanced coin, it will tend to the point (0.5, 0.5).\n\nThe diagonal divides the ROC space. Points above the diagonal represent good classification results (better than random); points below the line represent bad results (worse than random). Note that the output of a consistently bad predictor could simply be inverted to obtain a good predictor.\n\nLet us look into four prediction results from 100 positive and 100 negative instances:\n\nPlots of the four results above in the ROC space are given in the figure. The result of method A clearly shows the best predictive power among A, B, and C. The result of B lies on the random guess line (the diagonal line), and it can be seen in the table that the accuracy of B is 50%. However, when C is mirrored across the center point (0.5,0.5), the resulting method C′ is even better than A. This mirrored method simply reverses the predictions of whatever method or test produced the C contingency table. Although the original C method has negative predictive power, simply reversing its decisions leads to a new predictive method C′ which has positive predictive power. When the C method predicts p or n, the C′ method would predict n or p, respectively. In this manner, the C′ test would perform the best. The closer a result from a contingency table is to the upper left corner, the better it predicts, but the distance from the random guess line in either direction is the best indicator of how much predictive power a method has. If the result is below the line (i.e. the method is worse than a random guess), all of the method's predictions must be reversed in order to utilize its power, thereby moving the result above the random guess line.\n\nIn binary classification, the class prediction for each instance is often made based on a continuous random variable formula_2, which is a \"score\" computed for the instance (e.g. the estimated probability in logistic regression). Given a threshold parameter formula_3, the instance is classified as \"positive\" if formula_4, and \"negative\" otherwise. formula_2 follows a probability density formula_6 if the instance actually belongs to class \"positive\", and formula_7 if otherwise. Therefore, the true positive rate is given by formula_8 and the false positive rate is given by formula_9. \nThe ROC curve plots parametrically TPR(T) versus FPR(T) with T as the varying parameter.\n\nFor example, imagine that the blood protein levels in diseased people and healthy people are normally distributed with means of 2 g/dL and 1 g/dL respectively. A medical test might measure the level of a certain protein in a blood sample and classify any number above a certain threshold as indicating disease. The experimenter can adjust the threshold (black vertical line in the figure), which will in turn change the false positive rate. Increasing the threshold would result in fewer false positives (and more false negatives), corresponding to a leftward movement on the curve. The actual shape of the curve is determined by how much overlap the two distributions have. These concepts are demonstrated in the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) Curves Applet.\n\nSometimes, the ROC is used to generate a summary statistic. Common versions are:\n\nHowever, any attempt to summarize the ROC curve into a single number loses information about the pattern of tradeoffs of the particular discriminator algorithm.\n\nWhen using normalized units, the area under the curve (often referred to as simply the AUC) is equal to the probability that a classifier will rank a randomly chosen positive instance higher than a randomly chosen negative one (assuming 'positive' ranks higher than 'negative'). This can be seen as follows: the area under the curve is given by (the integral boundaries are reversed as large T has\na lower value on the x-axis)\nwhere formula_11 is the score for a positive instance and formula_12 is the score for a negative instance, and formula_13 and formula_14 are probability densities as defined in previous section.\n\nIt can further be shown that the AUC is closely related to the Mann–Whitney U, which tests whether positives are ranked higher than negatives. It is also equivalent to the Wilcoxon test of ranks. The AUC is related to the Gini coefficient (formula_15) by the formula formula_16, where:\n\nIn this way, it is possible to calculate the AUC by using an average of a number of trapezoidal approximations.\n\nIt is also common to calculate the Area Under the ROC Convex Hull (ROC AUCH = ROCH AUC) as any point on the line segment between two prediction results can be achieved by randomly using one or other system with probabilities proportional to the relative length of the opposite component of the segment. It is also possible to invert concavities – just as in the figure the worse solution can be reflected to become a better solution; concavities can be reflected in any line segment, but this more extreme form of fusion is much more likely to overfit the data.\n\nThe machine learning community most often uses the ROC AUC statistic for model comparison. This practice has recently been questioned because AUC estimates are quite noisy and suffers from other problemns. . Nonetheless, the coherence of AUC as a measure of aggregated classification performance has been vindicated, in terms of a uniform rate distribution, and AUC has been linked to a number of other performance metrics such as the Brier score.\n\nAnother problem with ROC AUC is that reducing the ROC Curve to a single number ignores the fact that it is about the tradeoffs between the different systems or performance points plotted and not the performance of an individual system, as well as ignoring the possibility of concavity repair, so that related alternative measures such as Informedness or DeltaP are recommended. These measures are essentially equivalent to the Gini for a single prediction point with DeltaP' = Informedness = 2AUC-1, whilst DeltaP = Markedness represents the dual (viz. predicting the prediction from the real class) and their geometric mean is the Matthews correlation coefficient.\n\nWhereas ROC AUC varies between 0 and 1 — with an uninformative classifier yielding 0.5 — the alternative measures known as Informedness, Certainty and Gini Coefficient (in the single parameterization or single system case) all have the advantage that 0 represents chance performance whilst 1 represents perfect performance, and −1 represents the \"perverse\" case of full informedness always giving the wrong response. Bringing chance performance to 0 allows these alternative scales to be interpreted as Kappa statistics. Informedness has been shown to have desirable characteristics for Machine Learning versus other common definitions of Kappa such as Cohen Kappa and Fleiss Kappa.\n\nSometimes it can be more useful to look at a specific region of the ROC Curve rather than at the whole curve. It is possible to compute partial AUC. For example, one could focus on the region of the curve with low false positive rate, which is often of prime interest for population screening tests. Another common approach for classification problems in which P ≪ N (common in bioinformatics applications) is to use a logarithmic scale for the x-axis.\n\nThe Total Operating Characteristic (TOC) also characterizes diagnostic ability while revealing more information than the ROC. For each threshold, ROC reveals two ratios, TP/(TP + FN) and FP/(FP + TN). In other words, ROC reveals hits/(hits + misses)and false alarms/(false alarms + correct rejections). On the other hand, TOC shows the total information in the contingency table for each threshold. The TOC method reveals all of the information that the ROC method provides, plus additional important information that ROC does not reveal, i.e. the size of every entry in the contingency table for each threshold. TOC also provides the popular AUC of the ROC. \nThese figures are the TOC and ROC curves using the same data and thresholds.\nConsider the point that corresponds to a threshold of 74. The TOC curve shows the number of hits, which is 3, and hence the number of misses, which is 7. Additionally, the TOC curve shows that the number of false alarms is 4 and the number of correct rejections is 16. At any given point in the ROC curve, it is possible to glean values for the ratios of false alarms/(false alarms + correct rejections) and hits/(hits + misses). For example, at threshold 74, it is evident that the x coordinate is 0.3 and the y coordinate is 0.2. However, these two values are insufficient to construct all entries of the underlying two-by-two contingency table.\n\nAn alternative to the ROC curve is the detection error tradeoff (DET) graph, which plots the false negative rate (missed detections) vs. the false positive rate (false alarms) on non-linearly transformed x- and y-axes. The transformation function is the quantile function of the normal distribution, i.e., the inverse of the cumulative normal distribution. It is, in fact, the same transformation as zROC, below, except that the complement of the hit rate, the miss rate or false negative rate, is used. This alternative spends more graph area on the region of interest. Most of the ROC area is of little interest; one primarily cares about the region tight against the y-axis and the top left corner – which, because of using miss rate instead of its complement, the hit rate, is the lower left corner in a DET plot. Furthermore, DET graphs have the useful property of linearity and a linear threshold behavior for normal distributions. The DET plot is used extensively in the automatic speaker recognition community, where the name DET was first used. The analysis of the ROC performance in graphs with this warping of the axes was used by psychologists in perception studies halfway through the 20th century, where this was dubbed \"double probability paper\".\n\nIf a standard score is applied to the ROC curve, the curve will be transformed into a straight line. This z-score is based on a normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one. In memory strength theory, one must assume that the zROC is not only linear, but has a slope of 1.0. The normal distributions of targets (studied objects that the subjects need to recall) and lures (non studied objects that the subjects attempt to recall) is the factor causing the zROC to be linear.\n\nThe linearity of the zROC curve depends on the standard deviations of the target and lure strength distributions. If the standard deviations are equal, the slope will be 1.0. If the standard deviation of the target strength distribution is larger than the standard deviation of the lure strength distribution, then the slope will be smaller than 1.0. In most studies, it has been found that the zROC curve slopes constantly fall below 1, usually between 0.5 and 0.9. Many experiments yielded a zROC slope of 0.8. A slope of 0.8 implies that the variability of the target strength distribution is 25% larger than the variability of the lure strength distribution.\n\nAnother variable used is \"d<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" (d prime) (discussed above in \"Other measures\"), which can easily be expressed in terms of z-values. Although \"d\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> is a commonly used parameter, it must be recognized that it is only relevant when strictly adhering to the very strong assumptions of strength theory made above.\n\nThe z-score of an ROC curve is always linear, as assumed, except in special situations. The Yonelinas familiarity-recollection model is a two-dimensional account of recognition memory. Instead of the subject simply answering yes or no to a specific input, the subject gives the input a feeling of familiarity, which operates like the original ROC curve. What changes, though, is a parameter for Recollection (R). Recollection is assumed to be all-or-none, and it trumps familiarity. If there were no recollection component, zROC would have a predicted slope of 1. However, when adding the recollection component, the zROC curve will be concave up, with a decreased slope. This difference in shape and slope result from an added element of variability due to some items being recollected. Patients with anterograde amnesia are unable to recollect, so their Yonelinas zROC curve would have a slope close to 1.0.\n\nThe ROC curve was first used during World War II for the analysis of radar signals before it was employed in signal detection theory. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, the United States army began new research to increase the prediction of correctly detected Japanese aircraft from their radar signals. For these purposes they measured the ability of a radar receiver operator to make these important distinctions, which was called the Receiver Operating Characteristic.\n\nIn the 1950s, ROC curves were employed in psychophysics to assess human (and occasionally non-human animal) detection of weak signals. In medicine, ROC analysis has been extensively used in the evaluation of diagnostic tests. ROC curves are also used extensively in epidemiology and medical research and are frequently mentioned in conjunction with evidence-based medicine. In radiology, ROC analysis is a common technique to evaluate new radiology techniques. In the social sciences, ROC analysis is often called the ROC Accuracy Ratio, a common technique for judging the accuracy of default probability models.\nROC curves are widely used in laboratory medicine to assess the diagnostic accuracy of a test, to choose the optimal cut-off of a test and to compare diagnostic accuracy of several tests.\n\nROC curves also proved useful for the evaluation of machine learning techniques. The first application of ROC in machine learning was by Spackman who demonstrated the value of ROC curves in comparing and evaluating different classification algorithms.\n\nROC curves are also used in verification of forecasts in meteorology.\n\nThe extension of ROC curves for classification problems with more than two classes has always been cumbersome, as the degrees of freedom increase quadratically with the number of classes, and the ROC space has formula_18 dimensions, where formula_19 is the number of classes. Some approaches have been made for the particular case with three classes (three-way ROC). The calculation of the volume under the ROC surface (VUS) has been analyzed and studied as a performance metric for multi-class problems. However, because of the complexity of approximating the true VUS, some other approaches based on an extension of AUC are more popular as an evaluation metric.\n\nGiven the success of ROC curves for the assessment of classification models, the extension of ROC curves for other supervised tasks has also been investigated. Notable proposals for regression problems are the so-called regression error characteristic (REC) Curves and the Regression ROC (RROC) curves. In the latter, RROC curves become extremely similar to ROC curves for classification, with the notions of asymmetry, dominance and convex hull. Also, the area under RROC curves is proportional to the error variance of the regression model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "463443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463443", "title": "Rice burner", "text": "Rice burner\n\nRice burner is a pejorative, used as early as the 1960s, originally describing Japanese motorcycles, then later applied to Japanese cars, and eventually to Asian-made motorcycles and automobiles in general. The term most often refers to vehicles manufactured in East Asia, where rice is a staple food. Variations include rice rocket, referring most often to Japanese superbikes, rice machine, rice grinder or simply ricer.\n\nThe adjectival variation riced out describes the result of \"overmodifying a sports compact, usually with oversized or ill-matched exterior appointments\". Rice boy is a US derogatory term for the driver or builder of an import-car hot rod.\nThe terms may disparage cars which have been cheaply modified to present a deceptive or cosmetic appearance of high performance, without the capability.\n\nThe term is often defined as offensive or racist stereotyping. In some cases users of the term assert that it is not offensive or racist, or else treat the term as a humorous, mild insult rather than a racial slur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9863687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9863687", "title": "Richard Plain", "text": "Richard Plain\n\nRichard Plain (born 1939 or 1940) is a Canadian politician. Plain is the former mayor of St. Albert, Alberta, having served from 1974 to 1977 and again from 2001 to 2004. In February 2007, he announced that he would seek a third term as mayor in the 2007 election.\n\nBy profession, Plain is a health economist; he retired from the University of Alberta in 2001. In this capacity, he has been critical of several health care initiatives of the Alberta government headed by Ralph Klein. These have included Bill 11 (the 1997 government bill to expand the private sector's role in delivering publicly insured health services), the 2002 report by former Canadian Deputy Prime Minister Don Mazankowski, and the abortive \"third way\" plan to change the mix of public and private health care delivery.\n\nPlain was elected mayor in 1974, defeating incumbent Ray Gibbon in an election that was fought primarily on issues of development, with Plain favouring stricter limits than Gibbons. He was defeated three years later by Ronald Harvey. Plain blamed his defeat on Harvey's friendship with then-MLA Ernie Jamison, who also owned the St. Albert Gazette, and called his defeat \"a plague on our house\".\n\nBetween 1979 and 1981, as chair of the St. Albert Citizens Committee, Plain led the fight against a proposal from Edmonton to annex St. Albert, which he called \"one of the greatest things this community will ever see\".\n\nIn 2001, Plain, newly retired from academia, announced his intention to challenge incumbent mayor Paul Chalifoux. The ensuing election was fought largely on the issue of the West Regional Road, with Chalifoux favouring the recently proposed Ray Gibbon Drive alignment. Plain preferred the previously proposed alignment, which bypassed the developed portion of the city but crossed the Sturgeon River close to the mouth of Big Lake, and proposed a plebiscite on the subject. An aggressive public relations campaign by the Riel Park Business Association, which did not like the way the proposed road would pass through Riel Business Park, and a group calling itself S.E.N.S.I.B.L.E. Choice, attacked the alignment. Plain received the endorsement from S.E.N.S.I.B.L.E. Choice and he, along with the five aldermanic candidates the group endorsed, was elected.\n\nPlain's second term as mayor was dominated by four issues. Plain's favoured plebiscite on the road was rejected by a majority of Council in favour of proceeding immediately with the original alignment. Plain quickly fell into step with this majority view, and was criticized for it by many citizens who continued to favour the rejected Ray Gibbon Drive alignment. In addition, Plain opposed the agreement made by the Chalifoux Council to split tax revenues from land recently annexed from Sturgeon County with the County, claiming that St. Albert would require all of the tax revenues in order to service the land. This position put him at odds with Sturgeon County mayor Lawrence Kluthe, and a feud developed between the two. Third, Plain oversaw preliminary plans for the development of the multi-purpose leisure centre that would eventually become Servus Credit Union Place. Fourth and finally, Plain's Council brought in a bylaw prohibiting smoking in all places of business, including those open only to adults.\n\nChalifoux ran again in 2004 and, in an election dominated by a bitter dispute over how to deal with Sturgeon County, narrowly defeated Plain. Since his defeat, Plain has continued to comment publicly on issues including St. Albert's annexation of land from Sturgeon County and municipal budgeting, and has announced that he intends to run for mayor again in 2007.\n\nPlain was named St. Albert's 1981 Citizen of the Year.\n"}
{"id": "9559551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559551", "title": "Robert A. Baron", "text": "Robert A. Baron\n\nRobert A. Baron is Professor of Management and the Spears Chair of Entrepreneurship at Oklahoma State University's Spears School of Business. He studied psychology at City University of New York and received his Ph.D. from the University of Iowa in 1968. He is co-author of the textbook \"Social Psychology\" (13th edition), published by Allyn & Bacon, as well as numerous other books (e.g., \"Behavior in Organizations\", 9th edition) and journal articles. Dr. Baron has held faculty appointments at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Purdue, the University of Minnesota, Texas, South Carolina, Washington, Princeton University, and Oxford University.\n\n"}
{"id": "13935438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13935438", "title": "Rovenia M. Brock", "text": "Rovenia M. Brock\n\nDr. Rovenia M. Brock, also known as Dr. Ro, is an American nutritionist, lecturer, health reporter, entrepreneur, and author.\n\nDr. Ro is originally from Washington, D.C. and holds a Ph.D. in Nutritional Sciences, with an M.S. degree in Community Nutrition and Broadcast Journalism from Howard University, and a B.S. degree in Foods and Nutrition from Virginia State University.\n\nShe is most widely known as the host of \"Heart & Soul\", the first national health and fitness television show for African American women which previously aired on BET, and as Medical Correspondent for \"BET News\", Nutrition Contributor for ABC News' \"Lifetime Live\", and Contributing Nutrition Editor to \"Heart and Soul\" magazine. She is most recently known as the Nutrition Coach who helped \"The View\" Co-Host, Sherri Shepherd to lose 41 pounds. Voted one of the Nation's top five nutritionists by More Magazine, Dr. Ro has been featured on Good Morning America Health, The Dr. Oz Show and the CBS Early Show. Her most recent projects include: Dr. Ro's Fit Kidz, a new TV series for children ages 2–10. \"Dr. Ro's Fit Kidz\" is set to air on PBS in 2010.She was born in 1956.\n\nBrock is nutrition contributor to National Public Radio (NPR) and teamed up with McDonald's to launch the Fruit and Walnut Salad in 2005 and the Chicken Asian salad in 2006. Brock hosts \"Livin' Healthy with Dr. Ro\", which aired on TV One, and the PBS health and lifestyles series, \"Health Matters\" on WHUT-TV, a Howard University PBS affiliate. She formerly hosted \"Heads Up on Health\", a weekly radio segment of the WHUR-FM morning show in Washington, D.C. She has also authored a book, \"Dr. Ro's Ten Secrets To Livin' Healthy\" released under the Bantam Books imprint of Random House.\n\nBrock is currently Executive Producer, Creator and Host of \"Dr. Ro's Fit Kidz\", a new health and fitness children's series that began airing on PBS in 2010. She has hosted and produced a consumer affairs television program and daily radio show \"At Your Service with Dr. Rovenia Brock\". The show aired on PBS, three regional cable channels, and an NPR-member radio station serving the Washington Metropolitan area. Dr. Ro was previously Nutrition Contributor to NPR (National Public Radio) and NBC’s \"Morning Show\" in Washington, DC. Currently she frequently appears on Good Morning America Health, The View, the Dr. Oz Show, the CBS Early Show (see \"Dr. Ro Joins Early Gets Down 2 Size\"), and E! Entertainment. She has appeared on The Today Show, CNN, HLN, MSNBC, NPR, the Michael Baisden Show, \"The Queen Latifah Show\" \"The Tavis Smiley Show\". Now she is Nutrition Coach on Makeover Manor, and hosts Livin' Healthy with Dr. Ro both aired on TV-One. Dr. Ro has written an advice column and has been featured on WebMD and in several national publications including \"O Magazine\", \"Self\", \"Ebony\", and \"Essence\". She was recently profiled in the Spring-Summer 2009 issue of African-American Career World Magazine. Some of Dr. Ro's TV work can be found on YouTube and on her website at www.everythingro.com\n\nBrock is a spokesperson and health expert on several national tours, including the Ebony Family Reunion Tour, the Congressional Black Caucus Health Empowerment Tour, the Wells Fargo Enrich Yourself Women's Empowerment Tour, \"Total You...Mind, Body, and Spirit\" national tour, the \"Equal Serves Up a Spoonful\" media tour, and for Mazola Oils on a national 20 city tour. She speaks at health conventions, women’s empowerment seminars, corporate conferences, and entertainment industry functions throughout the U.S.\n\nIn late 2005, Brock introduced her first lifestyle boutique, \"everything Ro\", in Bethesda, Maryland, offering the Ro brand of women's active wear, Bath, Body, and Skin Care Therapy products. She is widely sought after for her sage nutrition advice, motivation, and inspiration offered through her Nutrition Coaching Program. Dr. Ro is the Nutrition Director of Dr. Riggins MASC (Medical Aesthetic Skincare) a skincare practice she co-owns with her husband and business partner, Dr. Murray Riggins, Jr., who is an Aesthetic Medicine Physician.\n\n\n\n\"Dr. Ro’s Ten Secrets To Livin’ Healthy (2004)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19764120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19764120", "title": "Sambhavna Trust", "text": "Sambhavna Trust\n\nThe Sambhavna Trust Clinic, or Bhopal People's Health and Documentation Clinic, is a charitable trust run by a group of doctors, scientists, writers and social workers who have been involved with various aspects of the Union Carbide disaster (Bhopal disaster) in Bhopal, India, ever since its occurrence in December 1984.\n\nThe Clinic in Bhopal, run by the Sambhavna Trust and initiated by Satinath Sarangi, opened its doors on 2 September 1996 as an independent, community based, non governmental medical initiative concerned with the long-term welfare of the survivors. It offers an innovative blend of modern and traditional therapies free of cost to the disaster affected victims.\n\nTaken from a poster found at the Clinic's entrance: \"Sambhavna is a Hindi word that literally means possibilities. If read as 'Sama' (equal) + 'Bhavna' (feelings), it means equal feelings or passion. [In this sense], we are characterizing both meanings of creating possibilities for the survivors of the world's worst industrial disaster.\"\n\nThe Sambhavna Clinic is located in the middle of communities that were most severely affected by the Bhopal Disaster as it is 400 meters south of the former Union Carbide plant. The Clinic is also in proximity to communities affected by contamination of the ground water through chemical wastes. Built on a 2-acre plot, along with the complex, the Clinic contains an herbal garden for Aryuvedic Care. With the principles of environmental sustainability, the facilities incorporate rain water harvesting, solar panels for energy, waste water recycling, non-toxic construction material, and other eco-sensitive features.\n\nPatients with a history of gas exposure from the disaster and those who have proved exposure to contaminated ground water are eligible for treatment at the Clinic free of charge. In addition, children born to gas affected parents before December 1986 are also registered for care at the Clinic since research conducted at Sambhavna has shown these children also exhibit symptoms of exposure related health problems. \nAs of 2006, the Sambhavna Trust Clinic remains the only institution to provide free health care to gas affected victims. Furthermore, the Clinic is the only health care provider in Bhopal to have a special classification for those who are suffering from ongoing contamination of the ground water and provide care to these persons at no cost as well.\n\nSambhavna's allopathic care team consists of general physicians, a pediatrician, a gynecologist, and a consultant in pathology. Their work is supported by an in-house pathology laboratory with facilities for biochemical, endocrinological, cytological, and microbiological investigation and diagnosis.\n\nCareful records are kept of each patient's ailments, treatment, and outcome in detail for an investigatory database to establish the efficacy of different treatment protocols. These records are stored both in paper and pen format and an in-house electronic health record system on over 15 networked computers; this system is developed, programmed, and maintained by staff within the Sambhavna Trust Clinic.\n\nIn conjunction with allopathic treatment, the Sambhavna Clinic provides Ayurveda care: a Hindu system of traditional medicine native to India. Two Ayurveda physicians and two Panchakarma therapists provide treatment through herbal medicines and through procedures of detoxification such as medicated oil massage, steam bath, medicinal oil stream, and medicinal enema.\n\nMore than 150 species of medicinal plants are grown on a 1-acre garden next to the Clinic building. Instead of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, Sambhavna utilizes vermicompost and bio pesticides for cultivation. More than eighty different kinds of Ayurvedic powders, oils, decoction, and pills are manufactured at the medicine making unit in Sambhavna using tools such as a pulverizer, pill press, and granulator. Significant features of the Ayurvedic health care at Sambhavna include predominant use of herbal drugs over mineral preparations (Rasa Shastra) and use of modern investigative facilities and techniques for objective assessment of efficacy.\n\nYoga therapy has been found to be particularly useful for treatment of common gas exposure related health problems including breathlessness, backache, joint pains, menstrual irregularities, anxiety, and insomnia. Some of the research efforts at Sambhavna focus on demonstrating the efficacy of yoga therapy in management of gas exposure symptoms. Four objective studies have been conducted on the positive effects of yoga therapy within the patient population at the Clinic.\n\nSambhavna community health workers fulfill many roles in the surrounding gas affected and water contaminated areas of Bhopal. First, the community health workers identify over a thousand patients in need of follow-up care at the Clinic each month and continue to visit these patients to monitor their health and adherence to treatment protocols.\nFurthermore, they educate communities about common health issues and their treatments and preventions, run comprehensive TB, malaria, anemia control programs, and also organize community based screenings for cervical cancer. In addition, the health workers also collect data on various health markers in the communities they serve for research and health monitoring purposes (see Documentation and Research).\nThe community health workers also have formed voluntary health committees in different neighborhoods around Bhopal. To run these committees, the health workers have inspired, trained, and equipped health volunteers from each community to carry out some biochemical investigations of blood and urine and also prepare slides for examination for the malaria parasite. Starting in 2008, the health workers began to train people to grow and use various medicinal plants in their own neighborhoods. Six small but flourishing herbal gardens have been established in two communities.\n\nSambhavna maintains what is probably the most comprehensive collection of original source material related to the Bhopal disaster. The Clinic's library materials include newspaper clippings from December 1984 onwards, medical and scientific research papers, legal transcripts, government publications, corporate documents, pamphlets and posters from local and international campaigns, as well as books on a variety of health related subjects. The library is frequently used by researchers, journalists, activists, survivors, and Sambhavna staff.\n\nResearch on the health consequences of exposure to toxic gases was terminated in 1994 by the Indian Council of Medical Research, and much of their findings remain unpublished to date. With limited staff and financial resources, Sambhavna has made significant contributions to the understanding of long-term health consequences of the disaster and the medical interventions which are effective in ameliorating these problems.\n\nOver 8000 families affected by the gas disaster and control families matched for socio-economic status are currently used to establish cohorts for further investigation of specific health problems. Over the course of the conducted research at Sambhavna, several studies have been published in national and international journals.\n\nSince 1996, Sambhavna has registered over 23,000 chronically ill patients from affected communities. Data collected from the field and patient record system is electronically catalogued daily, providing important information to guide future research and provide better care to survivors. Currently, Sambhavna has a networked system of informed consent, registration, and follow-up with continual updates of clinical data.\n\nThe Sambhavna Clinic is run by an 8-member board of trustees composed of scientists, doctors, editors, and activists who for many years have been involved with medical and other aspects of the disaster. A steering committee, elected by the staff, and two coordinators, look after the day-to-day running of the Clinic. Decision making, evaluation, planning, and review of clinic activities are based on equality, full participation, and consensus at the weekly staff meetings.\nSambhavna does not accept money from corporations, governments, or large funding agencies. All funds required to run the Sambhavna Trust Clinic come from individual donations and from the royalties of the book \"It Was Five Past Midnight in Bhopal\", by Dominique Lapierre and Javier Moro. A large portion of Sambhavna's funds come from over 15000 individuals in the UK who respond to advertisements placed by the Bhopal Medical Appeal in British newspapers. Contributions are from a variety of people from different backgrounds and socioeconomic levels. For example, the herbal medicine making facilities was built with funds donated by litter pickers at a music festival in the UK. Accounts of the Sambhavna Trust are audited annually and are open to public scrutiny.\n\nEach year, more than two dozen volunteers from India and abroad extend services to Sambhavna during their stay, ranging from one week to two months. Volunteers have come from Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, UK, USA, and other countries. These volunteers have offered a variety of services in their respective fields and applied their skills in medical work, social work, writing, research, gardening, photography, information systems, and more.\n\nTaken from a pamphlet at the Sambhavna Clinic, the \"No More Bhopal\" effort is described as follows:\n\"Through its involvement with the gas affected communities and with the global community, Sambhavna is working to stop the medical disaster in Bhopal and to prevent such tragedies from happening again. We organize health camps and workshops in the communities. We work with survivors' organizations fighting for better healthcare, and build links with doctors and researchers in Bhopal and all over the world. So far, we have organized three local, one national, and two international conferences in Bhopal and participated in several.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45261375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45261375", "title": "Sexophobia", "text": "Sexophobia\n\nSexophobia is the fear of sexual organs or sexual activities and, in a larger sense, the fear of sexuality. As such, it can be applied to the attitude of a person based on his or her educational background, personal experience and psyche, or to the general position of collective entities like religious groups, institutions or states.\n\nSexophobia in clinical talk has an effect on the way patients speak to their doctors, as it manifests itself in the communication strategies that are employed to speak about private health problems. In that sense, the use of neutral and veiled vocabulary by doctors can discourage patients to speak openly about their sexual issues. \n\nOtherwise, historian and sociologist Cindy Patton has identified sexophobia as one of the main trends that characterised the development of the second phase of the HIV epidemics in Great Britain, along with homophobia and germophobia.\n"}
{"id": "43704157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43704157", "title": "St. Vincent Charity Medical Center", "text": "St. Vincent Charity Medical Center\n\nSt. Vincent Charity Medical Center is a medical facility in Cleveland, Ohio. It was founded in 1865 under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland. It has been administered for much of its history by the Sisters of Charity of St. Augustine.\n\nIn 1851, the first Roman Catholic Bishop of Cleveland, Louis Amadeus Rappe, brought from his native France a small group of members of a monastery of Augustinian canonesses regular dedicated to nursing to care for the sick of his diocese. By August of the following year, they were able to open St. Joseph Hospital, the first in the city. When the senior canonesses returned to France the following month, Rappe established the two young women from the group who had chosen to remain as the new religious congregation of Sisters of Charity of St. Augustine, under the leadership of an American woman, Mother Ursula Bissonette. The Sisters continued to operate the hospital until 1856, when they closed it to focus on their work of caring for orphans.\n\nHaving no hospital, Cleveland found itself in a poor position to deal with the illness and large numbers of riverboat accidents resulting from its position as a hub to the American West. The outbreak of the American Civil War presented the additional dilemma of treating returning soldiers who had been wounded in battle, needing immediate medical attention and long term nursing care. After discussion between Rappe and Bissonette, along with Gustave E. Weber, a prominent retired Army surgeon, it was felt that the time was opportune to open another hospital. The bishop approached the City Council in May 1863, proposing that the city build a hospital to care for returning veterans, which the Sisters of Charity would staff. After vocal opposition to the proposal by the press, which urged a non-sectarian facility, the majority Protestant council rejected the offer.\n\nRappe then returned with a second proposal that he build the hospital and provide Religious Sisters to staff it, on the condition that the city provide adequate financial support. This proposal was accepted. The bishop then undertook the task of building the hospital. Land was acquired at a cost of $10,000, and the hospital was erected at a cost of $72,000, of which $42,000 came from public funds. St. Vincent Charity Hospital began operations on October 10, 1865.\n\nUnder Weber, who became the hospital's first chief of staff, it soon opened a medical school, which became a founding member of Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in 1881. A nursing school was opened to help staff the hospital's work in 1898, and two of the Sisters of Charity became among the first women in Ohio to be certified by the State Board of Pharmacy.\n\nIn 1952 a new building was opened for the hospital. This included Rosary Hall Solarium, dedicated to the care of alcoholics, a service pioneered through the work of Sister Ignatia, C.S.A., a co-worker with the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous.\n\nIn 2010, the hospital was renamed to the one it now has.\n\n"}
{"id": "55464542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55464542", "title": "Stamford and Rutland Hospital", "text": "Stamford and Rutland Hospital\n\nStamford and Rutland Hospital is an elective care hospital in Stamford, Lincolnshire administered by North West Anglia NHS Foundation Trust.\n\nThe hospital was built on a site previously occupied by Greyfriars, Stamford and donated by the Marquess of Exeter. It was funded by a bequest from the will of surgeon Henry Fryer, designed by John Peter Gandy and opened in 1828.\n\nBetween 1876 and 1879 the hospital was expanded with the addition of three fever ward blocks, under architect Edward Browning with input from surgeon Dr William Newman. The wards incorporated a number of features such as centralised ward interiors and glazed internal walling, and were cited as an exemplar of single-block planning for small hospitals, particular by Henry Burdett. The fever wards are Grade II listed and are a testament to how voluntary hospitals dealt with nineteenth century epidemics of contagious disease.\n\nA substantial redevelopment of the hospital was completed in July 2017, which included new imaging facilities, including a permanent MRI scanning suite, and cancer treatment facilities.\n\nThe hospital provides a minor injuries unit, large scale outpatient services and day-case surgery, with the largest pain management centre in the region. It also has a medicine for the elderly ward with 22 intermediate care beds. The trust's largest hospital, Peterborough City Hospital, provides the majority of emergency and inpatient services in the area; the two together thus provide a comprehensive suite of services in a predominantly \"hot\" and \"cold\" split. It was rated \"good\" by the Care Quality Commission in May 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "33031496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33031496", "title": "Vermont health care reform", "text": "Vermont health care reform\n\nIn 2011, the Vermont state government enacted a law functionally establishing the first state-level single-payer health care system in the United States. Green Mountain Care, established by the passage of H.202, creates a system in the state where Vermonters receive universal health care coverage as well as technological improvements to the existing system.\n\nOn December 17, 2014, Vermont abandoned its plan for universal health care, citing the taxes required of smaller businesses within the state.\n\nIn 2010, the State Legislature passed S 88 (which included provisions from Act 128), which enabled the state of Vermont to establish a commission to study different forms of health care delivery in the state. Dr. William Hsiao, a Harvard University professor of economics who was an advisor during Taiwan's transition to single-payer health care, was enlisted to design three possible options to reform Vermont's health care. Hsaio, along with Steven Kappel and Jonathan Gruber, presented the proposal to the legislature of Vermont on June 21, 2010.\n\nThe three options were laid out as follows:\n\n\nThe commission's proposal ultimately considered the third option to be \"the most politically and practically viable single payer system for Vermont,\" noting that Vermont, \"a small state with communitarian \nvalues,\" with its existing network of non-profit hospitals and , would be \"uniquely poised to pass universal health reform.\"\n\nFollowing the proposal, Democratic state senator Mark Larson introduced H 202 on February 8, 2011, titled Single-Payer and Unified Health System. The bill passed the House on March 24, 2011, with 94 votes in favor and 49 against. The bill then passed the Senate on April 26, 2011, with 21 votes in favor and 9 against. The conference report legislation passed the Senate on May 3, 2011 with 21 votes in favor and 9 opposed, and the House on May 4, 2011 with 94 votes in favor and 49 against. Governor Peter Shumlin signed the bill on May 26, 2011.\n\nThe signing of H. 202 led to the creation of Green Mountain Care, described by Kaiser Health News as \"a state-funded-and-managed insurance pool that would provide near-universal coverage to residents with the expectation that it would reduce health care spending.\" Governor Shumlin, in a blog post at \"Huffington Post\", described the plan as \"a single payer system\" that he believed \"will control health care costs, not just by cutting fees to doctors and hospitals, but by fundamentally changing the state's health care system.\" As of January 2013, Vermont was still working out the role of Green Mountain Care and the responsibilities of the bill, as well as how to fund the program. Dr. Hsiao, for example, had proposed an 11% payroll tax on employers, and the administration was required under Act 48 to provide a financing system in 2013. The state also had to align Green Mountain Care with provisions in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, passed by the United States federal government in 2010, which required the creation of a health care exchange in individual states. To launch fully, Green Mountain Care would have had to gain approval from the federal government to use federal health finances to fund the state program.\n\nAs of April 2014, Vermont had yet to craft a bill that would address the $2 billion in extra spending necessary to fund the single-payer system, and by the end of the year, the state abandoned their plan for universal health care, citing the taxes required of smaller businesses within the state.\n\nDr. Hsiao, in his proposal, noted that \"a two-thirds majority of Vermonters said that all Vermonters should be able to get the health care they need when they need it, regardless of their ability to pay even if this means that they would have to pay higher taxes and higher insurance premiums themselves.\" The bill was passed in the Vermont legislature on party line votes, with Democrats and Progressives in favor and Republicans against. The bill is considered the first single-payer bill to be passed on the state level, but private insurers can continue to operate in the state. Representative Larson has described Green Mountain Care's provisions as \"as close as we can get [to single-payer] at the state level.\"\n\nAccording to Leigh Tofferi, the director of government, public and community relations for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Vermont, the lack of initial specifics was causing \"anxiety\" to many providers. The Vermont Medical Society had no position on the bill or on single-payer in general. David Himmelstein, the founder of Physicians for a National Health Program, a single-payer advocacy group, was critical of the plan due to the ability of private insurers to operate in the state, arguing that the plan \"give[s] up a significant part of the administrative savings by doing that,\" but agreeing that Green Mountain Care \"lays the foundation\" for single-payer.\n\nIn the 2014 gubernatorial election, Governor Shumlin was heavily favored for re-election but only received a plurality of the vote, 46.4%, to Republican Scott Milne's 45.1%. The election was decided by the Vermont General Assembly on January 8, 2015; Shumlin defeated Milne by a vote of 110 to 69. \"The Burlington Free Press\" ascribed the result, in part, to voters' dissatisfaction with the progress the state had made in instituting single-payer health care.\n\nOne of the problems found since the abandonment of the Vermont Health Care initiatives is questionable billing from Jonathan Gruber, who according to CNBC, has come under more scrutiny because of the contract. According to a Vermont State report filed by Doug Hoffer, an invoice sent by Gruber to Vermont on December 30, 2014 for $40,000 increased the amount of scrutiny on the billing.\n\n"}
{"id": "142021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142021", "title": "WWT Martin Mere", "text": "WWT Martin Mere\n\nWWT Martin Mere is a wetland nature reserve managed by the Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust at Tarlscough, Burscough, Lancashire, England, on the West Lancashire Coastal Plain, from Ormskirk and from Southport (Merseyside). It is one of ten reserves managed by the charity, and it is designated an SSSI (Site of Special Scientific Interest), an SPA (Special Protection Area) and a Ramsar Site.\n\nThe name of the centre comes from the mere on the west side of the reserve which is ringed by 11 observation hides. On the east side of the reserve there are a number of pens providing habitats for birds from Africa, Australasia, North America, South America, Siberia, and Asia.\n\nMartin Mere has its own \"Domesday Book\", listing (for 2002) 517 species of plant, 287 species of fungus and 1,368 species of invertebrate. 284 species of bird have passed through the reserve, as well as 28 species of mammal and 19 species of fish.\n\nThis reserve is at its best in winter, attracting huge flocks of pink-footed geese and wigeon, many whooper swans and occasional rarer birds such as the snow goose.\n\nIt is also excellent for wintering birds of prey such as hen harrier, peregrine and merlin.\n\nThe BBC television programme Autumnwatch was broadcast live from Martin Mere in 2006 and 2007.\n\nThe first , known as Holcroft's Farm, were purchased in 1972 through local fundraising. The first curator of the site was Peter Gladstone, great grandson of William Ewart Gladstone. The site was opened to the public in 1975 by Sir Peter Scott.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54077276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54077276", "title": "William Clarence Braisted", "text": "William Clarence Braisted\n\nWilliam Clarence Braisted (9 October 1864 – 17 January 1941) was an American surgeon. He was born in Toledo, Ohio, died at home in West Chester, Pennsylvania, and is buried at Arlington National Cemetery. He graduated from the University of Michigan in 1883 and with Doctor of Medicine degree from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1886. He was the Surgeon General of the United States Navy from 1914 to 1920 and the president of the American Medical Association from 1920 to 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "22789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22789", "title": "World Organisation for Animal Health", "text": "World Organisation for Animal Health\n\nThe World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) is an intergovernmental organization coordinating, supporting and promoting animal disease control.\n\nThe main objective of the OIE is to control epizootic diseases and thus to prevent their spread. Other objectives consist of: transparency, scientific information, international solidarity, sanitary safety, the promotion of Veterinary Services, food safety and animal welfare. It is recognized as a reference organisation by the World Trade Organization (WTO) and in 2018 had a total of 182 member states. Its newest member state is Saint Lucia. The OIE maintains permanent relations with 45 other international and regional organisations and has Regional and sub-regional Offices on every continent. The OIE does not depend on the UN system; its autonomy is both institutional and financial and its activities are governed by its own constitutional texts. Since its first General Session held in Paris, the Office carries out its work under the authority of a Committee consisting of delegates of the contracting Governments.\n\nThe need to fight animal diseases at a global level led to the creation of the Office International des Epizooties through the international Agreement signed on January 25, 1924. In May 2003 the Office became the World Organisation for Animal Health but kept its historical acronym OIE. In January 2017, the outgoing Obama administration designated the OIE as an organization entitled to benefits of the International Organizations Immunities Act.\n\nThe OIE's headquarters are located in Paris, in the 17th arrondisment. It was in 1939 that the OIE moved to the aristocratic district of Parc Monceau, after having occupied premises since 1927 near the Champs de Mars and the Eiffel Tower, that had been provided by the French Higher Public Health Council. In May 1938, the OIE Members gave Dr Emmanuel Leclainche, founder and first General Director of the OIE, full powers to buy a townhouse in Paris, using the reserve fund. Dr Lecleinche chose the mansion from four properties selected by a Commission comprising the President of the OIE, H.C.L.E. Berger (Netherlands), the Vice-President, Carlo Bisanti (Italy), and the accountant, Gotlieb Flückiger (Switzerland). On 22 February 1939, the OIE, represented by E. Leclainche bought the mansion from the Marquise de Montebello, at a cost of 700,000 francs.\nThe 13th General Session of the OIE was held from May 30 to June 5, 1939 at 12 rue de Prony after rebuilding work had been completed. Due to the Second World War, the following General Session did not take place until 1946, from 2 to 5 October. Following their entry into Paris in June 1940, the German occupying forces temporarily closed and sealed the OIE headquarters. The efforts of the President, Gotlieb Flückiger, elected in 1939, resulted in its re-opening.\n12 rue de Prony was built in 1879, in the Neo-Renaissance style, by the celebrated architect Jean-Louis Pascal for the Austrian Baron, Jonas Königswater, a former banker and railway owner. A succession of major works to renovate and modernise the headquarters were undertaken by the Directors General elected after E.Leclainche: Gaston Ramon, René Vittoz, Louis Blajan, Jean Blancou and Bernard Vallat. Due to the headlong development of the organisation (tripling of the staff and the budget since 2001), additional premises have been rented at 14 rue de Prony since 2004. On 16 March 2009, the OIE purchased a large part of the building at 14 rue de Prony, adjoining its headquarters.\n\nTimely dissemination of information is crucial to containing outbreaks. The WAHID Interface provides access to all data held within OIE's new World Animal Health Information System (WAHIS). It replaces and significantly extends the former web interface named Handistatus II System.\n\nA comprehensive range of information is available from:\n\n"}
{"id": "44684311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44684311", "title": "Ángel Canaveris", "text": "Ángel Canaveris\n\nÁngel Canaveris (1847-1897) was an Argentine psychiatrist, who had a preponderant role in the beginnings of Uruguayan Medicine. He served in the Hospital Vilardebó and Hospital Maciel, both located in Montevideo.\n\nÁngel Canaveris was born in Italy, probably in the city of Genoa, on one of the trips made in Europe, by his parents Juan Manuel Canaveris and Carmen Gutiérrez. His mother was the daughter of Juan Gutiérrez Moreno, a distinguished doctor of medicine, born in Málaga, and Lorenza Moxica y López de Castilla, belonging to a Uruguayan family. Their paternal ancestors belonged to Piedmontese families, established in the areas of Turin, Cuneo, Liguria and some regions of the South of France.\n\nAfter completing his secondary education in the Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires, Canaveris entered as a student in the Facultad de Medicina of the University of Buenos Aires, where he graduated in 1875 with a thesis entitled \"Consideraciones sobre la lactancia\" (Considerations about breastfeeding). \n\nFor the year 1875, the recent graduate Dr. Canaveris was settled in Montevideo, city where his mother was a native. That same year, he was appointed by the Council of Public Hygiene, to serve in the Hospitals of Vilardebó and Maciel. He was one of the first psychiatrists in the Mental Hospital of Uruguay. In 1878, Canaveris was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of , director of the Asylum between 1877 and 1878. He also dedicated himself to teaching, serving in the , since its foundation.\nIn 1879 the Dr. Ángel Canaveris, had promoted a resolution where the foreman should monitor that nurses do not give mistreatment of psychiatric patients. Canaveris reported that for an efficient mental treatment the patients should be contained with good treatment by their caregivers. In 1888, he resigned as Head of the Mental Hospital of Montevideo, being replaced by Dr. Alejo Martínez.\n\n"}
{"id": "1096824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096824", "title": "ǃXu (god)", "text": "ǃXu (god)\n\nǃXu is possibly the main god of the San of southern Africa. He is considered a benevolent and omnipotent supreme being. He is also the sky god to whom the souls of the dead go. He is said to \"Summon the magicians to their profession, and gives them supernatural powers.\" The San add that he provides the rain and is invoked in illness, before hunting and before traveling.\n\nThe deity is also known as !Xuba, !Xo or !Xoba.\n\nXu, a crater on Rhea, the second largest moon of Saturn, is named after ǃXu.\n"}
