{"id": "3319001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3319001", "title": "Advanced process control", "text": "Advanced process control\n\nIn control theory Advanced process control (APC) refers to a broad range of techniques and technologies implemented within industrial process control systems. Advanced process controls are usually deployed optionally and in addition to \"basic\" process controls. Basic process controls are designed and built with the process itself, to facilitate basic operation, control and automation requirements. Advanced process controls are typically added subsequently, often over the course of many years, to address particular performance or economic improvement opportunities in the process.\n\nProcess control (basic and advanced) normally implies the process industries, which includes chemicals, petrochemicals, oil and mineral refining, food processing, pharmaceuticals, power generation, etc. These industries are characterized by continuous processes and fluid processing, as opposed to discrete parts manufacturing, such as automobile and electronics manufacturing. The term process automation is essentially synonymous with process control.\n\nProcess controls (basic as well as advanced) are implemented within the process control system, which may mean a distributed control system (DCS), programmable logic controller (PLC), and/or a supervisory control computer. DCSs and PLCs are typically industrially hardened and fault-tolerant. Supervisory control computers are often not hardened or fault-tolerant, but they bring a higher level of computational capability to the control system, to host valuable, but not critical, advanced control applications. Advanced controls may reside in either the DCS or the supervisory computer, depending on the application. Basic controls reside in the DCS and its subsystems, including PLCs.\n\nFollowing is a list of well known types of advanced process control:\n\n\nThe following technologies are related to APC and in some contexts can be considered part of APC, but are generally separate technologies having their own (or in need of their own) Wiki articles.\n\n\nThose responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of APC applications are often referred to as APC Engineers or Control Application Engineers. Usually their education is dependent upon the field of specialization. For example, in the process industries many APC Engineers have a chemical engineering background, combining process control and chemical processing expertise.\n\nMost large operating facilities, such as oil refineries, employ a number of control system specialists and professionals, ranging from field instrumentation, regulatory control system (DCS and PLC), advanced process control, and control system network and security. Depending on facility size and circumstances, these personnel may have responsibilities across multiple areas, or be dedicated to each area. There are also many process control service companies that can be hired for support and services in each area.\n\nThe use of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning techniques in Process Control is also considered as an advanced process control approach in which intelligence is used to further optimize operational parameters.\n\nOperations and Logics in process control systems in oil and gas and for decades are based only on physics equations that dictates parameters along with operators’ interactions based on experience and operating manuals. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning algorithms can look into the dynamic operational conditions, analyse them and suggest optimized parameters that can either directly tune logic parameters or give suggestion to operators. Interventions by such intelligent models leads to optimization in cost, production and safety. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23903477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23903477", "title": "Assassin's Creed", "text": "Assassin's Creed\n\nAssassin's Creed is an action-adventure stealth video game franchise created by Patrice Désilets, Jade Raymond and Corey May, developed and published by Ubisoft using the game engine Anvil Next. It depicts in the centuries-old struggle, now and then, between the Assassins, who fight for peace with free will, and the Templars, who desire peace through control. The series features historical fiction, science fiction and characters, intertwined with real-world historical events and figures. For the majority of time players would control an Assassin in the past history, while they also play as Desmond Miles or an Assassin Initiate in the present day, who hunt down their Templar targets.\n\nThe video game series took inspiration from the novel \"Alamut\" by the Slovenian writer Vladimir Bartol, while building upon concepts from the \"Prince of Persia\" series. It begins with the self-titled game in 2007, and has featured eleven main games. The most recent released game is 2018's \"Assassin's Creed Odyssey\". \n\nA new story and time period are introduced in each entry, and gameplay elements evolve from the previous one. There are three story arcs in the series. For the first five main games, the framing story is set in 2012 and features series protagonist Desmond Miles who uses a machine called the Animus and relives the memories of his ancestors to find a way to avert the 2012 apocalypse. In games till Assassin's Creed Syndicate, Abstergo employees and Assassin initiates recorded genetic memories using the Helix software, helping the Templars and Assassins find new Pieces of Eden in the modern world. The latest two games, Assassin's Creed Origins and Assassin's Creed Odyssey follow ex-Abstergo employee Layla Hassan as she is recruited into the Assassin's Creed.\n\nMain games of \"Assassin's Creed\" are set in an open world and presented from the third-person perspective where the protagonists take down targets using their combat and stealth skills with the exploitation of the environment. Freedom of exploration is given to the player the historical settings to finish main and side quests. Apart from single-player missions, some games also provide competitive and cooperative multiplayer gameplay. While main games are produced for major consoles and desktop platforms, multiple spin-off games were also released in accompany for consoles, mobiles, and handhelds platforms.\n\nThe main games in the \"Assassin's Creed\" video game series have received generally positive reviews for their ambition in visuals, game design, and narratives, with criticism towards the yearly release cycle and frequent bugs. The spin-off games received mixed to positive reviews. The video game series has received multiple awards and nominations, including Game of the Year awards. It is also commercially successful, selling over 100 million copies , becoming Ubisoft's best-selling franchise and one of the highest selling video game franchises of all time. \"Assassin's Creed\" was adapted by its self-titled film, which received negative reviews. A book series of art books, encyclopedias, comics, novelizations, and novels is also published. All of the media take place within the same continuity as the main video game series.\n\nThe \"Assassin's Creed\" series originated out of ideas for a sequel for \"\", a title developed by Ubisoft Montreal and published by Ubisoft in 2003. \"The Sands of Time\" was a full 3D adaption for the PlayStation 2 of the original \"Prince of Persia\" games, and included a number of parkour moves and combat. \"The Sands of Time\" was a critical and financial success, leading Ubisoft to request Ubisoft Montreal to develop a sequel, aiming for the next console generation. The Ubisoft Montreal team decided on taking the gameplay from \"The Sands of Time\" into a open world approach, taking advantage of the improved processing power to render larger spaces and crowds. Narratively, the team wanted to move away from the Prince simply being someone next in line for the throne but to have to work for it; combined with research into secret societies led them to focus on the Assassins, heavily borrowing from the novel \"Alamut\".\n\nThey developed a narrative where the player would control an Assassin that served as a bodyguard for a non-playable Prince, leading them to call this game \"Prince of Persia: Assassin\". Ubisoft was not happy with a \"Prince of Persia\" game without the Prince as the playable character, but this led to the marketing division to suggest the name \"Assassin's Creed\", playing off the creed of the Assassins, \"nothing is true; everything is permitted\". Ubisoft Montreal ran with this in creating a wholly new intellectual property, eliminating the Prince and creating the conflict between the Assassins and Templar Knights. Further, in postulating what other assassinations they could account for throughout human history, they came onto the idea of genetic memory and created the \"Animus\" device and modern storyline elements, which further allowed them to explain certain facets of gameplay, such as accounting when the player fails a mission, in the same way they had done in \"The Sands of Time\".\n\nFollowing release of the first \"Assassin's Creed\" in 2007, Ubisoft Montreal and other Ubisoft studios use the series to present games from various historical periods, striving for historical accuracy while conceding some elements for gameplay.\n\nThe \"Assassin's Creed\" games primarily revolve around the rivalry between two ancient secret societies — the Assassins and the Knights Templar — and their indirect relation to an ancient species pre-dating humanity, referred to within the games as \"those who came before\", whose society, along with much of Earth's biosphere, was destroyed by a massive solar storm thousands of years before the games. The games' real-world chronological setting begins in the year 2012, but most of the gameplay is in historical settings.\n\nWithin the franchise, Abstergo Industries is a mega-corporation conglomerate with multiple branches, secretly run by modern Knights Templar. The company is the present-day main antagonist of the franchise. Abstergo secretly created the \"Animus\", a device that allows its users to \"re-live\" and experience the memories of their genetic ancestors within their bloodline through a virtual simulation. Overexposure to the animus causes the \"bleeding effect\", which results in giving the user skills and abilities of his ancestors, but is also dangerous for the user as it can damage their mind, causing symptoms such as dementia, insanity, dissociative identity disorder or brain damage. Abstergo is seeking to discover the location of several historical artifacts, known as the \"Pieces of Eden\". Such artifacts hold great power, and are capable of controlling free will. Abstergo seeks to use them to remove free will and bring humanity into one single unified group, while the Assassins oppose them. In order to find the Pieces of Eden, Abstergo is abducting people whose ancestors are suspected to have had historically confirmed or suspected interactions with such devices, forcing the kidnapped person into the Animus and searching for clues on their ancestors' memories within the Animus.\n\nDesmond Miles is a bartender who is a descendant of several lines of prominent Assassins; though raised as an Assassin, he left his nomadic family to seek out a more common lifestyle. He is initially kidnapped by Abstergo, which is aware of his ancestral lineage. Desmond is forced into the Animus and is revealed to be subject 17; many of the sixteen previous subjects died as a result of Animus over-exposure.\n\nDesmond is later rescued by a small team of modern-day Assassins and agrees to work with them, continuing to experience the memories of his ancestors to discover the locations of additional Pieces of Eden so they can be recovered before Abstergo can do so. From the bleeding effect, Desmond gains some of the Assassin skills of his predecessors at the cost of living with multiple sets of memories and personalities in his mind.\n\nWithin the Animus, Desmond explores the memories of a number of Assassins, including Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad, an initially disgraced Assassin working to redeem himself during the Third Crusade; Ezio Auditore da Firenze, an Assassin in Italy during the late 15th and early 16th centuries of the Italian Renaissance; and , otherwise known as Connor, a half-Mohawk, half-British Assassin during the American Revolution.\n\nThroughout these events, Desmond learns of allusions to the prophetic end of the world in 2012 from a former Animus test subject, Subject 16; the event turns out to be a repeat of the disaster which wiped out the ancient civilization, and he finds out that his memories hold the key to Earth's surviving a second solar storm. During his experiences, Desmond is aided by holographic projections of three of the ancient race's rulers: Jupiter, Minerva, and Juno.\n\nAfter Desmond dies to ensure Earth's survival, his memories, which have survived through genetic samples of his DNA, are accessed by Abstergo, which hires a new subject to enter the Animus. The new subject relives the memories of Edward Kenway (grandfather of Ratohnhaké:ton, otherwise known as Connor Kenway), a privateer-turned-pirate during the Golden Age of Piracy.\n\nWhile the games are often presented through protagonist Desmond Miles, the bulk of the game is played as Desmond experiences the memories of his ancestors through an advanced device called the Animus. This provides a means of a diegetic interface, showing Desmond's ancestor's health, equipment, goals, and other features as part of the Animus interface. The Animus is based on the player controlling the assassin to maintain the synchronization between Desmond and his ancestor's memories. Performing actions that go against the Assassin's way or dying breaks the synchronization, effectively requiring the player to restart at a previous checkpoint. Furthermore, the player cannot explore outside areas that the assassin has not experienced yet. There are also abnormalities within the Animus from previous users of the device.\n\nWhile playing as the Assassin characters, the games are generally presented from a third-person perspective in an open world environment, focusing on stealth and parkour. The games use a mission structure to follow the main story, generally assigning the player to complete an assassination of public figureheads or a covert mission. Alternatively, several side missions are available, such as mapping out the expansive cities from a high perch followed by performing a \"leap of faith\" into a haystack below, collecting treasures hidden across the cities, exploring ruins for relics, building a brotherhood of assassins to perform other tasks, or funding the rebuilding of a city through purchasing and upgrading of shops and other features. At times, the player is in direct control of Desmond, who by nature of the Animus use has learned Assassin techniques through the bleeding effect, as well as their genetic ability of Eagle Vision, which separates friend, foe and assassination targets by illuminating people in different colors. Through the Animus interface, the player can go back to retry any past mission already completed; for example, in \"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood\", the player achieves better synchronization results by performing the mission in a specific manner such as by only killing the mission's target.\n\nThe games use the concept of \"active\" versus \"passive\" moves, with \"active\" moves, such as running, climbing the sides of buildings, or jumping between rooftops, more likely to alert the attention of nearby guards. When the guards become alerted, the player must either fight them or break their line of sight and locate a hiding place, such as a haystack or a well, and wait until the guards' alert is reduced. The combat system allows for a number of unique weapons, armor, and moves, including the use of a hidden blade set in a bracer on the Assassin's arm, and which also can be used to quietly assassinate targets.\n\nDesmond Miles is captured by Abstergo and forced to use a machine called the Animus to explore Altaïr ibn-La'Ahad's memories during the time of the Third Crusade. Desmond begins to witness events after Altaïr breaks all three tenets of the Assassin Brotherhood while attempting to stop Robert de Sablé from taking a Piece of Eden. Al Mualim, the Brotherhood's leader, demotes Altaïr to Novice and tasks him with assassinating the nine Knights Templars, including de Sablé, to regain his former status. Altaïr's quest eventually leads him to face de Sablé in the presence of King Richard I of England warning the King of de Sablé's plot to kill him. Altaïr defeats de Sablé, but with his last words, de Sablé reveals that there were ten Templars, the last being Al Mualim, who now holds the Piece of Eden. Altaïr returns to face Al Mualim and struggles to fight through illusions created by the Piece, but eventually kills Al Mualim. When Altaïr recovers the piece, he and those watching the Animus view a holographic map showing where other artifacts are located across the globe. Desmond is pulled from the Animus, and was going to be killed, but his life is spared by Lucy Stillman, an Assassin working as a mole within Abstergo, as she claims they might need to further examine his memories later. He comes to learn that a former test subject had left messages only Desmond can see, foretelling the end of the world in 2012.\n\nThe first \"Assassin's Creed\" introduced core elements that remained in the rest of the game series. The game creates fictionalized, historical versions of Masyaf (the Brotherhood's location), Jerusalem, Acre and Damascus, and incorporates a number of documented historical figures into the story. Other core elements include the virtualized Animus system, free running, climbing, stealth, parkour, and the initial formulation of the combat system. The game requires the player to complete a number of side quests before they are able to obtain an assassin quest from a local Brotherhood guidemaster in each city, but this side quest prerequisite was abandoned in future games.\n\nLucy returns and breaks Desmond out of Abstergo, taking him to an Assassin safehouse to work alongside Shaun, a historian, and Rebecca, their technical support. Using an improved version of the Animus, Desmond takes witness to Ezio Auditore da Firenze, a young nobleman from the late 15th century in Florence, shortly before the execution of Ezio's father and brothers by order of a corrupt official working for the Templars. He, his mother, and sister take to hiding at the Monteriggioni villa owned by his uncle Mario, who helps to train Ezio in the ways of an Assassin. Ezio and Mario discover that Rodrigo Borgia is the figurehead of a number of Templars all who were accomplices in the execution of his family, and with help of allies like Leonardo da Vinci, methodically assassinate the lower-ranked Templars, while learning that Borgia has acquired a Piece of Eden called the Apple. Eventually, Ezio corners Borgia, who hands over the Piece and flees; Ezio is inducted into the ranks of the Brotherhood and believed to be a prophet based on their codex. A decade later, the Brotherhood learns that Borgia has since become Pope Alexander VI, using the Church's influence to strengthen the Templars. Ezio invades Vatican City and confronts Borgia, discovering that the Papal staff is also a Piece of Eden. Defeating Borgia but sparing his life, Ezio uses both the Apple and the Papal staff to reveal a chamber of ancient technology. Inside, he is addressed by a hologram of a humanoid female that calls herself Minerva who speaks directly to Desmond through Ezio. Minerva explains how her society had pre-dated humanity's, but a great disaster nearly wiped them out, and warns that another event is due to occur soon, putting the fate of humanity in Desmond's hands. Upon this discovery, Desmond and his allies find the safehouse has been compromised by Abstergo and flee.\n\nSimilar to the first game, \"Assassin's Creed II\" takes place in historical recreations of Venice, Florence, Forlì, San Gimignano, and the Tuscan countryside, and incorporates events during that period as part of the story. Missions are divided into main story missions, themselves divided into memory sequences reflecting points in Ezio's life, and side missions which can be accomplished at any time; this approach to mission structure remains consistent in the other games in the series. The Monteriggioni villa provides several functions which can be expanded on by paying money for upgrades of surrounding buildings, or by purchasing artwork, weapons, and armor for the villa; in turn, the villa will generate wealth for the player at a rate influenced by the upgrades and acquisition of these items. Additional quests involve locating secret Assassin seals, and finding hidden marks left by \"Subject 16\", a former Animus user, that hint at the nature of Minerva's society.\n\nDesmond and his allies retreat to the ruins of the Monteriggioni villa, and Desmond reenters the Animus to continue Ezio's memories, specifically to identify the location of the Apple. After facing Rodrigo Borgia, Ezio returned to Monteriggioni, but the villa is soon attacked by forces under the command of Cesare Borgia, Rodrigo's son. Mario is killed and the Apple is stolen. Ezio vows revenge by helping to free the people of Rome from the Borgia family. As Ezio works covertly to turn the city against the Borgias, he gains followers that want to join his cause, and Ezio trains them in the way of the Assassins. In an attempt to assassinate Cesare and Rodrigo at the Castel Sant'Angelo, Ezio instead witnesses Cesare forcing his father to eat a poisoned apple that Rodrigo had prepared to kill his son. Ezio chases down Cesare and eventually captures him and recovers the Apple. Cesare is taken to prison in Viana, Spain but manages to escape with help of his allies. The Assassins lead the fight against Cesare and the remaining loyal Borgia troops, and eventually Ezio throws Cesare from the castle walls, killing him. With no perceived further threats, Ezio takes to hide the Apple under the Colosseum. In the present, Desmond is able to navigate through the underground chambers beneath the Colosseum to locate the Apple. As he picks it up, Desmond is witness to another hologram figure, calling herself Juno, and who controls Desmond to stab Lucy (because Lucy has defected to the Templars) before he falls into a coma.\n\n\"Brotherhood\" shares many of the same features as the previous game though it takes place primarily in Rome. Similar to the villa, the player is able to spend money to buy and upgrade shops and other facilities throughout the city as to increase revenue they can collect from it; however, the player will be required to destroy Borgia towers that control various sections of the city before they can do so. The Brotherhood of Assassins is introduced, by which, after saving citizens from certain events, the player can invite these citizens as Assassins; they can then be dispatched to remote locations across Europe to gain experience and money, or can be called in to help the player directly in a mission. For the first time in the series, the game features online multiplayer. Players play as Abstergo employees, who, through the use of the Animus, take on the genetic memories of Renaissance Templars in various game modes. It was the last game to feature \"Assassin's Creed\" creator Patrice Désilets, as the creative director of the series.\n\nWithin the computerized \"core\" of the Animus, Subject 16 (Clay Kaczmarek) explains to a comatose Desmond that his mind must achieve full synchronization with Altaïr and Ezio, or he will fall into dementia. Desmond sees Ezio's memories, years after \"Brotherhood\", Ezio researches the Assassins' history and travels to Masyaf to locate Altaïr's library, rumored to hold great power within. The Templars also seek to open this library, but it is locked by five keys, hidden in the Ottoman-held Constantinople. Ezio finds the city in a feud between brothers Selim and Ahmet vying for the Sultanate. Ezio is aided by Sofia Sartor; the two fall in love. Eventually, Ahmet reveals himself to be a Templar, and is killed by Selim after he battles with Ezio. Ezio uses the keys to witness Altaïr's memories before and after Al Mualim's death, which show the death of Altaïr's wife and youngest son in the midst of a coup d'etat within the Assassins. Altair exiles himself for twenty years, eventually returning to Masyaf to kill the usurper and retake control. Altaïr inscribes his memories in the keys and asks his friend Niccolò Polo to hide them. Afterwards, Ezio and Sofia go to Masyaf and open the library to find Altaïr's corpse and a Piece of Eden. Ezio leaves it and his assassin tools, and tells Desmond, understanding now of his role as a messenger to him. A holographic being calling himself Jupiter explains to Desmond (through Ezio) how his society perished as a result of a massive solar flare apocalypse, and that the key to stop the 2012 solar flare lies in the first civilization's technology commanded by vaults linked to a central vault in New York. Within the Animus, Clay sacrifices himself to allow Desmond to wake up from his coma, his memories complete. Along with Shaun, Rebecca, and his father William, Desmond heads to New York to save humanity.\n\nOriginally \"Revelations\" was announced as \"Assassin's Creed: Lost Legacy\", and conceptualized as a Nintendo 3DS title focusing on Ezio traveling to Masyaf. However, on July 15, 2011, it was announced as cancelled. The reason behind such \"cancellation\" was that Ubisoft had decided to expand the idea further, cancel the 3DS development and fully shift all development duties towards PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and PC to release the game as a full-fledged main installment of the franchise. The original plot remained, and evolved into the plot seen in the final game, which became \"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\". Included were many new systems and additional weapons such as bomb-crafting, allowing the player to create explosive, distraction and tactical bombs, using materials found throughout the world and on Assassin's Guild missions. The hookblade was also introduced, which can be used in free-running (to travel along zip wires and climb more easily) and in combat (to manipulate enemies). Eagle Vision was upgraded into the Eagle Sense, allowing Ezio to not only see where his enemies and targets are but also, where they have been and where they are moving to. As the player progresses through, Ezio can train new recruits to defend \"dens\" (Assassin HQs) and an upgraded Assassin's missions section called \"Mediterranean Defense\" in which the player works to strip control of various cities from Templar hands. The multiplayer mode returned in \"Revelations\", with more characters, modes, and maps, and by advancing up through levels of experience, the player learns more about Abstergo's history.\n\nDesmond and his allies arrive at the Temple entrance in a cave in the New York area on October 31, 2012, and open its door using the Apple of Eden, discovering a larger chamber of Precursor technology behind it, including another door requiring a key. Desmond suddenly falls into a fugue state, and is put into the Animus.\n\nIn the Animus, he experiences the memories of Haytham Kenway, who is later revealed as a Templar British agent, who had gone to the American Colonies with a stolen medallion, and, with Templar allies including Charles Lee, gained the Mohawk people's trust as the means to find a Temple's location, but to his annoyance, the medallion did not open the Temple for him. The remainder of the game shifts protagonist, to the memories of Haytham's son , whose heritage is half Mohawk. As a young boy, he witnesses Lee and his troops set fire to his village, killing his mother; years later, he is shown a Piece of Eden, through which Juno speaks to him and instructs him to get training from the retired Assassin, Achilles Davenport, who later inducts him into the order and nicknames him Connor (in memory of his dead son, deceased in the American Revolution). Through him, Connor meets Patriots in the Revolution, helping them to stop several Templar plans, including an assassination attempt against George Washington. Between memories, Desmond helps his allies to recover power sources to power the Temple scattered about the globe, including one held by Abstergo.\n\nConnor eventually faces his father, who offers a ceasefire, as he is also after Benjamin Church for usurping his authority. They team up to investigate, Kenway warns Connor about the Patriots, seeking to remove Connor's people from their lands due to fear of an allegiance against the British. Connor eventually hunts and kills Lee, takes the medallion and ends the Templar threat. He is despondent to find his tribe's village abandoned save for the Piece of Eden; through it, Juno tells him to hide the amulet. Desmond wakes up on December 21, and with his allies finds the buried medallion, key to the inner Temple door, behind is a control sphere capable of stopping the solar flare. Juno appears and encourages Desmond to touch it, but Minerva appears and warns him not to, as it would release Juno as an entity that would protect against the solar flare, but would also be a threat to mankind's future. Juno says Minerva would rather have most of humanity wiped out, and Desmond survive to be a religious figure to lead the survivors, ultimately leading into conflict. Desmond opts to release Juno, believing humanity will have a better chance fighting Juno. The energy from the control sphere, protects Earth from the solar flare, but kills Desmond. Juno tells Desmond's corpse that his work is now done, and now it is time for her to work.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed III\" is structured similarly to the previous games, with missions taking place on an open-world map based on Colonial Boston and New York, and offers a large wilderness area, the Frontier and in the Davenport Homestead, where the player can hunt animals for materials, which then subsequently can be used to construct goods to be traded and sold throughout the colonies. Naval battles were introduced, wherein the player must steer a warship named \"Aquila\" in dangerous waters and perform ship-to-ship combat with cannons and mounted guns. In Assassin's Creed III there are a large assortment of side missions to play and many different outfits to purchase as the player progresses through the game. The modern-day aspects of the story were also significantly expanded, and featured missions taking place in, among other locations, Manhattan, Rome and Brazil.\n\nSamples taken from Desmond Miles' body in the moments after his death have enabled Abstergo Industries to continue to explore his genetic memories using the Animus' newfound cloud computing abilities. The unnamed player character is hired by Abstergo's entertainment division to sift through the memories of Edward Kenway, an eighteenth-century pirate and the grandfather of Connor. Ostensibly, this is to gather material for an Animus-powered interactive video game, but in reality, Abstergo and the Templars are searching for the Observatory, a Precursor structure that allows the user to see through the eyes of a subject. As Kenway, the player must unravel a conspiracy between high-ranking Templars to manipulate the British, Spanish and French empires into locating the Sage – later identified as Bartholomew Roberts – who is the only man who can lead them to the Observatory.\n\nIn the present day, the player is contacted by John, Abstergo Entertainment's information technology manager. John convinces the player that his employer knows more than they are telling, and encourages them to investigate in more detail. He arranges for the player to access the Animus' core, at which point Juno materialises into an incorporeal form. She reveals that although it was necessary to open her temple to avert disaster, the world was not ready for her, and she is unable to affect it or possess the player character as her agents intended. John is unmasked as the reincarnated form of the Sage and attempts to murder the player to cover up the failed attempt at resurrecting Juno, but is killed by Abstergo's security before he can do so. As Roberts, the Sage admits to Kenway that he owes no allegiance to the Assassins or the Templars and instead uses whoever he thinks represents his best chance of achieving his ends.\n\nThe plot follows Assassin-turned-Templar, Shay Patrick Cormac, and is set during the Seven Years' War across various locations in northeastern North America and the North Atlantic. It is meant to \"fill the gaps\" of the story between \"III\" and \"Black Flag\" and has \"a crucial link to the Kenway saga\", as well as connecting to \"Unity\". Haytham Kenway from \"III\" and Adéwalé from \"Black Flag\" make appearances.\n\nBy March 2014, a game titled or code-named \"\"Comet\",\" was revealed to be in development, for release on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. By the end of the month, additional reports indicated that \"Comet\" would be set around 1758 in New York, as well as feature sailing on the Atlantic Ocean. The game would be a direct sequel to \"Black Flag\", and would be the first to feature a Templar as the main protagonist, named Shay. In May 2014, Guillemot stated that \"Assassin's Creed\" games would continue releasing on the last generation PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 \"for the foreseeable future\", despite the franchise moving to the current generation PlayStation 4 and Xbox One with \"Assassin's Creed Unity\". On August 5, Ubisoft officially announced the game as \"Assassin's Creed Rogue\". It was released in North America on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on November 11, 2014 and in Europe and Australasia on November 13, 2014. It was released on Windows in March 2015. In January 2018, a remastered version was announced for release on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2018.\n\nThe story is set in Paris on the eve of the French Revolution and follows Arno Dorian and his fellow assassins as Dorian attempts to avenge his foster father's death, as well as discover Templar infighting as a result of the Revolution. \n\nOn March 19, 2014, images leaked for the next game, titled or code-named \"Unity\", showing a new assassin in Paris. On March 21, Ubisoft confirmed the game's existence, having been in development for more than three years, by releasing pre-alpha game footage. The game features up to four player co-op, a first for the series. It was released in North America for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows on November 11, 2014 and in Europe and Australasia on November 13, 2014.\n\nThe plot is set in Victorian era London and follows twin assassins Jacob and Evie Frye as they navigate the corridors of organized crime, and take back the city from Templar control.\n\nIn December 2014, images and information leaked for a new \"Assassin's Creed\" game, titled or code-named \"Victory\", which was later confirmed by Ubisoft. In May 2015, Kotaku leaked that \"Victory\" had been renamed \"Syndicate\". On May 12, 2015, the game was officially announced by Ubisoft. The PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One version of the game was released on October 23, 2015, while the Microsoft Windows version was released on November 19, 2015.\n\nThe story is set in Ptolemaic Egypt and follows a Medjay named Bayek, whose fight to protect his people, leads him to create the Secret Order the Assassins, with the game exploring the origin of their conflict with the Knights of Templar, serving as a prequel to the entire series.\n\nIn February 2016, Ubisoft announced they would not be releasing a new game in 2016 in order to step \"back and [re-examine] the \"Assassin's Creed\" franchise... [and take the] year to evolve the game mechanics and to make sure we're delivering on the promise of \"Assassin's Creed\" offering unique and memorable gameplay experiences\". On the decision, Guillemot said that \"Ubisoft started to question the annualized franchise with the release of \"Assassin's Creed Unity\", and the fact that \"Assassin's Creed Syndicate\" had \"a slower launch than expected\". Guillemot added that \"by moving away from the annual iterations of the franchise, it will give the \"Assassin's Creed\" teams more time to take advantage of new engines and technology\". \"Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag\"s director Ashraf Ismail, commented on an interview that he and the team would be interested in doing an \"Assassin's Creed\" game in an Ancient Egyptian setting, along with reiterating an earlier statement that a female leading character was not an impossibility for the series. In May 2017, Ubisoft confirmed the development of \"Assassin's Creed Origins\". It was announced to be set in the Ptolemaic Egypt in June 2017. The game was released worldwide on October 27, 2017 for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Windows.\n\nThe game takes place during the Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta, at the height of Classical Greece. Players choose between two playable protagonists; Alexios and Kassandra, and embark on a quest to discover mysteries surrounding their family, as well as to undermine a proto-Templar organization; the Cult of Kosmos. \n\nAssassin's Creed Odyssey was leaked in May 2018 by a picture posted by the French website Jeuxvideo, and it first announced at E3 2018. The game was released on October 5, 2018 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Heritage Collection\" collects the first five games of the main series into one collection, featuring \"Assassin's Creed\", \"Assassin's Creed II\", \"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood\", \"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\" and \"Assassin's Creed III\". Released on PC, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on November 8, 2013.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: The Americas Collection\", developed by Ubisoft Montreal, features \"Assassin's Creed III\", \"Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD\" and \"Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag\", for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. The collection was released on October 28, 2014.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: The Ezio Collection\", developed by Virtuos and Ubisoft Montreal, features remastered versions of \"Assassin's Creed II\", \"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood\" and \"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\" single-player modes, using the Anvil engine, for the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One (the multiplayer being excluded from the package). The games feature improved graphics, lighting, effects and textures, and also include all previously released downloadable content for the single-player. In addition, the bundle features the short films \"\" and \"\". The collection was released on November 15, 2016 to mixed reviews, being generally criticized for its minimal graphical enhancements, the dated gameplay, and the capped 30 frames per second.\n\nThe story follows a Louisiana Creole woman, named Aveline. Aveline is the daughter of a French merchant father and an African mother. She is recruited into the Assassin Order by a former slave and fights against slavery as well as the Templars.\n\nAn original \"Assassin's Creed\" title for the PlayStation Vita was announced to be in development during Gamescom 2011, and would feature a new story with new characters. On June 4, 2012 at E3, \"Liberation\" was officially announced. Aveline uses a variety of new weapons in combat, including a machete and a blowpipe for ranged attacks. On September 10, 2013, it was announced that the game would be re-released as \"Assassin's Creed: Liberation HD\" for PlayStation 3, Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows via the PlayStation Network, Xbox Live Arcade and Steam, respectively, in January 2014.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Chronicles\" is an episodic 2.5D action game for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita and Xbox One. The first episode is available with the purchase of \"Assassin's Creed Unity\"s DLC season pass and features Shao Jun in 16th century China. The second entry, \"India\", was released on January 12, 2016 on the same platforms, and the last entry, \"Russia\", was released on February 9, 2016.\n\nAltaïr Ibn-La'Ahad is sent on a mission from the Order of Assassins to retrieve a Chalice from the grasps of both the Crusaders and the Saracens. Altaïr quests to find three different magic keys then travels to Jerusalem to face the head of the Knights Templar, Basilisk. Upon arriving, he learns that the Chalice is not an object, but a woman named Adha who reveals that Altaïr has been deceived by an assassin named Harash, who is now a double-agent for the Templars. After killing both Harash and Basilisk, Altaïr attempts to save a kidnapped Adha from captivity but is too late. The game ends with a captured Adha sailing away and Altaïr left in the holy land.\n\nAltaïr has traveled to Cyprus from the Holy Land in order to assassinate the last remnants of the Templars. Here Altaïr again meets Maria and they travel together to kill the remaining Templars and learn more about the \"Apple of Eden\" and the mysterious Templar Archive where more of the artifacts are believed to be hidden. Altaïr manages to kill the new Templar Grand Master, Armand Bouchart, and his followers, but the Archive's contents are discovered to have already been taken from Cyprus.\n\nAfter losing the Apple of Eden to Girolamo Savonarola, Ezio is told to meet Antonio, his fellow Assassin. When doing so, Ezio finds Antonio with another man named Luis Santangel, who asks Ezio to rescue his friend Christoffa Corombo from a presumed Templar trap set up by Rodrigo Borgia. Ezio rescues Christoffa from this trap, and is informed that Assassins in Spain are captured and executed by Tomas Torquemada. Ezio, who feels that it is his duty to rescue the Assassins, sets out for Spain to fight back against the Spanish Inquisition. Along the way, Ezio finds out that Torquemada was ordered to commit these actions by Rodrigo Borgia, who leads Torquemada to believe that God desired it so. Ezio also finds out that his close allies, Luis Santangel and Raphael Sanchez, are in fact Assassins themselves. When finally confronting Torquemada, Ezio chooses not to kill him thinking that Torquemada is merely misled by Borgia and not a Templar himself. Ezio then returns to Italy to continue his search for the Apple of Eden.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Recollection\" is a real-time board game developed for iOS. The game delivers a new experience to the \"Assassin's Creed\" world in which fans and new players alike go head-to-head in real-time political battles with characters from the franchise. Players can also unlock a collection of artwork, spanning the series. The game features over 280 Memories, reconnecting with characters from \"Assassin's Creed II\" and \"\". The single-player Story Mode has 10+ hours of gameplay, with 20 missions taking place from Barcelona to Constantinople and 10 challenge missions. In Versus Mode, players can challenge their friends and people from around the world, pitting their strategies and abilities against one another. The game supports Game Center, allowing players to track achievements, challenge friends, and play against the world over. Go behinds the scenes with the Art Gallery, a collection of artwork spanning the entire franchise (\"Assassin's Creed\", \"Assassin's Creed II\", \"\", \"\" and \"Assassin's Creed III\") showcasing the high level of quality in character design as well as the attention to detail in the locations. Through the Store, players have the option to Buy Packs for the in-game currency, Animus Credits (Animus Credits may also be purchased through an In-App Purchase), or to Buy/Sell Memories from/to other players in the Market. The short film \"\" is also featured within the game.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Multiplayer Rearmed\" is a multiplayer video game designed for iOS. It is the only \"Assassin's Creed\" Multiplayer driven by an in-game economy. The aim is to assassinate the assigned target and avoid being killed by your own hunter. The player can purchase additional items, characters and abilities as well as compete with friends and foes from around the globe in a 4 player realtime online multiplayer mode. Players can connect via Game Center using either WI-FI or 3G. It is also possible to play against someone in the immediate area via Bluetooth. Available map locations include Jerusalem, San Donato, Venice and Alhambra.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Pirates\" is a mobile game, that was released on iOS and Android devices on December 5, 2013. Developed by Ubisoft Paris, the game follows Captain Alonzo Batilla, who is neither Assassin nor Templar, as he commands a ship and crew, while crossing paths with the Assassins and Templars. Gameplay focuses on real-time battles between ships. The title is in 3D and features both wind and weather that will affect how players proceed.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Memories\" is a mobile game that was released on iOS devices on August 20, 2014. Developed along with PlayNext and Gree, the game combines card collection and battling, target chasing, and strategy elements, along with the option of competitive multiplayer. Additional multiplayer options include allowing players to join a guild and then engage in 20 vs 20 guild combat scenarios. \"Memories\" features different historical eras, including the Third Crusade, the golden age of piracy, feudal Japan and the Mongolian Empire.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Identity\" is a game for iOS and Android devices that was released worldwide on February 25, 2016. It is a 3D third-person role-playing game. It had a soft-launch in Australia and New Zealand in 2014.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Rebellion\" is a game for iOS and Android devices that was released worldwide on November 21, 2018. It is a free-to-play strategy RPG.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Project Legacy\" was a single-player browser-based role-playing game Facebook application, designed as a promotion, and tie-in for \"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood\". The game is mostly text-based, but includes graphics and sound as well as some video.\n\nPlayers are test subjects for Abstergo Industries who relive the lives of other test subjects' Assassin ancestors; instead of using the Animus, players use the Data Dump Scanner (DDS).\n\nThe first mission pack is titled \"Italian Wars\", and is divided into four chapters. Chapter one focuses on Bartolomeo d'Alviano during the Battle of Agnadello. The second chapter focuses on Francesco Vecellio on a mission to kill Niccolò di Pitigliano (cousin of Bartolomeo d'Alviano). The third focuses on Mario Auditore and the protection of Monteriggioni. The fourth and final chapter focuses on Perotto Calderon, an undercover assassin who watches over Lucrezia Borgia, with whom he falls in love.\n\nThe second mission pack, entitled \"Rome\", was released November 16, 2010. The first chapter takes place between 1497 and 1503, and deals with the ex-courtesan, Fiora Cavazza. It deals with Fiora's involvement in recruiting an army for the Borgia, and her subsequent betrayal. The second takes place in 1503, and involves Giovanni Borgia, fleeing his family and eventually joining the assassins. Chapter three involves Francesco Vecellio, and his training to be an assassin under Ezio Auditore. Chapter four again focuses on Giovanni Borgia, now an Assassin and joining Hernán Cortés on his journey to Tenochtitlan to acquire a \"Piece of Eden\", one of the Crystal Skulls. Giovanni brought it to Bombastus for study, resulting in the discovery of the formula for the Philosopher's stone.\n\nThe third mission pack, entitled \"Holidays\", and its first Chapter called Ghosts of Christmas Past were released on December 21, 2010 with further missions to be released in 2011. The first chapter takes place at various times and places in history: during the World War I Christmas Truce, the \"Beagle 2\" truth, the return of Charles II back to England, and the time of the Shroud of Turin.\n\nA fourth story pack, \"The Divine Science Story Pack\" was announced, but never released. Additionally, an updated user interface (referred to as the 'DDS 2.0') was announced, but not released. The DDS 2.0 would have offered an easier method of selecting mission packs and equipment.\n\nThe game was later shut down and put on an indefinite hold.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Utopia\" is a cancelled mobile game which was planned to be available on Android and iOS devices. The game's story would have led into \"Assassin's Creed III\", though there would have been no links in terms of gameplay.\n\n\"Utopia\" would have taken place in the 17th century, at the very beginning of the colonization of North America. Gameplay would have spanned 150 years of history, to help players \"discover how the Assassins influenced history and helped shape the nation's original thirteen colonies\". The gameplay involved building a colonial city, and was planned to have more of a \"social slant\" than any of the earlier games. The Assassins of each colony would have taken on their enemies in \"limited time epic battles\", and players would have been able to pit their strength against friends in asynchronous 3D brawls.\n\nAsked about the future of the series in 2009, Sébastien Puel from Ubisoft said that \"we could do 35 of these [\"Assassin's Creed\" games]\", while Laurent Detoc from Ubisoft later said \"we hope to reach \"Assassin's Creed 10\"\".\n\nIn November 2011, a Ubisoft survey was sent out, asking participants which locations and time periods they would like to see in the \"next \"Assassin's Creed\" games\". These settings were Medieval China, Victorian England, Ancient Egypt, the Portuguese and/or Spanish Invasion of the Americas, the American Revolution, the Russian Revolution, Feudal Japan, and Ancient Rome. Alex Hutchinson, creative director of \"Assassin's Creed III\", suggested the most requested \"Assassin's Creed\" settings, World War II, Feudal Japan and Ancient Egypt, are \"the three worst settings for an \"Assassin's Creed\" game\". However, Hutchinson stated both he and Corey May were open to the idea of a future entry set during the time of the British Raj, which now consists of the modern states of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Myanmar. Victorian England, the American Revolution, Medieval China, parts of the British Raj, the Russian Revolution, and Ancient Egypt were subsequently used for \"Assassin's Creed Syndicate\", \"Assassin's Creed III\", \"Assassin's Creed Chronicles\", and \"Assassin's Creed Origins\", respectively, with World War I appearing as a section of \"Syndicate\", and World War II as an easter egg in \"Unity\".\n\nIn June 2013, Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot stated on the development cycle of the games, saying, \"We are making sure the teams who are creating the different iterations have enough time—two years, three years, so that they can take risk and they can change the concept enough so that it can be appealing and fresh.\" The following August, \"Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag\"s director Ashraf Ismail said that the ending of the franchise had been written, saying \"We have an idea of where the end is, what the end is. But of course Yves [Guillemot] announced we are a yearly title, we ship one game a year. So depending on the setting, depending on what fans want, we've given ourselves room to fit more in this arc. But there is an end.\"\n\nUbisoft expanded the \"Assassin's Creed\" franchise to other media, including films, comic books and novels.\n\nIn November 2016, it was announced that Ubisoft and Netflix started talks regarding how to develop an \"Assassin's Creed\" series. In July 2017, Adi Shankar revealed he would be creating the series, which would be in the anime format. The series, which will feature an original story from Shankar, will share the same universe as the other media of the franchise.\n\nA live-action film, \"Assassin's Creed\", set in the same universe as the video games and other media, was released on December 21, 2016 to negative reviews. Development for the film began in October 2011, when Sony Pictures entered final negotiations with Ubisoft Motion Pictures to make the film. In July 2012, Michael Fassbender was announced to star in the film, as well as co-produce the film. His role was revealed in August 2015 as Callum Lynch, whose ancestor Aguilar, is an assassin from 15th-century Spain. In October 2012, Ubisoft revealed the film would no longer be produced by Sony Pictures, instead co-produced with New Regency and distributed by 20th Century Fox. In January 2013, Michael Lesslie was hired to write the film, with Scott Frank, Adam Cooper and Bill Collage performing rewrites to the script. By the end of April 2014, Justin Kurzel was in talks to direct. Principal photography began on August 31, 2015, and ended on January 15, 2016. Released on December 21, 2016, the film was poorly received by critics though performed adequately at the box office.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Lineage\" is a 36-minute film serving as a prequel to \"Assassin's Creed II\". The film, released in three parts on YouTube, promoted the game and is the first attempt for Ubisoft to make its first step in the film industry. It is about the story of Giovanni Auditore, Ezio's father, who investigates the mysterious assassination of Duke of Milan Galeazzo Maria Sforza and first learns about Rodrigo Borgia's conspiracy.\n\nOriginally named \"Secret Project Number Three\", \"Ascendance\" is an animated short by UbiWorkshop and Ubisoft Montreal, which bridges the gap between \"Assassin's Creed II\" and \"\". It tells the backstory of Cesare Borgia's rise to power. The animated short was revealed by UbiWorkshop on 10 November 2010. It was released on November 16, 2010 for Xbox Live, PlayStation Store and iTunes Store. The short story takes place in the middle of the events of Brotherhood as Ezio Auditore sits and gathers information about Cesare Borgia, from a hooded man who is later revealed to be Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nThe short film follows an elderly Ezio, living a peaceful life in the Tuscan countryside with his wife Sofia and his children Flavia and Marcello and writing his memoirs. One day a stranger appears, a Chinese female Assassin called Shao Jun, who came to Ezio in order to seek knowledge of his life as an Assassin. Although Ezio prefers that Jun not stay, due to his desire to leave his days as an Assassin behind, Sofia allows her to stay for the night. The next day, Ezio catches Jun reading his memoirs and bids her to leave, but relents after she asks him about what it means to be an Assassin. While on a trip to Firenze, Ezio then recounts his story of how his father and brothers were executed in the town square, forcing him to become an Assassin, and how such a life is defined by the pain it brings and causes. As they leave, the two are attacked by a stranger, who appears to be of Asian origin as well. After killing him, Jun reveals that she was a former concubine, now on the run from servants of the Chinese Zhengde Emperor, and explains how her former master rescued her from his influence. After returning to his home, Ezio tells Sofia and his children to leave, knowing that others would come. He then teaches Jun the key to liberating her people from the Emperor's influence. Later that night, Ezio's villa is attacked by more of Shao Jun's enemies, and after a fight, he successfully eliminates them all. The next morning, Ezio hands Shao Jun a small box and tells her it may come to use one day, but only if \"you lose your way\". He then sends her away as two riders appear at the villa. Sometime afterward Ezio journeys to Firenze with his wife Sofia and their daughter Flavia, despite suffering from heart problems. While resting on a bench and after having a short conversation with a young man with a scar on his face, similar to the sort of man he used to be, he exhales and dies in view of his family. The film then ends as a final letter from Ezio to Sofia is read, saying that of all the things that kept him going throughout life, love for the world around him was the strongest of them all.\n\nIn the limited edition of \"Assassin's Creed\", an 8-page graphic novel was included, that showed two side-stories of Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad and Desmond Miles. The story serves as a prelude to the first \"Assassin's Creed\" game and is narrated simultaneously by both characters. In it, the novel covers Desmond's escape from Abstergo in the year 2012 and also one of Altaïr's assassination missions in the year 1191. The start of the novel involves the introduction of the two characters with Altaïr calling himself a hunter, while Desmond is a prisoner. Although initially they describe themselves otherwise, by the end of the novel they both re-introduce themselves as assassins.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Volume 1: Desmond\" is a French-language graphic novel written by Eric Corbeyran and drawn by Djilalli Defaux. It has been released in France, Canada, Belgium, Poland and Italy. The comic book was published on November 13, 2009, a few days before \"Assassin's Creed II\" was released. The story is a retelling of events from \"Assassin's Creed\" and the beginning of \"Assassin's Creed II\", mostly from Desmond's modern perspective; for example it is revealed that Lucy helped the Templars to kidnap Desmond. It also features Subject 16 (referred to as Michael) and a Roman assassin named Aquilus. However, events in the comic book are different from what happens in the game. It is said that Subject 16 is alive but trapped in the animus, a virtual reality simulator used to relive memories of ancient relatives, but there's no mention of Shaun or Rebecca.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Volume 2: Aquilus\" is a French-language graphic novel written by Eric Corbeyran and drawn by Djilalli Defaux. The story opens with a young Desmond recalling his conversation with his father. He wakes up and has a conversation with Lucy. After meeting Rebecca, Shaun and other assassins, they get into a truck and drive to Monteriggioni.\n\nIn the meantime, Desmond relives memories of Aquilus through the animus after his apparent death in the first volume. The Roman assassin is rescued by his cousin, Accipiter, and is tasked with a quest to save Lugdunum. He meets with his father and discovers an artifact of the first civilization: an ankh which can temporarily revive the dead. The mysterious object is then stolen by a Templar senator, Vultur, who kills Aquilus' father.\n\nThe modern day story continues as Assassins fight Abstergo agents when they're ambushed on the road. Later, it is revealed that there's a traitor among in the Assassins' truck, and Desmond deals with the situation. The group finally arrives in Monteriggioni and at the end, it's hinted that the ankh artifact might be hidden within the town's walls.\n\nJonathan Hawk was sent by a suited executive and a lab technician to relive Accipiter's memories. He was sent to 259 CE, when Accipiter's Alamans were crossing the Rodanus into Genava and Aube to face the Roman forces at Oppidum. The battle raged bloodily and long, but Accipiter's forces were eventually victorious. Accipiter was met by the Iberian Assassin Cuervo after the battle, the latter coming to congratulate the Alamans on their victory and to discuss the future.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed, Volume 4: Hawk\" is the fourth volume of the French graphic novels. It is centered on the story of Jonathan Hawk and his Egyptian ancestor Numa Al'Khamsin, a member of the Assassins in the 14th century. It was released on November 16, 2012.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed, Volume 5: El Cakr\" is the fifth volume of the French graphic novels. It is centered on the story of Jonathan Hawk and his Egyptian ancestor Numa Al'Khamsin, also known as \"El Cakr\". It was released on October 31, 2013.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed, Volume 6: Leila\" is the sixth volume of the French graphic novels. It is centered on the story of Jonathan Hawk and his Egyptian ancestor Numa Al'Khamsin, also known as \"El Cakr\". It is the last of the Egyptian storyline. It was released on October 31, 2014.\n\nIn July 2010, Ubisoft announced a three-part comic book mini-series set in the world of \"Assassin's Creed\" as a part of their UbiWorkshop initiative. Ubisoft has hired illustrators Cameron Stewart and Karl Kerschl, both winners of multiple comic book awards. The first issue of the series was released on November 10, 2010, the second part on December 1, 2010. It was published by WildStorm. The comic takes place between 1888 and 1908 in Russia and 1998 set in the United States. It follows Nikolai Orelov and his descendant Daniel Cross, a recovering alcoholic experiencing the bleeding effect in a therapist's office.\n\n\"The Chain\" is a sequel comic to \"The Fall\" that completes Nikolai Orelov's story as well as focusing on his descendant, Daniel Cross. The comic will also provide some light on the events of \"Assassin's Creed III\". It was released in mid-2012.\n\n\"Brahman\" is set in 19th century India, and introduced the Assassin Arbaaz Mir. It was written by Brendan Fletcher with art by Cameron Stewart and Karl Kerschl. It was released in late-2013 in North America.\n\nOscillating between contemporary San Diego and the Salem witch trials, \"Assassin's Creed\" follows Charlotte de la Cruz, an over-educated conspiracy theorist, who soon comes under attack from Templars after learning she is the descendent of Assassins. The series is published by Titan Comics, and is written by Kill Shakespeare's Anthony Del Col and Conor McCreery, illustrated by Neil Edwards, and coloured by Ivan Nunes.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Awakening\" was an adaptation of \"\" in 2013.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Renaissance\" is a novel based on the \"Assassin's Creed\" series written by Oliver Bowden and published by Penguin Books. It is a novelised version of the game \"Assassin's Creed II\"; however, rather than spanning a vast period of time, it is set only in the 15th century with no mention of the series' present-day events.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood\" is a continuation of the \"Assassin's Creed\" series written by Oliver Bowden and published by Penguin Books. It is a novelized version of the game \"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood\" just like its previous book. It does not contain any of the game's present-day events including Desmond, only a reference to a \"phantom\" by Ezio. Unlike the events of the game which start in 1499, this version of the story starts in 1503.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: The Secret Crusade\" is the third \"Assassin's Creed\" book by Oliver Bowden and published by Penguin Books. The story is told by Niccolò Polo, father of Marco Polo, and is about the life of Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad. It was released on June 20, 2011.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\" is the fourth novel in the continuation of the \"Assassin's Creed\" series written by Oliver Bowden and published by Penguin Books. The novel release date is November 24, 2011 for the United Kingdom and November 29, 2011 for the North America. Like the previous novels of \"Renaissance\" and \"Brotherhood\", it is a novelised version of the game \"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\". Additionally like the prior novels, it does not contain any of the game's present-day events including Desmond. Like the game, Ezio Auditore must leave his life behind in search of answers, in search of the truth. In Assassin's Creed: Revelations, master assassin Ezio Auditore walks in the footsteps of the legendary mentor Altair, on a journey of discovery and revelation. It is a perilous path—one that will take Ezio to Constantinople, the heart of the Ottoman Empire, where a growing army of Templars threatens to destabilise the region.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Forsaken\" is a continuation of the \"Assassin's Creed\" series written by Oliver Bowden. It covers the life of Haytham Kenway during his years before and during the events of \"Assassin's Creed III\".\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Black Flag\" is a continuation of the \"Assassin's Creed\" series written by Oliver Bowden. The novel chronicles the events of the game with the same name. It was released on November 7, 2013.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Unity\" is a continuation of the \"Assassin's Creed\" series written by Oliver Bowden. The novel focuses on the events of the game from Elise's and Arno's perspectives. It was released on November 20, 2014.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed Underworld\" unveils the story of Master Assassin Henry Green/Jayadeep Mir, the son of Indian Master Assassin Arbaaz Mir and his wife Pyara Kaur (the two debuted in \"Assassin's Creed: Brahman\"), six years before the events depicted in \"Assassin's Creed: Syndicate\".\n\n\"Assassin's Creed: Desert Oath\" is an account of Bayek's early years. The book is a prequel to \"Assassin's Creed: Origins\" game and revolves around how a young Bayek follows in his father, Sabu's footsteps to become a Medjay and more. The book further explains why the Order wants Medjay bloodline erased.\n\nA board game called \"\" was launched on February 26, 2014. On it appeared typical characters of \"\", like Shahkulu, Anacletos, Odai Dunqas and Oksana Razin.\n\nOn 17 September 2018 it was announced by Triton Noir the launch of a new board game called \"Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood of Venice\". It will take place in 1509 with Ezio Auditore da Firenze, Leonardo da Vinci, and Lucrezia Borgia; but it also include new characters like Alessandra. It was developed by Thibaud de la Touanne, it will have more than 20 hours of play, and it will be released in November.\n\nUbiWorkshop released an encyclopedia of the \"Assassin's Creed\" series in 2011. Initially intended as an art book, the project gathered so much material that the company decided to expand it into an encyclopedia. It features works of artists, such as Craig Mullins, Tavis Coburn, 123Klan, Gabz and James NG. Artists were given creative freedom, as they were able to create a unique Assassin from the period of their choosing. The art book contains a \"carte blanche\" section, which is going to contain fan-submitted artwork.\n\nIn November 2012, to coincide with the release of \"Assassin's Creed III\", UbiWorkshop released a second edition of the encyclopedia. This Edition contained an additional 120 pages of content, covering both \"Assassin's Creed III\" and \"Assassin's Creed: The Chain\", as well as revised content based on feedback.\n\nThe Third Edition of the \"Assassin's Creed: Encyclopedia\" is an updated hardcover edition incorporating information of characters and events from \"Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag\" and \"Assassin's Creed: Brahman\" along with new artwork and concept art. It was released worldwide on November 11, 2013 and includes 390 pages of new content and a revised version of the second edition, which is also available to purchase from UbiWorkshop.\n\nThe \"Assassin's Creed\" series have received mainly positive reviews from critics, many of whom have called \"Assassin's Creed\" \"...the standout series on [the seventh generation] of consoles\". It has been praised for its ambitious game design, visuals, and narratives, but criticized for its technical issues and annual releases of installments, which has sometimes led to a general feeling of over-saturation and loss of innovation. , the series has sold over 100 million copies, becoming Ubisoft's best selling franchise and one of the highest selling video game franchises of all time.\n\n\"Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag\" introduces the character of Olivier Garneau, as the CEO of video game company Abstergo Entertainment (who helps Ubisoft to develop the \"Assassin's Creed\" video games within the franchise's fictional plot). During the game's plot, Garneau goes to Chicago, the setting of Ubisoft's game \"Watch Dogs\". In the latter video game, Garneau is the subject of a side mission that sees playable protagonist Aiden Pearce saving him from being kidnapped, it is implied that by the Assassin's Brotherhood. Additionally, two characters in the game are seen playing \"Assassin's Creed II\". Ubisoft has described those appearances as small Easter eggs, and has neither confirmed nor denied a shared continuity between both franchises. \"Assassin's Creed Origins\" mentions the news about Garneau's incident in Chicago, along with a picture of Aiden Pearce killing Garneau. Ubisoft still has not confirmed a shared continuity, between both video game franchises, but this is the only crossover that seems to imply a shared plot.\n\nIn the 2009 Wii game \"\", Altaïr appears as a playable character along with other Ubisoft characters. In the 2012 game \"Soulcalibur V\", Ezio appears as a playable fighter and is featured on the box art.\n\nSackboy, the player character from \"LittleBigPlanet\" and its sequel, can be costumed as Ezio. In \"\" there is an unlockable outfit through Uplay. In \"Prince of Persia\" (2008), Altaïr's costume can be unlocked with a code obtained by pre-ordering the game. \"Final Fantasy XIII-2\" has a costume of Ezio from \"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\" as an optional costume option as downloadable content. In PC/Mac versions of \"Team Fortress 2\", two promotional items were introduced in 2011 months before \"Assassin's Creed: Revelations\"' release. These were both for the class Spy, the first item being the iconic hidden blade, the second a hood based on the one Ezio wore in \"Revelations\".\n\nIn \"\", the outfit of Altaïr is available as an unlockable, though, originally, it was only an April Fools joke by Hideo Kojima. Kojima later repaid the favor, by letting Ubisoft borrow the outfit of the \"Metal Gear Solid\" character Raiden as an unlockable in \"Assassin's Creed Brotherhood\". In \"\", the player can jump into a bale of hay from a rooftop (which also includes the \"Eagle\" sound effect used in the \"Assassins' Creed\" games) and use it to attract and subdue enemies. The Assassin order is also referenced by a character.\n\nIn downloadable contents, Ubisoft collaborated with Square Enix to held a limited-time \"Assassin's Creed\"-themed festival event crossover into the \"Final Fantasy XV\" on consoles under the title \"Assassin's Festival\", starting August 31, 2017 until January 31, 2018. The DLC featuring gameplay elements from the \"Assassin's Creed\" game series, new additional quests, mini-games, and exclusive items from \"Assassin's Creed\" series.\n\nIn the 2011 Indian film \"Velayudham\", the superhero costume worn by the protagonist is visibly based on Altaïr's in \"Assassin's Creed\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32163901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32163901", "title": "Barbadirame", "text": "Barbadirame\n\nMario Raimondo, known as Barbadirame, was an Italian artist.\n\nBarbadirame was a close associate of Pablo Picasso from when the pair first met in the 1950s until Picasso’s death in 1973. Speaking about Barbadirame in 1963 Pablo Picasso said: “To speak about young painters it is not my habit. The Italian painter ‘Raimondo' known as ‘Barbadirame', is a true painter, serious, like the workers of his earth. He implements his works decisively and with simplicity. The stone walls, the mediterranean olive trees, all have the same humanity of their agriculturists, the eternity. He is an artist that counts”.\n\nMario Raimondo was born in Dolceacqua, Italy, in 1923. He began his professional life as a decorator, painting numerous frescoes in private residences and castles while wandering the Riviera dei Fiori and the Costa Azzurra. Barbadirame was a complete artist, equally at home in different mediums. A painter and a sculptor, one of his most famed sculptures is the huge statue he created, in collaboration with Mario Agrifoglio, in honor of the astronomer Gian Domenico Cassini (1625–1712).\n\nDuring his life Barbadirame’s exhibitions were attended by celebrities including Jean Cocteau, Picasso, Grace Kelly and her husband, the prince of Monaco. Towards the end of his career, Barbardirame received the Biamonti Prize, a prize for art and literature portraying the true essence of Italy’s Liguria region. The prize was named after Francesco Biamonti (1933–2001), a celebrated Italian novelist from Liguria. Biamonti himself wrote of Barbardirame’s work: “His peasants, his women, his Christs have lost every crudeness, without losing the truth of their solidity…” \n\nBarbadirame died in Bordighera, Italy, on 15 January 2010.\n"}
{"id": "9469448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9469448", "title": "Basic writing", "text": "Basic writing\n\nBasic writing, or developmental writing, is a discipline of composition studies which focuses on the writing of students sometimes otherwise called \"remedial\" or \"underprepared\", usually freshman college students.\n\nSometimes called “remedial” or “developmental” writing, basic writing (BW) was developed in the 1970s, generally under the constraints of open admissions policies. Basic writing courses are meant to help students come to a basic understanding and familiarity with formal written English. BW students can be categorized two ways: 1) students coming straight from high school, who did not develop a basic competency in formal written English before graduation and who placed below average on a college writing placement test, and 2) non-traditional students who are older than average college freshman and who are coming to college for the first time in order to further their education in the hopes of gaining the skills necessary for better employment and earning more money. These are generally students that may have full-time jobs, come to classes at night, and may have children, and perhaps be a single parent. In some cases non-native and ESL students are also considered basic writers, because of their unfamiliarity with the English language, let alone formal written English (sometimes identified as standard English).\n\nBW students are usually characterized by a lack of understanding of the rules of formal written English which may manifest itself in non-traditional syntax, grammar, spelling, punctuation, usage, mechanics, organization, and clarity. Mina Shaughnessy, a pioneer in the field of basic writing, characterized basic writers as “those that had been left so far behind the others in their formal education that they appeared to have little chance of catching up, students whose difficulty with the written language seemed of a different order from those of the other groups, as if they had come, you might say, from a different country, or at least through different schools, where even modest standards of high-school literacy had not been met.\" However, BW is also a relative term. What might be considered freshman-level writing at one university might be characterized as basic writing at another, or even advanced writing at another, depending on the ability of the general student population and university standards.\n\nBasic Writing is also a field of study. The research in the field probes into the concerns of teachers and students on the academic margins. Deborah Mutnick explains about Basic Writing:\n\n“It signifies struggles for inclusion, diversity and equal opportunity; debates over standards and linguistic hegemony; the exploitation of faculty and staff on the academic margins; and the policies that opened and not threatened to close higher education’s doors to masses of people. It has played a key role not only in providing opportunities for research on adult literacy but also in illuminating the politics of writing in terms of race, class, ethnicity, and other social structures that would have remained invisible in the mostly white, middle-class classrooms that have traditionally constituted the “mainstream.”\n\nThe creation of basic writing courses in colleges across the United States is largely the result of the creation of open-admissions policies that no longer required academic standards be set for entrance into college. The first to start such a program was the City University of New York (CUNY). Before opening their campus to all those who wanted higher education, regardless of previous academic performance, CUNY had instituted the SEEK program (Search for Education, Elevation, and Knowledge) which was designed as a pre-collegiate program that was meant to prepare students, who were not yet ready to enter the university, for full admission. However, with the advent of open admissions in 1970 there was no longer a need for pre-collegiate classes, so the program transformed into a course taken by those admitted to the university who did not place well on admissions placement tests. The writing program that stemmed from this transformation became known as a basic writing course because it dealt not with preparing highly literate students for upper-level course work, but with the teaching the very basics of written communication.\n\nSince the late seventies, many colleges and universities have created open admissions policies, and have in turn created BW programs across the country. However, from the very beginning there has been large opposition to open admissions policies. Open admissions detractors have prevailed at some colleges and universities, overturning open admissions policies. As a result, BW course have either been eliminated entirely from the curriculum or have been relegated to community colleges.\n\nMina P. Shaughnessy (pronounced MY-NA SHAWN-ES-EE), involved with the SEEK program at CUNY, was a proponent of open admissions for City College (part of the CUNY system) and became director of the BW program once City College opened its doors to all. Shaughnessy worked hard not only to design a curriculum for students that seemed alien to the professors that literally did not know what to do with students who seemed not to be able to put two words together, in some cases, but to understand and categorize the characteristics of basic writers in order to understand them better, and be able to teach them more effectively. For this purpose, Shaughnessy compiled four-thousand placement essays written by students as part of the entrance process into City College and classified the errors that she found, trying to understand the logic behind spelling, syntax, grammar, etc., that seemed, at best, scattered and, at worst, completely arbitrary. She published her results in the book Errors and Expectations (1977). Her main conclusion is that these writers are not scattered or arbitrary, but that they have created systems of written English based on misunderstood rules, half-understood lessons on punctuation, their own local or familial dialects, among others, and have logically created their own systems of written English. It is not that these students do not understand communication, but they simply have not been taught or have misunderstood the rules of written formal English. Shaughnessy’s work was considered groundbreaking and Errors and Expectations is still considered the seminal book in the field of BW. And although she died in 1978, and other scholars have made contributions to the field, Shaughnessy remains its leading figure today.\n\nMina P. Shaughnessy is arguably the most prominent name in the field of BW. She helped create the atmosphere of academic respectability BW needed to become recognized as a legitimate scholarly field. Her 1977 book, Errors and Expectations, set the tone for much (if not all) of the BW scholarship that followed. BW scholars, whether they agree with Shaughnessy or not, are still responding to her.\n\nThe ‘‘‘Bedford Bibliography for Teachers of Basic Writing’’’ includes this annotation for Errors and Expectations:\n\nAll in all, Shaughnessy saw disadvantaged students as being intelligent (though scholastically under-prepared). She resolutely held that such students could be taught how to effectively write. It is teachers of BW and not BW students that need to radically alter their views toward the teaching and learning of writing. In her 1976 speech, \"Diving In: An Introduction to Basic Writing\", she asserted that “teachers (need to) realize and accept the need to remediate themselves regarding the needs and learning styles of basic writers.” \n\nFrom the ‘‘‘Bedford Bibliography for Teachers of Basic Writing’’’:\n\nTo be fair, we should note that Lu’s critique applied to other big names in the field of BW including Mike Rose (see below).\n\nOther notable scholars of BW, however, like Laura Gray-Rosendale have claimed that such critiques of Shaughnessy do not hold much critical weight. “Shaughnessy’s works,” themselves, she claims, “render ambiguous if not outright defy many such negative characterizations.” . Also, David Bartholomae (see below) has defended Shaughnessy’s emphasis on error in BW students’ writing (though he still advocates refocusing BW to help students learn various academic dialects). Adjusting the focus a bit, “Bartholomae extends Mina Shaughnessy's hope that teachers, especially basic writing teachers, will examine how they view errors in student writing. For example, he suggests that teachers who cannot understand student prose do not read the prose as complex texts and thus do not find the logic at work in many errors.” \n\nDavid Bartholomae is Professor of English and Chair of the English Department at the University of Pittsburgh. Bartholomae’s most-referenced publication about BW is the book chapter “Inventing the University.” The following is a selection from that chapter:\n\nBartholomae asserts that (though important) error should not determine the efforts of or relationship between BW teachers and their students. Rather, BW teachers should recognize that the language they demand from their BW students (typically short, direct, non-abstruse sentences) is not the language that they (the teachers) typically write and publish in. Students experience such disconnect between what they learn from their writing classes and what their discipline specific course require of them that they are often left to their own devices to figure out how to write acceptably in any given discipline. To resolve this, Bartholomae believes that BW teachers should immerse their students with academic writing (peer reviewed journal articles, book chapters, etc.). BW students thus get healthy exposure to sufficient sums of “academic” language in a teacher-assisted environment. This, Bartholomae claims, should help BW students make the transition more quickly to start writing “academically.” The idea that academics might personally strive to exhibit a clear, cogent, and elegant style in their articles and chapters, and thus model good writing for their students to emulate, is not entertained.\n\nMike Rose is Professor of Social Research Methodology at UCLA. He is best known in the BW community for his part autobiographical/part pedagogically philosophical book, ‘‘Lives on the Boundary.’’\n\nThe \"Bedford Bibliography for Teachers of Basic Writing\" offers this annotation:\n\nRose’s main interests in the study of thinking and learning include the, “study of the factors – cognitive, linguistic, socio-historical, and cultural – that enhance or limit people's engagement with written language.” As well as, “The development of pedagogies and materials to enhance critical reading and writing, particularly at the secondary and post-secondary level, and particularly with ‘underprepared’ or ‘at risk’ populations.” \n\nAdditionally, Rose has argued for the term basic writing as opposed to the terms \"developmental\" or \"remedial\" which have the connotations of medical terminology:\n\n\"This atomistic, medical model of language is simply not supported by more recent research in language and cognition. But because the teaching of writing – particularly teaching designated remedial has been conceptually, and [...] administratively segmented from the rich theoretical investigation that characterizes other humanistic study, these assumptions have rarely been subjected to rigorous and comprehensive scrutiny.\"\n\n\nBasic Writing E-journal (BWe)\n"}
{"id": "925445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925445", "title": "Battle Dress Uniform", "text": "Battle Dress Uniform\n\nThe Battle Dress Uniform (BDU) are camouflaged fatigues that were used by the United States Armed Forces as their standard combat uniform from the early 1980s to the mid-2000s. Since then, it has been replaced or supplanted in every branch of the U.S. Armed Forces.\n\nBDU-style uniforms and derivatives still see widespread use in other countries (some of them being former U.S. surplus stocks transferred under U.S. security assistance programs), while others are still worn by some U.S. federal, state and local law enforcement agencies or activities who may work in tactical situations, such as the DEA FAST and SWAT teams.\n\nAs late as 2014, BDUs were worn by officers of the U.S. Public Health Service as the prescribed uniform for deployment, but have since been replaced by a variant of the U.S. Coast Guard's Operational Dress Uniform.\n\nWhile the Italian Army was the first military organization to issue camouflaged clothing, albeit in limited numbers, the Germans were noted for their efforts in this field before the Second World War. After much trial, the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (abbrev. OKW) authorized Heeres-Splittermuster 31, more commonly known as \"splinter pattern\", for use in shelter-quarters (\"Zeltbahnen\") in the 1930s. In 1940, SS-Verfügungstruppe (abbrev. SS-VT; renamed Waffen-SS) designed, tested and issued its own distinctive patterns and layout not long after.\n\nThe United States Marine Corps received its first military camouflage pattern in 1942, when the reversible, beach-jungle, three- and five-color frog-skin pattern uniform was issued, based on a 1940 trial design. The pattern was mostly employed in the Pacific Theatre, but was not found to be particularly effective and in the European Theatre the pattern was withdrawn altogether in 1944—in part because of anticipated friendly fire incidents after D-Day, due to its similarity to the Waffen SS's pattern (Not to be confused with Flecktarn, a modern design.) Camouflaged helmet covers and shelters were issued in the 1950s in \"wine leaf\" and \"brown cloud\" patterns. The U.S. Army also tried a lesser-known camouflage uniform on D-Day and throughout the Normandy operations, like the Marine Corps' uniforms, but it was replaced by the M43 uniform before being used much.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, the United States Armed Forces' four-color ERDL pattern saw limited use among specialist units in the U.S. Army, though most were issued the solid olive green OG107 sateens or jungle fatigues, while the Marines adopted the pattern service-wide after 1968.\n\nThe ERDL pattern fatigues were identical in cut to the third-pattern OD jungle fatigues, and were available in both a highland pattern (more brown), and a lowland pattern (more green), though the lowland pattern was eventually phased out. Other, unofficial, patterns utilized in Vietnam included black-dyed or spray painted jungle fatigues, often used by special purpose forces, and various Vietnamese Tigerstripe patterns (themselves being based on French Army airborne and Foreign Legion patterns and a British design utilized in Malaysia), or commercial \"duck hunter\" patterns.\n\nThe general design and configuration of the U.S. BDU uniform was similar to that of Vietnam War's jungle fatigues, which were in turn similar in configuration to specialty uniforms worn by U.S. paratroopers during World War II.\n\nFirst issued in limited number to garrison leaders, officers and generals to all branches of the U.S. Armed Forces in September 1981 for replacement of the long worn and aging Olive Drab colored uniforms or OG-107, the following month in October, the Battle Dress Uniform began field issue military wide.\n\nSince 1981, changes included the addition and subsequent elimination of buttoned waist adjustment tabs, the size reduction of the collar, and refinements in stitching and fit.\n\nBDUs were initially only issued in a 50/50 nylon and cotton twill blend, called the Temperate Weather BDU, or TWBDU. Complaints regarding the heat retention of these uniforms, especially following the invasion of Grenada in 1983, led to the introduction of the Hot Weather BDU, the HWBDU. The Hot Weather BDU coat and trousers were constructed of 100 percent ripstop cotton, in a four-color woodland camouflage pattern. However, after complaints of shorter wear and frayed cuffs, along with requirements imposed by unit commanders to starch the all-cotton uniform for parade, the Enhanced Hot Weather BDU (EHWBDU) replaced the HWBDU commencing in 1996. The EHWBDU's components are made with 50/50 ripstop nylon and cotton poplin blend.\n\nBDUs were printed with infrared-brightened dyes. Near infrared (NIR) Signature Management Technology is used in the uniforms to help prevent detection by NIR Image Converters. These photocathode devices do not detect temperatures, but rather infrared radiation variances. NIR-compliant uniforms use a special fabric that allows soldiers to appear at the same radiation level as the surrounding terrain, thus making them more difficult to detect. It is advised not to use starch when cleaning or ironing BDUs, since starch weakens the fabric and ruins the infrared protective coating. A pair of BDUs that has been starched even once should not be worn in combat.\n\nThe tropical weight uniform was not as durable as the temperate weight uniform. The tropical uniform would only last for 4–6 months of use when rotating four uniforms for duty, while the temperate uniform would last over a year under the same conditions.\n\nAll United States Army soldiers formally received their first batches of the BDU as its new field and garrison uniform in the temperate weight cut on October 1, 1981. In addition, Patrol caps, boonie hats and the M-65 jacket were issued in the new camouflage pattern in time, including a new light brown T-shirt and black webbed belt with brass buckle.\n\nThe BDU was the first camouflage uniform approved by the U.S. Army since the Vietnam War, where the ERDL pattern was in limited use. The BDU soon replaced all earlier camouflage pattern uniforms for all wooded, jungle, and tropical environments, and by 1989, had completely replaced the standard olive drab uniforms that had been used since 1952.\n\nThe ERDL-patterned BDU was first introduced to the United States Marine Corps in 1977, as they phased out the Olive Drab Green (OD) uniform. The BDU became the issued uniform for the U.S. Army in September 1981 in the woodland camouflage pattern, to begin replacing the Olive Drab Green (OD) or OG-107 colored fatigues, which had been standard wear since the early 1950s. The change was to better conceal Marines and Soldiers effectively in woodland or tropical Areas of Operation with macro shaped patterns, as opposed to OD, which had only a single shade of green. It was based primarily on the woodland colors specifically of northern Europe. It used shades of green, brown, tan, and black, initially printed onto cotton-nylon blend twill cloth, known as the \"Temperate Weight\" uniform. A newer lightweight \"Tropical Weight\" BDU uniform was introduced in 1987 with the pattern printed on 100% cotton rip-stop poplin cloth, to better prevent smaller rips from enlarging.\n\nOriginally, no nametapes were worn with the USMC's BDUs, which was officially referred to by the USMC as a \"camouflage utility uniform\" during its usage. However, in October 1991, the USMC began the wearing of nametapes on their BDUs (and DCUs and DBDUs) in order to comply with NATO Standardization Agreement (STANAG), becoming mandatory by October 1992. In the USMC's case, a nametape bearing the wearer's last name was worn embroidered above the right pocket, and a nametape reading \"U.S. MARINES\" being embroidered was worn above the left pocket. The MCCUU which replaced the BDU continues this.\n\nThe USMC's BDU was worn with a stenciled ironed-on Eagle, Globe, and Anchor (EGA) centered on the wearer's left breast pocket, below the pocket flap. Early USMC BDUs featured \"USMC\" lettering below that EGA, however, that was discontinued later on, with only the sole EGA being used by the end of the BDU's tenure with the USMC. The EGA was ironed-on to the BDU blouse pocket by USMC recruits at the end of MCRD upon completion of their training to signify their christening as U.S. Marines. The same was done on the eight-point \"utility cover\" hat that was worn with the USMC's version of the BDU. The BDU's successor, the MCCUU, has the EGA embroidered instead of stenciled on the blouse and all hats.\n\nAirmen of the U.S. Air Force initially only issued its ERDL BDUs to over seas stationed combat arms units such as United States Air Force Security Forces, Combat Controllers, and United States Air Force Pararescue PJs October 1, 1981, the same time as the Army and Marines. The Air Force did not allow non combat arms Air Force Speciality Codes wear the woodland pattern BDU until the summer of 1987, and mandate them as the only \"Fatigue\" uniform until 1988.\n\nSailors of the United States Navy started issuing the BDU in the new woodland scheme and temperate cut the same time as the other branches. The U.S. Navy referred to the uniform as the \"Camouflage Utility Uniform\" (CUU) during its usage.\n\nCoast Guardsmen started issuing the new woodland BDU around the same time as the other service branches.\n\nThe U.S. military has run trials of many camouflage patterns (some being used by foreign militaries), and issued environment-specific uniforms, notably the six-color Desert Battle Dress Uniform (DBDU), nicknamed the \"chocolate chip camouflage\", designed in 1962, and the \"nighttime desert grid\" (NCDBDU). Both uniforms were used in 1991, during the Persian Gulf War. These Desert BDUs were discontinued after the war.\n\nThe Desert Camouflage Uniform (DCU) in three-color desert camouflage were introduced in 1992, and was utilized in operations in Somalia (1993); it was in service in Afghanistan and Iraq from the start of hostilities, but the U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps have both replaced the DCU with newer uniforms (ACU and MCCUU, respectively). In testing, U.S. Army researchers found that, as in other environments, the color of desert terrain varies, and can range from pink to blue, depending on the minerals in the soil and the time of the day. Since patches of uniform color in the desert are usually 10 times larger than those in wooded areas, it was decided to alter the existing six-color DBDU pattern. This led to the development of a three-color pattern DCU, which was adopted.\n\nThe development of modern camouflage patterns and the rising desire of the various U.S. military branches to differentiate themselves from each other has resulted in new patterns for uniforms. The U.S. Marine Corps was the first branch to replace their BDUs. The Marine Corps Combat Utility Uniform (MCCUU) uses the computer-generated MARPAT pattern and several other enhancements. It was approved for wear in June 2001, became available for purchase in 2002, and the changeover was completed by October 1, 2004. The BDU was authorized for wear until April 1, 2005 in limited exceptions for those small numbers of Marines who did not yet have the MCCUU. USMC Special Operations units (MARSOC) have recently issued M81 woodland-patterned uniforms to supplement MARPAT uniforms for special missions.\n\nIn 2004, the U.S. Army unveiled the Army Combat Uniform (ACU), its successor to the BDU. From late 2005 to early 2007, the U.S. Army undertook the process of replacing the BDU with the ACU, with the BDU being formally discontinued by the army in October 2006. The Army Junior ROTC followed suit thereafter in 2009.\n\nThe original version of the ACU uniform used a pixelated \"digital\" pattern known as the Universal Camouflage Pattern (UCP). UCP is similar to MARPAT, but uses more neutral, less saturated colors. The neutral colors, primarily foliage green and sand yellow, are designed to be work best in desert, woodland, and urban combat situations. The ACU in UCP was used by the army in all environments except for areas with snow, as the UCP pattern works poorly against white despite the heavy use of grey. An all-white BDU and the ECWCS are used instead for winterized warfare.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2007, the U.S. Navy began issuing a pixelated blue and gray \"digital\" pattern Navy Working Uniform (NWU) in limited quantities on an experimental basis. While the NWU is neither a tactical uniform nor a battle dress uniform, it is intended to take the place of many existing work ensembles (utilities, wash khaki, coveralls, M81 BDU, etc.). The disruptive pattern is primarily intended to complement U.S. Navy ship colors and to hide stains and wear, and supposedly to make the wearer a less obvious visual target for hostile forces while working aboard a naval vessel in port.\n\nTo meet the Navy's cold-weather requirements, the NWU includes a fleece jacket, pullover sweater, and parka options. U.S. Navy SEALs, Seabees, and other U.S. Navy personnel deployed ashore under the cognizance of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command used \"M81\" woodland BDUs (referred to by the navy as CCUs) and DCUs for outdoor operations or activities in specific areas of responsibility (AOR), until the issuance of the NWU Type III in the AOR camouflage pattern.\n\nIn 2004 and 2005, the U.S. Air Force experimented with, but rejected, a blue-toned tigerstripe uniform. In 2006, a new BDU-style uniform called the \"Airman Battle Uniform\" (ABU) was adopted, using a semi-pixelated tiger pattern with four soft earth tones consisting of tan, grey, green and blue. It failed, however, to incorporate many of the significant improvements of the ACU and MCCUU. By 2007, it was in current production.\n\nIn 2008, responding to criticism that the new Airman Battle Uniform was too heavy and hot in high-temperature environments, the USAF's 648th Aeronautical Systems Squadron at Brooks City-Base revealed plans to switch to a lighter, more breathable fabric for the combat blouse section of the ABU. The original heavyweight nylon-cotton blend was changed to a lighter-weight nylon-cotton poplin material. Priority will go to those serving in the Middle East or other hot-weather theaters.\n\nOn May 4, 2016, the National Commander of the Civil Air Patrol announced the USAF's approval for the Civil Air Patrol to begin its transition to the Airman Battle Uniform.\n\nOn May 14, 2018, the Air Force announced the adoption of the Army's Operational Camouflage Pattern uniform, however, insignia will be distinctive. Transition is to be complete by April 1, 2021.\n\nThe U.S. Coast Guard has introduced the new Operational Dress Uniform (ODU) uniform in 2004 to replace the winter and summer \"Undress Duty\" uniform. Resembling the BDU, the ODU retains the basic design of the old-style BDU uniforms, but with the lower pockets on the blouse being eliminated. The sleeves can be worn \"folded up\" in a manner similar to the old U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force BDUs (since disallowed with the Army ACU) and the trousers \"bloused\" into the boots (unless boating shoes are worn, as is common for the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, which patrols for the Coast Guard aboard privately owned watercraft), with the ODU black belt and blackened buckle being worn with the metal tip two to four inches from the buckle. The ODU is also issued in a single blue color as opposed to any camouflage pattern.\n\nThe dark blue Coast Guard unit baseball-style cap is worn with this uniform. The ODU also has all of its allowable insignia sewn on, eliminating the chance of puncture wounds created by the pins if the individual suffers a blow to the chest while wearing a PFD or body armor. The ODU is not intended to be worn by Coast Guard units which engage in combat operations or are deployed overseas. These units continued to wear older woodland BDU and DCU uniforms before adopting the Navy Work Uniform for USCG units overseas or part of other DoD operations.\n\nThe BDU in MultiCam camouflage is in use today mainly by the public, public service persons, and some foreign military units. BDUs can be purchased from civilian vendors in the UCP pattern analogous to the ACU as well, but these are not authorized for wear by U.S. Army soldiers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5008563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5008563", "title": "Botany 500", "text": "Botany 500\n\nBotany 500 is a brand of menswear and suits that was originally part of a firm based in New York City. The name lives on today as a licensed property by several foreign clothing manufacturers.\n\nBotany 500 was a brand name owned by the Botany 500 Group of New York. Their men’s suits and sport coats were manufactured in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, by H. Daroff and Sons, who were contracted with Botany Mills of Passaic, New Jersey to produce products and later bought the firm outright. Their plant was located at 23rd and Walnut Streets during the 1940s and ’50s and beyond. Until 1945, it was located in the Pitcairn Building at 1027 Arch Street. They also produced another suit called worsted tex that had the image of the head of a German Shepherd dog on its label. The office, on the first floor of the plant, had a stuffed German shepherd standing guard. The seventh and topmost floor contained the top coat design department and a fabric cutting floor.\n\nDaroff and Sons and the Botany 500 group went bankrupt in August 1973. An attempt was made to turn the company over to another company, named Cohen and Sons, which was still operating profitably. Because of resistance by the company's employees, Cohen backed out of the deal by the end of September. When Daroff finally closed its doors in December 1973, Cohen and Sons bought the Botany 500 name and assets for $4 million. They planned to keep the labels, marketing, sales, and distribution of Botany as a separate Botany 500 line.\n\nWith the garment business taking a downturn during the second half of the decade, the Botany and Cohen and Sons operations ceased production in 1986. The building was sold in 1989 for $1,750,000. Manufacturing under Botany 500 name was then outsourced to foreign companies.\n\nBotany 500 provided wardrobe for many game show hosts and television presenters, including Phil Donahue of \"The Phil Donahue Show\".\n\nIn addition, the company also provided the wardrobes for Joey Bishop on \"The Joey Bishop Show,\" Danny Thomas on \"Make Room for Daddy\", John Newland on \"\", Dick Van Dyke on \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", Don Adams on \"Get Smart\", Mike Connors on \"Mannix\", Telly Savalas on \"Kojak\", Bob Newhart on \"The Bob Newhart Show\", Dick Sargent on \"Bewitched\", Brian Keith and Sebastian Cabot on \"Family Affair,\" Sherman Hemsley on \"The Jeffersons\", Lyle Waggoner on \"Wonder Woman\", Peter Graves on \"\", Jack Klugman on \"Quincy, M.E.\", and Bill Macy and Conrad Bain on \"Maude\". Ryan O’Neal’s wardrobe was furnished by Botany 500 in his movie \"Love Story\", Jim Perry on \"Card Sharks\", Bill Cullen on \"Blockbusters\", Bob Eubanks on \"The New Newlywed Game\", and Richard Dawson on \"Family Feud\". The classic TV series \"The Odd Couple\" listed Worsted Tex in its closing credits (essentially dressing Jack Klugman for two series).\n\n"}
{"id": "14270341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14270341", "title": "Compulsive buying disorder", "text": "Compulsive buying disorder\n\nCompulsive buying disorder (CBD), or oniomania (from Greek ὤνιος \"ṓnios\" \"for sale\" and μανία \"manía\" \"insanity\"), is characterized by an obsession with shopping and buying behavior that causes adverse consequences. According to Kellett and Bolton, compulsive buying \"is experienced as an irresistible–uncontrollable urge, resulting in excessive, expensive and time-consuming retail activity [that is] typically prompted by negative affectivity\" and results in \"gross social, personal and/or financial difficulties\". Most people with CBD meet the criteria for a personality disorder. Compulsive shopping is classified by ICD-10 (F63.8) as an \"impulse control disorder, not otherwise classified.\" Several authors consider compulsive shopping rather as a variety of dependence disorder.\n\nEmil Kraepelin originally described oniomania 1924, and he and Bleuler both included the syndrome in their influential early psychiatric textbooks. However, little interest was taken in CBD until the 1990s, and even in the 21st century compulsive shopping can be considered a barely recognised mental illness.\n\nCBD is frequently comorbid with mood, anxiety, substance abuse and eating disorders. People who score highly on compulsive buying scales tend to understand their feelings poorly and have low tolerance for unpleasant psychological states such as negative moods. Onset of CBD occurs in the late teens and early twenties and is generally chronic. CBD is similar to, but distinguished from, OCD hoarding and mania. Compulsive buying is not limited to people who spend beyond their means; it also includes people who spend an inordinate amount of time shopping or who chronically think about buying things but never purchase them. Promising treatments for CBD include medication such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and support groups such as Debtors Anonymous.\n\nThe terms compulsive shopping, compulsive buying, and compulsive spending are often used interchangeably, but the behaviors they represent are in fact distinct. (Nataraajan and Goff 1992) One may buy without shopping, and certainly shop without buying: of compulsive shoppers, some 30% described the act of buying itself as providing a buzz, irrespective of the goods purchased.\n\nCBD often has roots in early experience. Perfectionism, general impulsiveness and compulsiveness, dishonesty, insecurity, and the need to gain control have also been linked to the disorder.\n\nCompulsive buying seems to represent a search for self in people whose identity is neither firmly felt nor dependable, as indicated by the way purchases often provide social or personal identity-markers. Those with associated disorders such as anxiety, depression and poor impulse control are particularly likely to be attempting to treat symptoms of low self-esteem through compulsive shopping.\n\nOthers, however, object that such psychological explanations for compulsive buying do not apply to \"all\" people with CBD.\n\nSocial conditions also play an important role in CBD, the rise of consumer culture contributing to the view of compulsive buying as a specifically postmodern addiction, particularly with regard to internet buying platforms.\n\nReadily available credit cards enable casual spending beyond one's means, and some would suggest that the compulsive buyer should lock up or destroy credit cards altogether. Online shopping also facilitates CBD, with online auction addiction, used to escape feelings of depression or guilt, becoming a recognisable problem.\n\nWhat differentiates CBD from healthy shopping is the compulsive, destructive and chronic nature of the buying. Where shopping can be a positive route to self-expression, in excess it represents a dangerous threat.\n\nA social psychological perspective suggests that compulsive buying may be seen as an exaggerated form of a more normal search for validation through purchasing. Also, pressures from the spread of materialist values and consumer culture over the recent decades can drive people into compulsive shopping.<ref name=\"Dittmar/Halliwell, p. 97\">Dittmar/Halliwell, p. 97</ref>\n\nIn a global context where we are all encouraged to \"shop till we drop\"—compulsive shopping inevitably poses the further question, \"Minority pathology or Mass problem?\" With advertisements offering not so much products as narratives (of success, glamour) to identify with, compulsive buying may seem only an extreme aspect of what consumer culture demands from us all.<ref name=\"Dittmar/Halliwell, p. 119\">Dittmar/Halliwell, p. 119</ref>\n\nDiagnostic criteria for compulsive buying have been proposed: \n\n1. Over-preoccupation with buying. \n\n2. Distress or impairment as a result of the activity. \n\n3. Compulsive buying is not limited to hypomanic or manic episodes.\n\nWhile initially triggered by a perhaps mild need to feel special, the failure of compulsive shopping to actually meet such needs may lead to a vicious cycle of escalation, with sufferers experiencing the highs and lows associated with other addictions. The 'high' of the purchasing may be followed by a sense of disappointment, and of guilt, precipitating a further cycle of impulse buying. With the now addicted person increasingly feeling negative emotions like anger and stress, they may attempt to self-medicate through further purchases, followed again by regret or depression once they return home, leading to an urge for buying more.\n\nAs debt grows, the compulsive shopping may become a more secretive act. At the point where bought goods are hidden or destroyed, because the person concerned feels so ashamed of their addiction, the price of the addiction in mental, financial and emotional terms becomes even higher.\n\nThe consequences of compulsive buying, which may persist long after a spree, can be devastating, with marriages, long-term relationships, and jobs all feeling the strain. Further problems can include ruined credit history, theft or defalcation of money, defaulted loans, general financial trouble and in some cases bankruptcy or extreme debt, as well as anxiety and a sense of life spiraling out of control. The resulting stress can lead to physical health problems and ruined relationships, or even suicide.\n\nTreatment involves becoming conscious of the addiction through studying, therapy and group work. \nResearch done by Michel Lejoyeux and Aviv Weinstein suggests that the best possible treatment for CBD is through cognitive behavioral therapy. They suggest that a patient first be \"evaluated for psychiatric comorbidity, especially with depression, so that appropriate pharmacological treatment can be instituted.\" Their research indicates that patients who received cognitive behavioral therapy over 10 weeks had reduced episodes of compulsive buying and spent less time shopping as opposed to patients who did not receive this treatment (251).\n\nLejoyeux and Weinstein also write about pharmacological treatment and studies that question the use of drugs on CB. They declare \"few controlled studies have assessed the effects of pharmacological treatment on compulsive buying, and none have shown any medication to be effective.\" (252) The most effective treatment is to attend therapy and group work in order to prevent continuation of this addiction.\n\nSelective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as fluvoxamine and citalopram may be useful in the treatment of CBD, although current evidence is mixed. Opioid antagonists such as naltrexone and nalmefene are promising potential treatments for CBD. A review concluded that evidence is limited and insufficient to support their use at present, however. Naltrexone and nalmefene have also shown effectiveness in the treatment of gambling addiction, an associated disorder.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37886950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37886950", "title": "Culture and social cognition", "text": "Culture and social cognition\n\nCulture & Social Cognition is the relationship between human culture and human cognitive capabilities. Cultural cognitive evolution proposes that humans’ unique cognitive capacities are not solely due to biological inheritance, but are in fact due in large part to cultural transmission and evolution (Tomasello, 1999). Modern humans and great apes are separated evolutionarily by about six million years. Proponents of cultural evolution argue that this would not have been enough time for humans to develop the advanced cognitive capabilities required to create tools, language, and build societies through biological evolution. Biological evolution could not have individually produced each of these cognitive capabilities within that period of time. Instead, humans must have evolved the capacity to learn through cultural transmission (Tomasello, 1999). This provides a more plausible explanation that would fit within the given time frame. Instead of having to biologically account for each cognitive mechanism that distinguishes modern humans from previous relatives, one would only have to account for one significant biological adaptation for cultural learning. According to this view, the ability to learn through cultural transmission is what distinguishes humans from other primates (Tomasello, 1999). Cultural learning allows humans to build on existing knowledge and make collective advancements, also known as the “ratchet effect”. The ratchet effect simply refers to the way in which humans continuously add on to existing knowledge through modifications and improvements. This unique ability distinguishes humans from related primates, who do not seem to build collaborative knowledge over time. Instead, primates seem to build individual knowledge, in which the expertise of one animal is not built on by others, and does not progress across time.\n\nHuman cultural learning involves:\nCultural learning is made possible by a deep understanding of social cognition. Humans have the unique capacity to identify and relate to others and view them as intentional beings. Humans are able to understand that others have intentions, goals, desires, and beliefs. It is this deep understanding, this cognitive adaptation, that allows humans to learn from and with others through cultural transmission (Tomasello, 1999).\n\nPrimates show distinct characteristics of social cognition in comparison to mammals. Mammals are able to identify members of their species, understand basic kinships and basic social hierarchies, make predictions about others’ behavior based on emotion and movement, and engage in social learning (Tomasello, 1999). Primates, however, show a more extensive understanding of these concepts. Primates not only understand kinship and social hierarchies, but they also have an understanding of relational categories. That is, primates are able to understand social relations that extend beyond their individual interaction with others. Mammals are able to form direct relationships based on social hierarchies, but primates have an understanding of social hierarchies and relationships that extend beyond them personally. Researchers believe that this understanding of relational categories might have been the evolutionary precursor to humans’ deeper understanding of desires, beliefs, and goals underlying causal relationships, and thereby allowing humans to relate to and understand other individuals, making way for cultural evolution (Tomasello, 1999).\n\nAlthough it is now believed that non-human primates such as chimpanzees have some limited understanding of others as intentional beings, it is clear that these understanding are not as deep as human understanding of others as intentional agents. Chimpanzees, for example, demonstrated an ability to think about what others see, and predict behavior based on these beliefs in several studies conducted by Tomasello and Hare (2003). For example, subordinate chimpanzees in one experiment avoided food that they knew the dominant chimpanzee could see, but sought food that the dominant chimpanzee could not see due to a physical barrier. In another experiment, subordinate chimpanzees made decisions about approaching food based on whether or not the dominant chimpanzee had seen the human researcher place the food behind the barrier. Chimpanzees were also found to react differently to humans who were unwilling versus unable to provide food (teasing the chimpanzee with food, or pretending to have an accident with it), thereby showing some ability to discriminate intentionality.\n\nDogs have also shown some interesting but limited abilities at social cognition in a series of studies by Hare and Tomasello (2005). Dogs have the ability to read human social cues, even to a greater extent than chimpanzees. Dogs are able to respond to human pointing, the human gaze, and subtle human nods without training. Researchers now believe that these abilities are the result of convergent evolution between humans and dogs through domestication. Research with domesticated foxes has shown that the likely mechanism for this convergent evolution was the selection of tame behavior in dogs. This finding suggests that perhaps humans had to evolve a propensity to cooperate before cultural evolution was able to take place (Hare & Tomasello, 2005).\n\nSociogenesis refers to collaborative inventiveness. It is the process by which two or more humans collectively interact and invent something new which could not have been developed by one individual alone, such as language and mathematics (Tomasello, 1999). Sociogenesis can occur across time, or simultaneously (Tomasello, 1999). Socigenesis across times occurs through the ratchet effect, when one individual modifies something they had previously learned through others. Over time, ideas, tools, and language advance. Simultaneous sociogenesis occurs when two or more individuals work together at the same time and develop something new.\n\nIn response to the nature versus nurture and learned versus innate debate, proponents of cultural evolution argue that cognitive psychology must take into account historical processes when studying and discussion cognition (Tomasello, 1999). For example, the similarities between languages have led many researchers to decry that language or aspects of language must be innate. The extreme variability in math and counting systems across cultures has prevented similar conclusions for math. However, Tomasello argues that if you look at these concepts with historical processes in mind, another plausible explanation could be that language, but not math, developed before people split into different populations. Math developed only after such split, and because the cultural needs of these people differed, differential counting and mathematical systems resulted. The critique is that categorizing concepts as innate or learned does not tell us anything about the process by which they originally developed.\n\n Hare, B., & Tomasello, M. (2005). Human-like social skills in dogs? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, Vol. 9 (9), 439-444.\n"}
{"id": "43656260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43656260", "title": "Damianos Sotheby's International Realty", "text": "Damianos Sotheby's International Realty\n\nDamianos Sotheby’s International Realty is a luxury Bahamas real estate firm founded in 1945 by Nicholas G. Damianos. This Bahamian company was originally named Damianos Realty, but had a name change when they acquired the Sotheby's International Realty franchise in 2005. Damianos Sotheby’s International Realty is a member of the Bahamas Real Estate Association and the Bahamas MLS.\n\nSotheby's Auction House was founded back in 1744 in London originally as an auctioneer of books. In 1976 Sotheby's International Realty was founded. The company operates as a franchise focusing on brokering and marketing of luxury real estate.\n\nIn February 2004, Realogy Holdings (NYSE: RLGY), a real estate franchising and provider of real estate brokerage entered into a long-term alliance with Sotheby’s, the operator of the Auction House. The agreement provided for the licensing of the \"Sotheby’s International Realty\" name and the development of a full franchise system.\n\nAs of the end of 2013, the Sotheby’s International Realty network had more than 14,500 sales associates located in 700 offices in 52 countries and territories worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "10986623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10986623", "title": "Danka.pk", "text": "Danka.pk\n\nDanka is a free cultural guide and network in Pakistan, and a strong and independent tool to organize the communication of the cultural events in order to inform the public and establish the essential link between cultural life and public. \n\nThe name “Danka” has been derived from a word in Urdu and Hindi meaning drum used for announcement, usually used in the context of announcing something with a drum. In older days, the kings’ messengers used to make a public announcement by gathering people at one place by beating the drums.\nDanka aspires to develop a cultural networking spirit, i.e. active co-operation between artists, organizers and the public and cultural management to improve quality of the events, their communication and their organization. From the beginning on it has been an objective to provide the widest range of cultural activities in Pakistan. \n\nThe cultural platform, Danka was founded in 2005 as not-for-profit social initiative within the circle of the cultural center “Lahore Chitrkar”, a famous meeting point for artists and musicians back then. It was started with support of the Austrian NGO “proLoka” which designed it as a volunteer project and has been accompanied since then by the same organization. \n\nDanka is mainly a volunteer effort, and depends on the contribution of people sharing the same objectives. As such almost a hundred Danka volunteers have joined Danka since the start. Some of these volunteers were from abroad, some even came especially to Pakistan to work for Danka. Danka has a tradition of employing civil servants from Austria’s auslandsdienst.at\n\nAs such the platform was not limited to event-listing only, but also of locations where the events take place and the artists performing and it quickly became a networking and management effort dedicated to assist the cultural organizers and artists in their needs. \n\nIn 2011 proLoka developed an entirely new Danka portal, replacing the original website that had grown piece-by-piece, through contribution from volunteers, over the years. The new portal reflects Danka’s strong networking approach where the events uploaded are automatically linked to the venues were they take place and the artists’ pages list upcoming performances as well as their past events.\n\nToday Danka’s activities range from event management, cultural restoration, exchange programmes, performing art classes and technical assistance to consultancy and marketing.\n\nIn 2011, Danka employed a more proactive approach by launching new projects supported by Danka itself i addition to - as so far - focusing on the communication and promotion of events. \n\nDanka Trips\nDanka Trips is a platform that offers a chance to experience the rich culture of Pakistan by visiting various culturally significant spots in person. The project facilitates guided tours to different cultural centres within Pakistan, at subsidized rates, with an aim of cultural restoration and promotion at a collective level.\n\nWomen in Culture\nWomen in culture seeks to facilitate the involvement of women in cultural activities through a two-pronged strategy aiming to increase the number of women participation as the audience of art and cultural events as well as to develop and promote the profiles of female artists in Pakistan.\n\nDanka Scholar\nDanka is working on the launch of another project, Danka Scholar which will provide a platform for people from all walks of life to get an expertise in various performing art forms, at subsidized rates, under the tutelage of renowned musicians, dancers and artists who have been acknowledged as the gurus of the performing arts for many years.\n\nSince the introduction of these new activities, it became more common to refer to Danka as “Pakistan’s Cultural Guide” instead of the previously used term “Pakistan’s Cultural Events Guide”.\n\nWhile having a focal point in Lahore, its birthplace and the cultural center of Pakistan, Danka is operational all over Pakistan, with an added focus on the other two major cities of Karachi and Islamabad. Events are listed from any city in Pakistan and artist profiles are as diverse as Lahori Kathak Dancers to Painter vom Khyber Agency. \n\n"}
{"id": "8266740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8266740", "title": "Defining Issues Test", "text": "Defining Issues Test\n\nThe Defining Issues Test or the DIT is a component model of moral development devised by James Rest in 1974. The University of Minnesota formally established the Center for the Study of Ethical Development as a vehicle for research around this test in 1982.\n\nThe DIT uses a Likert-type scale to give quantitative ratings and rankings to issues surrounding five different moral dilemmas, or stories. Specifically, respondents rate 12 issues in terms of their importance to the corresponding dilemma and then rank the four most important issues. The issue statements that respondents respond to are not fully developed stances which fall on one side or another of the presented dilemma. Rather, they are conceptualized as fragments of reasoning, to which respondents must project meaning. Meaning is projected by means of moral reasoning schemas (each of which is explained below). A schema is a mental representation of stimuli that has previously been encountered, which allows one to make sense of newly experienced, but related, stimuli. So, when a respondent reads an issue statement that both makes sense to them, as well as triggers a preferred schema, that statement is given a high rating and ranking. Conversely, when a respondent reads an issue statement that is either construed as nonsensical or overly simplistic, the item receives a low rating. Patterns of ratings and rankings reveal information about three specific schemas of moral reasoning: the Personal Interests Schema, the Maintaining Norms Schema and the Postconventional Schema. \n\nThe Personal Interests Schema is regarded as the least developmentally advanced level of moral reasoning. In operating primarily at the Personal Interests level, the respondent takes into consideration what the protagonist of the story, or those close to the protagonist, has to gain or lose. The Maintaining Norms Schema is considered more advanced than the Personal Interests Schema, as it emphasizes more than the individual. \n\nAt the Maintaining Norms reasoning level, law and authority are important, as each of these helps to uphold social order, which is paramount to this schema. So, a respondent who is predominantly using this schema will take into consideration what needs to be done in order to be compliant with the social order of society. Finally, the Postconventional Schema is regarded as the most developmentally advanced. \n\nAt the Postconventional reasoning level, laws are not simply blindly accepted (as with the Maintaining Norms Schema), but are scrutinized in order to ensure society-wide benefit. So, a respondent who is primarily using this schema will focus on what is best for society as a whole. For example, the Civil Rights movement was a product of Postconventional reasoning, as followers were most concerned with the society-wide effects of (in)equality. \n\nThough an individual may rely more heavily on one of the aforementioned schemas, moral reasoning is typically informed, to varying degrees, by each of the schemas.\n\nOne of the Defining Issues Test's original purposes was to assess the transition of moral development from adolescence to adulthood. In 1999 the test was revised in the DIT-2 for brevity, clarity and more powerful validity criteria.\n\nThe DIT has been dubbed \"Neo-Kohlbergian\" by its constituents as it emphasizes cognition, personal construction, development and postconventional moral thinking - reflective of the work by Lawrence Kohlberg and his stages of moral development.\n\n"}
{"id": "44290167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44290167", "title": "Ede-Enu", "text": "Ede-Enu\n\nEde-Enu (also known as Edenu-EdeOballa) is an autonomous community within the Nsukka Local Government Area (LGA) in Enugu State, Nigeria.\n\nEde-Enu comprises four (4) sub-communities: Owerre, Umunagu, Eturu and Ezema. Each of these sub-communities is made up of villages.The villages are headed by the most eldest man each known as Onyishi in Nsukka culture.\n\nEturu for instance comprises the following Villages: Umuezegbara, Isamelu, Umude, Amuzu and Ala Ndim. Currently, the Onyishi, Umuezegbara Village is Mazi Egwuja Asogwa.\n\nEde-Enu community being an autonomous community has its own traditional ruler: Igwe HRH R. O. Ugwuja.\n"}
{"id": "23600338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23600338", "title": "Elliott Cresson Medal", "text": "Elliott Cresson Medal\n\nThe Elliott Cresson Medal, also known as the Elliott Cresson Gold Medal, was the highest award given by the Franklin Institute. The award was established by Elliott Cresson, life member of the Franklin Institute, with $1,000 granted in 1848. The endowed award was to be \"for some discovery in the Arts and Sciences, or for the invention or improvement of some useful machine, or for some new process or combination of materials in manufactures, or for ingenuity skill or perfection in workmanship.\" The medal was first awarded in 1875, 21 years after Cresson's death.\n\nThe Franklin Institute continued awarding the medal on an occasional basis until 1998 when they reorganized their endowed awards under one umbrella, The Benjamin Franklin Awards. A total of 268 Elliott Cresson Medals were given out during the award's lifetime.\n"}
{"id": "1448459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448459", "title": "Ethnopoetics", "text": "Ethnopoetics\n\nEthnopoetics is a method of recording text versions of oral poetry or narrative performances (i.e. verbal lore) that uses poetic lines, verses, and stanzas (instead of prose paragraphs) to capture the formal, poetic performance elements which would otherwise be lost in the written texts. The goal of any ethnopoetic text is to show how the techniques of unique oral performers enhance the aesthetic value of their performances within their specific cultural contexts. Major contributors to ethnopoetic theory include Jerome Rothenberg, Dennis Tedlock, and Dell Hymes. Ethnopoetics is considered a subfield of ethnology, anthropology, folkloristics, stylistics, linguistics, and literature and translation studies.\n\nJerome Rothenberg coined the term ethnopoetics in the 1960s. According to Catherine S. Quick, Rothenberg had recognized that “most translations of Native American oral traditions . . . failed to capture the power and beauty of the oral performances on the written page,” especially when “Western poetic styles” were imposed upon these written texts (1999, 96). Rothenberg’s influence has increased public awareness of the rich narrative and poetic traditions of cultures all over the world.\n\nThe development of ethnopoetics as a separate subfield of study was largely pioneered from the middle of the 20th century by anthropologists and linguists such as Dennis Tedlock and Dell Hymes. Both Tedlock and Hymes used ethnopoetic analysis to do justice to the artistic richness of Native American verbal art, and while they have disagreed on some analytic details, they agree on the fundamental issues and purposes of ethnopoetics.\n\nOn the one hand, Dennis Tedlock argues not only that pauses in oral performances indicate where poetic line breaks should occur in the written texts, which he compares to musical scores, but also that words on the page should be formatted to reflect the more subtle qualities of speech used in oral performances. Tedlock explain his perspective in this way,\nAn ethnopoetic score [or text] not only takes account of the words but silences, changes in loudness and tone of voice, the production of sound effects, and the use of gestures and props. . . . Ethnopoetics remains open to the creative side of performance, valuing features that may be rare or even unique to a particular artist or occasion.\n\nIn other words, Tedlock argues that by visually representing oral performance features in the written texts, ethnopoetic methods more accurately convey the aesthetic qualities of the performance than uniformly formatted text in prose paragraphs ever could. Tedlock himself defines ethnopoetics as “a decentered poetics, an attempt to hear and read the poetries of distant others, outside the Western [poetic] tradition as we know it now.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Dell Hymes believes that even previously dictated texts retain significant structural patterns of poetic repetition that “are the ‘reason why’” storytellers use pauses in their oral performances (1999, 97–98). Hymes’s ethnopoetic theories focus on repetitions in the grammar and syntax of transcribed and translated texts that he suggest can still be analyzed and retranslated. For example, accordingly to folklorist Barre Toelken, the poetic beauty and power of Native American texts like “The Sun's Myth” have been restored “because a dedicated anthropological folklorist and linguist, Dell Hymes, dedicated a good part of his life to resuscitating a dry, written text collected . . . by a long-dead anthropologist [i.e., Franz Boas] and stored away in a dusty volume” (2003, 122). When Hymes retranslated “The Sun’s Myth,” he recovered the poetic and stylistic devices that were used in the original recorded performance, but which had been lost in the myth’s earlier translation by Franz Boas.\n\nHymes’ ethnopoetics revolves around a conception of narratives as primarily organized in terms of \"formal\" and \"aesthetic\"—‘poetic’—patterns, not in terms of content or thematic patterns. Narrative is therefore to be seen as a form of action, of performance, and the meanings it generates are effects of performance. Narratives, seen from this perspective, are organized in lines and in groups of lines (verses, stanzas), and the organization of lines in narratives is a kind of implicit patterning that creates narrative effect. . . . Content, in other words, is an effect of the formal organization of a narrative: What there is to be told emerges out of how it is being told. (Blommaert 2007, 216)\n\nAlso, understanding the native language of oral performers is essential for accurate, ethnopoetic translation of their words into written texts. For example, folklorist Barre Toelken explains that Hymes’s “knowledge of the extant Chinookan languages” helped him to “notice stylistic devices that highlighted certain actions and themes and even performance styles that brought scenes into sharp focus” (2003, 122). In other words, without his knowledge of the native language of oral performers, Hymes could not have placed his ethnopoetic translation of “The Sun’s Myth” within its specific Native American cultural context.\n\nVarious other writers and poets can be said to have contributed to the field of ethnopoetics as an aesthetic movement. For example, Tristan Tzara created calligrams and William Bright worked with the Karuk tribe to preserve their native language. However, within the fields of linguistics, folkloristics, and anthropology, ethnopoetics refers to a particular method of analyzing the linguistic features and syntactical structures of oral literature (such as poetry, myths, narratives, folk tales, ceremonial speeches, etc.) in ways that pay attention to poetic patterns within speech. Overall, then, ethnopoetic methods and theories strive to capture on the written page the unique aesthetic elements of individual cultures’ oral poetry and narrative performance traditions, or what folklorists would call their verbal lore.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "755468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=755468", "title": "Fatal Frame", "text": "Fatal Frame\n\nFatal Frame, titled in Japan and Project Zero in Europe, is a survival horror video game series created and primarily developed by Koei Tecmo (originally Tecmo), and currently co-owned by Koei Tecmo and Nintendo. Debuting in 2001 with the first entry in the series for the PlayStation 2, the series consists of five main entries. The series is set in 1980s Japan, with each entry focusing on a location beset by hostile supernatural events. In each scenario, the characters involved in the present investigation use Camera Obscura, objects created by Dr. Kunihiko Asou that can capture and pacify spirits. The series draws on staple elements of Japanese horror, and is noted for its frequent use of female protagonists.\n\nThe series was conceived by Makoto Shibata and Keisuke Kikuchi. After being introduced to the PlayStation 2 hardware and after the success of the \"Silent Hill\" series, the pair decided to develop a horror series inspired by Shibata's own spiritual experiences and popular Japanese horror films of the time. Their main goal was to make the most frightening game experience possible. Later installments have refined the gameplay mechanics while also adding more complex narrative elements.\n\nThe series has received critical acclaim, being ranked alongside other horror series including \"Resident Evil\" and \"Silent Hill\" series, while individual games have been ranked among the best survival horror games in existence. While the sales of individual games have never been high, the series as a whole has sold over one million copies worldwide as of April 2014. Multiple Japanese media adaptations have been made.\n\nAs of 2014, the series consists of five mainline video games, not counting remakes, re-releases and spin-offs. The only main \"Fatal Frame\" title yet to be released in the west is the fourth entry. While a European release was planned, it was eventually cancelled, and no North American release was planned. A fan translation of the fourth game was released in 2010, which enabled the game to be played on any Wii system. Outside their international releases, the \"Fatal Frame\" games are not numbered. This was due to the series' creators considering each entry to be a standalone game, with minimal connections to previous titles. The \"Fatal Frame\" IP is currently co-owned by Koei Tecmo and Nintendo, resulting in series titles since the fourth game only appearing on Nintendo consoles.\n\nThe titular first entry in the series was released on the PlayStation 2 in 2001 in Japan and 2002 in North America and Europe. The second game, \"\", was released again for PlayStation 2 in 2003 in Japan and North America, and 2004 in Europe. \"\" likewise released for the PlayStation 2 in 2005 for Japan and North America, and 2006 in Europe. In 2008, \"\" released in Japan for the Wii, and has not been released overseas. The fifth title, \"\", was released for the Wii U in 2014 in Japan and 2015 in North America, Europe and Australia.\n\nThe first two titles have received expanded re-releases. An expanded port of the original game was released for the Xbox in 2002 in Japan and 2003 in Western territories. It featured additional story elements, gameplay refinements and a new difficulty setting. For \"Crimson Butterfly\", a \"Director's Cut\" for the Xbox was released in 2004 in Japan and North America, and 2005 in Europe. A new for the Wii was released in Japan and Europe in 2012.\n\nA mobile title, \"Real Zero\", was released in 2004 for FOMA and DoCoMo mobile devices. The game involves users taking pictures of their environments and superimposing ghost images somewhere in the frame. Seventy different ghosts were available to collect, with each new ghost triggering the sending of an email to provide clues for finding the next ghost or other messages. The game's service was terminated in 2011. A spin-off for the Nintendo 3DS, \"Spirit Camera\", was released in all regions in 2012. The story follows a girl named Maya, who is trapped in a haunted house controlled by a mysterious woman in black, and seeks to escape the woman's control.\n\nTo commemorate the release of \"Crimson Butterfly\", a special interactive attraction titled \"Zero4D\" opened in 2004. It featured movie scenes designed by the same team behind the CGI movies for \"Crimson Butterfly\". A manga based on the series written by Shin Kibayashi, \"Fatal Frame: Shadow Priestess\", was released in both Japanese and English through DeNA's website in July 2014. A Japanese live-action movie directed by Mari Asato for Kadokawa Pictures was released in cinemas in 2014. The novel it was based on, \"Fatal Frame: A Curse Affecting Only Girls\" by Eiji Ohtsuka, was released a few months prior to the movie.\n\nA Hollywood film adaptation of the first game, \"Fatal Frame\", was announced in 2003. Robert Fyvolent and Mark R. Brinker were hired as the project's writers, and John Rogers was hired as its producer. The title was being produced by DreamWorks. Later that year, it was announced that Steven Spielberg was helping Rogers to polish the game's script, and that sessions to find a director and cast the movie would follow. In 2014 alongside the formal announcement of \"Maiden of Black Water\", it was confirmed that the Hollywood film was still planned. Now produced by Samuel Hadida, it is set to begin production after the completion and release of the game.\n\nThe gameplay has remained consistent through the series' lifetime. Each environment is filled with ghosts, with separate games having different attack behaviors for them. While navigating these environments, the main character's only means of defense is the Camera Obscura, which can be used to damage ghosts, capturing them on film and pacifying them. When using the camera, the view switches from a third-person to a first-person perspective. The camera locks onto a ghost, with the amount of damage dealt depending on how much of a focus the Camera Obscura has on the ghost, but ghosts fade in and out of existence, making focusing more challenging. Shots of varying closeness and angles also affect how much damage the ghost takes. The most damaging is a \"fatal frame\", which hits a ghost weak spot. A ghost's captured spirit energy is converted into points, which can be used to buy items to upgrade the Camera Obscura and obtain more powerful film.\n\nIn addition to hostile ghosts, there are passive ghosts encountered in parts of the environment: if they are not caught on film at once, they vanish from the rest of the game. Ghosts captured on film are added to a list, which reveals a ghost's past. For the first three games, navigation is done using semi-fixed third-person view of environments, with characters moving at a slow pace through them. For \"Mask of the Lunar Eclipse\" and later entries, the camera perspective was altered to a third-person over-the-shoulder view and character movement was increased a little to speed up gameplay. The ability to either dodge or break free from a ghost's grip was added in \"Maiden of Black Water\".\n\nThe \"Fatal Frame / Project Zero\" series is set in the 1980s, before mobile phones were commonly used in Japan. Aside from a few recurring characters, each game has a self-contained story focusing on a different supernatural threat. The main unifying factor is navigating through haunted locations struck by a supernatural catastrophe, with a recurring setting being abandoned Japanese mansions. Recurring characters are: Dr. Kunihiko Asou, an occultist who lived in the 1800s and created objects such as the Camera Obscura, and Miku Hinasaki, the protagonist of \"Fatal Frame\" and \"The Tormented\", who also appears in \"Maiden of Black Water\" as one of the main characters' missing mother. A second recurring feature is the exclusive or frequent use of female characters in the leading role. This was explained as being due to the overall tone of the series: since traditional violence was not used, it was better to use a female character to convey this. It was also felt that women were more spiritually aware than men. Another recurring concept is a pseudo-physical location bridging the physical and spiritual worlds, inspired by a tanka written by Japanese poet Taeko Kuzuhara: these were represented by the Hellish Abyss in \"Crimson Butterfly\" and the lake in \"Maiden of Black Water\".\n\nThe first chronological entry in the series, \"Mask of the Lunar Eclipse\", takes place in 1980. The story revolves around three girls who travel back to the fictional Rougetsu Island to recover memories of being kidnapped while they lived there ten years before. On the island, they must investigate the secrets behind a local ritual dance and an ancient mask related to the ritual. Then there's \"Fatal Frame\" and \"Crimson Butterfly\", which is set two years after the first game. \"The Tormented\" is set some months after the second game's events. \"Maiden of Black Water\" is set at an unspecified date after the third game. It takes place around the fictional Mount Hikami, a site infamous for suicides and rituals associated with local bodies of water. The main protagonists are each drawn to the mountain intent on rescuing someone, confronting hostile ghosts along the way.\n\nThe concept for \"Fatal Frame / Project Zero\" first occurred by Makoto Shibata. The idea occurred after the development of \"\". Inspired by his own experiences of supernatural events, and heartened by the success of the \"Silent Hill\" series, Shibata and Keisuke Kikuchi set to work on creating the basics for the game. Shibata was in charge of the majority of game and scenario development, while Kikuchi was in charge of general oversight. When creating the atmosphere, the team watched both high and low-budget Japanese horror films, and war films. One of their goals was to make the game as scary as possible. The Camera Obscura was not in the initial discussions between Shibata and Kikuchi, with the original idea being that ghosts would be avoided and repelled by light. Ultimately, they decided to have a type of offensive power, which resulted in the Camera's creation. Kikuchi was initially opposed to the idea, but saw that it fitted very well into the game's context as development progressed. The first game was marketed in the west as being based on a true story, and while this was not accurate, the story of \"Fatal Frame\" was inspired by both real locations noted for apparent haunting and local ghost-related folklore.\n\nFor \"Crimson Butterfly\", the team toned down the frightening aspects so players would be willing to complete a playthrough, alongside creating a stronger story. The story was inspired by a dream Shibata had, with the interpretive nature of the game's events being inspired by his feelings about the dream. For \"The Tormented\", they decided to focus on horror elements emerging out of everyday life, focusing on the effects of dreams upon reality. \"Mask of the Lunar Eclipse\" was co-produced by Koei Tecmo, Nintendo and Grasshopper Manufacture, with Grasshopper Manufacture's Goichi Suda acting as a co-director with Shibata. The gameplay was constructed around the Wii hardware, with the main concept being for players to feel the fear physically. The entire concept occurred by Kikuchi when he saw the specifications for the Wii. \"Maiden of Black Water\" originated when Kikuchi saw the Wii U hardware, and was co-produced by Koei Tecmo and Nintendo. As they wanted to bring more people into the series, they included a stronger narrative and new gameplay elements to make the experience easier for newcomers.\n\nSince \"Crimson Butterfly\", theme songs have been created for each title, primarily performed by Japanese singer Tsuki Amano. The development team wanted an image song for \"Crimson Butterfly\", and Shibata found the then-newly debuted Amano in the Japanese independent community. Amano created the song using documents on the game's story, themes and setting. Amano returned multiple times to create theme songs for \"The Tormented\", \"Mask of the Lunar Eclipse\", and a new theme song for the Wii remake of \"Crimson Butterfly\". She again returned for \"Maiden of Black Water\", and a second new singer AnJu contributed a second theme song to the title.\n\nIn Japan, each title in the \"Fatal Frame / Project Zero\" series has seen modest success: the first game's lifetime sales are the lowest in the series, while \"Mask of the Lunar Eclipse\" currently stands as the best-selling title in the series to date. Since its debut in 2001, the \"Fatal Frame\" series has sold 1.3 million copies worldwide.\n\nMultiple video game journalists have singled out the series. IGN's Clara Barraza, in an article on the evolution of the survival horror genre, said that the first game \"broke away from the use of weapons like guns and planks of wood to switch it up and try something completely different\", praising the use of the Camera Obscura in evoking a sense of fear and calling the game \"[a] unique spin on the genre\". In a different article for IGN on the history of survival horror, editor Travis Fahs stated that the series gave a much-needed boost to the genre during a period of decline in the early 2000s, highlighting the Japanese horror aesthetic as a selling point that attracted players in tandem with the popularity of \"The Ring\". As part of an interview with the series' creators in 2006, GameSpy writer Christian Nutt referred to it as one of the three best-known horror video game series alongside \"Resident Evil\" and \"Silent Hill\". Similarly, as part of a review of \"Maiden of Black Water\", Dennis Scimeca of \"The Daily Dot\" ranked the \"Fatal Frame\" series alongside \"Resident Evil\" and \"Silent Hill\". In an article on the series, Kotaku writer Richard Eisenbeis said that \"Fatal Frame\" succeeded in drawing his attention when most other horror games did not, generally praising the settings and the \"master stroke\" of the Camera Obscura in gameplay. In an interview, \"\" art leader Dave Matthews stated that the gameplay of \"F.E.A.R. 2\" was influenced by the \"Fatal Frame\" series. In multiple articles, \"Crimson Butterfly\" has been singled out by video game publications and industry developers as one of the scariest games of the horror genre in general.\n"}
{"id": "10781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10781", "title": "Film festival", "text": "Film festival\n\nA film festival is an organized, extended presentation of films in one or more cinemas or screening venues, usually in a single city or region. Increasingly, film festivals show some films outdoors. Films may be of recent date and, depending upon the festival's focus, can include international and domestic releases. Some festivals focus on a specific film-maker or genre (e.g., film noir) or subject matter (e.g., horror film festivals). A number of film festivals specialise in short films of a defined maximum length. Film festivals are typically annual events. Some film historians, including Jerry Beck, do not consider film festivals official releases of film.\n\nThe most prestigious film festivals in the world are generally considered to be Cannes, Berlin, and Venice. These festivals are sometimes called the \"Big Three.\" The Toronto International Film Festival is North America's most popular festival in terms of attendance; \"Time\" wrote it had \"grown from its place as the most influential fall film festival to the most influential film festival, period.\" The Venice Film Festival is the oldest film festival in the world.\n\nVenice held the first major film festival in 1932. Other major and old film festivals of the world include:\n\nThe Venice Film Festival in Italy began in 1932, and is the oldest film festival still running. Raindance Film Festival is the UK's largest celebration of independent film-making, and takes place in London in October.\n\nMainland Europe's biggest independent film festival is ÉCU The European Independent Film Festival, that started in 2006 and takes place every spring in Paris, France. Edinburgh International Film Festival is the longest running festival in Great Britain.\n\nAustralia's first and longest running film festival is the Melbourne International Film Festival (1952), followed by the Sydney Film Festival (1954).\n\nNorth America's first and longest running short film festival is the Yorkton Film Festival, established in 1947. The first film festival in the United States was the Columbus International Film & Video Festival, also known as The Chris Awards, held in 1953. According to the Film Arts Foundation in San Francisco, \"\"The Chris Awards\" (is) one of the most prestigious documentary, educational, business and informational competitions in the U.S; (it is) the oldest of its kind in North America and celebrating its 54th year.\" It was followed four years later by the San Francisco International Film Festival, held in March 1957, which emphasized feature-length dramatic films. The festival played a major role in introducing foreign films to American audiences. Films in the first year included Akira Kurosawa's \"Throne of Blood\" and Satyajit Ray's \"Pather Panchali\".\n\nToday, thousands of film festivals take place around the world—from high-profile festivals such as Sundance Film Festival and Slamdance Film Festival (Park City, Utah), to horror festivals such as Terror Film Festival (Philadelphia), and the Park City Film Music Festival, the first U.S. film festival dedicated to honoring music in film.\n\nFilm Funding competitions such as Writers and Filmmakers were introduced when the cost of production could be lowered significantly and internet technology allowed for the collaboration of film production.\n\nAlthough there are notable for-profit festivals such as SXSW, most festivals operate on a nonprofit membership-based model, with a combination of ticket sales, membership fees, and corporate sponsorship constituting the majority of revenue. Unlike other arts nonprofits (performing arts, museums, etc.), film festivals typically receive few donations from the general public and are occasionally organized as nonprofit business associations instead of public charities. Film industry members often have significant curatorial input, and corporate sponsors are given opportunities to promote their brand to festival audiences in exchange for cash contributions. Private parties, often to raise investments for film projects, constitute significant \"fringe\" events. Larger festivals maintain year-round staffs often engaging in community and charitable projects outside festival season.\n\nWhile entries from established filmmakers are usually considered pluses by the organizers, most festivals require new or relatively unknown filmmakers to pay an entry fee to have their works considered for screening. This is especially so in larger film festivals, such as the Cannes Film Festival, Toronto International Film Festival, Sundance Film Festival, South by Southwest, Montreal World Film Festival, and even smaller \"boutique\" festivals such as the Miami International Film Festival, British Urban Film Festival in London and Mumbai Women's International Film Festival in India.\n\nOn the other hand, some festivals—usually those accepting fewer films, and perhaps not attracting as many \"big names\" in their audiences as do Sundance and Telluride—require no entry fee. Rotterdam Film Festival, Mumbai Film Festival, and many smaller film festivals in the United States (the Stony Brook Film Festival on Long Island, the Northwest Filmmakers' Festival, and the Sicilian Film Festival in Miami), are examples.\nThe Portland International Film Festival charges an entry fee, but waives it for filmmakers from the Northwestern United States, and some others with regional focuses have similar approaches.\n\nSeveral film festival submission portal websites exist to streamline filmmakers' entries into multiple festivals. They provide databases of festival calls for entry and offer filmmakers a convenient \"describe once, submit many\" service.\n\nThe core tradition of film festivals is competition, that is, the consideration of films with the intention of judging which are most deserving of various forms of recognition. In contrast to those films, some festivals may screen (i.e., project onto a movie screen before an audience) some films without treating them as part of the competition; the films are said to be \"screened out...\" (or \"outside...\") \"of competition\".\n\nThe three most prestigious film festivals are generally considered to be Cannes, Berlin, and Venice. These festivals are sometimes called the \"Big Three.\" Polish director Krzysztof Kieślowski's \"The Three Colors Trilogy\" were each made for these festivals, with \"\" for Venice, \"\" for Berlin, and \"\" for Cannes.\n\nThe Toronto International Film Festival is North America's most popular festival. \"Time\" wrote it had \"grown from its place as the most influential fall film festival to the most influential film festival, period.\" Seattle International Film Festival is credited as being the largest film festival in the USA, regularly showing over 400 films in a month across the city. The Sundance Film Festival, Tribeca Film Festival, South by Southwest, New York Film Festival, Woodstock Film Festival, Montreal World Film Festival, Regina international film festival and awards (RIFFA) and Vancouver International Film Festival are also major North American festivals.\n\nThe festivals in Berlin, Cairo, Cannes, Goa, Karlovy Vary, Locarno, Mar del Plata, Montreal, Moscow, San Sebastián, Shanghai, Tallinn, Tokyo, Venice, and Warsaw are accredited by the International Federation of Film Producers Associations (FIAPF) in the category of competitive feature films.\n\nAnn Arbor Film Festival started in 1963. It is the oldest continually operated experimental film festival in North America, and has become one of the premiere film festivals for independent and, primarily, experimental filmmakers to showcase work.\n\nIn the US, Telluride Film Festival, Sundance Film Festival, Austin Film Festival, Austin's South by Southwest, New York City's Tribeca Film Festival and Slamdance Film Festival are all considered significant festivals for independent film. The Zero Film Festival is significant as the first and only festival exclusive to self-financed filmmakers. The biggest independent film festival in the UK is Raindance Film Festival.\n\nThe San Francisco International Film Festival, founded by Irving \"Bud\" Levin started in 1957, is the oldest continuously annual film festival in the United States. It highlights current trends in international filmmaking and video production with an emphasis on work that has not yet secured U.S. distribution.\n\nThe Toronto International Film Festival, founded by Bill Marshall, Henk Van der Kolk and Dusty Cohl, is regarded as North America's most major and most prestigious film festival, and is the most widely attended.\n\nThe Sundance film festival founded by Sterling Van Wagenen (then head of Wildwood, Robert Redford's company), John Earle, and Cirina Hampton Catania (both serving on the Utah Film Commission at the time) is a major festival for independent film.\n\nThe Woodstock Film Festival was launched in 2000 by filmmakers Meira Blaustein and Laurent Rejto with the goal to bring high quality independent film to the Hudson Valley region of New York. Indiewire has named the Woodstock Film Festival among the top 50 independent film festivals worldwide.\n\nThe Regina International Film Festival and Awards (RIFFA) founded by John Thimothy, one of the top leading international film festivals in western Canada (Regina, Saskatchewan) represented 92 countries in 2015 festival . RIFFA annual Award show and red carpet arrival event is getting noticed in the contemporary film and fashion industries in Western Canada.\n\nToronto's Hot Docs founded by filmmaker Paul Jay, is the leading North American documentary film festival. Toronto also has the largest amount of film festivals in the world, ranging from cultural, independent, and historic films. The largest festival, in terms of the number of feature productions, is the Seattle International Film Festival, which screens 270 features, and approximately 150 short films. The Whistler Film Festival gets bigger every year, with more than 80 screenings and an industry summit.\n\nThe Cartagena Film Festival, founded by Victor Nieto in 1960, is the oldest film festival in Latin America. The Festival de Gramado (or Gramado Film Festival) Gramado, Brazil, along with the Guadalajara International Film Festival in Guadalajara, the Morelia International Film Festival in Morelia, Michoacan Mexico, and the Los Cabos International Film Festival founded by Scott Cross (film director), Sean Cross, and Eduardo Sanchez Navarro, in Los Cabos Baja Sur Mexico are considered the most important film festivals of Latin America. In 2015, Variety called the Los Cabos International Film Festival the \"Cannes of Latin America\". The Huelva Ibero-American Film Festival has been held since 1975 in that Spanish city.\n\nThe Expresión en Corto International Film Festival is the largest competitive film festival in Mexico. It specializes in emerging talent, and is held in the last week of each July in the two colonial cities of San Miguel de Allende and Guanajuato. Oaxaca Film Fest. For Spanish-speaking countries, the Dominican International Film Festival takes place annually in Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic. The Valdivia International Film Festival is held annually in the city of Valdivia. It is arguable the most important film festival in Chile. There is also Filmambiente, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, an international festival on environmental films and videos.\n\nThe Havana Film Festival was founded in 1979 and is the oldest continuous annual film festival in the Caribbean. Its focus is on Latin American cinema. The Trinidad and Tobago Film Festival, founded in 2006, is dedicated to screening the newest films from the English-, Spanish, French- and Dutch-speaking Caribbean, as well as the region's diaspora. It also seeks to facilitate the growth of Caribbean cinema by offering a wide-ranging industry programme and networking opportunities.\n\nMany film festivals are dedicated exclusively to animation.\n\n\nA variety of regional festivals happen in various countries. Austin Film Festival is accredited by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, which makes all their jury award-winning narrative short and animated short films eligible for an Academy Award.\n\nDelhi International Film Festival organised by The Social Circle (A society set up in 2011, to serve a cause, formed as a step towards inclusiveness, with the primary aim of creating social awareness, pursues the mission of holistic community development.) is a six-day event held at Delhi, in association with New Delhi Municipal Council, Information & Broadcasting Ministry and Government of Delhi, supported by Ministry of culture and Ministry of Tourism. DIFF being one of its kind, has played an important role in the promotion of Indian Cinema, Art and Culture by organizing Indian programs in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Ukraine, Egypt, Tunisia, Jordan, Israel, USA and last year in association with the Information & Broadcasting Ministry and the Embassy of India in Morocco. This festival is hailed as one of the best Film Festivals in India, Asia and around the world.\n\nNotable Asian film festivals include the Delhi International Film Festival organized in New Delhi annually ever since 2012, Osian's-Cinefan: Festival of Asian Cinema at New Delhi, which recently expanded to include Arab Cinema, and the Annual Mumbai Film Festival in India, with its 200,000 USD cash prize (www.mumbaifilmfest.com), Toronto Reel Asian International Film Festival, (www.reelasian.com), Mumbai Women's International Film Festival (MWIFF) is an annual film festival in Mumbai featuring films made by women directors and women technicians. and the Hong Kong International Film Festival (HKIFF), Chennai Women's International Film Festival (CWIFF) and Busan International Film Festival (BIFF). International Film Festival of India, the official International film festival organised by Government of India held at Goa every year is a famous film festival. International Film Festival of Kerala organised by Government of Kerala held at Thiruvananthapuram every year in the month of December is the biggest film festival in India in terms of public participation. International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) hosted by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy on behalf of Department of Cultural Affairs, Government of Kerala is a major documentary and short film festival., Kolkata International Film Festival at Kolkata in India, Rafi Peer International Film Festival at Lahore in Pakistan, Jagran Film Festival (JFF), Kolkata International Children's Film Festival and newly started Dehradun International Film Festival at Dehradun, Uttrakhand in India. And at Kochi. it is also newly started International Film Festival.\nBesides that there is Kathmandu International Mountain Film Festival Kathmandu International Mountain Film Festival organized every year at the capital city of Nepal and the heart of the Himalayas.\n\nThere are several significant film festivals held regularly in Africa. The biannual Panafrican Film and Television Festival of Ouagadougou (FESPACO) in Burkina Faso was established in 1969 and accepts for competition only films by African filmmakers and chiefly produced in Africa. The annual Durban International Film Festival in South Africa and Zanzibar International Film Festival in Tanzania have grown in importance for the film and entertainment industry, as they often screen the African premieres of many international films.\n\nThe Sahara International Film Festival, held annually in the Sahrawi refugee camps in western Algeria near the border of Western Sahara, is notable as the only film festival in the world to take place in a refugee camp. The festival has the two-fold aim of providing cultural entertainment and educational opportunities to refugees, and of raising awareness of the plight of the Sahrawi people, who have been exiled from their native Western Sahara for more than three decades.\n\nThe biggest European festival is the Cannes Film Festival in France along with the Berlin and Venice film festivals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6812961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6812961", "title": "Gable hood", "text": "Gable hood\n\nA gable hood, English hood or gable headdress is an English woman's headdress of , so-called because its pointed shape resembles the gable of a house. The contemporary French hood was rounded in outline and unlike the gable hood, less conservative, displaying the front part of the hair.\n\nOriginally a simple pointed hood with decorated side panels called \"lappets\" and a veil at the back, over time the gable hood became a complex construction stiffened with buckram, with a box-shaped back and two tube-shaped hanging veils at 90-degree angles; the hanging veils and lappets could be pinned up in a variety of ways to make complex headdresses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30275324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30275324", "title": "Gerhard Herzberg Canada Gold Medal for Science and Engineering", "text": "Gerhard Herzberg Canada Gold Medal for Science and Engineering\n\nThe Gerhard Herzberg Canada Gold Medal for Science and Engineering is awarded by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada to recognize \"research contributions characterized by both excellence and influence.\" Prior to 2000, NSERC had awarded the Canada Gold Medal for Science and Engineering, before deciding to rename the award to honour Gerhard Herzberg, winner of the 1971 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nThe Herzberg medal is commonly called Canada's top award for science and engineering. It is an individual annual award that recognizes continued excellence and influence in research in either natural sciences or engineering. The award is a gold medal, and the guarantee of $1 million over five years to use for personal research.\n\nNSERC's Canada Gold Medal for Science and Engineering was first awarded in 1991 to Raymond Lemieux, a chemist working at University of Alberta. Mathematician James Arthur from the University of Toronto was the 1999 recipient, the last year before the award was renamed in honour of Gerhard Herzberg, the winner of the 1971 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. NSERC decided to rename the award after Herzberg because they felt he embodied the two main qualities of the award, namely research contributions that are of high quality and influential.\n\nThe Herzberg medal is awarded to a scientist or engineer working at a facility in Canada. It is considered Canada's top award for science and engineering. Eligible facilities include universities, government and private labs. Nominations can be submitted by any Canadian citizen or permanent resident. The winner is chosen by a selection committee representing different scientific disciplines, who make a recommendations to the current NSERC president. The award consists of a gold medal, and the guarantee of at least $1 million to use for research or for establishing research chairs, fellowships or scholarships in the recipients' name.\n\n\"Source\"\n\nFrom 2002 until 2009, three finalists were selected for the Herzberg Medal, and the winner selected from among them. The other two finalists (if it was their first time as a finalist) were awarded NSERC's Award of Excellence.\n"}
{"id": "9135644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9135644", "title": "Gitarzan", "text": "Gitarzan\n\n\"Gitarzan\" is a novelty song released by Ray Stevens in 1969 about a character who lives in a jungle and forms a musical band with his female partner, Jane, and their pet monkey. The song features Tarzan's jungle calls, scat singing, and a funky boogie-woogie, as well as a quote from the song \"Swinging on a Star\", with the line \"Carrying noonbeams home in a jar\" sung with the wrong notes. The song reached #8 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in April 1969, and #10 in Canada in May 1969. The music and lyrics were written by Stevens with a title supplied by Bill Justis. Justis is officially credited as Bill Everette.\n\nA cover version was recorded by country music parodist Cledus T. Judd on his tribute album \"Boogity, Boogity - A Tribute to the Comedic Genius of Ray Stevens\" in 2007. Judd's cover features Keith Urban and Heidi Newfield (former lead singer of Trick Pony). An earlier cover appeared on Ralph's World's \"Green Gorilla, Monster and Me!\" (a children's music album) in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "16473093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16473093", "title": "Godfrey Morgan", "text": "Godfrey Morgan\n\nGodfrey Morgan: A Californian Mystery (, literally \"The School for Robinsons\"), also published as School for Crusoes, is an 1882 adventure novel by French writer Jules Verne. The novel tells of a wealthy young man, Godfrey Morgan who, with his deportment instructor, Professor T. Artelett, embark from San Francisco, California on a round-the-world ocean voyage. They are cast away on an uninhabited Pacific island where they must endure a series of adversities. Later they encounter an African slave, Carefinotu, brought to the island by cannibals. In the end, the trio manage to work together and survive on the island.\n\nThe novel is a robinsonade—a play on Daniel Defoe's 1719 novel \"Robinson Crusoe\".\n\nThe narrative begins with the auction by the US Government of fictional Spencer Island, located 460 miles off the California coast (). The island is uninhabited and there are only two bidders, William W. Kolderup, a very wealthy San Franciscan, and his arch-rival J. R. Taskinar, a resident of Stockton, California. Kolderup wins the auction, buying Spencer Island for four million dollars. J. R. Taskinar mutters, \"I will be avenged!\" before retiring to his hotel.\n\nGodfrey, an idle twenty-two-year-old, lives with Kolderup, his uncle, and Kolderup's adopted goddaughter, Phina, whom Godfrey has grown to love. Prior to marrying Phina, Godfrey asks to undertake a world tour. Acceding to his desire, his uncle sends Godfrey on a sea voyage around the world on board one of his steamships, the \"Dream\", commanded by Captain Turcott. Godfrey is accompanied by his mentor, teacher, and dance instructor, Professor T. Artelett aka \"Tartlet\".\n\nAfter some time at sea, Godfrey is awakened one foggy night and told to abandon ship as the \"Dream\" is foundering. After jumping into the sea, Godfrey is washed ashore on a deserted island, where he soon finds Tartlet has also been marooned. Godfrey, with scant help from Tartlet, will have to learn to survive, to organize his life, face hostile intruders, and overcome other obstacles. Eventually, they are also joined by Carefinotu, whom Godfrey rescues from Polynesians visiting the island. By the end of the story the formerly jaded young man has discovered the value of independent effort, and he gains poise and courage. The marooned group are rescued and returned to San Francisco, where Godfrey is reunited with Phina. They agree to marry before continuing the world tour, this time together.\n\nAlthough the setting is different, the robinsonade plot is a variation on the theme of rational self-sufficiency that Verne developed earlier in \"The Mysterious Island\" (1874). At the time of publication, it was common for a young man of wealth to undertake travel as an educational rite of passage, for example the California heir Leland Stanford, Jr. who took two European Grand Tours, one in 1880-81, and died on the second in 1884. The original French version of Verne's novel was published in 1882, after Stanford's first tour.\n\nThe novel was adapted for a 1981 USA/Spain co-production by director Juan Piquer Simón, titled Jules Verne's Mystery on Monster Island (), and starring Peter Cushing and Terence Stamp, with David Hatton, Ian Sera, Paul Naschy, Blanca Estrada, Ana Obregón and Frank Braña in supporting roles. Monsters were prominently included as an element in the film, but were absent from the novel, in which the villain J. R. Taskinar introduces non-indigenous carnivores to the island to take revenge on Kolderup's auction win. In 2007 the film was released on DVD as part of a double feature. Despite the similar title, the film has no connection with the better-known Verne novel \"The Mysterious Island\", though some reviewers have disregarded this.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39060916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39060916", "title": "Hwahyejang", "text": "Hwahyejang\n\nHwahyejang () are craftsmen who construct traditional Korean footwear. The shoes are classified into \"hwa\" (shoes that go over the ankle) and \"hye\" (shoes that do not cover the ankle), hence the compound word \"hwahyejang\". Historically, the two distinct types of shoe were made by separate specialist craftsmen, the \"hyejang\" and the \"hwajang\".\n\nThe only surviving traditional \"hwahyejang\" in Korea today is Hwang Hae-bong, who operates a small workshop in Seoul. His family have been making shoes for five generations. Hwang learned the trade from his grandfather and is training his second son Hwang Deok-jin to continue in the profession. In 2004, at the age of sixty, Hwang was recognised by Korea's Cultural Heritage Association as an intangible cultural asset, following in the footsteps of his grandfather Hwang Han-gap, who was made a cultural asset in 1971.\n\nThe basic form of the Korean shoe was developed during the Three Kingdoms era, although earlier forms date back to prehistoric times. During the early Joseon period as many as 30 professional shoemakers were employed at court. The shoemaking caste, however, was considered \"cheonmin\", the lowest possible caste. At this time, shoes were an important indicator of a person's profession or social status, with designs, colours and styles varying depending on social caste or occupation. However, after the Gabo Reform of 1894, traditional leather shoes became less popular, and in the twentieth century were largely superseded by rubber \"gomusin\".\n\nSince the release of Kim Yong-ik's short story \"Wedding Shoes\" and the film \"Ggotsin\" (\"flower shoes\") the term \"ggotsin\" has become a popular alternative name for classical Korean shoes. \"Hwahye\" are still worn for special occasions such as royal weddings, and for days of national mourning. In 2004 the art of shoemaking was recognised as an Important Intangible Cultural Property of Korea.\n\nIt can take as much as a week to craft a single pair of shoes. The shoes are typically made from leather obtained from cows, pigs or sheep, although historically horsehide and deerskin were also used. Whereas Western shoes are shaped differently for left and right feet, Korean shoes are identical for both feet; the softness of the leather gradually conforms to the shape of the owner's foot. Some types have ribbons or laces that are knotted around the ankle to keep the shoe in place. Many are decorated with floral designs, and are sometimes covered with an ornamental silk upper.\n\nThe process of creating a traditional shoe involves up to 72 individual processes, the most important of which is the stitching. This is performed using a needle made from a boar bristle, rather than a manufactured steel needle, due to the need for flexibility.\n\nThe following table shows the main types of traditional Korean shoe made by the \"hwahyejang\":\n"}
{"id": "41837590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41837590", "title": "Jiggs and Maggie (film series)", "text": "Jiggs and Maggie (film series)\n\nJiggs and Maggie were the major characters in a series of films made by the American studio Monogram Pictures between 1946 and 1950. Jiggs and Maggie are Irish immigrants to the United States, who constantly argue. The characters were created by the cartoonist George McManus in his long-running strip \"Bringing Up Father\". McManus appears in four of the films, playing himself.\n\nThe characters had first appeared on screen in the 1928 MGM film \"Bringing Up Father\". In 1946 Monogram made a fresh version starring actors Joe Yule and Renie Riano. Due to the popularity of the film, a series of four spin-offs were made. Monogram was a low-budget studio that specializes in making comedy, crime and western series.\n\nThe final film in the series, \"Jiggs and Maggie Out West\", was released a little less than a month after Yule suffered a fatal heart attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14371753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14371753", "title": "Knowledge sharing", "text": "Knowledge sharing\n\nKnowledge sharing is an activity through which knowledge (namely, information, skills, or expertise) is exchanged among people, friends, families, communities (for example, Wikipedia), or organizations.\n\nOrganizations have recognized that knowledge constitutes a valuable intangible asset for creating and sustaining competitive advantages. Knowledge sharing activities are generally supported by knowledge management systems. However, technology constitutes only one of the many factors that affect the sharing of knowledge in organizations, such as organizational culture, trust, and incentives. The sharing of knowledge constitutes a major challenge in the field of knowledge management because some employees tend to resist sharing their knowledge with the rest of the organization.\n\nIn the digital world, websites and applications enable knowledge or talent sharing between individuals and/or within teams. The individuals can easily reach the people who want to learn, share their talent and get rewarded.\n\nAlthough knowledge is commonly treated as an object, Dave Snowden has argued it is more appropriate to teach it as both a flow and a thing. Knowledge as a flow can be related to the concept of tacit knowledge, While the difficulty of sharing knowledge is in transferring knowledge from one entity to another, it may prove profitable for organizations to acknowledge the difficulties of knowledge transfer, adopting new knowledge management strategies accordingly.\n\nExplicit knowledge sharing occurs when explicit knowledge is made available to be shared between entities. Explicit knowledge sharing can happen successfully when the following criteria are met:\n\nTacit knowledge sharing occurs through different types of socialization. Although tacit knowledge is difficult to identify and codify, relevant factors that influence tacit knowledge sharing include:\n\nEmbedded knowledge sharing occurs when knowledge is shared through clearly delineated products, processes, routines, etc. This knowledge can be shared in different ways, such as:\n\nKnowledge constitutes a valuable, intangible asset for creating and sustaining competitive advantages within organizations. Several factors affect knowledge sharing in organizations, such as organizational culture, trust, incentives, and technology. Knowledge sharing activities are commonly supported by knowledge management systems, a form of information technology (IT) that facilitates and organizes information within a company or organization.\n\nKnowledge sharing can sometimes constitute a major challenge in the field of knowledge management. The difficulty of knowledge sharing resides in the transference of knowledge from one entity to another. Some employees tend to resist sharing their knowledge because of the notion that knowledge is property; ownership, therefore, becomes very important. In order to counteract this, individuals must be reassured that they will receive some type of incentive for what they create. However, Dalkir (2005) demonstrated that individuals are most commonly rewarded for what they know, not what they share. Negative consequences, such as isolation and resistance to ideas, occur when knowledge sharing is impeded. To promote knowledge sharing and remove knowledge sharing obstacles, the organizational culture of an entity should encourage discovery and innovation. Members who trust each other are willing to exchange knowledge and at the same time want to embrace knowledge from other members as well.\nInformation technology (IT) systems are common tools that help facilitate knowledge sharing and knowledge management. The main role of IT systems is to help people share knowledge through common platforms and electronic storage to help make access simpler, encouraging economic reuse of knowledge. IT systems can provide codification, personalization, electronic repositories for information and can help people locate each other to communicate directly. With appropriate training and education, IT systems can make it easier for organizations to acquire, store or disseminate knowledge.\n\nIn economic theory, knowledge sharing has been studied in the field of industrial organization and in the field of contract theory. In industrial organization, Bhattacharya, Glazer, and Sappington (1992) have emphasized the importance of knowledge sharing in research joint ventures in a context of imperfect competition. In the theory of incomplete contracts, Rosenkranz and Schmitz (1999, 2003) have used the Grossman-Hart-Moore property rights approach to study how knowledge sharing is affected by the underlying ownership structure. \n\n"}
{"id": "1491955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1491955", "title": "Kulam", "text": "Kulam\n\nKulam or \"Pagkukulam\" is a form of folk magic, specifically natural magic, practiced in the Philippines. It puts emphasis on the innate power of the self and a secret knowledge of \"Magica Baja\" or \"low magic\". Earth (soil), fire, herbs, spices, candles, oils and kitchenwares and utensils are often used for rituals, charms, spells and potions.\n\nMangkukulam (noun) is a person employing or using Kulam, ie the \"witch\". \n\nKinukulam (noun) is the target of the Kulam. \n\nNakulam (adj.) describes someone or something experiencing the effects of the Kulam. \n\nKulamin (verb) means to bewitch or do magic on a thing or person.\n\nIpakulam (verb) means to have someone bewitch, bless or hex someone or something else.\n\nKulam in the Philippines is said to be centered on the islands of Pampanga and Talalora, Western Samar and the province of Sorsogon, where many of the country's faith healers reside. Kulam also exists in many of the hinterlands, especially in Samar and Leyte.\n\nHowever, Kulam itself is known and occurs anywhere on the Philippines.\n\nThe Mangkukulam (/mahng-koo-KOO-lam/) can be considered a Filipino witch, literally meaning \"a practitioner of \"kulam\"\". Other terms are the Spanish \"brujo\" and \"bruja\" (masculine and feminine forms of \"witch\"; Filipinized as \"bruho\" and \"bruha\"). The verb kulamin (/koo-LAH-min/) means \"to bless or hex\", while a curse is called a \"sumpâ\" (/soom-PA/), which can also be translated as a \"vow\" or \"oath\". The Mangkukulam may use a voodoo doll and a needle to cast spells on people they want to revenge on, but largely use natural magic and superstitions similar to an Albularyo, or \"witch doctor\". Both can be considered witches, but the main difference is that the \"Albularyo\" is more of a doctor who heals people, while a \"Mangkukulam\" is a malevolent person who tricks and curses others.\n\nTo date, there have been no media, research, or claims that \"good \"mangkukulam\"\" exist, so it is fair to assume that the \"mangkukulam\" is the \"bad witch\" of Philippine witchcraft.\n\nThe primary methods employed by a \"mangkukulam\" are candle lighting ritual, scrying or tawas, recitation of spells, and concocting potions. Modern popular culture also depicts the \"mangkukulam\" as using either photographs or the equivalent of a Voodoo doll. Modern popular culture also depicts \"mangkukulam\" as mainly only doing love potions and malicious curses, but more extreme depictions claim they can summon ghosts to haunt dolls, raise the dead (or at least control dead bodies), and other things related to necromancy.\n\nA typical belief of \"mangkukulam\" is that curses are mitigated by finding the caster and bribing them to lift the curse. Superstitious people still attribute certain illnesses or diseases to \"kulam\". This most often happens in rural areas, where an herbal doctor called an \"Albularyo\" (/al-boo-LAR-yoh/), diagnoses a victim using a divination method called \"pagtatawas\" and helps the victim cure their malady.\n\nDarker forms of remedies to kulam include Albularyos whipping the bewitched person with a Buntot Pagi (Stingray's Tail) until the afflicted is forced to divulge the witch's name and confronting them. This is done in the belief that the one who is getting hurt is the witch and not the bewitched.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38186365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38186365", "title": "Lanarkshire Area Tourism Partnership", "text": "Lanarkshire Area Tourism Partnership\n\nThe Lanarkshire Area Tourism Partnership (formerly Lanarkshire Strategic Tourism Marketing Partnership) created the strategy for tourism and economic development in Lanarkshire under the brand \"VisitLanarkshire\" in 2005. This partnership is made up of representatives from North Lanarkshire and South Lanarkshire councils, VisitScotland, and private organisations across Lanarkshire, and is funded by the Lanarkshire Tourism Association. The development of tourism is in line with the objectives set out in the Lanarkshire Tourism Action Plan.\n\nThe partnership's VisitLanarkshire initiative was introduced to support growth in the tourism sector, which has been higher than most other sectors in the local area and makes a significant impact to Lanarkshire's economy, attracting over 3 million visitors a year and employing over 6,000 people.\n\nOne of the partnership's main tasks is to manage local information through its dedicated website www.visitlanarkshire.com, launched in 2009 which is a database to help locals and tourists find information on towns, attractions, accommodation, news and events in Lanarkshire. This tool is useful as it helps 2,000 users a week to find information, and benefits in particular a local audience. Social media is another tool used to promote local events in the area to the public and to push seasonal marketing campaigns which provide visitor boosts in Spring and Autumn.\n\nThe partnership works in close contact with accommodation providers and attractions in the area to maintain standards set out by VisitScotland's quality grading schemes. Through the VisitLanarkshire name, the partnership also communicates the strategic aims set out by the \"Scottish Tourism Alliance\" to ensure its partners are working in parallel with the rest of Scotland.\n\nThe partnership dedicated resources into producing a website promoting venues in Lanarkshire which was launched in 2012, after recognising that business tourism is a key growth sector in the tourism industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "30835697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30835697", "title": "Led Zeppelin – The 1980s, Part One", "text": "Led Zeppelin – The 1980s, Part One\n\nLed Zeppelin – The 1980s, Part One was a planned autumn 1980 concert tour of North America by the rock band Led Zeppelin. It was scheduled to take place from 17 October through 15 November of that year and cover much of the East Coast and Midwest. The band cancelled the tour when drummer John Bonham died on 25 September, one day after the group's initial rehearsal for the tour.\n\nIn the wake of Led Zeppelin's turmoil-plagued 1977 American tour, which ended abruptly with the sudden death of his son Karac, singer Robert Plant had become averse to touring America with the band. His reluctance to do so persisted despite the success of the \"In Through the Out Door\" album and the band's return to the stage at the 1979 Knebworth Festival after a two-year absence. Following the conclusion of Led Zeppelin's successful Tour Over Europe 1980, however, Plant had a change of heart and informed Led Zeppelin's manager Peter Grant that he was willing to undertake an American tour with the band in the autumn of 1980. According to writer Mick Wall, though,\n\nGrant had been concerned about the band's lengthy absence from one of its primary markets, and had correctly viewed the European tour as a way of rekindling Plant's interest in performing in America. Relieved by Plant's change of heart and mindful of the singer's conditions, Grant began planning a nineteen-date tour covering the American East Coast and Midwest, and envisioned Led Zeppelin undertaking additional West Coast and UK tours in early 1981. The band began preparations for the tour with renewed optimism about Led Zeppelin's future, with John Paul Jones in particular commenting that the band had \"new energy\" and was \"almost in a rebirth situation.\" John Bonham's death, however, resulted in the scuttling of the band's touring plans, and ultimately in the demise of Led Zeppelin itself, with the breakup of the band officially announced on 4 December 1980.\n\nWhile Jones's view of the state of Led Zeppelin on the eve of the 1980 North American tour was a positive one, writer Chris Welch saw things differently. In his biography of Peter Grant, Welch questioned the wisdom of the band undertaking a U.S. tour at that point in time:\n\nWelch and writers Dave Lewis and Mick Wall particularly questioned John Bonham's physical and emotional fitness to tour North America at that stage. They note that by the fall of 1980 Bonham's dislike of touring, which had been steadily growing over the years, was virtually as strong as Plant's. He was particularly nervous about the potential backlash he might experience in the U.S. from his involvement in the backstage brawl at the Oakland Coliseum during Led Zeppelin's 1977 tour. As Bonham grew older, moreover, the demands of touring—along with the effects of his alcohol and drug use—took an increasing toll on his energy and stamina, and by 1980 he was struggling with fatigue. He had already permanently dropped his lengthy drum solos from the band's onstage performances. While he came across to Lewis at the time as \"delighted\" about the upcoming trek, Bonham privately confided on the eve of the ill-fated rehearsals for \"Led Zeppelin - The 1980s, Part One\" that he felt depressed and uneasy about going on tour, and that he felt his drumming was no longer up to scratch. He reportedly told Plant, \"I've had it with playing drums. Everybody plays better than me. I'll tell you what, when we get to the rehearsal, you play the drums and I'll sing.\" After that initial rehearsal on 24 September, he complained again about going on tour while engaging in a drinking binge that would prove to be fatal.\n\nIronically, on 25 September, at the same time the rest of the band and its entourage were learning of Bonham's death, thousands of Led Zeppelin fans in Chicago were eagerly obtaining copies of that day's \"Chicago Tribune\" containing mail order applications for the upcoming November concerts. This proved to be fruitless since the tour was immediately cancelled.\n\nThe intended tour itinerary was as follows:\nFor the concerts on this tour, the band intended to use a scaled-down approach similar to the one they used for the European tour, which entailed fewer lighting effects, less improvisation, and fewer extended solos than their 1970s concerts. The previously rehearsed but unperformed \"In Through the Out Door\" track \"Carouselambra\" was included in the tentative set-list.\n\n"}
{"id": "36374081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36374081", "title": "Madonna of Humility (Fra Angelico)", "text": "Madonna of Humility (Fra Angelico)\n\nThe Madonna of Humility is a painting by Fra Angelico which belongs to the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid and is conserved on loan at the National Art Museum of Catalonia.\n\nThe Virgin seated on a cushion placed directly on the ground with the child standing on her lap, holds a vase in her left hand which contains roses and a lily, symbols of motherhood and purity. The Child, who is also holding a lily, rests his forehead on his mother's cheek. They are set under a cloth of honour made of gold and black embroidered brocade held by three angels, while two more angels are seated on the ground playing an organ and a lute. The monumental figures, the splendour of the clothes, the modulated light and the use of the blue colour place this panel in the purest fifteenth-century Italian style. The work has been identified as the one described by Giorgio Vasari in 1568 in the home of the Gondi family, in Florence, where it formed part of a polyptic.\n\n"}
{"id": "43438100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43438100", "title": "Marae (TV series)", "text": "Marae (TV series)\n\nMarae is a bilingual Maori and English language current affairs show on TVNZ, presented by Scotty Morrison and Miriama Kamo.\n\n"}
{"id": "663011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663011", "title": "Marville (comics)", "text": "Marville (comics)\n\nMarville is a 2002 comic book limited series published by Marvel Comics. The series was written by Bill Jemas, and the stories involve satirical comments on comic book industry conventions and trends. The book is regularly considered one of the worst comics of all time due to its confusing and rapidly-changing plots as well as its blatantly promotional nature.\n\nThe main character is Kal-AOL Turner, the son of Ted Turner and Jane Fonda from 5002. Kal-AOL is sent back in time via a time machine made out of video game systems. Despite having no superpowers, he tries to be a superhero. After some adventures as a Superhero, he and his friends decide to use their time machine to travel back to the origin of time and talk to God. Jack (who is never definitively stated to be God) takes Al and his friend through the times of the dinosaurs and neanderthals, explaining the origins of life and bestowing the secret of world peace to Al in the process. Al tries to have his story published as a series of comic books to share the secret of world peace, but is rejected because his story is not about superheroes or action.\n\nThe title is a reference to the TV series \"Smallville\"; the cover of issue #1 features the main character tied up as a scarecrow with a red 'M' painted on his chest, much as Tom Welling is in the first episode of \"Smallville\" and in related publicity material.\n\nThe series revisits several existing points of Marvel continuity in a completely irreverent and contradictory manner. For example, the issue titled \"Originville\" (referencing \"Origin\") visits a prehistoric setting in which Wolverine is a mutant Neanderthal. Despite this, the series' main character, Kal-AOL Turner made a cameo appearance in the Marvel Universe series \"GLA\" and received a profile in \"The All-New Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe A to Z\".\n\nIssue #3 consists entirely of art with the separations, with the script superimposed over it.\n\nThe final issue of \"Marville\", issue #7, does not actually contain a story; instead, it contains the submissions guidelines to Marvel's new Epic Comics imprint.\n\nMarville was created as part of Marvel's U-Decide promotional campaign, in which fans would decide which of three books would survive. The event involved one existing book (Peter David's \"Captain Marvel\", whose numbering was restarted at issue #1) and two new books (\"Marville\" and Ron Zimmerman's \"Ultimate Adventures\"), and was based around a bet between David and Jemas, of which Marvel editor-in-chief Joe Quesada later became a part. Jemas changed the stakes of the bet a few issues into \"Marville\", stating that the loser would take a pie in the face for charity. Despite this, both \"Marville\" and \"Ultimate Adventures\" ended fairly quickly, while the rebooted \"Captain Marvel\" would last 25 more issues, for a total of 60 issues when combined with the first run.\n\nFor its confusing plot, wanton sexuality, and thinly-veiled promotional nature, \"Marville\" was universally panned by critics, and is regularly referred to as one of the worst comics of all time. \n\n\"Comics Alliance\" included \"Marville\" in their list of the 15 Worst Comics of the Decade, calling it little more than a \"publicity stunt, and Rob Bricken of io9 likened the work to \"shooting heroin directly into your adrenal gland.\"\n\n\"Screen Rant\" ranked Kal-AOL (and the rest of the Marville cast) as one of the superheroes that Marvel wants you to forget.\n\n\"The A.V. Club\" called it \"abominable\", \"nearly unpublishable\", and — despite its professional-quality production values — \"fundamentally amateurish\", condemning Jemas for using the Marvel corporation as \"a vanity press for himself\".\n"}
{"id": "35144225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35144225", "title": "Matthew Grow", "text": "Matthew Grow\n\nMatthew J. Grow (born 1977), director of publications for the LDS Church History Department, is an American historian specializing in Mormon history. Grow authored a biography of Thomas L. Kane, \"Liberty to the Downtrodden\" (2009), and co-authored, with Terryl Givens, a biography of Parley P. Pratt (2011). \nHe formerly directed the Center for Communal Studies housed at the University of Southern Indiana. As of 2012, Grow was director of publications for the LDS Church History Department and was among scholars preparing for publication of the \"Joseph Smith Papers.\"\n\nIn 2016, the Church Historian's Press released the book \"\", which was edited by Grow, Jill Mulvay Derr, Carol Cornwall Madsen, and Kate Holbrook. He also edited the book \"The Council of Fifty, Minutes, March 1844–January 1846,\" for the Church Historian's Press imprint of Deseret Book, 2016.\n\nGrow also wrote the article \"The Whore of Babylon and the Abomination of Abominations: Nineteenth-Century Catholic and Mormon Mutual Perceptions and Religious Identity\".\n\nGrow has a bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University (BYU) and a Ph.D. from the University of Notre Dame. During his graduate training Grow did a summer seminar course in Latter-day Saint history that was directed by Richard L. Bushman.\n\nGrow also serves as the historian for the Jared Pratt Family Association.\n"}
{"id": "11158983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11158983", "title": "Mock Spanish", "text": "Mock Spanish\n\nMock Spanish is used to describe a variety of Spanish-inspired phrases common in some otherwise monolingual Anglo-American circles. The term \"mock Spanish\" has been popularized by anthropologist-linguist Jane H. Hill of the University of Arizona, most recognizably in relation to the catchphrase, \"Hasta la vista, baby\", from the film, \"\". Hill argues that the incorporation of pseudo-Spanish terms like \"hasty banana\" (for \"hasta mañana\"), \"buenos nachos\" (for \"buenas noches\"), \"el cheapo\", \"no problemo\", \"hasta la bye-bye\", and other humorous uses constitute a type of covert racism. However, many feel that this type of language is harmless and is a natural consequence of multiculturalism.\n\nHill found that mock Spanish was especially prevalent \"among middle- and upper-income, college-educated whites\". She discovered that many of those who make use of mock Spanish or mock language in their casual speech consider it harmless or even flattering, while native Spanish speakers are likely to find it insulting. She presented an argument that mock Spanish depends on the covert indexing of negative stereotypes of Spanish speakers and that it can only be accurately interpreted if negative stereotypes about Hispanophones can be accessed. \n\nIn \"José, can you see?\", Ana Celia Zentella describes mock Spanish as one half of a double-standard in which Hispanics are expected to conform to the linguistic norms of English while Anglo-Americans are free to ignore all grammatical aspects of the Spanish language they are borrowing from. According to Zentella, \n\nHill contrasts mock Spanish with two other registers of \"Anglo Spanish\" that she refers to as \"Nouvelle Spanish\" (largely used to provide a Spanish flavor for marketing purposes, e.g. \"the land of \"mañana\"\" used to describe the Southwest or \"Hair \"Casa\"\" as the name of a beauty salon) and \"Cowboy Spanish\" (loanwords for region-specific objects and concepts, such as \"coyote\", \"mesa\", and \"tamale\").\n\n"}
{"id": "16314501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16314501", "title": "Modality effect", "text": "Modality effect\n\nThe modality effect is a term used in experimental psychology, most often in the fields dealing with memory and learning, to refer to how learner performance depends on the presentation mode of studied items.\n\nModality can refer to a number of characteristics of the presented study material. However, this term is usually used to describe the improved recall of the final items of a list when that list is presented verbally in comparison with a visual representation. The effect is seen in free recall (recall of list items in any given order), serial recall (recall of list items in the order of study), short-term sentence recall (recall specific words from sentences with similar meanings) and paired associate recall (recall of a pair from presentation of one of its members). For paired associates, the effect is limited to an increased probability of recall for the final 2 or 3 pairs studied. In free recall and serial recall, the modality effect is seen as simply an exaggerated recency effect in tests where presentation is auditory. In short-term sentence recall studies, emphasis is placed on words in a distractor-word list when requesting information from the remembered sentence. This demonstrates the modality effect can be more than auditory or visual.\n\nFor serial recall, the modality effect is seen in an increased memory span for auditorally presented lists. Memory span is defined as the maximum number of items that participants correctly recall in 50% of trials. Typically, studies find these to be seven digits, six letters and five words. In a study done by Drewnowski and Murdock, a visual list of English words was found to have an immediate recall of 4.82 words while an auditory representation of this same list led to a memory span of 5.36, a statistically significant variance.\n\nSome studies use the term modality to refer to a general difference in performance based upon the mode of presentation. For example, Gibbons demonstrated modality effects in an experiment by making participants count either beeping sounds or visually presented dots. The to-be-remembered number was derived from the number of dots or beeps counted. In memory experiments, the modality effect is an example of source clustering, which refers to the tendency of items presented in the same modality to be grouped together during recall. Within-list manipulations of modality affect recall probability, order of recall, and grouping.\n\nBennet Murdock used a basic free recall paradigm, with different types of lists, mixing auditorally and visually presented words. The results he obtained showed that modality improved recency but did not affect recall for the pre-recency items. This effect was seen to be slightly larger when the items for study were presented more rapidly. However, with mixed list presentations (lists presented both auditorally and visually in a single study period) the superiority of auditory study is seen in all serial positions, not just in recency. Murdock interprets this as evidence for separate short term stores for visual and auditory memory.\n\nGlenberg showed that the modality effect is also prevalent in long term memory, showing that to-be-remembered word pairs that are separated by distractor activity are better recalled if presented auditorally vs. visually. By using techniques similar to Murdock’s free recall paradigm, plus the addition of varied amounts of distraction time (filled with counting backwards), Glenberg showed that the modality effect is not affected by a disruptive task and therefore is theoretically not restricted to short term memory.\n\nSeveral terms have been used to refer to the modality effect on recency. Crowder and Morton refer to it as PAS, or precategorical acoustic store. This and other similar terms(echoic memory, phonological loop) are used to explain a specialized short-term memory system store for phonological information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4703419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4703419", "title": "Mozarteum Orchestra Salzburg", "text": "Mozarteum Orchestra Salzburg\n\nThe Mozarteum Orchestra Salzburg is an Austrian orchestra, based in the town and state of Salzburg. The orchestra gives concerts in several Salzburg venues, including the \"Großes Festspielhaus\", the Great Hall of the Stiftung Mozarteum. In addition to symphony orchestra concerts, the orchestra serves as accompanying ensemble for operas and musical theatre performances at the Salzburg State Theater.\n\nThe ensemble was founded in 1841 with the help of Mozart’s sons Franz Xaver and Karl Thomas, as well as his widow Constanze, under the musical direction of Alois Taux. In 1908, the ensemble officially adopted the name \"Mozarteum Orchestra\". The Mozarteum Orchestra participates regularly at the Salzburg Festival, such as in the Festival's 'Mozart Matinees'. It also performs several concerts at the Salzburg Mozart Week and for the Salzburg Cultural Association. \n\nIn 2008, the Mozarteum Orchestra began a young project, '2 ORCHESTRAS', which presents new works for the combination of a professional orchestra and a youth orchestra. Composers who have written works for this project have included Kurt Schwertsik and Toshio Hosokawa.\n\nThe orchestra's most recent chief conductor was Ivor Bolton, from 2004 to 2016. Bolton now has the title of \"Ehrendirigent\" (Honorary Conductor) with the orchestra. In September 2016, Riccardo Minasi made his first guest-conducting appearance with the orchestra. In December 2016, the orchestra announced the appointment of Minasi as its next chief conductor, effective September 2017. Past principal guest conductors of the orchestra have included Trevor Pinnock. The orchestra's current principal guest conductor is Giovanni Antonini.\n\nThe Mozarteum Orchestra has recorded commercially for such labels as Oehms Classics, Sony Classical, and Naive. \n\n"}
{"id": "13091685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13091685", "title": "Munchausen by Internet", "text": "Munchausen by Internet\n\nMunchausen by Internet is a pattern of behavior akin to Munchausen syndrome (renamed factitious disorder imposed on self), a psychiatric disorder, wherein those affected feign disease, illness, or psychological trauma to draw attention, sympathy, or reassurance to themselves. In Munchausen by Internet, users seek attention by feigning illnesses in online venues such as chat rooms, message boards, and Internet Relay Chat (IRC). It is different from catfishing, where the person feigns an identity to seek attention by online dating. It has been described in medical literature as a manifestation of factitious disorder imposed on self, or if claiming illness of a child or other family member, factitious disorder imposed on another. Reports of users who deceive Internet forum participants by portraying themselves as gravely ill or as victims of violence first appeared in the 1990s due to the relative newness of Internet communications. The pattern was identified in 1998 by psychiatrist Marc Feldman, who created the term \"Münchausen by Internet\" in 2000. It is not included in the fifth revision of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5).\n\nThe development of factitious disorders in online venues is made easier by the availability of medical literature on the Internet, the anonymous and malleable nature of online identities, and the existence of communication forums established for the sole purpose of giving support to members facing significant health or psychological problems. Several high-profile cases have demonstrated behavior patterns which are common among those who pose as gravely ill or as victims of violence, or whose deaths are announced to online forums. The virtual communities that were created to give support, as well as general non-medical communities, often express genuine sympathy and grief for the purported victims. When fabrications are suspected or confirmed, the ensuing discussion can create schisms in online communities, destroying some and altering the trusting nature of individual members in others.\n\nThe term \"Munchausen by Internet\" was first used in an article published in the \"Southern Medical Journal\" written by Marc Feldman in 2000. Feldman, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, gave a name to the phenomenon in 2000, but he co-authored an article on the topic two years earlier in the \"Western Journal of Medicine\", using the description \"virtual factitious disorder\". Factitious disorders are described in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-IV-TR\" (DSM) as psychological disorders involving the production of non-existent physical or psychological ailments to earn sympathy. These illnesses are feigned not for monetary gain or to avoid inconvenient situations, but to attract compassion or to control others. Chronic manifestation of factitious disorder is often called Munchausen syndrome, after a book about the exaggerated accounts of the adventures of Baron Munchausen, a German cavalry officer in the Russian Army, that was written by Rudolf Erich Raspe. When the symptoms of another person, such as a child or an elderly parent, are purposely induced by the caregiver, it is called factitious disorder imposed on another, or Munchausen syndrome by proxy.\n\nFeldman noted that the advent of online support groups, combined with access to vast stores of medical information, enabled individuals seeking to gain sympathy by relating a series of harrowing medical or psychological problems that defy comprehension to misuse the groups. Communication forums specializing in medical or psychological recovery were established to give lay users support in navigating often confusing and frustrating medical processes and bureaucracy. Communities often formed on those forums, with the goal of sharing information to help other members. Medical websites also became common, giving lay users access to literature in a way that was accessible to those without specific medical training. As Internet communication grew in popularity, users began to forgo the doctors and hospitals often consulted for medical advice. Frequenting virtual communities that have experience with a medical problem, Feldman notes, is easier than going through the physical pain or illness that would be necessary before visiting a doctor to get the attention sought. By pretending to be gravely ill, Internet users can gain sympathy from a group whose sole reason for existence is support. Health care professionals, with their limited time, greater medical knowledge, and tendency to be more skeptical in their diagnoses, may be less likely to provide that support.\n\nPeople who demonstrate factitious disorders often claim to have physical ailments or be recovering from the consequences of stalking, victimization, harassment, and sexual abuse. Several behaviors present themselves to suggest factors beyond genuine problems. After studying 21 cases of deception, Feldman listed the following common behavior patterns in people who exhibited Munchausen by Internet:\n\nFeldman has admitted in several interviews that he has been the victim of people who email him to explain psychiatric symptoms, only to divulge eventually that they created it all to fool a doctor. For prolonged cases, he states the impetus for such behavior is the \"longing for nurturing, sympathy, care and concern that they feel unable to get in appropriate ways,\" and that the admiration of forum members is a strong motivator to continue. As manipulation is integral to most cases, the need to control others to feel as if the perpetrator is in control of his or her own life is apparent, as is the pre-existence of underlying personality disorders. Many people who present factitious disorders crave sympathy and support because it was notably absent in childhood. In a story published in \"The Village Voice\" in 2001, a woman recovering from factitious disorder remembered her drive to create conditions that did not exist: \"When I'd do something to attract the paramedics and police, I got an adrenaline rush. I believe I got addicted to it. At the time, it didn't occur to me I was hurting anyone but myself.\" A psychologist who was a member of the support group for premature infants stated in \"The New York Times\" article, \"People who do this need something. I wonder if it's a metaphor for some other loss she experienced and is playing over and over again in different shapes.\"\n\nFeldman reports that most of the cases of Munchausen by Internet communicated to him come from the United States, although he has corresponded with forum members making inquiries from Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Feldman reports parallel manifestations of factitious disorder, peaking between a person's 20s and 30s.\n\nIn an article published in \"The Guardian\", Steve Jones, a communications professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, gave his perspective on the Kaycee Nicole case. Jones credits the anonymity of the Internet for impeding people's abilities to realize when someone is lying: \"Given the mutability of identity, how are we to negotiate social relations that, at least in the realm of face-to-face communication, were fixed by recognition of identity?\" Online interaction has only been possible since the 1980s, steadily growing over the years. After analyzing several cases of online deception and interaction, social theorists Adam Joinson and Beth Dietz-Uhler write in a 2002 \"Social Science Computer Review\" article that deception on the Internet is a paradox: the faceless nature of online communications not only gives opportunity to the unscrupulous and attention-seekers, but also allows earnest users to express themselves more freely, representing a truer version of themselves. Typically, Internet deception takes the form of changing one's sex or presenting one's own idealized image of oneself. Joinson and Dietz-Uhler cite a chapter in \"Network and Netplay\", in which researchers note the purpose of some forums is to allow their members to participate in a kind of online party, affording chances to pretend and perform: \"the type of play on the Internet is usually allowed only in children or adults during masked balls or carnivals\". More practical issues such as age, location, marital status, and occupation are also frequently changed online, or left ambiguous to preserve users' privacy or continue identity play.\n\nFeldman's article in the \"Western Journal of Medicine\" was picked up by \"The New York Times\" in a story by Denise Grady, who described three cases of Internet forum members who were \"incorrigible fakers\". These include a woman with a professed eating disorder who posted to a support group saying she was reporting from an intensive care unit via her laptop computer, and claimed to have had a stroke while online, to be followed by her mother's posts declaring that she too had to be hospitalized; the original poster's father purportedly continued to update the online group. In another example, a teenager frequenting a forum for mothers with premature infants – some of whom had endured lengthy, expensive, and painful medical procedures, or had died – claimed to have given birth to a premature baby and expressed her fears for her own child, after which she received support and sympathy from the 400-member group. The teenager confided to the group that her baby had also died, and soon after returned to the forum to announce she was again pregnant and feared her baby would be premature, which it turned out to be, more frail this time than the first. Forum members eventually became unsympathetic with her vivid descriptions of surgeries and confronted her. Grady also addresses a similar confrontation that occurred when a man who claimed to be a monk with end-stage cancer posted long descriptions of his trials and struggles with facing death alone, eventually arousing the suspicions of other forum members who were not convinced someone so sick could correspond with so much vitality.\n\nSome deceptions may take many months to unravel, such as a case that lasted over a year involving a 15-year-old boy participating in an online support group for people enduring debilitating migraine headaches. Some of the group's members had been on disability pension or gone through drug regimens for years to no avail. The boy represented his mother as deaf and his father as an alcoholic, and he reported seizures and hemophilia as complicating conditions. However, he also claimed to be a medical student who performed as a drummer in a band. Resources of the forum became constantly directed at the boy, especially when some members expressed doubt about his story. The boy's mother—previously noted by him to be neglectful—logged on to post that questions about his conditions would worsen them; when they did not cease, he left the group, saying the atmosphere violated \"the spirit of the internet\".\n\nInternet venues unrelated to medical issues have also been the audience for such cases. A member of an online fan club for the musical \"Rent\" divulged numerous illnesses that caused her to slip in and out of comas, prompting some cast members to send sympathy cards. When other fan club members expressed their concern, even purchasing airline tickets to visit the sick woman, she reported that she had immediately improved.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2001 a 40-year-old homemaker named Debbie Swenson perpetrated a ruse under the identity Kaycee Nicole, a 19-year-old woman in Kansas who shared the details of her battles with leukemia online. \"The Guardian\" newspaper reported that millions of Internet users read the fictional blog, as well as Swenson's own blog, in which she posed as Kaycee Nicole's mother, describing the trials of living with an intelligent and optimistic daughter who was dying. On May 16, 2001, Kaycee Nicole's death of an aneurysm was announced, shocking her readers and causing them intense grief. Soon however, Swenson caused skepticism in online communities. Although many cards and gifts had been previously sent, she refused to accept more. People began to learn that no one named Kaycee Nicole lived in Kansas, had been enrolled in schools, or admitted to local hospitals, and no obituary had been printed. The photo representing the girl was found to be that of a basketball player from Gracemont, Oklahoma, who was alive. After repeated questioning, Swenson posted that she had woven the stories of three cancer patients to create the character of Kaycee Nicole, who had never existed.\n\nForum members whose ruses are discovered by their support groups are frequently banned from such communities—sometimes after demanding that site administrators do so—moving on to other websites to display other ailments. Denise Grady noted in \"The New York Times\" that the woman with the eating disorder moved to a group for sexual abuse survivors, then to another where she claimed to be dying of AIDS. An article in \"The Weekend Australian\" highlighted an example of this in 2003: a woman in London admitted to belonging to online support forums dedicated to helping members cope with migraines, grieving over dead children, and breast cancer, all at the same time. She told a psychiatrist that she would study a specific malady and subsequently present herself with its symptoms; her time at each forum followed a daily schedule. Others disappear and simply stop posting, such as the monk who claimed to have cancer.\n\nWhen confronted with inaccuracies or inconsistencies, those who are suspected of perpetrating fabrications may compound the deceit by accusing forum members of imposing greater stresses upon them, exacerbating their conditions, or worsening their depression. Users may employ sockpuppets—separate online identities controlled by the same person—to accuse other forum members of disloyalty and persecution, or support the user who is under suspicion. Feldman's 1998 article in the \"Western Journal of Medicine\" notes a case in which a member of a support group for people with Chronic Fatigue Syndrome created a husband, sister-in-law, and family friend who simultaneously engaged in arguments with and about the original member; when the amount of attention directed toward the original member became inadequate, she claimed the sister-in-law committed suicide in response to the lack of support.\n\nOther perpetrators suggest that their lying may actually assist group members, as one member of a Harry Potter fan forum posted following the discovery that she had not, in fact, died of tuberculosis: \"After realising the effect my bravery in my illness had on people, I then used it as a vehicle to try and get some of the idiot emo kids on [the forum] to buck up and realise they don't really have it all that bad...the lie was worth something, wasn't it? How bad is a lie if it helps?\"\n\nBecause no money is exchanged and laws are rarely broken, there is little legal recourse to take upon discovery of someone faking illness. However, a participant in a 7,000-member online support group brought a lawsuit against a website for defamatory language in 2005. The lawsuit followed heated discussion on the website about his dire predicaments and related crises, which seemed to contradict medical knowledge and his own accounts. The lawsuit was withdrawn after the presiding judge intended to allow cross-examination of the plaintiff's medical history.\n\nSuch dramatic situations often polarize online communities. Many members feel ashamed for believing elaborate lies, while others remain staunch supporters. Members who admit to feigning their conditions often respond by implicating the gullibility of forum members, suggesting that it is their own fault for being deceived. Feldman admits that an element of sadism may be evident in some of the more egregious abuses of trust. Pam Cohen, a grief counselor who witnessed the outpouring of emotion for Kaycee Nicole, likened the personal devastation resulting from genuine concern, sympathy, and support that forum members gave to the 19-year-old and her mother, only to discover that none of it was true, to \"emotional rape\". Adam Joinson and Beth Dietz-Uhler, in \"Social Science Computer Review\", address deception perpetrated on some forums—specifically IRC and multi-user dungeons—and state that masquerading is so common that hoaxes are expected, and their perpetrators are sometimes even praised for creating realistic ones.\n\nOther perpetrators react by issuing general accusations of dishonesty to everyone, following the exposure of such fabrications. The support groups themselves often bar discussion about the fraudulent perpetrator, in order to avoid further argument and negativity. Many forums do not recover, often splintering or shutting down. In 2004, members of the blog hosting service LiveJournal established a forum dedicated to investigating cases of members of online communities dying—sometimes while online. Writer Howard Swains referred to the online deaths as \"pseuicides\" in Wired.com. \"New Zealand PC World Magazine\" called Munchausen by Internet \"cybermunch\", and those who posed online \"cybermunchers\". In 2007 \"The LiveJournal\" forum reported that, of the deaths reported to them, about 10% were real.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30767480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30767480", "title": "My Life Me", "text": "My Life Me\n\nMy Life Me is a short-lived French-Canadian animated television series created by JC Little, Cindy Filipenko and Svetlana Chmakova, co-directed by Mr. Niko. The teen slice-of-life comedy follows Birch Small, a manga and anime fan with aspirations of being a comic artist, as she tries to survive high school. The show features manga symbols such as sweatdrops, speech bubbles, and super-deformed chibi characters.\n\nThe series first aired on the French-language Télétoon on September 19, 2010. It was shown on the English-language channel Teletoon from September 5, 2011 to September 30, 2011.\n\n\"My Life Me\" received a development deal in 2006 from Teletoon. The series was a co-production between Canadian and French companies. The episodes were animated using ToonBoom Harmony, and the animation was split episodically between Toutenkartoon in Montreal, Canada, and Caribara in Angoulême, France. Backgrounds were created in Maya, then cel-shaded, rendered and imported into Harmony. The animators did a hybrid of digital and hand drawn to help the fluidity in the animation.\n\nAnimated digitally, manga aesthetics were given homage \"using various comic book manga codes and language such as stylish black and white comic book panels dropping behind the characters to express their suppressed feelings on screen.\" Even before production began My Life Me was planned to be \"developed as a lifestyle brand, there will be a licensing and merchandising program to support the brand with a strong emphasis on publishing, accessories, gifts, stationery, apparel as well as a strong online component with a fully interactive website currently in production.\" The planned delivery of the series, shorts, and website was fall 2009.\n\n\"My Life Me\" was \"at the top of German co-production group TV-Loonland's offering in the 2009 autumn TV markets\". In early 2010, TV-Loonland filed for bankruptcy/insolvency and its assets were sold off. My Life Me, at the time still in production, was one of such properties. The series was acquired by Classic Media in February. Classic Media took control of all media iterations of the property including the planned \"heavily interactive\" website. \"Other than the television series, fifty-two eleven-minute episodes, the property is reported to include music video clips and more for mobile, online, and video on-demand distribution.\"\n\nBirch Small's school system requires her and her classmates, Liam, Sandra, and Raffi to work together in a group known around the school as a \"Pod.\" The students don't get to choose who they are partnered up with; they must work together, despite their differences and shortcomings.\n\n\n\n\n\nTeletoon original airdates follow the episode titles in parentheses:\n\n\nIt was nominated for a Kidscreen Award 2010. The MyLifeME.com website was nominated for Best Kids Interactive for the Canada New Media Awards in 2010. My Life Me was nominated for two Gemini Awards in 2011; in Internet and New Media, Best Website for a Program or Series: Youth and in Television, Best Animation Program or Series.\n"}
{"id": "41710102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41710102", "title": "Naked Ambition 2", "text": "Naked Ambition 2\n\nNaked Ambition 2, also known as 3D Naked Ambition (Chinese: 3D豪情), is a 2014 Hong Kong 3D sex comedy film directed by Lee Kung-lok and starring Chapman To and Josie Ho. It is a loose sequel to Chan Hing-ka and Dante Lam's 2003 film \"Naked Ambition\". Filming began in Tokyo in October 2013. The film parodies the Japanese adult film industry through various iconic scenes with exaggerated expressions.\n\nLiterature graduate Wyman Chan (Chapman To) writes erotic stories in the soft porn section of the newspaper for a living, but with the soft porn section ceasing publication, he loses his job. The unemployed Chan becomes capricious, and takes inspiration from men working in the Japanese adult video (AV) industry to become a producer of pornographic films. Chan's idea immediately receives enthusiastic responses from his friends, who offer their help—especially Hatoyama (Josie Ho), who is familiar with the Japanese porn industry. While everyone initially takes great interest in being a part of filming, Chan is soon forced into acting in the lead role. Surprisingly, Chan becomes a sensation in Japan for his performance of being sexually harassed and dominated by women in the AV. Hatoyama immediately travels to Hong Kong to persuade Chan to pursue his unrealistic dream—a Hong Kong man entering the Japanese AV industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "56866774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56866774", "title": "National anthem of Mauritania (1960–2017)", "text": "National anthem of Mauritania (1960–2017)\n\nThe \"National Anthem of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania\" was Mauritania's former national anthem between 1960 and 2017. Its lyrics are taken from a poem written in the late 18th century by Baba Ould Cheikh. The melody was arranged by Tolia Nikiprowetzky. The anthem was adopted upon independence from France in 1960. The unusual and highly complex rhythm of it makes it extremely difficult to sing; for this reason it is often erroneously listed as wordless. The anthem was replaced by the current national anthem on 16 November 2017, after the Mauritanian constitutional referendum of 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "42946042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42946042", "title": "Nazrul Tirtha", "text": "Nazrul Tirtha\n\nNazrul Tirtha (\"Nazrul Pilgrimage\") is a cultural and educational center dedicated to the rebel poet Kazi Nazrul Islam. The center is situated at Action Area 1, New Town (few meters away from Rabindra Tirtha). West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated the center on 24 May 2014 to mark the occasion of the 115th birth anniversary of the poet.\n\nFrom August 2015, the center started screening films and in November 2015 became a venue for the Kolkata International Film Festival. Nazrul Tirtha also hosts art exhibitions. \n\nThe design and architecture of the center is said to be unique in Kolkata and bears the signature material of controversial Swiss-born French architect Le Corbusier.\n\n"}
{"id": "24650066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24650066", "title": "Otto Basler", "text": "Otto Basler\n\nOtto Basler (8 May 1892 in Kitzingen, Bavaria – 28 May 1975 in Freiburg im Breigau) was a German philologist.\n\nBasler studied German, Romance studies, English and history at the University of Freiburg. In World War I, he was a reserve officer. After his graduation, he was a librarian at the University of Freiburg until 1936, when he became the librarian at the German army library from 1936–1945 in Berlin. In 1943, he started teaching at the University of Munich, first with a training order for German philology and folklore, and in 1947, he became a professor at the university. From 1952 to his retirement, he taught at Freiburg University. He left Freiburg im Breisgau, where he taught since 1952 as a fee professor to 1959. Basler was involved in the German orthography reform of 1944. After the end of the World War II, he published his proposals for a spelling reform in his Leibniz publishing house.\n\n"}
{"id": "46235206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46235206", "title": "Piplantri", "text": "Piplantri\n\nPiplantri a village located in Rajsamand district in Rajasthan State, India.\n\nThe villagers of Piplantri plants 111 trees every time a girl child is born and the community ensures these trees survive, attaining fruition as the girls grow up. India has a huge deficit of girls thanks to a society obsessed with boys. Over the years, people here have managed to plant over 300 000 trees on the village's grazing commons - including Neem, Sheesham, Mango, Amla among others.\n\nTo ensure financial security, after the birth of a girl child, the villagers contribute Rs 21,000 collectively and take Rs 10,000 from the parents and put it in a fixed deposit bank account, which can be used only after she turns 20. To make sure that girl child receives proper education, the villagers make the parents sign an affidavit (legal contract) which restricts them from marrying her off before she attains the legal age for marriage.\n\nShyam Sundar Paliwal, the former sarpanch (elected village head) started this initiative in the memory of his daughter Kiran, who died a few years ago.\n\nThe initiative that began in 2006 has turned Piplantri village into an oasis. The birth of a girl child is now welcomed and the village is covered with Neem, Mango, Amla and Sheesham trees leading to a higher water level and richer wildlife.\n\nThe initiative has also helped the town’s economy. To keep termites away from the trees, many of which bear fruit, the village has planted more than 2.5 million Aloe vera plants around them. Gradually, the villagers realized that Aloe vera could be processed and marketed in a variety of ways. So the community now produces and markets aloe-based products like juice and gel, among other things.\n"}
{"id": "26447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26447", "title": "Resurrection", "text": "Resurrection\n\nResurrection is the concept of coming back to life after death. In a number of ancient religions, a dying-and-rising god is a deity which dies and resurrects. \n\nThe resurrection of the dead is a standard eschatological belief in the Abrahamic religions. As a religious concept, it is used in two distinct respects: a belief in the resurrection of individual souls that is current and ongoing (Christian idealism, realized eschatology), or else a belief in a singular resurrection of the dead at the end of the world. Some believe the soul is the actual vehicle by which people are resurrected.\n\nThe death and resurrection of Jesus, an example of resurrection, is the central focus of Christianity. Christian theological debate ensues with regard to what kind of resurrection is factual – either a \"spiritual\" resurrection with a spirit body into Heaven, or a material resurrection with a restored human body. While most Christians believe Jesus' resurrection from the dead and ascension to Heaven was in a material body, a very small minority believe it was spiritual.\n\nThere are documented rare cases of the return to life of the clinically dead which are classified scientifically as examples of the Lazarus syndrome, a term originating from the biblical story of the resurrection of Lazarus.\n\nResurrection, from the Latin noun \"resurrectio -onis\", from the verb \"rego\", \"to make straight, rule\" + preposition \"sub\", \"under\", altered to \"subrigo\" and contracted to \"surgo, surrexi, surrectum\" (\"to rise\", \"get up\", \"stand up\") + preposition \"re-\", \"again\", thus literally \"a straightening from under again\".\n\nThe concept of resurrection is found in the writings of some ancient non-Abrahamic religions in the Middle East. A few extant Egyptian and Canaanite writings allude to dying and rising gods such as Osiris and Baal. Sir James Frazer in his book \"The Golden Bough\" relates to these dying and rising gods, but many of his examples, according to various scholars, distort the sources. Taking a more positive position, Tryggve Mettinger argues in his recent book that the category of rise and return to life is significant for the following deities: Ugaritic Baal, Melqart, Adonis, Eshmun, Osiris and Dumuzi.\n\nIn ancient Greek religion a number of men and women were made physically immortal as they were resurrected from the dead. Asclepius was killed by Zeus, only to be resurrected and transformed into a major deity. Achilles, after being killed, was snatched from his funeral pyre by his divine mother Thetis and resurrected, brought to an immortal existence in either Leuce, Elysian plains or the Islands of the Blessed. Memnon, who was killed by Achilles, seems to have received a similar fate. Alcmene, Castor, Heracles, and Melicertes, were also among the figures sometimes considered to have been resurrected to physical immortality. According to Herodotus's Histories, the seventh century BC sage Aristeas of Proconnesus was first found dead, after which his body disappeared from a locked room. Later he found not only to have been resurrected but to have gained immortality.\n\nMany other figures, like a great part of those who fought in the Trojan and Theban wars, Menelaus, and the historical pugilist Cleomedes of Astupalaea, were also believed to have been made physically immortal, but without having died in the first place. Indeed, in Greek religion, immortality originally always included an eternal union of body and soul. The philosophical idea of an immortal soul was a later invention, which, although influential, never had a breakthrough in the Greek world. As may be witnessed even into the Christian era, not least by the complaints of various philosophers over popular beliefs, traditional Greek believers maintained the conviction that certain individuals were resurrected from the dead and made physically immortal and that for the rest of us, we could only look forward to an existence as disembodied and dead souls.\n\nThis traditional religious belief in physical immortality was generally denied by the Greek philosophers. Writing his \"Lives of Illustrious Men\" (Parallel Lives) in the first century CE, the Middle Platonic philosopher Plutarch's chapter on Romulus gave an account of the mysterious disappearance and subsequent deification of this first king of Rome, comparing it to traditional Greek beliefs such as the resurrection and physical immortalization of Alcmene and Aristeas the Proconnesian, \"for they say Aristeas died in a fuller's work-shop, and his friends coming to look for him, found his body vanished; and that some presently after, coming from abroad, said they met him traveling towards Croton.\" Plutarch openly scorned such beliefs held in traditional ancient Greek religion, writing, \"many such improbabilities do your fabulous writers relate, deifying creatures naturally mortal.\"\n\nThe parallel between these traditional beliefs and the later resurrection of Jesus was not lost on the early Christians, as Justin Martyr argued: \"when we say ... Jesus Christ, our teacher, was crucified and died, and rose again, and ascended into heaven, we propose nothing different from what you believe regarding those whom you consider sons of Zeus.\" (\"1 Apol.\" 21). There is, however, no belief in a general resurrection in ancient Greek religion, as the Greeks held that not even the gods were able to recreate flesh that had been lost to decay, fire or consumption. The notion of a \"general\" resurrection of the dead was therefore apparently quite preposterous to the Greeks. This is made clear in Paul's Areopagus discourse. After having first told about the resurrection of Jesus, which makes the Athenians interested to hear more, Paul goes on, relating how this event relates to a general resurrection of the dead:\n\nThere are three explicit examples in the Hebrew Bible of people being resurrected from the dead:\n\nDuring the period of the Second Temple, there developed a diversity of beliefs concerning the resurrection. The concept of resurrection of the physical body is found in 2 Maccabees, according to which it will happen through recreation of the flesh. Resurrection of the dead also appears in detail in the extra-canonical books of Enoch, in Apocalypse of Baruch, and 2 Esdras. According to the British scholar in ancient Judaism Philip R. Davies, there is “little or no clear reference … either to immortality or to resurrection from the dead” in the Dead Sea scrolls texts. Both Josephus and the New Testament record that the Sadducees did not believe in an afterlife, but the sources vary on the beliefs of the Pharisees. The New Testament claims that the Pharisees believed in the resurrection, but does not specify whether this included the flesh or not. According to Josephus, who himself was a Pharisee, the Pharisees held that only the soul was immortal and the souls of good people will “pass into other bodies,” while “the souls of the wicked will suffer eternal punishment.” Paul, who also was a Pharisee, said that at the resurrection what is \"sown as a natural body is raised a spiritual body.\" Jubilees seems to refer to the resurrection of the soul only, or to a more general idea of an immortal soul.\n\nAccording to Herbert C. Brichto, writing in Reform Judaism's \"Hebrew Union College Annual\", the family tomb is the central concept in understanding biblical views of the afterlife. Brichto states that it is \"not mere sentimental respect for the physical remains that is...the motivation for the practice, but rather an assumed connection between proper sepulture and the condition of happiness of the deceased in the afterlife\".\n\nAccording to Brichto, the early Israelites apparently believed that the graves of family, or tribe, united into one, and that this unified collectivity is to what the Biblical Hebrew term Sheol refers, the common Grave of humans. Although not well defined in the Tanakh, Sheol in this view was a subterranean underworld where the souls of the dead went after the body died. The Babylonians had a similar underworld called Aralu, and the Greeks had one known as Hades. For biblical references to Sheol see Genesis 42:38, Isaiah 14:11, Psalm 141:7, Daniel 12:2, Proverbs 7:27 and Job 10:21,22, and 17:16, among others. According to Brichto, other Biblical names for Sheol were: Abaddon (ruin), found in Psalm 88:11, Job 28:22 and Proverbs 15:11; Bor (the pit), found in Isaiah 14:15, 24:22, Ezekiel 26:20; and Shakhat (corruption), found in Isaiah 38:17, Ezekiel 28:8.\n\nIn Christianity, resurrection most critically concerns the resurrection of Jesus, but also includes the resurrection of Judgment Day known as the resurrection of the dead by those Christians who subscribe to the Nicene Creed (which is the majority or Mainstream Christianity), as well as the resurrection miracles done by Jesus and the prophets of the Old Testament (see Judaism and Samaritanism below).\n\nChristians regard the resurrection of Jesus as the central doctrine in Christianity. Others take the incarnation of Jesus to be more central; however, it is the miracles – and particularly his resurrection – which provide validation of his incarnation. According to Paul, the entire Christian faith hinges upon the centrality of the resurrection of Jesus and the hope for a life after death. The Apostle Paul wrote in his first letter to the Corinthians:\nDuring the Ministry of Jesus on earth, before his death, Jesus commissioned his Twelve Apostles to, among other things, raise the dead. In the New Testament, Jesus is said to have raised several persons from death. These resurrections included the daughter of Jairus shortly after death, a young man in the midst of his own funeral procession, and Lazarus, who had been buried for four days. According to the Gospel of Matthew, after Jesus's resurrection, many of those previously dead came out of their tombs and entered Jerusalem, where they appeared to many.\n\nSimilar resurrections are credited to the apostles and Catholic saints. In the Acts of the Apostles, Saint Peter raised a woman named Dorcas (also called Tabitha), and Paul the Apostle revived a man named Eutychus who had fallen asleep and fell from a window to his death. Following the Apostolic Age, many saints were said to resurrect the dead, as recorded in Orthodox Christian hagiographies. St Columba supposedly raised a boy from the dead in the land of Picts.\n\nMost Christians understand these miraculous resurrections to be of a different nature than the resurrection of Jesus and the future resurrection of the dead. The raising of Lazarus and others from the dead could also be called \"resuscitations\" or \"reanimations\", since the life given to them is presumably temporary in nature. In contrast, the resurrection of Jesus and the future resurrection of the dead has abolished death once and for all (see , , , ).\n\nChristianity started as a religious movement within 1st-century Judaism (late Second Temple Judaism), and it retains what the New Testament itself claims was the Pharisaic belief in the afterlife and Resurrection of the Dead. Whereas this belief was only one of many beliefs held about the World to Come in Second Temple Judaism, and was notably rejected by both the Sadducees and, according to Josephus, the Pharisees, this belief became dominant within Early Christianity and already in the Gospels of Luke and John included an insistence on the resurrection of the flesh. Most modern Christian churches continue to uphold the belief that there will be a final resurrection of the dead and World to Come, perhaps as prophesied by the Apostle Paul when he said: \"...he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world...\" (Acts 17:31 KJV) and \"...there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.\" (Acts 24:15 KJV).\n\nBelief in the resurrection of the dead, and Jesus' role as judge, is codified in the Apostles' Creed, which is the fundamental creed of Christian baptismal faith. The Book of Revelation also makes many references about the Day of Judgment when the dead will be raised.\n\nIn Platonic philosophy and other Greek philosophical thought, at death the soul was said to leave the inferior body behind. The idea that Jesus was resurrected spiritually rather than physically even gained popularity among some Christian teachers, whom the author of 1 John declared to be antichrists. Similar beliefs appeared in the early church as Gnosticism. However, in Luke 24:39, the resurrected Jesus expressly states \"behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see I have.\"\n\nThere are folklore, stories, and extractions from certain holy texts that refer to resurrections. One major folklore is that of Savitri saving her husband's life from Yamraj. In the Ramayana, after Ravana was slayed by Rama in a great battle between good and evil, Rama requests the king of Gods, Indra, to restore the lives of all the monkeys who died in the great battle.\n\nBelief in the \"Day of Resurrection\", \"Yawm al-Qiyāmah\" () is also crucial for Muslims. They believe the time of \"Qiyāmah\" is preordained by God but unknown to man. The trials and tribulations preceding and during the \"Qiyāmah\" are described in the Qur'an and the hadith, and also in the commentaries of scholars. The Qur'an emphasizes bodily resurrection, a break from the pre-Islamic Arabian understanding of death.\n\nThere are stories in Buddhism where the power of resurrection was allegedly demonstrated in Chan or Zen tradition. One is the legend of Bodhidharma, the Indian master who brought the Ekayana school of India to China that subsequently became Chan Buddhism.\n\nThe other is the passing of Chinese Chan master Puhua (J., Fuke) and is recounted in the Record of Linji (J., Rinzai). Puhua was known for his unusual behavior and teaching style so it is no wonder that he is associated with an event that breaks the usual prohibition on displaying such powers. Here is the account from Irmgard Schloegl's \"The Zen Teaching of Rinzai\".\n\nCryonics is the low-temperature preservation of humans who cannot be sustained by contemporary medicine, with the hope that healing and resuscitation may be possible in the future. Cryonics procedures ideally begin within minutes of cardiac arrest, and use cryoprotectants to prevent ice formation during cryopreservation. However, the idea of cryonics also includes preservation of people long after death because of the possibility that brain encoding memory structure and personality may still persist or be inferable in the future. Whether sufficient brain information still exists for cryonics to successfully preserve may be intrinsically unprovable by present knowledge. Therefore, most proponents of cryonics see it as an intervention with prospects for success that vary widely depending on circumstances.\n\nRussian Cosmist Nikolai Fyodorovich Fyodorov advocated resurrection of the dead using scientific methods. Fedorov tried to plan specific actions for scientific research of the possibility of restoring life and making it infinite. His first project is connected with collecting and synthesizing decayed remains of dead based on \"knowledge and control over all atoms and molecules of the world\". The second method described by Fedorov is genetic-hereditary. The revival could be done successively in the ancestral line: sons and daughters restore their fathers and mothers, they in turn restore their parents and so on. This means restoring the ancestors using the hereditary information that they passed on to their children. Using this genetic method it is only possible to create a genetic twin of the dead person. It is necessary to give back the revived person his old mind, his personality. Fedorov speculates about the idea of \"radial images\" that may contain the personalities of the people and survive after death. Nevertheless, Fedorov noted that even if a soul is destroyed after death, Man will learn to restore it whole by mastering the forces of decay and fragmentation.\n\nIn his 1994 book \"The Physics of Immortality\", American physicist Frank J. Tipler, an expert on the general theory of relativity, presented his Omega Point Theory which outlines how a resurrection of the dead could take place at the end of the cosmos. He posits that humans will evolve into robots which will turn the entire cosmos into a supercomputer which will, shortly before the big crunch, perform the resurrection within its cyberspace, reconstructing formerly dead humans (from information captured by the supercomputer from the past light cone of the cosmos) as avatars within its metaverse.\n\nDavid Deutsch, British physicist and pioneer in the field of quantum computing, agrees with Tipler's Omega Point cosmology and the idea of resurrecting deceased people with the help of quantum computers but he is critical of Tipler's theological views.\n\nItalian physicist and computer scientist Giulio Prisco presents the idea of \"quantum archaeology\", \"reconstructing the life, thoughts, memories, and feelings of any person in the past, up to any desired level of detail, and thus resurrecting the original person via 'copying to the future'\".\n\nIn his book \"Mind Children\", roboticist Hans Moravec proposed that a future supercomputer might be able to resurrect long-dead minds from the information that still survived. For example, this information can be in the form of memories, filmstrips, medical records, and DNA.\n\nRay Kurzweil, American inventor and futurist, believes that when his concept of singularity comes to pass, it will be possible to resurrect the dead by digital recreation.\n\nIn their science fiction novel \"The Light of Other Days\", Sir Arthur Clarke and Stephen Baxter imagine a future civilization resurrecting the dead of past ages by reaching into the past, through micro wormholes and with nanorobots, to download full snapshots of brain states and memories.\n\nBoth the Church of Perpetual Life and the Terasem Movement consider themselves transreligions and advocate for the use of technology to indefinitely extend the human lifespan.\n\nA zombie (Haitian French: \"\", ) is a fictional undead being created through the reanimation of a human corpse. Zombies are most commonly found in horror and fantasy genre works. The term comes from Haitian folklore, where a \"zombie\" is a dead body reanimated through various methods, most commonly magic.\n\nAs knowledge of different religions has grown, so have claims of bodily disappearance of some religious and mythological figures. In ancient Greek religion, this was a way the gods made some physically immortal, including such figures as Cleitus, Ganymede, Menelaus, and Tithonus. After his death, Cycnus was changed into a swan and vanished. In his chapter on Romulus from Parallel Lives, Plutarch criticises the continuous belief in such disappearances, referring to the allegedly miraculous disappearance of the historical figures Romulus, Cleomedes of Astypalaea, and Croesus. In ancient times, Greek and Roman pagan similarities were explained by the early Christian writers, such as Justin Martyr, as the work of demons, with the intention of leading Christians astray.\n\nIn the Epic of King Gesar, Geesar, at the end, chants on a mountain top and his clothes fall empty to the ground. The body of the first Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Nanak Dev, is said to have disappeared and flowers left in place of his dead body.\n\nLord Raglan's Hero Pattern lists many religious figures whose bodies disappear, or have more than one sepulchre. B. Traven, author of \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\", wrote that the Inca Virococha arrived at Cusco (in modern-day Peru) and the Pacific seacoast where he walked across the water and vanished. It has been thought that teachings regarding the purity and incorruptibility of the hero's human body are linked to this phenomenon. Perhaps, this is also to deter the practice of disturbing and collecting the hero's remains. They are safely protected if they have disappeared.\n\nThe first such case mentioned in the Bible is that of Enoch (son of Jared, great-grandfather of Noah, and father of Methuselah). Enoch is said to have lived a life where he \"walked with God\", after which \"he was not, for God took him\" (Genesis 5:1–18). In Deuteronomy (34:6) Moses is secretly buried. Elijah vanishes in a whirlwind 2 Kings (2:11). After hundreds of years these two earlier Biblical heroes suddenly reappear, and are seen walking with Jesus, then again vanish. Mark (9:2–8), Matthew (17:1–8) and Luke (9:28–33). The last time he is seen, Luke (24:51) alone tells of Jesus leaving his disciples by ascending into the sky.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57135596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57135596", "title": "Sadd colors", "text": "Sadd colors\n\nSadd colors or sad colors were the colors of choice for the clothing of the members of the Massachusetts Bay Colony in seventeenth century America (\"sadd\"/ \"sad\" carried the meaning of \"seriousness\" rather than \"sadness\"). The Puritans have often been depicted wearing simple black and white, but for them, the color \"black\" was itself considered too bold for regular use and was reserved for community elders and for highly formal occasions such as when having one's portrait painted. Black was considered so formal in part because black dye was difficult to obtain and black clothing had a tendency to fade to other colors rather quickly. The Puritans, then, designated a set of colors which they called \"sadd\" colors for their everyday use. These colors were deliberately subdued, and included such named colors as liver color, de Boys (the color of \"the wood\", from \"du bois\" in French), tawney, russet, rust, purple, French green (a very pale shade of gray-green), ginger lyne, deer color, orange, gridolin (from the French \"gris de lin\", \"flax blossom\", a color resembling periwinkle), puce, folding color, Kendall green (a dark variety of French green), Lincoln green (a more vivid shade of green akin to forest green), barry, milly, tuly, and philly mort (from the French words \"feuille morte\", \"dead leaf\", a dark gray-brown).\n"}
{"id": "27686169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27686169", "title": "Samay Huasi", "text": "Samay Huasi\n\nSamay Huasi (from Quechua \"Samay Wasi\", \"samay\" rest, to rest, \"wasi\" house, \"rest house\") is a historic property in Argentina functioning as both a vacation retreat, as well as a museum.\n\nLocated in Chilecito, a town located high in the Pampas Sierras of La Rioja Province, the property originally belonged to William Treloar, a British mining engineer who purchased it as a retirement property in the late 19th century. His earlier profession had acquainted him with Dr. Joaquín V. González, who was one of the nation's most prominent Mining Law attorneys, and had been Governor of La Rioja from 1889 to 1891. Treloar bequeathed \"La Carrera\", his scenic finca, to his friend, and González inherited the property in 1913.\n\nThe new owner kept Treloar's vineyards and orchards, expanded the living quarters, converted the horse stables into ten bedrooms for each of his sons, and renamed the finca \"Samay Huasi\". González, who served as President of the University of La Plata from 1905 to 1913, in turn willed Samay Huasi to the university, and died in 1923.\n\nThe University of La Plata formally took possession of Samay Huasi in 1941, and originally maintained it as the \"Casa de Descanso para Artistas y Escritores\", a vacation lodge for artists and writers; the lodge was later reserved of university staff. A portion was set aside in 1960 for the establishment of a museum displaying González's collections of anthropological and geological material, as well as his numerous manuscripts (he published over 50 books and 1,000 articles), and other belongings. The museum was named \"Mis Montañas\" in honor of González's 1903 book describing the nearby Talampaya area and other Andes landscapes.\n\nSamay Huasi also houses an art gallery, the Antonio Alice Pinacotheca. Named for Antonio Alice, an Argentine portraiteur and historical painter who (among many other works) had created a portrait of González in 1917, the gallery displays art from a variety of Argentine painters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2489524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2489524", "title": "Sepik Coast exchange", "text": "Sepik Coast exchange\n\nSepik Coast exchange is the method of social networking and alliance in the Sepik Coast area of Papua New Guinea.\n\nFamilies living along the Sepik Coast in northern Papua New Guinea form alliances with families in other communities. Depending on the importance and status of the family, it can have anywhere between 5 and 75 contacts in its social network. In each surrounding town, the family knows another. When they travel to another town, they bring gifts to their contact family, and that family will house and care for them. Gifts are reciprocated when given or later when families return the visit. Common gifts are sago, tobacco, baskets, wooden bowls, and other similar items. The recipient does not specify which type of gift they would like to receive, but as a result of the vast quantity of exchanges taking place, the needs of participants are generally met.\n\nA social field is one in which all the members have similar expectations of each other. In the social networks of the Sepik Coast, the significant expectations are hospitality, gift giving and reciprocation from friends in different villages. Alliances are passed along and preserved through many generations, because fathers bring their sons on their trips and families honor an association, no matter how long it has been since the last gift exchange.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20412489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20412489", "title": "Society for the Scientific Study of Religion", "text": "Society for the Scientific Study of Religion\n\nThe Society for the Scientific Study of Religion (founded in 1949) was formed to advance research in the social scientific perspective on religious institutions and experiences.\n\nThe \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\" is published by the Society to provide a forum for empirical papers in the topic area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5316594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5316594", "title": "The Imp of the Perverse", "text": "The Imp of the Perverse\n\nThe Imp of the Perverse is a metaphor for the urge to do exactly the wrong thing in a given situation for the sole reason that it is possible for wrong to be done. The impulse is compared to an imp (a small demon) which leads an otherwise decent person into mischief.\n\nThe phrase has a long history in literature, and was popularized (and perhaps coined) by Edgar Allan Poe in his short story, \"The Imp of the Perverse\".\n\nPoe explores this impulse through several of his fictional characters, the narrators in \"The Black Cat\" and in \"The Tell-Tale Heart\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17581985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17581985", "title": "The Taill of the Uponlandis Mous and the Burges Mous", "text": "The Taill of the Uponlandis Mous and the Burges Mous\n\n\"The Taill of the Uponlandis Mous and the Burges Mous\", also known as \"The Twa Mice,\" is a Middle Scots adaptation of Aesop's Fable \"The Town Mouse and the Country Mouse\" by the Scottish poet Robert Henryson. Written around the 1480s, it is the second poem in Henryson's collection called \"The Morall Fabillis of Esope the Phrygian\". \n\nHennryson's \"Fabill\" treats its characters and incidents with a realism that was hitherto unusual in the genre. Its ambiguous portrayal of the two protagonists seamlessly blends their animal and human characteristics in a way that allowed the makar to satirise new social classes in the rising \"burous touns\" of his day with subtle and philosophical irony.\n\nThe original fable plot is very simple. A town mouse visits a country cousin and is unimpressed at the poor quality of the fare. The town mouse invites the cousin back to her town house where the feasting is better. In town it is true that the food is better, more plentiful and very readily available, but the creatures are twice interrupted by inhabitants of the house. The country mouse does not stay to experience a third upset but returns home where the simple food can be enjoyed in peace. \n\nHenryson's \"second fabill\" is highly faithful to Aesop's basic structure. His expansion creates fully fleshed scenes from each of the elements and heightens the drama in a number of different ways while remaining essentially concise.\n\n\"Mous\" in Scots is pronounced with a short \"oo\" vowel, and Henryson's 15th-century spelling of the plural is \"myis.'\n\nHenryson's fabill describes the two mice as \"sisteris\" and presents the difference in their lifestyles using human and economic terms that lend them ambiguous overtones. The Uponlandis Mous survives with difficulty like an \"owtlaw\" living on \"uther mennis skaith\" (\"lit.\" harm, in the sense of toil, suggesting the corn planted by farmers) and going hungry in winter. By contrast, the Burges Mous in town has it easy and lives a privileged life like a \"gild brother\" able to move freely all year \"but custum mair or les\" (\"i.e.\" without paying tax) \"among the cheis in ark and meill in kist\". It is worth noting that just as Henryson blurs animal and human characteristics he also blurs the gender of the mice. \n\nThe taill features pictures of the mice travelling outside the city. When the Burges Mous decides to look for her sister, she sets out \"barefute, allone, with pykestaf in hir hand/ as pure pylgryme\", and the image is of a lost figure in rugged terrain of uncertain vastness. Their journey back to town even has unlawful overtones (though quite natural for a mouse) as the pair sleep by day and move by night as if in violation of a curfew. \n\nThe fabill has two main scenes. The first is set in the \"sober wane\" of the Uponlandis Mous, described as a frail dwelling of moss and fern set under a \"steidfast stane.\" It features some highly believable dialogue as the two sisters fall out over the quality of the hospitality and is only eight stanzas long. \n\nThe second scene, with equally swiftly described action, takes place in a spence \"with vittell grit plentie\" (a well-stocked pantry) in a town house described as being \"not fer fra thyne\" (\"lit.\" not far from your place). The first figure to interrupt their feast is the spencer. Henryson departs from Aesop's original by allowing only the Burges Mous a hole in which to escape. Her sister, finding nowhere to go, lies \"flatlings\" on the ground in terror. \n\nVisitation number two is a much more frightening development for the mice. After the spencer passes, the Burges persuades her reluctant sister to return to the burde, but \n\n(lines 325-6) \n\nThis time the Uponlandis Mous is lucky to escape with her life. After much cruel handling from the cat, she manages to win free only by climbing up between \"ane parraling\" and the wall. After the cat has gone, the mous decries her sister's lifestyle and returns home. \n\nThe fabill has a happy ending, but is qualified. The narrator reports in the final stanza only the rumour he has heard that the Uponlandis Mous lived happily ever after.\n\nThe second moralitas in the cycle is a short, beautifully composed paean to the virtues of self-sufficiency and self-control summed up in the line, \"Quha hes aneuch, of na mair hes he neid,\" a philosophy commonly expressed in many religions and cultures, most especially Daoism. The moralitas is one of the most straightforward and self-contained in Henryson's \"Morall Fabillis\" and is manifestly in harmony with the preceding taill (not always the case elsewhere). \n\nHenryson to some degree highlights the second moralitas as standing a little apart from the rest of the poem by composing its four stanzas in ballade form (the first of only two brief departures from rhyme royal in the cycle overall) while nevertheless simultaneously underlining the close link to the story by using a chain of rhyme that runs from the end of the taill into the beginning of the moralitas. Despite employing conventional moral expressions and warnings, the ultimate effect is surprisingly moving. \n\nThe first word addresses the audience in intimate and familiar terms as \"friendis\" (pronounced in Scots with a short \"ee\" vowel).\n\n\"The Uponlandis Mous and the Burges Mous\" contains several references to \"meit\" (food) eaten by the mice. Comparisons of the bill of fare between the two locales (town and country) reveal differences. \n\nThe simple (generally unprocessed) foods associated with the rural existence are: \n\n\nThis list ends with \"candill insteid of spyce\" (perhaps also involving a pun with Scots \"cannel\"). \n\nThe foods associated with the urban setting, on the other hand, are effectively household produce: \n\n\nOnce again, the list is completed with \"quhyte candill to gust thair mouth withall\". \n\nThe Uponlandis Mous refers to \"the seithing of ane kow\" (pronounced \"coo\") (line 235) as an illustration of excess, while the Burges Mous rather ly invokes Christian dietary codes when she boasts, \"My Gude Friday is better nor your Pace\" (line 248). The Uponlandis Mous ultimately complains of the urban fare, \"Thy guse is gude, thy gansell sour as gall\" (line 345) and the narrator in the moralitas refers to \"fitches\" and \"seid\" (line 367). \n\nOne point of equivalence in dietary matters between the two scenes is the reference in both to candlewax as the condiment the mice use (instead of spice) to add gust or \"flavour\" to their meals, while on the matter of drink, Henryson makes a special point that the mice \"drink the watter cleir/ insteid of wyne\" (lines 272-3).\n\nThe fabill is a taill of 29 stanzas with a moralitas of 4 stanzas. \n\n\nThe last stanza of the taill is an endnote to the action giving the narrator's conclusion. This produces a division: \n\n\nIf the point at which the mice pass in company from country to town is taken as the fundamental point of division between the two scenes in the taill, then the action can be further divided: \n\n\nThe first major turning point in the action (the Uponlandis Mousis sudden consent to follow her sister back to town) occurs in the last line of stanza 13.\n\nWhen the \"Burges Mous\" ventures forth to seek her rural cousin beyond the confines of city, the picture of her as a figure in a landscape (created in a very few words) produces a highly ambiguous sense of scale: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6458088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6458088", "title": "When the going gets tough, the tough get going", "text": "When the going gets tough, the tough get going\n\n\"When the going gets tough, the tough get going\" is a popular proverb.meaning::\n\nThe phrase is a play on words involving idiomatic (Proverb) and distinct meanings of \"go\" and \"tough.\" In context, \"the going\" means \"the situation,\" \"gets tough\" means \"becomes difficult,\" \"the tough\" means \"people who are strong or enduring,\" and \"get going\" means \"become fully engaged.\" Taken together, the meaning of the phrase is \"When the situation becomes difficult, the strong will become engaged.\"\n\nThe phrase is an example of antimetabole.\n\nAnother interpretation could mean, \"Those who act tough and proud will vacate a situation when it becomes difficult lest they be proven not as tough as they appear to be.\"\n\nThe origin of the phrase has been attributed both to Joseph P. Kennedy (1888–1969), father of U.S. President John F. Kennedy, and sometimes to Norwegian-born American football player and coach Knute Rockne (1888–1931). Currently it is used as a management motivational talk and is popular in many self-help books. \n"}
{"id": "43952785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43952785", "title": "Whitey (slang)", "text": "Whitey (slang)\n\nWhitey is a slang term for a white person, mostly of non-Mediterranean European ancestry, often used in a pejorative manner. Whitey is used in juxtaposition to other ethnic slurs based upon a race's skin color, such as redskin and negro. The level of contempt held with the term varies, but one of the more severe pejorative examples is shown by the \"Kill Whitey\" tattoo on the cheek of Maruse Heath.\n\nIt is difficult to trace the origin, but presumably it is derived from \"white\" as color terminology for race. There are many examples of the term being used in pop culture from Michelle Obama denying that she used the term and instead said \"that’s something that George Jefferson would say.\" Richard Pryor also used the term on national television on a Saturday Night Live skit in 1975.\n"}
{"id": "3736229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3736229", "title": "Working language", "text": "Working language\n\nA working language (also procedural language) is a language that is given a unique legal status in a supranational company, society, state or other body or organization as its primary means of communication. It is primarily the language of the daily correspondence and conversation, since the organization usually has members with various differing language backgrounds.\n\nMost international organizations have working languages for their bodies. For a given organization, a working language may or may not also be an official language.\n\nOriginally English and French were established as working languages at the UN. Later, Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Spanish were added as working languages in the General Assembly and in the Economic and Social Council. Currently, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish are the working languages of the Security Council.\n\nThe International Criminal Court has two working languages: English and French; all Secretaries-General of the UN, therefore, . The Council of Europe and NATO also have English and French as their two working languages.\n\nThe World Organization of the Scout Movement (WOSM) has English and French as official languages, with Arabic, Russian and Spanish as additional working languages.\n\n\nThe World Trade Organization, the International Telecommunications Union, the International Maritime Organization, the International Labour Organization, NAFTA and the Free Trade Area of the Americas all have three working languages: English, French and Spanish.\n\n\n"}
