{"id": "43910109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43910109", "title": "Alejandro Cremades", "text": "Alejandro Cremades\n\nAlejandro Cremades (born in Zurich in 1985) is a Spanish author and entrepreneur based in New York City.\n\nBorn to Bernardo Cremades and Leticia Roman, Cremades attended primary school and high school at Colegio Retamar.\n\nAt the age of 22, he moved to the United States after obtaining his law degree at Universidad San Pablo CEU. In 2009 he obtained a master's degree in International Business and Trade Law at Fordham Law School.\n\nSince August 2008, Cremades has been living in New York City, United States. Cremades has guest lectured on \"entrepreneurship\" at New York University Stern School of Business in New York, at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Columbia Business School. He has written articles on business and entrepreneurship that have been published in several international publications and has spoken at conferences.\n\nCremades has been featured on the Top 30 Under 30 lists of GQ Magazine, Entrepreneur Magazine, and Vanity Fair. He was also featured by TechCrunch as one of the expats that is shaping New York's tech.\n\nIn 2010, Cremades founded Rock the Post with the goal to help entrepreneurs, including those without strong business connections, raise funds and gain exposure. The site was launched in November 2011. Initially the platform offered projects that could receive funding or in-kind contributions (e.g., time and/or materials), but switched to equity and debt based funding only.\n\nOn July 16, 2014, RockThePost announced the acquisition of CoFoundersLab, an online and in person matchmaking network that claims to build startup teams scientifically, creating a platform with over 70,000 startup founders and 30,000 investors registered. The new combined entity is operating as Onevest.\n\nOn July 27, 2016, Cremades announced that Onevest was acquiring its major direct competitor, FounderDating, in order to merge that platform with its very own CoFoundersLab. According to the announcement the result of the acquisition would increase the number of registered entrepreneurs to over 300,000 on the platform and now providing services to entrepreneurs that would range from idea to funding and beyond.\n\nOn April 11, 2018, Onevest/CoFoundersLab was acquired by Business Rockstars. At this point the company had over 400,000 active registered members. The deal was worth millions according to a post published by Cremades on Forbes where he describes the 10 biggest lessons during the journey of building the company.\n\nOn June 6, 2013, Cremades testified at the U.S. House Committee on Small Business to voice his stance on the challenges the company was facing as a changing industry and the future of equity crowdfunding.\n\nCremades is also a member of the Advisory Committee of the Spain U.S. Start-Up initiative of the Spain-U.S. Chamber of Commerce.\n\nCremades is the author of \"The Art of Startup Fundraising\", published by John Wiley & Sons. In addition to having a foreword by Shark Tank‘s Barbara Corcoran, in the book Cremades tries to distill everything he has learned in the past years down into an actionable guidebook for angel investors and startup founders. The book provides guidance on how startup funding works. Cremades also covers how the JOBS Act impacts the fundraising model, insights on startups from early stage to growth stage, crafting presentations and optimizing the strategy, building momentum, identifying the right investors, and avoiding the common mistakes. Geoffrey James, contributing editor for the magazine \"Inc.\", named it one of 2016's best books for entrepreneurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "8583363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8583363", "title": "André Leysen", "text": "André Leysen\n\nAndré Leysen (11 June 1927 – 11 July 2015) was a Belgian businessman. In 1951, he married Anne Ahlers, daughter of a shipping family from Bremen, Germany. Together they have four children: Bettina, Christian, Thomas, and Sabina. André Leysen, at age of 17, was a member of the Hitler Youth during World War II.\n\nFrom 1952 until 1976 he worked for the shipping company Ahlers N.V., Antwerp (family estate). Since 1974 he is a member of the supervisory board of the Agfa-Gevaert group, (Belgium). From 1978 until 1984 he was a member and chairman of the executive committee of the Agfa Gevaert group, and since 1984 he is chairman of the supervisory board.\n\nIn 1976, he was one of the co-founders of the VUM, which took over the newspapers of the Standaard group after its bankruptcy. He led the VUM until 1978, when his son Thomas took over. From 1990 until 1994 he was a member of the presidency in the board of directors of the Treuhandanstalt in Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8296122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8296122", "title": "Anthony Bolton", "text": "Anthony Bolton\n\nAnthony Bolton (born 7 March 1950) is one of the UK's best known investment fund managers and most successful investors, having managed the Fidelity Special Situations fund from December 1979 to December 2007. Over this 28-year period the fund achieved annualised growth of 19.5%, far in excess of the 13.5% growth of the wider stock exchange, turning a £1,000 investment into £147,000. \nUntil April 2014 he managed Fidelity China Special Situations PLC, a London Stock Exchange listed investment trust.\n\nEducated at Stowe School and Trinity College, Cambridge, Bolton left with a degree in engineering and business studies. He pursued a career in the city where, age 29, he was recruited by Fidelity as one of their first London based investment managers. He is now President of Investments at Fidelity International Limited  and manager of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.\n\nBolton began managing Special Situations (a UK equity OEIC) when he joined Fidelity in 1979 and continued until 2007. He managed other funds alongside Special Situations during this time. From November 1985 to December 2002, he managed the Fidelity European Fund (a European equity OEIC). He managed Fidelity European Growth fund (a European equity SICAV) from 1990 to 2003, Fidelity European Values PLC (a UK-listed investment trust) from 1991 to 2001 and Fidelity Special Values PLC (also a UK-listed investment trust) from 1994 to 2007.\n\nIn 2006 his Special Situations Fund was split. The success of the fund had brought in so much money from investors, it had become the UK's largest open ended fund (OEIC) and it was feared that the fund was becoming too big to manage successfully.  The fund was split into UK and Global Special Situations funds, with the Global fund passed to Jorma Korhornen and the UK fund continuing under Bolton's stewardship until the end of 2007.  With Bolton's step back from fund management, many questioned whether the fund could continue to outperform the market in future. \nSanjeev Shah succeeded Anthony Bolton as the manager of the UK Special Situations Fund in January 2008. The fund remained in the first decile over the first two years of Shah's tenure. \nBolton's former funds suffered amongst the worst redemptions in 2007. Investors withdrew £335m from the Special Situations fund and £508m from Global Special Situations. However, redemptions in both funds slowed significantly in 2008 and in March 2010, at £3 billion, the UK fund is almost back to the same size as when Bolton stepped down. \n\nWhen he ceased managing funds in 2007, he took a full-time role mentoring and developing newer investment managers.\n\nIn 2009 he announced his return to fund management and in April 2010 moved to Hong Kong to begin managing the newly launched Fidelity China Special Situations PLC, an investment trust listed on the London Stock Exchange.  The Trust is fairly unusual among Investment Trusts in paying a commission (0.5%) to financial advisers, paid out of its 1.5% annual management charge, a feature standard with Unit Trusts such as the Fidelity Special Situations fund Bolton had previously managed, but uncommon in the Investment Trust world. Another unusual feature is that the Trust charges a performance fee if the fund's cumulative performance exceeds its benchmark, the MSCI China Index, by more than 2%, which is charged at 15% of any outperformance, to a maximum fee of 1.5% per year.\n\nThe higher than usual charges, along with uncertainty over Bolton's long-term commitment to the fund, have led to criticism of the fund. Despite this criticism, the fund has attracted high levels of investment, being fully subscribed at £460 million on issue in April 2010, and was initially trading at a premium to its net asset value due to high demand for the shares, whereas most investment trusts trade at a discount (in reflection of the fact that management costs damage returns). A second share issue in February 2011 was also fully subscribed, raising £166.5 million.\n\nAlthough initially performing well, the fund suffered in 2011, and as of 14 November 2011 it was 5th out of 6 trusts in its sector, losing 34% of its value in 2011 and trading at 78p, well below its £1 initial flotation price.\n\nBolton has three children. In his spare time he relaxes by composing music and cites Benjamin Britten as his biggest influence. His compositions have been performed at St Paul's Cathedral. He is a keen traveller and has a holiday home in Antigua. \n\nIn September 2009 he was a guest on \"Private Passions\", the biographical music discussion programme on BBC Radio 3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51191235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51191235", "title": "Artistri Sud", "text": "Artistri Sud\n\nArtistri Sud is a registered charity that provides entrepreneurship training to women artisans in developing countries. The organization was founded in 2009 by Jennifer Lonergan and has implemented entrepreneurship training programs for women artisans and artisan groups in countries including Bolivia, Chile, Cambodia, India and Zimbabwe.\n\nBased in Montreal, Artistri Sud has built a following in Canada and abroad, using mainstream and social media platforms to raise awareness. The organization also hosts an annual fundraising event around International Women’s Day each year, recognizing local Montreal entrepreneurs for their work.\n\nThe organization’s founder and executive director, Jennifer Lonergan, is the organization's only paid employee. All other positions are filled by volunteers and interns. Artistri Sud has around 50 volunteers, and about 90% of them are women.\n\nAll donations made and grants received are used to fund the entrepreneurship training programs the organization implements in developing countries to empower women.\n\nPrior to launching the nonprofit, executive director Lonergan opened a retail store in 2008, Artistri Atelier Boutique. The idea was to support women craftspeople both in Canada and in the developing world by promoting and selling their work in the store. The retail store is now closed.\n\nToday the nonprofit’s main activity is the implementation of its entrepreneurship training programs in the developing world, to empower women artisans to run their own micro-enterprises and earn a sustainable income to support themselves and their families.\n"}
{"id": "14295094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14295094", "title": "Business continuance volume", "text": "Business continuance volume\n\nIn disk arrays, a business continuance volume, or BCV, is EMC Corporation's term for an independently addressable copy of a data volume, that uses advanced mirroring technique for business continuity purposes.\n\nBCVs can be detached from the active data storage at a point in time and mounted on non-critical servers to facilitate offline backup or parallel processing. Once offline processes are completed, these BCVs can be either:\n\nThere are two types of BCVs:\n\n"}
{"id": "1266567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266567", "title": "Business journalism", "text": "Business journalism\n\nBusiness journalism is the part of journalism that tracks, records, analyzes and interprets the business, economic and financial activities and changes that take place in societies. Topics widely cover the entire purview of all commercial activities related to the economy.\n\nThis area of journalism provides news and feature articles about people, places and issues related to the business sector. Most newspapers, magazines, radio, and television-news shows include a business segment. Detailed and in-depth business journalism may appear in publications, radio, and television channels dedicated specifically to business and financial journalism.\n\nBusiness journalism began as early as the Middle Ages, to help well-known trading families communicate with each other. \n\nAround 1700, Daniel Defoe--best known for his novels especially \"Robinson Crusoe\"-- began publishing business and economic news. In 1882 Charles Dow, Edward Jones and Charles Bergstresser began a wire service that delivered news to investment houses along Wall Street. And in 1889, \"The Wall Street Journal\" began publishing. While the famous muckraking journalist Ida Tarbell did not consider herself to be a business reporter, her reporting and writing about the Standard Oil Co. in 1902 provided the template for how thousands of business journalists have covered companies ever since. Business coverage gained prominence in the 1990s, with wider investment in the stock market. \"The Wall Street Journal\" is one prominent example of business journalism, and is among the United States of America's top newspapers in terms of both circulation and respect for the journalists whose work appears there.\n\nJournalists who work in this branch are classed as \"business journalists\". Their main task is to gather information about current events as they related to business. They may also cover processes, trends, consequences, and important people, in business and disseminate their work through all types of mass media.\n\nBusiness journalism, although common in most industrialized countries, has a very limited role in third-world and developing countries. This leaves citizens of such countries in a very disadvantaged position locally and internationally. Recent efforts to bring business media to these countries have proven to be worthwhile.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30062451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30062451", "title": "Central Product Classification", "text": "Central Product Classification\n\nThe Central Product Classification (CPC) is a product classification for goods and services promulgated by the United Nations Statistical Commission. It is intended to be an international standard for organizing and analyzing data on industrial production, national accounts, trade, prices and so on.\n\nThe European Union's \"Classification of Products by Activity\" (CPA) is based on CPC. \n\nClassification of Types of Construction\n\n"}
{"id": "3460277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3460277", "title": "Charles Buxton Going", "text": "Charles Buxton Going\n\nCharles Buxton Going (April 4, 1863 - 1952 in France) was an American engineer, author, and editor.\n\nBorn in Westchester N.Y., Going attended Columbia College School of Mines, where he graduated in 1882. Columbia University awarded him the honorary degree of M.Sc. in 1910.\n\nMr. Going immediately began work in the Middle West in industrial and corporate management. He joined the staff of the \"Engineering Magazine\" in 1896, becoming managing editor in 1898 and editor in 1912. He did much to discern, define, and establish the profession of \"industrial engineering.\"\n\nHe became special lecturer on the subject of \"industrial engineering\" at Columbia, Harvard University, New York University, and the University of Chicago.\n\nHis writings include:\nOn less scholarly notes, he wrote:\n\nIn collaboration with Marie Overton Corbin (later Mrs. Going, d. May 1925), he wrote:\n"}
{"id": "6961332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6961332", "title": "Clawback", "text": "Clawback\n\nA clawback or clawback provision is a special contractual clause typically included in employment contracts by financial firms, by which money already paid must be paid back under certain conditions. The term also is in use in bankruptcy matters where insiders may have raided assets prior to a filing, and in Medicaid, when a state recovers costs of long-term care or covered medical expenses from the estates of deceased Medicaid patients. The aim of the clause is to secure an option for an employer or trustee to limit bonuses, compensation or other remuneration in case of catastrophic shifts in business, bankruptcy, and national crisis as the financial crisis of 2007–2008, and for states to recoup the cost of administering Medicaid services.\n\nThe term clawbacks or claw backs can also be used to refer to any money or benefits that have been given out but need to be returned due to special circumstances or events, which are mentioned in a contract.\n\nThe employees' bonuses are, in a clawback scheme, tied specifically to the performance (or lack thereof) of the financial product(s) the individual(s) may have created and/or sold as part of his or her job expecting a high profit. If the product does indeed do well over a long period of time, and permanently improves the nature of the firm, the bonuses paid to the individual are allowed to be retained by the individual. However, if the product fails, and damages the nature of the firm—even years down the line from the product's inception—then the firm has the inherent right to revoke, reclaim, or otherwise repossess some or all of the bonus amount(s). However, research shows managers who are subject to clawback provisions that are newly in place in a company often try to offset their increased risk of bonus clawback by demanding an increase in base salary that is not subject to being clawed back.\n\nThe prevalence of clawback provisions among Fortune 100 companies increased from lower than 3% prior to 2005 to 82% in 2010. The growing popularity of clawback provisions is likely, at least in part, due to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to pursue the repayment of incentive compensation from senior executives that are involved in a fraud. In practice, the Securities and Exchange commission has enforced its clawback powers in only a small number of cases.\n\nThe Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 mandates the SEC to require that U.S. public companies include a clawback provision in their executive compensation contracts that is triggered by any accounting restatement, regardless of fault (whereas the clawback provisions per the Sarbanes-Oxley Act only applied to intentional fraud). As of mid 2015, this portion of the Dodd-Frank Act has yet to be implemented. \n\nThe usual objective of a clawback provision is to deter managers from publishing incorrect accounting information. Academic research finds that voluntarily adopted clawback provisions appear to be effective at reducing both intentional and unintentional accounting errors. The same study also finds that investors have greater confidence in a firm's financial statements after clawback adoption, and that boards of directors place greater weight on accounting numbers in executive bonuses after a clawback is in place (i.e., pay for performance sensitivity increases).\n\nAccording to a December 2010 \"New Yorker\" magazine article, the clawback phenomenon pursued by banks and other financial groups directly and/or indirectly responsible for the financial crisis has been used by the chief administrators of those institutions in order to make the case that they are presently taking tangible self-corrective action to both prevent another crisis (by supposedly dis-incentivizing the sorts of shady investment-product behavior displayed by their people in the recent past) and to appropriately punish any potential future activity of a similar or identical sort. However, the case is made in \"The New Yorker\" article (which cites several professional economists who agree with its perspective) that it is probably unlikely that either result will become the case, and \"The New Yorker\" article also alleges that the people making this argument may not even truly believe it, but are instead promoting it as a sort of public relations tactic until such time as the impact of the financial crisis fades and similar (perhaps near-identical) abuses of the financial system can slowly and quietly resume, with minimal or no detection by outside forces.\n\nIn the past, clawback phenomena have been used primarily in securing tax incentives, abatements, refunds and grants. Clawbacks are distinguished from repayments or refunds as they involve a penalty in addition to a repayment.\n\nThe use of tax incentives for attracting jobs and capital investment has grown over the past twenty odd years to include performance measures from which to gauge a company's growth. Typical measures are:\n\n\nMore unusual measures are retaining a headquarters at a specific site for a period of time, amount of production increase or production cost decrease per unit or the requirement to bring a given technology to a commercial market. The recipient will be required to return the monetary value of the incentive plus a penalty and/or interest to the grantor of the incentive, usually a local or state taxing authority. As the use of incentives mature over time, it is sometimes alleged that the triggering of clawbacks for non performance will likely become more ubiquitous.\n\nClawbacks can be understood to be the contractual elements that stand between the drive for economic development and community development and the slippery slope of corporate welfare. They are highly controversial and are utilized as community based guarantees for some expectation of performance. The site location industry normally tries to eliminate or reduce any such promises as part of their negotiations.\n\nClawbacks are also used by most banks and lenders to recover money from \"unprofitable\" home loans. This is usually done when the borrower pays back the loan in a short period of time, usually within 24 months of the loan advancement.\n\nIn Australia this fee is usually 0.77% of the total loan amount for loans paid back within the first 12 months after the settlement and 0.385% within 24 months. If a borrower is using a mortgage broker for their home loan, then the broker will usually charge them this amount.\n\nSee Medicaid#Clawback controversy.\n"}
{"id": "5797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5797", "title": "Cluster sampling", "text": "Cluster sampling\n\nCluster sampling is a sampling plan used when mutually homogeneous yet internally heterogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population. It is often used in marketing research. In this sampling plan, the total population is divided into these groups (known as clusters) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected. The elements in each cluster are then sampled. If all elements in each sampled cluster are sampled, then this is referred to as a \"one-stage\" cluster sampling plan. If a simple random subsample of elements is selected within each of these groups, this is referred to as a \"two-stage\" cluster sampling plan. A common motivation for cluster sampling is to reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy. For a fixed sample size, the expected random error is smaller when most of the variation in the population is present internally within the groups, and not between the groups.\n\nThe population within a cluster should ideally be as heterogeneous as possible, but there should be homogeneity between clusters. Each cluster should be a small-scale representation of the total population. The clusters should be mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive. A random sampling technique is then used on any relevant clusters to choose which clusters to include in the study. In single-stage cluster sampling, all the elements from each of the selected clusters are sampled. In two-stage cluster sampling, a random sampling technique is applied to the elements from each of the selected clusters.\n\nThe main difference between cluster sampling and stratified sampling is that in cluster sampling the cluster is treated as the sampling unit so sampling is done on a population of clusters (at least in the first stage). In stratified sampling, the sampling is done on elements within each strata. In stratified sampling, a random sample is drawn from each of the strata, whereas in cluster sampling only the selected clusters are sampled. A common motivation of cluster sampling is to reduce costs by increasing sampling efficiency. This contrasts with stratified sampling where the motivation is to increase precision.\n\nThere is also multistage cluster sampling, where at least two stages are taken in selecting elements from clusters.\n\nWithout modifying the estimated parameter, cluster sampling is unbiased when the clusters are approximately the same size. In this case, the parameter is computed by combining all the selected clusters. When the clusters are of different sizes, probability proportionate to size sampling is used. In this sampling plan, the probability of selecting a cluster is proportional to its size, so that a large clusters has a greater probability of selection than a small cluster. However, when clusters are selected with probability proportionate to size, the same number of interviews should be carried out in each sampled cluster so that each unit sampled has the same probability of selection.\n\nAn example of cluster sampling is area sampling or geographical cluster sampling. Each cluster is a geographical area. Because a geographically dispersed population can be expensive to survey, greater economy than simple random sampling can be achieved by grouping several respondents within a local area into a cluster. It is usually necessary to increase the total sample size to achieve equivalent precision in the estimators, but cost savings may make such an increase in sample size feasible.\n\nCluster sampling is used to estimate high mortalities in cases such as wars, famines and natural disasters.\n\nMajor use: when sampling frame of all elements is not available we can resort only to the cluster sampling.\n\n\nErrors: The other probabilistic methods give fewer errors than this method. For this reason, it is discouraged for beginners.\n\nTwo-stage cluster sampling, a simple case of multistage sampling, is obtained by selecting cluster samples in the first stage and then selecting sample of elements from every sampled cluster. Consider a population of \"N\" clusters in total. In the first stage, \"n\" clusters are selected using ordinary cluster sampling method. In the second stage, simple random sampling is usually used. It is used separately in every cluster and the numbers of elements selected from different clusters are not necessarily equal. The total number of clusters \"N\", number of clusters selected \"n\", and numbers of elements from selected clusters need to be pre-determined by the survey designer. Two-stage cluster sampling aims at minimizing survey costs and at the same time controlling the uncertainty related to estimates of interest. This method can be used in health and social sciences. For instance, researchers used two-stage cluster sampling to generate a representative sample of the Iraqi population to conduct mortality surveys. Sampling in this method can be quicker and more reliable than other methods, which is why this method is now used frequently.\n\nCluster sampling methods can lead to significant bias when working with a small number of clusters. For instance, it can be necessary to cluster at the state or city level, units that may be small and fixed in number. Microeconometrics methods for panel data often use short panels, which is analogous to having few observations per clusters and many clusters. The small cluster problem can be viewed as an incidental parameter problem. While the point estimates can be reasonably precisely estimated, if the number of observations per cluster is sufficiently high, we need the number of clusters formula_1 for the asymptotics to kick in. If the number of clusters is low the estimated covariance matrix can be downward biased.\n\nSmall numbers of clusters is a risk when there is serial correlation or when there is intraclass correlation as in the Moulton context. When having few clusters, we tend to underestimate serial correlation across observations when a random shock occurs, or the intraclass correlation in a Moulton setting. Several studies have highlighted the consequences of serial correlation correlation and highlighted the small-cluster problem.\n\nIn the framework of the Moulton factor, an intuitive explanation of the small cluster problem can be derived from the formula for the Moulton factor. Assume for simplicity that the number of observation per cluster is fixed at \"n\". Below, formula_2 stands for the covariance matrix adjusted for clustering, formula_3 stands for the covariance matrix not adjusted for clustering, and ρ stands for the intraclass correlation:\n\nformula_4\n\nThe ratio on the left-hand side provides an indication of how much the unadjusted scenario overestimates the precision. Therefore, a high number means a strong downward bias of the estimated covariance matrix. A small cluster problem can be interpreted as a large n: when the data is fixed and the number of clusters is low, the number of data within a cluster can be high. It follows that inference when the number of clusters is small will not have correct coverage.\n\nSeveral solutions for the small cluster problem have been proposed. One can use a bias-corrected cluster-robust variance matrix, make T-distribution adjustments, or use bootstrap methods with asymptotic refinements, such as the percentile-t or wild bootstrap, that can lead to improved finite sample inference. Cameron, Gelbach and Miller (2008) provide microsimulations for different methods and find that the wild bootstrap performs well in the face of a small number of clusters.\n\n"}
{"id": "47219495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47219495", "title": "Clyde Jeffery", "text": "Clyde Jeffery\n\nClyde Molesworth Jeffery (26 February 1917 – 23 June 2002) was the Mayor of Napier, New Zealand from 1974 to 1983, having been a Napier City Councillor from 1962 to 1974.\nHe was born in Napier and educated at Napier Boys' High School. He married Sybil Nicol in 1951, and was employed in the menswear industry.\n\nHe was in the RNZAF as a flight sergeant for six years in World War II, being awarded the BEM for outstanding service in Bougainville in 1945. He was awarded the Queen’s Silver Jubilee Medal in 1977 and a QSO in 1986, and was made freeman of Napier in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "4251978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4251978", "title": "Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations 1980", "text": "Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations 1980\n\nThe Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations 1980, or the \"Rome Convention\", is a measure in private international law or conflict of laws which creates a common choice of law system in contracts within the European Union. The convention determines which law should be used, but does not harmonise the substance (the actual law). It was signed in Rome, Italy on 19 June 1980 and entered into force in 1991.\n\nIt has now been replaced by the Rome I Regulation (593/2008) except for in Denmark, which has an opt-out from implementing regulations under the area of freedom, security and justice, and the Overseas countries and territories of European Union member states. In that respect, the convention is applicable in Aruba, the Caribbean Netherlands, Curaçao, Sint Maarten (Kingdom of the Netherlands), Faroer (Denmark), Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, Saint Barthélemy, French Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna and New Caledonia (France).\n\nUnder Article 1, the Convention's rules are to apply to all choice of law issues involving contractual obligations and, under Article 10, once selected, the \"lex causae\" will govern:\nArticle 15 excludes the operation of renvoi. In addition, a number of issues with a separate characterisation are excluded, namely:\n\nArticle 3 states the general rule that the parties to a contract have freedom of choice over the applicable law. To exercise this choice either express words may be used or the intention should be demonstrated with reasonable certainty by the terms of the contract or the circumstances of the case.\n\nThe law chosen may apply to the whole or only a part of the contract, and the choice is not irrevocable. The parties can at any time agree to change the applicable law and any such variation will not prejudice the formal validity of the agreement nor adversely affect the rights of third parties.\n\nWhere all the elements of a contract, at the time of its conclusion, are connected with only one country, Article 3 may not be used to evade the mandatory provisions of that state (Article 3(4)).\n\nTo establish a choice demonstrated with reasonable certainty, there must have been a \"real choice\". That the parties \"would\" have chosen a particular law is not sufficient. The court will take into account both the terms of the contract and the circumstances of the case.\n\nThe Guiliano-Lagarde Report gives three examples of situations where a real choice may be demonstrated with reasonable certainty:\n\nIf there is no express choice, Article 4 provides that the contract shall be governed by the law of the country with which it is most closely connected. If the agreement is severable, two applicable laws may be selected. For these purposes, it is presumed that the contract is most closely connected with the \"lex loci solutionis\", i.e. the law of the place where the contract is to be performed, or the law of the habitual residence of the person who is to perform, or, in the case of a body corporate or unincorporate, where its central administration is located. However, if it is a commercial or professional contract, the applicable law will be the law of the place in which the principal place of business is situated or, where under the terms of the contract the performance is to be effected through a place of business other than the principal place of business, the country in which that other place of business is situated except that there is a rebuttable presumption:\n\nArticle 5 applies to contracts for the supply of goods or services to a consumer for a non-commercial purpose, or to a contract for the provision of credit for that object. Although Article 3 gives the parties a free choice of law, this choice cannot deprive the consumer of any protections available under the mandatory law of the country in which he has his habitual residence if the consumer was responding to advertising material or a specific invitation and makes the agreement in that country, or if the other party or his agent received the consumer's order in that country, or if the contract is for the sale of goods and the consumer travelled from that country to another country and there gave his order, provided that the consumer's journey was arranged by the seller for the purpose of inducing the consumer to buy. For these purposes, Article 7 defines \"mandatory rules\" as rules that must be applied whatever the Applicable Law. In deciding whether rules are mandatory in the \"lex fori\" or a law with which the contract has a close connection, regard shall be had to their nature and purpose and to the consequences of their application or non-application.\n\nIf the contract is silent on the choice of law, it will be governed by the law of habitual residence if it is entered into in the circumstances described above. But this Article does not apply to:\n\nThe Article does, however, apply to a contract which, for an inclusive price, provides for a combination of travel and accommodation.\n\nUnder Article 6, no choice of law selection contained in a contract of employment can deprive the employee of the protection afforded to him by the mandatory laws which would be applicable in the absence of that choice. If there is no express selection, an employment contract is governed,\n\nThe provisions may only apply for the benefit of the employee.\n\nUnder Article 8, the material validity of a contract, or of any term in a contract, shall be determined by the law which would govern it under the Convention if the contract or term were valid (i.e. the putative Applicable Law). But, if this would produce an obviously unfair result, a party may rely upon the law of the place of habitual residence to establish that he did not give a free consent.\n\nUnder Article 9, a contract concluded between persons who are in the same country is formally valid if it satisfies the formal requirements of either the Applicable Law or the law of the country where it is concluded. A contract concluded between persons who are in different countries is formally valid if it satisfies the formal requirements of either the Applicable Law or the law of one of those countries. Where a contract is concluded by an agent, the country in which the agent acts is the relevant country for the purposes of the earlier tests. But a contract relating to immovable property is always subject to the mandatory provisions of the \"lex situs\".\n\nArticle 12 deals with a voluntary assignment or novation. Whether the rights and/or obligations can be transferred, the nature of the relationship between the assignee and the debtor that results from a transfer, the conditions under which the assignment can be invoked against the debtor, and any question whether the debtor's obligations have been discharged, are determined by the Applicable Law of the original agreement. The Applicable Law of the transfer will determine the mutual obligations of assignor and assignee as against the third party, i.e. \"the debtor\". Article 13 deals with subrogation so that whether a third person may enforce an existing liability owed to a \"creditor\" by a \"debtor\" is determined by reference to the law which governs the debtor's duty to satisfy the creditor.\n\nUnder Article 16, the forum court may invoke its own public policy as a justification for refusing to apply the \"lex causae\".\n\nUnder Article 19, where the choice of law rules point to a country with more than one legal system, the Convention selects the most appropriate municipal law (not the choice of law rules of that law given that renvoi is excluded).\n\nThe convention was signed by Belgium, Germany, France, Ireland and Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands on 19 June 1980, followed by Denmark and the United Kingdom in 1981, thus covering all members of the European Communities. It entered into force in 1991 for 8 of those countries and one year later for Ireland. During the enlargement of the Communities with Greece (1984), Spain and Portugal (1992) and Sweden, Finland and Austria (1996), and the 10 countries in 2004, treaties were concluded on the extension of the convention to those countries. Those Extension conventions were however not all ratified by the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland and thus which hampered entry into force of the convention between those three countries and the acceding countries. With the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, the council of the European Union was empowered to effect the accession to the treaty, which took place in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "265089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265089", "title": "Credit derivative", "text": "Credit derivative\n\nIn finance, a credit derivative refers to any one of \"various instruments and techniques designed to separate and then transfer the \"credit risk\"\" or the risk of an event of default of a corporate or sovereign borrower, transferring it to an entity other than the lender or debtholder.\n\nAn unfunded credit derivative is one where credit protection is bought and sold between bilateral counterparties without the protection seller having to put up money upfront or at any given time during the life of the deal unless an event of default occurs. Usually these contracts are traded pursuant to an International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) master agreement. Most credit derivatives of this sort are credit default swaps. If the credit derivative is entered into by a financial institution or a special purpose vehicle (SPV) and payments under the credit derivative are funded using securitization techniques, such that a debt obligation is issued by the financial institution or SPV to support these obligations, this is known as a funded credit derivative.\n\nThis synthetic securitization process has become increasingly popular over the last decade, with the simple versions of these structures being known as synthetic collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), credit-linked notes or single-tranche CDOs. In funded credit derivatives, transactions are often rated by rating agencies, which allows investors to take different slices of credit risk according to their risk appetite.\n\nCredit market participants, regulators, and courts are increasingly using credit derivative pricing to help inform decisions about loan pricing, risk management, capital requirements, and legal liability.\n\nThe market in credit derivatives started from nothing in 1993 after having been pioneered by J.P. Morgan's Peter Hancock. By 1996 there was around $40 billion of outstanding transactions, half of which involved the debt of developing countries.\n\nCredit default products are the most commonly traded credit derivative product and include unfunded products such as credit default swaps and funded products such as collateralized debt obligations (see further discussion below).\n\nOn May 15, 2007, in a speech concerning credit derivatives and liquidity risk, Geithner stated: “Financial innovation has improved the capacity to measure and manage risk.” Credit market participants, regulators, and courts are increasingly using credit derivative pricing to help inform decisions about loan pricing, risk management, capital requirements, and legal liability.\nThe ISDA reported in April 2007 that total notional amount on outstanding credit derivatives was $35.1 trillion with a gross market value of $948 billion (ISDA's Website). As reported in \"The Times\" on September 15, 2008, the \"Worldwide credit derivatives market is valued at $62 trillion\".\n\nAlthough the credit derivatives market is a global one, London has a market share of about 40%, with the rest of Europe having about 10%.\n\nThe main market participants are banks, hedge funds, insurance companies, pension funds, and other corporates.\n\nCredit derivatives are fundamentally divided into two categories: funded credit derivatives and unfunded credit derivatives.\n\nAn unfunded credit derivative is a bilateral contract between two counterparties, where each party is responsible for making its payments under the contract (i.e., payments of premiums and any cash or physical settlement amount) itself without recourse to other assets.\n\nA funded credit derivative involves the protection seller (the party that assumes the credit risk) making an initial payment that is used to settle any potential credit events. (The protection buyer, however, still may be exposed to the \"credit risk\" of the \"protection seller\" itself. This is known as counterparty risk.)\n\nUnfunded credit derivative products include the following products:\n\nFunded credit derivative products include the following products:\n\nThe credit default swap or CDS has become the cornerstone product of the credit derivatives market. This product represents over thirty percent of the credit derivatives market.\n\nThe product has many variations, including where there is a basket or portfolio of reference entities, although fundamentally, the principles remain the same. A powerful recent variation has been gathering market share of late: credit default swaps which relate to asset-backed securities.\n\nA credit linked note is a note whose cash flow depends upon an event, which may be a default, change in credit spread, or rating change. The definition of the relevant credit events must be negotiated by the parties to the note.\n\nA CLN in effect combines a credit-default swap with a regular note (with coupon, maturity, redemption). Given its note-like features, a CLN is an on-balance-sheet asset, in contrast to a CDS.\n\nTypically, an investment fund manager will purchase such a note to hedge against possible down grades, or loan defaults.\n\nNumerous different types of credit linked notes (CLNs) have been structured and placed in the past few years. Here we are going to provide an overview rather than a detailed account of these instruments.\n\nThe most basic CLN consists of a bond, issued by a well-rated borrower, packaged with a credit default swap on a less creditworthy risk.\n\nFor example, a bank may sell some of its exposure to a particular emerging country by issuing a bond linked to that country's default or convertibility risk. From the bank's point of view, this achieves the purpose of reducing its exposure to that risk, as it will not need to reimburse all or part of the note if a credit event occurs. However, from the point of view of investors, the risk profile is different from that of the bonds issued by the country. If the bank runs into difficulty, their investments will suffer even if the country is still performing well.\n\nThe credit rating is improved by using a proportion of government bonds, which means the CLN investor receives an enhanced coupon.\n\nThrough the use of a credit default swap, the bank receives some recompense if the reference credit defaults.\n\nThere are several different types of securitized product, which have a credit dimension.\n\nCDO refers either to the pool of assets used to support the CLNs or the CLNs themselves.\n\nNot all collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) are credit derivatives. For example, a CDO made up of loans is merely a securitizing of loans that is then tranched based on its credit rating. This particular securitization is known as a collateralized loan obligation (CLO) and the investor receives the cash flow that accompanies the paying of the debtor to the creditor. Essentially, a CDO is held up by a pool of assets that generate cash. A CDO only becomes a derivative when it is used in conjunction with credit default swaps (CDS), in which case it becomes a Synthetic CDO. The main difference between CDOs and derivatives is that a derivative is essentially a bilateral agreement in which the payout occurs during a specific event which is tied to the underlying asset.\n\nOther more complicated CDOs have been developed where each underlying credit risk is itself a CDO tranche. These CDOs are commonly known as CDOs-squared.\n\nPricing of credit derivative is not an easy process. This is because:\n\nRisks involving credit derivatives are a concern among regulators of financial markets. The US Federal Reserve issued several statements in the Fall of 2005 about these risks, and highlighted the growing backlog of confirmations for credit derivatives trades. These backlogs pose risks to the market (both in theory and in all likelihood), and they exacerbate other risks in the financial system. One challenge in regulating these and other derivatives is that the people who know most about them also typically have a vested incentive in encouraging their growth and lack of regulation. Incentive may be indirect, e.g., academics have not only consulting incentives, but also incentives in keeping open doors for research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28916441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28916441", "title": "DMACS Awards", "text": "DMACS Awards\n\nThe Digital Media Advertising Creative Showcase (DMACS) was a Los Angeles, California based organization that recognized creative talent in digital and rich media marketing for the entertainment industry. The DMACS provided a showcase for digital advertising and explored the tops trends in digital marketing.\n\nThe DMACS was first held in May 2006 (and was then called the I.M.A.C.S.). The showcase grew into a more formal awards show in 2009. In 2010, the awards were retired.\n\nThe DMAC awards were awarded for ads or a set of rich media ads used to promote these five categories:\n\n\nAdditionally, the DMACS presented a YouTube Creative Award for any home entertainment, theatrical movie, video game or broadcast television program campaign creative that included YouTube in its execution.\nThe awards ceremony was held in October at the Director’s Guild in Los Angeles. The DMACS 2010 was sponsored by Doubleclick by Google.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48914573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48914573", "title": "Dorothy Lehman Bernhard", "text": "Dorothy Lehman Bernhard\n\nDorothy Lehman Bernhard (April 22, 1903 – March 6, 1969) was a civic leader and philanthropist.\n\nDorothy Lehman Bernhard was born in New York City to a secular Jewish family, the oldest child of Adele (née Lewisohn) and Arthur Lehman. She had two sisters, Helen Lehman Buttenwieser Lehman and Frances Lehman Loeb. She is the niece of New York governor Herbert Lehman and Irving Lehman, the Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals in New York State. Her grandfathers were Mayer Lehman and Adolph Lewisohn. In 1920, she graduated from the Horace Mann School after which she attended Wellesley College but left after one year to marry investment banker Richard Jaques Bernhard in 1923. In the 1930s, her family established a charitable fund to aid relatives in emigrating from Nazi Germany and providing assistance in their resettlement; Bernard managed the fund.\n\nThereafter, she dedicated herself to charitable causes. She was involved with the Child Welfare League of America for much of her life serving as vice president for 13 years and president from 1957 to 1962. She served on the board of the Citizen’s Committee for Children of New York City for twenty years. Being a foster parent, she was a proponent of the deinstitutionalization of foster care. She served as chairwoman of the Hunter College School of Social Work Advisory Committee. She was appointed to the contributions New York State Board of Social Welfare from 1942 to 1947 and in 1960, she was appointed to the New York City Advisory Board on Public Welfare by Mayor Robert F. Wagner. She was also a strong supporter of Jewish organizations serving as a trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, as vice president of the Jewish Child Care Association from 1940–1942, as a board member of the New York Association for New Americans, as an honorary vice president of the Associated YWHA of Greater New York, and as a member of the publications committee of Commentary magazine.\n\nIn 1962, she was presented by Eleanor Roosevelt, the first Child Welfare Award from the Child Welfare League of America. Bernhard was also an avid art collector, supporter of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and served on the board of the New York Philharmonic.\n\nShe had two children with Richard Jaques Bernhard: Robert Arthur Bernhard (b. 1928) and William Lehman Bernhard (b. 1931). Her husband was an investment banker at \"Wertheim & Co.\" Her son William married Catherine Cahill, daughter of attorney John T. Cahill and Grace Pickens who was one of the Pickens Sisters, a trio born on a Georgia plantation that reached national stardom in the 1930s with its own radio show, concert tours and records. She was a member of Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan. She died of cancer on March 6, 1969.\n"}
{"id": "38257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38257", "title": "Electrolysis", "text": "Electrolysis\n\nIn chemistry and manufacturing, electrolysis is a technique that uses a direct electric current (DC) to drive an otherwise non-spontaneous chemical reaction. Electrolysis is commercially important as a stage in the separation of elements from naturally occurring sources such as ores using an electrolytic cell. The voltage that is needed for electrolysis to occur is called the decomposition potential.\n\nThe word \"electrolysis\" was introduced by Michael Faraday in the 19th century, on the suggestion of the Rev. William Whewell, using the Greek words \"amber\", which since the 17th century was associated with electric phenomena, and \"\" meaning \"dissolution\". Nevertheless, electrolysis, as a tool to study chemical reactions and obtain pure elements, precedes the coinage of the term and formal description by Faraday.\n\nElectrolysis is the passing of a direct electric current through an ionic substance that is either molten or dissolved in a suitable solvent, producing chemical reactions at the electrodes and a separation of the materials.\n\nThe main components required to achieve electrolysis are:\n\nElectrodes of metal, graphite and semiconductor material are widely used. Choice of suitable electrode depends on chemical reactivity between the electrode and electrolyte and manufacturing cost.\n\nThe key process of electrolysis is the interchange of atoms and ions by the removal or addition of electrons from the external circuit. The desired products of electrolysis are often in a different physical state from the electrolyte and can be removed by some physical processes. For example, in the electrolysis of brine to produce hydrogen and chlorine, the products are gaseous. These gaseous products bubble from the electrolyte and are collected.\n\nA liquid containing electrolyte is produced by:\n\nAn electrical potential is applied across a pair of electrodes immersed in the electrolyte. \n\nEach electrode attracts ions that are of the opposite charge. Positively charged ions (cations) move towards the electron-providing (negative) cathode. Negatively charged ions (anions) move towards the electron-extracting (positive) anode.\n\nIn this process electrons are either absorbed or released. Neutral atoms gain or lose electrons and become charged ions that then pass into the electrolyte. The formation of uncharged atoms from ions is called discharging. When an ion gains or loses enough electrons to become uncharged (neutral) atoms, the newly formed atoms separate from the electrolyte. Positive metal ions like Cudeposit onto the cathode in a layer. The terms for this are electroplating, electrowinning, and electrorefining. When an ion gains or loses electrons without becoming neutral, its electronic charge is altered in the process. In chemistry, the loss of electrons is called Oxidation, while electron gain is called reduction.\n\nOxidation of ions or neutral molecules occurs at the anode. For example, it is possible to oxidize ferrous ions to ferric ions at the anode:\nReduction of ions or neutral molecules occurs at the cathode.\n\nIt is possible to reduce ferricyanide ions to ferrocyanide ions at the cathode:\n\nNeutral molecules can also react at either of the electrodes. For example: p-Benzoquinone can be reduced to hydroquinone at the cathode:\n\nIn the last example, H ions (hydrogen ions) also take part in the reaction, and are provided by an acid in the solution, or by the solvent itself (water, methanol etc.). Electrolysis reactions involving H ions are fairly common in acidic solutions. In aqueous alkaline solutions, reactions involving OH (hydroxide ions) are common.\n\nSometimes the solvents themselves (usually water) are oxidized or reduced at the electrodes. It is even possible to have electrolysis involving gases. Such as when using a Gas diffusion electrode.\n\nThe amount of electrical energy that must be added equals the change in Gibbs free energy of the reaction plus the losses in the system. The losses can (in theory) be arbitrarily close to zero, so the maximum thermodynamic efficiency equals the enthalpy change divided by the free energy change of the reaction. In most cases, the electric input is larger than the enthalpy change of the reaction, so some energy is released in the form of heat. In some cases, for instance, in the electrolysis of steam into hydrogen and oxygen at high temperature, the opposite is true and heat energy is absorbed. This heat is absorbed from the surroundings, and the heating value of the produced hydrogen is higher than the electric input.\n\nThe following techniques are related to electrolysis:\n\nIn 1832, Michael Faraday reported that the quantity of elements separated by passing an electric current through a molten or dissolved salt is proportional to the quantity of electric charge passed through the circuit. This became the basis of the first law of electrolysis:\n\nor\n\nwhere;\ne is known as electrochemical equivalent of the metal deposited or of the gas liberated at the electrode.\n\nFaraday discovered that when the same amount of current is passed through different electrolytes/elements connected in series, the mass of substance liberated/deposited at the electrodes is directly proportional to their equivalent weight.\n\n\nElectrolysis has many other uses:\n\nElectrolysis is also used in the cleaning and preservation of old artifacts. Because the process separates the non-metallic particles from the metallic ones, it is very useful for cleaning a wide variety of metallic objects, from old coins to even larger objects including rusted cast iron cylinder blocks and heads when rebuilding automobile engines. Rust removal from small iron or steel objects by electrolysis can be done in a home workshop using simple materials such as a plastic bucket, tap water, lengths of rebar, washing soda, baling wire, and a battery charger.\n\nIn manufacturing, electrolysis can be used for:\n\nUsing a cell containing inert platinum electrodes, electrolysis of aqueous solutions of some salts leads to reduction of the cations (e.g., metal deposition with, e.g., zinc salts) and oxidation of the anions (e.g. evolution of bromine with bromides). However, with salts of some metals (e.g. sodium) hydrogen is evolved at the cathode, and for salts containing some anions (e.g. sulfate SO) oxygen is evolved at the anode. In both cases this is due to water being reduced to form hydrogen or oxidized to form oxygen.\nIn principle the voltage required to electrolyze a salt solution can be derived from the standard electrode potential for the reactions at the anode and cathode. The standard electrode potential is directly related to the Gibbs free energy, ΔG, for the reactions at each electrode and refers to an electrode with no current flowing. An extract from the table of standard electrode potentials is shown below.\nIn terms of electrolysis, this table should be interpreted as follows:\n\nUsing the Nernst equation the electrode potential can be calculated for a specific concentration of ions, temperature and the number of electrons involved. For pure water (pH 7):\nComparable figures calculated in a similar way, for 1M zinc bromide, ZnBr, are −0.76 V for the reduction to Zn metal and +1.10 V for the oxidation producing bromine.\nThe conclusion from these figures is that hydrogen should be produced at the cathode and oxygen at the anode from the electrolysis of water—which is at variance with the experimental observation that zinc metal is deposited and bromine is produced.\nThe explanation is that these calculated potentials only indicate the thermodynamically preferred reaction. In practice many other factors have to be taken into account such as the kinetics of some of the reaction steps involved. These factors together mean that a higher potential is required for the reduction and oxidation of water than predicted, and these are termed overpotentials. Experimentally it is known that overpotentials depend on the design of the cell and the nature of the electrodes.\n\nFor the electrolysis of a neutral (pH 7) sodium chloride solution, the reduction of sodium ion is thermodynamically very difficult and water is reduced evolving hydrogen leaving hydroxide ions in solution. At the anode the oxidation of chlorine is observed rather than the oxidation of water since the overpotential for the oxidation of chloride to chlorine is lower than the overpotential for the oxidation of water to oxygen. The hydroxide ions and dissolved chlorine gas react further to form hypochlorous acid. The aqueous solutions resulting from this process is called electrolyzed water and is used as a disinfectant and cleaning agent.\n\nThe electrochemical reduction or electrocatalytic conversion of CO can produce value-added chemicals such methane, ethylene, ethane, etc. The electrolysis of carbon dioxide gives formate or carbon monoxide, but sometimes more elaborate organic compounds such as ethylene. This technology is under research as a carbon-neutral route to organic compounds.\n\nElectrolysis of water produces hydrogen.\n\nThe energy efficiency of water electrolysis varies widely. The efficiency of an electrolyser is a measure of the enthalpy contained in the hydrogen (to undergo combustion with oxygen, or some other later reaction), compared with the input electrical energy. Heat/enthalpy values for hydrogen are well published in science and engineering texts, as 144 MJ/kg. Note that fuel cells (not electrolysers) cannot use this full amount of heat/enthalpy, which has led to some confusion when calculating efficiency values for both types of technology. In the reaction, some energy is lost as heat. Some reports quote efficiencies between 50% and 70% for alkaline electrolysers; however, much higher practical efficiencies are available with the use of PEM (Polymer Electrolyte Membrane electrolysis) and catalytic technology, such as 95% efficiency.\n\nNREL estimated that 1 kg of hydrogen (roughly equivalent to 3 kg, or 4 L, of petroleum in energy terms) could be produced by wind powered electrolysis for between $5.55 in the near term and $2.27 in the long term.\n\nAbout 4% of hydrogen gas produced worldwide is generated by electrolysis, and normally used onsite. Hydrogen is used for the creation of ammonia for fertilizer via the Haber process, and converting heavy petroleum sources to lighter fractions via hydrocracking.\n\nRecently, to reduce the energy input, the utilization of carbon (coal), alcohols (hydrocarbon solution), and organic solution (glycerol, formic acid, ethylene glycol, etc.) with co-electrolysis of water has been proposed as a viable option. The carbon/hydrocarbon assisted water electrolysis (so-called CAWE) process for hydrogen generation would perform this operation in a single electrochemical reactor. This system energy balance can be required only around 40% electric input with 60% coming from the chemical energy of carbon or hydrocarbon. This process utilizes solid coal/carbon particles or powder as fuels dispersed in acid/alkaline electrolyte in the form of slurry and the carbon contained source co-assist in the electrolysis process as following theoretical overall reactions :\n\nCarbon/Coal slurry (C + 2HO) -> CO + 2H E' = 0.21 V (reversible voltage) / E' = 0.46 V (thermo-neutral voltage)\n\nor\n\nCarbon/Coal slurry (C + HO) -> CO + H E' = 0.52 V reversible voltage) / E' = 0.91 V (thermo-neutral voltage)\n\nThus, this CAWE approach is that the actual cell overpotential can be significantly reduced to below 1 V as compared to 1.5 V for conventional water electrolysis.\n\nA specialized application of electrolysis involves the growth of conductive crystals on one of the electrodes from oxidized or reduced species that are generated in situ. The technique has been used to obtain single crystals of low-dimensional electrical conductors, such as charge-transfer salts.\n\nScientific pioneers of electrolysis include:\n\n\nPioneers of batteries:\n"}
{"id": "35437002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35437002", "title": "Ellen's Stardust Diner", "text": "Ellen's Stardust Diner\n\nEllen's Stardust Diner is a retro 1950s theme restaurant located at 1650 Broadway on the southeast corner of 51st Street in Theater District, Manhattan, New York City. The diner is regarded as one of the best theme restaurants in New York owing to its singing waitstaff. The diner also contains retro-themed memorabilia such as photos of many past Miss Subways on the walls, an indoor train, a 1956 Predicta television, and a “drive-in theater” screen that showcases performances of the 1950s. It is popular among children and adults.\n\nEllen's Stardust Diner was opened in 1987 after Ellen's Cafe was closed down. It was the first 1950s theme restaurant in New York City and had waitresses in poodle skirts. In the late 1990s, a sister restaurant operated near Times Square under the name Stardust Dine-O-Mat.\n\nDuring 2016–2017, the restaurant saw a period of unrest, when it was alleged that 31 waiters were fired after attempting to form a union, and the restaurant counter-claimed that the terminated employees had defrauded it of hundreds of thousands of dollars. In October 2017, a settlement was agreed to give the fired workers the opportunity to return to their jobs if they wished, and to give them back pay from the date of their firing. The settlement came about days before the issue was due to come to trial following a decision by the National Labor Relations Board.\n\nEllen's Stardust Diner was the site in the movie \"New Year's Eve\" where Sarah Jessica Parker’s character and her 15-year-old daughter’s friends stopped for a bite after the ball dropped. It was also featured in \"American Idol\" when a former employee, Devyn Rush, became a contestant on the show. Reports subsequently followed regarding Devyn's employment status at Ellen's Stardust Diner. Ellen's Diner was also featured on a \"Today Show\" episode.\n\nSeveral alums of Ellen's Stardust Diner singing waitstaff have gone on to have successful careers on Broadway theatre and \"American Idol\". Many current staffers have received critical acclaim with original musicals at \"NY Musical Theater Festival\". Brandon Ellis, Eric Michael Krop, Stephen Tyler Davis, and Alysha Umphress (Shirley) are some of the successful singers who had started their careers as singing wait-staffers at Ellen's Stardust Diner. Ellen's Stardust Diner is considered a breeding ground for singers. Former Ellen's staff members have been known to star in almost every Broadway and major off-Broadway musical such as \"Avenue Q\", \"Jersey Boys\",\" The Lion King\", \"South Pacific\", \"In The Heights\", \"On The Town\", \"Wicked\", and \"Godspell\".\n"}
{"id": "38423443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38423443", "title": "Energy Park, Saint Paul", "text": "Energy Park, Saint Paul\n\nEnergy Park is a large mixed-use project in Saint Paul, Minnesota's Midway district that began in 1982. The area is bounded by Lexington Parkway on the East, BNSF railroad tracks on the south and Canadian Pacific tracks on the North and Snelling Avenue on the West. It has industrial, commercial, and residential uses. Though not typical of any projects in the Twin Cities, Energy Park is a quintessential 1980s development activity.\n\nSaint Paul planners were determined to turn a liability - more than 200 acres of largely disused railroad land in the heart of the city - into an asset. Energy Park was intended as a model urban environment, a product of the mid 1970s' energy crisis. Energy conservation was its theme: people would live and work within the area, most jobs would be energy related, and all buildings would be energy efficient. Little of this actually came to pass, and some critics would consider Energy Park a failure. In 1980 the project received $12.1 million from the federal government as an Urban Development Action Grants.\n\nThe first few years were certainly not encouraging. Planning and start-up took much longer than municipal officials anticipated. The energy crisis appeared to have ended thus undermining the whole premise behind the \"model urban environment\". At the beginning Bandana Square, the project's retail center, seemed to be a bust. The condominiums didn't sell well. Job growth, industrial tenants, housing construction - nothing went according to plan.\n\nBy 1985 Energy Park's future began to look brighter in 1989 was described as \"plainly a success\", even though it is not exactly what was planned. The first two phases of housing construction were completed and largely occupied. The industrial space was filling in although not all employment was energy related. Bandana Square seemed prosperous. The center would later be turned over to the Saint Paul Port Authority after it lost the Wilder Foundation $9 million. Energy Park was not what city officials envisioned, but it is certainly far better than an abandoned railroad yard.\n\nFactors that contribute to the success of Energy Park include the Saint Paul Port Authority's economic strength and industrial marketing skills; the Planning Economic Development's staff creativity in packaging the deal and obtaining substantial and extraordinary federal aid; the involvements of the nonprofit Wilder Foundation in the housing and retail development, in cooperation with the Department of Planning Economic Development; the inclusion of representatives from several district councils in the project's planning; the various agencies' flexibility - including their ability to adapt to the loss of the project's original theme; and finally, George Latimer's leadership as mayor. The Wilder Foundation invested $35 million in Energy Park retail, housing and office developments.\n\nThe Minnesota Children's Museum was located in the neighborhood from 1985 to 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1104294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104294", "title": "Ernest Oppenheimer", "text": "Ernest Oppenheimer\n\nSir Ernest Oppenheimer (22 May 1880 – 25 November 1957) was a diamond and gold mining entrepreneur, financier and philanthropist, who controlled De Beers and founded the Anglo American Corporation of South Africa.\n\nHe was born in Friedberg, Germany, the son of Edward Oppenheimer, a cigar merchant. Oppenheimer began his working life at 17, when he entered Dunkelsbuhler & Company, a diamond brokerage in London. His efforts impressed his employer and in 1902, at the age of 22, he was sent to South Africa to represent the company as a buyer in Kimberley, where he eventually rose to the position of mayor.\n\nHe became great friends with William Lincoln Honnold, an American engineer and chairman of Transvaal Coal Trust, Brakpan Mines, Springs Mines and The New Era Company.\n\nIn 1917, they launched the Anglo American Corporation with financial assistance from J. P. Morgan. The initial capital was £1 million. Half of the capital was subscribed in America and half in England and South Africa.\n\nIn 1927, Ernest Oppenheimer managed to wrest control of Cecil Rhodes's De Beers empire and built and consolidated the company's global monopoly over the world's diamond industry until his retirement.\n\nHe was involved in a number of controversies, including price fixing, antitrust behaviour and an allegation of not releasing industrial diamonds for the US war effort during World War II.\n\nHe died in Johannesburg in 1957. He was born into a Jewish family, but as an adult, he converted to Anglicanism and was buried at St George's Church, Parktown. He was succeeded in the business by his son Harry Oppenheimer. Oppenheimer's brother, Sir Bernard Oppenheimer, was also heavily involved in the diamond industry.\n\nIn 1964, the Oppenheimer Diamond was named in his honour by its owner, Harry Winston, who donated the stone (not a gem, as it remains uncut and unpolished) to the Smithsonian Institution as a memorial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1751119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1751119", "title": "Final good", "text": "Final good\n\nA consumer good or final good is any commodity that is produced or consumed by the consumer to satisfy current wants or needs. Consumer goods are ultimately consumed, rather than used in the production of another good. For example, a microwave oven or a bicycle that is sold to a consumer is a final good or consumer good, but the components that are sold to be used in those goods are intermediate goods. For example, textiles or transistors can be used to make some further goods.\n\nWhen used in measures of national income and output, the term \"final goods\" includes only new goods. For instance, the GDP excludes items counted in an earlier year to prevent double counting of production that is based on resales of the same item. In that context, the economic definition of goods includes what are commonly known as \"services\".\n\"Manufactured goods\" are goods that have been processed in any way. As such, they are the opposite of raw materials, but they include intermediate goods as well as final goods.\n\nThere are legal definitions. For example, the United States Consumer Product Safety Act has an extensive definition of consumer product, which begins:\nCONSUMER PRODUCT.--The term ‘‘consumer product’’ means any article, or component part thereof, produced or distributed (i) for sale to a consumer for use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise, or (ii) for the personal use, consumption or enjoyment of a consumer in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, a school, in recreation, or otherwise; but such term does not include—\n(A) any article which is not customarily produced or distributed for sale to, or use or consumption by, or enjoyment of, a consumer,\nIt then goes on to list eight additional specific exclusions and further details.\n\nFinal goods can be classified into the following categories:\n\nConsumer durable goods usually have a significant lifespan, which tends to be at least one year, based on the guarantee or warranty period. The maximum life depends upon the durability of the product or good. On the other hand, capital goods, which are tangible in nature, such as machinery or building or any other equipment that can be used in manufacturing of final product, are durable goods with limited lifespans that are determined by manufacturers before their sale. The longevity and the often-higher cost of durable goods usually cause consumers to postpone expenditures on them, which makes durables the most volatile (or cost-dependent) component of consumption.\n\nConsumer nondurable goods are purchased for immediate use or for use very soon. Generally, the lifespan of nondurable goods is from a few minutes to up to three years: food, beverages, clothing, shoes and gasoline are examples.\n\nConsumer services are the intangible in nature. They cannot be seen, felt or tasted by the consumer but still give satisfaction to the consumer. They are also inseparable and variable in nature: they are thus produced and consumed simultaneously. Examples are haircuts, auto repairs and landscaping.\n\nFinal goods can be classified into the following categories, which are determined by the consumer's buying habits:\n\nConvenience goods are regularly consumed and easily available. Generally, convenience goods come in the category of nondurable goods such as fast foods, cigarettes and tobacco with low value. Convenience goods are sold mostly by wholesalers or retailers to make them available to the consumers in good or large volume. Convenience goods can further be divided into staple convenience consumer goods and impulse convenience consumer goods.\n\nStaple convenience consumer goods are the basic necessities of the consumer. These goods are easily available and in large quantity: milk, bread, sugar, etc.\n\nImpulse convenience consumer goods do not belong to the priority list of the consumer. They are purchased without any prior planning, just on the basis of the impulse: potato wafers, candies, ice creams, cold drinks, etc.\n\nShopping consumer goods are the goods which take lot of time and proper planning before making purchase decision; in this case consumer does a lot of selection and comparison based on various parameters such as cost, brand, style, comfort etc., before buying an item. Shopping goods are costlier than convenience goods and are durable in nature. Consumer goods companies usually try to set up their shops and show rooms in active shopping area to attract customer attention and their main focus is to do lots of advertising and promotion so that to attract more customer.\n\nExamples include clothing items, televisions, radios, footwear, home furnishings, etc.\n\nSpecialty goods are unique in nature; these are unusual and luxurious items available in the market. Specialty goods are mostly purchased by the upper class of the society as they are expensive in nature and difficult to be afforded by middle or lower-class people. Companies advertise their goods targeting the upper class. These goods do not fall under the category of necessity; rather they are purchased on the basis personal preference or desire. Brand name, uniqueness, and special features of an item are major attributes which attract customers and make them buy such products.\n\nExamples include antiques, jewelry, wedding dresses, cars, etc.\n\nUnsought goods neither belong to the necessity group of consumer goods list nor to specialty goods. They are always available in the market but are purchased by very few consumers, either based on their interest or their need for some specific reasons. The general public does not purchase such goods often.\n\nExamples include snowshoes, fire extinguishers, flood insurance, etc.\n\nIn the consumer product sector, there have been 107,891 deals announced between 1985 and 2018, which cumulates to a total value of around US$5,835 billion. 2007 was the year with the largest value (US$4,888 billion) followed by a steep slump in 2009 (-70.9%). After the first wave in 2007, now is the second big M&A wave in the consumer products sector, and a decline is expected.\n\n"}
{"id": "1678992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678992", "title": "Frank Perdue", "text": "Frank Perdue\n\nFranklin Parsons \"Frank\" Perdue (May 9, 1920 – March 31, 2005), born in Salisbury, Maryland, was for many years the president and CEO of Perdue Farms, now one of the largest chicken-producing companies in the United States.\n\nPerdue Farms was founded in 1920 by Arthur Perdue with his wife, Pearl Perdue who had been keeping a small flock of chickens. Their son, Frank, joined the company in 1939 at age 19 after dropping out of college. \n\nNow recognized as a visionary, Frank Perdue's promotion of the Perdue brand through high-profile advertising resulted in its being the first well-known brand of chicken in the U.S. He turned over leadership of Perdue Farms to his son, Jim Perdue, in 1991.\n\nPerdue Farms developed a specialized chicken-feed that included marigold blossoms, which imparted a characteristic golden yellow hue to the skins of his chickens.\n\nIn the 1980s the visionary Perdue twice sought assistance from then-Mafia boss Paul Castellano Sr. to fend off a union's effort to represent workers at his company, according to a federal commission on labor corruption.\n\nIn 1971, Perdue Farm embarked on its first major advertising campaign and had contracted the firm of Scali, McCabe, Sloves. The firm came up with the idea of putting Perdue on television himself, with the tag line, \"It takes a tough man to make a tender chicken.\" This was fairly radical because at the time, CEOs were not usually public spokespersons for their firms. The first commercial, shot in the city park in Salisbury, was ranked by \"Advertising Age\" as one of the best campaigns of the year. It was so successful that he went on to appear in over 200 of Perdue Farms' television commercials, although he was known for his shyness as well. Much of the commercials were known for Perdue actually encouraging people to voice any complaints or dissatisfaction with Perdue products, usually ending with Perdue stating \"Say whatever you have to say; I can take it\".\n\nThrough this advertising, Perdue is credited with creating the first brand for chicken.\n\nAccording to Perdue company officials, Perdue died on March 31, 2005, after a brief illness. He was 84.\n\nThe Franklin P. Perdue School of Business was established at Salisbury University in 1986 and named for Frank Perdue.\n\n"}
{"id": "8352548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8352548", "title": "Félix Amiot", "text": "Félix Amiot\n\nFélix Amiot (October 17, 1894 - December 21, 1974) was a French industrialist and aircraft constructor based in Colombes, France. Some of the aircraft models he designed served in the French Air Force during the Second World War. His second industrial activity was shipbuilding for fishing boats, sailing and warship in Cherbourg. He became famous for designing and producing Missile Boat (Fast attack craft) type \"Combattante\" which he sold worldwide.\n\nBorn in a small shopkeepers' family, his father being a grocer, Félix Amiot spent his childhood in Cherbourg, where he studied at the local public High School: Lycée Victor Grignard. During his childhood, he became passionate about mechanics and aviation. In 1908, his family left Cherbourg to settle down in Issy-les-Moulineaux, in the Paris suburbs, where the pioneers of the French aviation - Blériot, Voisin, the brothers Farman – had built aviation sheds and proceeded to flying trials of their engines on a nearby exercise ground.\nThe proximity of the site was a strong inspiration for Amiot. In 1912, at the age of 18, he built his first plane in a garage near the training ground of Issy-les-Moulineaux. It was a two-seater monoplane, named after him: Amiot 01. In spite of the short-lived existence of this plane, damaged during a flight in 1913, Félix Amiot persevered with designing new planes.\nIn September, 1913, he registered his first patent for a \"distribution system for fixed or rotary 2 or 4 times combustion engines \".\n\nIn September, 1914, Félix Amiot served in the army and was sent to the war front, where he stayed until October, 1915. He was then requested to work for Morane-Saulnier, away from the front lines. He developed an assembly process for metallic parts using a stamping technic. The aircraft industry was very interested by the development of this technology, it attracted the attention of Louis Loucheur who was at the time, Secretary of Armaments. Loucheur suggested that Amiot become director of an aircraft manufacturing factory. Pierre Wertheimer, owner of Chanel and Bourjois, financed Amiot's first company: \"La Société d'Emboutissage et de Constructions Mécaniques\" (SECM), based Avenue des Ternes, in Paris. SECM fabricated and repaired Morane-Saulnier, Breguet or Sopwith planes.\nAt the end of 1917, a second workshop was created in Colombes.\n\nIn 1919, the SECM left the workshop at avenue des Ternes to settle down in a brand new factory in Colombes, in the close suburbs of Paris. In 1921, the SECM launched a design cabinet and began developing light passenger aircraft while at the same time, manufacturing planes under license - Breguet XIV, Breguet XIX, Farman F. 50, Dewoitine D1...\nIn 1926, the SECM produced Amiot 120 among which the military by-product, Amiot 122, which was the first plane of the firm to be ordered in series by the French Army. The model became famous in 1927 and 1928 for a series of successful raids - Circuit of the Mediterranean Sea and Saharan circuit - and a double attempt, with an Amiot 123, at crossing the Atlantic Ocean in 1928 and 1929, piloted by the Polish crew - Idzikowski and Kubala.\nIn 1928, in order to increase his activity, Félix Amiot acquired the seaplanes firm Latham, based in Caudebec-en-Caux.\nIn 1929, the SECM merged with several aircraft manufacturers around Lorraine-Dietrich to form the \"Société Générale Aéronautique\" (SGA). The brother Wertheimer and Amiot, as well as the shareholders, won impressive dividends. But in 1934, the company faced financial crisis. To avoid bankruptcy, the French State authorized Amiot and Bloch to buy back the bankrupt company. Amiot and the brother Wertheimer acquired it for a small amount of money.\n\nIn 1937, the SECM was partially nationalized : the Colombes factory was kept by Amiot, whereas Caudebec-en-Caux became a state owned company, becoming the SNCAN. To compensate for loss, Félix Amiot created in 1938 a new factory in his hometown Cherbourg.\nAt Colombes and Cherbourg, he developed the Amiot 340, 350 and 370, a series of bombers succeeding Amiot 143 which he had just produced in series for the French Air Force. These new models broke several records and acquired recognition :\n- September 1937 to August 1939: an Amiot 370 piloted by Commander Maurice Rossi, broke a series of speed records for 1 000km , 2 000km and 5 000 Km distance with different loads of 500, 1000 and 2000 kilos.\n- August 1938: the prototype Amiot 340 was chosen by General Vuillemin, Chief of Air Force Staff, on a diplomatic visit to Berlin.\n- From 1938: the French Air Force ordered 1 800 Amiot 350 and by-products. The SECM received numerous requests to acquire the manufacturing license.\nHowever, the planes mass production was affected by Amiot's bad relations with the Air Ministry, and the constant technical changes required by the STAé - Service technique de l'Aéronautique. In January, 1939, Pierre Wertheimer left for the United States, aiming at establishing a factory in New-Orleans.\n\nWWII\n\nIn June 1940, the brother Wertheimer left urgently France for Brazil, then settled down in New-York, they asked Amiot to take care of their assets and business based in France and handed over to him all their SECM shares and majority stake in Chanel and Bourjois Perfumes. \nJune 3rd 1940, in Le Bourget, Amiot workshops were severely bombarded. Two days later, it was the turn of Cherbourg. On June 10th, Amiot evacuated his 3,000 workers staff to the south of France. He obtained 3 millions Francs from the government, then based in Bordeaux, in return for his pre-war orders. June 13th 1940, the French army, in violation with free city status, ordered the destruction by fire of the Colombes workshops. In retribution, the German Army occupied the factory which had been partially destroyed by the French army and looted by the German army, stole what was left and moved the workshop machines to Junkers, a firm based in Dessau in Germany.\n\nAfter the Armistice, Amiot repatriated his staff to Paris. \"Though” as he wrote in his Memoirs from the Occupation, “I managed to subtract the design office and to keep it in the free zone\". In order to recuperate late payments and to be financed by the French state, he settled his company in Vichy.\nFrom Vichy, Amiot contacted the Resistance, they advised him to pursue his activity. In 1940, the German state contacted Amiot to request Junkers' planes. Unsure if he bellshould comply to the German's request and collaborate, Amiot wrote to Marshall Pétain to ask for instructions. Forced to work for the German occupant, he decided however not to get personally involved and left his company's management with two orders. Firstly, to slow down production as much as possible without attracting the attention of the German Occupant and put his staff in danger. Secondly, to enrol everyone who would ask for work at the factory without any discrimination: STO objectors, resistants, communists or French Jews who were in hide such as Marie-Claire Servan-Schreiber.\nAmiot reconstituted a factory in Marseille and employed numerous workers who wanted to escape the STO (forced labour in Germany). After the war, his behaviour was taken in consideration when his case was examined to assess his collaboration with the German forces.\n\nIn the spring 1942, Amiot employees aimed at recreating the industrial activity which was been disrupted by the war. They turned to Pierre Wertheimer, who, in the meanwhile, had become administrator to the aircraft manufacturer Bell in the United States. It was impossible to coordinate the two companies as they tried to establish a squadron at the colours of Free France in North Africa. Félix Amiot personally financed a resistance network which clandestinely helped 10 persons to escape to North Africa and sent information to the Allies. Unfortunately, the network was dismantled in May 1943, leading to the arrest by the Gestapo of Yves Maurice, head of design and close collaborator to Amiot, in Perpignan.\n\nHowever, Amiot was busy defending the interests of the Wertheimer brothers, he bought back their Perfume and beauty companies. At the end of the War, when Chanel and Bourjois accounts were settled, the Wertheimer brothers contested Amiot's decision. Amiot had made fake documents to prove that the Wertheimer companies complied with aryan regulations imposed by the Nazi regime, whereas at the same time associating himself with Junkers Flugzeug-und-Motorenwerke to build 370 Junkers Ju 52 transport planes. After the Liberation, the Colombes company built its devices under the name AAC 01 Toucan. Amiot was questioned by the Gestapo, in September 1942. Amiot had held back the management of the Wertheimer's factories, in spite of Coco Chanel's attempts to take control of the Perfumes bearing her name, helped by the relations she had with the Occupation German authorities. Soon after the Liberation of Paris, Amiot received General Bradley at his castle of Boissière-Beauchamps in Lévis-Saint-Nom. Amiot sent a telegram to the Wertheimer brothers informing them of the liberation of France from Nazi Germany.\n\nAfter the war, Pierre Wertheimer launched judicial procedures against Amiot to recover some benefits. Amiot at the end of the war was in good financial situation. However, he was arrested on the 6th of September 1944 with the direction of the SECM accused of collaboration and \"antisocial conduct\". Quickly released, the charged were abandoned in 1947, after the tribunal cleared his name. The SECM, which had been requisitioned in 1944, was nationalised in 1946, through a private sale to the Government, ending its aeronautics activities.\n\nAfter WWII\n\nAmiot dedicated himself to the reconstruction of his factory in Cherbourg, which became the \"Constructions Mécaniques de Normandie\" (CMN) developing into shipbuilding.\nIn 1948, the CMN launched their first ship : the trawler \"Annie\" for the \"Chalutiers Cherbourgeois\" ' fleet, taken back by Félix Amiot in 1946. He built various types of light military ships, minesweepers and mine hunters, patrol boats...\n\nHe was also interested in the sailing market, which started booming and produced the Maïca's series, long-distance yachts using glued laminated timber technology, which had been designed by English naval architects John Illingworth and Angus Primrose, it became famous during the Fastnet race.\nCMN shipbuildings counted among his customers known skippers such as Olivier de Kersauson or Eric Tabarly. A skilful businessman, Amiot conceived La Combattante-class, a missile-boat which was exported all over the world thanks to a good market analysis.\n\nA few of his missile-boats became part of the famous event known as the boats of Cherbourg. On 1969 Christmas Christmas eve, 5 boats were illegally delivered to Israel, breaking the French embargo proclaimed by the General de Gaulle in 1969. Amiot was then 75 years old.\n\nFélix Amiot was also a talented engineer-inventor who holds 100 patents to his name. One of the most important one is the stamping technology used to assemble metallic parts. Another one is the 1950 patent related to the improvement of fish preservation. At the beginning of 1950s, he worked on improving deep-sea trawlers. In 1960, he became one of the first in France to develop a licence for rear operating trawlers boats.\n\nAt his death on the 21st of December 1974, Félix Amiot left a worldwide recognised company employing more than 1,400 workers with booking orders for the 4 years to come. He was buried at Lévis-Saint-Nom cemetery, near his Boissière-Beauchamps property mansion.\n\n\nThomas, Dana, \"The Power Behind The Cologne,\" \"The New York Times,\" February 24, 2002, retrieved August 1, 2012\n"}
{"id": "11955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11955", "title": "George H. W. Bush", "text": "George H. W. Bush\n\nGeorge Herbert Walker Bush (June 12, 1924 – November 30, 2018) was an American politician who served as the 41st President of the United States from 1989 to 1993. Prior to assuming the presidency, Bush served as the 43rd Vice President of the United States from 1981 to 1989. As a member of the Republican Party, he had previously been a U.S. Representative, Ambassador, and Director of Central Intelligence. During his career in public service, he was known simply as George Bush; after his eldest son George W. Bush became President of the United States in 2001, he was referred to as \"George H. W. Bush\", \"Bush 41\", or \"George Bush Sr.\"\n\nA scion of the Bush family, he was born in Milton, Massachusetts, to Prescott Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Bush postponed his university studies, enlisted in the United States Navy on his 18th birthday, and became one of the youngest aviators in the U.S. Navy. He served until September 1945, and then attended Yale University. Graduating in 1948, he moved his family to West Texas, where he entered the oil business and became a millionaire by the age of 40 in 1964.\n\nSoon after founding his own oil company, Bush became involved in politics. He was defeated in his first election, for the U.S. Senate in 1964, but won election to the House of Representatives from Texas's 7th district in 1966. He was re-elected in 1968 but was defeated for election to the Senate again in 1970. In 1971, President Richard Nixon appointed Bush as Ambassador to the United Nations, and in 1973, Bush became the Chairman of the Republican National Committee. The following year, President Gerald Ford appointed Bush as Chief of the Liaison Office in China and later made Bush the Director of Central Intelligence. Bush ran for president in 1980 and was defeated in the Republican primary by Ronald Reagan, who chose him as his running mate in his successful bid for presidency. During his eight-year tenure as Vice President, Bush headed task forces on deregulation and the war on drugs.\n\nBush ran a successful campaign in 1988, defeating Democratic opponent Michael Dukakis, becoming the first incumbent vice president in 152 years to be elected president. Foreign policy drove the Bush presidency: Military operations were conducted in Panama and the Persian Gulf; the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, and the Soviet Union dissolved two years later. Bush also signed the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which created a trade bloc consisting of the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Domestically, Bush and signed a bill to increase taxes. In the wake of a weak recovery from an economic recession and the diminution of foreign policy as a major issue in a post-Cold War political climate, he lost the 1992 presidential election to Democrat Bill Clinton.\n\nAfter leaving office in 1993, Bush was active—often alongside his former opponent Bill Clinton—in humanitarian activities. With George W. Bush's victory in the 2000 presidential election, Bush and his son became the second father–son pair to serve as president, following John Adams and John Quincy Adams. Bush's second son, Jeb Bush, served as the 43rd Governor of Florida and sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.\n\nBush died on November 30, 2018, at the age of . He has the distinction of being the longest-lived president in American history. \n\nGeorge Herbert Walker Bush was born at 173 Adams Street in Milton, Massachusetts, on June 12, 1924, to Prescott Sheldon Bush and Dorothy (Walker) Bush. The Bush family moved from Milton to Greenwich, Connecticut, shortly after his birth. Bush was named after his maternal grandfather, George Herbert Walker, who was known as \"Pop\". In turn, Bush was called \"Poppy\" as a tribute to his namesake.\n\nBush began his formal education at the Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich. Beginning in 1938, he attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, where he held a number of leadership positions that included president of the senior class, secretary of the student council, president of the community fund-raising group, a member of the editorial board of the school newspaper, and captain of both the varsity baseball and soccer teams.\n\nThe United States formally entered World War II in December 1941, following Japan's surprise attack on Pearl Harbor in Hawaii. Six months later, Bush enlisted into the U.S. Navy immediately after he graduated from Phillips Academy on his eighteenth birthday. He became a naval aviator, taking training for aircraft carrier operations aboard USS \"Sable\". After completing the 10-month course, he was commissioned as an ensign in the United States Naval Reserve at Naval Air Station Corpus Christi on June 9, 1943 (just three days before his 19th birthday), which made him one of the youngest aviators in the U.S. Navy.\n\nIn September 1943, he was assigned to Torpedo Squadron 51 (VT-51) as the photographic officer. The following year, his squadron was based in as a member of Air Group 51, where his lanky physique earned him the nickname \"Skin\". During this time, the task force was victorious in one of the largest air battles of World War II: the Battle of the Philippine Sea.\n\nAfter Bush's promotion to lieutenant (junior grade) on August 1, 1944, \"San Jacinto\" commenced operations against the Japanese in the Bonin Islands. Bush piloted one of four Grumman TBM Avengers of VT-51 that attacked the Japanese installations on Chichijima. His crew for the mission, which occurred on September 2, 1944, included Radioman Second Class John Delaney and Lt.(jg) William White. Although his aircraft was hit by flak during the attack, Bush successfully released bombs and scored several hits. With his engine ablaze, Bush flew several miles from the island, where he and one other crew member bailed out; the other man's parachute did not open. Bush waited for four hours in an inflated raft, while several fighters circled protectively overhead, until he was rescued by the submarine . For the next month, he remained in \"Finback\" and participated in the rescue of other aviators. Several of those shot down during the attack were executed, and their livers were eaten by their captors. This experience shaped Bush profoundly, leading him to ask, \"Why had I been spared and what did God have for me?\"\n\nIn November 1944, Bush returned to \"San Jacinto\" and participated in operations in the Philippines until his squadron was replaced and sent home to the United States. Through 1944, he flew 58 combat missions for which he received the Distinguished Flying Cross, three Air Medals, and the Presidential Unit Citation awarded to \"San Jacinto\". Bush was then reassigned to a training wing for torpedo bomber crews at Norfolk Navy Base, Virginia. His final assignment was to a new torpedo squadron, VT-153, based at Naval Air Station Grosse Ile, Michigan. Bush was honorably discharged from the U.S. Navy in September 1945, one month after the surrender of Japan.\n\nWhen Bush was still in the Navy, he married Barbara Pierce (1925–2018) in Rye, New York on January 6, 1945. The marriage produced six children: George W. (b. 1946), Robin (1949–1953), Jeb (b. 1953), Neil (b. 1955), Marvin (b. 1956), and Doro (b. 1959). At the time of his wife's death on April 17, 2018, George H. W. had been married to Barbara for 73 years; theirs was the longest presidential marriage in American history. They had become the longest-married presidential couple in 2000 when their marriage surpassed the 54-year (1764–1818) marriage of John and Abigail Adams.\n\nAfter Bush received his military discharge, he enrolled at Yale University. He earned an undergraduate degree in economics on an accelerated program that enabled him to graduate in two and a half years, rather than the usual four. He was a member of the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity and was elected its president. He also captained the Yale baseball team and played in the first two College World Series as a left-handed first baseman. Bush was the team captain during his senior year in 1948, and he met Babe Ruth before a game; the event took place only weeks before Ruth's death. Like his father, he was also a member of the Yale cheerleading squad. Late in his junior year, he was initiated into the Skull and Bones secret society; his father Prescott Bush had been initiated into the same society in 1917. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa when he graduated from Yale in 1948 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics.\n\nAfter graduating from Yale, Bush moved his young family to West Texas. His father's business connections proved useful as he ventured into the oil business, starting as an oil field equipment salesman for Dresser Industries, a subsidiary of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., where Prescott Bush had served on the board of directors for 22 years. While working for Dresser, Bush lived in various places with his family: Odessa, Texas; Ventura, Bakersfield and Compton, California; and Midland, Texas. (According to eldest son George W. Bush, then age two, the family lived in one of the few duplexes in Odessa with an indoor bathroom, which they \"shared with a couple of hookers\".) Bush started the Bush-Overbey Oil Development company in 1951 and in 1953 co-founded the Zapata Petroleum Corporation, an oil company that drilled in the Permian Basin in Texas. In 1954, he was named president of the Zapata Offshore Company, a subsidiary which specialized in offshore drilling.\n\nShortly after the subsidiary became independent in 1959, Bush moved the company and his family from Midland to Houston. He continued serving as president of the company until 1964, and later chairman until 1966, when he won election to the U.S. House of Representatives. By that time, Bush had become a millionaire.\n\nBush's career in politics began in 1963 when he was elected chairman of the Harris County, Texas Republican Party. The following year, he ran against incumbent Democrat Ralph W. Yarborough in the U.S. Senate race. He presented himself as a young Conservative Republican in contrast to the aging liberal Democrat Yarborough. He campaigned against civil rights legislation pending before Congress, stating that he believed it gave too much power to the federal government. Bush lost the election 56% to 44%, though he did outpoll Republican presidential nominee Barry Goldwater, who lost by an overwhelming margin to Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nBush and the Harris County Republicans played a role in the development of the new Republican Party of the late 20th century. First, Bush worked to absorb the John Birch Society members, who were trying to take over the Republican Party. Second, during and after the civil rights movement, Democrats in the South who were committed to segregation left their party, and although the \"country club Republicans\" had differing ideological beliefs, they found common ground in hoping to expel the Democrats from power.\n\nIn 1966, Bush was elected to a seat in the United States House of Representatives from the 7th District of Texas; he won 57 percent of the ballots cast in a race against Democrat Frank Briscoe, who was the district attorney of Harris County. Bush was the first Republican to represent Houston in the U.S. House. Bush's representative district included Tanglewood, the Houston neighborhood that was his residence; his family had moved into Tanglewood in the 1960s. His voting record in the House was generally conservative: Bush voted for the Civil Rights Act of 1968, although it was generally unpopular in his district. He supported the Nixon administration's Vietnam policies, but broke with Republicans on the issue of birth control, which he supported. Despite being a first-term congressman, Bush was appointed to the powerful United States House Committee on Ways and Means, where he voted to abolish the military draft. He was elected to a second term in 1968.\n\nIn 1970, Nixon convinced Bush to relinquish his House seat in order to run for the Senate against Ralph Yarborough, who was a fierce Nixon critic. In the Republican primary, Bush easily defeated conservative Robert J. Morris by a margin of 87.6% to 12.4%. Nixon went to Longview, Texas, to campaign for Bush and gubernatorial candidate Paul Eggers, a Dallas lawyer who was a close friend of U.S. Senator John G. Tower. Former Congressman Lloyd Bentsen, a more moderate Democrat and native of Mission in south Texas, defeated Yarborough in the Democratic primary. Yarborough endorsed Bentsen, who went on to defeat Bush, 53.4 to 46.6%.\n\nFollowing his 1970 loss, Bush was well known as a prominent Republican businessman from the \"Sun Belt\", a group of states in the Southern part of the country. Nixon noticed and appreciated the sacrifice Bush had made of his Congressional position, so he appointed him United States Ambassador to the United Nations. He was confirmed unanimously by the Senate, and served for two years, beginning in 1971.\n\nHis ambassadorship was marked by a notable defeat on the China question. On October 25, 1971, the General Assembly voted to expel the Republic of China and replace it with the People's Republic of China. Bush was hissed when he got up to speak, and the delegates cheered and danced after defeating a US motion to require a two-thirds supermajority. The resolution then won a two-thirds supermajority anyway, as the United States lost the support of every NATO country. Although Bush condemned the \"gladiatorial ugliness\" of the debate, he advocated friendly relations with the Chinese delegation. Two months later, Bush even placed himself in the position of depending on a Chinese veto in the 1971 Secretary-General selection. However he did not tell the Chinese, who unexpectedly abstained and allowed Kurt Waldheim to be selected as the next Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nAfter Bob Dole resigned as chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1972, Nixon named Bush to the position. Bush took over in January 1973 and held this position as the Watergate scandal grew more damaging to Nixon. He initially defended Nixon steadfastly, but as Nixon's complicity became clear he focused more on defending the Republican Party. As chairman, Bush formally requested that Nixon eventually resign for the good of the Republican party. Nixon did this on August 9, 1974; Bush noted in his diary that \"There was an aura of sadness, like somebody died... The [resignation] speech was vintage Nixon—a kick or two at the press—enormous strains. One couldn't help but look at the family and the whole thing and think of his accomplishments and then think of the shame... [President Gerald Ford's swearing-in offered] indeed a new spirit, a new lift.\"\n\nPresident Gerald Ford appointed Bush to be Chief of the U.S. Liaison Office in the People's Republic of China. Since the United States maintained diplomatic relations with the Republic of China (Taiwan) instead of the People's Republic of China, Bush did not hold the diplomatic rank of ambassador. However, Bush acted like an ambassador anyway, ignoring instructions from Henry Kissinger to stay away from diplomatic functions. The 14 months that he spent in China were seen as beneficial for China–United States relations.\n\nAfter Ford assumed the presidency, Bush was under serious consideration for being nominated as vice president. Ford eventually narrowed his list to Nelson Rockefeller and Bush. White House Chief of Staff Donald Rumsfeld reportedly preferred Rockefeller over Bush. Rockefeller was finally named and confirmed. Ford again passed over Bush when he chose Bob Dole to replace Rockefeller on the 1976 presidential ticket.\n\nIn 1976 Ford brought Bush back to Washington to become Director of Central Intelligence (DCI), replacing William Colby. He served in this role for 357 days, from January 30, 1976, to January 20, 1977. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had been rocked by a series of revelations, including those based on investigations by the Church Committee regarding illegal and unauthorized activities by the CIA, and Bush was credited with helping to restore the agency's morale. In his capacity as DCI, Bush gave national security briefings to Jimmy Carter both as a presidential candidate and as president-elect, and discussed the possibility of remaining in that position in a Carter administration, but did not do so. He was succeeded by Deputy Director of Central Intelligence E. Henry Knoche, who served as acting Director of Central Intelligence until Stansfield Turner was confirmed.\n\nDuring Bush's year in charge of the CIA, the U.S. national security apparatus actively supported Operation Condor operations and right-wing military dictatorships in Latin America.\n\nAfter Democrat Jimmy Carter took power in 1977, Bush became chairman on the Executive Committee of the First International Bank in Houston. He later spent a year as a part-time professor of Administrative Science at Rice University's Jones School of Business beginning in 1978, the year it opened; Bush said of his time there, \"I loved my brief time in the world of academia.\" Between 1977 and 1979, he was a director of the Council on Foreign Relations foreign policy organization.\n\nBush decided in the late 1970s that he was going to run for president in 1980; in 1979, he attended 850 political events (\"cattle calls\") and traveled more than to campaign for the nation's highest office. In the contest for the Republican Party nomination, Bush stressed his wide range of government experience, while competing against rivals Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, Congressman John Anderson of Illinois (who would later run as an independent), Congressman Phil Crane, also of Illinois, former Governor John Connally of Texas, former Minnesota Governor Harold Stassen, and the front-runner Ronald Reagan, a noted former actor and the former Governor of California.\nAt the outset of the 1980 primary race, Bush focused heavily on winning the January 21 Iowa caucuses, including 31 visits to the state; five months earlier he had won the Iowa Straw Poll. Reagan, however, far ahead in the polls, campaigned little. Bush represented the centrist wing in the GOP, whereas Reagan represented conservatives. Bush famously labeled Reagan's supply side-influenced plans for massive tax cuts \"voodoo economics\". His strategy proved useful, to some degree, as he won in Iowa with 31.5% to Reagan's 29.4%. After the win, Bush stated that his campaign was full of momentum, or \"the Big Mo\".\n\nAs a result of the loss, Reagan replaced his campaign manager, reorganized his staff, and concentrated on the New Hampshire primary. The two men agreed to a debate in the state, organized by \"The Nashua Telegraph\", but paid for by the Reagan campaign. Reagan invited the other four candidates as well, but Bush refused to debate them, and eventually they left. The debate proved to be a pivotal moment in the campaign; when the moderator, John Breen, ordered Reagan's microphone turned off, his angry response, \"I am paying for this microphone,\" struck a chord with the public. Bush ended up losing New Hampshire's primary with 23% to Reagan's 50%. Bush lost most of the remaining primaries as well, and formally dropped out of the race in May of that year.\n\nWith his political future in doubt, Bush sold his house in Houston and bought his grandfather's estate in Kennebunkport, Maine, known as \"Walker's Point\". At the Republican Convention, Reagan made the last-minute decision to select Bush as his vice presidential nominee, placing him on the winning Republican presidential ticket of 1980.\n\nAs vice president, Bush generally maintained a typically low profile while he recognized the constitutional limits of the office; he avoided decision-making or criticizing Reagan in any way. As had become customary, he and his wife moved into the Vice President's residence at Number One Observatory Circle, about two miles from the White House. After selling the house in Tanglewood, the Bushes declared a room in The Houstonian Hotel in Houston as their official voting address. The Bushes attended a large number of public and ceremonial events in their positions, including many state funerals, which became a common joke for comedians. Mrs. Bush found the funerals largely beneficial, saying, \"George met with many current or future heads of state at the funerals he attended, enabling him to forge personal relationships that were important to President Reagan.\" As the President of the Senate, Bush stayed in contact with members of Congress and kept the president informed on occurrences on Capitol Hill.\nOn March 30, 1981 (early into the administration), Reagan was shot and seriously wounded by John Hinckley Jr. in Washington, D.C. Bush was in Fort Worth, Texas, and immediately flew back to Washington D.C. because he was next in line to the presidency. Reagan's cabinet convened in the White House Situation Room, where they discussed various issues, including the availability of the \"nuclear football\". When Bush's plane landed, he was advised by his aides to proceed directly to the White House by helicopter as an image of the government still functioning despite the attack. Bush rejected the idea, responding, \"Only the President lands on the South Lawn.\" This made a positive impression on Reagan, who recovered and returned to work within two weeks. From then on, the two men would have regular Thursday lunches in the Oval Office.\n\nIn November 1982, Bush toured Africa, the first instance of a high United States government official visiting the continent since the Reagan administration began. Bush told reporters that while he would allow for heads of state to dictate how each meeting would transpire, there was an expectation on his part for discussions on the independence of Namibia, adding that the United States was going to retain the position of no settlement in Namibia until Cuban troops in Angola were withdrawn. On November 15, Bush met with United States Secretary of State George P. Shultz and Yuri Andropov in Moscow, Russia, to discuss human rights and arms reductions. Bush later said, \"The meeting was frank, cordial and substantive. It gave both sides the opportunity to exchange views on the state of their relations.\"\n\nAt the end of January 1983, Bush began a seven-day tour of Western Europe intended to promote the arms reduction commitment being advocated for by the Reagan administration. During a February 8 news conference in Paris, Bush said the United States' invitations for the Soviet Union to consent to a reduction in medium-range missiles were supported by Western Europe, which he stated had also consented to the deployment of new American missiles starting in the latter part of the year. The following day, Bush defended American nuclear arms policy when answering British Secretary General of the Committee on Nuclear Disarmament Bruce Kent.\n\nIn September 1983, Bush met with President of Romania Nicolae Ceaușescu, insisting during the meeting that President Reagan intended to push for arms reductions at the Geneva talks with the Soviet Union. Shortly thereafter, Bush said the United States wanted better relations with all countries within the Eastern Bloc though he stressed that NATO would retaliate in the event of any threatening of European military stability by the Soviets, and the vice president assailed the Soviet Union for the Berlin Wall and destroying the Korean Air Lines jetliner.\nIn December 1983 Bush flew to El Salvador and warned that country's military leaders to end their death squads and hold fully free elections or face the loss of U.S. aid. \"It is not just the President, it is not just me or the Congress. If these death-squad murders continue, you will lose the support of the American people and that would indeed be a tragedy.\" Bush's aides feared for his safety and thought about calling the meeting off when they discovered apparent blood stains on the floor of the presidential palace of Álvaro Magaña. Bush was never told of the aides' concerns and a tense meeting was held in which some of Magaña's personnel brandished semiautomatic weapons and refused requests to take them outside.\n\nBush was assigned by Reagan to chair two special task forces, on deregulation and international drug smuggling. The deregulation task force reviewed hundreds of rules, making specific recommendations on which ones to amend or revise, in order to curb the size of the federal government. The drug smuggling task force coordinated federal efforts to reduce the quantity of drugs entering the United States. Both were popular issues with conservatives, and Bush, largely a moderate, began courting them through his work.\n\nOn June 14, 1984, Bush cast a tie-breaking vote in the Senate in favor of the 10-warhead MX missile system.\n\nReagan and Bush ran for reelection in 1984. Their Democratic opponent, Walter Mondale, made history by choosing a woman, New York Representative Geraldine Ferraro, as his running mate. She and Bush squared off in a single televised vice presidential debate. Ferraro served as a contrast to the Ivy-League educated Bush; she represented a blue-collar district in Queens, New York. This distinction and her popularity among female journalists left Bush at a disadvantage. Regardless, the Reagan-Bush ticket won in a landslide against the Mondale-Ferraro ticket. Early into his second term as vice president, Bush and his aides were planning a run for the presidency in 1988. By the end of 1985, a committee had been established and over two million dollars were raised for Bush.\n\nOn July 13, 1985, Bush became the first vice president to serve as acting president when Reagan underwent surgery to remove polyps from his colon; Bush served as the acting president for approximately eight hours.\n\nIn 1986, the Reagan administration was shaken by a scandal when it was revealed that administration officials had secretly arranged weapon sales to Iran. The officials had used the proceeds to fund the anti-communist Contras in Nicaragua, which was a direct violation of law. The scandal became known as the Iran–Contra affair. When news of the public embarrassment broke to the media, Bush, like Reagan, stated that he had been \"out of the loop\" and unaware of the diversion of funds, although this was later questioned. His diaries from that time stated \"I'm one of the few people that know fully the details\" and as a result of six pardons by Bush, the independent counsel's final report on the Iran–Contra affair pointedly noted: \"The criminal investigation of Bush was regrettably incomplete.\"\n\nIn March 1986, Bush outlined the government's policy on the combating of terrorism. In an interagency task force report presented to President Reagan, Bush publicly stated that the strategy of the federal government was to retaliate without \"wantonly\" terminating human lives.\n\nIn May 1986, Bush underwent a procedure to remove a malignant growth from his left cheek. His spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said that doctors had found the growth weeks earlier.\nIn September 1987, Bush embarked on a month long trip to Poland and European allied countries. On September 22, Bush cast a tie breaking vote in the Senate to save the Strategic Defense Initiative from receiving a 800 million cut in funding. On September 28, Bush delivered a televised address pledging that the US would forever be aligned with Poland.\n\nOn July 3, 1988, the guided missile cruiser accidentally shot down Iran Air Flight 655, killing 290 passengers. Bush said that he would \"never apologize for the United States of America. Ever. I don't care what the facts are.\"\n\nAs early as 1985, Bush had been planning a presidential run; he entered the Republican primary for President of the United States in October 1987. His challengers for the Republican presidential nomination included U.S. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, U.S. Representative Jack Kemp of New York, former Governor Pete du Pont of Delaware, and conservative Christian televangelist Pat Robertson.\n\nBush was considered the early frontrunner for the nomination, but he came in third in the Iowa caucus, behind winner Dole and runner-up Robertson. Much as Reagan had done in 1980, Bush reorganized his staff and concentrated on the New Hampshire primary. With Dole ahead in New Hampshire, Bush ran television commercials portraying the senator as a tax raiser; he rebounded to win the state's primary. Following the primary, Bush and Dole had a joint media appearance, when the interviewer asked Dole if he had anything to say to Bush, Dole said, in response to the ads, \"yeah, stop lying about my record!\" in an angry tone. This is thought to have hurt Dole's campaign to Bush's benefit. Bush continued seeing victory, winning many Southern primaries as well. Once the multiple-state primaries such as Super Tuesday began, Bush's organizational strength and fundraising lead were impossible for the other candidates to match, and the nomination was his.\n\nAs the 1988 Republican National Convention approached, there was much speculation who Bush would choose to be his running mate. He selected little-known U.S. Senator Dan Quayle of Indiana, who was favored by conservatives. Despite Reagan's popularity, Bush trailed Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis, then Governor of Massachusetts, in most polls.\n\nBush was occasionally criticized for his lack of eloquence when compared to Reagan, but he delivered a well-received speech at the 1988 Republican National Convention. Known as the \"thousand points of light\" speech, the presentation described Bush's vision of America. He endorsed the Pledge of Allegiance, capital punishment, and gun rights, and drew upon his long-standing Christian beliefs to support both prayer in schools and oppose abortion. The speech at the convention included Bush's famous pledge: \".\"\nThe general election campaign between the two men was described in 2008 as one of the dirtiest in modern times. Bush blamed Dukakis for polluting the Boston Harbor as the Governor of Massachusetts. Bush also pointed out that Dukakis was opposed to a law that would require all students to say the Pledge of Allegiance, a topic well covered in Bush's nomination acceptance speech.\n\nDukakis's unconditional opposition to capital punishment led to a pointed question being asked during the presidential debates. Moderator Bernard Shaw asked Dukakis if he would hypothetically support the death penalty if his wife, Kitty, were raped and murdered. Dukakis's response of no, as well as a provocative ad about convicted felon Willie Horton, contributed toward Bush's characterization of Dukakis as \"soft on crime\".\n\nBush defeated Dukakis and his running mate, Lloyd Bentsen, in the Electoral College, by 426 to 111 (Bentsen received one vote from a faithless elector). In the nationwide popular vote, Bush took 53.4% of the ballots cast while Dukakis received 45.6%. Bush became the first serving vice president to be elected president since Martin Van Buren in 1836 as well as the first person to succeed someone from his own party to the presidency via election to the office in his own right since Herbert Hoover in 1929.\n\nBush was inaugurated on January 20, 1989, succeeding Ronald Reagan. He entered office at a period of change in the world; the fall of the Berlin Wall came early in his presidency, and the collapse of the Soviet Union came in 1991. He ordered military operations in Panama and the Persian Gulf, and, at one point, was recorded as having a record-high approval rating of 89%.\n\nIn his Inaugural Address, Bush said:\n\nEarly in his term, Bush faced the problem of what to do with leftover deficits spawned during the Reagan years. At $220 billion in 1990, the deficit had tripled since 1980. Bush was dedicated to curbing the deficit, believing that America could not continue to be a leader in the world without doing so. He began an effort to persuade the Democratic controlled Congress to act on the budget; with Republicans believing that the best way was to cut government spending, and Democrats convinced that the only way would be to raise taxes, Bush faced problems when it came to consensus building.\n\nIn the wake of a struggle with Congress, Bush was forced by the Democratic majority to raise tax revenues; as a result, many Republicans felt betrayed because Bush had promised \"no new taxes\" in his 1988 campaign. Perceiving a means of revenge, Republican congressmen defeated Bush's proposal, which would enact spending cuts and tax increases that would reduce the deficit by $500 billion over five years. Scrambling, Bush accepted the Democrats' demands for higher taxes and more spending, which alienated him from Republicans and gave way to a sharp decrease in popularity. Bush would later say that he wished he had never signed the bill. Near the end of the 101st Congress, the president and congressional members reached a compromise on a budget package that increased the marginal tax rate and phased out exemptions for high-income taxpayers. Although he originally demanded a reduction in the capital gains tax, Bush relented on this issue as well. This agreement with the Democratic leadership in Congress proved to be a turning point in the Bush presidency; his popularity among Republicans never fully recovered.\n\nComing at around the same time as the budget deal, America entered into a mild recession, lasting for six months. Many government programs, such as welfare, increased. As the unemployment rate edged upward in 1991, Bush signed a bill providing additional benefits for unemployed workers. The year 1991 was marked by many corporate reorganizations, which laid off a substantial number of workers. Many now unemployed were Republicans and independents, who had believed that their jobs were secure.\n\nBy his second year in office, Bush was told by his economic advisors to stop dealing with the economy, as they believed that he had done everything necessary to ensure his reelection. By 1992, interest and inflation rates were the lowest in years, but by midyear the unemployment rate reached 7.8%, the highest since 1984. In September 1992, the Census Bureau reported that 14.2% of all Americans lived in poverty. At a press conference in 1990, Bush told reporters that he found foreign policy more enjoyable.\n\nOn April 5, 1989, Bush submitted to Congress the Educational Excellence Act of 1989, a seven program education legislative proposal with the intent of achieving \"a better-educated America.\" The proposal was opposed by Republicans seeking to shrink government's role in education and met with a lack of enthusiasm by Democrats. A week after submitting the proposal, Bush said his administration was seeking to provide waivers on \"some regulations for poorer communities\" and create \"a kind of performance-driven partial deregulation of education\" that would grant federal funding when schools showed high levels of accountability coupled with academic performance. Later in the year, from September 27–28, Bush held a two-day summit with American governors dedicated solely to education reform at the University of Virginia, the group forming a consensus to overhaul the American education system for the country's students to be closer in test scores in science, mathematics, and literacy.\n\nIn the 1990 State of the Union Address, Bush revealed his interest in his administration spearheading the increase in American high school graduation rates to 90% along with making American students \"first in the world\" in the subjects of math and science by 2000.\n\nIn a speech in the White House East Room on April 18, 1991, Bush called for both public and private citizens to become involved with education reform: \"To those who want to see real improvement in American education, I say there will be no renaissance without revolution. It's time we held our schools, and ourselves, accountable for results.\" On June 3, Bush advocated for community participation in reforming the national education system and insisting America 2000 would fail \"if we try to do it from Washington itself.\" On October 4, Bush met with representatives of the New American Schools Development Corp. at Camp David as the organization sought US$200 million for education reform to aid with the forming of \"new learning environments\". In a November 25 appearance in Columbus, Ohio, Bush joined Governor of Ohio George Voinovich in formally announcing a state version of his education policy, \"Ohio 2000\". Bush concurrently declared he would be involved with a reform of troubled schools and charged the Democrat-controlled Congress with \"fighting tooth and nail against our most important reforms\".\n\nOn July 23, 1992, Bush signed the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, a resuming of \"many programs in the Higher Education Act of 1965.\"\n\nDuring a speech to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing, Bush announced a vision to complete Space Station \"Freedom\", resume exploration of the Moon and begin exploration of Mars. Although a space station was eventually constructed–work on the International Space Station began in 1998–other work has been confounded by NASA budgetary issues. In 1998, Bush received the Rotary National Award for Space Achievement's National Space Trophy for his pioneering leadership of the U.S. space program.\n\nDuring his presidency, Bush signed a number of major bills into law, including the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; this was one of the most pro-civil rights bills in decades. He was also the only president to successfully veto a civil rights act, having vetoed the job-discrimination protection Civil Rights Act of 1990. Bush feared racial quotas would be imposed, but later approved watered-down Civil Rights Act of 1991. He worked to increase federal spending for education, childcare, and advanced technology research. He also signed the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act which provides monetary compensation of people who had contracted cancer and a number of other specified diseases as a direct result of their exposure to atmospheric nuclear weapons testing undertaken by the United States during the Cold War, or their exposure to high levels of radon while doing uranium mining. In dealing with the environment, Bush reauthorized the Clean Air Act, requiring cleaner burning fuels. He quarreled with Congress over an eventually signed bill to aid police in capturing criminals, and signed into law a measure to improve the nation's highway system. Bush signed the Immigration Act of 1990, which led to a 40 percent increase in legal immigration to the United States.\n\nBush became a life member of the National Rifle Association early in 1988 and had campaigned as a \"pro-gun\" candidate with the NRA's endorsement. In March 1989, he placed a temporary ban on the import of certain semiautomatic rifles. This action cost him endorsement from the NRA in 1992. Bush publicly resigned his life membership in the organization after receiving a form letter from the NRA depicting agents of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms as \"jack-booted thugs.\" He called the NRA letter a \"vicious slander on good people.\"\n\nPresident Bush devoted attention to voluntary service as a means of solving some of America's most serious social problems. He often used the \"thousand points of light\" theme to describe the power of citizens to solve community problems. In his 1989 inaugural address, President Bush said, \"I have spoken of a thousand points of light, of all the community organizations that are spread like stars throughout the Nation, doing good.\"\n\nFour years later, in his report to the nation on The Points of Light Movement, President Bush said, \"Points of Light are the soul of America. They are ordinary people who reach beyond themselves to touch the lives of those in need, bringing hope and opportunity, care and friendship. By giving so generously of themselves, these remarkable individuals show us not only what is best in our heritage but what all of us are called to become.\"\n\nIn 1990, the Points of Light Foundation was created as a nonprofit organization in Washington to promote this spirit of volunteerism. In 2007, the Points of Light Foundation merged with the Hands on Network with the goal of strengthening volunteerism, streamlining costs and services and deepening impact. Points of Light, the organization created through this merger, has approximately 250 affiliates in 22 countries and partnerships with thousands of nonprofits and companies dedicated to volunteer service around the world. In 2012, Points of Light mobilized 4 million volunteers in 30 million hours of service worth $635 million.\n\nOn October 16, 2009, President Barack Obama held a Presidential Forum on Service hosted by former President George H. W. Bush and Points of Light at the George Bush Presidential Library Center on the campus of Texas A&M University. The event celebrated the contributions of more than 4,500 Daily Point of Light award winners and honored President Bush's legacy of service and civic engagement.\n\nIn 2011, Points of Light paid tribute to President George H. W. Bush and volunteer service at Washington, D.C.'s John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. President Bush was joined by Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush to highlight the role volunteer service plays in people's lives.\n\nPresident Bush created the Daily Point of Light Award in 1989 to recognize ordinary Americans from all walks of life taking direct and consequential voluntary action in their communities to solve serious social problems. The President focused great attention on these individuals and organizations, both to honor them for their tremendous work and to call the nation to join them and multiply their efforts. By the end of his administration, President Bush had recognized 1,020 Daily Points of Light representing all 50 states and addressing issues ranging from care for infants and teenagers with AIDS to adult illiteracy and from gang violence to job training for the homeless. The Daily Point of Light continues to be awarded by Points of Light; up until his death President Bush continued to sign all of the awards.\n\nOn July 15, 2013, President Barack Obama welcomed President Bush to the White House to celebrate the 5,000th Daily Point of Light Award. They bestowed the award on Floyd Hammer and Kathy Hamilton of Union, Iowa, for their work founding Outreach, a nonprofit that delivers free meals to hungry children in 15 countries.\n\nBush made two appointments to the Supreme Court of the United States — David Souter in 1990, and Clarence Thomas in 1991. Additionally, he appointed 42 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 148 judges to the United States district courts. Among these was Vaughn Walker, a gay man who ruled that California's Proposition 8 amendment was unconstitutional. Bush also experienced a number of judicial appointment controversies, as 11 nominees for 10 federal appellate judgeships were not processed by the Democratically-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee.\n\nIn the 1980s, Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega, a once U.S.-supportive leader who was later accused of spying for Fidel Castro and using Panama to traffic drugs into the United States, was one of the most recognizable names in America and was constantly in the press. The struggle to remove him from power began in the Reagan administration, when economic sanctions were imposed on the country; this included prohibiting American companies and government from making payments to Panama and freezing $56 million in Panamanian funds in American banks. Reagan sent more than 2,000 American troops to Panama as well. Unlike Reagan, Bush was able to remove Noriega from power, but his administration's unsuccessful post-invasion planning hindered the needs of Panama during the establishment of the young democratic government.\n\nIn May 1989, Panama held democratic elections, in which Guillermo Endara was elected president; the results were then annulled by Noriega's government. In response, Bush sent 2,000 more troops to the country, where they began conducting regular military exercises in Panamanian territory (in violation of prior treaties). Bush then removed an embassy and ambassador from the country, and dispatched additional troops to Panama to prepare the way for an upcoming invasion. Noriega suppressed an October military coup attempt and massive protests in Panama against him, but after a U.S. serviceman was shot by Panamanian forces in December 1989, Bush ordered 24,000 troops into the country with an objective of removing Noriega from power; \"Operation Just Cause\" was a large-scale American military operation, and the first in more than 40 years that was not related to the Cold War.\n\nThe mission was controversial, but American forces achieved control of the country and Endara assumed the presidency. Noriega surrendered to the United States and was convicted and imprisoned on racketeering and drug trafficking charges in April 1992. President Bush and First Lady Barbara Bush visited Panama in June 1992, to give support to the first post-invasion Panamanian government. The visit was marred by protests that broke into gunfire and tear gas, forcing Bush to leave a rally.\n\nIn 1989, just after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Bush met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev in a conference on the Mediterranean island of Malta. The administration had been under intense pressure to meet with the Soviets, but not all initially found the Malta Summit to be a step in the right direction; General Brent Scowcroft, among others, was apprehensive about the meeting, saying that it might be \"premature\" due to concerns where, according to Condoleezza Rice, \"expectations [would be] set that something was going to happen, where the Soviets might grandstand and force [the U.S.] into agreements that would ultimately not be good for the United States.\" But European leaders, including François Mitterrand and Margaret Thatcher, encouraged Bush to meet with Gorbachev, something that he did on December 2 and 3, 1989. Although no agreements were signed, the meeting was viewed largely as being an important one; when asked about nuclear war, Gorbachev responded, \"I assured the President of the United States that the Soviet Union would never start a hot war against the United States of America. And we would like our relations to develop in such a way that they would open greater possibilities for cooperation... This is just the beginning. We are just at the very beginning of our road, long road to a long-lasting, peaceful period.\" The meeting was received as a very important step to the end of the Cold War.\n\nAnother summit was held in July 1991, where the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I) was signed by Bush and Gorbachev in Moscow. The treaty took nine years in the making and was the first major arms agreement since the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty by Reagan and Gorbachev in 1987. The contentions in START would reduce the strategic nuclear weapons of the United States and the USSR by about 35% over seven years, and the Soviet Union's land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles would be cut by 50%. Bush described START as \"a significant step forward in dispelling half a century of mistrust\". After the dissolution of the USSR in 1991, President Bush and Russian president Boris Yeltsin declared a U.S.–Russian strategic partnership, marking the end of the Cold War.\n\nOn August 2, 1990, Iraq, led by Saddam Hussein, invaded its oil-rich neighbor to the south, Kuwait; Bush condemned the invasion and began rallying opposition to Iraq in the United States and among European, Asian, and Middle Eastern allies. Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney traveled to Saudi Arabia to meet with King Fahd; Fahd requested United States military aid in the matter, fearing a possible invasion of his country as well. The request was met initially with Air Force fighter jets. Iraq made attempts to negotiate a deal that would allow the country to take control of half of Kuwait. Bush rejected this proposal and insisted on a complete withdrawal of Iraqi forces. The planning of a ground operation by U.S.-led coalition forces began forming in September 1990, headed by General Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr.. Bush spoke before a joint session of the United States Congress regarding the authorization of air and land attacks, laying out four immediate objectives: \"Iraq must withdraw from Kuwait completely, immediately, and without condition. Kuwait's legitimate government must be restored. The security and stability of the Persian Gulf must be assured. And American citizens abroad must be protected.\" He then outlined a fifth, long-term objective: \"Out of these troubled times, our fifth objective — a new world order — can emerge: a new era — freer from the threat of terror, stronger in the pursuit of justice, and more secure in the quest for peace. An era in which the nations of the world, East and West, North and South, can prosper and live in harmony ... A world where the rule of law supplants the rule of the jungle. A world in which nations recognize the shared responsibility for freedom and justice. A world where the strong respect the rights of the weak.\" With the United Nations Security Council opposed to Iraq's violence, Congress authorized the use of military force with a set goal of returning control of Kuwait to the Kuwaiti government, and protecting America's interests abroad.\n\nEarly on the morning of January 17, 1991, allied forces launched the first attack, which included more than 4,000 bombing runs by coalition aircraft. This pace would continue for the next four weeks, until a ground invasion was launched on February 24, 1991. Allied forces penetrated Iraqi lines and pushed toward Kuwait City while on the west side of the country, forces were intercepting the retreating Iraqi army. Bush made the decision to stop the offensive after a mere 100 hours. Critics labeled this decision premature, as hundreds of Iraqi forces were able to escape; Bush responded by saying that he wanted to minimize U.S. casualties. Opponents further charged that Bush should have continued the attack, pushing Hussein's army back to Baghdad, then removing him from power. Bush explained that he did not give the order to overthrow the Iraqi government because it would have \"incurred incalculable human and political costs... We would have been forced to occupy Baghdad and, in effect, rule Iraq.\"\n\nBush's approval ratings skyrocketed after the successful offensive. Additionally, President Bush and Secretary of State Baker felt the coalition victory had increased U.S. prestige abroad and believed there was a window of opportunity to use the political capital generated by the coalition victory to revitalize the Arab-Israeli peace process. The administration immediately returned to Arab-Israeli peacemaking following the end of the Gulf War; this resulted in the Madrid Conference, later in 1991.\n\nFaced with a humanitarian disaster in Somalia that was exacerbated by a complete breakdown in civil order, the United Nations had created the UNOSOM I mission in April 1992 to aid the situation through humanitarian efforts, though the mission failed. The Bush administration proposed American aid to the region by assisting in creating a secure environment for humanitarian efforts and UN Resolution 794 was unanimously adopted by the Security Council on December 3, 1992. A lame duck president, Bush launched Operation Restore Hope the following day under which the United States would assume command in accordance with Resolution 794. Fighting would escalate and continue into the Clinton administration.\n\nDuring an April 28, 1989 appearance in the press room of the White House, Bush announced that the U.S. would continue a deal with Japan to produce the FSX advanced fighter jet. He said that promises had been made that American jobs and technology would be safe and the proposal would bolster security for both the U.S. and Japan.\n\nOn November 21, 1989, Bush signed a measure that guaranteed reparations to Japanese-Americans who were relocated into internment camps during World War II. Congress authorized US$20,000 () for each survivor.\n\nOn March 12, 1990, Bush met for an hour with former Prime Minister of Japan Noboru Takeshita to discuss shared economic issues and \"the fact that their solution will require extraordinary efforts on both sides of the Pacific.\"\n\nOn December 6, 1991, Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa apologized to the United States for the attack on Pearl Harbor. The following day — fiftieth anniversary of the attack — Bush accepted Japan's apology for the event that drew the United States into World War II. Bush urged that progress be made in improving relations between the U.S. and Japan.\n\nOn June 18, 1990, White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater confirmed President Bush had sent Prime Minister of Israel Yitzhak Shamir a letter in which he congratulated the latter on his election and urged him to support the proposed \"Shamir initiative for peace\", which would involve the participation of Palestinian Arabians in local elections. On June 20, Bush suspended American dialogue with the Palestine Liberation Organization for the latter's refusal to condemn the Palestinian guerrilla raid of an Israeli beach the previous month.\n\nOn August 11, 1992, following a meeting between President Bush and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, Bush announced he would seek the approval of Congress to bestow Israel up to $10 billion in loan guarantees to assist the country with its absorbing of Soviet Union immigrants.\n\nThe Bush administration and the Progressive Conservative Prime Minister of Canada Brian Mulroney spearheaded the negotiations of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). The agreement would eliminate the majority of tariffs on products that were traded among the United States, Canada, and Mexico. This would encourage trade among the countries. The treaty also restricted patents, copyrights, and trademarks, and outlined the removal of investment restrictions among the three countries. President Bush announced the completion of NAFTA during a Rose Garden appearance on August 12, 1992, calling it the \"beginning of a new era\".\n\nThe agreement came under heavy scrutiny amongst mainly Democrats, who charged that NAFTA resulted in a loss of American jobs. NAFTA also contained no provisions for labor rights; according to the Bush administration, the trade agreement would generate economic resources necessary to enable Mexico's government to overcome problems of funding and enforcement of its labor laws. Bush needed a renewal of negotiating authority to move forward with the NAFTA trade talks. Such authority would enable the president to negotiate a trade accord that would be submitted to Congress for a vote, thereby avoiding a situation in which the president would be required to renegotiate with trading partners those parts of an agreement that Congress wished to change. While initial signing was possible during his term, negotiations made slow, but steady, progress. President Clinton would go on to make the passage of NAFTA a priority for his administration, despite its conservative and Republican roots—with the addition of two side agreements—to achieve its passage in 1993.\n\nThe treaty has since been defended as well as criticized further. The American economy has grown 54% since the adoption of NAFTA in 1993, with 25 million new jobs created; this was seen by some as evidence of NAFTA being beneficial to the United States. With talk in early 2008 regarding a possible American withdrawal from the treaty, Carlos M. Gutierrez, current United States Secretary of Commerce, writes, \"Quitting NAFTA would send economic shock waves throughout the world, and the damage would start here at home.\" But John J. Sweeney, President of the AFL-CIO, wrote in \"The Boston Globe\" that \"the U.S. trade deficit with Canada and Mexico ballooned to twelve times its pre-NAFTA size, reaching $111 billion in 2004.\"\n\nIn keeping with tradition, Bush issued a series of pardons during his last days in office. On December 24, 1992, he granted executive clemency to six former government employees implicated in the Iran-Contra scandal of the late 1980s, most prominently former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger. Bush described Weinberger, who was scheduled to stand trial on January 5, 1993, for criminal charges related to Iran-Contra, as a \"true American patriot\".\n\nIn addition to Weinberger, Bush pardoned Duane R. Clarridge, Clair E. George, Robert C. McFarlane, Elliott Abrams, and Alan G. Fiers Jr., all of whom had been indicted and/or convicted of criminal charges by an Independent Counsel headed by Lawrence Walsh.\n\nGeorge H. W. Bush received honorary degrees from several American and International Universities, including:\n\nIn 1990, \"Time \"magazine named him the Man of the Year. In 1991, the U.S. Navy Memorial Foundation awarded Bush its Lone Sailor award for his naval service and his subsequent government service. In 1993, he was made an Honorary Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath by Queen Elizabeth II. In 2009, he received the PGA Tour Lifetime Achievement Award and was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame two years later.\n\nIn early 1992, Bush announced that he would seek a second term. A coalition victory in the Persian Gulf War and high approval ratings made re-election seem likely. As a result, many leading Democrats declined to seek their party's presidential nomination. On the negative side, Bush's popularity was reduced by an economic recession and doubts of whether he properly ended the Gulf War.\n\nConservative political columnist Pat Buchanan challenged Bush for the Republican nomination. He shocked political pundits by finishing second, with 37% of the vote in the New Hampshire primary. Bush responded by adopting more conservative positions on issues, in an attempt to undermine Buchanan's base. Once he had secured the nomination, Bush faced his Democratic challenger, Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton. Clinton attacked Bush as a politician who was not doing enough to assist the working middle-class and being \"out of touch\" with the common man, a notion reinforced by reporter Andrew Rosenthal's false report that Bush was \"astonished\" to see a demonstration of a supermarket scanner.\nIn early 1992, the race took an unexpected twist when Texas billionaire H. Ross Perot launched a third party bid, claiming that neither Republicans nor Democrats could eliminate the deficit and make government more efficient. His message appealed to voters across the political spectrum disappointed with both parties' perceived fiscal irresponsibility. Perot later bowed out of the race for a short time, then reentered.\n\nClinton had originally been in the lead, until Perot reentered, tightening the race significantly. As Election Day neared, the polls suggested that the race was a dead-heat, but Clinton pulled out on top, with 370 electoral votes to Bush's 168 votes. Perot won 19% of the popular vote, one of the highest totals for a third party candidate in U.S. history, drawing equally from both major candidates, according to exit polls.\n\nSeveral key factors led to Bush's defeat. The ailing economy that arose from recession may have been the main factor in Bush's loss. On Election Day, 7 in 10 voters said that the economy was either \"not so good\" or \"poor\". On the eve of the 1992 election, after unemployment reports of 7.8% appeared (the highest since 1984), Economic recession had contributed to a sharp decline in his approval rating – to just 37%.\n\nConservative Republicans pointed out that Bush's 1990 agreement to raise taxes contradicted his famous \"\" pledge. In doing so, Bush alienated many members of his conservative base, losing their support for his re-election. According to one survey, of the voters who cited Bush's broken \"No New Taxes\" pledge as \"very important\", two thirds voted for Bill Clinton. Bush had raised taxes in an attempt to address an increasing budget deficit, which has largely been attributed to the Reagan tax cuts and military spending of the 1980s. The tax revenue increase had not hurt his approval rating to the extent that it prevented it from reaching its highest level, 89%, by February 1991, during the Gulf War, and four months after the tax vote.\n\nGeorge Bush was widely seen as a \"pragmatic caretaker\" president who lacked a unified and compelling long-term theme in his efforts. Indeed, Bush's sound bite where he refers to the issue of overarching purpose as \"the vision thing\" has become a metonym applied to other political figures accused of similar difficulties. \"He does not say why he wants to be there\", wrote columnist George Will, \"so the public does not know why it should care if he gets his way\".\n\nHis Ivy League and prep school education led to warnings by advisors that his image was too \"preppy\" in 1980, which resulted in deliberate efforts in his 1988 campaign to shed the image, including meeting voters at factories and shopping malls, abandoning set speeches. Bush's campaign director Roger Ailes and others were concerned that Bush was seen as a \"wimp.\" Bush put that image to rest when he displayed evident fury during an interview with Dan Rather on January 25, 1988.\n\nHis ability to gain broad international support for the Gulf War and the war's result were seen as both a diplomatic and military triumph, rousing bipartisan approval, though his decision to withdraw without removing Saddam Hussein left mixed feelings, and attention returned to the domestic front and a souring economy. A \"New York Times\" article mistakenly depicted Bush as being surprised to see a supermarket barcode reader; the report of his reaction exacerbated the notion that he was \"out of touch\". Amid the early 1990s recession, his image shifted from \"conquering hero\" to \"politician befuddled by economic matters\".\n\nAlthough Bush became the first elected Republican president since Hoover in 1932 to lose a reelection bid (facing a 34% approval rating leading up to the 1992 election), the mood did not last. Despite his defeat, Bush climbed back from election day approval levels to leave office in 1993 with a 56% job approval rating. By December 2008, 60% of Americans gave Bush's presidency a positive rating.\n\nUpon leaving office, Bush retired with his wife, Barbara, and temporarily moved into a friend's house near the Tanglewood community of Houston as they prepared to build a permanent retirement house nearby. Ultimately they built their retirement house in the community of West Oaks, near Tanglewood. They had a presidential office within the Park Laureate Building on Memorial Drive. Mimi Swartz of \"National Geographic\" wrote that \"The Bushes are too studiously sedate to live in River Oaks\". They spent their summers at Walker's Point in Kennebunkport, Maine.\n\nIn 1993, Bush was targeted in an assassination plot when he visited Kuwait to commemorate the coalition's victory over Iraq in the Gulf War. Kuwaiti authorities arrested 17 people who were allegedly involved in using a car bomb in an attempt to kill Bush. Through interviews with the suspects and examinations of the bomb's circuitry and wiring, the FBI established that the plot had been directed by the Iraqi Intelligence Service. A Kuwaiti court later convicted all but one of the defendants. Two months later, Clinton retaliated when he ordered the firing of 23 cruise missiles at Iraqi Intelligence Service headquarters in Baghdad. The day before the strike, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright went before the Security Council to present evidence of the Iraqi plot. After the missiles were fired, Vice President Al Gore said the attack \"was intended to be a proportionate response at the place where this plot\" to assassinate Bush \"was hatched and implemented\".\n\nIn September 1993, Bush and other living former presidents were invited back to the White House for an Arab-Israeli peace accord. They also made the case to Clinton for a repeal of NAFTA.\n\nIn April 1994, Bush attended the funeral of Richard Nixon.\n\nIn the 1994 gubernatorial elections, his sons George W. and Jeb concurrently ran for Governor of Texas and Governor of Florida. The elder Bush frequently telephoned campaign headquarters for updates on the race. George W. won his race against Ann Richards while Jeb lost to Lawton Chiles. After the results came in, the elder Bush told ABC, \"I have very mixed emotions. Proud father, is the way I would sum it all up.\" Jeb would again run for governor of Florida in 1998 and win at the same time that his brother George W. won re-election in Texas. It marked the second time in United States history that a pair of brothers served simultaneously as governors.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1999, he served as the chairman of the board of trustees for Eisenhower Fellowships, and from 2007 to 2009 was chairman of the National Constitution Center.\n\nOn September 28, 1994, Bush said he was opposed to sending American troops to Haiti, citing his loss of confidence in President of Haiti Jean-Bertrand Aristide while speaking to business and civic leaders in Houston.\n\nIn an October 22, 1994 speech in Cancún, Mexico, Bush said history would vindicate him for not attempting to force Saddam Hussein out of power while in office: \"The Mideast peace talks that offer hope to the world would never have started if we had done that. The Arabs would never have talked to us.\"\nOn July 17, 1995, Bush returned to the White House for the unveiling of his official portrait in an East Room ceremony attended by former members of his administration.\n\nIn September 1995, Bush met with President of Vietnam Lê Đức Anh and party secretary Đỗ Mười in Vietnam. On September 2, Bush and his son George W. participated in a parade commemorating World War II in Fredericksburg, Texas, where the elder Bush reasoned the United States had become united in the aftermath of the attack on Pearl Harbor and stressed America would have to stay involved in world affairs to continue its unity.\n\nOn July 26, 1996, Bush met with Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole and pledged he would do everything in his power to aid in securing a victory for Dole in the upcoming presidential election. The two met again in October while Dole was preparing for upcoming debates with President Clinton. Bush's experience with debating Clinton prompting Dole to seek out his advice.\n\nIn February 1997, Bush endorsed the chemical weapon banning treaty supported by United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, saying the United States would need to approve the treaty ahead of the April deadline.\n\nIn April 1997, Bush gave a speech at a convocation of a weekend conference analyzing his presidency and joined President Bill Clinton, former President Ford, and Nancy Reagan in signing the \"Summit Declaration of Commitment\" in advocating for participation by private citizens in solving domestic issues within the United States. Also in April 1997, the Houston Intercontinental Airport was renamed George Bush Intercontinental Airport after a proposal received the unanimous approval of the Houston City Council. The renaming took effect on May 2, with Bush presiding over the ceremonies as he took a 50-minute flight during the official changeover.\nIn August 1997, Bush agreed to be interviewed by \"The New York Times\", as long as he would not be portrayed as giving credit to himself over the balanced budget deal that was composed by President Clinton and House Speaker Newt Gingrich. During a telephone interview, he stated his belief that history would show that his administration laid the groundwork for the agreement.\n\nPresident Bush was Honorary Chairman of Points of Light, an international nonprofit dedicated to engaging more people and resources in solving serious social problems through voluntary service.\n\nIn January 1999, Bush spoke in the Old Senate chamber as part of a lecture series for Senators in an address warning against the collapse of political decorum and invasions into the privacy of individuals.\n\nIn February 1999, Bush was part of the American delegation to the funeral of Hussein of Jordan in Amman.\n\nIn April 1999, Bush called for the release of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet when Spain had him arrested and sought to try him for human rights violations.\n\nIn May 1999, Bush and his wife Barbara honored six senior citizens during the annual Ageless Heroes honors in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nHis eldest son, George W. Bush, was inaugurated as the 43rd president of the United States on January 20, 2001, and re-elected in 2004. Through previous administrations, the elder Bush had ubiquitously been known as \"George Bush\" or \"President Bush\", but following his son's election the need to distinguish between them has made retronymic forms such as \"George H. W. Bush\" and \"George Bush senior\" and colloquialisms such as \"Bush 41\" and \"Bush the Elder\" much more common. H.W. Bush was traveling to Minnesota for a speaking engagement on the day of the September 11 attacks. George W. made multiple calls to get in contact with his father before the two men reconnected after the elder Bush had gone to a Brookfield, Wisconsin motel. Bush told biographer Jon Meacham that his son's vice president, Dick Cheney, underwent a change following the September 11 attacks: \"His seeming knuckling under to the real hard-charging guys who want to fight about everything, use force to get our way in the Middle East.\"\n\nIn December 2002, George W. sought counsel from the elder Bush regarding Iraq and informed him of \"my efforts to rally the Saudis, Jordanians, Turks, and others in the Middle East\".\n\nFollowing the fall of Baghdad, Bush praised George W. in an April 2003 email to the incumbent president. In a September 14, 2003 interview with BBC, Bush stated his support for a continuation of his son's war against terrorism and the US was in a better state in terms of protecting itself from terrorism than two years prior. While visiting Houston VA Medical Center on December 17, Bush told reporters of his satisfaction with the capture of Saddam Hussein.\n\nPresident and Mrs. Bush attended the state funeral of Ronald Reagan in June 2004, and of Gerald Ford in January 2007. One month later, he was awarded the Ronald Reagan Freedom Award in Beverly Hills, California, by former First Lady Nancy Reagan. Despite Bush's political differences with Bill Clinton, reports acknowledged that the two former presidents had become friends. He and Clinton appeared together in television ads in 2005, encouraging aid for victims of Hurricane Katrina and the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami.\n\nIn October 2004, Bush endorsed Pete Sessions and Ted Poe in Texas congressional races.\n\nIn February 2006, Bush delivered a eulogy at the funeral of Coretta Scott King.\n\nOn March 2, 2006, President Bush announced that his father would lead the American delegation to the inauguration of President-elect of the Republic of Portugal Aníbal Cavaco Silva.\n\nIn September 2006, Bush campaigned for New Jersey Senate candidate Thomas Kean Jr., praising him as well as stating his respect for Kean calling on the resignation of US Defense Secretary Rumsfeld. Kean went on to lose the election. The following month, he was honored by the National Italian American Foundation (NIAF) with the NIAF One America Award for fundraising, with Bill Clinton, for the victims of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami and Hurricane Katrina.\n\nOn February 18, 2008, Bush formally endorsed Senator John McCain for President of the United States. The endorsement offered a boost to McCain's campaign, because the Arizona Senator had been facing criticism among many conservatives. During a trip to Tokyo, Japan, Bush said that he would campaign vigorously against Senator Hillary Clinton if she were to initiate a presidential bid.\n\nIn March 2008, Bush met with President of the People's Republic of China Hu Jintao, who praised Bush for his attempts at harmonizing relations between the US and China.\nDuring an address at the University of Kansas on November 16, 2008, Bush said that President-elect Obama would encounter diverse issues upon taking office and experience a wave of enthusiasm.\n\nOn January 10, 2009, George H. W. and George W. Bush were both present at the commissioning of (CVN-77), the tenth and last supercarrier of the United States Navy. Bush paid a visit to the carrier again on May 26, 2009.\n\nIn June 2009, Bush came out in support for Sonia Sotomayor to receive fair hearings in her nomination for Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. \"She was called by somebody a racist once. That's not right. I mean, that's not fair. It doesn't help the process. You're out there name-calling. So let them decide who they want to vote for and get on with it.\"\nIn October 2009, Bush criticized the rampant criticism of the current times, reflecting that he did not receive such \"day in and day out\" during his presidency and named Keith Olbermann and Rachel Maddow of MSNBC as examples; he called the two \"sick puppies.\" Also during that month, on October 16, Bush joined President Barack Obama onstage at Texas A&M University for a promotion of volunteering.\n\nFollowing in the footsteps of his father and grandfather, Bush was an avid golfer. In 2011, he was inducted in the World Golf Hall of Fame.\n\nOn February 15, 2011, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom—the highest civilian honor in the United States—by President Barack Obama.\n\nOn March 29, 2012, Bush endorsed Mitt Romney for the Republican presidential nomination in the 2012 Presidential election. NBC News reported that Bush had chosen to support Romney three months prior.\n\nIn July 2013, Bush had his head shaved in a show of support for the two-year-old son of a member of his security detail, who had leukemia. On July 7, Bush met with Gabrielle Giffords for part of her week-long Rights and Responsibilities Tour advocating expanded background checks in relation to firearm purchases.\nIn April 2014, Frederick D. McClure, chief executive of the Bush library foundation, organized a three-day gathering in College Park, Texas, to mark the 25th anniversary of the Bush administration. Also in early 2014, the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation presented the Profile in Courage Award to Bush and Mount Vernon awarded him its first Cyrus A. Ansary Prize. The Kennedy foundation award was presented by Jack Schlossberg, the late president's grandson, to Lauren Bush Lauren, who accepted on her grandfather's behalf. The Ansary prize was presented in Houston with Ansary, Barbara Lucas, Ryan C. Crocker, dean of the Bush school since January 2010, Barbara Bush, and Curt Viebranz in attendance with the former president. Bush directed $50,000 of the prize to the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, and $25,000 will fund an animation about the Siege of Yorktown for Mount Vernon. Viebranz and Lucas represented Mount Vernon at the presentation.\n\nOn June 12, 2014, Bush fulfilled a long-standing promise by skydiving on his 90th birthday. He made the parachute jump from a helicopter near his home at 11:15 a.m. in Kennebunkport, Maine. The jump marked the eighth time the former president had skydived, including jumps on his 80th and 85th birthday as well. He had tweeted about the incident prior to the jump, saying \"It's a wonderful day in Maine — in fact, nice enough for a parachute jump.\"\nOn December 7, 2016, Bush and former Senator Bob Dole commemorated the 75th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor by appearing at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University.\n\nIn November 2014, George W. confirmed that his father wanted Jeb to launch a presidential bid in 2016. Jeb decided to run for president, but struggled and withdrew from the Republican primary in the wave of anti-establishment sentiment led by Donald Trump. All three Bushes emerged as frequent critics of Trump's policies and speaking style, while Trump frequently criticized George W. Bush's presidency. George H.W. Bush later said that he voted for the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, in the general election instead of Trump. After Trump won the election, Bush sent him a congratulatory message.\n\nOn February 5, 2017, George and Barbara Bush participated in the coin toss for Super Bowl LI.\n\nOn August 16, 2017, Bush and his son George W. released a joint statement in which they condemned the violence at the Unite the Right rally.\n\nOn September 7, 2017, Bush partnered with former presidents Carter, Clinton, George W. Bush, and Obama to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities.\n\nBush was raised in the Episcopal Church, though by the end of his life his apparent religious beliefs have been considered more in line with Evangelical Christian doctrine and practices. He cited various moments in his life deepening of his faith, including his escape from Japanese forces in 1944, and the death of his three-year-old daughter Robin in 1953. His faith was reflected in his Thousand Points of Light speech, his support for prayer in schools, and his support for the pro-life movement (following his election as vice president).\n\nAfter his wife's death in April 2018, Bush released a statement through his spokesman, saying in part, \"We have faith she is in heaven, and we know life will go on — as she would have it. So, cross the Bushes off your worry list.\"\n\nIn 1991, \"The New York Times\" revealed that Bush was suffering from Graves' disease, a non-contagious thyroid condition that his wife Barbara also had.\n\nOn February 24, 2000, Bush was standing at a reception for 90 minutes when he felt lightheaded. He was admitted to a hospital with an irregular heartbeat. When Bush was released three days later, his doctors said that he had retained the irregularity in his heartbeat. On March 11, 2007, Bush fainted on a golf course and was admitted to the Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, California, but was released the following morning.\n\nIn July 2015, Bush suffered a severe neck injury. At age 91 in October that year, he was wearing a neck brace in his first public engagement since the accident when he threw the ceremonial first pitch for the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park. Bush wrote a letter to president-elect Donald Trump in January 2017 to inform him that because of his poor health, he would not be able to attend Trump's inauguration on January 20; he gave him his best wishes. On January 18, he was admitted to the intensive care unit at Houston Methodist Hospital, where he was sedated for a procedure to treat an acute respiratory problem that was stemming from pneumonia. Three months later, he experienced a recurrence of pneumonia and was hospitalized.\n\nOn November 25, 2017, Bush became the longest-lived U.S. president when he surpassed the 93 years and 165 days lifespan of Gerald Ford, who died in 2006. Bush became the nation's oldest living president as well as the oldest living vice president. He was also the first president to reach the age of 94, reaching that milestone on June 12, 2018. The longest-lived U.S. vice president is John Nance Garner, who died on November 7, 1967, 15 days short of his 99th birthday.\n\nOn April 22, 2018, the day after his wife's funeral, the former president was hospitalized with a blood infection. The infection led to sepsis. One month later, he was briefly hospitalized again, after experiencing fatigue and low blood pressure.\n\nIn October 2017, during the Me Too movement, actress Heather Lind accused Bush of groping her and telling an inappropriate joke. Several other women subsequently made similar allegations, including Christina Baker Kline and Roslyn Corrigan (who was 16 years old at the time of the alleged incident in 2003). Bush apologized for these incidents through his spokesman, Jim McGrath. At the time, an editorial writer for the Washington Post noted that some would relate his behavior to his vascular parkinsonism or other senility related conditions. Symptoms for vascular parkinsonism may include a lack of impulse control and cognitive impairment. The only medication available to treat vascular parkinsonism is also associated with a lack of impulse control, although it is unclear if he was receiving it or not.\n\nBush suffered from vascular parkinsonism, a form of Parkinson's disease that had forced him to use a motorized scooter or wheelchair since at least 2012. He died on November 30, 2018, aged 94, at his home in Houston. Tributes and condolences were offered by former Presidents Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama, and incumbent President Donald Trump. He will lie in state in the United States Capitol rotunda.\n\nAccording to \"USA Today\", the legacy of Bush's presidency was defined by his victory over Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait, and for his presiding over the collapse of the USSR and unification of Germany. The paper said his political legacy would \"continue years later through his son, George W. Bush, who became the 43rd president of the United States.\" Matt Picht from Newsy said that in Bush's legacy, he is remembered as a Foreign Policy President, for presiding over the collapse of the USSR, post Cold War relations with Russia, and for signing the START 1 treaty on nuclear weaponry. Picht wrote that his decision to arrest and depose Panama Dictator Manuel Noriega was popular at the time, but will be less fondly remembered.\n\nAccording to presidential historian Mark K. Updegrove, Bush \"cemented\" the tradition of presidents writing leaving behind letters of support for their successors on the Resolute Desk. While Reagan had been the first modern president to do so in 1989, Bush's move was significant in that his gesture of goodwill was made towards Clinton, the man to whom Bush had just lost the election.\n\nThe George Bush Presidential Library is the nation's tenth presidential library and was built between 1995 and 1997. It contains the presidential and vice presidential papers of Bush and the vice presidential papers of Dan Quayle. It was dedicated on November 6, 1997, and opened to the public shortly thereafter; the architectural firm of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum designed the complex.\n\nThe George Bush Presidential Library and Museum is located on a site on the west campus of Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, on a plaza adjoining the Presidential Conference Center and the Texas A&M Academic Center. The Library operates under NARA's administration and the provisions of the Presidential Libraries Act of 1955.\n\nThe Bush School of Government and Public Service is a graduate public policy school at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, that was established in 1995. The graduate school is part of the presidential library complex, and offers four programs — two master's degree programs (Public Service and Administration, and International Affairs) and three certificate programs (Advanced International Affairs, Nonprofit Management, and Homeland Security).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36761823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36761823", "title": "Guy Jackson (tennis)", "text": "Guy Jackson (tennis)\n\nGuy Jackson (20 September 1921 – 18 June 1972) was a tennis player and businessman from Ireland.\n\nJackson competed at the Wimbledon Championships on eight occasions, in 1947, 1948, 1949, 1951, 1952, 1953, 1954 and 1960. He made the second round three times.\n\nIn the Davis Cup, Jackson took part in 15 ties, the first in 1948 and last in 1964. He won nine singles rubbers and four doubles matches for Ireland.\n\nJackson, an executive with Guinness Brewery, was one of 12 Irish senior businessmen on board British European Airways Flight 548, which crashed near the town of Staines. There were no survivors.\n"}
{"id": "32930912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32930912", "title": "H. Bonciu", "text": "H. Bonciu\n\nH. Bonciu, or Horia Bonciu (; reportedly born Bercu, Beniamin or Hieronim Haimovici, also known as Bonciu Haimovici, Haimovici Bonciu; May 19, 1893 – April 27, 1950), was a Romanian novelist, poet, journalist and translator, noted especially as an atypical figure on his country's avant-garde scene. His work, comprising several volumes of poetry and two novels, is a mixture of influences from the diverse literary schools of Europe's modernism, and, unusually in the context of Romanian literature, borrows heavily from German-born movements such as Expressionism. The autofictional and cruel detail in Bonciu's narratives makes him a senior figure among Romania's own \"Trăirist\" authors, while its capture of the unnaturally grotesque also finds him as one of the country's Neoromantics and Surrealists.\n\nOpposed by the literary establishment when his erotic subjects became more widely known, and further marginalized for his Jewish origin, H. Bonciu was even prosecuted in the 1930s on grounds of \"pornography\". His work was banned by the local fascist movements, and later selectively censored by the communist regime. The controversy, like his refusal to rally with any particular cultural movement of the interwar, has touched the critical reception of his work, and has introduced a decades-long debate about its contextual value. While some scholars find Bonciu a necessary addition to the modern literary canon and a forerunner of postmodern literature, others describe him as mediocre or pretentious.\n\nBonciu was born in Iași to the Jewish couple Carol Haimovici and Ghizela Nadler. Little is known about his childhood other than the family's move to Bucharest, which happened when he was still a toddler; it was in Bucharest that he completed his primary and secondary education. Bonciu may have been enrolled at the Frederick William University of Berlin. Beyond this uncertain affiliation, it is known that Bonciu must have spent part of his youth in the German Empire and Austria-Hungary, and that such a cultural encounter shaped his entire approach to literature. In a 1997 article, literary historian Ovid Crohmălniceanu assessed: \"among the Romanian writers, only H. Bonciu has had the occasion to encounter proper \"Jugendstil\"\" (\"see Symbolist movement in Romania\").\n\nAs a young adult, Bonciu obtained his main income from trading in umbrellas and curtains. He made his literary debut in 1912, when he published in Bucharest's theatrical magazines \"Rampa\" and \"Cortina\". There was a pause in activity during most of World War I, when Romania fought against Germany and the other Central Powers—he was possibly in enemy territory, but, judging by references in his novels, he may also have seen action in the Romanian Land Forces. One other story places Bonciu in Vienna during much of 1917. According to this account, the expatriate Romanian salesman met and closely befriended the Hungarian poet-activist Endre Ady.\n\nBonciu was probably back in Bucharest in early 1918, as Romania was negotiating a peace with Germany (\"see Romania during World War I\"). His poems and translations from Peter Altenberg were taken up by the theatrical daily \"Scena\", put out in German-occupied Bucharest by dramatist A. de Herz. It has been suggested that Bonciu's avant-garde sympathies and stylistic rebellion has its roots in the period, making him part of the same wave as Tristan Tzara (Romanian inventor of Dadaism), but that he lost momentum by only making public his avant-garde work after 1930.\n\nIn 1920, Bonciu resumed his contribution to \"Rampa\", where he published his translation of poems by Anton Wildgans. That year, he also returned to Vienna, but was still included as a member of \"Rampa\"s editorial staff; in 1921, he inaugurated a long period of activity with another Romanian-based literary newspaper, \"Adevărul Literar și Artistic\". Having established his reputation as a journalist, Bonciu became a regular columnist: his letters, headlined \"Mișcarea artistică de la noi și din străinatate\" (\"The Art Movement in Our Country and Abroad\"), ran in several national newspapers. Among the major periodicals who hosted his work over the next decade are \"Viața Românească\", \"Facla\", \"Azi\", \"Meridian\", and Isac Ludo's \"ADAM\" review. He also began using a number of pen names, including, in addition to \"H. Bonciu\", \"Sigismund Absurdul\" (\"Sigismund the Absurd\")—effectively, his literary alter ego. The other pseudonym he used was \"Bon-Tsu-Haș\".\n\nIn 1924, Bonciu married a Gabriela Kimmel, living, until 1934, in relative isolation from the literary scene. Early in the 1930s, the family had moved back to Iași, where Bonciu set up a new business in the production and distribution of Moldavian wine. On his vineyard, covering some 15 hectares outside of Miroslava, the writer created sweet \"Uricani wine\", seen by some oenologists as one of Romania's finest, and a very popular drink throughout the country. The passion for wine-making later resulted in a friendship between Bonciu and celebrated actor-satirist Constantin Tănase; the latter acclimatized Uricani trunks at his own villa, in Balotești. Bonciu was a regular gambler and drinker, who supplied the bohemian society of Iași with affordable wine. Humorist Păstorel Teodoreanu, who attended this society, recalls: \"Old folks in Iași may still remember Bonciu's devout wine, that every Iași inhabitant back in the day would gorge on at their own will, in Tuflii Café, for 2,50 lei a bottle. [...] Just about every afternoon, the cart would stop on the dot at Unirii Square, facing Traian Café, where [Bonciu] would habitually play a game of chess. Waiting for his master, the gray-haired cart driver would fall asleep on his seat\".\n\nAccording to his journalist colleague Emil Cerbu, Bonciu's return to \"Rampa\" was both a literary revelation and the birth of a new poetic style: \"He had sent in a poem a few days before. A sonnet made remarkable by the brutal force of its imagery. They told him it could not be published, because of one crude word that harmed the entire sonnet. The poet thereafter turned into another person, with another kind of poems. All of these had an internal structure never before seen in Romanian lyrical literature.\" It was during the \"Rampa\" years that observers began referring to Bonciu's synthesis as a local manifestation of Expressionism, the German current having already found a dedicated promoter in Cerbu. From this context were born H. Bonciu's poetry collections \"Lada cu năluci\" (\"A Crate of Apparitions\", 1932) and \"Eu și Orientul. Douăzeci și cinci de sonete\" (\"I and the Orient. Twenty-five Sonnets\", 1933). Both were published with Editura Vremea company. \"Lada cu năluci\" was printed in only 1,000 copies, each featuring Bonciu's autograph and a portrait of his by Tyrolese artist Alfons Walde.\n\nWith time, Bonciu became especially noted as the translator of works by Expressionists, Symbolists and Neoromantics from the area of German culture. Among others, they include Ady, Richard Beer-Hofmann, Klabund, Erich Mühsam, Alfons Petzold, Rainer Maria Rilke, Richard von Schaukal and Carl Spitteler. Of these, his rendition of Rilke's \"What Will You Do, God, When I Die?\" has been singled out for its beauty by critic Simona Vasilache. Additionally, Bonciu published versions of poems by France's pre-Symbolist Charles Baudelaire.\n\nHis full translation of Wildgans' \"Die Sonette an Ead\", with the title \"Poeme către Ead\", came in 1933, also with Editura Vremea. The work won praise from essayist and literary chronicler Ovidiu Papadima, who wrote for the magazine \"Gândirea\" that Bonciu was a \"precious\" and thoughtful translator, whose versions were more polished than Wildgans' originals.\n\n\"Bagaj...\" (\"Luggage\"), also known as \"Strania, dubla existență a unui om în patru labe\" (\"The Strange Double Life of a Man on His All Fours\") or \"Confesiunile unui om în patru labe\" (\"The Confessions of a Man on His All Fours\"), was first published in 1934, marking Bonciu's beginnings as an eccentric novelist. Published by Editura Librăriei Leon Alcaly, its original jacket carries an enthusiastic introductory note, by the modernist doyen, poet and journalist Tudor Arghezi. The originals were liberally illustrated with reproductions of paintings and drawings by the late Vienna Secession artist Egon Schiele.\n\nAllegedly, the novel was a commercial flop, only published in 500 copies. Outside the modernist circles, Romanian critics were generally uninterested in \"Bagaj...\", or unaware that it even existed. Nevertheless, Bonciu continued to write and, in 1936, Alcaly issued his second novel: \"Pensiunea doamnei Pipersberg\" (\"Mrs. Pipersberg's Boarding House\").\n\nThe following period brought Bonciu into the spotlight, as soon as the traditionalist and far right sections of the media began depicting him as one of the most obscene modern Romanian authors. This controversy was in effect sparked by culture critic Nicolae Iorga and his \"Neamul Românesc\" journal. The scandal intensified with time, and Bonciu saw himself included in lists of \"pornographers\", alongside some major or minor modernist writers: Arghezi, Geo Bogza, Mihail Celarianu, Mircea Eliade etc. One such directory, in \"Neamul Românesc\", had Bonciu as the No. 1 obscene writer, with Bogza in second place and N. D. Cocea in at third. In Bonciu's case, the accusations mingled anti-modernism and antisemitism, only focusing on \"Bagaj...\" and simply ignoring the equally provocative content of \"Pensiunea\".\n\nThe accusations found some backing among government officials. Reportedly, Bonciu was first arrested for a short while in 1932, together with Bogza. They were held in Văcărești prison, outside of Bucharest, and joined there by the avant-garde youth of \"Alge\" magazine, all of them disciples of Bogza. Two years later, the case was being revisited by his peers inside the Romanian Writers' Society, where Bonciu's defense was taken by novelist Zaharia Stancu and critic Șerban Cioculescu. Around that date, Constantin Angelescu, Romania's Minister of Public Instruction, imposed state censorship on \"Pensiunea\".\n\nIn 1937, the state opened a case against Bonciu and Bogza, who were again taken into custody. As noted by the Surrealist writer Sașa Pană, this came shortly after the Romanian Academy, through the voice of conservative author Ioan Alexandru Brătescu-Voinești, had openly demanded jail terms for both Bonciu and Bogza. A while after, Bogza latter protested vehemently, calling the anti-modernist campaign an \"offensive toward darkness and intolerance\", while noting that the modest circulations of his and Bonciu's avant-garde work could not justify the scale of repression. Bonciu found an unexpected backer in Eugen Lovinescu, a respected intellectual leader on the moderate side of modernism. Lovinescu admired \"Bagaj...\" for its style, if not for its content, and strongly believed that artists in general were above didactic requirements. Another such voice was that of novelist Liviu Rebreanu, who demanded from the Writers' Society a show of solidarity in condemning the arrests. His demand received backing from Stancu and Cioculescu.\n\nThe arrest was a cause for celebration in the other camp. At the Writers' Society, Rebreanu's motion was defeated after a clash of opinions, which almost resulted in the resignation of Society President Nicolae M. Condiescu. The guild's anti-Bonciu lobby included poet George Gregorian (who declared both detainees to be \"pseudo-writers\") and the formerly accused Eliade (who included himself among the opponents of \"pornographic literature\"). Writing for the fascist gazette \"Sfarmă-Piatră\", the formerly sympathetic reviewer Papadima signaled that \"Haimovici Bonciu\" and Aderca were \"big pigs\" supported by \"the Jewish media\", on whom the state needed to focus its efforts. In a 1938 column for \"Gândirea\", Papadima also contended that Bonciu and the anticlerical Romanian novelist Damian Stănoiu were in reality demanding \"marketing freedom\". In Papadima's account, they abused the notion of artistic liberty, as embodied by the \"high art\" of Baudelaire.\n\nBonciu was released soon after, and, in an interview with \"Azi\" newspaper, described the censorship effort as futile. He also gave a formal reply to the more critical of Lovinescu's pronouncements, writing a lampoon called \"Criticul de porțelan\" (\"The Porcelain Critic\"). This enraged Lovinescu, who then published a sarcastic note regarding Bonciu's public persona, the piece later known as \"Poetul absolut\", \"The Absolute Poet\". It describes Bonciu's \"oriental looks\", athletic frame and sporting passion (\"he does not shy away from walking down Bucharest's streets dressed up in a ski suit\"). According to Lovinescu, that persona clashes badly with Bonciu's demand for sensitivity: \"[he] is the eternal convalescent of an unforgiving disease: literaturitis. Whatever subject one may wish to explore, [...] in less than five minutes the conversation, like in some kind of dance, retreats back to art, naturally his own art, to what he has written, writes, will write, to the torture that is his writing process, to his elevated concepts on beauty, to the eternity of art versus the lies of the present, and so on.\"\n\nIn parallel with his growth as a novelist, Bonciu became known to the literati as a prankster and eccentric social observer. In 1937, at the funeral of novelist Anton Holban, Bonciu grabbed the public eye by seating himself in the coffin, his protest against \"the inequities of the clergy\". Two years later, before the start of World War II, he self-published his third poetry collection, called \"Brom\" (\"Bromine\").\n\nAntisemitism and fascism became official policies in Romania in the late 1930s (\"see Holocaust in Romania\"), and Bonciu found himself excluded from literary life for most of the war years. Under the regime of \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu, his entire work was officially banned throughout the country, alongside that of many other Jewish writers. The censorship trend found as its main opponent the literary historian and polemicist George Călinescu, who made a point of assessing past Jewish contributions (Bonciu and Aderca's included), and presented it to the public in a 1941 treatise on Romanian literature. During the subsequent press campaign targeting Călinescu, \"Gândirea\" accused him of having betrayed Romanian suffering under \"the pointy claw of the Talmud\". According to such notes, Bonciu's novels illustrated the \"poisonous\" influence of Jewish literature.\n\nH. Bonciu's last work of poetry saw print in 1945, soon after war had ended, with Contemporană publishing house. It carries the title \"Requiem\". He died in April 1950, some two years after a communist regime had been imposed on Romania. He was in Bucharest, bedridden, suffering with terminal cancer and receiving farewell visits from others in his generation. One of the last to attend was fellow author Aderca, who recorded Bonciu's bitter joke: \"Do you know which is the most bearable of all ways of dying? [...] someone else's.\"\n\nFor reasons unknown, H. Bonciu refused to openly affiliate with any of the many interwar literary factions which thrived in Greater Romania. In his 1937 companion to 20th century literature, Eugen Lovinescu described him as a paradoxical, outdated and eccentric author: \"the eagerness for novelty, for situations and expressions dominates [in his novels]; but since the novelty dates back to the age of Expressionism, it is currently more outdated than the most up-to-date literature.\" Writing in 2005, Simona Vasilache presented Bonciu as \"a lonely dreamer, terrified by the world like a baby is of bad dreams\". Researcher Paul Cernat also presented Bonciu as isolated from the Romanian avant-garde, and as such \"perhaps a \"franc-tireur\"\".\n\nAccording to critic Gabriela Glăvan, Bonciu's literature is \"hybrid\" and \"borderline\" in that it combines \"an Expressionism with avant-garde touches\" with \"slides into the oneiric and Surrealism. [...] His fragmentary poetic devices, alongside the uncertainty of his belonging to any literary genre, are sufficient elements for Bonciu's classification as an unusual author.\" The same is noted by critic Florina Pîrjol, who reads in Bonciu \"a strange mix of the Expressionistic grotesque and the Surrealistic tenderness.\" In his wartime biographical essay, George Călinescu further argues that Bonciu's overall contribution mixes together \"Neoromantic, Naturalistic and Expressionistic elements. The tendency of personifying the great laws of existence, such as death, the unexpected move [...] into the realm of hallucination, the sarcastic and extravagant \"\" are all Romantic. The Expressionistic parts are the elevation of each moment into an idea, the obfuscation of things into symbolic smoke, the metaphysical interpretation of everyday tragedy. Beyond these, the habit of seeing dramas and issues in all moments of life comes from the German-Jewish writers of the Werfel type.\"\n\nOvid Crohmălniceanu also proposed that Bonciu is in fact an Expressionist by accident, whose actual literary models are the proto-Expressionism of Vienna Secession and (even older) currents born into Austrian culture. Bonciu, he argues, gained an Expressionist profile by performing his own, independent, mix of literary themes: transcendence is borrowed from Neoromanticism, instinctual drive from Naturalism, subjectivity from Impressionism, and \"paneroticism\" from Jugendstil and Symbolism. Other literary historians presume the same connections. Dan Grigorescu suggests that Bonciu's Expressionism was mostly \"exterior\", spread over Jugendstil, Impressionism, Surrealism and various eclectic mixtures; Marian Victor Buciu focuses on Bonciu as a meeting point between the \"Naturalist typology\" and Expressionism, noting that his Surrealism is less supplied. Nevertheless, Călinescu supposes an ideological link between Bonciu and the Romanian Surrealists at \"unu\" magazine, since a \"man with hatstand head\" sketch, by \"unu\" artists Jules Perahim, illustrated one of Bonciu's works. In Călinescu's interpretation, the \"grotesque\" drawing brings to life \"a moment of dementia\", and this is analogous to Bonciu's own intentions: \"H. Bonciu, who despises realism and claims to be writing 'with the red of my arteries and the green of my cerebrospinal fluid', works in the same hieroglyphic mode.\"\n\nSuch nuances notwithstanding, H. Bonciu's contribution was readily annexed to the school of Romanian Expressionism. Dan Grigorescu traces the literary phenomenon to its source: \"In what concerns H. Bonciu, critics have passed a more resolute judgment than on any other Romanian writer to have ever been considered a bearer of Expressionist ideas: he was without doubt the one who generated least debate.\" After it became a point of reference, the definition of Bonciu's work as \"Expressionist\" created some debate among 20th-century scholars. The issue was notably raised by researcher Ovidiu Cotruș, who found it improbable that Romanian Expressionism was as diverse as to reunite the mystical poetry of Lucian Blaga and the crude language of \"Bagaj...\". He therefore demanded some kind of critical revision. However, according to cultural historian Ion Pop, Bonciu remains Romania's only \"integral Expressionist\", although, even in this context, Bonciu's work \"did not record any significant [Expressionist] shakes\".\n\nWith his search for \"authenticity\" in subject and expression, and despite his avant-garde credentials, Bonciu is sometimes included among the younger-generation \"Trăirists\", alongside Max Blecher, Mircea Eliade, Anton Holban or Mihail Sebastian. Crohmălniceanu, who finds an ultimate source of literary \"Trăirism\" in narratives by André Gide, describes Bonciu's novels as \"impressive literary documents\" of the \"Trăirist\" movement. Described as the more experimental voice of this subgenre, and opposed to Holban's conventional approach, Bonciu was also repeatedly compared with a secondary figure in \"Trăirism\", the novelist Constantin Fântâneru. According to reviewer Igor Mocanu, Bonciu, Blecher and Fântâneru share between them a transgression of avant-garde aesthetics and a taste for absurdism: \"These three authors would create [...] a new way of making literature, which took a tiny bit from all the currents and movements of its time. We are dealing with books where, emerging out of an evidently surreal depictions, one comes across dialogues heavily impregnated with the absurd.\" The Bonciu–Blecher comparison is more controversial: various reviewers have noted that, while Bonciu visualizes the suffering of himself and others, Blecher records his real-life combat with Pott disease.\n\nIn Bonciu's novels and his poetry, the sexual function is a tool of apparent liberation, man's only possible flight from existential despair. Beyond the 1937 scandal, Bonciu's breach of sexual convention in his literary subjects was especially criticized by mainstream literati. According to Călinescu, Bonciu suffered from literary \"priapism\", as well as being a \"verbose\" and \"sentimentalist\" author. In \"Poetul absolut\", Lovinescu accused Bonciu of \"glaring tastelessness\" and of promoting an \"obsessive\" eroticism. The erotic fragments, scandalous in their day, were seen with comparatively less displeasure by newer generations of exegetes. \"România Literară\" columnist Ion Simuț notes that they only cover a few pages of Bonciu's entire work, and that the imagery used is rarely \"vulgar\". Looking back on the 1930s, literary theorist Ion Bogdan Lefter notes that, within the self-censoring Romanian literature, Bonciu was one of the very few who ventured to lift the \"prude barrier\" and actually depict the sexual contact, while Cernat suggests that Bonciu's original denunciators barely hid their politicized agenda: \"a xenophobic accusation of Jewified, anti-national, pornography\".\n\nTraditionally, Bonciu's writing style and mastery of the Romanian language have received both attention and praise. Lovinescu found these to be his validation as an artist. In \"Poetul absolut\", he alternated critique with professional respect, concluding that Bonciu's talent deserved \"a better fate.\" He was to elaborate on the topic in 1937, when he wrote: \"The essential merit of [his] novels is a stylistic violence that is still restrained by the remarkable dignity of language and accuracy in the artistic finish. As for the substance, so to say: a sexual release, an obsession [...] haunts therein; the writer's art will not hide his desolation.\" For Călinescu, one of Bonciu's interests as a storyteller is his ability to merge a fantasy narrative and \"piercing\" realistic episodes; others are his \"fine bitterness\" and \"personal note of humor\", even when alternating with \"sad clownings\". Similar comments were made decades later by Nicolae Manolescu, who rediscovered Bonciu as \"a very talented writer\", and by Buciu, who writes that Bonciu's \"imposing rhetorical competence\" outweighed his \"amateurism\".\n\nThis is contrasted by other verdicts. In 21st-century reviews, Bonciu was variously described as an author from the \"second shelf\" or \"bottom bench\" of Romanian literary culture. Ion Simuț writes that Bonciu, a \"minor writer\", generally displays \"the tricks and clichés of aesthetic and moral nonconformity.\" Author Alina Irimescu recommends Bonciu for his depiction of life's \"chaos\", but concludes: \"[he is at times] a middling writer, blinded by the tendencies of his time, who astounds and does not always have a more profound support.\" Florina Pîrjol defines Bonciu's forte as being his portraiture, but notes that his narratives lack \"dynamism and coherence\".\n\nAlthough he nominally took on the classical rhyme schemes such as the sonnet, Bonciu repeatedly disregarded them for convenience. Since the 1930s, various reviewers have consequently described him as semi-failed and lacking structure. George Călinescu's is a mixed review: \"H. Bonciu brings into his poetry a pathos of diurnal life, pessimistic and sarcastic. His general tone is nonetheless shrill, because the author, although he masters the notion of poetry, lacks an artistic persona, being more of an intelligent amateur.\" Writing in 2005, Simuț found Bonciu \"outdated\" and \"utterly modest\" as a poet, linking his work in the field with the late-19th-century Decadent movement. Previously, Călinescu had described Bonciu as \"all too indebted\" to Austrian poetry.\n\nOthers have noted that Bonciu's main intent is in rendering the feeling of being crushed by evil nature, the violence of which requires the subversion of lyrical convention, and even of all rational dealings with his public. As argued by Crohmălniceanu: \"Everything [here] becomes a chemical chart for the despair which his clowning is striving to keep hidden from view.\" The poems are, in Grigorescu's view, Bonciu's most Expressionistic creations.\n\nCrohmălniceanu sees Bonciu's work in lyric poetry as illustrating the sense of hopelessness, coldly disguised under allusions to sadomasochism, or \"the taste for maculation\". He believes that the peak of such works is \"Brom\", where anxiety builds up at the thought of demonic forces about to \"sweep us up\". Reviewers have made special note of \"Living Words\", the artistic credo found in \"Lada cu năluci\":\nAlso remembered is a poem which introduces (and is introduced by) the word \"bleah\", invented by Bonciu as an expression of absolute disgust. Literary columnist Radu Cosașu had admiringly described the novel term as \"a word of havoc, invented by that dark wonder, the poet Bonciu, [...] a word of enigmatic transparency, untranslatable\". Part of Bonciu's work reads:\nBonciu's poems borrow their cultural symbols from very diverse sources. His taste for \"an absurd and secretly terrifying mythology\", in some Sigismund Absurdul pieces, is seen by Crohmălniceanu as a nod to the writings of Christian Morgenstern. \"I and the Orient\", the title of Bonciu's collected sonnets, is likely a reflection of Bonciu's debt to Hanns Heinz Ewers' \"India and I\". Some poems of Bonciu's place artificial, medieval and knightly imagery over an existential moral—this, Vasilache notes, is one similarity between Bonciu and the modernist poet Emil Botta. In one other case, discussing his romance with a Jewish girl, Bonciu references the stereotypical image of his fellow Ashkenazim as \"ruddy\".\n\nIn his presentation of \"Bagaj...\", Tudor Arghezi argued of H. Bonciu: \"From a sty of crude colors, with plenty of gilded gossamer rubbed into it, his thick and greasy brush [...] paints into the fresco of our spiritual bedlam\". Felix Aderca too campaigned for the novel and its \"pages of genius\". Another notable fan of the book was novelist and literary chronicler Mihail Sebastian, his \"Trăirist\" colleague, although he noted that Bonciu's text was not a fully formed novel. The same was concluded by Călinescu, who once described Bonciu the novelist as the author of \"prose poems\". Other critics tend to rate \"Bagaj...\" as a poorly finished work, insisting on its centrifugal narrative—one such conservative voice was that of Pompiliu Constantinescu, who still saluted Bonciu's decision to move into the genre of \"Surreal prose\", away from poetry. Some students of Bonciu's work disagree: according to Adriana Babeți, the \"disconcerting amalgam\" gives Bonciu his originality and strength.\n\nLater revealed as Bonciu's alter ego, the narrator of \"Bagaj...\" focuses his attention on the more peculiar protagonist, Ramses Ferdinand Sinidis. The plot is, in fact, a story within a story: Bonciu reads through Sinidis' \"black notebook\", left unopened after its author was murdered. The killer is a Man with Copper Beak (\"Omul cu ciocul de aramă\"), whose confession to Bonciu is also rendered as a detailed story. The murder was carried out for an absurd reason, and the Man with Copper Beak is haunted by the memory. He does not regret Sinidis' death, but consumed by another, unwitting, murder: his improvised weapon has also pierced through a malevolent dwarf who lived in Sinidis' body, and whom Sinidis despised.\n\nBeyond the pretext, the \"black notebook\" is an ample excursion into a sordid, self-destructive and peripheral environment, where real-life events merge with the purely fantastical. Vasilache sees in it a \"Wunderkammer\" comprising \"violent initiations into the brutal life of the senses, interrupted then and now by brief mortuary rituals\", while Alina Irimescu likens it to Edvard Munch's \"The Scream\", noting \"the realm of the undead is [Bonciu's] favorite topos.\" According to Glăvan, the plot is \"a trajectory of the ego's unraveling\", with \"a certified propensity toward the voluptuousness of self-annulment\", and an (anti-)\"Bildungsroman\". Sinidis depicts his cruel adolescence and Oedipus conflict, his erotic experiences with two partners (the virginal heartthrob Laura, and the submissive mistress on the side), the trauma of a participation in World War I, and a cynical case of bankruptcy. As a brief interlude in his self-destructive discourse, Sinidis makes eulogistic comments about a promised world revolution, about \"Bolshevik\" ethics and a universal language, but has to defend his ideas against the dwarf that lives inside him. The creature then forces his host into an unloving marriage with Zitta, and Ramses' murder occurs just as he decides to end it; he and his murderer then make their way into an infernal brothel. In the closing episode of \"Bagaj...\", Sinidis accepts his spiritual deconstruction, and looks to an eternity of degrading and bestial sexual acts with the \"sweet-fleshed\" prostitute Peppa.\n\nSindis' recurrent obsession is death, and he prophesies in detail about being an out-of-body witness to his funeral service and incineration, content that the flames would also consume his parasite. His tormented life is intertwined with those of desperate anti-heroes, including a gout-afflicted man who severs his own fingers, or a driller who was burned alive. When read as a camouflaged record of actual events in Bonciu's life, the novel reveals his claims about having been a witness to Vienna's artistic life under the Double Monarchy: Viennese writers such as Altenberg, Petzold, Wildgans, Peter Hille, Hugo von Hofmannsthal, Arthur Schnitzler, Stefan Zweig appear as characters, and Endre Ady is a literary prototype. In one section of the book, Ramses discovers the beautiful Hilda, who is a painter, a muse, and the living artwork of Egon Schiele, and who ends up being eaten alive by her creator; before this happens, Hilda, Schiele and Ramses become entangled in a sadomasochistic \"ménage à trois\".\n\nThe autofictional element in \"Bagaj...\" was highlighted by Romania's other literati, beginning with Anton Holban's review in \"Adevărul\". Holban gave praise to the work as a source of \"delight\", and first suggested that Bonciu belonged in the same category as Louis-Ferdinand Céline or Axel Munthe. The Céline comparison has endured as popular in Romanian literary theory: Glăvan finds that both Bonciu and Max Blecher, his more embittered generation colleague, are among the Romanian writers who found a model to follow in the \"Journey to the End of the Night\"; according to Pîrjol, Céline and Bonciu have a \"family resemblance\".\n\nThe main mix of influences, however, comes from the iconoclastic cultures of Secessionist Vienna and the Weimar Republic, with whom Bonciu was personally familiarized. Exegetes have identified in \"Bagaj...\" the echoes of writers translated by Bonciu (Altenberg, Petzold, Wildgans), but also from other such sources, including Hille. Furthermore, Crohmălniceanu sees the novel as incorporating elements from a literary branch of the \"New Objectivity\" movement: Klabund, but also Erich Kästner, as authors of \"atrocious, sarcastic, grotesque and brutal realism\". Glăvan too sees an analogy between Sinidis' grim reflection on war and landscapes by \"New Objectivity\" master Otto Dix. Others see the nightmarish protagonists as cultural echoes from the \"Bizarre Pages\" of Romanian absurdist author Urmuz.\n\nIn \"Pensiunea doamnei Pipersberg\", Bonciu preserves his narrator persona and revives Ramses Sinidis. The novel, variously read as a continuation or a prequel, opens with the meeting between Ramses and the storyteller; Sinidis has been afflicted by muteness, but, at the very time of this encounter, a bizarre accident forces his voice back. The two then proceed to reconstruct the missing portions of Sinidis' life, an intertextual exercise in which protagonist advises writer how to best perform his task. The background themes are despair and solitude: Ramses is on the search for someone to share his existential burden, and the narrative grows to include, according to Crohmălniceanu, an \"entire gallery of tormented yet hilarious faces\".\n\nThe plot is in large part focused on the eponymous \"boarding house\", in fact a brothel. There are three correspondents of the \"black notebook\", which obsess about the themes other than death: \"Book of the Flesh\", \"Book of the Wine\", \"Book of the Soul\". The sexual act is again depicted in key moments of the book, showing Sinidis' first sexual experience, with a laundress, or his later intercourse with \"a cow-woman\" (according to Simuț, these scenes are passionate but not in fact obscene). The needy Lenny Pipersberg and her daydreaming prostitutes reify the feeling of inadequacy—the girl Nora despises the natural green of her hair, and kills herself in desperation. According to Pîrjol, this is a book of \"quasi-theatrical melancholy\", alternating the \"cruel\" and the \"implausible-bucolic\", especially adept at describing \"abjection\". The novel, she notes, is antifeminist, showing women piled up in Sinidis' collection of escapades, \"as if in an insect box.\"\n\nAccording to researcher Alina Ianchiș, Bonciu's isolation and his lack of \"self-affirmation\" contributed to the ambiguous or dismissive assessments of his work by academic contemporaries. The writer only returned to critical attention in 1964, when Crohmălniceanu first lectured on him at the University of Bucharest. His versions of Baudelaire's poems were included in a luxury edition of \"Les Fleurs du mal\", put together by writer Geo Dumitrescu (\"Les Fleurs du mal. Florile răului\", Editura pentru literatură universală, 1968). The following period witnessed a drop in receptivity or, in Alina Irimescu's words, a \"historical void\". A reissue of his novels came only in 1984, care of Mircea Zaciu and Mioara Apolzan. This project suffered from the intervention of communist censors, and the parts considered scandalous or political were simply bracketed out in the final printed edition.\n\nIn the literary underground, Bonciu enjoyed some popularity among the \"Optzeciști\" writers—some of whom were disciples of Crohmălniceanu, trying to reconnect themselves with the 1930s avant-garde. Poet-novelist Mircea Cărtărescu became a noted supporter of Bonciu's reconsideration, and listed him among the direct precursors of Romania's postmodern literature. Published later in Cărtărescu's life, the \"Orbitor\" cycle is seen by Irimescu as evidence of Cărtărescu's debt to Bonciu and Blecher. Another member of the \"Optzeciști\" clubs, poet Florin Iaru, has also been described as one in succession to Bonciu, particularly in what concerns the Expressionist imagery of his poems. Sonia Larian, a more senior author (but one whose work was only published in the 1980s), is also seen as a disciple of Bonciu, for her scenes of Jewish life in Bucharest.\n\nBonciu's comeback took place only after the fall of communism in 1989. In subsequent years, his name was popularized by specialized dictionaries and encyclopedias, and in reinterpretative essays on literary history. In 2000, Aius Publishers in Craiova released a third, uncensored, edition of his two novels, but the circulation was exceedingly small. A year later, Bonciu failed to make the \"Observator Cultural\" \"best Romanian novels\" list, compiled from interviews with Romanian literary professionals. At the time, his absence was considered surprising by \"Observator Cultural\" editor Gheorghe Crăciun.\n\nIn 2005, the Writers' Union magazine \"România Literară\" published samples of Bonciu's poetry, within a special avant-garde issue. At the same time, Polirom publishing house issued both \"Bagaj...\" and \"Pensiunea\" as a single edition. It carries a preface by Babeți, and is a conscious attempt to reassess Bonciu as one of the major Romanian writers of his time. The reception was lukewarm and the iconoclastic intent criticized by other specialists. Ion Simuț notes that, unlike Blecher, \"H. Bonciu does not represent a real challenge to the consecrated hierarchy of interwar assets. From this side, there is no hope that one could modify the [literature] canon.\"\n\nIn the Bonciu chapter of his own companion to Romanian literature (published 2008), Nicolae Manolescu suggested that the author of \"Bagaj...\" was more gifted than consecrated novelists such as Gib Mihăescu. That pronouncement was questioned by Manolescu's younger colleague, Paul Cernat. During a far-reaching literary debate of late 2008, Cernat has also criticized those postmodern authors who, in his view, overrate H. Bonciu and Constantin Fântâneru to the detriment of interwar classics. Such conclusions were mirrored by other authors. As one of Bonciu's defenders, Irimescu sees him as one \"condemned to endure outside the literary canon\", who would not receive recognition \"either because of the times, or because of the people.\" Essayist Magda Ursache made particularly strong comments regarding perceived attempts at revising the canon \"with the help of a hammer\", to favor Bonciu and other avant-garde writers.\n\nThe revival of erotic prose in post-Revolution literature has also led reviewers to suggest that the \"generation 2000\" was, or could have been, influenced by \"Bagaj...\" or \"Pensiunea\". However, according to a 2010 article by Radu Cosașu, \"nobody today remembers Bonciu\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3923162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3923162", "title": "Habitability", "text": "Habitability\n\nHabitability is the conformance of a residence or abode to the implied warranty of habitability. A residence that complies is said to be habitable. It is an implied warranty or contract, meaning it does not have to be an express contract, covenant, or provision of a contract. There was no implied warranty of habitability for tenants at common law and the legal doctrine has since developed in many jurisdictions through housing laws and regulations.\nHabitability is synonymous with tenantability.\n\nIn order to be habitable, such housing usually:\n\nSome states, such as New York, have given additional statutory protections in addition to those created by caselaw. These statutes include:\n\nViolation of the warranty of habitability results in constructive eviction, whereby the landlord or lessor has, in effect, evicted the tenant or lessee. The tenant may remedy the problem, or complain to local government authorities for remedies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12248947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12248947", "title": "Hans Hagelstein", "text": "Hans Hagelstein\n\nHans Hagelstein is a Dutch business man and currently General Team Manager of Feyenoord Rotterdam. He was appointed in 1991 and has been at the club since. He is mainly responsible for the logistics, like transport, training facilities, hotel bookings and all other similar tasks. In 2006, he was contacted by Leo Beenhakker with whom he worked together at Feyenoord in the 1990s to become his team manager for Trinidad and Tobago during the 2006 FIFA World Cup. After Feyenoord agreed he signed a temporary contract with Trinidad to become their team manager during the World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "34760121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34760121", "title": "Harry McCann", "text": "Harry McCann\n\nHarrison King McCann (November 4, 1880 – December 20, 1962), was the founder of the H. K. McCann Company. H. K. McCann Company was an advertising agency that, as McCann Erickson, grew to become the world’s largest with a global network of offices in more than 130 countries, providing advertising campaigns for brands including Standard Oil (Esso, Exxon), Vaseline, Beech-Nut, Del Monte, Nabisco, Coca-Cola, General Motors, Martini, Gillette, L’Oréal, Bacardi, Nestlé and MasterCard.\n\nMcCann was born in Maine on November 4, 1880 to a New England family that had settled in New Hampshire in the seventeenth century.\nIn 1902 he graduated from Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine, where he had worked on the student newspaper and been leader of the mandolin club.\n\nDuring his high school and college years he worked for Hiram Ricker & Sons, hotel proprietors in Poland Spring, initially as a bellboy and later as salesman for Poland Spring water. This job took him to the Poland Springs New York office.\n\nOnce in New York, McCann switched jobs, joining the Amsterdam Advertising Agency as copywriter in 1903. In the same year he was offered a position by the New York Telephone Company, and put in charge of an experimental campaign to discover if advertising could prevent the company from losing customers to smaller competitors. By 1910, McCann was successfully running an in-house department of 100 staff.\n\nMcCann’s work for the New York Telephone Company attracted the attention of the Standard Oil Company, who recruited him to lead their in-house advertising department. When the US Government ordered the break-up of the Standard Oil Company on monopoly grounds, McCann formed his own agency with Canadian efficiency expert Herbert Newton Casson to provide ad continuity.\n\nThe H. K. McCann Company opened its doors on Broadway, New York in 1912, with Standard Oil as its first account. By its second year it was handling over $200,000 worth of business. A network of offices across North America quickly followed. In 1928, McCann opened its first European offices in Berlin, London and Paris. In 1930, McCann merged with Alfred Erickson’s agency to form McCann-Erickson.\n\nHarrison McCann died on December 20, 1962 in a car crash in Old Westbury, New York.\n\nWhile triskaidekaphobia – fear of the number 13 – is a common, if usually mild phobia in the US, McCann felt that it was his lucky number.\n\nHe had begun his job with the New York Telephone Company on October 13, 1910, he made the decision to form his own agency on November 13, 1911, and he went on to weave the number into the lore of the agency. He often shortened the company name to The H K McCann Co to have the right number of letters. The agency’s famous and still used credo \"Truth Well Told\" also contains 13 letters, and whenever his growing agency moved to new buildings, McCann would insist on a thirteenth floor office.\n\nWhen McCann-Erickson moved to the newly built 50 Rockefeller Plaza in 1939 he demanded a 13th floor, and placed his office on it. It remains the only building in the Rockefeller Center to have one.\n\nAs a distinguished Bowdoin College alumnus, Harrison King McCann is the namesake of a named professorial chair in the college's English department. Bowdoin professors endowed with this honor in more recent years include:\n\n[0] Herbert Newton Casson \"The Story of My Life\" 1931 Efficiency Magazine, London page 164-5\n\n"}
{"id": "37926891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37926891", "title": "HealthCap", "text": "HealthCap\n\nHealthCap is a specialized provider of venture capital within life sciences. HealthCap invests in innovative companies with focus on therapeutics. As of 2017, HealthCap has invested in over 100 companies since inception and completed initial public offerings of more than 40 companies. HealthCap has offices in Stockholm, Oslo and Lausanne.\nThe firm was founded in 1996 by Björn Odlander and Peder Fredrikson, and the first fund was started the same year. As of 2017, HealthCap has established seven funds and financed 106 companies, where 39 have been taken public on nine different markets. The most recent fund, HealthCap VII, was established in the fall of 2015.\nIn 2017, HealthCap had approximately 23 employees out of which ten are partners. The team combines venture capital investing experience with competencies and work experiences from small as well as large companies across the healthcare industry, spanning disciplines of scientific research, drug development, clinical practice, investment banking, and industry management.\nHealthCap has raised seven main funds. HealthCap IV-VII are Delaware Limited Partnerships with Swiss general partners. Investors in HealthCap funds include, among others, European Investment Fund, Skandia Life Insurance, the 4th and 6th Swedish National Pension Funds, The Kresge Foundation, Mayo Clinic, Northwestern University, University of Michigan, Vanderbilt University and Washington University. HealthCap has committed capital exceeding EUR 1 billion.\n\nHealthCap invests in companies developing disruptive technologies that hold the potential to change clinical practice. Over the years HealthCap has invested in more than 100 companies. The portfolio companies have developed more than 20 pharmaceutical products and over 40 med-tech products to the market. Many of these products, such as Firazyr®, Xofigo®, Tracleer®, are breakthrough therapies addressing life-threatening diseases. Examples of technologies financed by HealthCap are \n\n"}
{"id": "30020218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30020218", "title": "Herbert Spender-Clay", "text": "Herbert Spender-Clay\n\nCaptain Herbert Henry Spender-Clay, CMG (4 June 1875 — 15 February 1937) was an English soldier and Conservative Party politician. He sat in the House of Commons from 1910 to 1937.\n\nSpender-Clay was educated at Eton and Sandhurst, and on 10 June 1896 was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 2nd Life Guards. He was promoted to lieutenant on 20 April 1898, and served in the Second Boer War, during which he was further promoted to captain on 25 September 1901. Following his return from South Africa, he resigned his commission in early September 1902 to take up farming on his father's estate in Surrey, which he inherited.\n\nHe was elected at January 1910 general election as the Member of Parliament for the Tunbridge division of Kent. He was re-elected in December 1910, and when the division was abolished in boundary changes for the 1918 general election he was returned as a Coalition Conservative for the new Tonbridge division. He held that seat through a further six general elections until his death.\n\nIn April–May 1917 he was a member of the Balfour Mission, intended to promote cooperation between the US and UK during World War I.\n\nHe died on 15 February 1937 at his London home on Hyde Park Street (or at his Surrey home; sources differ), from pneumonia following influenza.\n\nHerbert Henry Spender-Clay was born on 4 June 1875, the only son of Joseph Spender-Clay and Sydney Garrett. He was a Godson of Rev John Harden Clay, the son of Herbert's great uncle Rev John Clay.\n\nAt the age of 29, he married on 29 October 1904, Pauline Astor, who was then 24. She was the elder daughter of William Waldorf Astor, 1st Viscount Astor and Mary Dahlgren Paul. Herbert and Pauline had three daughters:\n\n\nHerbert was Deputy Lieutenant and J.P. for Surrey, Member of Parliament for Tonbridge, and a Charity Commissioner. He was appointed to the Privy Council in 1929, and made CMG. They lived at Ford Manor, Lingfield, Sussex and also had a London house at 21 Hill Street. He died on 15 February 1937 at Dormansland at the age of 61.\n"}
{"id": "19152651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19152651", "title": "Hisham Talaat Moustafa", "text": "Hisham Talaat Moustafa\n\nHisham Talaat Moustafa () is an Egyptian businessman who had been elected in 2004 to the Shura Council in the Parliament of Egypt. As the former chairman and head of the Real Estate Branch of the Talaat Moustafa Group, his net worth was estimated at $800 million in 2007. He was arrested on September 2, 2008 and found guilty on May 21, 2009 for his involvement in the murder of Lebanese singer Suzanne Tamim, but his sentence to death by hanging was overturned on a legal technicality. Following a retrial in 2010, he was sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment. Moustafa was released after 9 years on June 23, 2017 after receiving a presidential pardon.\n\nBorn in the Egyptian city of Alexandria in 1959, Moustafa graduated in 1980 from the University of Alexandria's College of Commerce with an accounting degree. He is the youngest son of construction magnate Talaat Moustafa and is married with three children (in order of birth): Omar, Tarek, and Mohamed.\n\nOn September 2, 2008, Moustafa was charged in Cairo of arranging the murder of Lebanese singer Suzanne Tamim. Moustafa was stripped of his parliamentary immunity. Shares in Talaat Moustafa Group, one of Egypt's biggest real estate developers, fell sharply on the day of his arrest as reports of the indictment reached the stock market. The stock had declined over the summer as rumors of Moustafa's involvement in the murder swirled through Egypt. In November 2008, the presiding judge issued a gag order on the publication of case details other than procedural decisions and the final verdict.\n\nOn May 21, 2009, Moustafa was found guilty of involvement in the murder through \"incitement, agreement and assistance.\" On June 25, he was sentenced to death by hanging, along with former police officer Mohsen al-Sukkari, who was paid $2 million to carry out the hit. Egypt's Grand Mufti Sheikh Ali Goma'a upheld the verdict: \"The court found no reason to have mercy on the defendants and decided to execute them unanimously.\" An appeal was filed the day before the August 25 deadline.\n\nOn March 4, 2010, the Cassation Court of Egypt accepted an appeal for a new trial after concluding the original verdict had made mistakes of legal technicality. The defense argued that co-defendant Al-Sukkari was not properly represented during his first questioning. Prosecutor Moustafa Khater responded to the finding by stating that Al-Sukkari did not ask for a lawyer. The retrial began on April 26. On May 28, Tamim's family dropped its civil suit against Moustafa and denied that they were paid any money in return. Judge Mahmoud el Khodeiry, former deputy chief of Egypt's appeals court, said this would have no effect on the murder case. On September 25, prosecutors spent two hours delivering final retrial statements, arguing that they had evidence from 39 witnesses and mobile phone messages. Documents presented to the court included records of an attempt by Moustafa to freeze Tamim's bank account in Geneva. On September 28, 2010, the court re-sentenced Moustafa to a reduced penalty of 15 years' imprisonment. Political analysts were surprised that the judgment was issued before final statements were completed. Attorney Gamal Eid of the Arabic Network for Human Rights Information stated, \"They did not even bother to go through the motions to save face. I do not trust that the judiciary is independent, and every day there is new proof of this.\"\n\nIn August 2010, Egyptian police opened an investigation of allegations that Moustafa had beaten his brother-in-law Ihab Mohamed Madi during the first week of Ramadan. Madi claimed that the beating began after he tried to intervene in an argument between his wife Sahar and Moustafa. Sahar, who is also Moustafa's sister, has been noted as the only member of Moustafa's family to consistently attend his court hearings.\n\nIn June 2017, Moustafa was released after receiving a presidential pardon. His group had just bought 500 acres of land in Cairo's new capital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1871557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1871557", "title": "Joseph Martin (general)", "text": "Joseph Martin (general)\n\nJoseph Martin, Jr. (1740–1808) was a brigadier general in the Virginia militia during the American Revolutionary War, in which Martin's frontier diplomacy with the Cherokee people is credited with not only averting Indian attacks on the Scotch-Irish American and English American settlers who helped win the battles of Kings Mountain and Cowpens, but with also helping to keep the Indians' position neutral and from siding with the British troops during those crucial battles. Historians agree that the settlers' success at these two battles signaled the turning of the tide of the Revolutionary War—in favor of the Americans.\nMartin was born in Caroline County, Virginia, and later lived at Albemarle County and then at Henry County, Virginia, at his plantation, \"Belmont\", on Leatherwood Creek in Martinsville, not far from the plantation of his friend Governor Patrick Henry, \"Leatherwood Plantation\".\n\nGeneral Martin held many positions during his public life. As a very young man he first tried his hand at farming, next he worked for three years as an overseer on the huge plantation of his local Virginia kin, next he was a longhunter, and an explorer on the frontier for friend Patrick Henry, then an early pioneer and builder of Martin's Station in the \"wild west,\" a surveyor of the KY/NC and TN/VA borders, an Indian agent/Indian fighter for Patrick Henry, a member at peace treaties with the Indians, and along with Dr. Thomas Walker, Joseph Martin named the Cumberland region and the Cumberland River, he served as a member of the legislatures of Virginia, Georgia, and North Carolina, he was lifelong friends with Gen. Thomas Sumter, he was also friends and brothers-in-law with Col. Benjamin Cleveland (both married Graves sisters), he was unsuccessfully nominated by Patrick Henry to the position of the first governor of the Southwest Territory, was the holder of some 80,000 acres across the Southeastern U.S. at one point. The city of Martinsville, Virginia, was named in his honor during his lifetime.\n\nThe son of planter Capt. Joseph Martin Sr. and his wife Susannah Chiles, great-granddaughter of Colonel John Page, Joseph Martin Jr. was raised in a Virginia gentry family in Caroline and Albemarle Counties. His father, Joseph Martin Sr., was the son of wealthy British merchant William Martin in Bristol, England, who sent his son to Virginia as supercargo aboard his ship the \"Brice\". Martin Sr. wrote to his English father that he planned to marry the daughter of a common Virginia colonist. Even though she was from the Chiles family and was a descendant of Virginia's Col. John Page, to Martin's wealthy father back in England all American colonists were inferior to the English. William Martin of Bristol was himself Lord Mayor of Bristol and owner of a ship building company, a glass manufacturing plant, importer and exporter with the new world; including tobacco. The father wrote back disinheriting young Joseph Martin Sr., who never returned to England.\n\nJoseph Martin Sr. was \"a perfect Englishman\", recalled his grandson later, \"large and athletic; bold, daring, self-willed and supercilious. And in him was depicted, as my father has told me, the most complete form of the aristocracy of the British government.\" Capt. Martin arrived in Albemarle County in 1745, one of the original patentees. Joseph Martin Sr. left some 300 acres of his landholdings to son Joseph Jr. at his death in 1762. Nearby neighbors Dr. Thomas Walker, Peter Jefferson, James Madison, and the Lewis and Clark clans and kin including Lewis, Carr, Waller, Dabney, Hammock, Hughes, etc.\n\nBut Joseph Martin Jr., the son of the English immigrant, was not cut out for a Virginia gentry planter's life. \"Gambling was a favorite pastime.\" Martin's son, Revolutionary War officer Col. William Martin, in his accounts of his father's life in the, \"Lyman Draper Manuscript Collection,\" writes that although his father gambled, he was not much of a drinker and let his son in on his secret; Martin sometimes pretended to over-drink so he might appear to be drunk in order that fellow gamblers would let down their guard. As a youth, Joseph Martin ran off from an apprenticeship during the French and Indian War of 1756, and joined the army at Fort Pitt, where he served alongside another Virginia youth, Thomas Sumter. Following his early army service, Martin lit out for the rigors of the frontier, where he dressed in buckskin and was an early real estate speculator, trapper and fur trader and Indian fighter.\nBut this time on the frontier was after Martin had bought a large plot of land in Henry County with his earnings working for three years as an overseer for an uncle. Martin also gained 20,000 acres of land from Patrick Henry in a surveying contest at Powell Valley. Martin's youthful adventures on the frontier were grist for later stories... some of which were written by Martin's political foes and were slanted to paint a picture of him in an unkind light. One writer, a fan of Martin's political enemy, called him lazy and refused to describe him by his military ranking. General Joseph Martin may have been many things in his lifetime, but a quick study of his history and his accomplishments show that he was far from lazy. Eventually the soldiering, trapping and Indian fighting transformed the young Martin into a fearsome explorer.\n\nAmong Martin's earliest excursions on the frontier was one made on behalf of family friend Dr. Thomas Walker. Martin's son, Revolutionary War officer Col. William Martin, describes the naming of the area and the river in a letter to historian Lyman Draper, \"A treaty with the Cherokees was held at Fort Chiswell, Virginia on New River, then a frontier. On the return of the chiefs home, Dr.[Thomas] Walker, a gentleman of distinction, and my father, [General] Joseph Martin, accompanied them. The Indians being guides, they passed through the place now called Cumberland Gap, where they discovered a fine spring. They still had a little rum remaining, and they drank to the health of the Duke of Cumberland. This gave rise to the name of Cumberland Mountain and Cumberland River.\"\n\nIn 1769, Martin journeyed to Powell's Valley to attempt a settlement, a full ahead of any previous settlement. Martin and his party – which included his brother Brice and Mordecai Hord – had hoped to secure the granted to Dr. Walker and themselves. Martin's Creek in the region where Joseph Martin attempted his settlement is today named for him. (Martin's Station, as the settlement was known, became a well-known stopover for westward-bound settlers for many years.) The settlement ultimately failed, which some historians have blamed on the inability of the Loyal Company to defend its title to the tract.\n\nBut in the foray to Powell's Valley, Martin had established his credentials as a hard-bitten explorer. Daniel Boone and his party of explorers were stunned in 1769 when, upon their arrival in Powell's Valley, they discovered that Martin and his 20-man party had beaten them there. It was beyond the farthest reaches that Boone and his long hunters had explored. Following Martin's feat, the Albemarle County native became a force to be reckoned with in exploration circles, even though Martin's settlement was soon broken up by the Cherokees, who pushed back against the westernmost settlement yet attempted.\n\nBy 1775, when North Carolina merchant Richard Henderson purchased an immense tract of land from the Cherokees to found the short-lived Transylvania colony, in what is today Kentucky, Henderson turned to Martin as his agent in Powell's Valley. It was one of several such roles that the explorer, accustomed to trapping, longhunting and traveling in the Appalachian wilderness inhabited by the Cherokee, would hold over the years.\n\nMartin's Station stood along the Wilderness Trail near Rose Hill, Virginia. The first fort was built in 1769, but Martin's party were attacked by the local Native Americans. He returned a few years later in 1775 and built a new \"Martin's station\". Again he was attacked by the Indians and had to leave. Moving closer to the Cumberland Gap, he built another new \"Martin's Station\", his third, in 1783. The small fort provided protection plus supplies for hunters and immigrant families moving into Kentucky. He was able to finally sell his fort and lands in Powell County, Kentucky in 1788, and moved back to the town in Henry County, Virginia, that would soon be re-named in his honor: Martinsville.\n\nA \"fourth\" Martin's station was recently constructed at the Wilderness Road State Park. \"Builders of the hand hewn log replica, constructed in 2002, used only the kinds of tools that Martin would have used in the wild frontier in the later 1700s. Workers carted logs into the construction site with oxen and then used ropes and horses to set those logs in place. At times, reenactors came on the scene and made the construction yet authentic by staging spontaneous Indian attacks.\"\n\n\"Martin was a robust figure in the history of the early frontier,\" according to the WPA guide to the Old Dominion. \"He was born in Albemarle County in 1740, ran away to fight Indians at 17, became an Indian agent, land agent, and officer of militia, fighting Indians all up and down the frontier. In 1774 he came to Henry County, established himself at Belle Monte on Leatherwood Creek, for nine years sat for his district in the general assembly, and in 1793 was made a brigadier general of state militia. He was a brawny, picturesque man, more than six feet tall and the father of 18 children; wore buckled knee breeches and a great beard, braided and thrust inside his shirt.\"\n\nMartin first married Sarah Lucas in Orange County, Virginia. After her death in Henry County, Martin married Susannah\nGraves, a descendant of Captain Thomas Graves. Susannah Graves, of Spotsylvania County, Virginia, the wife of Joseph Martin, and her second cousin Mary Graves, who was married to Benjamin Cleveland, Susannah Graves was the daughter of William Graves and Mary unk, Mary was the daughter of Joseph Graves and Sarah Bunyard. Both are direct descendants of Thomas Graves and Anna Davenport, common ancestor, is Capt. Thomas Graves. [Ref; Wills of Joseph Graves and Thomas Graves]. \nWhile married to Sarah Lucas and then to Susannah Graves, Martin was simultaneously married to his half-Cherokee wife, Elizabeth Ward, the daughter of Nancy Ward, a power within the Cherokee tribes, and her husband, English trapper Bryan Ward. The polygamous relationship, justified by Martin as common practice among frontiersmen operating among the tribes, caused considerable consternation to General Martin's son, Col. William Martin. Joseph Martin and Betsy Ward had two children. (Joseph Martin's son by his Cherokee wife was educated in Virginia schools, but afterwards elected to return to the Cherokee.)\n\nOn November 3, 1777, Martin was commissioned by Governor Patrick Henry as Agent and Superintendent for Indian Affairs for the State of Virginia. (Martin served in the same capacity with the state of North Carolina from 1783 to 1789.) Gov. Henry instructed Martin that he was \"to reside at some place in that Nation in order to negotiate and direct all things relating to the Commonwealth and which concern the interest thereof, using your best endeavors from time to time to preserve peace with that Nation and to cultivate their present good Disposition.\" It was an appointment Martin would continue to hold until 1789.\n\nDuring his time on the frontier, Martin became acquainted at an early age with two other Revolutionary War patriots and frontiersmen: Benjamin Cleveland, who was his brother-in-law, [They were not related, just lifetime friends. Susannah Graves, the wife of Joseph Martin and Mary Graves the wife of Benjamin Cleveland were second cousins, common ancestor Capt. Thomas Graves. <\\ref> Wills of Joseph Graves, Thomas Graves and Benjamin Graves.Grace S. Green] Cleveland having married the sister of Susannah Graves; and Thomas Sumter, who had been a companion of Martin's during his early adventures on the frontier. Both men were fellow Virginia natives who struck out for the wilds, and both were ardent patriots.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War it was the efforts of Joseph Martin (then a Major) that helped prevent the Overhill Cherokee from launching widespread attacks on American colonists, which Loyalist agents had attempted to incite. Following the British capture of Savannah and Augusta, Georgia in 1778–1779, English goods made their way to the Cherokee on the Savannah River, prompting some tribesmen to rejoin the English cause.\n\nMartin's diplomacy with the Cherokees in 1780–81, wrote the American Historical Association, enabled the Continental Army to achieve victory over the English at the Battle of Kings Mountain, thus hastening the end of the conflict. On the eve of the Battle of Guilford Court House, in February 1781, General Nathanael Greene wrote Martin and seven other officers – including John Sevier, Arthur Campbell, and William Christian – appointing them agents to treat with the Cherokees and Chicasaws \"to afford the Said Tribes of Indians every mark of our good disposition towards them.\" Foremost in Greene's thinking, apparently, was keeping the Indians on the sidelines as the Continental Army and its militia forces fought the British in the last days of the war. Greene was probably mindful of previous British attempts at sending large quantities of ammunition, weapons, horses, cash and goods to their Indian allies through their Florida redoubts.\n\nAt the same time – and complicating Martin's legacy – Martin and his sons were prime movers behind the settlement of Tennessee by removing obdurate Cherokees from the territory.\n\nBy the end of the Revolution, Martin's place as chief colonial Indian agent seemed secure. In January 1780, Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson directed Martin to negotiate with the Cherokees to secure land around a new fort being overseen by General George Rogers Clark at the mouth of the Ohio River (Fort Jefferson). In the fall of 1783, the State of Virginia built a new fort at the Cumberland Gap, replacing an older fort which was adjudged to lie within the boundaries of North Carolina. The new Virginia fort was designed as the primary residence for Martin while he was in the region on official business. And in 1784, Thomas Jefferson directed Martin to use his connections with the Cherokees to negotiate for more land between the Carolinas and the Mississippi to establish American sovereignty over the region.\n\nLater, in a twist overlooked by most historians, Martin corresponded with Alexander McGillivray, the leader of the Creek Indians, who had Loyalist sentiments. In 1788 a letter from Martin to McGillivray was intercepted in which Martin professed to be interested in settling abroad. When the letter was discovered, the North Carolina General Assembly launched an investigation into Martin's conduct. But he was later exonerated when it turned out that he was acting as a spy on Patrick Henry's instructions to ferret out the nature of McGillivray's ties to the Spanish, who were then active in Florida.\n\n\"General Martin's conduct so far as I could discern in that affair was really praise-worthy,\" Henry wrote to United States Senator from Virginia Richard Henry Lee. \"He [Martin] frequently gave me Intelligence of Creek Indian affairs, and of the intercourse between other Indians and the Spaniards that was interesting.\n\nGeneral Martin and Governor Patrick Henry kept a long-running correspondence through the years, some of which concerned real estate speculation. Other letters recounted Martin's dealings with the Indian tribes, as well as settlement efforts in Tennessee. As late as 1790, Patrick Henry wrote Joseph Martin concerning a real estate investment, holding out that the hope, Henry noted, that Martin might finally capitalize on his long service to Virginia. \"After all the Hazards you have run,\" Henry wrote, \"that you have not acquired so much property as many others would have done in your situation, I was desirous to throw something in your way by which some fine lands would have been offered to you in our purchase.\" \n\nUltimately, General Martin lost his appointment as chief Indian agent. Martin's \"manner of treating with the Indians necessarily prevented his appointment,\" Senator Richard Henry Lee informed Patrick Henry in September 1789. \"At present no such office as a standing Indian agent is appointed. The Government of the Western Territory is charged with such affairs.\"\n\nIn some quarters Martin was seen as too lenient with the Indians, especially after an incident in 1786 when several young Cherokee warriors were said to have murdered two white settlers near Clinch Mountain. The killings set off calls for retribution within the secessionist State of Franklin, and Martin found himself trying to mediate the dispute, and calm the settlers, while trying to prevent the angry Cherokees from joining with the Creeks. Martin did little to disguise his contempt for the authorities of the State of Franklin, who, Martin wrote Henry, \"immediately marched into the above mentioned Town, where they killed one Young [Indian] woman, and Shot Several others.\"\n\nBut Martin himself had not hesitated to wield military power against the Cherokees, especially when they killed several colonists at the instigation of Loyalist and English agents during the Revolution. In 1781, following a running battle between Indian forces and those of the colonists, Colonel Arthur Campbell, Lieutenant Colonel John Sevier and Martin addressed a letter to the Indian chiefs, warning them about their actions. \"You know you began the war,\" the bulletin began, \"by listening to the bad councils of the King of England and the falsehoods told you by his agents.\" Further hostilities, the three colonial leaders warned, would result in a military campaign against the Indian villages. Seven years later, in 1788, Martin again fought the Overmountain Cherokee, as well as the Chickamauga Cherokee, in a battle at Lookout Mountain, during the Cherokee–American wars.\n\nBut having eventually struck a hard-won peace with the tribes, Martin bridled at the actions of the State of Franklin. Henry empathized with Martin, writing the General in May 1785 that \"the disorderly behavior of the Franklin people, as they call themselves, gives me concern. If they will not be subservient to the Rules and Regulations respecting Indian affairs, which prevail in all the States, they must expect none of the advantages of the Union.\"\n\n\"Partisans of the State in N[orth] Carolina afterwards found him obnoxious to their views,\" former Governor Henry wrote Virginia Senator William Grayson in urging Martin's reappointment in 1789, \"and as I believe often endangered his Life For his duty called him to discourage their Disorderly conduct [and] thwart their favorite Schemes.\" Henry then commended Martin for his efforts to impose restraints upon the actions of the State of Franklin settlers, whose \"frequent Butcherys of Indians & Refinement in cruelty sufficiently characterize these people who are Mr Martins decided Foes.\"\nMartin's attempts to restrain the State of Franklin settlers from a more-belligerent course made Martin unacceptable in some quarters, where he was seen as too 'soft' on the tribesmen. Martin also became controversial in some quarters are the Treaty of Hopewell in 1785, when Martin, Andrew Pickens and Benjamin Hawkins, acting as government agents, concluded treaties with the Cherokees and the Choctaws. The Cherokee treaty particularly engendered later enmity from the Indian signatories, as well as the colonial state governments. The Indians saw the treaty as a thinly-veiled land grab, and the state governments saw the treaty as an attempt to encroach on local government authority, and attempts were made in Congress to void it. \"No action of Martin's life brought down on him more condemnation than this [the Hopewell Treaty],\" wrote historian Stephen B. Weeks of the incident.\n\nConsequently, his appointment as agent was not renewed, despite Henry's repeated entreaties to political allies for Martin's reinstatement. (In a 1789 letter to Senator William Grayson, Henry reminded his political ally that Martin had been so effective in his Indian dealings during the Revolutionary War that British agents had offered rewards to their Indian allies for Martin's scalp.)\n\nBut the forces allied against Martin overwhelmed Henry's defense, and in 1789, his career as Indian agent finished, General Martin sold his large holdings in the Powell's Valley and near Cumberland Gap and returned to his lands in Henry County next door to Henry's to spend the rest of his life. A year later, in 1790, when the governorship of the Southwest Territory opened up, Patrick Henry suggested Gen. Martin, along with George Mason, for the job, but both were passed over in favor of William Blount.\nLater Judgments on Martin's career as an Indian agent have been mixed. Writing in 1894, Theodore Roosevelt called Martin \"a firm friend of the red race, [who] had earnestly striven to secure justice for them.\"\n\nIn his peripatetic life on the frontier, Martin was called upon to serve in the legislatures of several states. He served as a member of the North Carolina Convention called to approve the United States Constitution, and served several times in the North Carolina General Assembly. Martin was subsequently elected to the Virginia House of Delegates, until he finally chose to retire because of advanced age. (In 1787 the North Carolina assembly chose Martin as Brigadier General of the Washington District.) During his time in the Virginia legislature, Martin was one of the primary supporters of James Madison's Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions. During his military service in Georgia, Martin was elected to the Georgia legislature in 1783.\n\nMartin was also initially a member of the Watauga Association, which supported the founding of the State of Franklin. Martin subsequently resigned his membership when he saw that it might compromise his role as Indian agent.\n\nIn 1799, Martin and his old friend Major John Redd of Henry County served as the two county representatives on the Virginia commission relating to the Alien and Sedition Acts.\n\nGen. Joseph Martin, Jr.'s first wife was Sarah Lucas. They were both born in Virginia and together had five children, including Revolutionary War officer, Col. William L. Martin, who eventually moved to Smith County, in Middle Tennessee. \n\nAfter Sarah Lucas Martin's death, Joseph Martin, Jr. married Susannah Graves in Henry County, Virginia. They had 12 children, all of whom were born in Virginia, including: Col. Joseph Martin of Henry County, Va. He was one of five of Gen. Martin's sons who served in the War of 1812.\n\nAnother Martin son, and veteran of the War of 1812, was Patrick Henry Martin. He was a young, trained lawyer, and died a bachelor on his trip home after the war. He was named in honor of Gen. Martin's friend and neighbor, Governor Patrick Henry. Gen. Martin's son, Capt. Lewis Graves Martin, also a veteran of the War of 1812, moved from Henry County, Virginia to Rutherford/Cannon County in Middle Tennessee, in 1816, where he married Belinda Rucker (daughter of Gideon Rucker, Sr. & Joyce Reade; both of whom were born in Va. and moved to Middle Tennessee). They had a large family before Belinda's death in the late 1830s. Capt. Lewis G. Martin remarried and removed to Missouri in 1840. Another Martin son, and veteran of the War of 1812, was Thomas Martin. He also moved to Middle Tennessee where he married Georgia Carr (daughter of Dabney Carr). Alexander Martin, another son and veteran of the War of 1812, also moved to Middle Tennessee. He married Elizabeth Carr (daughter of John Fyndall Carr, also a Tennessean from Virginia), and after some years, moved to Missouri. Another son of Gen. Martin and Susannah Graves was Esq. Judge John C. Martin, who also moved to Middle Tennessee in the days following the War of 1812, where he became a judge and chairman of the Cannon County courts, and served five terms as county executive. He was also responsible for the construction of the original Cannon County court house, erected in 1830. He married Sophia Rucker, sister to his brother Lewis' wife, Belinda.\n\nOther children of Gen. Martin include: Martha Martin Cleveland, Elizabeth Martin Waller (1768 - 1805), Brice Martin (1770 - 1856), Jesse Martin (1786 - 1836), and Susan Martin King (1799 - 1867). \n\nGen. Martin also had two children with his half-Cherokee, common law wife (\"frontier wife\"), Elizabeth Ward, daughter of frontiersman Bryant Ward and his wife Nancy, \"the beloved woman of the Cherokee.\" One of their children may have been Nancy Martin Hildebrand (1778 - 1837).\n\nThe Native Indian connection of two members of the Martin family has created some confusion for some Martin genealogy researchers; Gen. Joseph Martin's brother, Capt. John \"Jack\" Calvin Martin, Sr., of his N.C. Rock House Plantation, a.k.a. Rock Castle Plantation, is often confused with his brother Gen. Joseph Martin. Capt. John \"Jack\" Martin, Sr. moved from Virginia to N.C. with his brother William Martin, Sr.. In N.C. Capt. John \"Jack\" Martin, Sr. married a Miss Emory, who was half Native American. She died early in their marriage. Her widower, \"Jack,\" then married her sister, a second Miss Emory. This same Capt. John \"Jack\" Martin, Sr. and his Emory wife were the parents of a John Calvin Martin, Jr. who served as a judge on the supreme court of the Cherokee Nation in Oklahoma, although he was only 1/4 Cherokee. This Oklahoma judge was the older cousin of the Tennessee judge of the same name; the son of Gen. Joseph Martin and wife Susannah Graves, as mentioned earlier; Esq. Judge, John C. Martin of Tennessee. There were two Martin cousins with the same name who both served as judges. Although they were born many miles and many years apart, their identities are sometimes confused by modern researchers looking at the names alone.\n\nAnother brother of Gen. Joseph Martin, William Martin, Sr., was the father of Gen. William \"Buck\" Martin, Jr., who served in the War of 1812 on Andrew Jackson's staff.\n\nGen. Martin, after helping adjudicate the western boundary line between North Carolina, Kentucky, and Virginia as far as the Cumberland Mountains, retired to his plantation \"Belmont\" on Leatherwood Creek, which he had purchased in 1796 from Benjamin Harrison V of Berkeley Plantation, which was originally built by a Capt. John Martin who was possibly the great-uncle of General Joseph Martin. General Joseph Martin died at his plantation on December 18, 1808, and was buried there in the family cemetery. Buried in the family graveyard are three other Joseph Martins: Colonel Joseph Martin, son of the general, his son Joseph, and his grandson Joseph, who lived at \"Greenwood\" plantation.\n\nInitially known as Henry Courthouse, the town of Martinsville, Virginia, was later renamed in honor of this early soldier, planter, pioneer, and real estate speculator. For many years afterwards, General Martin remained an obscure figure, until Lyman Draper began collecting reminiscences about him, including those of Major John Redd, a prominent Henry County planter who served under Martin, and who also wrote about his early recollections of General Nathanael Greene, George Rogers Clark, Daniel Boone, Col. Benjamin Cleveland, Dr. John Walker, and other early prominent Virginia figures.\n\nMartin's descendants include his eldest son Col. William Martin, Tennessee pioneer, and member of the South Carolina and Georgia legislatures; son Col. Joseph Martin, member of the Virginia House of Delegates, the Virginia State Senate and the Virginia Constitutional Convention 1829–1830; daughter Martha Martin, who was the 1st wife of William Cleveland, son of John (Preacher John) Cleveland, Jr., brother of Benjamin Cleveland, hero of the Battle of King's Mountain; William Cleveland was a nephew of Benjamin Cleveland; son Major Brice Martin, Tennessee pioneer and surveyor in 1801 of the disputed boundary between Virginia and Tennessee;. Other descendants: Dr. Jesse Martin Shackelford, founder of Martinsville's Shackelford Hospital, later Martinsville Memorial; Judge Nicholas H. Hairston of Roanoke.; United States Senator from Virginia Thomas Staples Martin from Charlottesville, Virginia.; Judge John Dillard of the North Carolina Supreme Court; American theologian and Biblical Greek scholar Archibald Thomas Robertson.; Alabama Governors Joshua L. Martin, Gabriel Moore, John A. Winston, and Charles Henderson; as well as Alfred M. Scales, Confederate General in the Civil War, and subsequently Governor of North Carolina. Also descended from Martin was Henry Smith Pritchett, an educator born in Missouri who served as president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Rod D. Martin, former PayPal executive, former President of the National Federation of Republican Assemblies, technology entrepreneur and author.\n\nGeneral Joseph Martin, Jr. owned a slave named 'Toby' from the time Toby was about 25 years old, and in his letters to historian Lyman Draper, Martin's son Col. William Martin told Draper that Toby, \"a bright mulatto, a little under middle stature, of great physical powers, as well as mental\" had served his father for many years and had distinguished himself in several battles. It was General Martin's intention, noted his son, that Toby be freed at Joseph Martin's death, but the General died intestate.\n\nTaking note of the General's affection for his longtime servant, as well as the Martin's family members' sentiments toward Martin's constant companion, the family elected \"by mutual consent\" to leave Toby out of the inventory of General Martin's estate, and Toby \"has ever since been free, and has made himself a good estate.\" In his letter to Draper, Col. William Martin calls the freed slave \"my fine old brother Toby.\"\n\nOn June 27–29, 2008, 200 descendants of General Joseph Martin gathered in the city named for him to unveil a monument in his honor, at the Gen. Joseph Martin, Jr. Bicentennial Celebration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26655745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26655745", "title": "Journal of Business Ethics Education", "text": "Journal of Business Ethics Education\n\nThe Journal of Business Ethics Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal that examines the particular challenges facing business ethics educators. It publishes articles, case studies, and reviews intended to help instructors do a better job in the classroom. Established in 2004, the journal is edited by John Hooker at Carnegie Mellon University, and published by NeilsonJournals Publishing in print and electronic formats. The journal is also available online from the Philosophy Documentation Center.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2305017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305017", "title": "Kering", "text": "Kering\n\nKering S.A. () is an international luxury group based in Paris, France. It owns luxury goods brands, including Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent, Balenciaga, Alexander McQueen, Bottega Veneta, Boucheron and Brioni, Pomellato.\n\nThe company was founded in 1963. It was known as Pinault S.A. until 1994, as Pinault-Printemps-Redoute from 1994 to 2005, as PPR from 2005 to 2013, and became Kering in 2013. It has been quoted on Euronext Paris since 1988 and has been a constituent of the CAC 40 index since 1995. The company has been headed by François-Henri Pinault since 2005.\n\nIn 1963, with a loan from his family and a bank, François Pinault opened the \"Établissements Pinault\" in Brittany (France) and specialized in timber trading. The company grew organically and through successful acquisitions. In 1988, Pinault S.A. was listed on the Paris Stock Exchange, multiplying the group’s financial power.\n\nIn 1989, it purchased 20% of CFAO, a French distribution conglomerate active throughout Africa. In 1990, Pinault S.A. and CFAO merged, and François Pinault became head of the newly formed group. This accelerated its acquisitions in the retail sector: Conforama (French furniture retailer) in 1991, Printemps (department stores in Paris) in 1992, which also owned 54% of La Redoute (French mail-order shopping retailer), and Fnac (French bookstore, multimedia and electronics retailer) in 1994. To align the group’s identity with its new activities, it was renamed Pinault-Printemps-Redoute (PPR) in 1994.\n\nIn 1999, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute purchased a controlling 42% stake of the Gucci group for $3 billion. Through the Gucci deal, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute also acquired the brand Yves Saint Laurent. It confirmed this new strategy with its following acquisitions, which included the French high-jewelry house Boucheron (2000), the Italian leather goods maker Bottega Veneta, and the fashion house Balenciaga (2001). In 2001, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute also signed strategic partnerships with ex-Givenchy fashion designer Alexander McQueen and with Stella McCartney.\n\nWith a new strategy for the group, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute offloaded its assets in the retail sector one after the other: Pinault Bois et Matériaux, upon which the whole group developed and grew, was acquired in 2003 by the British group Wolseley.\n\nIn 2003, François Pinault handed over the helm of Artémis, the family holding company that controlled Pinault-Printemps-Redoute and other assets (Château Latour, Christie’s, etc.), to his son François-Henri. In 2004, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute acquired almost all of the remaining shares of the Gucci group to reach a 99.4% ownership of the Italian luxury company. In 2005, François-Henri Pinault chose a hands-on approach to managing Pinault-Printemps-Redoute and decided to take over the position of CEO. The group officially changed its name to PPR.\n\nThe divestment of the group’s retail assets continued: Le Printemps (2006), Conforama (2011), CFAO and Fnac (2012), and La Redoute (2013). In the meantime, PPR acquired the Sowind Group (owner of Swiss high-end watchmaker Girard-Perregaux) and the Italian bespoke tailor Brioni (2011), the Italian group Pomellato (Pomellato and Dodo jewelry brands), the Chinese jeweler Qeelin (2012), the fashion designer Christopher Kane, and luxury watch manufacturer Ulysse Nardin (2014).\n\nPPR also developed a Sport & Lifestyle portfolio with the acquisition of Puma in 2007, Cobra Golf in 2010, and Volcom in 2011.\n\nOn March 22, 2013, PPR changed its name to Kering in order to fully achieve the group’s shift towards luxury goods. Pronounced , to sound like the English word \"caring\", the new name is a reference to the Pinault family’s region of origin, Brittany, where \"kêr\" means \"home\". The new logo has an owl as its emblem, a bird that can rotate its head 270 degrees, giving it extraordinary vision, and François Pinault’s favorite animal.\n\nIn December 2014, Alessandro Michele, an unknown accessories designer, was named creative director of Gucci, and quickly revitalized the brand’s creativity, fashion relevance, and profitability. From 2014 to 2017, Gucci's sales doubled from 3,497.2 million euros to 6,211.2 million euros.\n\nIn 2015, following Hedi Slimane’s four-year success at the creative helm of Yves Saint Laurent, Kering named a new creative director, Anthony Vaccarello, to pursue the evolution of the brand while maintaining its growth pace. In October 2015, Kering named Georgian-born designer Demna Gvasalia as creative director of Balenciaga.\n\nIn March 2018, Kering announced it has agreed to sell its shares of Stella McCartney to its eponymous owner. In April 2018, Kering announced its intention to sell the sportswear company Volcom. In May 2018, Kering also offloaded its shares of Puma, retaining a minor 15.7%, thus becoming a pure player in luxury.\n\nKering is an international luxury goods group based in Paris, France. Its portfolio includes brands specialized in the design, the making and the sale of fine products, especially in the leather-goods, shoes, ready-to-wear, watches and jewelry sectors:\n\nIn April 2012, Kering committed to a 4-year plan aiming to significantly reducing its impact on the environment. The group defined a set of quantifiable targets covering both environmental and social issues, and developed the Environmental Profit & Loss account (E P&L) to measure its progress. After publishing its 2016 sustainability report, Kering announced its new sustainability program, targeting a 40% reduction of its global environmental impact by 2025, a strategy aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nIn September 2013, Kering became part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices world and Europe, and was recognized as an industry leader in 2014 and 2015. In January 2018, during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Kering was named top sustainable textile, apparel and luxury goods corporation in the Corporate Knights Global 100 index. In February 2018, in partnership with the London College of Fashion, Kering launched the first online class (Mooc) in fashion and sustainability. In October 2018, Kering started to implement the use of the first 100% traceable organic cotton.\n\nThe Kering Foundation is committed to defending women’s dignity and rights by combating violence against women and promoting women’s empowerment. Since 2009, the Foundation initiated 47 partnerships with NGOs and supported many social projects oriented towards women’s rights.\n\nMany brands have their own philanthropic projects with the support of the Kering Foundation. Gucci launched its project \"Chime for Change\", an international campaign to raise funds for women’s emancipation, focusing on education, health and justice.\n\nEvery year since 2012, the Kering Foundation has contributed to the \"International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women\" with the \"White Ribbon for Women\" campaign.\n\nIn 2015, Kering became an official partner of the Cannes Film Festival and launched \"Women in Motion\" to highlight the contribution of women to the film industry, both in front of and behind the camera. The program is based on talks where personalities share their recommendations for the advancement of women’s representation in the industry. The Women in Motion Awards have been awarded annually to an inspirational figure who embodies the role of women in the film industry, and another to a promising name in cinema. Past winners include:\n\nIn 2018 a network of international journalists, the European Investigative Collaborations (EIC), received leaked documents that provide insight into Kerings tax evasion strategies. The CEO of Gucci, Marco Bizzarri, by contract received a net salary of 8 million Euros. To pay as little tax as possible for this salary a special strategy was formed by Kering. That included a residence in Switzerland and two contracts for Bizzarri, one in Italy and one in Luxemburg. The salary was then paid by a shell corporation in Luxemburg. Using this strategy € 9,49 million gross gained Bizzarri € 8,04 net income. In a statement Kering said that it's methods were within given laws.\n\nIn November 2017 Italian authorities opened a criminal investigation into a tax case involving Kering and its flagship brand Gucci. The inquiry included a raid on Gucci offices in Florence and Milan. The authorities were looking into whether Gucci should have paid as much as 1.3 billion Euro in past domestic taxes.\n\nIncluding France and UK, the amount of possible tax evasion by Kering is considered to be up to 2.5 billion Euros.\n\n\n\n\nIn September 2018, Kering joined the STOXX Europe 50 index. In November 2018, the group announced the share repurchase of 1% of its share capital.\n\n"}
{"id": "9798486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9798486", "title": "Lee Yun-yeol", "text": "Lee Yun-yeol\n\nLee Yun-yeol (; born 20 November 1984), better known as NaDa, is a South Korean professional gamer who competitively played \"StarCraft II\" and before that, \"\". He is known for being one of the most accomplished \"Brood War\" players of all time with a total of six major title victories, including three KPGA tours in a row in 2002 and subsequently winning three OnGameNet StarLeagues over the following years, earning him the nickname, \"Genius Terran\". He achieved the highest KeSPA score of any player before it was re-scaled, and holds the record for longest stay in KeSPA's top 30 at 87 months, beginning in March 2002 and ending in May 2009. He has played for several top-ranking teams, including Pantech EX, Toona S.G., KT_MagicNs, Ideal Space and WeMade FOX. After his transition to \"StarCraft II\" in 2010, he joined the Korean team of Old Generations. In February 2012, he joined the American multi-gaming team, compLexity gaming.\n\nOn June 19, 2012, compLexity Gaming announced that Lee would be retiring from professional gaming, ending a career spanning over a decade.\n\nLee first became known when he participated in an ITV game special where amateur players were pitted against professional players. Lee was the amateur and beat the player Chrh. Not long after, Lee made his debut as a pro gamer by winning three KPGA tours in three consecutive seasons all in a year's time. When the KPGA tour became the MBCGame StarCraft League, the KPGA tours were deemed equal to MSL wins, resulting in Lee being granted the golden badge, an award for winning three MSLs. Lee topped his KPGA Tour wins with a victory in the Panasonic OnGameNet Starleague. Afterwards Lee went into a slump; though he continued to be a strong player and came in second or first place in various leagues and tournaments, Lee did not win an MSL or OSL until the IOPS Ongamenet Starleague in 2004 or 2005. However, not long afterwards, Lee would enter the darkest period in his career. On 18 July 2005, FiFo reported that Lee's father had been killed in an automobile accident when an intoxicated driver performed an illegal U-turn and collided with his father's vehicle.\n\nWhen Lee eventually returned to pro-gaming he began his return to the top. In December 2007, Lee was once again the number one-ranked pro gamer in the KeSPA rankings. It had been a full two years and five months since he had stopped performing in July 2004. Lee's comeback culminated in his victory in the 2006 2nd ShinHan Bank OnGameNet StarLeague. In his winner's interview, Lee dedicated his victory to his father, saying \"Yes, it is my first time winning the finals with my mother seated as the audience. But, for this very victory, I give it all to my father, though he didn't make it. From now on, I will do my best for my mother.\" This victory not only marked a successful comeback performance, but also was Lee's third OSL win, him becoming the first player in history to earn the OSL's Golden Mouse trophy and was Lee's sixth major title win, making him the then most accomplished \"Brood War\" player in the game's history.\n\nIn 2007, Lee signed a three-year contract with WeMade FOX for approximately 690,000 USD. After his contract with the organization expired in 2010, Lee announced his intentions to fully switch to \"StarCraft II\". Only after his retirement from \"Brood War\" was he equaled by Lee \"Flash\" Young-Ho for the most achievements in StarCraft: Broodwar. He joined the Korean team and gamer house of Old Generations and quickly became one of the strongest names in the \"StarCraft II\" scene, competing in the GOMTV Global StarCraft II League Season 2. There he advanced to the round of 8 before being defeated by Lim \"BoxeR\" Yo-Hwan. The following season Lee made it to round of 8 again, but was defeated by Lee \"MarineKingPrime.WE\" Jung-Hoon, losing 3 to 0. On July 15, 2011, SK Gaming announced a joint partnership with Old Generations, allowing for Lee and his teammate, Jang \"MC\" Min Chul, to be sponsored for international events on behalf of the organization. The partnership between Old Generations and SK Gaming ended on January 13, 2012, with Lee remaining with the former, while Jang remained with the latter until his contract expired at the end of January. On the 16th of February, Lee signed with American gaming team compLexity Gaming, wanting to participate in more \"StarCraft II\" events outside of Korea before leaving gaming to fulfill his mandatory South Korean Military service.\n\nIt was announced that on November 20, 2011, Lee would be fulfilling his dream of becoming a CEO by opening up his own e-store, the NaDa Mall, which sells pro-gaming equipment.\n\nLee became married on November 9, 2015 at the \"Legacy of the Void\" launch party held at COEX in Seoul. Fans were invited to purchase a Collector's Edition of the expansion pack and following the wedding ceremony showmatches were held to showcase the new expansion. The video was also live-streamed on TwitchTV and Afreeca.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148226", "title": "Leisure industry", "text": "Leisure industry\n\nThe leisure industry is the segment of business focused on recreation, entertainment, sports, and tourism (REST)-related products and services (including all playable simulacra).\n\nThe field has developed to the point of having university degrees and disciplines focused on it, such as the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration, Webber, and San Jose State University's departments of hospitality, recreation and tourism management. Some universities offer leisure degrees, two of those universities can be found in the Netherlands: the Breda University of Applied Sciences and the Stenden University of Applied Sciences. Both offer bachelor's in international leisure management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4823926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4823926", "title": "Literary activism", "text": "Literary activism\n\nLiterary activism is a form of protest and critique aimed at corporate publishing houses and the literary fiction/nonfiction that they publish. The progenitors of literary activism are the members of the Underground Literary Alliance. This group of writers is notorious for its protests, which have included making formal complaints against Guggenheim grants given to already-wealthy authors, crashing New York literary readings, and maintaining a website which reports weekly on the perceived corruption and lack of integrity of the current literary world.\n\nActs of literary activism can also include editing and bringing out writers' work in online and print journals and through book publishers, reading and reviewing that work, writing essays about it, teaching it, talking it up, urging others to launch journals and indies presses, running reading series, laboring in arts administration, coordination innovative writing conferences, launching local writing groups, posting about authors and texts they love on their blogs or via other social networking sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "10126014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10126014", "title": "Louis Odumegwu Ojukwu", "text": "Louis Odumegwu Ojukwu\n\nSir Louis Odumegwu Ojukwu, KBE, (1908– September 1966) was a Nigerian business tycoon from the Ojukwu family of Nwakanwa quarters obiuno umudim Nnewi. \nSir Louis, who was considered the wealthiest person in Nigeria at the time, was Nigeria's first recorded Millionare; and was the founder of Ojukwu Transport, Ojukwu Stores and Ojukwu Textiles. At his peak, he was the first and founding President of The Nigerian Stock Exchange as well as President of The African Continental Bank. He was also either Chairman or on the board of directors of some of Nigeria's most profitable companies such as Shell Oil Nigeria Limited, Guinness Nig. Ltd, Nigerian National Shipping Lines, Nigerian Cement Factory, Nigerian Coal Corporation, Costain West Africa Ltd, John Holt, Nigerian Marketing Board amongst others. He won a parliamentary seat during the nation's first republic. He attended a primary school in Asaba and the Hope Waddell Institute. His son Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu was a Nigerian military Governor and the President of the secessionist state of Biafra.\n\nIn 1936 he met Bishop John Cross Anyogu - then a parish priest at Nnewi. Louis was a Roman Catholic. \n\nOjukwu started his professional career at the Agricultural department before leaving to join John Holt as a tyre sales clerk. He also incorporated a textile company in Onitsha to supplement his income during this period, already exhibiting a little bit of his entrepreneurial spirit. While at John Holt, he noticed the severe strain a lack of adequate transportation had on Eastern textile traders. He later left John Holt to create a transport company to improve the trading environment for Nigerian traders. As a transporter he was a tireless worker and meticulous to detail; he was usually the first to inspect his transport vehicles for oil and leakages. Apart from his work ethic, his success was also oiled by the economic boom after World War II, working with the West African Railway Company and the newly inaugurated produce boards, he provided his fleet for commodity transportation and for other traders use. As a transporter he had his own transport company (Ojukwu Transport Limited)which was the first major transport company to move the easterners to Lagos from the Asaba end of the Niger river after they might have crossed over from Onitsha on a boat.\n\nDuring the 1950s, he diversified his interest, bought some industries, invested heavily in the real estate sector and became a director in numerous major corporations including the state-owned Nigerian National Shipping Line. He was a member of the board of Nigerian Coal Corporation, Shell Oil, D'Archy, and African Continental Bank. \n\nDuring the period of pre-independence and in the First Republic, Ojukwu was an active member and donor to the political party, NCNC. He was a one-time member of the House of Representative. In 1958, he was chairman of the Eastern Region Development Corporation and the Eastern Regional Marketing Board. On May 1, 1953, he was appointed head of an NCNC peace committee and given power to choose most of the committee's members. The committee was charged with the responsibility of restoring peace in the regional House of Assembly. His views on policy were a little bit capitalistic and right of Zik's socialist undertones. He was a co-author of a report on the Economic Mission to Europe and North America with Azikiwe, the report recommended the investment of extra funds from the produce marketing board in a regional bank and public corporations to stimulate economic development.\nOjukwu died in 1966, just a year before the Nigerian civil war. His son Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu was the leader of the secessionist state of Biafra.\n\n"}
{"id": "6498985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6498985", "title": "Melker Schörling", "text": "Melker Schörling\n\nMelker Schörling (born 1947) is a Swedish billionaire businessman. His investment company Melker Schörling AB (MSAB) has large interests in Securitas AB, Assa Abloy, Hexagon AB, Loomis and more. Schörling formed a partnership with fellow billionaire Gustaf Douglas, who is also a major shareholder in Securitas and Assa Abloy.\n\nMelker Schörling is a graduate of the School of Business, Economics and Law, Gothenburg.\n\nHe made a name for himself as the CEO of Securitas in 1987 before moving on to Skanska, when Percy Barnevik was chair. Schörling later left his executive career to focus on his own investments.\n\nIn August 2006, Schörling revealed that he would take MSAB public, listing it on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. He also unveiled a new board of directors. The new board, one of the most high-profile in the Swedish business world, includes Stefan Persson, Carl-Henric Svanberg, and Schörling's daughter.\n\nAs of January 2015, he is worth $6.5 billion according to \"Forbes\".\n\nHe is married, with two children, and lives in Stockholm.\n"}
{"id": "46801875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46801875", "title": "Michel Besnier", "text": "Michel Besnier\n\nMichel Besnier (1928-2000) was a French heir and businessman. He served as the Chief Executive Officer of the Besnier Group, later known as Lactalis.\n\nMichel Besnier was born on September 18, 1928 in Laval, Mayenne. His father, André Besnier, founded the Besnier Group, a cheese company, in 1933. He received a Certificat d'études primaires.\n\nBesnier started his career at the family business alongside his father in 1946. After his father died in 1955, he became its Chief Executive Officer. \n\nHe launched Président, the brand of camembert, in 1968. He also acquired Lepetit, Lanquetot, puis Bridel, Lactel and Roquefort Société. His success lay in his ability to predict the vast expansion of supermarkets.\n\nHe changed the company name to Lactalis in 1999. \n\nHe married Christiane Besnier. They had two sons, Emmanuel and Jean-Michel, and a daughter, Marie. They owned a house in Marbella, Spain.\n\nHe died on June 11, 2000 at his Marbella home. He was seventy-one years old.\n"}
{"id": "58123306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58123306", "title": "Miss Geek Africa", "text": "Miss Geek Africa\n\nMiss Geek Africa is an entrepreneurship competition that originated as Miss Geek Rwanda in 2014 but was renamed Miss Geek Africa in 2017 and has expanded to 22 countries in Africa. Girls and women between the ages of 13 and 25 submit apps that solve problems through technological innovations. The top three competitors receive cash prizes and business training, and the winner also receives financial backing.\n\nThe Miss Geek Africa competition was originally created as Miss Geek Rwanda, with the first winner being crowned in 2014. It expanded to become Miss Geek Africa in 2017 and began accepting applications from 16 additional African countries. In 2018, it had 22 participating countries. The contest was created to inspire girls in Africa to solve challenges in the continent using technology and to encourage them to pursue careers in technology, science, mathematics and engineering. Girls and women between the ages of 13 and 25 submit technological innovations in the form of apps to the competition. The top three competitors receive cash prizes and all finalists receive business training. The winner also receives financial backing to help her realize her innovation. \"Girls in ICT Rwanda\" organizes the event.\n\nMiss Geek Africa\n\n\nMiss Geek Rwanda\n\n"}
{"id": "48618788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48618788", "title": "National Contract Management Association", "text": "National Contract Management Association\n\nThe National Contract Management Association (NCMA) is a professional association, based in the United States, dedicated to the profession of contract management. Founded in 1959, NCMA now has over 20,000 members and more than 100 local chapters. NCMA promotes contract management through various means, including education, networking, publications, legislative and regulatory alerts, professional certifications, a code of ethics, awards, job postings, salary surveys, and a leadership development program.\n\nNCMA offers the following professional certifications in contract management:\n\nNCMA produces the following contract management publications:\n\n"}
{"id": "37113530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37113530", "title": "Peruvian Amazon Company", "text": "Peruvian Amazon Company\n\nThe Peruvian Amazon Company, also called the Anglo-Peruvian Amazon Rubber Co, was a rubber boom company that operated in Peru in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Based in Iquitos, it became notorious for the ill treatment of its indigenous workers in the Amazon Basin, whom its field forces treated as virtual slaves. The company's practices were exposed in 1913 by the investigative report of British consul-general Roger Casement and an article and book by journalist W. E. Hardenburg.\n\nThe Arana Brothers company, who had sought capital in London, were fused with the PAC in 1907.\nJulio César Arana ran the company in Peru. Its British Board of Directors included Sir J. Lister Kaye.\n\nThe company operated in the area of the Putumayo River, a river that flows from the Andes to join the Amazon River deep in the tropical jungle. This area was contested at the time among Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, and it was inhabited by numerous indigenous people.\n\nThe company participated in abuses and criminal actions against laborers in the area, with its overseers using force and even killing to suppress the workers. An investigative report by Roger Casement, British consul, exposed the abuses, embarrassing British members of the company's board. They put pressure on Arana to improve operations. A movement grew to stop the abuse and eventually led to the end of the company. The Anti-Slavery and Aborigines Protection Society was one of the activist groups working to stop the abuses.\n\nW. E. Hardenburg wrote a scathing article in the British magazine \"Truth\". The British government in 1910 sent the consul-general Roger Casement to investigate. His report also denounced the operations of the PAC. A 1912 book by Hardenburg, which contained edited extracts of Casement's report, was described by its editor as \"perhaps the most terrible page in the whole history of commercialism.\" A Select Committee of the House of Commons published a paper on the investigations in 1913. The British Board of Directors was considered not criminally liable under the Slave Trade Acts. However, the Parliament and others moved to tighten up anti-slavery laws. World War I interrupted this work.\n\nAmong the findings by the various investigatory parties were widespread debt bondage, slavery, torture, mutilation, and many other crimes in the Amazonian Rubber industry, with the Putumayo area being but one example. Religious leaders such as Manuel Polit, Bishop of Cuenca in Ecuador, denounced these activities and worked to reform the system. Organizations such as the Sociedad Pro-Indigena also worked to improve conditions for indigenous workers. The area governments also attempted to implement measures to control the abuses, but it was difficult in the large, sparsely populated countryside, which had few road connections to major cities.\n\nArana was appointed liquidator in September 1911, and the company was forced into closure by a judge in 1913. After the company was closed, the receiver stated that the shareholders would receive nothing, and the creditors would receive small amounts. He blamed the downfall on the British directors, the Chairman of whom was known as J. Russell Gubbins.\n"}
{"id": "2150319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2150319", "title": "Project Space Station", "text": "Project Space Station\n\nProject Space Station is a game published in 1985 by HESware, originally written for the Commodore 64 home computer, then ported to the Apple II series and PC compatibles.\n\nIn the game the player is put in control of NASA and tasked with building and maintaining a space station and generating enough money with commercial contracts to make up for an anemic yearly budget. This can be seen as a discrete set of phases, except that they all proceed simultaneously. The exception is at the beginning of the game where the player has unlimited time in the planning phase before the game clock starts.\n\nIn the planning phase, the player first allocates the funds they have to various budget items, like crew selection, station modules, and research and development. Then they choose their crew, who have intrinsic task sets (like piloting and physics), and varying levels of competence and compatibility with other potential employees. From there the player purchases equipment like space suits and satellites, and station modules like laboratories and solar arrays. Then they schedule their launches using the two space shuttles available (\"Atlantis\" and \"Discovery\", though the initial release used the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\"), and have their budget approved. In the final stage of the planning phase the player can create a simulated station with an unlimited number of parts, and without dealing with the later constrictions of the EVA.\n\nThe launch phase has the player decide whether launch conditions are stable enough to merit launch. If they give the implicit go-ahead, they engage in a light arcade sequence where the player attempts to keep the shuttle on course throughout its orbital burn. The more successful the player is, the closer the shuttle will be to the station.\n\nOnce the shuttle is in orbit, the player is tasked to assemble the components they brought up (or to fire off any satellites they have contracts for) in the Extra-Vehicular Activity, or EVA phase. Here the player directly controls an Orbital Construction Pod, a small ship with mechanical arms that an astronaut can use to move large equipment. Being careless here could have consequences as the pod or equipment may become damaged, and it may run out of fuel and become stranded until another pod can rescue it. Consequences were not limited to equipment damage: Stranded astronauts in pods could die when oxygen ran out. Other crew hazards included solar flares, which could kill astronauts on the station or shuttle if precautions (using an emergency module in station design) were not taken. Crew died in reverse alphabetical order from solar flares.\n\nThe player then transfers crew to and from the space station and assigns them to research tasks. Completing these tasks awards the player with government contracts that supplement NASA's budget. A math bug (or intentional cheat) in the game allowed an infinite supply of money, if the player allocated more than $10,000K to any budget. For example, if $800k is spent, the budget would be recalculated to $19,200K instead of $9,200, as expected.\n\nFinally the player lands the shuttle. After determining that landing conditions are adequate, the player again keeps the shuttle on course as it turns from the station and enters its descent. Skill here determines how close the shuttle will be to the optimal point from the runway. After this the player controls the shuttle with a simple landing simulator viewed from the side. The more abrupt or overshot the landing, the more damage will be done to the shuttle and the longer it will need to be repaired before it can venture out on another mission.\n\nThe game is played using a menu system. Every option can be queried for in-game help, and every major task has a tutorial that simulates that task without the consequences of failure, and sometimes with additional assistance (like being able to pause a landing attempt). Another major feature is the message system that alerts the player when there are changes to mission status, wherever the player might be within the menu system.\n\n"}
{"id": "51164309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51164309", "title": "Stratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert", "text": "Stratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert\n\nStratton's Independence, Ltd. v. Howbert, 231 U.S. 399 (1913), was a case before the U.S. Supreme Court that addressed the question of corporate taxation.\n\nThe case was argued on October 21, 1913, and decided on December 1, 1913.\n\nStratton's Independence, Limited, a British corporation that owned and operated mines in Colorado, sued in a district court to recover taxes it had paid under protest in accordance with the provisions of the Corporation Tax Act of 1909. During the year 1909, the firm had had gross sales of $284,682.85 and costs of $190,939.42, resulting in a profit of $93,743.43. In 1910, the figures had been similar. \n\nStratton's contended that the mining and sale of ore was an essentially different sort of activity than manufacturing, because it involved the depletion and sale of capital, and should therefore not be taxed in the same way, because taxing the sale of ore amounted to taxing capital.\n\nJustice Pitney, in the majority opinion, stated that the case raised three questions. The first was whether or not the Corporate Tax Act applied to mining corporations. The second question raised was whether or not proceeds from mining activities constituted \"income\" by the definition of the act. The final question related to whether or not ore sales were considered income and therefore if the mining corporation could deduct the value of the ore in place before it was mined as depreciation. The court answered the first two questions in the affirmative, but not the third. Mining, Justice Pitney argued, is generally comparable to manufacturing, and is certainly a business; hence, the gains from this activity should be considered income for the purposes of taxation.\n\nChief Justice White, Justice McKenna, and Justice Holmes dissented on the third question.\n\nThe case represented one of the Supreme Court's early attempts to define the term “income.”\n\nJustice Pitney's description of income as “the gain derived from capital, from labor, or from both combined” has been widely quoted, as has his comment that “the corporation tax act of 1909 was not intended to be and is not, in any proper sense, an income tax law.”\n\nThe case has been cited (unsuccessfully) in such cases as \"Hill v. United States\" and \"Cameron v. Internal Revenue Service, in support of the argument that a tax on an individual's income is unconstitutional, even though the decision in Stratton did not rule either corporate or individual income tax unconstitutional.\n"}
{"id": "1704600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704600", "title": "T. A. Denny", "text": "T. A. Denny\n\nThomas Anthony \"T. A.\" Denny (2 April 1818 – 25 December 1909) was an Irish bacon merchant, a self-described \"pork philanthropist\". Although not a member of the Salvation Army, he supported it financially. His philanthropic activities also included support for education. In April 1868, he married Mary Jane Noel (1829-1887), daughter of Baptist Wriothesley Noel. In 1893, he married the evangelist Elizabeth Hope, who was 24 years his junior.\n\nDenny was one of a small group of wealthy benefactors who sustained the Salvation Army in its early years. He attended meetings called in 1877 by Samuel Morley, another benefactor, to discuss differences with William Booth, after which he continued to provide financial support despite continuing to disagree with Booth about doctrine and methods. His support included, in 1881, paying the first year's rent on the organisation's headquarters at 101 Queen Victoria Street in London and supporting the establishment of the Army in France. In 1882 he contributed to the repayment of debts incurred for the building of barracks.\n\nIn 1890 Denny provided most of the funding for the buildings occupied by Woolwich Polytechnic and served as chairman of its board from 1891 to 1894.\n"}
{"id": "4558038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4558038", "title": "Theatre consultant", "text": "Theatre consultant\n\nA theatre consultant is a consultant who specializes in the design of facilities for the performing arts, equipment for those facilities and the operation of theatre.\n\nProfessional consultants provide unbiased, functionally sound, practical consulting and design services for performance and public assembly facilities of all kinds.Owners and architects use their expertise to programme, plan and help with the construction of these kinds of complicated buildings. Their professional organization in the United States is the American Society of Theatre Consultants (ASTC). The international equivalent organisation is the Institute of Theatre Consultants (IoTC). There are also many Theatre Consultants that are not members of these organisations. Unlike the practice of architecture or engineering, theatre consulting is not regulated by professional license, but the Institute of Theatre Consultants accredits Theatre Consultants on the basis of proven work, operates a Code of Practice and provides training to members.\n\nConsultants are generally expert in building codes and the requirements of the American with Disabilities Act as related to theatres, auditoria, and concert halls. They typically provide detailed design for special theatre systems such as performance lighting systems, stage rigging, orchestra pit lifts, seating (fixed and movable), acoustical canopies and more. Some theatre consulting firms also provide acoustical and/or audio-visual consulting, although those are specialties in their own right.\n\nTheatre Consultants may work directly for a facility or organisation, or they may be contracted as a specialty (sub)consultant for a Project Architect or Engineer. Services can range from programmatic planning for the development of new facilities, planning for the refurbishment or repurposing of existing facilities, or just (re)design or assessment of specific production systems.\n\nOrganizations:\n\nRelated Industry Organizations:\n"}
{"id": "2811267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2811267", "title": "Type approval", "text": "Type approval\n\n\"For declaration of conformity see Conformance mark\"\n\nType approval or certificate of conformity is granted to a product that meets a minimum set of regulatory, technical and safety requirements. Generally, type approval is required before a product is allowed to be sold in a particular country, so the requirements for a given product will vary around the world. Processes and certifications known as \"type approval\" in English are generally called homologation, or some cognate expression, in other European languages.\n\nCompliance to type-approval requirements can be denoted by a third-party marking on the back of the product (e.g. ABS, TÜV, UL, CSA, KIWA), or by a type-approval certificate obtained by a manufacturer and kept on file. The CE mark found on the back of many electronic devices does not mean that the product has obtained type approval in the European Union. The CE mark is the manufacturer's declaration that the system/assembly meets the minimum safety requirements of all the directives (laws) applicable to it, and of itself, does not signify any third party involvement in the design or testing of a system/assembly. Many of the New Approach safety directives do not mandate third party involvement at all (e.g. LVD, EMD), and the ones that do (e.g. PED, MDD, ATEX) only require notified body (NoBo) involvement above a certain degree of risk category. When the risk category mandates this involvement, the CE Marking on the system/assembly will be followed by the NoBo number, which right to use is granted by the NoBo after the required design review, testing or auditing, as spelled out in the Conformity Assessment options of each directive. On the other hand, in China type approval is denoted by the CCC mark.\n\nType approval is not a term confined to a particular industry. Type approval requirements exist for products as diverse as marine equipment, mobile phones, automotive industry, or medical equipment. Type approval simply means that the product is certified to meet certain requirements for its \"type\", whatever that may be.\n\nVehicle type approval is the confirmation that production samples of a design will meet specified performance standards. Traditionally, there are two systems of type approval in Europe. The first one is based on the EC directives and regulates the approval of whole vehicles, vehicle systems, and separate components. The second one is part of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe regulations (UNECE) and also regulates the approval of whole vehicles, vehicle systems, and separate components. Recent changes to the requirements have seen the General Safety Regulation (GSR) EC661/2009 amending Directive 2007/46/EC by substituting the equivalent UNECE regulations in place of the EC directives. In effect the directives are being replaced by UNECE regulations. This now makes compliance with the UNECE regulations for type approval submissions compulsory from 1 November 2012 and compulsory for all vehicles entering to service from 1 November 2014.\n\nThe new framework directive (Directive 2007/46/EC establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles) rules the approval schemes of the new motor vehicles and their trailers in the European Union:\n\nEach jurisdiction that regulates communications requires all types of equipment, and especially radio communications equipment, that are not specifically exempted (by reason of low power output, for instance) to be tested for conformance to local regulations before it is approved for use in that jurisdiction. Such conformance might include power and noise characteristics, use of permitted frequencies only, frequency stability, and various other electrical parameters.\n\nA certificate of conformance is defined in American commerce as a document certified by a competent authority that the supplied good or service meets the required specifications. A certificate of conformance is a lot/datecode specific certification that provides traceability of the goods back to the point of manufacture. \n\nA certificate of conformity may be required of vendors of goods to nuclear generating stations to get the vendor to legally commit to stating compliance with applicable laws and regulations.\n\nA CoC or EC Certificate of Conformity is equal to a declaration of the conformity with the type approval of EC. It is produce to ensure the free movement of cars within the European Union, specifically for those cars that are subject to homologation or registration.\n\nA CoC is a producer’s declaration car or motorcycles comply with the given approved type. This document contains information about the vehicle and its producer’s identification, type approval number, other technical specifications. The content of a CoC is defined by the European regulation (Amendment IX, Regulation 92/53). Vehicles which do not comply with the EU specification (as vehicle manufactured for the U.S. or Japanese market) and older vehicles that have not been given the type approval of the EC yet, cannot have an existing CoC. Similarly, it is not possible to issue a CoC for converted vehicles; in this case another technical document might help register your car. Only car and motorcycles are eligible.\n\nCertificates of conformity have been defined in EU’s Single Internal Market and Type Approval Directive (EC-92). EU’s single internal market became official on 1 January 1993. Part of the \"EC-92\" effort was to remove the technical barriers preventing the free movement of products within the EU market. The greatest impact of this effort has been in the area of standards in the automotive sector. The EU Commission is seeking to harmonise the automotive, technical and environmental standards between all the member states. EU legislation defines the standards in the areas of noise, particle emissions and safety. In addition, the EU’s Directive on Type Approval (EU Council Directive 92/53) eliminates the need for national type approval requirements by establishing one set of rules for automobiles and their components throughout the EU. This directive aims at the clarification of the type approval procedure for motor vehicles, separate technical units (i.e., trailers), and components.\n\nIt simplifies the documentation, designates the type approval number of a separate technical unit by a certificate of conformity, and defines the vehicles, individual technical units, and components. Certificates of conformity, as specified in Annex IX of EU Directive 92/53, will be required for an automobile to enter into service. For component approvals, an endorsement that is issued under the relevant regulations by the U.N. Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) is recognised as equivalent to an approval granted under comparable EU legislation. In March 1992, the EU Council formally adopted the few remaining pieces of component-related legislation that are necessary to make the whole-vehicle type approval a reality for passenger cars. In June 1992, EU member state officials approved the adoption of EU legislation creating a single system for the certification of passenger cars, in turn defining the safety, and other technical, requirements. Legislation established an EU type approval system to replace the national schemes of the twelve member states. In 1996, the EU type approval system became mandatory.\n\nVehicles with an EU type approval can be marketed anywhere in the European Community. Therefore, a vehicle only needs to receive the type approval certification in one EU country in order to be accepted in all of the other member countries. To receive a type approval, products may either be brought to a testing facility or manufacturers may opt to maintain their own testing equipment. Nevertheless, US and EU automobiles still must be certified to this single set of rules by an authorised member state agency. A similar system was adopted for the type approval of two- and three-wheeled vehicles, which became effective on 1 January 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "26599094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26599094", "title": "Walter Kissling", "text": "Walter Kissling\n\nMelvin Walter Kissling Gam (April 25, 1931 – January 28, 2002) was a Costa Rican businessman who became one of the first Central Americans to lead a Fortune 500 company. He is also known for having played an important role in the founding of the INCAE Business School campus in Costa Rica, as well as founding the Costa Rican non-profit organization Asociación de Empresarios para el Desarrollo.\n\nWalter Kissling was born to Walter Kissling Rickli and Adela Gam Secen in Limón, Costa Rica on April 25, 1931. His father was of Swiss descent, and his mother came from Vienna, Austria. In a newspaper interview in 1998 he mentioned his mother as driving force in his life. “She was a fighting woman. She descended from wealthy family from Vienna, who had lost it all in the First World War. During all of my infancy, one of very limited means, it was through my mother’s efforts that I was able to study and get ahead.”\n\nKissling graduated from Colegio Seminario in San José in 1948. After graduation he worked selling cheese and as a receptionist in the Hotel Europa in downtown San José. During his work at the hotel, he met a North American businessman who gave him 2 pamphlets and told him that if he learned them by heart he would hire him as a pharmaceutical sales representative. This is how he started working at Wyeth International, he worked there for 7 years.\n\nKissling never graduated from college, he advanced professionally through hard work and taking advantage of the opportunities he was offered.\n\nSeeking to advance his career, Kissling joined Kativo Chemical in 1953. At that time the company was a small business that fabricated the Protecto brand of paints in a workshop in Sabana Sur, San José. He worked there for 10 years and was tasked with leading the expansion of the company to the Central American markets.\n\nWith the acquisition of Kativo Chemical by H.B. Fuller in 1967, Kissling was appointed as vicepresident for Latin America, all the while maintaining his role as general manager at Kativo Chemical. He then led the opening of several H.B Fuller manufacturing plants throughout Latin America.\n\nHe went on to serve the company in significant leadership positions, including senior vice president of international operations, and executive vice president and chief operating officer. In 1995 he was named chief executive officer of H.B. Fuller, serving in this capacity until his retirement in 1998. He also was a 34-year member of Fuller's board of directors.\n\nKissling had an active role in the founding of the Costa Rican Campus (now named after him) of the INCAE Business School in 1984, after the situation of the INCAE campus in Nicaragua became unstable due to the Nicaraguan Revolution. He was also president and a 16-year member of the board of directors of INCAE.\n\nHe was president of La Camara de Industrias de Costa Rica and served on the boards of several companies including: La Nación, Atlas Eléctrica, Banco Banex, and Pentair Inc.\n\nKissling spent most of his later life promoting Corporate Social Responsibility in Costa Rica. In 1997 he founded Asociación Empresarial para el Desarrollo a non profit organization that promotes Corporate Social Responsibility in Costa Rica.\n\nHe died on January 28, 2002 following a battle with cancer. He was 70.\n\nThe INCAE Business School named its Campus in Costa Rica in his honor. Many Costa Rican business leaders consider Walter Kissling as the Franklin Chang-Diaz (notable Costa Rican - American astronaut) of Costa Rican business because of his achievements.\n\n"}
{"id": "16521645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16521645", "title": "Zahi Khouri", "text": "Zahi Khouri\n\nZahi W. Khouri is a Palestinian-American businessman and entrepreneur, who is best known for his involvement in numerous business ventures in the Palestinian territories.\n\nKhouri was born into a Palestinian Christian family in 1938 in the city of Jaffa, then part of Mandatory Palestine. His family fled the city during the Arab invasion of the coast during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, along with the majority of its Arab inhabitants, becoming Palestinian refugees in neighboring Lebanon. Khouri has described himself as \"a faithful Christian\". Khouri lived in Lebanon until the 1960s, when he moved to Germany to pursue an advanced degree.\n\nKhouri earned a Master's degree in Engineering from the Stuttgart Institute of Technology, before going on to receive an M.B.A. from the European Institute of Business Administration, INSEAD in Fontainebleau, France.\n\nIn 1967, he moved to the United States, where he settled in Richmond, Virginia and built a career in international business. \"Mr. Khouri was an Executive Board Member of the Olayan Group in Saudi-Arabia (as CEO of Olayan Saudi Holdings) and NY (as CEO of Olayan Development Co) for over 20 years. He also holds a number of civic positions among others, the Chairman of NGO Development Center (NDC) in Jerusalem, the Palestine Business Committee for Peace and Reform (PBCPR) in Washington, the Carter Advisory body in Palestine and Chairman of the local chapter of Partners for New Beginning, affiliated with Aspen Institute\".\n\nFollowing the signing of the Oslo Accords between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization in 1993, which granted limited sovereignty to the Palestinians in parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Khouri moved back to Palestine in order to establish business ventures there along with several other Palestinian entrepreneurs. He helped establish the Palestinian Development and Investment Company (PADICO), the largest Palestinian investment company, as well as the Palestinian National Beverage Company, which manufactures and markets Coca-Cola products under official franchise in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. He was also the CEO of Jawwal, the only Palestinian telecommunications company and cellular service provider.\n\nKhouri has been an outspoken critic of the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories and has met with American government officials as a representative of the Palestinian business community to voice concern over the effects of the Israeli occupation and embargo on the Palestinian economy. He has also published editorials in major U.S. newspapers condemning Israeli practices and calling for equal rights for Palestinians.\n\n"}
