{"id": "40315776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40315776", "title": "A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom", "text": "A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom\n\nA History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom was published in two volumes by Andrew Dickson White, a founder of Cornell University, in 1896. \n\nIn the introduction White states the original goal of his 1874 lecture on \"The Battlefields of Science\" and elaborated in a book \"The Warfare of Science\" the same year:\n\nIn these volumes he chronicles the gradual emancipation of science from theology in various fields.\n\nThe literal interpretation of Genesis, including denial of all death and of animals not of use to man before the introduction of sin, gives way to the recognition of the enormous number of species in the world. Various evolutionary ideas opposed progressively by Linnaeus, Cuvier and Agassiz led up to the theory of natural selection proposed by Darwin and Wallace. The initial theological opposition gradually gave way to compromise by most churches.\n\nThe spherical ideas of Pythagoras, Plato and Aristotle had replaced earlier ideas from Chaldeans and Egyptians of a flat earth. The church fathers favoured the idea of a solid roof or firmament over the earth and this was elaborated early on, but in the Middle Ages most followed authorities such as Thomas Aquinas in accepting sphericity. Jerusalem was accepted as the centre of the world and a refusal to accept the existence of antipodes led many to assume that the other side of the world was entirely aqueous. Opposition to the antipodes did not cease for centuries after Magellan's voyages and also contributed to underestimates of the size of the earth, which happened to help Columbus. Religious feeling encouraged the expansion of Europeans across the globe.\n\nDespite earlier more literal ideas, the Ptolemaic view of a geocentric universe was fully adopted by the Church, adding an immovable heavenly sphere above the stars and hell below the earth. In the sixteenth century, Copernicus challenged this view but his book was not published until after his death, when it was given a preface suggesting that it was simply a hypothesis. When Galileo used his telescope to show other reasons for rejecting the Ptolemaic view he faced opposition from both Catholics and Protestants. He was forced to renounce his sun-centred view, which was not formally accepted by the Catholic church before the nineteenth century. In England attacks continued into the eighteenth.\n\nComets, meteors and eclipses were widely seen as portents of doom by most early civilizations. Although natural explanations for eclipses were understood in the Christian era, comets and meteors continued to be regarded as warnings by Bede, Aquinas and others and they could not be reconciled with conceptions of the heavenly spheres. Till the end of the seventeenth century there were attempts to keep astronomical explanations of comets from the university curriculum and church congregations.\n\nEarly Greek germs of explanations of fossils received no attention in Christendom before Leonardo da Vinci and even in the mid-eighteenth century Comte de Buffon was forced to retract simple geological truths by the theology faculty of the Sorbonne. The doctrine of creation provided no room for animals, particularly carnivores, prior to Adam's fall and most theories of geology revolved around the flood which broke open \"the fountains of the great deep\". Attacks on geologists such as William Buckland, Dean Conybeare and Prof Sedgwick from religious people continued into the nineteenth century, claiming that geology was \"not a subject of lawful inquiry\" and that they were \"attacking the truth of God\". But finally, Buckland abandoned his adherence to the special place of the flood in geological history and Lyell's uniformitarian doctrine held sway. Subsequently George Smith's discovery that the Genesis story was an adaptation of earli—er Chaldean flood myths finished most attempts to use the flood story in science.\n\nThe Biblical record was traditionally taken as a standard for the antiquity of mankind with estimates of 5199 BC under Pope Urban VIII in 1640 and 4004 BC of Bishop Ussher in 1650. Joseph Scaliger had previously argued for taking the histories of Egypt and Babylon into account and during the eighteenth century it became increasingly difficult to fit their chronologies into this timescale. In the nineteenth century, Menes, the first king of Egypt was dated at more than 3,000 BC and that itself represented an advanced civilization, with its pyramids, sphinxes and astronomical knowledge. Manetho gave lists before this covering 24,000 years. Excavations of pottery in the Nile flood area gave times of 11,000 years. These periods were confirmed in Assyria and Babylon.\n\n\nFrom early ages people had found \"thunder-stones, shaped stones which were built into walls in Chaldea and hung round the necks of Egyptian dead. During the middle ages these were venerated as weapons used to drive out Satan in the \"war in heaven\". In the late 16th century, Michael Mercati attempted to prove they were weapons or implements of early races of men, but his and later finds were largely ignored until in 1847 Boucher de Perthes published the first volume of \"Celtic and Antediluvian Antiquities\" which included engravings of some of the thousands he had found close to the Somme. In 1861, Edward Lartet showed evidence that humans had coexisted with extinct quaternary animals whose bones had cut marks on them and subsequently the existence of cave paintings at Les Eyzies and La Madeleine. More finds even suggested that humans may have existed in the Tertiary period and showed \"the utter inadequacy of the chronology given in our sacred books\".\n\nThe Biblical view of the perfect creation of humans followed by a fall is paralleled by stories of a golden age in many cultures. The alternative, that man has slowly risen from low or brutal beginnings is also found in Greece and most notably Lucretius. Finds of Cro-Magnon and other skulls showed a rise in form. Finds in Scandinavia and elsewhere demonstrated a progression from stone to bronze to iron implements. Prehistoric buildings also showed development and this was also demonstrated by comparative ethnography. Attempts to challenge these have not been widely credited.\n\nStudy of groups of people in the early stages of development show many similarities with evidence of Egyptian or Jewish archaeology, demonstrating development. This was opposed by several otherwise liberal men including Archbishop Whately and the Duke of Argyll who argued that barbarous races were the remains of civilized races not their forerunners.\n\nHistory shows many examples where weaker bodies of men driven out of society have not relapsed to barbarism but have risen even under the most unfavourable circumstances. Other civilizations that have declined have been replaced by richer. Thus \"Anthropology and its handmaids Ethnology, Philology and History, have wrought out, beyond a doubt, proofs of the upward evolution of humanity\".\n\nThe conceptions of the early church about the weather were largely concerned with the (solid) firmament above the earth, whether flat or spherical. Many writings were ascribed to Bede who thought the firmament was formed of ice. Albert the great attempted to reconcile the views of Aristotle with those of the fathers. But often the attempt was to explain scriptural ideas such as the promise of a rainbow given to Noah or to ascribe storms to demons. Disasters—floods, droughts, lightning—come as direct punishment from God for human sins. This applied up to the eighteenth century. The worst superstition blamed witches and used torture to extract confessions. Blaming demons for storms only ceased after Franklin's kite experiment with lightning in 1752.\n\nMagic, which had been regarded with tolerance in the Roman empire as long as it was used for purposes such as healing, was seen in Christianity as the active interference of Satan. Constantine quickly brought in severe laws against magic and magicians, though he subsequently said that his intention was only against malignant uses. But subsequent emperors forgot this distinction and severity against magic increased. By 1317 when Pope John XXII issued his bull aimed at the alchemists, he also dealt a severe blow to the beginnings of chemical science. In 1484 Pope Innocent VIII let inquisitors loose in Germany armed with the Witches Hammer to torture and destroy men and women for sorcery and magic. The Reformation did little to change things. Roger Bacon was deemed a superstitious alchemist. John Baptist Porta's scientific society was broken up in the late 16th century. Even Robert Boyle was attacked from the Oxford pulpit. Attempts to resist scientific teaching continued into the 19th century.\n\nChristianity brought hospitals and infirmaries following the lead of Jesus the healer. But there was a tendency to elevate normal acts of healing into subsequent accounts of miracles, as in the case of St. Francis Xavier. From this came an industry in healing relics and belief in the 'royal touch'. For many years there was an idea that dissection was sacrilege and surgery was regarded as dishonourable. Until the 14th century it was mainly Jewish and Muslim physicians that promoted ideas of hygiene, and physical remedies risked the charge of magic. As Vesalius pioneered new approaches in the 16th century, many in the churches clung to the outmoded views of Galen. In the 18th and 19th centuries there was much religious opposition to the idea of inoculation.\n\nPestilences were frequent in medieval times but an idea took hold that cleanliness betokens pride and filthiness humility, leading to many of the great saints not washing for years. Since holy relics were regarded as cures, the church grew richer at times of epidemics. In the 16th century the blame for disease was often placed on heretics and witches who were widely tortured. But only in the 19th century was scientific hygiene widely introduced.\n\nIn Greek and Roman times, the idea of insanity as brain disease was gradually developed but this was forgotten by a church who believed in diabolic possession, despite the efforts of some religious orders to keep scientific doctrines alive. This led to the tendency to punish the insane to combat the devils, particularly to eradicate Satan's pride. Only in the 18th century were more humane methods gradually introduced.\n\nAs early as the 11th century there are accounts of diabolic possession taking the form of epidemics of raving, dancing and convulsions, particularly among women and children. This became pronounced at the end of the 14th century after the Black Death. In the 16th century Paracelsus suggested it might be a physical disease, but in the 17th there were further outbreaks such as the Loudun possessions and those leading to the witch trials at Salem and Würzburg. Later outbreaks were dispersed by more sceptical and humane means.\n\nEvery people held that its language was given to it by its own deity. The Hebrew story recounts the story of the Tower of Babel as the source of multitudes of languages, a story which finds parallels in Hindu and Mayan mythologies. The early church generally took the view that the original language was Hebrew, against which even Gregory of Nyssa argued in vain. There was trouble in the 16th century when some mistakenly argued that even the vowel signs in the Hebrew were part of the infallible text, not realising they were added by Rabbinic scribes between the 2nd and 11th centuries. Great efforts were made to trace the roots of European languages back to Hebrew, culminating in Bishop Walton's Polyglot Bible. This was confounded when Sanskrit, brought back to Europe originally by Jesuit missionaries, was shown by Sir William Jones to be the root of all the Indo-European languages, a verdict accepted by theologians, despite final skirmishes.\n\n\nMyths and legends abound in all countries and from all periods to explain natural phenomena. For centuries those of the countries surrounding Palestine were studied in comparison to each other, but never those of Palestine itself. But the legends such as the pillar of salt said to be Lot's wife, near the Dead Sea, were universally believed in Christendom, from St. Jerome to Sir John Mandeville. Yet from the 16th century, travellers from Pierre Belon were more sceptical, culminating in the visit of Lieutenant Lynch of the US Navy who sailed on the Dead Sea in 1847 and claimed justification for the Biblical story, but described the pillar of salt as a superstition. White welcomes the change by theologians and concludes \"the worst enemy of Christianity could wish nothing more than that its main leaders should prove that it can not be adopted save by those who accept, as historical, statements which unbiased men throughout the world know to be mythical\".\n\nThe fathers of the church from Tertullian to St. Augustine joined with St. Basil in condemning money lent at interest as a 'fecund monster' and it was condemned at church councils from Elvira in 304 to Vienne in 1311 and money-lenders were banned from communion. It was reinforced by Thomas Aquinas and Dante. Hence there was little capital and few lenders: rates of interest became 40% in England and 10% per month in Italy and Spain. The rich who had no way to invest their money spent it in ostentatious living and the Jews were hated as the money lenders. Eventually Calvin in the 16th century cut through the metaphysical arguments of Aristotle and declared that usury means \"illegal or oppressive interest\". Commerce and trade revived in Protestant countries, though more slowly in Germany. No change happened in Catholic countries until Benedict XIV in 1745 left open vague \"occasions\" and \"special grounds\" on which extra money could be charged. In 1830 the Inquisition at Rome decreed that in practice, confessors should no longer disturb lenders of money at legal interest. Slowly the church retreated from the many ways in which it dominated the economy.\n\nDuring the Renaissance, Erasmus noticed that a reference to the Trinity in the first letter of John was not in early manuscripts and omitted it from his Greek testament. There was an outcry. Luther omitted the same passage. The great Jewish scholar Aben Ezra had discreetly questioned the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch in the 12th century and four centuries later a Catholic and a Protestant theologian both revived the idea but were suppressed. These ideas were revived by Spinoza a century later. By the early nineteenth century, it was shown in Germany that much of the Mosaic ceremonial law only dated from the exile period. Techniques of criticism developed for secular history were applied to the sacred. In 1860, Bishop Wilberforce, who had a few months before battled Huxley over evolution, turned on Essays and Reviews, which brought this thinking to England, creating a huge storm. By the end of the century, the same issues were facing the Catholic church. Meanwhile, the archeological results from Assyria and Egypt confirmed the radical readings of the Old Testament. Scholarship was also being brought to bear on the New Testament.\n\n″No work—not even John William Draper's best-selling History of the Conflict between Religion and Science (1874)—has done more than White's to instill in the public mind a sense of the adversarial relationship between science and religion. His Warfare remains in print to the present day, having appeared also in German, French, Italian, Swedish, and Japanese translations. His military rhetoric has captured the imagination of generations of readers, and his copious references, still impressive, have given his work the appearance of sound scholarship, bedazzling even twentieth-century historians who should know better. In recent decades, for example, the intellectual historian Bruce Mazlish certified White's thesis to have been established \"beyond reasonable doubt,\" and the late George Sarton, a distinguished historian of science at Harvard found White's argument so compelling that he urged its extension to non-Christian cultures.\n\nSuch judgments, however appealing they may be to foes of \"scientific creationism\" and other contemporary threats to established science, fly in the face of mounting evidence that White read the past through battle-scarred glasses, and that he and his imitators have distorted history to serve ideological ends of their own. Although it is not difficult to find instances of conflict and controversy in the annals of Christianity and science, recent scholarship has shown that the warfare metaphor to be neither useful or tenable in describing the relationship between science and religion.″\n\nHistorian of science Lawrence Principe writes, \"No serious historians of science or of the science-religion issue today maintain the warfare thesis...The origins of the warfare thesis lie in the late 19th century, specifically in the work of two men - John William Draper and Andrew Dickson White. These men had specific political purposes in mind when arguing their case, and the historical foundations of their work are unreliable.\" \nPrincipe goes on to write \"Despite appearances, White’s arguments are scarcely any better than Draper’s. White uses fallacious arguments and suspect or bogus sources. His methodological errors are collectivism (the unwarrantable extension of an individual’s views to represent that of some larger group of which he is a part), a lack of critical judgement about sources, argument by ridicule and assertion, failure to check primary sources, and quoting selectively and out of context. White popularized the baseless notions that before Columbus and Magellan, the world was thought to be flat and that the Earth’s sphericity was officially opposed by the Church. He is also responsible for the equally fallacious notion that the Church forbade human dissection. The notion - eternally repopularized by Hollywood - that the medieval Church condemned all science as devilry runs throughout White; this view is likewise baseless.\"\nIn his course on Science and religion, Principe points out a couple of examples of White's poor scholarship, \"Let’s start with a simple and a notorious example: the idea that before Columbus people thought that the world was flat. Well, in fact, it is Draper and White, specifically, both of them, who bear most of the blame for popularizing this baseless view to the extent that nowadays, 80 percent of school teachers still foist this upon poor innocent school children. The fact is that of course the sphericity of the Earth was well established by the fifth century BC by the Greeks, and a good measure of its circumference made by the third century BC. And these facts were never forgotten in learned Western Culture.\"\n\nPrincipe goes on to say, \"White tells of a brave Columbus who fought mightily for the revolutionary notion of the earth’s sphericity. And here he helps us out (damning himself) with a footnote that reads “W. Irving, Life of Columbus” Yes, indeed, this is Washington Irving of Rip Van Winkle and headless horseman fame, who wrote a fictionalized account of Columbus in 1838. Yet White uses it as a historical source. This is an error of critical judgement.\"\nPrincipe sums up White's book this way: \"Refuting White is like shooting fish in a barrel. With his combination of bad sources, argument by assertion, quoting out of context, collectivism, and general reliance on exclamation, rather than evidence and argument, White’s is not a book to be taken seriously. Its real value is as a relic of its particular time and place, and as a museum of how not to write history...While we can look today with astonishment upon the shoddy character of Draper and White’s writings, their books have had enormous impact, and we can’t deny that. Much of this is due to their great success in their creating a myth for science as a religion. Their myth of science as a religion is replete with battles, and martyrdoms, and saints, and creeds. And as we know, or should know, myths are often much more powerful than historical realities.\"\n\n\"Even a century after its publication, White's great work has much to teach us about the dangerous effects of religious doctrinalism on education and moral growth.\"\n\nThe warfare motif which was popular in the 19th century has not worn well and most historians of science and religion have moved on from this. Current attitudes range over methodological naturalism and Gould's NOMA although the conflict is still found between creationists and scientists such as Richard Dawkins.\n\nHistorian of science and a self-confessed Christian, Ted Davis, has commented, \"White was an historian himself, and for several generations his riveting narrative of enlightened and progressive science triumphing over ignorant and obscurantist theology set the tone for many other historical studies of science and religion. In the past few decades, however, historians of science have decisively rejected the ‘warfare’ view, along with many of the widely believed myths that White and Draper promulgated—such as the fictitious claim that John Calvin cited Psalm 93 against Nicolaus Copernicus or the wholly unfounded assertion that most Christians prior to Christopher Columbus believe in a flat earth. By insisting that all aspects of the history of science and religion must fit into one poorly chosen conceptual box, the ‘warfare’ view lied by gross oversimplification and led numerous scholars to overlook the large amount of historical material that just didn’t fit into that box.\"\n\nHistorian of science and the son of a Seventh-day Adventist preacher Ronald Numbers has stated, in a collection dealing with inaccuracies made by White and others, \"Historians of science have known for years that White's and Draper's accounts are more propaganda than history.\"\n\nDespite Christian writers' appeals that differences between science and religiosity have been resolved in a conciliatory manner, White's book was and continues to be a resounding and scholarly indictment of Draper's charge that \"The history of Science is not a mere record of isolated discoveries; it is a narrative of the conflict of two contending powers, the expansive force of the human intellect on one side, and the compression arising from traditionary faith and human interests on the other.\"[7]\n\nIn response to many of White's assertions, James Joseph Walsh wrote a historical response called \"The Popes and Science: The History of the Papal Relations to Science During the Middle Ages and Down to Our Own Time\" in 1908.\n\n7 John William Draper, History of the Conflict Religion, D. Appleton and Co. (1881)\n\n"}
{"id": "987712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987712", "title": "Adi Da", "text": "Adi Da\n\nAdi Da Samraj, born Franklin Albert Jones (November 3, 1939 – November 27, 2008), was an American spiritual teacher, writer and artist. He was the founder of a new religious movement known as Adidam. He changed his name numerous times throughout his life; these names included Bubba Free John, Da Free John, Da Love-Ananda, Da Kalki, Da Avadhoota and Da Avabhasa, among others. From 1991 until his death, he was known as Adi Da Love-Ananda Samraj or Adi Da.\n\nAdi Da initially became known in the spiritual counterculture of the 1970s for his books and public talks, and for the activities of his religious community. His philosophy was essentially similar to many eastern religions which see spiritual enlightenment as the ultimate priority of human life. Distinguishing his from other religious traditions, Adi Da declared that he was a uniquely historic avatar (incarnation of a god or divinity in human form). As such, Adi Da stated that henceforth devotional worship of him would be the sole means of spiritual enlightenment for anyone else.\n\nAdi Da wrote many books about his spiritual philosophy and related matters, founding a publishing house to print them. He gained praise from authorities in spirituality and philosophy, but was also criticized for what were perceived as his isolation, controversial behavior, claims toward exclusive realization, and cult-like community.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, allegations by former followers of false imprisonment, brainwashing, sexual abuse, assault and involuntary servitude received international media attention. These allegations resulted in lawsuits or threatened suits on both sides \n\nAdi Da was born Franklin Albert Jones on November 3, 1939, in Queens, New York and raised on Long Island. His father was a salesman and his mother a housewife. A sister, Joanne, was born when he was eight years old. He served as an acolyte in the Lutheran church during his adolescence and aspired to be a minister, though after leaving for college in the autumn of 1957 he expressed doubts about the religion to his Lutheran pastor. He graduated in 1961 with a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Columbia University and went on to complete a master's degree in English literature at Stanford University in 1963.\n\nAfter graduating from Columbia, Adi Da began using a variety of hallucinogenic and other drugs, sometimes heavily. In 1963, after finishing at Stanford, for 6 weeks he was a paid test subject in drug trials of mescaline, LSD, and psilocybin that were conducted at a Veterans Administration hospital in California. He wrote later that he found these experiences \"self-validating\" in that they mimicked ecstatic states of consciousness from his childhood, but problematic as they often resulted in paranoia, anxiety, or disassociation. For over a year, Adi Da lived with his girlfriend Nina Davis in the hills of Palo Alto. While she worked to support them, he wrote, took drugs, meditated informally, and studied books on hermeticism in order to make sense of his experiences.\n\nResponding to an intuitive impulse, they left California in June 1964 in search of a spiritual teacher in New York City. Settling in Greenwich Village, Adi Da became a student of Albert Rudolph, also known as \"Rudi\", an oriental art dealer and self-styled spiritual guru. Having studied a number of spiritual traditions, including \"The Work\" of G.I. Gurdjieff and Subud, Rudolph was then a follower of Siddha Yoga founder Swami Muktananda, who gave Rudi the name \"Swami Rudrananda\". Rudi taught an eclectic blend of techniques he called \"kundalini yoga\" (having no literal relationship to the Indian tradition by that name.)\n\nAdi Da's father told Rudi of his son's onetime aspiration to become a Lutheran minister. Feeling that he needed better grounding, in 1965 Rudi insisted that he marry Nina, find steady employment, lose weight, end his drug use, and begin preparatory studies to enter the seminary. As a student at Philadelphia's Lutheran Theological Seminary in 1967, Adi Da described undergoing a terrifying breakdown. Taken to a hospital emergency room, a psychiatrist diagnosed it as an anxiety attack. It was the first in a series of such episodes he would experience throughout his life, each followed by what he explained to be profound awakenings or insights. Feeling none of his Lutheran professors understood this experience, Adi Da left and briefly attended St. Vladimir's Russian Orthodox Seminary in Tuckahoe, New York. Disillusioned, he moved back to New York City and got a job working for Pan American Airlines, in hopes this would facilitate his being able to visit Swami Muktananda's ashram in India. He did so for four days in April 1968. Swami Muktananda encouraged Adi Da to end his studies with Rudi and study with himself directly.\n\nBack in New York, Adi Da and wife Nina became members and then employees of the Church of Scientology. Following Scientology protocol, he wrote Rudi a letter severing all contact. After a little more than a year of involvement, Adi Da left Scientology. He then returned to India for a month-long visit in early 1969, during which Swami Muktananda authorized him to initiate others into Siddha Yoga.\n\nIn May 1970, Adi Da, Nina, and a friend from Scientology named Pat Morley gave away their belongings and traveled to India for what they believed would be an indefinite period living at Swami Muktananda's ashram. However, Adi Da was disappointed by his experience there, especially by the numbers of other Americans who had arrived since his previous visit. Three weeks after arriving, Adi Da said that visions of the Virgin Mary (that he interpreted as a personification of divine feminine power, or shakti) directed him to make a pilgrimage to Christian holy sites. After two weeks in Europe and the middle east, all three returned to New York before moving to Los Angeles in August.\n\nIn September 1970, Adi Da said that while sitting in the Vedanta Society Temple in Hollywood, he permanently realized \"The Bright\", his term for a state of complete spiritual enlightenment. He wrote an autobiography titled \"The Knee of Listening\", which was published in 1972. In it, Adi Da wrote that he had uniquely been born with full awareness of \"the Bright,\" but this knowledge became obscured in childhood. His subsequent spiritual journey was a quest to recapture this awareness, and share it with others.\n\nIn October 1970, Swami Muktananda stopped in California on a worldwide tour largely underwritten by Rudi. Adi Da visited him and related his experience the previous month of \"The Bright.\" Adi Da felt that the swami did not understand or properly acknowledge the full importance of his experience. During the visit Adi Da reconciled with Rudi.\n\nWith fellow former Scientology employee Sal Lucania as financier, Adi Da opened Ashram Books (later Dawn Horse Books), a spirituality bookshop in Los Angeles. He began giving lectures there based on his autobiography, soon attracting a small following due in part to his charismatic speaking style. He taught in a traditional Indian style, lecturing from a raised dais surrounded by flowers and oriental carpets, with listeners seated on the floor. He incorporated many ideas from the Kashmir Shaivite and Advaita Vedanta schools of Hinduism, but also expressed original insights and opinions about both spirituality and secular culture. He was one of the first westerners to become well known as a teacher of meditation and eastern esoteric traditions at a time when these were of growing interest. Some early participants stated that Adi Da demonstrated an ability to produce alterations in their consciousness, likening the effect to shaktipat of Indian yoga traditions.\n\nWith an increasing number of followers, Adi Da founded a new religious movement called \"The Dawn Horse Communion\". In 1973, he traveled to India to meet a final time with Swami Muktananda in hopes of being recognized as a \"Mahasiddha\", or fully enlightened sage. They disagreed on a series of questions Adi Da had prepared. This effectively ended their relationship, and they went on to later disparage each other's relative level of spiritual accomplishment. Adi Da nevertheless stated that he continued to appreciate and respect Muktananda as his onetime teacher.\n\nUpon returning to Los Angeles, Adi Da (then Franklin Jones) directed his students that he should now be addressed as \"Bubba Free John,\" based on a nickname meaning \"friend\" combined with a rendering of \"Franklin Jones\". He divorced Nina, although she remained a follower. In January 1974, Adi Da told his followers that he was \"the divine lord in human form\". Later that year, the church obtained an aging hot springs resort in Lake County, California, renaming it \"Persimmon\" (it is now known as \"The Mountain of Attention\"). Adi Da and a group of selected followers moved there and experimented in communal living. Most followers relocated from Los Angeles to San Francisco, where Dawn Horse Books also moved.\n\nAdi Da often changed his name, saying it reflected differences or changes in the nature of his message and relationship to followers. In 1979, he changed his name from \"Bubba Free John\" to \"Da Free John\". Subsequent names included Da Love-Ananda, Dau Loloma, Da Kalki, Hridaya-Samartha Sat-Guru Da, Santosha Da, Da Avadhoota, Da Avabhasa, and from 1994, Adi Da Love-Ananda Samraj, or Adi Da. Adi Da translated the Sanskrit syllable \"Da\" as \"giver.\"\n\nIn 1973, Adi Da began to use more unconventional means of instruction he called \"crazy wisdom\", likening his methods to a tradition of yogic adepts who employed seemingly un-spiritual methods to awaken observer's consciousness. Some followers reported having profound metaphysical experiences in Adi Da's presence, attributing these phenomena to his spiritual power. Others present remained skeptical, witnessing nothing supernatural.\n\nAdi Da initiated a period of teachings and activities that came to be known as the \"Garbage and the Goddess\". He directed his followers in \"sexual theater\", a form of psychodrama that often involved public and group sex, the making of pornographic movies, and other intensified sexual practices. Drug and alcohol use were often encouraged, and earlier proscriptions against meat and \"junk food\" were no longer adhered to.\n\nAdi Da said that this behavior was part of a radical overturning of all conventional moral values and social contracts in order to help shock students into insights regarding habitual patterns and emotional attachments so that they could more completely surrender to him and the community. Conventional marriage received Adi Da's particular criticism, and many couples were forced to split up or switch partners. Adi Da himself had nine or more polygamous partners during this time that he called his \"wives\", including Playboy centerfold Julie Anderson, aka \"Whitney Kaine\" who had entered the community as a follower's girlfriend. He likewise recommended polygamy or polyamory to some followers.\n\nAdi Da published his fourth book, titled \"Garbage and the Goddess: The Last Miracles and Final Spiritual Instructions of Bubba Free John\". It documented the relatively unexpurgated lectures and activities of this period. It quickly sold out its first print run, and a second was sent to bookstores. However, due to the controversial nature of its contents, all available copies were quickly retrieved and ritually burned at Adi Da's behest.\n\nIn 1983, Adi Da moved with a group of about 40 followers to the Fijian island of Naitaba, purchased by a wealthy follower from the actor Raymond Burr. It was his primary residence until the end of his life.\n\nAccusations of Adi Da abusing his power as a spiritual leader attracted international attention in 1985. Adi Da and Adidam (then known as Da Free John and The Johannine Daist Communion) were subjects of almost daily coverage in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", \"San Francisco Examiner\", \"Mill Valley Record\", other newspapers, and regional television news and talk shows over several weeks early in the year. The story gained national attention with a two-part exposé on The Today Show that aired May 9 and 10.\n\nIn investigative reports and dozens of interviews, both named and anonymous ex-members made numerous specific allegations of Adi Da forcing members to engage in psychologically, sexually, and physically abusive and humiliating behavior, as well as accusing the church of committing tax fraud. Others stated that they never witnessed or were involved in any such activities.\n\nAdi Da and his organization were sued by Beverly O'Mahoney, then wife of the Adidam president, for fraud, intentional infliction of emotional distress, false imprisonment, and assault and battery (among other things); the suit sought $5 million in damages.\nTo a local reporter, Adidam threatened to file its own lawsuit against O'Mahoney, as well as five others who had been named in stories and interviews making allegations of abuse (no suit was ever filed). Adidam charged that allegations against the church were part of an extortion plot.\n\nThe church issued conflicting statements in response to the coverage. A lawyer for the church said that controversial sexual activities had only occurred during the \"Garbage and Goddess\" period years earlier. Shortly after, an official church spokesman said that \"tantra-style encounters\" of the kind described in allegations were still occurring, but were mostly confined to an inner circle. This confirmed the stories by former members that such activities had continued up to the time of the lawsuits and interviews, but had been kept hidden.\n\nTwo lawsuits were filed against Adi Da and the church in California in 1985. The O'Mahoney suit was dismissed the next year. The other lawsuit and several threatened suits in subsequent years were settled with payments and confidentiality agreements, negatively impacting member morale and bleeding the organization financially.\n\nOn January 11, 1986, distressed by what he felt was the futility of his work, Adi Da experienced a physical and psychological crisis. Doctors diagnosed exhaustion and stress, but he afterward described it as a death and resurrection. As in previous and subsequent similar episodes, Adi Da attributed special significance to it, calling it his \"Divine Emergence\". From this point on, he said that one needed only to meditate on his image or body in order to \"participate in his enlightened state\".\n\nAdi Da had predicted that by the year 2000 he would be recognized by the entire world for his unique spiritual realization. When this failed to occur, he experienced another breakdown. This was said to initiate another period, where Adi Da would shift from \"active teaching\" to silent \"spiritual blessing\" to counteract negative forces in the world. He nonetheless continued to write books, make art, and give talks to his followers, but with an increased emphasis on what he called \"silent darshan\".\n\nIn 2000, some followers of spiritual teacher Frederick Lenz joined Adidam, reportedly upsetting long-time followers who felt the new members were undeservedly privileged (Lenz, also known as \"Zen Master Rama\", had committed suicide in 1998). Adi Da claimed to have been Swami Vivekananda in a past life, and said that in a previous incarnation Lenz was then a disciple.\n\nAdi Da later began exhibiting his digital art and photography. Followers reported that he died of cardiac arrest on November 27, 2008 at his home in Fiji, while working on his art.\n\nAdi Da had four children: three biological daughters with three different women, and one adopted daughter. These include actress Shawnee Free Jones.\n\nFundamental to Adi Da's religious philosophy is the essentially \"eastern\" religious concept that the purpose of human life is spiritual enlightenment, an awakening to ultimate reality that is the natural state of all human beings (though seemingly obscured.)\n\nAdi Da said that what keeps human beings from experiencing this ultimate, enlightened reality is the activity of ego, which he stated is the source of all emotional, psychological, and spiritual dissatisfaction. He called this activity \"self-contraction,\" and defined it as a psychological mechanism lying somewhere beneath the normal level of conscious awareness, leading people to believe they are limited, suffering individuals. He said that fundamentally, all efforts to unite with the divine from the point of view of a separate self were futile, since that separate self itself is illusory.\n\nAdi Da developed a map of potential human and spiritual evolution that he called \"the seven stages of life\".\n\nThe first six stages account for all permutations of religion and culture throughout history, as well as levels of personal development. Adi Da categorized the fourth, fifth, and sixth stages of life as the highest respective stages of human development. He characterized those who have reached these stages as \"saints\", \"yogis\", and \"sages\", including other religious figures such as Gautama Buddha and Jesus Christ.\n\nRelative to this spectrum, Adi Da stated that while some \"yogis, saints, and sages\" had occasionally indicated some awareness of a \"seventh stage\", only he as a unique avatar had ever been born fully invested with the capability to fully embody it; furthermore, as the first \"Seventh Stage Adept\" only he would ever need to (or be capable of) doing so. He stated that the seventh stage has nothing to do with development and does not come after the sixth stage in a sequential manner. The culminating awareness of this seventh stage is a permanent, natural state of \"open-eyed ecstasy\", for which Adi Da employed the Sanskrit term \"Sahaja Nirvikalpa Samadhi\".\n\nAdi Da insisted that since he solely embodied seventh stage realization, devotional worship of him would henceforth be the exclusive means for others to free themselves from \"self-contraction\", thereby allowing them to \"participate in his enlightened state\" (i.e. attain awareness themselves of the seventh stage, or \"realize\" it.)\n\n\"Adidam\" refers to both the organization of Adi Da's devotees and the religion he taught. The organization, or church, founded initially in 1972, went by many earlier names, including the Dawn Horse Communion, the Free Communion Church, the Laughing Man Institute, the Crazy Wisdom Fellowship, the Way of Divine Ignorance, and the Johannine Daist Communion.\n\nAdidam presupposes an eastern view of divinity and accepts the concepts of karma, reincarnation, chakras, etc. It also employs many Sanskrit terms and concepts. God, or the divine, is seen as a principle and energy, a consciousness that predates creation but is not a willful creator itself.\n\nThough earlier manifestations were more eclectic and experimental, over time Adidam increasingly came to resemble the Hindu tradition of bhakti yoga. The practice of Adidam is now defined by its emphasis on a devotional relationship to Adi Da, whom followers see as an enlightened source of power serving as the sole gateway to the divine. Adi Da's followers often refer to him simply as \"Beloved\". Through devotion and service, it is believed that the follower's consciousness is gradually transformed in the image of Adi Da's. While devotion to Adi Da and the study of his teachings are the primary features of Adidam, other specified practices are also prescribed, including the study of other religious texts, physical exercises, regulation of sexuality, and a raw vegan diet.\n\nAdi Da said that after his death there would not be any further teachings or \"revelations\", and that his message was complete. His artwork, writings, and the religious hermitages and sanctuaries \"empowered\" by his presence are to remain as expressions of his teaching and being. He was emphatic that no individual assert themselves as his representative or heir.\n\nWhile the church is based on Naitaba Island, Fiji, there are five officially designated ashrams, or \"sanctuaries\", belonging to Adidam. Three are located in North America, with another in Hawaii. Followers of Adidam have been ambitious and prolific in their dissemination of Adi Da's books and teachings; however, the church is estimated to have remained more or less constant at approximately 1,000 members worldwide since 1974, with a high rate of turnover among membership.\n\nAdi Da wrote prolifically about his spiritual philosophy, creating the Dawn Horse Press in 1973 to publish his books. It continues to print many Adi Da-authored titles. Best known among these is his autobiography, \"The Knee of Listening.\" First published in 1972, it has been reissued in a number of editions, undergoing extensive revisions and additions. The first edition was 271 pages long; the latest is 840.\n\nIn the last decade of his life, Adi Da created visual art. These works were primarily photographic and digitally produced. He labeled his style \"Transcendental Realism.\" In 2007 Adi Da's works were included in an exhibition collateral to the Venice Biennale in Italy curated by Italian art historian Achille Bonito Oliva; the exhibit then moved to Florence.\n\n\"The Spectra Suites\", a book of Adi Da's art, has an introduction by American art historian and critic Donald Kuspit.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1990, philosophical theorist and author Ken Wilber wrote a number of enthusiastic endorsements and forewords for Adi Da's books, including \"The Dawn Horse Testament\", \"The Divine Emergence of the World-Teacher\", and \"Scientific Proof of the Existence of God Will Soon Be Announced by the White House!\" Wilber also recommended Adi Da as a spiritual teacher to those interested in his own writings.\n\nLater, Wilber alternated between praise and pointed criticism. In his last public statement concerning Adi Da he wrote: \"I affirm all of the extremes of my statements about Da: he is one of the greatest spiritual Realizers of all time, in my opinion, and yet other aspects of his personality lag far behind those extraordinary heights. By all means look to him for utterly profound revelations, unequaled in many ways; yet step into his community at your own risk.\"\n\nIn 1982, yoga and religion scholar Georg Feuerstein formally became a follower of Adi Da, and wrote a number of introductions to Adi Da books. He later renounced this affiliation, becoming publicly critical of Adi Da and the community surrounding him in Fiji. Feuerstein devoted a chapter to Adi Da in his 1991 book \"Holy Madness: Spirituality, Crazy-Wise Teachers, and Enlightenment\". In the introduction to the 2006 edition, Feuerstein describes having edited the sections devoted to Adi Da to reflect these changes in opinion.\n\nAsian religions scholar Scott Lowe was an early follower of Adi Da and lived in the community in 1974. In an essay later analyzing what he had witnessed as well as Adi Da's subsequent career, he perceives a pattern of \"abusive, manipulative, and self-centered\" behavior, saying \"does it necessarily follow that the individual who is 'liberated' is free to indulge in what appear to be egocentric, hurtful, and damaging actions in the name of spiritual freedom? I personally think not, while acknowledging the subtlety and complexity of the ongoing debate\".\n\nLowe and others have also criticized Adi Da's claims toward the exclusivity of his realization. In part, critics point to his earlier message strongly rejecting the necessity for any religious authority or belief, due to \"enlightenment\" being every individual's natural condition.\n\nAdi Da heavily edited subsequent editions of his books, for which they have been criticized as auto-hagiography and self-mythology.\n\nUniversity of Southern California religion professor Robert Ellwood wrote, \"Accounts of life with [Adi Da] in his close-knit spiritual community [describe] extremes of asceticism and indulgence, of authoritarianism and antinomianism...Supporters of the alleged avatar rationalize such eccentricities as shock therapy for the sake of enlightenment.\"\n\nIn a foreword to the 2004 edition of Adi Da's autobiography \"The Knee Of Listening\", religious scholar Jeffrey Kripal described Adi Da's total corpus as being \"the most doctrinally thorough, the most philosophically sophisticated, the most culturally challenging, and the most creatively original literature currently available in the English language.\"\n\nPhysician and homeopath Gabriel Cousens wrote an endorsement for Adi Da's biography \"The Promised God-Man Is Here\", saying, \"it has deepened my experience of Him as the Divine Gift established in the cosmic domain\". He also mentions Adi Da in his books \"Spiritual Nutrition\" and \"Tachyon Energy\".\n\nPsychiatrist Elizabeth Kübler-Ross wrote an endorsement for Adi Da's book \"Easy Death\", referring to it as a \"masterpiece\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52946794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52946794", "title": "African Jazz Mokili Mobimba", "text": "African Jazz Mokili Mobimba\n\nAfrican Jazz Mokili Mobimba (often referred to as Africa Mokili Mobimba or Afrika Mokili Mobimba) was a popular song written in the Congolese rumba style by Mwamba Mongala and performed by Joseph Kabasele's band, African Jazz.\n\nBeginning in June 1961, the popular Congolese band African Jazz —led by Joseph Kabasele— made a series of recordings in Brussels, Belgium. One of their new songs was \"African Jazz Mokili Mobimba\" (meaning \"African Jazz all over the world\"), written by guitarist Mwamba \"Déchaud\" Mongala in the Congolese rumba style. It was released later that year. It was a pastiche of two Latin American songs. The lyrics caution against excessive travel abroad. The song also references all of the performing musicians as well as several Congolese cities and African countries (a common way of expressing praise at the time). At just over five minutes in length, it was one of the first African recordings to make use of the larger 45 rpm records then only recently available in the continent.\n\n\"African Jazz Mokili Mobimba\" went on to become a hit of the early 1960s. It became particularly popular in Kenyan dance clubs in 1965. It is often considered to be one of African Jazz's most memorable songs, though by the early 2000s it was commonly referred to as simply \"Africa Mokili Mobimba\".\n\nIn 1994 the song was covered by ex-OK Jazz musician Sam Mangwana and the Fania All-Stars for the former's album, entitled \"Rumba Music\". African Jazz vocalist Tabu Ley Rochereau later recorded \"African Jazz Mokili Mobimba\" as a solo artist to be the leading track on his 1996 live album \"Africa Worldwide\". Ex-OK Jazz guitarist Papa Noel Nedule frequently featured Mangwana and Rochereau in his covers of the song.\n\n"}
{"id": "30476541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30476541", "title": "Alexander Spirkin", "text": "Alexander Spirkin\n\nAlexander Spirkin (; 1918–2004) was a Soviet and Russian philosopher and psychologist. He was born in Saratov Governorate and graduated from the Moscow State Pedagogical University. In 1959 he received his doctorate in philosophy for a dissertation on the origin of consciousness. He became a professor in 1970, and a year later was elected Vice-President of the USSR Philosophical Society. On November 26, 1974, Alexander Spirkin became a Corresponding Member of the USSR Academy of Sciences. His principal works deal with the problems of consciousness and self-consciousness, worldview, and the subject matter, structure and functions of philosophy. Prof. Spirkin’s \"Fundamentals of Philosophy\" (1988; English translation 1990) expounding Marxist–Leninist philosophy in popular form was awarded a prize at a competition of textbooks for students of higher educational establishments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51399846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51399846", "title": "Benevolence and the Mandate of Heaven: Transformation of pre-Qin Confucian Classics", "text": "Benevolence and the Mandate of Heaven: Transformation of pre-Qin Confucian Classics\n\nBenevolence and the Mandate of Heaven: Transformation of pre-Qin Confucian Classics is a book by a Taiwanese historian Olga Gorodetskaya (Kuo Ching-yun), published in 2010 in Taipei. The book concerns itself with the Confucian philosophical concepts of Benevolence (Ren) and the Mandate of Heaven and their evolution during the period before the establishment of the empire by Qin dynasty. \n"}
{"id": "945930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=945930", "title": "Cardinal virtues", "text": "Cardinal virtues\n\nFour cardinal virtues were recognized in classical antiquity and in traditional Christian theology:\nThese virtues derive initially from Plato's scheme, discussed in \"Republic\" Book IV, 426–435 (and see \"Protagoras\" 330b, which also includes piety (\"hosiotes\")). Cicero expanded on them, and Ambrose, Augustine of Hippo, and Thomas Aquinas adapted them while adding a set of theological virtues.\n\nThe term \"cardinal\" comes from the Latin (hinge); virtues are so called because they are regarded as the basic virtues required for a virtuous life. They also relate to the Quadrivium.\n\nThe four cardinal virtues appear as a group (sometimes included in larger lists) long before they are later given this title.\n\nPlato identified the four cardinal virtues with the classes of the city described in \"The Republic\", and with the faculties of man. Plato narrates a discussion of the character of a good city where the following is agreed upon. “Clearly, then, it will be wise, brave, temperate [literally: healthy-minded], and just.” (427e; see also 435b) Temperance was common to all classes, but primarily associated with the producing classes, the farmers and craftsmen, and with the animal appetites, to whom no special virtue was assigned; fortitude was assigned to the warrior class and to the spirited element in man; prudence to the rulers and to reason. Justice stands outside the class system and divisions of man, and rules the proper relationship among the three of them.\n\nPlato sometimes (e.g., \"Protagoras\" 349b; cf. 324e, 329c, 330b, 331a-c) lists holiness (\"hosiotes\", \"eusebeia\", \"aidos\") amongst the cardinal virtues. He especially associates holiness with justice, but leaves their precise relationship unexplained.\n\nIn Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\" we read: “The forms of Virtue are justice, courage, temperance, magnificence, magnanimity, liberality, gentleness, prudence, wisdom.” (\"Rhetoric\" 1366b1)\n\nThe Roman philosopher and statesman Cicero (106–43 BC), like Plato, limits the list to four virtues: \nCicero discusses these further in \"De Officiis\" (I, V and following).\n\nThe Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius discusses these in Book V:12 of \"Meditations\" and views them as the \"goods\" that a person should identify in one's own mind, as opposed to \"wealth or things which conduce to luxury or prestige.\"\n\nThe cardinal virtues are listed in the Bible. The deuterocanonical book Wisdom of Solomon 8:7 reads, \"She [Wisdom] teaches temperance, and prudence, and justice, and fortitude, which are such things as men can have nothing more profitable in life.\"\n\nThey are also found in the Biblical apocrypha. 4 Maccabees 1:18–19 relates: “Now the kinds of wisdom are right judgment, justice, courage, and self-control. Right judgment is supreme over all of these since by means of it reason rules over the emotions.”\n\nCatholic moral philosophy drew from all of these sources when developing its thought on the virtues.\n\nAmbrose (AD 330s–397) was the first to use the expression “cardinal virtues.” “And we know that there are four cardinal virtues temperance, justice, prudence, fortitude.” (\"Commentary on Luke\", V, 62)\n\nAugustine of Hippo, discussing the morals of the church, described them:\nThe \"cardinal\" virtues are not the same as the three theological virtues: Faith, Hope and Charity (Love), named in 1 Corinthians 13. \n\"And now these three remain: faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.\"\nBecause of this reference, a group of seven attributes is sometimes listed by adding the four cardinal virtues (prudence, temperance, fortitude, justice) and three theological virtues (faith, hope, charity).\nTogether, they comprise what is known as the seven virtues. While the first four date back to Greek philosophers and were applicable to all people seeking to live moral lives, the \"theological virtues\" appear to be specific to Christians as written by Paul in The New Testament.\n\nEfforts to relate the cardinal and theological virtues differ. Augustine sees faith as coming under justice. Beginning with a wry comment about the moral mischief of pagan deities, he writes:\nLater, in the High Middle Ages, some authors opposed the seven virtues (cardinal plus theological) to the seven capital sins. However, “treatises exclusively concentrating on both septenaries are actually quite rare.” and “examples of late medieval catalogues of virtues and vices which extend or upset the double heptad can be easily multiplied.” And there are problems with this parallelism.\nJesuit scholars Daniel Harrington and James Keenan in their \"Paul and Virtue Ethics\" (2010) argue for seven \"new virtues\" to replace the classical cardinal virtues in complementing the three theological virtues, listed as \"be humble, be hospitable, be merciful, be faithful, reconcile, be vigilant, and be reliable,\" although they don't explain why it has to be an either/or matter of replacing the cardinal virtues rather than supplementing them.\n\nThe Cardinal Virtues are often depicted as female allegorical figures and were a popular subject for funerary sculpture. The attributes and names of these figures may vary according to local tradition.\n\nIn many churches and artwork the Cardinal Virtues are depicted with symbolic items:\n\n\nNotable depictions include sculptures on the tomb of Francis II, Duke of Brittany and the tomb of John Hotham. They were also depicted in the garden at Edzell Castle.\n\nA humorous depiction of the four cardinal virtues appears in the children's book \"Masterpiece\" written by Elise Broach and illustrated by Kelly Murphy.\n\nAllegories of the virtues on the facade of the Gesuati church in Venice (1737)\nAllegories of the virtues on the facade of La Rochelle city hall\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33786608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33786608", "title": "Defensor pacis", "text": "Defensor pacis\n\nThe tract Defensor pacis (The Defender of Peace) laid the foundations of modern doctrines of sovereignty. It was written by Marsilius of Padua (Italian: Marsilio da Padova), an Italian medieval scholar. It appeared in 1324 and provoked a storm of controversy that lasted through the century. The context of the work lies in the political struggle between Louis IV, Holy Roman Emperor and Pope John XXII. The treatise is vehemently anticlerical. Marsilius' work was censured by Pope Benedict XII and Pope Clement VI.\n\n\"Defensor pacis\" extends the tradition of Dante's \"De Monarchia\" separating the secular State from religious authority. It affirmed the sovereignty of the people and civil law and sought to greatly limit the power of the Papacy, which he viewed as the \"cause of the trouble which prevails among men\" and which he characterized as a \"fictitious\" power. He proposed the seizure of church property by civil authority and the elimination of tithes. In his view, the Papacy would retain only an honorary pre-eminence without any authority to interpret the scriptures or define dogma.\n\nAs its name implies, it describes the State as the defender of the public peace, which is the most indispensable benefit of human society. The author of the law expresses will of the people, not of the whole populace, but of the most important part (\"valentior\") of the citizens; these people should themselves elect, or at least appoint, the head of the government, who, lest he should be tempted to put himself above the scope of the laws, should have at his disposal only a limited armed force. This chief is responsible to the people for his breaches of the law, and in serious cases they can sentence him to death. The real cause of the trouble which prevails among men is the Papacy, the development of which is the result of a series of usurpations.\n\nMarsilius denies, not only to the pope, but to the bishops and clergy, any coercive jurisdiction or any right to pronounce in temporal matters. He also denies episcopal authority of excommunications and interdicts, or other imposed interpretations of divine law. He is not opposed to penalties against heretics, but he would have them pronounced only by civil tribunals. Desiring to see the clergy practice a holy poverty, he proposes the suppression of tithes and the seizure by the secular power of the greater part of the property of the church. The clergy, thus deprived of its wealth, privileges and jurisdiction, is further to be deprived of independence, for the civil power is to have the right of appointing to benefices, etc. The supreme authority in the church is to be the council, but a council summoned by the emperor.\n\nThe pope, no longer possessing any more power than other bishops (though Marsilius recognizes that the supremacy of the See of Rome goes back to the earliest times of Christianity), is to content himself with a pre-eminence mainly of an honorary kind, without claiming to interpret the Holy Scriptures, define dogmas or distribute benefices; moreover, he is to be elected by the Christian people, or by the delegates of the people, i.e. the princes, or by the council, and these are also to have the power to punish, suspend or depose him. The theory was purely democratic, but was all ready to be transformed, by means of a series of fictions and implications, into an imperialist doctrine; and in like manner it contained a visionary plan of reformation which ended, not in the separation of the church from the state, but in the subjection of the church to the state.\n\nIn 1535, Thomas Cromwell paid William Marshall to translate \"Defensor\" into English in order to give intellectual support towards the implementation of Royal Supremacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1549748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549748", "title": "Dynamic and formal equivalence", "text": "Dynamic and formal equivalence\n\nDynamic equivalence and formal equivalence, terms coined by Eugene Nida, are two dissimilar translation approaches, achieving differing level of literalness between the source text and the target text, as employed in biblical translation. \n\nThe two have been understood basically, with the one as sense-for-sense translation (translating the meanings of phrases or whole sentences) with readability in mind, and with the other as word-for-word translation (translating the meanings of words and phrases in a more literal way) keeping literal fidelity.\n\n\"Formal equivalence approach\" tends to emphasize fidelity to the lexical details and grammatical structure of the original language, whereas dynamic equivalence tends to employ a more natural rendering but with less literal accuracy.\n\nAccording to Eugene Nida, \"dynamic equivalence\", the term as he originally coined, is the \"quality of a translation in which the message of the original text has been so transported into the receptor language that the \"response\" of the \"receptor\" is essentially like that of the original receptors.\" The desire is that the reader of both languages would understand the meanings of the text in a similar fashion.\n\nIn later years, Nida distanced himself from the term \"dynamic equivalence\" and preferred the term 'functional equivalence'. What the term \"functional equivalence\" suggests is not just that the equivalence is between the function of the source text in the source culture and the function of the target text (translation) in the target culture, but that \"function\" can be thought of as a property of the text. It is possible to associate functional equivalence with \"how people interact in cultures\".\n\nBecause \"functional equivalence\" approach eschews strict adherence to the grammatical structure of the original text in favor of a more natural rendering in the target language, it is sometimes used when the readability of the translation is more important than the preservation of the original grammatical structure.\n\n\"Formal equivalence\" is often more goal than reality, if only because one language may contain a word for a concept which has no direct equivalent in another language. In such cases, a more dynamic translation may be used or a neologism may be created in the target language to represent the concept (sometimes by borrowing a word from the source language).\n\nThe more the source language differs from the target language, the more difficult it may be to understand a literal translation without modifying or rearranging the words in the target language. On the other hand, formal equivalence can allow readers familiar with the source language to analyze how meaning was expressed in the original text, preserving untranslated idioms, rhetorical devices (such as chiastic structures in the Hebrew Bible) and diction in order to preserve original information and highlight finer shades of meaning.\n\nTranslators of the Bible have taken various approaches in rendering it into English, ranging from an extreme use of formal equivalence, to extreme use of dynamic equivalence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17998857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17998857", "title": "E. coli long-term evolution experiment", "text": "E. coli long-term evolution experiment\n\nThe \"E. coli\" long-term evolution experiment (LTEE) is an ongoing study in experimental evolution led by Richard Lenski that has been tracking genetic changes in 12 initially identical populations of asexual \"Escherichia coli\" bacteria since 24 February 1988. The populations reached the milestone of 50,000 generations and 66,000 in November 2016. Lenski performed the 10,000th transfer of the experiment on March 13, 2017.\n\nOver the course of the experiment, Lenski and his colleagues have reported a wide array of phenotypic and genotypic changes in the evolving populations. These have included changes that have occurred in all 12 populations and others that have only appeared in one or a few populations. For example, all 12 populations showed a similar pattern of rapid improvement in fitness that decelerated over time, faster growth rates, and increased cell size. Half of the populations have evolved defects in DNA repair that have caused mutator phenotypes marked by elevated mutation rates. The most striking adaptation reported so far is the evolution of aerobic growth on citrate, which is unusual in \"E. coli\", in one population at some point between generations 31,000 and 31,500.\n\nThe long-term evolution experiment was designed as an open-ended means of empirical examination of central features of evolution. The experiment was begun with three principal goals:\nAs the experiment has continued, its scope has grown as new questions in evolutionary biology have arisen that it can be used to address, as the populations' evolution has presented new phenomena to study, and as technology and methodological techniques have advanced.\n\nThe use of \"E. coli\" as the experimental organism has allowed many generations and large populations to be studied in a relatively short period of time. Moreover, due to the long use of \"E .coli\" as a principle model organism in molecular biology, a wide array of tools, protocols, and procedures were available for studying changes at the genetic, phenotypic, and physiological levels. The bacteria can also be frozen and preserved while remaining viable. This has permitted the creation of what Lenski describes as a \"frozen fossil record\" of samples of evolving populations that can be revived at any time. This frozen fossil record allows populations to be restarted in cases of contamination or other disruption in the experiment, and permits the isolation and comparison of living exemplars of ancestral and evolved clones. Lenski chose an \"E. coli\" strain that reproduces only asexually, lacks any plasmids that could permit bacterial conjugation, and has no viable prophage. As a consequence, evolution in the experiment occurs only by the core evolutionary processes of mutation, genetic drift, and natural selection. This strict asexuality also means that genetic markers persist in lineages and clades by common descent, but cannot otherwise spread in the populations.\n\nLenski chose to carry out the experiment with the bacteria grown in a glucose-limited minimal medium called DM25, which was initially developed by Bernard Davis for use in isolating auxotrophic mutants of \"E. coli\" using penicillin as a selective agent. DM25 is supplemented with a low concentration of glucose. Lenski chose this concentration to simplify analysis of the populations' evolution by reducing clonal interference, in which multiple versions of alleles are competing in an evolving population, while also reducing the possibility of the evolution of ecological interactions. This concentration of glucose used supports a maximum population of 500 million cells of the ancestor in a 10 mL culture, though the maximum now varies among the evolved populations. DM25 also contains a large amount of citrate (about 11 times the concentration of glucose), which was originally included by Davis because it improved the killing efficiency of penicillin during his experiments, though it is now known to aid in \"E. coli\"'s acquisition of iron from the medium.\n\nThe 12 populations are maintained in a incubator in Lenski's laboratory at Michigan State University. Each day, 1% of each population is transferred to a flask of fresh DM25 growth medium. The dilution means that each population experiences 6.64 generations, or doublings, each day. Large, representative samples of each population are frozen with glycerol as a cryoprotectant at 500-generation (75-day) intervals. The bacteria in these samples remain viable, and can be revived at any time. This collection of samples is referred to as the \"frozen fossil record\", and provides a history of the evolution of each population through the entire experiment. The populations are also regularly screened for changes in mean fitness, and supplemental experiments are regularly performed to study interesting developments in the populations. , the \"E. coli\" populations have been under study for over 64,500 generations, and are thought to have undergone enough spontaneous mutations that every possible single point mutation in the \"E. coli\" genome has occurred multiple times.\n\nThe strain of \"E. coli\" Lenski chose to use in the long-term evolution experiment was derived from \"strain Bc251\", as described in a 1966 paper by Seymour Lederberg, via Bruce Levin, who had used it in a bacterial ecology experiment in 1972. The defining genetics traits of this strain were: T6, Str, rm, Ara (unable to grow on arabinose). Lenski designated the original founding strain as REL606. Before the beginning of the experiment, Lenski isolated an Ara variant of the strain in which a point mutation in the \"ara\" operon had restored growth on arabinose, which he designated as strain REL607. When beginning the long-term evolution experiment, Lenski founded six populations with six individual Ara colonies of REL606. These populations are referred to as Ara-1 through Ara-6. Lenski also founded six more populations from six individual Ara colonies of REL607. These are referred to as populations Ara+1 through Ara+6. The marker differences permit strains to be differentiated on Tetrazolium Arabinose plates, on which Ara colonies appear red, while Ara colonies appear white to pink. Over the course of the experiment, each population has accumulated a large number of distinct mutations, which permit further means of identifying strains by their population of origin.\n\nMuch analysis of the experiment has dealt with how the fitness of the populations relative to their ancestral strain has changed. All populations showed a pattern of rapid increase in relative fitness during early generations, with this increase decelerating over time. By 20,000 generations the populations grew approximately 70% faster than the ancestral strain. This increase and deceleration in increase has continued in subsequent generations. A 2013 study by Wiser et al. reported ongoing improvement at 50,000 generations relative to samples isolated at 40,000 generations. They found that the fitness increase fit to a power law model much better than the hyperbolic models that had been used earlier. As a power law model describes an ever-slowing increase that has no upper limit, while a hyperbolic model implies a hard limit, the work suggested that the increase would continue without bound as progressively lower benefit mutations were fixed in the populations. Further work published in 2015 reported the results of over 1100 new fitness assays that examined fitness changes through 60,000 generations. The data once again fit the proposed power law model, and, indeed, fit within predictions of the model from earlier data. These results suggest that, contrary to previous thinking, adaptation and adaptive divergence can potentially increase indefinitely, even in a constant environment.\n\nOf the 12 populations, six have so far been reported to have developed defects in their ability to repair DNA, greatly increasing the rate of mutation in those strains. Although the bacteria in each population are thought to have generated hundreds of millions of mutations over the first 20,000 generations, Lenski has estimated that within this time frame, only 10 to 20 beneficial mutations achieved fixation in each population, with fewer than 100 total point mutations (including neutral mutations) reaching fixation in each population. In 2009, Barrick et al. reported the results of genome sequences from multiple time points in population Ara-1. They found that, unlike the declining rate of fitness improvement, mutation accumulation was linear and clock like, even though several lines of evidence suggested that much of the accumulation was beneficial, rather than neutral.\n\nAll twelve of the experimental populations show an increase in cell size concurrent with a decline in maximum population density, and in many of the populations, a more rounded cell shape. This change was partly the result of a mutation that changed the expression of a gene for a penicillin-binding protein, which allowed the mutant bacteria to outcompete ancestral bacteria under the conditions in the long-term evolution experiment. However, although this mutation increased fitness under these conditions, it also increased the bacteria's sensitivity to osmotic stress and decreased their ability to survive long periods in stationary phase cultures.\n\nOver the course of the experiment, the populations have evolved to specialize on the glucose resource on which they grow. This was first described in 2000, when Cooper and Lenski demonstrated that all populations had experienced decay of unused metabolic functions after 20,000 generations, restricting the range of substances on which the bacteria could grow. Their analysis suggested that this decay was due to antagonistic pleiotropy, in which mutations that improved ability to grow on glucose had reduced or eliminated the ability to grow on others substances. A later study by Leiby and Marx that used more advanced techniques showed that much of the decay Cooper and Lenski had identified were experimental artifacts, that loss of unused functions was not as extensive as first thought, and that some unused functions had improved. Moreover, they concluded that the metabolic losses were not due to antagonistic pleiotropy, but the neutral accumulation of mutations in unused portions of the genome, suggesting that adaptation to a simple environment might not necessarily lead to specialization.\n\nTwo distinct variants, S and L, were identified in the population designated Ara-2 at 18,000 generations based on their formation of small and large colonies, respectively. Clones of the S and L types could co-exist stably in co-culture with each other, indicating they occupied distinct niches in the population. This was verified by the finding that the L type had an advantage during growth on glucose, but that S had an advantage during stationary phase, after glucose had run out. The two types were found to have initially evolved prior to 6,000 generations, and then co-existed thereafter. Phylogenetic analysis of clones of the two types isolated from different generations demonstrated that the S and L types belonged to distinct, co-existing lineages in the population, and might be undergoing incipient speciation.\n\n\"E. coli\" is normally unable to grow aerobically on citrate due to the inability to express a citrate transporter when oxygen is present. However, \"E. coli\" has a complete citric acid cycle, and therefore metabolizes citrate as an intermediate during aerobic growth on other substances, including glucose. Most \"E. coli\" can grow anaerobically on citrate via fermentation, if a co-substrate such as glucose is available to provide reducing power. The anaerobic growth is possible due to the expression of a transmembrane citrate-succinate antiporter gene, \"citT\", which was first identified in 1998. This gene is co-regulated with other genes involved in citrate fermentation found on the \"cit\" operon, which is turned on only when oxygen is absent.\n\nThe inability to grow aerobically on citrate, referred to as a Cit phenotype, is considered a defining characteristic of \"E. coli\" as a species, and one that has been a valuable means of differentiating \"E. coli\" from pathogenic \"Salmonella\". While Cit strains of \"E. coli\" have been isolated from environmental and agricultural samples, in every such case, the trait was found to be due to the presence of a plasmid containing a foreign citrate transporter. A single, spontaneous Cit mutant of \"E. coli\" was reported by Hall in 1982. This mutant had been isolated during prolonged selection for growth on another novel substance in a growth broth that also contained citrate. Hall's genetic analysis indicated the underlying mutation was complex, but he was ultimately unable to identify the precise changes or genes involved, leading him to hypothesize activation of a cryptic transporter gene. The genome regions to which Hall was able to narrow down the locations of the changes do not correspond to the known location of the \"citT\" gene identified 16 years later, nor did the physiological characteristics in transport assays of Hall's Cit mutants match those to be expected for aerobic expression of the CitT transporter.\n\nIn 2008, Lenski's team, led by Zachary D. Blount, reported that the ability to grow aerobically on citrate had evolved in one population. Around generation 33,127, a dramatic increase in turbidity was observed in the population designated Ara-3. They found that the population contained clones that were able to grow aerobically on citrate (Cit). This metabolic capacity permitted the population to grow several-fold larger than it had previously, due to the large amount of citrate present in the medium. Examination of frozen fossil samples of the populations showed that Cit clones could be isolated as early as 31,500 generations. The Cit variants in the population were found to possess a number of genetic markers unique to the Ara-3 population, which excluded the possibility that they were contaminants, rather than spontaneous mutants. In a series of experiments that \"replayed\" the tape of Ara-3 evolution from Cit clones isolated from samples frozen at various time points in the population's history, they demonstrated that the ability to grow aerobically on citrate was more likely to re-evolve in a subset of genetically pure, evolved clones. In these experiments, they observed 19 new, independent instances of Cit re-evolution, but only when starting from clones isolated from after generation 20,000. Fluctuation tests showed that clones from this generation and later displayed a rate of mutation to the Cit trait was significantly higher than the ancestral rate. Even in these later clones, the rate of mutation to Cit was on the order of one occurrence per trillion cell divisions.\n\nLenski and his colleagues concluded that the evolution of the Cit function in this one population arose due to one or more earlier, possibly nonadaptive, \"potentiating\" mutations that increased the rate of mutation to an accessible level. The data suggested that citrate usage involved at least two mutations subsequent to these \"potentiating\" mutations. More generally, the authors suggest these results indicate, following the argument of Stephen Jay Gould, \"that historical contingency can have a profound and lasting impact\" on the course of evolution. These findings have come to be considered a significant instance of the impact of historical contingency on evolution.\n\nIn 2012, Lenski and his team reported the results of a genomic analysis of the Cit trait that shed light on the genetic basis and evolutionary history of the trait. The researchers had sequenced the entire genomes of twenty-nine clones isolated from various time points in the Ara-3 population's history. They used these sequences to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of the population, which showed that the population had diversified into three clades by 20,000 generations. The Cit variants had evolved in one of these, which they called Clade 3. Clones that had been found to be potentiated in earlier research were distributed among all three clades, but were over-represented in Clade 3. This led the researchers to conclude that there had been at least two potentiating mutations involved in Cit evolution.\n\nThe researchers also found that all Cit clones had mutations in which 2933 base pair segment of DNA was duplicated or amplified. The duplicated segment contained the gene for the citrate transporter protein used in anaerobic growth on citrate, \"citT\". The duplication is tandem, and resulted in copies that were head-to-tail with respect to each other. This new configuration placed a copy of the previously silent, unexpressed \"citT\" under the control of the adjacent \"rnk\" gene's promoter, which directs expression when oxygen is present. This new \"rnk-citT\" module produced a novel regulatory pattern for \"citT\", activating expression of the citrate transporter when oxygen was present, and thereby enabled aerobic growth on citrate.\n\nMovement of this \"rnk-citT\" module into the genome of a potentiated Cit clone was shown to be sufficient to produce a Cit phenotype. However, the initial Cit phenotype conferred by the duplication was very weak, and only granted a ~1% fitness benefit. The researchers found that the number of copies of the \"rnk-citT\" module had to be increased to strengthen the Cit trait sufficiently to permit the bacteria to grow well on the citrate. Further mutations after the Cit bacteria became dominant in the population continued to accumulate improved growth on citrate.\n\nThe researchers concluded that the evolution of the Cit trait occurred in three distinct phases in which mutations accumulated that increased the rate of mutation to Cit, the trait itself appeared in a weak form, and, finally, the trait was improved by later mutations. Blount et al. suggested that this pattern might be typical of how novel traits in general evolve, and proposed a three-step model of evolutionary innovation:\nThis model has seen acceptance in evolutionary biology. In 2015 paleontologist Douglas Erwin suggested a modification to a four-step model to better reflect a possible distinction between evolutionary novelty and evolutionary innovation, and to highlight the importance of environmental conditions: potentiation, generation of novel phenotypes (actualization), adaptive refinement, and exploitation (conversion of a novelty to an innovation as it becomes important for the ecological establishment of possessing organisms).\n\nIn 2014, a research team led by Eric Quandt in the lab of Jeffrey Barrick at the University of Texas at Austin described the application of a new technique called Recursive Genomewide Recombination and Sequencing (REGRES) to identify potentiating mutations among the 70 present in the Ara-3 lineage that evolved Cit. This method used multiple rounds of a process in which F plasmid based conjugation between a 33,000 generation Cit clone, CZB154, and the Cit founding clone of the LTEE to purge mutations not required for either manifestation of a weak or strong form of the Cit trait, which they refer to as Cit. They found that the \"rnk-citT\" module responsible for the phenotypic switch to Cit was sufficient to produce a weak Cit phenotype in the ancestor. They also identified a mutation that had occurred in the lineage leading to CZB154 after the initial evolution of Cit that conferred a strong, Cit phenotype in the ancestor absent any mutation but the \"rnk-citT\" module. This mutation, found in the regulatory region of a gene called \"dctA\", caused a massive increase in the expression of the DctA transporter, which functions to import C-dicarboxylates into the cell. This increased DctA expression, they found, permitted Cit cells to re-uptake succinate, malate, and fumarate released into the medium by the CitT transporter during import of citrate. They identified a similar mutation in Cit clones in the Ara-3 population that increased DctA expression by restoring function to a gene that regulates it, \"dcuS\", that had been deactivated in the ancestral clone. Quandt et al. concluded that the \"dctA\" mutation was not involved in potentiation, but refinement. This led them to suggest that evolution of Cit in the Ara-3 population might have been contingent upon a genetic background and population-specific ecology that permitted the early, weak Cit variants to persist in the population long enough for refining mutations to arise and render growth on citrate strong enough to provide a significant fitness benefit.\n\nQuandt and colleagues later published findings definitively identifying a mutation that did potentiate Cit evolution. This mutation was in the \"gltA\" gene, which encodes citrate synthase, an enzyme involved in the flow of carbon into the citric acid cycle. It had the effect of increasing citrate synthase activity, and they showed that it permitted improved growth on acetate. Moreover, with the \"gltA\" mutation, the \"rnk-citT\" module that causes the Cit trait has a neutral-to-slightly beneficial fitness effect, while, without it, the module was strongly detrimental. The \"gltA\" mutation therefore seems to have permitted early, weak Cit variants to persist in the population until later refining mutations could occur, consistent with their earlier conclusions. After a strong Cit phenotype evolved, the increased citrate synthase activity became detrimental. The researchers found that later mutations in \"gltA\" countered the first mutation, reducing citrate synthase activity, and further improving growth on citrate. They concluded that the series of mutation in \"gltA\" first potentiated, and then refined growth on citrate. They also suggested that the lineage in which Cit arose might have occupied a niche in Ara-3 based on growth on acetate, and that the potentiating mutations that led to evolution of Cit in Ara-3 were originally adaptive for acetate use.\n\nA small subpopulation of Cit cells unable to grow on citrate, and belonging to a separate clade persisted in the population after the Cit cells became dominant. Early findings showed that this diversity was partly due to the Cit cells being better at growing on the glucose in the medium. Turner et al. later found that another factor behind the coexistence was that the Cit cells evolved the ability to cross feed on the Cit majority. They showed that the Cit cells release succinate, malate, and fumarate during growth on citrate, as the CitT transporter pumps these substances out of the cell while pumping citrate into the cell. The Cit cells had rapidly evolved the ability to grow on these substances due to a mutation that restored expression of an appropriate transporter protein that was silent in the ancestor.\n\nThe Cit subpopulation eventually went extinct in the population between 43,500 and 44,000 generations. This extinction was shown to not be due to the Cit majority evolving to be able to invade the niche occupied by the Cit minority. Indeed, Cit clones could invade Cit populations from after the extinction event. Moreover, in an experiment in which they restarted twenty replicates of the Ara-3 population from the sample frozen 500 generations before the extinction, Turner et al. found that the Cit subpopulation had not gone extinct in any of the replicates after 500 generations of evolution. One of these replicates was continued for 2,500 generations, over which Cit continued to coexist. The researchers concluded that the extinction of Cit had been due to some unknown \"rare environmental perturbation\", similar to that which can impact natural populations. The final replicate was integrated into the main LTEE experiment, becoming the thirteenth population, Ara-7.\n\nOther researchers have experimented on evolving aerobic citrate-utilizing \"E. coli\". Dustin Van Hofwegen et al., working in the lab of Scott Minnich, were able to isolate 46 independent citrate-utilizing mutants of \"E. coli\" in just 12 to 100 generations using highly prolonged selection under starvation, during which the bacteria would sample more mutations more rapidly. In their research, the genomic DNA sequencing revealed an amplification of the \"citT\" and \"dctA\" loci, and rearrangement of DNA were the same class of mutations identified in the experiment by Richard Lenski and his team. They concluded that the rarity of the citrate-utilizing mutant in Lenski's research was likely a result of the selective experimental conditions used by his team rather than being a unique evolutionary speciation event.\n\nJohn Roth and Sophie Maisnier-Patin reviewed the approaches in both the Lenski team's delayed mutations and the Van Hofweges team's rapid mutations on \"E. coli\". They argue that both teams experienced the same sequence of potentiation, actualization, and refinement leading up to similar Cit variants. According to them, the period of less than a day during which citrate usage would be under selection, followed by 100-fold dilution, and a period of growth on glucose that would not select for citrate use, ultimately lowered the probability of \"E. coli\" being able accumulate early adaptive mutations from one period of selection to the next. On the other hand, Van Hofwegen's team allowed for a continuous selection period of 7 days, which yielded a more rapid development of citrate-using \"E. coli\". Roth and Maisnier-Patin suggest that the serial dilution of \"E. coli\" and short period of selection for citrate-use under the conditions of the LTEE perpetually impeded each generation of \"E. coli\" from reaching the next stages of aerobic citrate utilization.\n\nIn response, Blount and Lenski acknowledge that the problem is not with the experiments or the data, but with the interpretations made by Van Hofwegen et al. and Maisnier-Patin and Roth. Lenski notes that the rapid evolution of Cit was not necessarily unexpected since his team was also able to produce multiple Cit mutants in a few weeks during the replay experiments they reported in the 2008 paper in which his team first described the evolution of aerobic citrate use in the LTEE. Furthermore, Lenski criticizes Van Hofwegen et al.'s description of the initial evolution of Cit as a \"speciation event\" by pointing out that the LTEE was not designed to isolate citrate-using mutants or to deal with speciation since in their 2008 paper they said \"that becoming Cit was only a first step on the road to possible speciation\", and thus did not propose that the Cit mutants were a different species, but that speciation might be an eventual consequence of the trait's evolution. Lenski acknowledges that scientists, including him and his team, often use short hand and jargon when discussing speciation, instead of writing more carefully and precisely on the matter, and this can cause issues. However, he notes that speciation is generally considered by evolutionary biologists to be a process, and not an event. He also criticizes Van Hofwegen et al. and Roth and Maisnier-Patin for positing \"false dichotomies\" regarding the complex concept of historical contingency. He argues that historical contingency means that history matters, and that their 2008 paper presented data that showed that the evolution of Cit in the LTEE was contingent upon mutations that had accumulated earlier. He concludes that \"...historical contingency was invoked and demonstrated in a specific context, namely that of the emergence of Cit in the LTEE—it does not mean that the emergence of Cit is historically contingent in other experimental contexts, nor for that matter that other changes in the LTEE are historically contingent—in fact, some other evolved changes in the LTEE have been highly predictable and not (or at least not obviously) contingent on prior mutations in the populations.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35044268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35044268", "title": "Elena Oznobkina", "text": "Elena Oznobkina\n\nElena Oznobkina (Russian: Ознобкина, Елена Вячеславовна) was a philosopher, theorist, historian of philosophy, lecturer, translator, editor, journalist, researcher of penitentiary systems, and Russian human rights activist. She is best known as a researcher of modern Western philosophy, a translator and editor of translations of Nietzsche and Husserl into Russian, a critic of the Russian penitentiary system, and the editor of the Russian edition of Index on Censorship magazine.\n\nBorn in Moscow USSR, Oznobkina grew up in a family, whose parents were a government official and an agricultural scientist. She received a typical cultured middle-class upbringing. Oznobkina attended Moscow State University from 1977 to 1982, majoring in the history of Western philosophy. She defended her Specialist Diploma thesis, entitled \"The Unity of three Kant's Critiques\", in 1982. After graduation, Oznobkina worked as a lecturer/assistant professor at the Moscow Institute of Agricultural Engineers, and did research as a part-time graduate student at the Institute of Philosophy of the Academy of Sciences of USSR.\n\nShe defended her Candidate of Science Dissertation (equivalent of PhD. thesis), entitled \"Heidegger's Critique of Kant\", in 1987, and become a researcher at the Institute of Philosophy of the Academy of Sciences of USSR in 1988.\n\nShe worked at the Institute of Philosophy since 1988, first, as a researcher, at the section of Postclassic Western Philosophy, and afterwards, as a senior researcher, at the section of the section of Analytical Anthropology until her death, which followed after a long period of incurable disease, which limited her to her apartment in the last years of her life.\n\nAs it often happens in Russian philosophy, her thought found its expression not in monographs, but mostly in articles, university courses, interviews, and reviews. Although these are \"small forms\", they were no less influential, than many books. As well, her editorship legacy is very influential in ideological culture of modern Russia.\n\nIn 1982 Oznobkina started her academic career as Lecturer/Assistant Professor at the Moscow institute of Agricultural Engineers, where she delivered various courses on history of philosophy until 1987, when she became a full-time researcher.\nIn 1993–2002, she was an invited lecturer at the Russian State University for the Humanities and at State Academic University for the Humanities. She developed and taught such courses as: \"Introduction into Philosophical Anthropology\", \"Corporeality in Philosophy of Modernity\", \"Kant's Anthropology: Modern Revision\", \"Classic and Modern Philosophy of Punishment\", and others.\n\nIn a series of lectures for Russian State University for the Humanities, Oznobkina built an interpretation of Kant, which is in many ways opposite to the classic for modern Russia, Merab Mamardashvili's interpretation. She insists that Kant's philosophical experience is very \"aggressive\", and entails removal of many phenomena from the space of classic European philosophy, due to natural language limitation. Oznobkina states that comparison of Kant's logic and classic logic allows to discover borders of Kant's \"cultural utopia\", and causes of incongruency of his philocophical language.\n\nIn last 15 years, Oznobkina concentrated her research interests on the analytical critique of penitentiary system. She combined it with research on variegated aspects of the Russian and Soviet prison system, and the promotion of human rights of prisoners. She was one of editors of the Russian edition of the Index on Censorship magazine (from 1997 ).\n\nShe was also a prominent translator and editor of the modern Russian translations of works of Nietzsche and Husserl, as well as other Western philosophers.\n\nShe edited many important Russian books on philosophy and human rights.\n\nShe actively published in leading Russian literary magazines.\n\nStarting in 1992 Oznobkina became active in human rights movement. She participated in activities of the \"Glastnost Defence Foundation\", and the Committee for Public Investigation on Chechnya (since 1994).\n\nOznobkina was an avid philatelist, and published several articles in Russian philatelist magazines.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17796289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17796289", "title": "Equanimity", "text": "Equanimity\n\nEquanimity (Latin: \"æquanimitas\", having an even mind; \"aequus\" even; \"animus\" mind/soul) is a state of psychological stability and composure which is undisturbed by experience of or exposure to emotions, pain, or other phenomena that may cause others to lose the balance of their mind. The virtue and value of equanimity is extolled and advocated by a number of major religions and ancient philosophies.\nFrom Fr. \"équanimité\", from L. \"aequanimitatem\" (nom. \"aequanimitas\") \"evenness of mind, calmness,\" from \"aequus\" \"even, level\" (see equal) + \"animus\" \"mind, spirit\" (see animus). Meaning \"evenness of temper\" in English is from 1610s.\n\nIn Hinduism the term for equanimity is समत्व \"samatvam\" (also rendered \"samatva\" or \"samata\"). \n\nIn Chapter Two, Verse 48 of the \"Bhagavad Gita\" one reads: \"yoga-sthaḥ kuru karmāṇi saṅgaṁ tyaktvā dhanañ-jaya siddhy-asiddhyoḥ samo bhūtvā samatvaṁ yoga ucyate\". Srila Prabhupada translates this as: Perform your duty equipoised, O Arjuna, abandoning all attachment to success or failure. Such equanimity is called yoga.\nIn his book \"Samatvam - The Yoga of Equanimity\", Swami Sivananda states: \n\n\"An aspirant who treads the path to \"samatvam\" must make every effort to acquire the following essential qualities: \"Viveka\", discrimination; \"vairagya\", dispassion; \"shadsampat\", the six virtues (\"shama\", mental calmness and control; \"dama\", restraint of the senses; \"uparati\", sense withdrawal or \"pratyahara\"; \"titiksha\", endurance; \"shraddha\", faith and \"samadhana\", mental balance); and an intense desire for liberation, \"mumukshutva\". In order to possess the virtue of \"Samatvam\", he will also need to dedicate himself to steadying the mind every moment of his yoga career...\"\n\nAnother Sanskrit term for equanimity is \"upekṣhā\". This is the term used by Patanjali in his \"Yoga Sutras\" (1.33), Here \"upekṣhā\" is considered to be one of the four sublime attitudes, along with loving-kindness (\"maitri\"), compassion (\"karuṇā\"), and joy (\"mudita\"). It is related to the idea of Vairagya or \"dispassion\". The Upeksha Yoga school foregrounds equanimity as the most important tenet of a yoga practice.\n\nIn many Yoga traditions, the virtue of equanimity can be one of the results attained through regular meditation, combined with regular practice of pranayama, asanas and mental disciplines, which clear the mind and bring one inexorably toward a state of health and balance.\n\nEquanimity is a central concept in Stoic ethics and psychology. The Greek stoics use the word \"apatheia\" or \"ataraxia\" whereas the Roman stoics used the Latin word \"aequanimitas\". The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's \"Meditations\" detail a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration. His adoptive father Antoninus Pius's last word was uttered when the tribune of the night-watch came to ask him for the night's password — Pius decided upon \"aequanimitas\" (equanimity). \n\nIn Pyrrhonism the term used for equanimity is \"ataraxia\", which means to be unperturbed. Ataraxia the goal of Pyrrhonist practice. \n\nIn Buddhism, equanimity (\"upekkhā\", \"upekṣhā\") is one of the four sublime attitudes and is considered:\n\nEquanimity can also be cultivated through meditation\n\nMany Jewish thinkers highlight the importance of equanimity (Menuhat ha-Nefesh or Yishuv ha-Da'at) as a necessary foundation for moral and spiritual development. The virtue of equanimity receives particular attention in the writings of rabbis such as Rabbi Yisroel Bal Shem Tov and Rabbi Simcha Zissel Ziv.\n\nSamuel Johnson defined equanimity as \"evenness of mind, neither elated nor depressed.\" In Christian philosophy, equanimity is considered essential for carrying out the theological virtues of gentleness, contentment, temperance, and charity.\n\nThe word “Islam” is derived from the Arabic word \"aslama\", which denotes the peace that comes from total surrender and acceptance. A Muslim may experientially behold that everything happening is meant to be, and stems from the ultimate wisdom of God; hence, being a Muslim can therefore be understood to mean that one is in a state of equanimity.\n\nThe voluminous Writings of the Baha'i Faith are filled with thousands of references to divine attributes, of which equanimity is one. Similar in intent and more frequently used than \"equanimity\" in the Baha'i Writings are \"detachment\" and \"selflessness\" which dispose human beings to free themselves from inordinate reactions to the changes and chances of the world. Humanity is called upon to show complete and sublime detachment from aught else but God, from all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth, from the material world and from the promptings of their own interests and passions. Related concepts include faith, the concept of growing through suffering and being tested, fortitude under trials, dignity, patience, prudence, moderation, freedom from material things, radiant acquiescence, wisdom and evanescence. Baha'u'llah, the Central Personage of the Baha'i Faith, wrote: \"Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living God may then shine forth. The martyr’s field is the place of detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity may be upraised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours; and once ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will find, gathered within your shadow, all created things. This is boundless grace; this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss.\"\n\nThe highly revered Son of Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha, was an exile and prisoner along with His Father, for more than forty years facing a torrent of various hardships. It is written about him: \"So imperturbable was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s equanimity that, while rumors were being bruited about that He might be cast into the sea, or exiled to Fizán in Tripolitania, or hanged on the gallows, He, to the amazement of His friends and the amusement of His enemies, was to be seen planting trees and vines in the garden of His house, whose fruits when the storm had blown over, He would bid His faithful gardener, Ismá’íl Áqá, pluck and present to those same friends and enemies on the occasion of their visits to Him.\" When in London He was asked about His time in prison and said: \"Freedom is not a matter of place. It is a condition. I was thankful for the prison, and the lack of liberty was very pleasing to me, for those days were passed in the path of service, under the utmost difficulties and trials, bearing fruits and results...Unless one accepts dire vicissitudes, he will not attain...When one is released from the prison of self, that is indeed release, for that is the greater prison...The afflictions which come to humanity sometimes tend to centre the consciousness upon the limitations, and this is a veritable prison. Release comes by making of the will a Door through which the confirmations of the Spirit come.\" Asked about this He said: The confirmations of the Spirit are all those powers and gifts which some are born with (and which men sometimes call genius), but for which others have to strive with infinite pains. They come to that man or woman who accepts his life with radiant acquiescence. Radiant acquiescence—that was the quality with which we all suddenly seemed inspired as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bade us good-bye.\"\n\nThe following quote by 'Abdu'l-Baha offers a perspective aimed at cultivating equanimity. He wrote: \"Grieve thou not over the troubles and hardships of this nether world, nor be thou glad in times of ease and comfort, for both shall pass away. This present life is even as a swelling wave, or a mirage, or drifting shadows. Could ever a distorted image on the desert serve as refreshing waters? No, by the Lord of Lords! Never can reality and the mere semblance of reality be one, and wide is the difference between fancy and fact, between truth and the phantom thereof. Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A shadow hath no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy, and nothing more; it is but images reflected in water, and seeming as pictures to the eye. Rely upon God. Trust in Him. Praise Him, and call Him continually to mind. He verily turneth trouble into ease, and sorrow into solace, and toil into utter peace. He verily hath dominion over all things. If thou wouldst hearken to my words, release thyself from the fetters of whatsoever cometh to pass. Nay rather, under all conditions thank thou thy loving Lord, and yield up thine affairs unto His Will that worketh as He pleaseth. This verily is better for thee than all else, in either world.\" \n"}
{"id": "1682929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1682929", "title": "Erwin Neutzsky-Wulff", "text": "Erwin Neutzsky-Wulff\n\nErwin Neutzsky-Wulff (born 24 November 1949) is a Danish author and philosopher who has published within the genres of science fiction, science, horror, prose and non-fiction.\n\nNeutzsky-Wulff is the son of Aage Neutzsky-Wulff (1891–1967). His half-sister Vita Andersen is known for her poetry and fiction.\n\nNeutzsky-Wulff attended courses in philosophy at the University of Copenhagen, but broke off his studies after his first year. Having lived in Copenhagen all of his life, he moved into an abandoned school in Vinstrup north of Randers with his wife, where he presently spends his time expanding his authorship. He occasionally holds courses on themes drawn from extensive interests.\n\nNeutzsky-Wulff has written in both fiction and non-fiction, on subjects as diverse as history, philosophy, cognition, religion, the occult, psychology and horror fiction. He also authored a number of books on computer programming during the 1980s. He is mainly self-taught and has mastered several languages, including Hebrew, Latin, German, French, English and the Nordic languages.\n\nNeutzsky-Wulff keeps in touch with his readers through his fan magazine \"Bathos\" and his official home page. \"Bathos\", in addition to offering reviews of mainly old horror films, also contains in-depth articles on philosophy, religion, culture and various esoteric subjects. In addition, the magazine expounds on the author's philosophy and on various themes in his literature.\n\nIn his earliest published literature, Erwin Neutzsky-Wulff builds up his own literary universe. The \"Dialog om det 21. århundredes to vigtigste verdenssystemer\", (1971), is a philosophical dialogue modelled on the classical style of Galileo Galilei's Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems. The plot is set in a not too distant future, where a Danish civil war has broken out. The reader is witnessing a debate between three persons, one representing a new humanistic view on mankind and its new ideology (or anti-ideology), called \"Wulffianism\". \"Wulffianism\" is anarchic in the word's real sense, entailing an accept of violence as a mean and denial of modern civilization. This, as expected, caused severe public controversy. Other books from this early period of the authorship are anthologies of essays and poems, and mainly appear as supplements to the mentioned dialogues. All of Neutzsky-Wulff's poetry is in rhyme, metrical with a touch of subtle pastiche.\n\nWith the episodic novel \"Adam Harts Opdagelser\" <5> (1972), Neutzsky-Wulff began to find his style and obtained henceforth crowds of fans. The book's protagonists are Adam Hart and his partner Victor Janis, both working as \"occult detectives\". An ironically rendered Neutzsky-Wulff himself also appears in a more secondary role. The series continues with the episodic \"Adam Hart og sjælemaskinen\" <6> (1977) \"Victor Janis og søn\" <7> (1977), both representing a more conventional novel structure, and ends with an experimental novel, \"Oiufael\" (1977), mainly written on verse. An episode from \"Adam Hart og sjælemaskinen\" was adapted as the short film \"Adam Hart i Sahara\" (1990), based on his own screenplay.\n\nThough sometimes he breaks the traditional conventions of the genre, Neutzsky-Wulff sees himself as an author of science fiction. He emphasizes the genre as the most prominent stage of artistic interpretations of the mythology of our time. \"Anno Domini\" (1975) tells the story of an astronaut on a strange planet, experiencing a macrohistorical version of the evolution of humankind. In \"Gud\" <8> (1976), the classical form of science fiction itself, is challenged: A group of people are, by means of an alien vessel, heading towards the planet of God. With \"Den 33. marts\" <9> (1977), the plot is altered from \"outer\" to \"inner space\", a platform resembling that of an American author of science fiction, Philip K. Dick. A person living in the 1970s Copenhagen discovers effects of society as mere stage equipment. Library books are empty and he is trapped within city borders. In a sanitarium, this person \"hallucinates\" about another world where he features as an awaited Messiah. \"Havet\" <10> (1978) is, like \"Anno Domini\" and \"Gud\", a novel about space travel. The supernatural setting pivots around the cards of Tarok. In \"Menneske\" <11> (1982), a computer independently achieves consciousness and decides to find out what existence as a human being is like. Consequently, it embarks on a stone age odyssey, following the history of man, ending in a parody of the 1970s of Denmark.\n\nErwin Neutzsky-Wulff describes by novel form esoteric initiation and demonic possession in \"Indsigtens sted\" <12> (1980). The narration is set through a schoolteacher's diary as he is experiencing increasingly interest in the occult. This is an effective horror story which distinguishes itself from his other books. For Neutzsky-Wulff, the eighties were to stand under the parole of prose. Neutzsky-Wulff had taught himself computer programming and when the first home computers entered the market, he published an introductory manual, \"Mikrodatamaten – Programmering og anvendelse\" (1982), followed by several similar guides the following years. At the time, computer programming was still seen as an intellectual pursuit in a rather anti-intellectual climate.\n\nHis prosaic studies of the supernatural followed with \"Okkultisme\" <13> (1985) and \"Magi\" <14> (1986). \"Okkultisme\" raises its groundwork from epistemology, modern physics and neurology, as well as interpretations of visionary lyrics, for instance William Blake's. The book's second part gives an historical briefing on the history of religions, from tribal religion through Judaism and Christianity, to Satanism. \"Satanism\" is in Neutzsky-Wulff's authorship used partly as a common denominator of a quite specific group, and partly as a philosophical term for the ideology of modern society. This ideology is, as explained, essentially anti-Christian.\n\n\"Magi\" treats themes such as the supernatural, its practice, supernatural experiences and the citizens of the world beyond ours. Our present day civilization is depicted evil to an extent that hatred is given as the primary human condition (p. 222). \"Magi\" was followed by \"Oprindelse\" <15> (1988), the first and only volume of an abortive world history, covering a time line from the Big Bang until app. 2700 BC.\n\n\"Faust\", (1989) resembles, by structure and form, to a certain point the earlier \"Den 33. marts\". Neutzsky-Wulff's modern Faust is not a theologian, but rather a psychoanalyst who defies his discipline. On 20 August 1989, Erwin Neutzsky-Wulff preached at , a church in central Copenhagen, declaring that Christianity had come to an end.\n\nIn Neutzsky-Wulff's authorship the traditional novel form now appears to be cracking, as his novels grow in size and are thoroughly embedded with several subplots parallel to the main story. Furthermore, they attain a more objective form and prosaic essence, which provides his ontological platform with deeper insights. Also the author himself becomes omnipresent, frequently either commenting on fictional actions or directly addressing the reader. 2000 (1991) is a science fictional Decameron, where a handful of persons are isolated and share information between themselves. Around them, civilization deteriorates and a brand new kind of human is born. In the epic \"Verden\" <16> (1994), Neutzsky-Wulff includes time travels and similar phenomena, as he tries to delete Christ from history. Døden <17> (1996), distinguishes itself from other novels by its political main theme, especially the 1990s' emerging chauvinist and neofascist tendencies. This novel attracted public spotlights, as the dissolution of the journal Faklen caused a public dispute between its editors. Neutzsky-Wulff himself added yet another creation to his authorship with \"UFO\" (1999). \"UFO\" enhances his science fiction-novels of the 70s by reviewing the occult and mythological foundations of the UFO-phenomenon. In between his novel writing, Neutzsky-Wulff translated Genesis, which was published as \"For længe siden\" <19> (2000). In his \"Abattoir\" <20> (2003), he returns to his lighter style, reminiscent of the Adam Hart series.\n\nTranscendent ambitions forges the massive arguments appearing in Rum <21> (2001), his greatest fictional work to date, and the prose work \"Det overnaturlige\" <22> (2004) expounding on the essence and forms of religious experience and reality itself, treating much the same topics as the earlier \"Okkultisme\" and \"Magi\", only now in much more depth. These parallel works fulfil these ambitions fully from two different holds.\n\nThe heavy \"Rum\" is illustrated with a deliberate \"bad taste\" by Jørgen Bitsch. The plot is set in separated rooms: A girl selling herself as a sex slave, a man in a bunker after a nuclear war, an expedition to an alien planet, a haunted house investigator and finally, a poet not knowing he is an inspirational source for a mass murderer. These rooms can be thought of as interlinked: They are books read by the man in the bunker or visions seen by the slave girl etc. Neutzsky-Wulff and his wife also appear. Later, the characters exchange locations. Reality constrains itself to self-created rooms and the apparently incoherent action is deliberately supposed to influence the reader to assume a magical way of thinking. It is an abyssal book, hardly fully comprehensible by any but a few.\n\nThe prose \"Det overnaturlige\", more or less exact than \"Okkultisme\" and \"Magi\", is at the same time meant to displace them by writing a modern grimoire. It is information-dense, cut to the bone and indirectly demands that the reader study a number of texts only referred to in the book to properly understand it. The book describes the mystic initiation, a radical practice requiring women to be sexually enslaved (as in \"Rum\"), whereas men have to undergo a kind of virtual castration. Themes as diverse as kabbalah, the mystic traditions of the Holy Grail, Gnosticism, fairy tales, Mozart's The Magic Flute and Wagner are treated in depth.\n\nNeutzsky-Wulff's books are quite unlike most contemporary Danish literature and can read like the texts of a strange, foreign religion at times. Time has shown that critics have a tendency to either praise them wholeheartedly or else distance themselves from them.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAnders Westenholz, another Danish writer of fantastic literature for mature readers.\n\n"}
{"id": "22695093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22695093", "title": "Federal Ethics Committee on Non-Human Biotechnology", "text": "Federal Ethics Committee on Non-Human Biotechnology\n\nUnder article 23 of the Gene Technology Act, the Swiss Federal Ethics Committee on Non-Human Biotechnology (ECNH) is an extra-parliamentary advisory committee, appointed to advise the Federal Council and the federal and cantonal authorities on matters of regulations and enforcement of legislation in the field of non-human biotechnology. The Federal Council established the ECNH by decree on 27 April 1998. It is administratively attached to the Federal Office for the Environment in the Department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications.\n\nThe ECNH monitors and evaluates developments in and applications of non-human biotechnology and comments from an ethical perspective on the scientific and social questions arising in this connection. It advises\nIt collaborates with other federal and cantonal committees concerned with questions of biotechnology.\nIt engages in a dialogue with the public on ethical issues associated with biotechnology. It reports to the Federal Council periodically on its activities.\n\nThe ECNH consists of 12 members from a range of disciplines, either specialists in ethics or coming from other fields but with a scientific or practical knowledge of ethics. Various ethical approaches also need to be represented in a balanced manner.\n\nThe members of the Committee are appointed by the Federal Council for a term of 4 years.\n\n\nThe Committee is assisted by a scientific secretariat, which reports to the Chair of the Committee and is administratively attached to the Federal Office for the Environment (FOEN).\n\n\nExpert reports commissioned by the ECNH which are of interest to a wider audience are published (in the original language) in a series entitled „Beiträge zur Ethik und Biotechnologie“ (Contributions to Ethics and Biotechnology). These reports provide a basis for consideration of the ethical aspects of biotechnology and serve as working papers for the ECNH.\n\nIn October 2008, the ECNH was awarded the Ig Nobel Prize for the publication of \"The dignity of living beings with regard to plants - Moral consideration of plants for their own sake\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4488653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488653", "title": "Five Virtues", "text": "Five Virtues\n\nIn Sikhism, the Five Virtues are fundamental qualities which one should develop in order to reach Mukti, or to reunite or merge with God. The Sikh Gurus taught that these positive human qualities were Sat (truth), Daya (compassion), Santokh (contentment), Nimrata (humility), and Pyaar (love).\n\nSat is the virtue of truthful living, which means practising \"righteousness, honesty, justice, impartiality and fair play.\"\n\nSantokh, or contentment, is freedom \"from ambition, envy, greed and jealousy. Without contentment, it is impossible to acquire peace of mind.\"\n\nThe exercise of Daya, or compassion, involves \"considering another's difficulty or sorrow as one's own and helping to relieve it as far as possible. Compassion also includes the overlooking of imperfections and mistakes of others, for to err is human.\"\n\nNimrata, translated as \"humility\", \"benevolence\" or \"humbleness\", is the fourth virtue.\n\nPyaar requires Sikhs to be filled with the love of God.\n"}
{"id": "47588550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47588550", "title": "George C. Christie", "text": "George C. Christie\n\nGeorge C. Christie (born March 3, 1934) is the James B. Duke Emeritus Professor of Law at Duke University School of Law in Durham, North Carolina, where he taught jurisprudence and tort law before retiring from teaching in 2013.\n\nChristie was born in New York City in 1934. His father, himself a lawyer, emigrated from Greece to the United States in 1920. He was awarded his A.B. in 1955 and his J.D. in 1957, both from Columbia University. While at Columbia he was editor-in-chief of the Columbia Law Review. In 1962 he was granted a Diploma in International Law from Cambridge University. Later, in 1966 he received S.J.D. from Harvard University.\n\nChristie was admitted to the bar in New York in 1957 and in the District of Columbia in 1958. He spent two years in private practice in Washington D.C. and from 1960-1961 he was a Ford Fellow at Harvard Law School. From 1961-1962 he was a Fulbright Scholar at Cambridge University. Following his time at Cambridge he became a member of the faculty at University of Minnesota Law School. In 1966 he left the University of Minnesota and returned to Washington D.C. where he served as the Assistant General Counsel for the Near East and South Asia of the Agency for International Development.\n\nHe has been on the faculty of Duke University School of Law since 1967.\n\nHe received an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Athens in 2007.\n\nChristie influenced the Duke University academic governance through the so-called \"Christie Rule\", recommended by a committee he was chairing in 1972. The rule aims to guarantee that the voice of the faculty be heard prior to the Board of Trustees reaching significant decisions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10789083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10789083", "title": "Goddess Remembered", "text": "Goddess Remembered\n\nGoddess Remembered is a 1989 Canadian documentary on the Goddess movement and feminist theories surrounding Goddess worship in Old European culture according to Marija Gimbutas, and Merlin Stone's \"When God Was a Woman\".\n\nThis poetic documentary is a salute to 35 000 years of \"pre-history,\" to the values of ancestors only recently remembered, and to the goddess-worshipping religions of the ancient past. Goddess Remembered features Merlin Stone, Carol Christ, Luisah Teish, Starhawk, Charlene Spretnak, and Jean Shinoda Bolen, who link the loss of goddess-centred societies with today's environmental crisis. They propose a return to the belief in an interconnected life system, with respect for the earth and the female, as fundamental to our survival.\n\n\"Goddess Remembered\" is the first film in the National Film Board of Canada's \"Women and Spirituality\" series, followed by \"The Burning Times\".\n\nThe main theme of the film, composed by Loreena McKennitt, was released as the track \"Ancient Pines\" on her album \"Parallel Dreams\".\n"}
{"id": "834596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=834596", "title": "Henry of Ghent", "text": "Henry of Ghent\n\nHenry of Ghent (c. 1217 – 29 June 1293) was a scholastic philosopher, known as Doctor Solemnis (the \"Solemn Doctor\"), and also as Henricus de Gandavo and Henricus Gandavensis.\n\nHenry was born in the district of Mude, near Ghent. He is supposed to have belonged to an Italian family named Bonicolli, in Dutch \"Goethals\", but the question of his name has been much discussed (see authorities below). He studied at Ghent and then at Cologne under Albertus Magnus. After obtaining the degree of doctor he returned to Ghent, and is said to have been the first to lecture there publicly on philosophy and theology.\n\nAttracted to Paris by the fame of the university, he took part in the many disputes between the orders and the secular priests, on the side of the latter. While Henry was a regent master at the University of Paris, the Condemnations of 1277 took place. The bishop of Paris, Stephen Tempier, promulgated a condemnation of some 219 propositions put forth by the masters of the Faculty of Theology. Henry had a hand in the creation of these propositions and because of that he was summoned to the papal legate after a fellow Augustinian, Giles of Rome. The summons was supposed to change Henry's mind concerning Thomas Aquinas and his unicity thesis (which stated that the human soul, the substantial form of the body, is the undivided principle of the individual's life, sensitivity and rationality). Following the publication of the papal bull \"Ad fructus uberes\" by Pope Martin IV in 1281, Henry supported the secular clergy against the Mendicant Orders over the question of the 'reiteration of confession' (the obligation to confess to their parish priest, at least once a year, sins already confessed to a friar). Henry was engaged in this violent controversy for the rest of his life. He died at Tournai (or Paris).\n\nHenry argued that not only do individual creatures have a being corresponding to their essence - the being of essence or \"esse essentiae\", they also have a 'somethingness' (\"aliquitas\"). The being created by God is not the being of actual existence, but the being of essence, also called \"esse latissimum\" (being in the widest sense), or \"esse communissimum\", the most general form of being. The determination of essence respecting its being made actual is a delimitation, or specification, of that being. Thus, \"esse essentiae\" comes first, then comes \"esse aliquid per essentiam\", being a \"something\" through essence, finally the whole essence thus made up is put into actuality.\n\nAn intentional distinction is where the very same thing is expressed by different concepts in different ways (\"Quodl\". V, q. 12). Unlike a purely logical distinction, an intentional distinction always implies a sort of composition, although it is minor with regard to that implied by a distinction in reality.\n\nFor example, \"rational\" and \"animal\", as they are found in man, is not a distinction of reason, since one is not a definition of the other. Nor is a real distinction, otherwise the conjunction of 'animal' and 'rational' in some particular person would be purely accidental (\"per accidens\"). Therefore, there must be some intermediate distinction, which Henry defines as 'intentional'. This principle was later developed by Scotus into the formal distinction.\n\nHenry's doctrines are infused by a strong Platonism. He distinguished between knowledge of actual objects and the divine inspiration by which we cognize the being and existence of God. The first throws no light upon the second. Individuals are constituted not by the material element but by their independent existence, i.e. ultimately by the fact that they are created as separate entities. Universals must be distinguished according as they have reference to our minds or to the divine mind. In the divine intelligence exist exemplars or types of the genera and species of natural objects.\n\nOn this subject Henry is far from clear; but he defends Plato against the current Aristotelian criticism, and endeavours to show that the two views are in harmony. In psychology, his view of the intimate union of soul and body is remarkable. The body he regards as forming part of the substance of the soul, which through this union is more perfect and complete.\n\nHenry's standards for truth exceeded what is now commonly accepted in science. Following closely Aristotle's \"Posterior Analytics\", he demanded that \"First, it must be certain, i.e. exclusive of deception and doubt; secondly, it must be of a necessary object; thirdly, it must be produced by a cause that is evident to the intellect; fourthly, it must be applied to the object by a syllogistic reasoning process\". He thus excluded from the realm of the knowable anything about contingent objects. In this respect he was contradicted by his younger contemporary Duns Scotus.\n\nWorks by Henry of Ghent include:\nA work \"mistakenly\" attributed to Henry of Ghent is the Affligem \"Catalogus virorum illustrium\", first published in \"De scriptoribus ecclesiasticis\" (ed. Suffridus Petri) (Cologne, 1580).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430638", "title": "Hexspeak", "text": "Hexspeak\n\nHexspeak, like leetspeak, is a novelty form of variant English spelling using the hexadecimal digits. Created by programmers as memorable magic numbers, hexspeak words can serve as a clear and unique identifier with which to mark memory or data.\n\nHexadecimal notation represents numbers using the 16 digits 0123456789ABCDEF. Using only the letters ABCDEF it is possible to spell several words. Further words can be made by treating some of the decimal numbers as letters - the digit \"0\" can represent the letter \"O\", and \"1\" can represent the letters \"I\" or \"L\". Less commonly, \"5\" can represent \"S\", \"7\" represent \"T\", \"12\" represent \"R\" and \"6\" or \"9\" can represent \"G\" or \"g\", respectively. Numbers such as 2, 4 or 8 can be used in a manner similar to leet or rebuses; e.g. the word \"defecate\" can be expressed either as DEFECA7E or DEFEC8.\n\nMany computer processors, operating systems, and debuggers make use of magic numbers, especially as a magic debug value.\n\nMany computer languages require that a hexadecimal number be marked with a prefix or suffix (or both) to identify it as a number. Sometimes the prefix or suffix is used as part of the word.\n\nIn reverse engineering aspects of the Sony PlayStation 3, a number of hexspeak codes were found to either trigger, effect or were present in aspects of communicating to and through the PlayStation 3 Hypervisor in communication to its GPU, the RSX Reality Synthesizer.\n\nThese projects were largely born out of PS3 homebrew operating on the PS3's OtherOS which allowed Linux to be installed, initially with extremely limited GPU access.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27413662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27413662", "title": "History of Early Analytic Philosophy Society", "text": "History of Early Analytic Philosophy Society\n\nThe History of Early Analytic Philosophy Society (HEAPS) is a philosophical society founded to study early analytic philosophy. The society examines the work of Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Frank P. Ramsey, G. E. Moore,and other early contributors to the field. The Society sponsors conference sessions in conjunction with the American Philosophical Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "1049044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1049044", "title": "Honkyoku", "text": "Honkyoku\n\nHonkyoku (本曲, \"original pieces\") are the pieces of shakuhachi music played by mendicant Japanese Zen monks called komusō. Komusō played honkyoku for enlightenment and alms as early as the 13th century. Honkyoku is part of the practice of suizen (吹禅, \"blowing Zen\"). The Fuke sect which originated from this practice ceased to exist in the 19th century, after which several shakuhachi guilds were formed, and the verbal and written lineage of many honkyoku continues today, though the music is now often practised in a concert or performance setting.\n\nThere are many ryū 流, or schools, of honkyoku, each with their own style, emphasis, and teaching methods.\n\n\"Motion in \"honkyoku\" is significantly static, precisely because of the dominance of the sacred purpose and function, and to a certain extent, it is also subject to breathing meditation, the principle of the \"suidan - \"the phrase of one full breath - thus a form of breathing exercise.\"\n\nIn the 18th century, a komusō named Kinko Kurosawa of the Fuke sect of Zen Buddhism was commissioned to travel Japan and collect these musical pieces. Although it is commonly thought that the 36 pieces of the Kinko Ryū Honkyoku repertoire were collected and played by Kinko Kurosawa, these pieces were significantly changed and codified by later generations, including Miura Kindo and others.\n\n\nAt least three additional pieces were later added to the Kinko-Ryu repertoire:\n\n\nOther notable Honkyoku schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "19940721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19940721", "title": "Hsiang-yen Chih-hsien", "text": "Hsiang-yen Chih-hsien\n\nHsiang-yen Chih-hsien 香嚴(or 香巖)智閑 (Hànyǔ Pīnyīn: Xiāngyán Zhìxián; Rōmaji: Kyōgen Chikan, \"c\". 820–898) was a T'ang dynasty Ch'an master of the House of Kuei-yang. A Dharma heir of Kuei-shan Ling-yu 溈山靈祐 (Hànyǔ Pīnyīn: Wéishān Língyòu; Rōmaji: Isan Reiyū, 771–853), the story of Hsiang-yen's enlightenment is rather famous in the Zen tradition. According to his enlightenment story, he had been an accomplished scholar of Buddhist \"sūtra\"s, but for many years had made very little headway in his meditation practice. One day, his master asked him what his original face was before birth, to which he could not respond—this question became his \"kōan\", and he subsequently burned his \"sūtra\"s and set out to settle the matter. One day, while working, he heard the sound of a tile striking the ground and attained enlightenment.\n\nAdditionally, there is a \"kōan\" attributed to Hsiang-yen in \"The Gateless Gate\": the story is that of a man hanging in a tree by his teeth being asked why Bodhidharma came west; how the man is to react became this famous \"kōan\".\n"}
{"id": "23123693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23123693", "title": "Iasos (musician)", "text": "Iasos (musician)\n\nIasos (born 1947 in Greece), an American resident since 1951, he is a new age musician living in the San Francisco Bay Area of California. He is one of the earliest creators of the \"new age\" genre. His company, Inter-Dimensional Music, is based in Sausalito, California. The psychology department at Plymouth State College rated his \"Angelic Music\" album as being closest to the music heard by people who have had Near-death experiences. The Buddhist philosopher Alan Watts has said \"Iasos is doing the classical music of the New Age.\" Guitarist Lee Underwood has said \"\"Angelic Music\"...perhaps exemplif(ies) the best this genre has to offer.\"\n\nHe began studying piano at age 8, with formal music education through high school. In 1967, he began to \"hear\" music, which he referred to as \"paradise music.\" He moved to California in 1968, to work on creating this music. In 1975, he released his first album, \"Inter-Dimensional Music Through Iasos,\" the same year his friend and colleague Steven Halpern released his first album, thus being an early pioneer in the \"new age music\" genre. In 1982, Iasos produced one of the first New Age videos, \"Crystal Vista. \"In 1989, the psychology department of Plymouth State College in New Hampshire conducted research with people who had had near-death experiences. The conclusion of the research was that Iasos' music received the highest rating for being most like the music people heard while in their near death state. Iasos has performed and lectured internationally, and his music is distributed worldwide. His music has been used by NASA and the Laserium laser light show.\n\n\nFULL DISCOGRAPHY available at: http://iasos.com/bioresum/#Discography\n\n"}
{"id": "31898279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31898279", "title": "If Women Counted", "text": "If Women Counted\n\nIf Women Counted (1988) by Marilyn Waring, former New Zealand Member of Parliament, is a book in academic feminism, political economy and feminist economics. The book is a groundbreaking and systematic critique of the system of national accounts, the international standard of measuring economic growth, and the ways in which women's unpaid work as well as the value of Nature have been excluded from what counts as productive in the economy.\n\nThe book \"persuaded the United Nations to redefine gross domestic product, inspired new accounting methods in dozens of countries, and became the founding document of the discipline of feminist economics.\" A widely cited book, it made the analysis of this topic known to a large audience.\n\nAccording to Julie A. Nelson, \n\nThe noted economist John Kenneth Galbraith called \"If Women Counted\" \"a splendid work... no concerned man or woman can ignore it.\"\n\n\"Counting on Marilyn Waring: New Advances in Feminist Economics\", an anthology edited by Margunn Bjørnholt and Ailsa McKay, was published in 2014, with contributions by a diverse group of scholars on recent advances in the field of feminist economics. It was described by economist Alison Preston as \"a timely reminder of the politics and economics underpinning what, how and by whom activities and outputs are valued. For those concerned with social justice and sustainable futures this important and powerful book provides an invaluable and practical insight into issues that are in need of greater visibility.\" According to the magazine \"\", the book explores \"a wide range of issues—including the fundamental meaning of economic growth and activity to consumption, health care, mortality, unpaid household work, mothering, education, nutrition, equality, and sustainability\" and reveals \"the breadth, depth, and substance that can grow from innovative ideas and critical analysis.\" Diane Elson argues that \"despite many valiant efforts, women do not as yet really count in the conduct of economic policy. This book is an imaginative contribution to an ongoing struggle.\" In a review in \"Feminist Economics\", Patricia E. Perkins calls the book \"a joy to read and a revelation\", and \"a fitting culmination of [McKay's] lifelong work using economics to advance equity for women.\"\n\nOriginally published by Harper & Row as \"If Women Counted\" with an introduction by Gloria Steinem in 1988, it has since also been published by Macmillan under the same title, and by Allen & Unwin and University of Toronto Press as \"Counting for Nothing\". The book remains most widely known under the title \"If Women Counted\" and has been translated into several languages.\n\nAt the time she wrote the book, Waring was a visiting fellow at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.\n\n"}
{"id": "6763615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763615", "title": "Irrealism (philosophy)", "text": "Irrealism (philosophy)\n\nIrrealism is a philosophical position first advanced by Nelson Goodman in \"Ways of Worldmaking\", encompassing epistemology, metaphysics, and aesthetics.\n\nIrrealism was initially motivated by the debate between phenomenalism and physicalism in epistemology. Rather than viewing either as prior to the other, Goodman described them both as alternative \"world-versions\", both useful in some circumstances, but neither capable of capturing the other in an entirely satisfactory way, a point he emphasizes with examples from psychology. He goes on to extend this epistemic pluralism to all areas of knowledge, from equivalent formal systems in mathematics (sometimes it is useful to think of points as primitives, sometimes it is more useful to consider lines the primitive) to alternative schools of art (for some paintings thinking in terms of representational accuracy is the most useful way of considering them, for others it is not). However, in line with his consideration of phenomenalism and physicalism, Goodman goes beyond saying merely that these are \"world-versions\" of \"the\" world, instead he describes worlds as \"made by making such versions\".\n\nMetaphysically, Goodman's irrealism is distinct from anti-realism though the two concepts are frequently confused. \"We are not speaking in terms of multiple possible alternatives to a single actual world but of multiple actual worlds.\" He makes no assertions regarding \"the way the world is\" and that there is no primary world version i.e. \"no true version compatible with all true versions.\" As Goodman says, \"Not only motion, ... but even reality is relative.\" It follows that Goodman accepts many forms of realism and anti-realism without being troubled by the resulting contradictions.\n\nThe artist Tristan Tondino has had several exhibitions entitled \"Irreality\" which crossover into other fields and include philosophy, mathematics, ophthalmology, science and politics. He writes, \"Realism is an Irrealism. Reality is plurality - we partially create it, we must open our universes and our perceptions to all new versions that may promote the concept of human rights and expand its possibilities.\" In a painting depicting a chair and entitled \"The Hegemony of the Real\", Tondino has written \"That the Real must be regarded as a fiction does not detract from its hegemony\".\n\nThe sociologist Nikolas Rose subscribes to irrealism in his \"Powers of Freedom\", though his irrealism differs from Nelson's in being 'technical, not psychologistic, furthering Nelson's assertions of the human mind are only capable of a limited understanding and that it is a construct built upon itself.\"\n\nThe philosophical term may be used in more specific or arguably narrower senses, such as \"colour irrealism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1079249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079249", "title": "James Edwin Creighton", "text": "James Edwin Creighton\n\nJames Edwin Creighton (April 8, 1861, Pictou, Nova Scotia – October 8, 1924, Ithaca, NY), was an American philosopher who believed no system of thought can be the product of an isolated mind. \n\nHe was early influenced by Kant, Bradley and Bosanquet, and later accepted some of the views of Windelband and Heinrich Rickert, without sharing all of their opinions. Creighton differentiated between what he considered as intelligible in philosophy and what is intelligible in the natural sciences.\n\nCreighton (1902) was the founding president of the American Philosophical Association. His most important essays were compiled in \"Studies in Speculative Philosophy\" (Creighton, 1925; see also Sabine, 1917).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23796787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23796787", "title": "Kayotsarga", "text": "Kayotsarga\n\nKayotsarga ( , ) is a yogic posture which is an important part of the Jain meditation. It literally means \"dismissing the body\". A tirthankara is represented either seated in yoga posture or standing in the kayotsarga posture. \"Kayotsarga\" means \"to give up one's physical comfort and body movements\", thus staying steady, either in a standing or other posture, and concentrating upon the true nature of the soul. It is one of the six essentials (\"avasyaka\") of a Jain ascetic and one of the 28 primary attributes of a Digambara monk\n\nTwenty-one of the tīrthankaras of Jainism are said to have attained \"moksha\" in the kayotsarga “standing meditation” posture. An example of unflinching standing meditation is that of \"Arihant Bahubali\" who is said to have stood in kayotsarga for a year.\n\nIn performing \"sāmayika\" (daily meditation), the \"śrāvaka\" has to stand facing north or east and bow to the \"Pañca-Parameṣṭhi\". He then sit down and recites the Namokara mantra a certain number of times, and finally devotes himself to holy meditation. This consists in:\n\n"}
{"id": "2683596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683596", "title": "Kieran Egan (educationist)", "text": "Kieran Egan (educationist)\n\nKieran Egan (born 1942) is a contemporary educational philosopher and a student of the classics, anthropology, cognitive psychology, and cultural history. He has written on issues in education and child development, with an emphasis on the uses of imagination and the intellectual stages (Egan calls them understandings) that occur during a person’s intellectual development. He has questioned the work of Jean Piaget and progressive educators, notably Herbert Spencer and John Dewey.\n\nHe currently works at Simon Fraser University. His major work is \"The Educated Mind\".\n\nEgan was born in 1942 in Clonmel Ireland, though he was raised and educated in England. He graduated from the University of London with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1966. He subsequently worked as a research fellow at the Institute for Comparative Studies in Kingston upon Thames. He then moved to the United States and began a Ph.D in the philosophy of education at the Stanford Graduate School of Education. Egan completed his Ph.D at Cornell University in 1972.\n\nKieran Egan is the director of the Imaginative Education Research Group, which was founded by the Faculty of Education at Simon Fraser University. The goal of this group is to improve education on a global scale by developing and proliferating the ideas of Imaginative Education\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31601131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31601131", "title": "Kindness Day UK", "text": "Kindness Day UK\n\nKindness Day UK is celebrated on World Kindness Day, every 13 November. Kindness Day UK is a celebration of kindness, which aims to increase the value of kindness in society as well as increase the amount of kind acts that take place, making kindness a greater part in our daily life. Kindness Day UK is affiliated with the World Kindness Movement (WKM) which is a coalition of like minded organisations containing 18 member nations. It was set up in 2010 by Louise Burfitt-Dons who founded the Cool To Be Kind anti-bullying campaign in 2001 and UK Kindness Movement in 2005 and David Jamilly who founded The Good Deeds Organisation in 2005 and went on to found Kindness UK in 2011. It is now celebrated by a range of charities, associations, businesses, schools, organisations, institutions and individuals across the UK.\n\nKindness Day UK and World Kindness Day are on 13 November every year and celebrated and promoted by the UK members of the World Kindness Movement. On this date the Kindness Day UK campaign's mission is to make everyone in the UK carry out an act of kindness and take a small ‘pause for kindness’ to value its importance. As an overall mission, the Kindness Day UK campaign aims to make kindness to people, animals and the environment a bigger part of day-to-day life in the UK.\n\nThe date decreed for World Kindness Day is 13 November. This was the opening day of the first World Kindness Movement conference held at Tokyo in 1998, and the 35th anniversary of the Small Kindness Movement of Japan\n\nKindness Day has received a great amount of support from celebrities, enterprise, politicians and religious leaders. Supporters include Dame Barbara Stocking DBE, Chief Executive of Oxfam, The Rt HON Sir John Major KG CH, Russell Brand, Holly Willoughby and Sir Stuart Rose, Chairman of Marks and Spencer, The Rt Hon David Blunkett, Gary Lineker, Sir Alex Ferguson, Vanessa Feltz, Camilla Dallerup, Peter Snow, Jo Brand, Billy Murray, Patsy Kensit, Alan Titchmarsh, Brian Blessed, Jilly Cooper, Noel Edmonds, Charles Kennedy MP, Arlene Phillips, Ruby Wax and Monica Cafferky.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27937488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27937488", "title": "Mahayana", "text": "Mahayana\n\nMahāyāna (; Sanskrit for \"Great Vehicle\") is one of two main existing branches of Buddhism (the other being Theravada) and a term for classification of Buddhist philosophies and practice. This movement added a further set of discourses, and although it was initially small in India, it had long-term historical significance. The Buddhist tradition of Vajrayana is sometimes classified as a part of Mahayana Buddhism, but some scholars consider it to be a different branch altogether.\n\nAccording to the teachings of Mahāyāna traditions, \"Mahāyāna\" also refers to the path of the Bodhisattva seeking complete enlightenment for the benefit of all sentient beings, also called \"Bodhisattvayāna\", or the \"Bodhisattva Vehicle\". A bodhisattva who has accomplished this goal is called a samyaksaṃbuddha, or \"fully enlightened Buddha\". A samyaksaṃbuddha can establish the Dharma and lead disciples to enlightenment. Mahayana Buddhists teach that enlightenment can be attained in a single lifetime, and this can be accomplished even by a layperson.\n\nThe Mahāyāna tradition is the largest major tradition of Buddhism existing today, with 53.2% of practitioners, compared to 35.8% for Theravada and 5.7% for Vajrayana in 2010.\n\nIn the course of its history, Mahāyāna Buddhism spread from India to various other South, East and Southeast Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China, Taiwan, Mongolia, Korea, Japan, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. Mahayana Buddhism also spread to other South and Southeast Asian countries, such as Afghanistan, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, the Maldives, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Burma, Iran and other Central Asian countries before being replaced by Theravada Buddhism or other religions.\nLarge Mahāyāna scholastic centers thrived during the latter period of Buddhism in India, between the seventh and twelfth centuries. Major traditions of Mahāyāna Buddhism today include Chan Buddhism, Korean Seon, Japanese Zen, Pure Land Buddhism, Nichiren Buddhism and Vietnamese Buddhism. It may also include the Vajrayana traditions of Tiantai, Tendai, Shingon Buddhism, and Tibetan Buddhism, which add esoteric teachings to the Mahāyāna tradition.\n\nAccording to Jan Nattier, the term \"Mahāyāna\" (\"Great Vehicle\") was originally an honorary synonym for \"Bodhisattvayāna\" (\"Bodhisattva Vehicle\") — the vehicle of a bodhisattva seeking buddhahood for the benefit of all sentient beings. The term \"Mahāyāna\" (which had earlier been used simply as an epithet for Buddhism itself) was therefore adopted at an early date as a synonym for the path and the teachings of the bodhisattvas. Since it was simply an honorary term for \"Bodhisattvayāna\", the adoption of the term \"Mahāyāna\" and its application to Bodhisattvayāna did not represent a significant turning point in the development of a Mahāyāna tradition.\n\nThe earliest Mahāyāna texts often use the term \"Mahāyāna\" as a synonym for \"Bodhisattvayāna\", but the term \"Hīnayāna\" is comparatively rare in the earliest sources. The presumed dichotomy between \"Mahāyāna\" and \"Hīnayāna\" can be deceptive, as the two terms were not actually formed in relation to one another in the same era.\n\nAmong the earliest and most important references to \"Mahāyāna\" are those that occur in the \"Lotus Sūtra\" (Skt. \"Saddharma Puṇḍarīka Sūtra\") dating between the 1st century BCE and the 1st century CE. Seishi Karashima has suggested that the term first used in an earlier Gandhāri Prakrit version of the \"Lotus Sūtra\" was not the term \"mahāyāna\" but the Prakrit word \"mahājāna\" in the sense of \"mahājñāna\" (great knowing). At a later stage when the early Prakrit word was converted into Sanskrit, this \"mahājāna\", being phonetically ambivalent, was mistakenly converted into \"mahāyāna\", possibly because of what may have been a double meaning in the famous Parable of the Burning House, which talks of three vehicles or carts (Skt: \"yāna\").\n\nThe origins of Mahāyāna are still not completely understood. The earliest Western views of Mahāyāna assumed that it existed as a separate school in competition with the so-called \"Hīnayāna\" schools. The earliest Mahāyāna texts often depict strict adherence to the path of a bodhisattva, and engagement in the ascetic ideal of a monastic life in the wilderness, akin to the ideas expressed in the \"Rhinoceros Sūtra\".\n\nThe earliest textual evidence of \"Mahāyāna\" comes from sūtras originating around the beginning of the common era. Jan Nattier has noted that some of the earliest Mahāyāna texts such as the \"Ugraparipṛccha Sūtra\" use the term \"Mahāyāna\", yet there is no doctrinal difference between Mahāyāna in this context and the early schools, and that \"Mahāyāna\" referred rather to the rigorous emulation of Gautama Buddha in the path of a bodhisattva seeking to become a fully enlightened buddha.\n\nThere is also no evidence that Mahāyāna ever referred to a separate formal school or sect of Buddhism, but rather that it existed as a certain set of ideals, and later doctrines, for bodhisattvas. Paul Williams has also noted that the Mahāyāna never had nor ever attempted to have a separate Vinaya or ordination lineage from the early schools of Buddhism, and therefore each bhikṣu or bhikṣuṇī adhering to the Mahāyāna formally belonged to an early school. Membership in these \"nikāyas\", or monastic sects, continues today with the Dharmaguptaka nikāya in East Asia, and the Mūlasarvāstivāda nikāya in Tibetan Buddhism. Therefore, Mahāyāna was never a separate rival sect of the early schools. Paul Harrison clarifies that while monastic Mahāyānists belonged to a nikāya, not all members of a nikāya were Mahāyānists. From Chinese monks visiting India, we now know that both Mahāyāna and non-Mahāyāna monks in India often lived in the same monasteries side by side. It is also possible that, formally, Mahāyāna would have been understood as a group of monks or nuns within a larger monastery taking a vow together (known as a \"kriyākarma\") to memorize and study a Mahāyāna text or texts.\n\nThe Chinese monk Yijing, who visited India in the 7th century CE, distinguishes Mahāyāna from Hīnayāna as follows:\n\nMuch of the early extant evidence for the origins of Mahāyāna comes from early Chinese translations of Mahāyāna texts. These Mahāyāna teachings were first propagated into China by Lokakṣema, the first translator of Mahāyāna sūtras into Chinese during the 2nd century CE.\n\nBased on the testimony of Candrakīrti (7th cent.) several scholars have suggested that the Prajñāpāramitā sūtras, which are among the earliest Mahayana sutras, developed among the Mahāsāṃghika along the Kṛṣṇa River in the Āndhra region of southern India. However, more recently Seishi Karashima has argued for their origin in the Gandhara region. \n\nThe earliest Mahāyāna sūtras include the very first versions of the Prajñāpāramitā genre, along with texts concerning Akṣobhya Buddha, which were probably written down in the 1st century BCE in the south of India. Guang Xing states, \"Several scholars have suggested the Prajñāpāramitā probably developed among the Mahāsāṃghikas in southern India, in the Āndhra country, on the Kṛṣṇa River.\" A.K. Warder believes that \"the Mahāyāna originated in the south of India and almost certainly in the Āndhra country.\"\n\nAnthony Barber and Sree Padma note that \"historians of Buddhist thought have been aware for quite some time that such pivotally important Mahayana Buddhist thinkers as Nāgārjuna, Dignaga, Candrakīrti, Āryadeva, and Bhavaviveka, among many others, formulated their theories while living in Buddhist communities in Āndhra.\" They note that the ancient Buddhist sites in the lower Kṛṣṇa Valley, including Amaravati, Nāgārjunakoṇḍā and Jaggayyapeṭa \"can be traced to at least the third century BCE, if not earlier.\" Akira Hirakawa notes the \"evidence suggests that many Early Mahayana scriptures originated in South India.\"\n\nSome scholars think that the earliest Mahāyāna sūtras were mainly composed in the south of India, and later the activity of writing additional scriptures was continued in the north. However, the assumption that the presence of an evolving body of Mahāyāna scriptures implies the contemporaneous existence of distinct religious movement called \"Mahāyāna\", may be a serious misstep. Some scholars further speculate that the Prajñāpāramitā sūtras were written in response to the ultrarealism of abhidharma.\n\nSome early Mahāyāna sūtras were translated by the Kuṣāṇa monk Lokakṣema, who came to China from the kingdom of Gandhāra. His first translations to Chinese were made in the Chinese capital of Luoyang between 178 and 189 CE. Some Mahāyāna sūtras translated during the 2nd century CE include the following:\n\nThis corpus of texts often emphasizes ascetic practices and forest dwelling, absorbed in states of meditative concentration.\n\nThe earliest stone inscription containing a recognizably Mahāyāna formulation and a mention of the Buddha Amitābha was found in the Indian subcontinent in Mathura, and dated to around 180 CE. Remains of a statue of a Buddha bear the Brāhmī inscription: \"Made in the year 28 of the reign of King Huviṣka, ... for the Blessed One, the Buddha Amitābha.\" There is also some evidence that Emperor Huviṣka himself was a follower of Mahāyāna Buddhism, and a Sanskrit manuscript fragment in the Schøyen Collection describes Huviṣka as having \"set forth in the Mahāyāna.\" Evidence of the name \"Mahāyāna\" in Indian inscriptions in the period before the 5th century is very limited in comparison to the multiplicity of Mahāyāna writings transmitted from Central Asia to China at that time.\n\nDuring the period of early Mahāyāna Buddhism, four major types of thought developed: Mādhyamaka, Yogācāra, Buddha-nature (\"Tathāgatagarbha\"), and Buddhist logic as the last and most recent. In India, the two main philosophical schools of the Mahāyāna were the Mādhyamaka and the later Yogācāra. During the Kushan Empire, Mahayana Buddhism teachings encouraged societies to give generous donations to the Buddhist monasteries, which gave the people \"religious merits\".\n\nEarlier stage forms of Mahāyāna such as the doctrines of Prajñāpāramitā, Yogācāra, Buddha Nature, and the Pure Land teachings are still popular in East Asia. In some cases these have spawned new developments, while in others they are treated in the more traditional syncretic manner. Paul Williams has noted that in this tradition in the Far East, primacy has always been given to study of the sūtras.\n\nVarious classes of Vajrayana literature developed as a result of royal courts sponsoring both Buddhism and Saivism. The Mañjusrimulakalpa, which later came to classified under Kriyatantra, states that mantras taught in the Shaiva, Garuda and Vaishnava tantras will be effective if applied by Buddhists since they were all taught originally by Manjushri. The Guhyasiddhi of Padmavajra, a work associated with the Guhyasamaja tradition, prescribes acting as a Shaiva guru and initiating members into Saiva Siddhanta scriptures and mandalas. The Samvara tantra texts adopted the pitha list from the Shaiva text \"Tantrasadbhava\", introducing a copying error where a deity was mistaken for a place.\n\nFew things can be said with certainty about Mahāyāna Buddhism, especially its early Indian form, other than that the Buddhism practiced in China, Indonesia, Vietnam, Korea, Tibet, and Japan is Mahāyāna Buddhism. Mahāyāna can be described as a loosely bound collection of many teachings with large and expansive doctrines that are able to exist simultaneously.\n\nMahāyāna constitutes an inclusive tradition characterized by plurality and the adoption of new Mahayana sutras in addition to the earlier āgamas. Mahāyāna sees itself as penetrating further and more profoundly into the Buddha's Dharma. An Indian commentary on the \"Mahāyānasaṃgraha\", entitled \"Vivṛtaguhyārthapiṇḍavyākhyā\", gives a classification of teachings according to the capabilities of the audience:\n\nThere is also a tendency in Mahāyāna sūtras to regard adherence to these sūtras as generating spiritual benefits greater than those that arise from being a follower of the non-Mahāyāna approaches to Dharma. Thus the \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\" claims that the Buddha said that devotion to Mahāyāna is inherently superior in its virtues to following the śrāvaka or pratyekabuddha paths.\n\nThe fundamental principles of Mahāyāna doctrine were based on the possibility of universal liberation from dukkha for all beings (hence the \"Great Vehicle\") and the existence of buddhas and bodhisattvas embodying Buddha-nature. The Pure Land school of Mahāyāna simplifies the expression of faith by allowing salvation to be alternatively obtained through the grace of the buddha Amitābha by having faith and devoting oneself to mindfulness of the Buddha. This devotional lifestyle of Buddhism has greatly contributed to the success of Mahāyāna in East Asia, where spiritual elements traditionally relied upon mindfulness of the Buddha, mantras and dhāraṇīs, and reading sutras. In Chinese Buddhism, most monks, let alone lay people, practice Pure Land, some combining it with Chan Buddhism.\n\nMost Mahāyāna schools believe in supernatural bodhisattvas who devote themselves to the pāramitās, ultimate knowledge (Skt. \"sarvajñāna\"), and the liberation of all sentient beings.\n\nThe Mahāyāna tradition holds that pursuing only the release from suffering and attainment of Nirvāṇa is too narrow an aspiration, because it lacks the motivation of actively resolving to liberate all other sentient beings from saṃsāra, \"suffering\". One who engages in this path is called a bodhisattva. Bodhisattvas could reach nirvana, but they believe it is more important to help others on their path of finding nirvana rather than committing fully to nirvana themselves.\n\nThe defining characteristic of a bodhisattva is bodhicitta, the intention to achieve omniscient Buddhahood (Trikaya) as fast as possible, so that one may benefit infinite sentient beings. Sometimes the term bodhisattva is used more restrictively to refer to those sentient beings on the grounds. As Ananda Coomaraswamy notes, \"The most essential part of the Mahayana is its emphasis on the Bodhisattva ideal, which replaces that of the arhat, or ranks before it.\" According to Mahāyāna teachings, being a high-level bodhisattva involves possessing a mind of great compassion and prajñā (wisdom) to realize the reality of inherent emptiness and dependent origination. Mahāyāna teaches that the practitioner will finally realize the attainment of Buddhahood.\n\nSix pāramitās are traditionally required for bodhisattvas:\n\nExpedient means (Skt. \"upāya\") is found in the \"Lotus Sutra\", one of the earliest-dated sutras, and is accepted in all Mahāyāna schools of thought. It is any effective method that aids awakening. It does not necessarily mean that some particular method is \"untrue\" but is simply any means or stratagem that is conducive to spiritual growth and leads beings to awakening and nirvana. Expedient means could thus be certain motivational words for a particular listener or even the Noble Eightfold Path itself. Basic Buddhism (what Mahāyāna would term \"śrāvakayāna\" or \"pratyekabuddhayāna\") is an expedient method for helping people begin the noble Buddhist path and advance quite far. But the path is not wholly traversed, according to some schools, until the practitioner has striven for and attained Buddhahood for the liberation of all other sentient beings from suffering.\n\nSome scholars have stated that the exercise of expedient means, \"the ability to adapt one's message to the audience, is also of enormous importance in the Pāli canon.\" In fact the Pāli term \"upāya-kosalla\" does occur in the Pāli Canon, in the \"Sangiti Sutta\" of the \"Digha Nikāya\".\n\nMahāyāna Buddhism includes a rich cosmology, with various Buddhas and bodhisattvas residing in different worlds and buddha-realms. The concept of the three bodies (\"trikāya\") supports these constructions, making the Buddha himself a transcendental figure. Dr. Guang Xing describes the Mahāyāna Buddha as \"an omnipotent divinity endowed with numerous supernatural attributes and qualities ...[He] is described almost as an omnipotent and almighty godhead.\"\n\n\"Buddha-nature\", \"Buddha-dhatu\" or \"Buddha Principle\" (Skt: \"Buddha-dhātu\", \"Tathāgatagarbha\"; Jap: \"Bussho\"), is taught differently in various Mahayana Buddhism traditions. Broadly speaking Buddha-nature is concerned with ascertaining what allows sentient beings to become Buddhas. The term, Buddha nature, is a translation of the Sanskrit coinage, 'Buddha-dhātu', which seems first to have appeared in the \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\", where it refers to \"a sacred nature that is the basis for [beings'] becoming buddhas\", and where it is also spoken of as the 'Self' (\"atman\").\n\nIt is called \"Tathāgatagarbha\" \"Buddha-dhātu\" at the stage of sentient beings because it is covered with defilements, and it is called \"Dharmakāya\" at the stage of Buddhahood, because its pure nature is revealed.\n\nThe teaching of a \"Buddha nature\" (Skt. \"tathāgatagarbha\") may be based on the \"luminous mind\" concept found in the \"Āgamas\". The essential idea, articulated in the Buddha nature sūtras, but not accepted by all Mahāyānists, is that no being is without a concealed but indestructible interior link to the awakening of \"bodhi\" and that this link is an uncreated element (\"dhātu\") or principle deep inside each being, which constitutes the deathless, diamond-like \"essence of the self\". The \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" states: \"The essence of the Self (\"ātman\") is the subtle Buddha nature...\" while the later \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" states that the Buddha nature might be taken to be self (\"ātman\"), but it is not. In the \"sagathakam\" section of that same sutra, however, the Tathagatagarbha as the Self is not denied, but affirmed: \"The \"Atma\" [Self] characterised with purity is the state of self-realization; this is the Tathagata's Womb (\"garbha\"), which does not belong to the realm of the theorisers.\" In the Buddha nature class of sūtras, the word \"self\" (\"ātman\") is used in a way defined by and specific to these sūtras. (See Atman (Buddhism).)\n\nAccording to some scholars, the Buddha nature discussed in some Mahāyāna sūtras does not represent a substantial self (\"ātman\"); rather, it is a positive language and expression of emptiness (\"śūnyatā\") and represents the potentiality to realize Buddhahood through Buddhist practices. It is the \"true self\" in representing the innate aspect of the individual that makes actualizing the ultimate personality possible.\n\nThe actual \"seeing and knowing\" of this Buddha essence is said to usher in nirvanic liberation. This Buddha essence or \"Buddha nature\" is stated to be found in every single person, ghost, god and sentient being. In the Buddha nature sūtras, the Buddha is portrayed as describing the Buddha essence as uncreated, deathless and ultimately beyond rational grasping or conceptualisation. Yet, it is this already real and present, hidden internal element of awakeness (\"bodhi\") that, according to the Buddha nature sūtras, prompts beings to seek liberation from worldly suffering, and lets them attain the spotless bliss that lies at the heart of their being. Once the veils of negative thoughts, feelings, and unwholesome behaviour (the \"kleśas\") are eliminated from the mind and character, the indwelling Buddha principle (\"Buddha-dhātu\": Buddha nature) can shine forth unimpededly and transform the seer into a Buddha.\n\nPrior to the period of these sūtras, Mahāyāna metaphysics was dominated by teachings on emptiness, in the form of Madhyamaka philosophy. The language used by this approach is primarily negative, and the Buddha nature genre of sūtras can be seen as an attempt to state orthodox Buddhist teachings of dependent origination and on the mysterious reality of nirvana using positive language instead, to prevent people from being turned away from Buddhism by a false impression of nihilism. In these sūtras the perfection of the wisdom of not-self is stated to be the true self; the ultimate goal of the path is then characterized using a range of positive language that had been used in Indian philosophy previously by essentialist philosophers, but was now transmuted into a new Buddhist vocabulary that described a being who has successfully completed the Buddhist path.\n\nA different view is propounded by Tathagatagarbha specialist, Michael Zimmermann, who sees key Buddha-nature sutras such as the \"Nirvana Sutra\" and the \"Tathagatagarbha Sutra\", as well as the \"Lankavatara Sutra\", enunciating an affirmative vision of an eternal, indestructible Buddhic Self. Zimmermann observes:\n\nThe \"Uttaratantra\" (an exegetical treatise on Buddha nature) sees Buddha nature not as caused and conditioned (\"saṃskṛta\"), but as eternal, uncaused, unconditioned, and incapable of being destroyed, although temporarily concealed within worldly beings by adventitious defilements. According to C. D. Sebastian, the \"Uttaratantra's\" reference to a transcendental self (\"ātma-pāramitā\") should be understood as \"the unique essence of the universe\", thus the universal and immanent essence of Buddha nature is the same throughout time and space.\n\nMahāyāna Buddhism takes the basic teachings of the Buddha as recorded in early scriptures as the starting point of its teachings, such as those concerning karma and rebirth, anātman, emptiness, dependent origination, and the Four Noble Truths. Mahāyāna Buddhists in East Asia have traditionally studied these teachings in the Āgamas preserved in the Chinese Buddhist canon. \"Āgama\" is the term used by those traditional Buddhist schools in India who employed Sanskrit for their basic canon. These correspond to the Nikāyas used by the Theravāda school. The surviving Āgamas in Chinese translation belong to at least two schools, while most of the Āgamas teachings were never translated into Tibetan.\n\nIn addition to accepting the essential scriptures of the early Buddhist schools as valid, Mahāyāna Buddhism maintains large collections of sūtras that are not used or recognized by the Theravāda school. These were not recognized by some individuals in the early Buddhist schools. In other cases, Buddhist communities were divided along these doctrinal lines. In Mahāyāna Buddhism, the Mahāyāna sūtras are often given greater authority than the Āgamas. The first of these Mahāyāna-specific writings were written probably around the 1st century BCE or 1st century CE.\n\nIn the 4th century Mahāyāna abhidharma work \"Abhidharmasamuccaya\", Asaṅga refers to the collection which contains the āgamas as the \"Śrāvakapiṭaka\" and associates it with the śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas. Asaṅga classifies the Mahāyāna sūtras as belonging to the \"Bodhisattvapiṭaka\", which is designated as the collection of teachings for bodhisattvas.\n\nDating back at least to the \"Saṃdhinirmocana Sūtra\" is a classification of the corpus of Buddhism into three categories, based on ways of understanding the nature of reality, known as the \"Three Turnings of the Dharma Wheel\". According to this view, there were three such \"turnings\":\n\n\nSome traditions of Tibetan Buddhism consider the teachings of Esoteric Buddhism and Vajrayāna to be the third turning of the Dharma Wheel. Tibetan teachers, particularly of the Gelugpa school, regard the second turning as the highest teaching, because of their particular interpretation of Yogācāra doctrine. The Buddha Nature teachings are normally included in the third turning of the wheel. The Chinese tradition has a different scheme.\n\nThe Chinese T'ien-T'ai believed the Buddha taught over Five Periods. These are:\n\n\nScholars have noted that many key Mahāyāna ideas are closely connected to the earliest texts of Buddhism. The seminal work of Mahāyāna philosophy, Nāgārjuna's \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\", mentions the canon's \"Katyāyana Sūtra\" (SA 301) by name, and may be an extended commentary on that work. Nāgārjuna systematized the Mādhyamaka school of Mahāyāna philosophy. He may have arrived at his positions from a desire to achieve a consistent exegesis of the Buddha's doctrine as recorded in the canon. In his eyes the Buddha was not merely a forerunner, but the very founder of the Mādhyamaka system. Nāgārjuna also referred to a passage in the canon regarding \"nirvanic consciousness\" in two different works.\n\nYogācāra, the other prominent Mahāyāna school in dialectic with the Mādhyamaka school, gave a special significance to the canon's \"Lesser Discourse on Emptiness\" (MA 190). A passage there (which the discourse itself emphasizes) is often quoted in later Yogācāra texts as a true definition of emptiness. According to Walpola Rahula, the thought presented in the Yogācāra school's \"Abhidharma-samuccaya\" is undeniably closer to that of the Pali Nikayas than is that of the Theravadin Abhidhamma.\n\nBoth the Mādhyamikas and the Yogācārins saw themselves as preserving the Buddhist Middle Way between the extremes of nihilism (everything as unreal) and substantialism (substantial entities existing). The Yogācārins criticized the Mādhyamikas for tending towards nihilism, while the Mādhyamikas criticized the Yogācārins for tending towards substantialism.\n\nKey Mahāyāna texts introducing the concepts of bodhicitta and Buddha nature also use language parallel to passages in the canon containing the Buddha's description of \"luminous mind\" and appear to have evolved from this idea. \n\nIn the early Buddhist texts, and as taught by the modern Theravada school, the goal of becoming a teaching Buddha in a future life is viewed as the aim of a small group of individuals striving to benefit future generations after the current Buddha's teachings have been lost, but in the current age there is no need for most practitioners to aspire to this goal. Theravada texts do, however, hold that this is a more perfectly virtuous goal.\n\nPaul Williams writes that some modern Theravada meditation masters in Thailand are popularly regarded as bodhisattvas.\n\nIn the 7th century, the Chinese Buddhist monk Xuanzang describes the concurrent existence of the Mahāvihara and the Abhayagiri Vihara in Sri Lanka. He refers to the monks of the Mahāvihara as the \"Hīnayāna Sthaviras\" (\"Theras\"), and the monks of the Abhayagiri Vihara as the \"Mahāyāna Sthaviras\". Xuanzang further writes:\n\nThe modern Theravāda school is usually described as belonging to Hīnayāna. Some authors have argued that it should not be considered such from the Mahāyāna perspective. Their view is based on a different understanding of the concept of Hīnayāna. Rather than regarding the term as referring to any school of Buddhism that hasn't accepted the Mahāyāna canon and doctrines, such as those pertaining to the role of the bodhisattva, these authors argue that the classification of a school as \"Hīnayāna\" should be crucially dependent on the adherence to a specific phenomenological position. They point out that unlike the now-extinct Sarvāstivāda school, which was the primary object of Mahāyāna criticism, the Theravāda does not claim the existence of independent entities (\"dharmas\"); in this it maintains the attitude of early Buddhism. Adherents of Mahāyāna Buddhism disagreed with the substantialist thought of the Sarvāstivādins and Sautrāntikas, and in emphasizing the doctrine of emptiness, Kalupahana holds that they endeavored to preserve the early teaching. The Theravādins too refuted the Sarvāstivādins and Sautrāntikas (and other schools) on the grounds that their theories were in conflict with the non-substantialism of the canon. The Theravāda arguments are preserved in the \"Kathāvatthu\".\n\nSome contemporary Theravādin figures have indicated a sympathetic stance toward the Mahāyāna philosophy found in texts such as the \"Heart Sūtra\" (Skt. \"Prajñāpāramitā Hṛdaya\") and Nāgārjuna's \"Fundamental Stanzas on the Middle Way\" (Skt. \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56757288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56757288", "title": "Mangudi Marudhanar", "text": "Mangudi Marudhanar\n\nMāngudi Maruthanār (Tamil: மாங்குடி மருதனார்), also known as Mānkudi Kilār (Tamil: மாங்குடி கிழார்), Madhurai Kānchi Pulavar (Tamil: மதுரை காஞ்சி புலவர்), and Kānchi Pulavanār (Tamil: காஞ்சிப்புலவனார்), was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom 13 verses of the Sangam literature have been attributed, including verse 24 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai. He was the author of Madurai Kaanchi of the Pathupattu (the Ten Idylls).\n\nMangudi Marudhanar hailed from the town of Mangudi and belonged to the Vellan caste.\n\nMangudi Marudhanar wrote the Madurai Kaanchi literature of the Pathupattu (the Ten Idylls). Besides he has written 13 Sangam verses, including 3 in Kurunthogai, 2 in Natrinai, 6 in Purananuru, 1 in Agananuru, and 1 in Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "42354754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42354754", "title": "Marcia Baron", "text": "Marcia Baron\n\nMarcia Baron is the Rudy Professor of Philosophy at Indiana University Bloomington. Her main research interests include moral philosophy, moral psychology, and philosophical issues in criminal law. Baron is an associate editor of \"\", a member of the editorial board of \"The International Encyclopedia of Ethics\", a series editor for New Directions in Ethics, and a member of the editorial board of the North American Kant Studies in Philosophy.\n\nBaron received her baccalaureate from Oberlin College in 1976, and went on to receive a master's and doctoral degree from the University of North Carolina in 1978 and 1982, respectively. After receiving her doctorate, Baron accepted an appointment as an Assistant Professor at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University and an appointment as a Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She accepted a permanent offer from UIUC in 1983, was promoted to Associate Professor in 1989, and to full Professor in 1996. In 2001, she moved to Indiana University - Bloomington as a full professor, and she was named the Rudy Professor in 2004. In 2012 she accepted an additional appointment as Professor at the University of St. Andrews, while retaining her position at Indiana as well. She retains an honorary professorship there. Besides for her permanent positions, Baron has also held visiting positions at a variety of institutions, including Illinois State University, Stanford University, the University of Michigan, the University of Chicago, the University of Melbourne, the University of Auckland, and Dartmouth College.\n\nBaron's research has focused on moral philosophy, moral psychology, the philosophical issues of criminal law, impartiality in ethics, as well as Immanuel Kant (whom she has authored two books on) and David Hume. Baron has written extensively about topics such as apparent conflicts between different types of interpersonal relationships, manipulativeness, justifications and excuses, the moral significance of appearances, and the ethics of Kant and Hume. She has also written about a wide variety of topics related to philosophical issues of criminal law, including writing several papers on potential defenses to bodily crimes, issues surrounding mens rea (including whether or not mens rea can be satisfied by negligence,) and the standards of control and reasonableness that people should be held to (cf. the \"reasonable person\".)\n\nBaron has written or co-written two books and is working on a third - \"Three Methods of Ethics: A Debate\" in 1997, and \"Kantian Ethics Almost without Apology\" in 1995. Baron's upcoming book, tentatively titled \"Self-Defense, Reason, and the Law\", focuses on the reasonable belief requirement as it pertains to self-defense. She has also published around four dozen papers, one monograph, five encyclopedia articles, and a host of book reviews. In \"Three Methods of Ethics\", Baron's contribution focused providing a limited defense of Immanuel Kant, attempting to demonstrate that a Kantian position is superior to that espoused by virtue ethicists. In \"Kantian Ethics\", Baron attempts to provide a limited defense of Kantian ethics intended for a broader audience than those who are already Kantians. \"Kantian Ethics\" tries to directly address two widely perceived problems in Kant's positions; first, the idea that Kant's ethics leave no room for superogatory actions, and second, that Kant places too much emphasis on the idea of duty.\n"}
{"id": "427813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427813", "title": "Max Magnus Norman", "text": "Max Magnus Norman\n\nCal Henrik Max Magnus Norman (born July 30, 1973) is a Swedish artist, painter, and sculptor.\n\nNorman was born in Sundsvall, Medelpad, he currently resides in Prague. He paints visions and dreamlike images as accurately as possible, which results in paintings with a photorealistic quality. His works are intended to spread virally among social networks on the Internet; his art and stunts often deal with everyday events spiced up with a touch of the absurd.\n\nA few examples of such works created for the Internet are the illustrated essay \"The LED (minor) Artcrime Tutorial\" and the \"Moose graffiti\" stunt, where the artist sneaks up on a wild moose and paints graffiti on it. His sculpture and plastic arts projects have received some exposure in Sweden, such as his art project that consisted of a woodpecker placed on a traffic camera on the E4 near Stockvik.\nIn another of Max Magnus Norman's art projects the artist created an unknown (but huge) number of plastic monkeys, about 1 metres in length. One night in early May 2009 he put up these monkeys in different settings all over the small city Sundsvall. One monkey was riding a crocodile in the middle of the central stream Selångersån and one was placed upon a traffic light making it look like the monkey controlled the traffic, some monkeys were even placed under water. A few of these monkeys still remain, amongst other one flying 20 metres up in the air, holding a beer can above the intersection Köpmangatan-Thulegatan.\n\nIn 2008, a statue of his, \"Kuken ska ha sitt,\" which includes a 30 cm. long penis, caused some local outcry which was noticed by the Swedish press: the \"obscene sculpture\" drew notice and commentary from the two largest Swedish papers, Aftonbladet and Expressen. As it happened, Norman's sculpture coincided with a few other \"phallic\" Swedish works of art that year, including a full-frontal nude Jesus; the fact that Norman's sculpture was provided with a warning for the young enhanced its reputation, as well as that of the artist.\n\nIn 2014 Max Magnus Norman published the book \"Magnum Opus\" (2014, ) where he describes how he unsought managed to create The Philosopher's Stone. The book, written in Swedish, is built up as a manual on how to reach spiritual and physical enlightenment, layered with self biographical anecdotes. The book is written with serious intent and received a few positive reviews in Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "15878987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15878987", "title": "Means to an end", "text": "Means to an end\n\nIn philosophy, the term \"means to an end\" refers to any action (the means) carried out for the sole purpose of achieving something else (an end). It can be thought of as a metaphysical distinction as no empirical information differentiates actions that are means to ends from those that are not—that are \"ends in themselves\". It has been inferred that all actions are means to other ends—this is relevant when considering the meaning of life.\n\nImmanuel Kant's theory of morality, the categorical imperative, states that it is immoral to use another person merely as a means to an end and that people must—under all circumstances—be treated as ends in themselves. This is in contrast to some interpretations of the utilitarian view, which allow for use of individuals as means to benefit the many.\n\nA means to an end is also an idiom. It often refers to an activity (such as an undesirable job) that is not as important as the goal you hope to achieve (monetary gains for example). For example, Sam does not have any professional ambitions. For her, work is just a means to an end. One starts something and finishes it, without that something leading into something else, thus it is an end in itself.\n"}
{"id": "1162119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1162119", "title": "Mohammed Arkoun", "text": "Mohammed Arkoun\n\nProfessor Mohammed Arkoun (; ; 1 February 1928 – 14 September 2010) was an Algerian scholar and thinker. He was considered to have been one of the most influential secular scholars in Islamic studies contributing to contemporary intellectual Islamic reform. In a career of more than 30 years, he had been a critic of the tensions embedded in his field of study, advocating Islamic modernism, secularism, and humanism. During his academic career, he wrote his numerous books mostly in French, and occasionally in English and Arabic. He appeared on numerous occasions on French TV and magazines, on Berbère Télévision speaking in Kabyle, his mother tongue, and on Al Jazeera speaking in Arabic. \n\nArkoun was born in 1928 in Taourirt Mimoun, a Berber village in Great Kabylia in northern Algeria. His family were traditional religious and relatively poor. His father was a shopkeeper in Ain al-Arba'a, a wealthy French settlement in east of Oran. He attended primary school in his Berber-speaking home village until he was nine-years-old. As the eldest son, he was expected to learn his father’s trade, while continuing to attend primary school. He studied at the Faculty of Literature of the University of Algiers and at the Sorbonne in Paris (agrégé in Arabic language and Literature, 1956 and Ph.D., 1968). He established his academic reputation with his studies of the history and philosophy of Ibn Miskawayh. As he began to consider how one might rethink Islam in the contemporary world, his questioning provided a counterpoint to the predominant interpretations of both the Muslim world and the non-Muslim West. As the editor of \"Arabica\", he broadened the journal's scope, and played a significant role in shaping Western-language scholarship on Islam. He is the author of numerous books in French, English and Arabic, including most recently: \"Rethinking Islam\" (Boulder, Colorado, 1994), \"L'immigration: défis et richesses\" (Paris, 1998) and \"The Unthought in Contemporary Islamic Thought\" (London, 2002). His shorter studies have appeared in many academic journals and his works have been translated into several languages.\n\nHe was decorated as an Officer of the French Légion d'honneur in July 1996. In 2001, Professor Arkoun was asked to deliver the Gifford Lectures, which enable a notable scholar to contribute to the advancement of theological and philosophical thought and was announced as the recipient of the Seventeenth Georgio Levi Della Vida Award for his lifelong contribution to the field of Islamic Studies.\nArkoun taught at the Lyon 2 University (1969–1972), as a professor at the Paris 8 University, and at the (1972–1992). He was a Fellow at Wissenschaftskolleg in Berlin (1986–1987 and 1990) and at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A (1992–1993), visiting professor at University of California, Los Angeles (1969), Princeton University (1985), Temple University, the University of Louvain-la-Neuve, Wallonia, Belgium, (1977–1979), the Pontifical Institute of Arabic Studies in Rome and the University of Amsterdam (1991–1993) and served as a jury member for the Aga Khan Award for Architecture. At the time of his death he was Emeritus Professor at La Sorbonne as well as Senior Research Fellow and member of the Board of Governors of The Institute of Ismaili Studies , At IIS, he has taught various graduate courses including unthought in contemporary Islamic thought, rethinking Islam, contemporary challenges of Muslim world and traditions for almost a decade.\n\nArkoun died on the evening of September 14, 2010, in Paris.\n\nArkoun advocated a radical paradigm shift that would allow for the rethinking of Islam as a cultural and religious system and subvert ideological and dogmatic constructs with hegemonic claims. He was committed to contribute to an archaeology of the hidden, repressed, and marginalised elements of Islam, in order to uncover, and set free, what he called, 'the exhaustive tradition' of Islam. Most of his work is written in French rather than Arabic. In order to counter-act the philological and historical bias of traditional Islamic studies, he advocated what he called “applied Islamology”—following Roger Bastide’s concept of “applied anthropology.” Applied Islamology aims to establish a “disciplinary space between political and historical sciences” (Arkoun, The answers, 25), taking into consideration elements of the courte and longue durée, as well as contemporary social factors. Arkoun has developed an inclusive approach which seeks to deal with Islamic tradition in its entirety, including elements characterised by the representatives of orthodoxy (or official religion) as heterodox, and therefore marginalised and repressed. He has adopted a multifaceted and holistic approach which looks between traditional dogma and axioms. Arkoun’s critique of Islamic reason serves as the unifying theme, or leitmotif for the different concepts he elaborated over the course of time.\n\nTitle number five is a revised edition of title number four.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32135755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32135755", "title": "Monique Canto-Sperber", "text": "Monique Canto-Sperber\n\nMonique Canto-Sperber is a French philosopher. She was born on May 14, 1954. Her works, translated in several languages, are focused on ethics and contemporary political issues. A former Director of the École normale supérieure from 2005 to 2012, she has been President of Paris Sciences et Lettres – Quartier latin, a French higher education and research institution, since 2012.\n\nMonique Canto-Sperber was born in French Algeria and has been living in France since 1964. An alumnus of the Ecole normale supérieure de jeunes filles, she is Agrégée and holds a PhD in philosophy.\n\nAfter teaching at the universities of Rouen and Amiens, she became Research Director at the CNRS in 1993. Between 2001 and 2004, she was a member of the Comité consultatif national d'éthique and served as its President from 2004 to 2007.\n\nShe produces the radio programme \"Questions d'éthique\" on France Culture, broadcast every Monday evening.\n\nShe is officier de la Légion d'honneur officier de l'ordre du Mérite et chevalier des Arts et des Lettres.\n\nHer work in ancient philosophy is centred on ethical theory and epistemology; she has published several commented translations of Plato (Gorgias, Ion, Euthydème, Ménon) and various books. She has also taken an active part in the renewal of moral philosophy in France, with the creation in 1993 of a book collection by the Presses Universitaires de France.\n\nMonique Canto-Sperber has been the head of the Ecole normale supérieure since 2005 (renewed in 2010). She has introduced the practice of scientific advisory committees in humanities and social sciences departments, created an International Council for Strategic Orientation, developed a specific ENS Diploma and started a rehabilitation of research spaces.\n\nShe has also encouraged the projection of the Ecole normale supérieure as an institution of research and higher education comparable to leading international research universities, rather than as a specific French creation. She has promoted the creation of a group of institutions called Paris Sciences et Lettres - Quartier latin. On February 2012, she was elected as the President of Paris Sciences et Lettres - Quartier latin.\n\nParis Sciences et Lettres – Quartier latin (PSL) is a new research university, made of cooperative actions between the École normale supérieure, the Collège de France, ESPCI ParisTech, Chimie ParisTech, Paris Observatory, Paris Dauphine University and the Curie Institute. \nParis Sciences et Lettres aims to rapidly become one of the world's outstanding universities with a strong international presence and a common citation policy for its publications (PSL Research University). PSL was chosen as an Excellence Initiative in July 2011 PSL* and was the beneficiary of a significant endowment.\nThe institutions which have founded PSL, recently joined by Mines ParisTech as well as the Conservatoire de Paris, the Conservatoire National Supérieur d'Art Dramatique CNSAD, the École des Beaux-Arts, the École nationale supérieure des arts décoratifs, La Fémis, the Lycée Henri-IV, the Pierre-Gilles de Gennes Foundation, the Louis-Bachelier Institute and the Rothschild Foundation (IBPC), enjoy a prestigious reputation. Each has an identity that PSL wishes to respect, in order to maintain the performances in teaching and research that form the basis of their excellence.\nPSL brings together a range of institutions with diverse histories and strong identities, bound together by the practices and values shared by all its members: teaching through innovative and groundbreaking research. Thus, the French National Centre for Scientific Research and Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, as transversal research organisms, have committed to PSL as founding members, and National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control as an associate member.\nParis Sciences et Lettres endorses a shared institutional ambition, a research strategy that encompasses the whole spectrum of academic disciplines and a common teaching strategy through the awarding of PSL degrees and shared initiatives to promote and disseminate knowledge.\nHeirs to the French meritocratic tradition, the institutions of PSL have come together to write a new chapter in their histories, in a shared commitment to continued renewal and a genuine spirit of openness.\n\nA specialist of ancient philosophy, Monique Canto-Sperber has worked on and translated dialogues of Plato. In her book, \"Greek Ethics\", Monique Canto-Sperber argues notably that the contemporary conception of Greek moral philosophy as essentially forms of eudemonism is an artefact and that contemporary debates only present a very partial view on the topic.\n\nShe has also played an important role in the introduction in France of contemporary debates in Anglo-American philosophy.\n\nShe has edited at the Presses Universitaires de France a \"Dictionnaire d'éthique et de philosophie morale\", with numerous French and international specialists, on major issues of moral philosophy.\n\nDuring the last 15 years, Monique Canto-Sperber has also written important works of political philosophy. In books such as \"Rules of Freedom\" or \"Does liberalism need to be saved?\", she offers an analysis of liberalism that attempt to give the notion a new legitimacy in progressive political thinking.\n\nRecent books such as \"L'Idée de guerre juste\" and \"La Morale du monde\" offer her vision of international relations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "324080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324080", "title": "N. F. S. Grundtvig", "text": "N. F. S. Grundtvig\n\nNikolaj Frederik Severin Grundtvig (; 8 September 1783 – 2 September 1872), most often referred to as N. F. S. Grundtvig, was a Danish pastor, author, poet, philosopher, historian, teacher and politician. He was one of the most influential people in Danish history, as his philosophy gave rise to a new form of nationalism in the last half of the 19th century. It was steeped in the national literature and supported by deep spirituality.\n\nGrundtvig holds a unique position in the cultural history of his country. Grundtvig and his followers are credited with being very influential in the formulation of modern Danish national consciousness. He was active during the Danish Golden Age, but his style of writing and fields of reference are not immediately accessible to a foreigner, thus his international importance does not match that of his contemporaries Hans Christian Andersen and Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nCalled Frederik rather than Nikolaj by those close to him, N. F. S. Grundtvig was the son of a Lutheran pastor, Johan Ottosen Grundtvig (1734–1813). He was brought up in a very religious atmosphere, although his mother also had great respect for old Norse legends and traditions. He was schooled in the tradition of the European Enlightenment, but his faith in reason was also influenced by German romanticism and the ancient history of the Nordic countries.\n\nIn 1791 he was sent to Thyregod in Sydjylland to live and study with pastor Laurids Svindt Feld (1750–1803). He subsequently studied at the Aarhus Katedralskole, the cathedral school of Aarhus, from 1798 until graduation. He left for Copenhagen in 1800 to study theology and was accepted to the University of Copenhagen in 1801. At the close of his university life, Grundtvig began to study Icelandic and the Icelandic Sagas.\n\nIn 1805 Grundtvig took a position as tutor in a house on the island of Langeland. The next three years he used his free time to study writers Shakespeare, Schiller, and Fichte. In 1802 his cousin, the philosopher Henrich Steffens, returned to Copenhagen full of the teaching of Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling. His lectures and the early poetry of Adam Oehlenschläger opened Grundtvig's eyes to the new era in literature. His first work, \"On the Songs in the Edda\", attracted no attention.\n\nReturning to Copenhagen in 1808, Grundtvig achieved greater success with his \"Northern Mythology\", and again in 1809 with a long drama, \"The Fall of the Heroic Life in the North\". Grundtvig boldly denounced the clergy of the city in his first sermon in 1810. When Grundtvig published the sermon three weeks later it offended the ecclesiastical authorities, and they demanded him punished.\n\nIn 1810 Grundtvig underwent a religious crisis and converted to a strongly held Lutheranism. He retired to his father's country parish in Udby as his chaplain. His new-found conviction was expressed in his \"The First World Chronicle\" () of 1812, a presentation of European history in which he attempted to explain how belief in God has been viewed throughout human history and in which he criticized the ideology of many prominent Danes. It won him notoriety among his peers and cost him several friends, notably the historian Christian Molbech. Upon his father's death in 1813, Grundtvig applied to be his successor in the parish but was rejected.\n\nIn the following years his rate of publication was staggering: aside from a continuing stream of articles and poems, he wrote a number of books, including two more histories of the world (1814 and 1817); the long historical poem \"Roskilde-Riim\" (\"Rhyme of Roskilde\"; 1813); and a book-sized commentary, \"Roskilde Saga\". From 1816 to 1819 he was editor of and almost sole contributor to a philosophical and polemical journal entitled \"Danne-Virke\", which also published poetry.\n\nFrom 1813 to 1815, he attempted to form a movement to support the Norwegians against the Swedish government. Later he preached on how the weakness of the Danish faith was the cause of the loss of Norway in 1814. His sermon was met by an enthusiastic congregation in Copenhagen. Grundtvig withdrew from the pulpit because of lacking his own parish, and being barred by other churches. In 1821 he resumed preaching briefly when granted the country living of Præstø, and returned to the capital the year after.\nIn 1825 Grundtvig published a pamphlet, \"The Church's Rejoinder\" (), a response to Henrik Nicolai Clausen's work on the doctrines, rites and constitutions of Protestantism and Roman Catholicism. A professor of theology at the University of Copenhagen, Clausen argued that although the Bible was the principal foundation of Christianity, it was in itself an inadequate expression of its full meaning. He described the church as a \"community for the purpose of advancing general religiousness.\" In his reply, Grundtvig denounced Clausen as an anti-Christian teacher and argued that Christianity was not a theory to be derived from the Holy Bible and elaborated by scholars. He questioned the right of theologians to interpret the Bible. Grundtvig was publicly prosecuted for libel and fined. The Church of Denmark forbade him to preach for seven years. During this time he published a collection of theological works, visited England three times (1829–31), and studied Anglo-Saxon.\n\nIn 1832 Grundtvig obtained permission to again enter active ministry. In 1839 he was called as pastor of the workhouse church of Vartov hospital in Copenhagen, a post he held until his death. Between 1837 and 1841 he published \"Sang-Værk til den Danske Kirke\" (Song Work for the Danish Church), a rich collection of sacred poetry; in 1838 he brought out a selection of early Scandinavian verse; in 1840 he edited the Anglo-Saxon poem \"The Phoenix\", with a Danish translation. In 1843 he visited England for a fourth time.\nFrom 1844 until after the First Schleswig War, Grundtvig took a prominent part in politics, developing from a conservative into an absolute liberal. In 1861 he received the titular rank of Bishop in the Church of Denmark, but without a see. He continued to write and publish until his death. He spoke from the pulpit at Vartov Church every Sunday until a few days before his death. His preaching attracted large congregations, and he soon had a following. His hymn book effected a great change in Danish church services, substituting the hymns of the national poets for the slow measures of the orthodox Lutherans. In all Grundtvig wrote or translated about 1500 hymns, including \"God's Word Is Our Great Heritage\" and \"Det kimer nu til julefest\".\n\nGrundtvig's theological development continued over his lifetime, and took a number of important turns. He moved from his \"Christian awakening\" of 1810 to believing in a congregational and sacramental Christianity in later years. He was most notable for the latter thinking. He always called himself a pastor, not a theologian, reflecting the distance between his ideas and academic theology. The chief characteristic of his theology was the substitution of the authority of the \"living word\" for the apostolic commentaries. He desired to see each congregation act as a practically independent community.\n\nGrundtvig is the ideological father of the folk high school, though his own ideas on education had another focus. He advocated reforming the ailing Sorø Academy into a popular school aiming at another form of higher education than what was common at the university. Rather than educating learned scholars, he believed the university should educate its students for active participation in society and popular life. Thus practical skills as well as national poetry and history should form an essential part of the instruction. This idea came very close to implementation during the reign of King Christian VIII, whose wife Caroline Amalie was an ardent supporter of Grundtvig. The death of the monarch in 1848 and the dramatic political development in Denmark during this and the following years put an end to these plans. However, by that time, one of Grundtvig's supporters, Kristen Kold, had already established the first folk high school.\n\nGrundtvig's ambitions for school reform were not limited to the popular folk high school. He also dreamed of forming a Great Nordic University (the School for Passion) to be situated at the symbolic point of intersection between the three Scandinavian countries in Gothenburg, Sweden. The two pillars of his school program, the School for Life (folk high school) and the School for Passion (university) were aimed at quite different horizons of life. The popular education should mainly be taught within a national and patriotic horizon of understanding, yet always keeping an open mind towards a broader cultural and intercultural outlook, while the university should work from a strictly universal, i.e. humane and scientific, outlook.\nThe common denominator of all Grundtvig's pedagogical efforts was to promote a spirit of freedom, poetry and disciplined creativity, within all branches of educational life. He promoted values such as wisdom, compassion, identification and equality. He opposed all compulsion, including exams, as deadening to the human soul. Instead Grundtvig advocated unleashing human creativity according to the universally creative order of life. Only \"willing hands make light work\". Therefore, a spirit of freedom, cooperation and discovery was to be kindled in individuals, in science, and in the civil society as a whole.\nIn 1815 Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin published the first edition of the titled in a Latin translation. Despite his lack of knowledge of Anglo-Saxon literature, Grundtvig quickly discovered a number of flaws in Thorkelin's rendering of the poems. After his heated debate with Thorkelin, Johan Bülow (1751–1828), who had sponsored Thorkelin's work, offered to support a new translation by Grundtvig — this time into Danish. The result, Bjovulfs Drape (1820), was the first modern language translation of Beowulf.\nGrundtvig went on to explore the extensive literature of the Anglo-Saxons which survived in Old English and Latin. In both poetry and prose, it revealed the spirituality of the early Church in Northern Europe. Grundtvig was very influenced by these ancient models of Christian and historical thought (notably the 8th-century Bede's \"Ecclesiastical History\", written in Latin). Using the resources of the Royal Library in Copenhagen and of the libraries at the universities of Exeter, Oxford and Cambridge in three successive summer visits to England (1829–31), he went on to make transcriptions of two of the four great codices of Anglo-Saxon poetry: the \"Exeter Book\" and the codex designated \"Junius 11\" in the Bodleian Library at Oxford. Although he thought to publish them, this project was never realized. \"Beowulf\" and Anglo-Saxon literature continued to be a major source of inspiration to Grundtvig. It had a wide-ranging influence upon his work.\n\nGrundtvig was married three times, the last time in his seventy-sixth year. His first wife, Elisabeth Blicher (1787–1851), was a clergyman's daughter. They were married in 1818 and had three children. His second wife, Marie Toft (1813–54) was the daughter of a landowner. She died a few months after giving birth to a son. In 1858, he married Asta Reedtz (1826–1890) of an old aristocratic Danish family. His son Svend Grundtvig (1824–83) collected and edited Danish ballads.\n\n\n\nNo comprehensive foreign language edition of his work exists. A three-volume edition in German, however, is under preparation and projects for an English edition are in progress as well. Grundtvig's secular poetical works were published in a nine-volume edition, the first seven volumes by his second son, the philologist Svend Grundtvig. The philological practice of this work, however, is not up to the standards of modern philology. His hymns have been collected in the philologically more stable five-volume edition \"Grundtvigs Sang-Værk\".\n\nThe best overall collection of his writings is the 10 volume edition \"Grundtvigs udvalgte Skrifter\" edited by Holger Begtrup (1859–1937). His enormous oeuvre is presented in Steen Johansen: \"Bibliografi over N.F.S. Grundtvigs Skrifter\" (I-IV, 1948–54).\n\nThe most important editions are:\n\n\n\nImportant, too, are the numerous articles in English published in the yearbook \"Grundtvig-Studier\" (Grundtvig Studies) from 1948 and onwards. Danish is the main language of the journal, but the English articles are prominent and increasing in recent years.\n\nThe most important works on Grundtvig are a series of dissertations published since the founding of \"Grundtvig-selskabet\" (The Grundtvig Society). All of them contain summaries in major languages, most of them in English. This series includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "17144896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17144896", "title": "Nihilist Faction", "text": "Nihilist Faction\n\nThe Nihilist Faction () was a Nihilist Anarchist organization in Greece, which claimed responsibility for a 28 May 1996 bombing of IBM offices in Athens. The attack caused extensive structural damage but no injuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "18385555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385555", "title": "Paul Moser", "text": "Paul Moser\n\nPaul K. Moser (born 1957 in Bismarck, North Dakota) is an American philosopher who writes on epistemology and the philosophy of religion. He is Professor of Philosophy at Loyola University Chicago and past editor of the \"American Philosophical Quarterly\". He is the author of many works in epistemology and the philosophy of religion, in which he has supported versions of epistemic foundationalism and volitional theism. His work brings these two positions together to support volitional evidentialism about theistic belief, in contrast to fideism and traditional natural theology. He draws from some epistemological and theological insights of the apostle Paul, Kierkegaard, P.T. Forsyth, H.R. Mackintosh, and H. H. Farmer, but he adds (i) a notion of purposively available evidence of God’s existence, (ii) a notion of authoritative evidence in contrast with spectator evidence, (iii) a notion of personifying evidence of God whereby some willing humans become salient evidence of God's existence, and (iv) a notion of convictional knowledge of divine reality. His most recent work emphasizes the importance of experiential foundational evidence from the self-manifestation of God's moral character to cooperative humans, particularly in moral conscience. An evidential role for experienced \"agapē\", along the lines of Romans 5:5, is central to his theistic epistemology, as is his view that God is self-authenticating or self-evidencing via self-manifestation and conviction toward unselfish love. One result is a distinctive approach to divine hiddenness and the evidence for God's reality and presence.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1745481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745481", "title": "Paul Reps", "text": "Paul Reps\n\nPaul Reps (15 September 1895 - 12 July 1990) was an American artist, poet, and author. He is best known for his unorthodox haiku-inspired poetry that was published from 1939 onwards. He is considered one of America's first haiku poets.\n\nIn association with his writing, Reps was also a well-received artist. Many of his books have artwork influenced by Zen Buddhism displayed in association with his writings.\n\nReps was widely travelled and spent a large amount of his time in Asia. In Japan, his art was widely accepted and he often went there in association with the displays of his artwork in galleries and to reaffirm his Buddhist understanding.\n\nIn the later years of his life, Reps made his home on the island of Maui in Hawaii. In the two years before his death, he lived at the Haven Institute with his friends Jock McKeen and Bennet Wong .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16608331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16608331", "title": "Peter Enns", "text": "Peter Enns\n\nPeter Eric Enns (born January 2, 1961) is an American Biblical scholar and theologian. He has written widely on hermeneutics, the relationship between religion and science, the creation–evolution controversy, and Old Testament interpretation. Outside of his academic work Enns is a contributor to \"HuffPost\" and \"Patheos\". He has also worked with Francis Collins' The BioLogos Foundation. His book \"Inspiration and Incarnation\" challenged conservative/mainstream Evangelical methods of biblical interpretation. His book \"The Evolution of Adam\", questions the belief that Adam was a historical figure. He also wrote \"The Bible Tells Me So: Why Defending Scripture Has Made Us Unable to Read It\" and \"The Sin of Certainty: Why God Desires Our Trust More than Our 'Correct' Beliefs\".\n\nPeter Enns was born in Passaic, New Jersey, (January 2, 1961) to German American immigrant parents. He grew up in River Vale, New Jersey and graduated from Pascack Valley High School (Hillsdale, New Jersey) in 1978. He holds a B.A. in behavioral science from Messiah College in Grantham, Pennsylvania (1982), an M.Div. from Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (1989), and an M.A. (1993) and Ph.D. (1994) from Harvard University (Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations).\n\nEnns returned to Westminster Theological Seminary in 1994 to begin his teaching career. He was tenured in 2000 and promoted to full professor in 2005 as a professor of Old Testament and Biblical hermeneutics. Among other duties, he served as Associate Academic Dean from 1998 to 2001, chair of the Hermeneutics (Ph.D.) Field Committee (1997-2000), and edited the \"Westminster Theological Journal\" (2000-2005). His publication of the book \"Inspiration and Incarnation\" led to loss of Enns's teaching position at Westminster Theological Seminary.\n\nEnns was a senior fellow of Biblical studies with the BioLogos Foundation, a Christian organization that \"explores, promotes, and celebrates the integration of science and Christian faith\". He wrote nearly 100 blog posts at the BioLogos Forum, \"Science and the Sacred.\" He also has written several pieces for \"The Huffington Post\"'s religion section.\n\nEnns is a member of the Society of Biblical Literature and has served on the Wisdom in Israel and Cognate Literature Session steering committee since 2006. He is also a member of the Institute for Biblical Research, where he served on the board of directors from 2004 to 2007 and the editorial board for the \"Bulletin for Biblical Research\" from 2002 to 2004.\n\nEnns is the Abram S. Clemens professor of biblical studies at Eastern University (St. Davids, Pennsylvania)\n\nEnns is married to Susan (1984) and has three children, Erich (1987), Elizabeth (1990), and Sophia (1993).\n\nEnns's academic interests include Old Testament theology, Biblical Theology, Wisdom Literature (especially Ecclesiastes), the New Testament use of the Old Testament, Second Temple literature, and the general issue of how the historical context of the Bible affects how the nature of Scripture is understood within Reformed tradition and Evangelical commitments. He has written many articles, essays, dictionary and encyclopedia entries, and book reviews on varied topics surrounding the Old Testament and its interpretation (see \"Books\" and \"Articles and Essays\" below). His 2008 edited volume (with Tremper Longman III), \"Dictionary of the Old Testament: Wisdom, Poetry, and Writings\" (IVP), won the \"Christianity Today\" “Award of Merit” for 2009 and the Evangelical Christian Publishers Association’s “2009 Christian Book of the Year” award in the Bible Reference and Study category. His 2012 publication, \"The Evolution of Adam: What the Bible Does and Doesn't Say about Human origins\", won the gold award in the Religion category of the 2012 ForeWord Reviews Book of the Year Awards. \nEnns has also contributed to a Bible curriculum for grades 1-12 \"Telling God's Story\", and a book on the hermeneutical implications of the discussion between Christianity and evolution, He has also taught courses at Princeton Theological Seminary, Harvard University, Fuller Theological Seminary, Eastern University, and Biblical Theological Seminary.\n\nEnns garnered significant attention for his 2005 book \"Inspiration and Incarnation: Evangelicals and the Problem of the Old Testament\". His stated purpose for writing the book is “to bring an evangelical doctrine of Scripture into conversation with the implications generated by some important themes in modern biblical scholarship—particularly the Old Testament—over the past 150 years”. Enns’s primary audience is those readers who find it difficult to maintain their faith in God because “familiar and conventional” evangelical approaches often mishandle the challenges raised by modern biblical scholarship. Enns writes that evangelicals commonly take a defensive posture to new ideas, and that such defenses are “exercises in special pleading, attempts to hold on to comfortable idea despite evidence that makes such ideas problematic. It is precisely the ineffectiveness of certain ways of thinking about the Bible that can sometimes cause significant cognitive dissonance for Christians who love and want to hold on to their Bible, but who also feel the weight of certain kinds of evidence”.\n\nEnns looks at three issues raised in modern biblical scholarship that he feels are mishandled by Evangelicals: (1) the strong similarities between the Old Testament and the literature of other ancient societies; (2), theological diversity among the Old Testament authors; (3) how New Testament writers interpreted the Old Testament in inventive ways that reflect Jewish practices of the time.\n\nIn all three cases, the Bible behaves in ways that don’t seem very “inspired,” but rather very “human.” Enns argues for an “incarnational” understanding of the Bible as a way to take seriously these types of challenges. This model draws an analogy between Jesus and the Bible: “In the same way that Jesus is—\"must be\"—both God and human, the Bible is also a divine and human book”. The Bible is not “an abstract, otherworldly book, dropped out of heaven. It was connected to and therefore spoke to those ancient cultures….precisely because Christianity is a historical religion, God’s word reflects the various historical moments in which Scripture was written”. Enns feels that the problems raised by the “human dimension” of the Bible for many evangelicals “has less to do with the Bible itself and more to do with our own preconceptions” of how the Bible “ought” to be. Enns advocates an incarnational model to help evangelicals reorient their expectations of Scripture and so come to peace with new developments in their understanding of the Bible.\n\n\"Inspiration and Incarnation\" has been endorsed by such notable scholars as Hugh G. M. Williamson, Bill T. Arnold, David W. Baker, Tremper Longman III, Joel Green and others for its creative approach to solving the modern problem of the Bible. While commending the book, Bruce Waltke also expressed serious disagreement with Enns' views on biblical inerrancy. It has also met with criticism by D. A. Carson, Paul Helm, and G. K. Beale, who claim it abandons the traditional evangelical doctrine of biblical inerrancy.\n\nBaker Books released the 10th-anniversary edition of \"Inspiration and Incarnation\" in the summer of 2015, which includes an essay on the reception and continued impact of the book.\n\nEnns's book, \"Inspiration and Incarnation: Evangelicals and the Problem of the Old Testament\", proved controversial at Westminster Theological Seminary (WTS). WTS President Peter Lillback expressed that it \"has caught the attention of the world so that we have scholars that love this book, and scholars who have criticized it very deeply…. We have students who have read it say it has liberated them. We have other students that say it's crushing their faith and removing them from their hope. We have churches that are considering it, and two Presbyteries have said they will not send students to study under Professor Enns here.\"\n\nThe general content of \"Inspiration and Incarnation\" was taught by Enns over his fourteen-year teaching career at Westminster Theological Seminary. It was only after the book’s publication in 2005 that a lengthy controversy ensued in the wake of major administrative changes, most notably the election of Peter Lillback as president in 2005. The main point of contention was whether the book was within the theological boundaries of the Westminster Confession of Faith. Westminster faculty members take an oath that their teaching will be in line with that confession.\n\nLillback initiated a series of regular faculty meetings (\"Faculty Theology Fellowship\") to discuss Enns and his book. Those meetings, moderated by Lillback, took place over a two-year period and led to the preparation of two written reports, at Lillback's direction, to aid the faculty in determining whether or not Enns was in violation of his oath. (Although Westminster has had a Board of Trustees for some time, it has historically been governed by its faculty, particularly in theological matters.) These reports were written by the two field committees: the Historical and Theological Field Committee, composed of faculty members generally opposed to Enns's book, and the Hermeneutics Field Committee, composed of members generally favorable towards Enns's ideas. After both committees reported their findings in the form of written reports, as well as written response by each committee to the other's report, faculty members William Edgar and Michael Kelly prepared a motion (known as the Edgar-Kelly Motion) declaring that Enns's writing and teaching were within the bounds of his faculty oath. All official documents used in these faculty debates, including both field committee reports and the Edgar-Kelly Motion, can be downloaded from the Westminster Theological Seminary web site here . The motion was approved by the faculty, 12-8, in December 2007. Despite the work of these committees and the resulting faculty vote, President Lillback referred the matter immediately to the Board of Trustees.\n\nOn March 26, 2008, the Board of Trustees at Westminster Theological Seminary voted 18–9 to suspend Enns from his position effective May 23, 2008. Though the faculty voted 12–8 that the work falls within the parameters of the Westminster Confession of Faith, the chairman of the Board said that a majority of the members on the Board at that time felt the book was incompatible with the Confession. As of August 1, 2008, Enns and the seminary agreed to part ways. Following the Board's vote, nine trustees resigned from the board.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33992754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33992754", "title": "Polina Zherebtsova", "text": "Polina Zherebtsova\n\nPolina Zherebtsova (, March 20, 1985) is a documentarian, poet and author of the diaries \"Ant in a Glass Jar\", covering her childhood, adolescence and youth that witnessed three Chechen wars.\n\nSince 2002, she has begun to work as a journalist. She is a member of PEN International and the Union of Journalists of Russia. She has been awarded the Janusz Korczak international prize in Jerusalem in two categories (narrative and documentary prose). In 2012, she was awarded The Andrei Sakharov Award “For Journalism as an Act of Conscience”. She was born in a mixed ethnic family in Grozny, Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Republic, USSR. Since 2013 she has received a political asylum in Finland.\n\nAuthor of the Report on war crimes in Chechnya in 1994–2004.\nru. eng.\n\nPolina was born in Grozny, USSR, and began keeping her diary when she was 9 years old, at the start of the First Chechen War. She was still living in Grozny when the Second Chechen War began. On October 21, 1999, the market in Grozny where she was helping her mother sell newspapers was shelled, and Polina was moderately wounded.\n\nPolitkovskaya described war as a journalist from the outside in. Polina Zherebtsova writes about war from inside the heart of darkness. Der Spiegel №10 /2015.\n\n\"Ant in a glass jar. Chechen diaries of 1994–2004\" has been translated into Ukrainian, Slovenian, French, Lithuanian, Finnish, German, Georgian, and Chechen.\n\nPolina Zherebtsova has given interviews to the BBC, The Guardian, Reuters, has participated in literary festivals around the world.\n\nShe has always offered publishing rights for translations of all of her books by herself, without the use of services of literary agents.\n\nShe came from a family of Don Cossacks.\nPolina's father was a lawyer, who died when Polina was a child. Her mother, Elena, worked as a senior goods manager at a large company. She devoted her spare time to her daughter's education.\nPolina grew in a family that equally revered books like the Torah, the Bible and the Koran. Since childhood, she had studied religion, history, and philosophy.\n\nPolina Zherebtsova was born in 1985 in Grozny and lived there for almost twenty years. She considers herself a cosmopolitan as she has multi-national ancestry. Polina's father died when she was very young. Polina's maternal grandfather Zherebtsov Anatoly Pavlovich, with whom she had formed a friendship, worked in Grozny for more than 25 years as a TV journalist-cameraman. Polina's maternal grandmother was a professional artist. Paternal grandfather was an actor and musician. Polina's paternal grandmother was a professional actress.\n\nIn 1994, Polina started keeping a diary in which she recorded what was happening around her. Her diaries cover her childhood, adolescence and youth that witnessed three Chechen wars. School, first love, quarrels with parents, what is familiar to any teenager, side by side in the life of Polina with the bombing, starvation, devastation and poverty.\nOn October 21, 1999 she was wounded by shrapnel during a missile attack on Grozny Central Market. \n\nSince 2002, she has begun to work as a journalist. In 2003–2004, she studied at the School of Correspondents.\n\nIn 2004, Chechen diary was completed when the author was 19 years old.\n\nIn 2006, she has been awarded the Janusz Korczak international prize in Jerusalem in two categories (narrative and documentary prose). Competition theme was \"terror and children.\"\n\nSince 2007, she has been a member of the Russian Union of Journalists.\n\nIn 2010, she graduated from the Stavropol North Caucasus University with a degree in General Psychology.\n\nIn 2011, \"Polina Zherebtsova's Journal: Chechnya 1999–2002\" was published.\n\nSince 2012, she has been a member of PEN International.\n\nIn 2012, she was awarded The Andrei Sakharov Award “For Journalism as an Act of Conscience”.\n\nIn 2013, she has received a political asylum in Finland. \n\nIn 2014, \"Ant in a Glass Jar\" was published.\n\nThe first military campaign started in 1994. At the beginning of the war, Zherebtsova's grandfather, Anatoly, was killed by shells from airplanes. Zherebtsova made the first serious entries in her diary at this time. She kept the diary to herself, and wrote about humorous and sad moments in the life of her neighbors and friends. Because of the name of her grandfather's stepfather, Zherebtsov, Polina was subjected to repeated insults at school.\n\nIn 1999 a new round of war in Grozny began in the North Caucasus, when Polina was 14 years old, which she describes in her diary.\n\nWhile helping her mother trade in the central market in Grozny after high school, Polina was wounded in her leg on October 21, 1999 when the marketplace was shelled, as described in a preliminary report \"The indiscriminate use of force by federal troops during the armed conflict in Chechnya in September–October 1999\".\n\nDue to injury and illness Polina and her mother didn't have time to escape from the war. She faced hunger and eviction along with other neighbors in the \"cleansing\", as described in pages of the diary. Her main goal was to make people understand the need to avoid war, especially in the same country. The diary also says that before the conflict began in 1994 in the Republic, the relationship between Russian and Chechen peoples was relatively friendly.\n\nIn February 2000, five months after her injury, 14-year-old Polina was operated on by surgeons of the 9th Moscow hospital, removing the biggest piece of shrapnel of the 16 pieces.\n\nShe had to change schools five times in the city, as all were destroyed in turn during the war in Chechnya. In 2002, 17-year-old Polina entered ChPGI (Chechen State Pedagogical Institute). In 2004 she graduated from the school of reporters with honors.\n\nSince 2003, she had worked as a staff member for the newspaper.\n\nIn 2005, Polina moved to Stavropol. In Stavropol she transferred to the North Caucasus State Technical University, where she obtained her diploma for General Psychology in 2010.\n\nIn 2006, Polina was the winner of the international literary contest named after Janusz Korczak in two categories. In the same year, she wrote a letter to Alexander Solzhenitsyn, asking for help with the publication of her diaries. Staff members of Solzhenitsyn's foundation helped Polina move to Moscow, but failed to publish the diaries.\n\nPolina continues to publish in the Moscow magazine \"Banner\", the magazine \"Big City\", and the newspaper \"Free Word\".\n\nIn 2011, Polina published the book \"The Diary of Polina Zherebtsova\", which is about Chechnya.\n\nLiveLib.ru LiveLib has included the book \"Ant in a glass jar. Chechen diaries of 1994–2004\" in a list \"The 100 best books of all time\" based on rating and voting results.\n\nLibrary \"Bestseller\" has awarded the book with the first place in the project \"With a book to peace and harmony\", dedicated to the presentation of books about wartime.\n\nBecause of threats which Polina reported she had begun to receive, by mail and phone from people representing themselves as \"patriots of Russia\", she left Russia in January 2012, taking political asylum in Finland.\n\nThreats were constantly set in the fact that I must stop writing on this subject if I want to live and if I don't want to have my family killed. It's unbearable to live in constant fear. I'm very worried about my family. We were able to go, and we asked for political asylum...\n\nIn 2013 she was granted political asylum.\n\nPolina signs petition \"Putin must go\".\n\nShe wrote a Letter to Khodorkovsky.\n\nI was very sympathetic to you when you were in prison. I considered the sentences you were given unjust, political. Even now I think that you may have been subjected to pressure. But you in your interview you said: “Putin is no weakling. I am ready to fight in order to keep the North Caucasus as part of our country. This is our land, we conquered and won it!” Consider: now you will have to share responsibility for those war crimes, which in the Caucasus are not the costs of “conquest”, but its essence.\n\nRead my diary.\n\nRead how we were conquered.\n\nHow we buried our murdered neighbours under fire, having first covered the graves with branches so that the hungry dogs would not tear the bodies apart. How thousands of women and children were murdered in the Chechen Republic.\n\nDo you still want integration with such a Russia?\n\nI do not.\n\nAnd I do not need her citizenship. I am embarrassed by it, like the shameful brand-mark on a slave.\n\nPolina Zherebtsova\n\n23.12.2013\n\n\n\n\"and so on\"\n\n\n\"\"Agonizing Zherebtsova's storytelling already caused a comparison to her predecessors – Anne Frank, who kept a diary during the Second World War, and Zlata Filipovic, whose diary tells about the war in Bosnia. Publishers highly valued the diary, however, for a long time, one after another, they refused to print it, being \"loyal to the government of modern Russia.\"-\"\n\nAlissa de Carbonne, \"Reuters\", United Kingdom.\n\nPolina Zherebtsova was 14 when the bombs started raining down. They hit the market where she worked with her mother, the streets she walked down daily, until Grozny was reduced to rubble, a hometown no longer recognisable. From the start, Zherebtsova wrote about it, an act of catharsis as much as a document on the second Chechnya war. She filled dozens of diaries in a messy, scribbled cursive, sometimes embellished with doodles – bomb blasts that look like flowers, blocks of flats seen from a distance.\n\nMiriam Elder, journalist, correspondent of The Guardian\n\nThe girl born in 1985 in the Soviet Union, sees herself not Russian or Chechen, but a citizen of the world. Her homeland is on the pages of books, written in Russian. But in war-torn Grozny, the word \"Russian\" is a stigma. Russians are \"guilty\" of everything around, although they themselves are a suffering party.\nBecause of the Russian name girl is beaten by peers at school in each of the five schools that she had a chance to study in. Over the years, Polina learned to fight to defend her dignity. In the book, a lot of the episodes show that courage and perseverance inspire respect, but cowards do not survive. Enemies are always challenging and eyeing for how the victim will behave: break or hold out.\nIn Russia, where the mother and daughter Zherebtsova get at the end of the book, they are considered \"Chechen women\", and they are again disenfranchised outcasts. Polina has repeatedly reiterated that she is a person of the world as her lineage intertwined many bloodlines. The concept of \"personality\" for her means more than \"a representative of some nation\", and “cultural identity” more than “national.\"\n\nAlice Orlova, Miloserdie.ru\n\nThese sheets from children's notebook are valuable: as evidence of surprising strength of the terrible events of the previous days, as the story of a person that existed inside a history textbook, as a document depicting the ruthless picture by a ruthless eye of a child, as a miraculously survived note of a contemporary. But it is also an extremely talented and thoughtful narration, in which are intertwined stories of growing up, love and death. You can say that this is: \"a document of the era\", \"adventure novel\",\"war prose\", a \"drama of growing up\", \"a love saga\" ... But all these definitions are not accurate, these pages are about: the value of individual human life above any geopolitical considerations, national differences and global concepts, and the love and the will to live is stronger than a call of blood and explosions of shells.\n\nPhilip Dzyadko, editor of \"Big City\" magazine.\n\nThe case of the war diaries is exceptional because among confusion in the news, reticence, and many conflicting assessments, just observations of ordinary people, who by the will of fate have become hostages of the war, can give an accurate picture of what is happening. One example of such literature now is the Chechen diary of Polina, the issue of which was a notable event. The book is a real diary that Grozny's resident Polina Zherebtsova kept as a teenager in 1999–2002, at the height of the second Chechen war. Some fragments of the diary were published earlier (in particular, for those Polina won a literary prize in Jerusalem named after Janusz Korczak in 2006), but to publish the entire book she managed not at once since no publishing house take the responsibility to publish \"the truth about Chechnya\".\n\nLydia Chesed, a critic. “Location – the war.”, magazines.russ.ru\n\nThis book can be quoted from any place and in any order. And everything will be an endless terror. Perhaps you can rashly decide that reading is the only way to get people to reject war forever. Polina kept Chechen diaries from 1994 to 2004: 10 years of fire, death, hunger, cold, diseases, humiliations, lies, betrayals, sadism – all, that together is denoted by four letters: \"hell.\"\n\nIgor Zotov, www.kultpro.ru\n\nChechen diaries of Polina Zherebtsova are real documents of the era, without any quotes and winks, without the embarrassment for the lack of soft language, which is fully justified by the events that served as material for the diaries. The real document of the era, which also has real artistic value. So it is definitely worth reading.\n\nElena Makeyenko, Siburbia.ru, “Diary as a way to survive”\n\nDiary of Polina Zherebtsova is valuable by the fact that it upsets the balance of the roles and calls for the voices of other characters: girls, women, old women, waiting for the death from young, strong Russian men in military uniforms. Polina called them \"Germans\" or \"white\" because how can she, born at the turn of the Soviet Union and growing up with the Soviet films, name enemies any different? Russians as \"Germans\", shooting in poor or old women or cackling over the girl who skedaddle from them on all fours – these paintings are not so easy to accept even for the most liberal and unblinkered consciousness, but it makes the effort of every reader to open \"Diary\" even more valuable.\n\nElena Rybakova, the correspondent of \"Moscow News\"\n\nI read the diaries of Polina Zherebtsova in small portions, they simply cannot be read in bulk. And I am thinking about the following ...\nIt was also very difficult for us to live in the mid-nineties. Well, or so it seemed to us ...\nThen one side demanded an immediate end to the war and the recognition of independence, while other side – fighting to the bitter end.\nBut what about those who have been there, in Chechnya, between the carpet bombing and sweeps from one side and stoned fanatics on the other – those were rarely remembered by both sides. People were expendable.\nLet's not call it the flowering of freedoms and human rights. Yes, we were beginning to travel abroad, to discover the world, to read a free press, to earn money. And beside us, in our country, people lived like that.\nDo you think this all could pass without consequences? For free?\nIt seems that today a little more is talked about those who are now surviving and dying in the Donbass. A little more. But this will repeat itself over and over, I'm afraid, as long as we as a society, as a nation, as a country do not learn a simple truth: the defenceless people come first and foremost.\n\nAndrew S Desnitsky, Russian Bible scholar, translator, essayist and writer. Doctor of Philology.\n\nPolina Zherebtsova with her moral stance is much more convincing as a symbol of resistance to the fascist regime than Khodorkovsky and Navalny.\n\nAndrei Piontkovsky\n\n"}
{"id": "650690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650690", "title": "Purgatorio", "text": "Purgatorio\n\nPurgatorio (; Italian for \"Purgatory\") is the second part of Dante's \"Divine Comedy\", following the \"Inferno\", and preceding the \"Paradiso\". The poem was written in the early 14th century. It is an allegory telling of the climb of Dante up the Mount of Purgatory, guided by the Roman poet Virgil, except for the last four cantos at which point Beatrice takes over as Dante's guide.\n\nPurgatory in the poem is depicted as a mountain in the Southern Hemisphere, consisting of a bottom section (Ante-Purgatory), seven levels of suffering and spiritual growth (associated with the seven deadly sins), and finally the Earthly Paradise at the top. Allegorically, the \"Purgatorio\" represents the penitent Christian life. In describing the climb Dante discusses the nature of sin, examples of vice and virtue, as well as moral issues in politics and in the Church. The poem outlines a theory that all sins arise from love – either perverted love directed towards others' harm, or deficient love, or the disordered or excessive love of good things.\n\nAs described in the \"Inferno\", the first twenty-four hours of Dante's journey took place on earth and started on the evening of Maundy Thursday, 24 March (or 7 April) 1300 (\"Inf.\" I and II), and the next full day (Good Friday) was spent exploring the depths of Hell with Virgil as a guide (\"Inf.\" III-XXXIV.69). Dante and Virgil spent the next day ascending from Hell to see the stars (\"Inf.\" XXXIV.70-139). They arrive at the shore of the Mountain of Purgatory—the only land in the Southern Hemisphere—at 6 AM on the morning of Easter Sunday, which is 6 PM on Sunday evening in Jerusalem, since the two points are antipodal. Dante describes Hell as existing underneath Jerusalem, having been created by the impact of Lucifer's fall; the Mountain of Purgatory was created by a displacement of rock caused by the same event. The \"Purgatorio\" picks up where the \"Inferno\" left off, describing Dante's three-and-one-day trip up the mountain that ends with Dante in the Earthly Paradise at the time of noon on Wednesday, March 30 (or April 13).\n\nIn \"Purg.\" I.4-9, with the sun rising on Easter Sunday, Dante announces his intention to describe Purgatory by invoking the mythical Muses, as he did in Canto II of the \"Inferno\":\nNow I shall sing the second kingdom<br>\nthere where the soul of man is cleansed,<br>\nmade worthy to ascend to Heaven.<br>\n\nHere from the dead let poetry rise up,<br>\nO sacred Muses, since I am yours.<br>\nHere let Calliope arise...\nAt the shores of Purgatory, Dante and Virgil meet Cato, a pagan who has been placed by God as the general guardian of the approach to the mountain (his symbolic significance has been much debated). The \"Purgatorio\" demonstrates the medieval knowledge of a spherical Earth, with Dante referencing the different stars visible in the Southern Hemisphere, the altered position of the sun, and the various timezones of the Earth. For instance, at the start of Canto II, the reader learns that it is dawn in Purgatory; Dante conveys this concept by explaining that it is sunset at Jerusalem (antipodal to the Mount of Purgatory), midnight (six hours later) over India on the River Ganges (with the constellation Libra overhead there), and noon (six hours earlier) over Spain. The journey is conceived as taking place during the vernal equinox, when the days and nights are of the same length.\n\"By now the sun was crossing the horizon<br>\nof the meridian whose highest point<br>\ncovers Jerusalem; and from the Ganges,<br>\n<br>\nnight, circling opposite the sun, was moving<br>\ntogether with the Scales that, when the length<br>\nof dark defeats the day, desert night's hands;<br>\n<br>\nso that, above the shore that I had reached,<br>\nthe fair Aurora's white and scarlet cheeks<br>\nwere, as Aurora aged, becoming orange.\"\n\nIn a contrast to Charon's ferry across the Acheron in the \"Inferno\", Christian souls are escorted by an Angel Boatman from their gathering place somewhere near Ostia, the seaport of Rome at the mouth of the Tiber, through the Pillars of Hercules across the seas to the Mountain of Purgatory. The souls arrive singing \"In exitu Israel de Aegypto\" (Canto II). In his \"Letter to Cangrande\", Dante explains that this reference to Israel leaving Egypt refers both to the redemption of Christ and to \"the conversion of the soul from the sorrow and misery of sin to the state of grace\".\n\nThe poets begin to climb in the early hours of morning. On the lower slopes (designated as \"Ante-Purgatory\" by commentators), Dante and Virgil encounter two main categories of souls whose penitent Christian life was delayed or deficient: the excommunicate and the late repentant. The former are detained at the base of the cliff for a period thirty times as long as their period of contumacy. The excommunicate include Manfred of Sicily. Manfred explains that prayer from those currently alive and in the grace of God may reduce the amount of time a soul spends in purgatory. The meeting with Manfred is over by about 9 AM. (Canto III).\n\nThe Late-Repentant includes (1) those too lazy or too preoccupied to repent (the Indolent), (2) those who repented at the last minute without formally receiving last rites, as a result of violent deaths, and (3) the Negligent Rulers. These souls will be admitted to Purgatory thanks to their genuine repentance, but must wait outside for an amount of time equal to their lives on earth. The lazy include Belacqua (possibly a deceased friend of Dante), whom Dante is relieved to discover here, rather than in Hell. The meeting with Belacqua is over by noon (Canto IV).\n\nThose not receiving last rites include Pia de' Tolomei of Siena, who was murdered by her husband, Nello della Pietra of the Maremma (Canto V):\n\"may you remember me, who am La Pia;<br>\nSiena made, Maremma unmade me:<br>\nhe who, when we were wed, gave me his pledge<br>\nand then, as nuptial ring, his gem, knows that.\"\nAlso in this category is the troubadour Sordello who, like Virgil, is from Mantua. When Sordello discovers the great poet's identity, he bows down to him in honour. This helps keep Virgil in the foreground of the poem, since (as a resident of Limbo) Virgil is less qualified as a guide here than he was in Hell. As a resident of Purgatory, Sordello is able to explain the Rule of the Mountain: that after sunset souls are incapable of climbing any further. Allegorically, the sun represents God, meaning that progress in the penitent Christian life can only be made through Divine Grace Virgil's conversation with Sordello ends as the sun is moving downward, that is, after 3 PM (Cantos VI to VII).\n\nIt is sunset, so Dante and his companions stop for the night in the beautiful Valley of the Princes where they meet persons whose preoccupation with public and private duties hampered their spiritual progress, particularly deceased monarchs such as Rudolph, Ottokar, Philip the Bold, and Henry III (Cantos VII and VIII). John Ciardi writes that these Negligent Rulers are \"elevated above their negligent subjects because their special duties made it difficult for them to think about the welfare of their own souls\". Dante also speaks with the souls of contemporary Italian statesmen Currado Malaspina and Nino Visconti, the latter being a personal friend whom Dante rejoices at not having found among the damned.\n\nAs night approaches, the souls sing the Compline hymns \"Salve Regina\" and \"Te lucis ante terminum\". Dante's beautiful description of evening in this valley was the inspiration for a similar passage in Byron's \"Don Juan\":\n\nDante falls asleep at 8:30 PM; his dream takes place just before the dawn of Easter Monday and he awakens just after 8 AM. Waking, Dante finds that he has been carried up to the gate of Purgatory proper. This gate has three steps: polished white (reflecting the purity of the penitent's true self), black (the colour of mourning; cracked in the shape of a Christian cross), and red (symbolising the blood of Christ and the restoration of true life) (Canto IX).\n\nThe gate of Purgatory, Peter's Gate, is guarded by an angel who uses the point of his sword to draw the letter \"P\" (signifying \"peccatum\", sin) seven times on Dante's forehead, bidding him \"take heed that thou wash / These wounds, when thou shalt be within.\" With the passage of each terrace and the corresponding purgation of his soul that the pilgrim receives, one of the \"P\"s will be erased by the angel granting passage to the next terrace. The angel at Peter's Gate uses two keys, silver (remorse) and gold (reconciliation) to open the gate – both are necessary for redemption and salvation.\n\nAfter passing through the gate of Purgatory proper, Virgil guides the pilgrim Dante through the mountain's seven terraces. These correspond to the seven deadly sins or \"seven roots of sinfulness\": Pride, Envy, Wrath, Sloth, Avarice (and Prodigality), Gluttony, and Lust. The classification of sin here is more psychological than that of the \"Inferno\", being based on motives, rather than actions. It is also drawn primarily from Christian theology, rather than from classical sources. The core of the classification is based on love: the first three terraces of Purgatory relate to perverted love directed towards actual harm of others, the fourth terrace relates to deficient love (i.e. sloth or acedia), and the last three terraces relate to excessive or disordered love of good things. Each terrace purges a particular sin in an appropriate manner. Those in Purgatory can leave their circle voluntarily, but will only do so when they have corrected the flaw within themselves that led to committing that sin.\n\nThe structure of the poetic description of these terraces is more systematic than that of the \"Inferno,\" and associated with each terrace are an appropriate prayer and beatitude. Robert Hollander describes the shared features of all the terraces as \"(1) description of the physical aspect of the terrace, (2) exemplars of the virtue that counters the sin repented here, (3) description of the penitents, (4) recitation of their sins by particular penitents, (5) exemplars of the vice, (6) appearance to Dante of the angel representing the countering virtue\".\n\nThe first three terraces of Purgatory relate to sins caused by a perverted love directed towards actual harm of others.\n\nThe first of the sins is Pride. Dante and Virgil begin to ascend this terrace shortly after 9 AM. On the terrace where proud souls purge their sin, Dante and Virgil see beautiful sculptures expressing humility, the opposite virtue. The first example is of the Annunciation to the Virgin Mary, where she responds to the angel Gabriel with the words \"Ecce ancilla Dei\" (\"Behold the handmaid of the Lord,\" Luke 1:38). An example of humility from classical history is the Emperor Trajan, who, according to a medieval legend, once stopped his journey to render justice to a poor widow (Canto X).\n\nAlso associated with humility is an expanded version of the Lord's Prayer:\nOur Father, You who dwell within the heavens<br>\nbut are not circumscribed by them out of<br>\nYour greater love for Your first works above,<br>\n<br>\nPraised be Your name and Your omnipotence,<br>\nby every creature, just as it is seemly<br>\nto offer thanks to Your sweet effluence.<br>\n<br>\nYour kingdom's peace come unto us, for if<br>\nit does not come, then though we summon all<br>\nour force, we cannot reach it of our selves.<br>\n<br>\nJust as Your angels, as they sing Hosanna,<br>\noffer their wills to You as sacrifice,<br>\nso may men offer up their wills to You.<br>\n<br>\nGive unto us this day the daily manna<br>\nwithout which he who labors most to move<br>\nahead through this harsh wilderness falls back.<br>\n<br>\nEven as we forgive all who have done<br>\nus injury, may You, benevolent,<br>\nforgive, and do not judge us by our worth.<br>\n<br>\nTry not our strength, so easily subdued,<br>\nagainst the ancient foe, but set it free<br>\nfrom him who goads it to perversity.\" \nAfter being introduced to humility, Dante and Virgil meet the souls of the proud, who are bent over by the weight of huge stones on their backs. As they walk around the terrace, they are able to profit from the sculpted examples of humility. The first of these souls is Omberto Aldobrandeschi, whose pride lies in his descent (\"I was Italian, son of a great Tuscan: / my father was Guiglielmo Aldobrandesco\"), although he is learning to be more humble (\"I / do not know if you have heard his name\"). Oderisi of Gubbio is an example of pride in achievements – he was a noted artist of illuminated manuscripts. Provenzano Salvani, leader of the Sienese Ghibellines, is an example of pride in dominating others (Canto XI).\n\nIn Canto XIII, Dante points out, with \"frank self-awareness,\" that pride is also a serious flaw of his own:\n\n\"I fear much more the punishment below;<br>\nmy soul is anxious, in suspense; already<br>\nI feel the heavy weights of the first terrace\"\nAfter his conversations with the proud, Dante notes further sculptures on the pavement below, this time illustrating pride itself. The sculptures show Satan (Lucifer), the building of the Tower of Babel, King Saul, Niobe, Arachne, King Rehoboam, and others.\n\nThe poets reach the stairway to the second terrace at noon. As they ascend, an angel brushes Dante's forehead with his wings, erasing the letter \"P\" (\"peccatum\") corresponding to the sin of pride, and Dante hears the beatitude \"Beati pauperes spiritu\" (\"Blessed are the poor in spirit\", Matthew 5:3) (Canto XII).\n\nEnvy is the sin that \"looks with grudging hatred upon other men's gifts and good fortune, taking every opportunity to run them down or deprive them of their happiness\". (This in contrast to covetousness, the excessive desire to have things like money.) As one of the envious souls on this terrace says:\n\"My blood was so afire with envy that,<br>\nwhen I had seen a man becoming happy,<br>\nthe lividness in me was plain to see.\"\nOn entering the terrace of the envious, Dante and Virgil first hear voices on the air telling stories of generosity, the opposite virtue. There is, as in all the other terraces, an episode from the life of the Virgin Mary; this time, the scene from the Life of the Virgin is the Wedding at Cana, in which she expresses her joy for the newly married couple and encourages Christ to perform his first miracle. There is also Jesus' saying \"Love your enemies.\" A classical story shows the friendship between Orestes and Pylades.\n\nThe souls of the envious wear penitential grey cloaks, and their eyes are sewn shut with iron wire, resembling the way a falconer sews shut the eyes of a falcon in order to train it. This results in audible, rather than visual, examples here (Canto XIII).\nThe souls of the envious include Guido del Duca, who speaks bitterly about the ethics of people in towns along the River Arno:\n\"That river starts its miserable course<br>\namong foul hogs, more fit for acorns than<br>\nfor food devised to serve the needs of man.<br>\n<br>\nThen, as that stream descends, it comes on curs<br>\nthat, though their force is feeble, snap and snarl;<br>\nscornful of them, it swerves its snout away.<br>\n<br>\nAnd, downward, it flows on; and when that ditch,<br>\nill-fated and accursed, grows wider, it<br>\nfinds, more and more, the dogs becoming wolves.<br>\n<br>\nDescending then through many dark ravines,<br>\nit comes on foxes so full of deceit<br>\nthere is no trap that they cannot defeat.\"\nThe voices on the air also include examples of envy. The classical example is Aglauros, who, according to Ovid, was turned to stone because she was jealous of Hermes' love for her older sister Herse. The Biblical example is Cain, mentioned here not for his act of fratricide, but for the jealousy of his younger brother Abel that led to it (Canto XIV).\n\nAs he is leaving the terrace, the dazzling light of the terrace's angel causes Dante to reveal his scientific knowledge, observing that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection \"as theory and experiment will show\" (Canto XV).\n\nOn the terrace of the wrathful, which the poets reach at 3 PM, examples of meekness (the opposite virtue) are given to Dante as visions in his mind. The scene from the Life of the Virgin in this terrace of purgation is the Finding in the Temple. Whereas most parents would be angry at their child for worrying them, Mary is loving and understanding of Christ's motives behind his three-day disappearance. In a classical example, the wife of Peisistratos wanted a young man executed for embracing their daughter, to which Peisistratos responded: \"What shall we do to one who'd injure us / if one who loves us earns our condemnation?\" Saint Stephen provides a Biblical example, drawn from Acts 7:54–60 (Canto XV):\nNext I saw people whom the fire of wrath<br>\nhad kindled, as they stoned a youth and kept<br>\non shouting loudly to each other: Kill!<br>\n<br>\nKill! Kill! I saw him now, weighed down by death,<br>\nsink to the ground, although his eyes were bent<br>\nalways on Heaven: they were Heaven's gates,<br>\n<br>\nPraying to his high Lord, despite the torture,<br>\nto pardon those who were his persecutors;<br>\nhis look was such that it unlocked compassion.\"\nThe souls of the wrathful walk around in acrid smoke, which symbolises the blinding effect of anger:\nDarkness of Hell and of a night deprived<br>\nof every planet, under meager skies,<br>\nas overcast by clouds as sky can be,<br>\n<br>\nhad never served to veil my eyes so thickly<br>\nnor covered them with such rough-textured stuff<br>\nas smoke that wrapped us there in Purgatory;<br>\n<br>\nmy eyes could not endure remaining open;\nMarco Lombardo discourses with Dante on free will – a relevant topic, since there is no point being angry with someone who has no choice over his actions (Canto XVI). Dante also sees visions with examples of wrath, such as Procne, Haman and Lavinia.\n\nThe prayer for this terrace is the \"Agnus Dei\": \"Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi, miserere nobis... dona nobis pacem\" (\"Lamb of God, you who take away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us... grant us peace\") The poets leave the third terrace just after nightfall (Canto XVII).\n\nWhile staying on the fourth terrace, Virgil is able to explain to Dante the organization of Purgatory and its relationship to perverted, deficient, or misdirected love. The three terraces they have seen so far have purged the proud (\"he who, through abasement of another, / hopes for supremacy\"), the envious (\"one who, when he is outdone, / fears his own loss of fame, power, honor, favor; / his sadness loves misfortune for his neighbor.\"), and the wrathful (\"he who, over injury / received, resentful, for revenge grows greedy / and, angrily, seeks out another's harm.\"). Deficient and misdirected loves are about to follow. Virgil's discourse on love concludes at midnight (Cantos XVII and XVIII).\n\nOn the fourth terrace we find souls whose sin was that of deficient love – that is, sloth or acedia. Since they had failed in life to act in pursuit of love, here they are engaged in ceaseless activity. The examples of sloth and of zeal, its opposite virtue, are called out by these souls as they run around the terrace. A scene from the life of the Virgin outlined in this terrace is the Visitation, with Mary going \"in haste\" to visit her cousin Elizabeth. These examples also include episodes from the lives of Julius Caesar and Aeneas. This activity also replaces a verbal prayer for this terrace. Since the formerly slothful are now too busy to converse at length, this section of the poem is a short one.\n\nAllegorically, spiritual laziness and lack of caring lead to sadness, and so the beatitude for this terrace is \"Beati qui lugent\" (\"Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted,\" Matthew 5:4) (Canto XVIII and XIX).\n\nDante's second night's sleep occurs while the poets are on this terrace, and Dante dreams shortly before Tuesday's dawn of a Siren, symbol of disordered or excessive love represented by greed, gluttony and lust. The dream ends in the light of the sun, and the two poets climb toward the fifth terrace (Canto XIX).\n\nOn the last three terraces are those who sinned by loving good things, but loving them in an excessive or disordered way.\n\nOn the fifth terrace, excessive concern for earthly goods – whether in the form of greed, ambition or extravagance – is punished and purified. The avaricious and prodigal lie face-down on the ground, unable to move. Their prayer is \"Adhaesit pavimento anima mea\", taken from Psalm 119:25 (\"My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word\"), which is a prayer expressing the desire to follow God's law. Dante meets the shade of Pope Adrian V, an exemplar of desire for ecclesiastical power and prestige, who directs the poets on their way (Canto XIX).\n\nThe scene from the Life of the Virgin, used here to counter the sin of avarice, is the humble birth of Christ. Further down the terrace, Hugh the Great personifies greed for worldly wealth and possessions. He bemoans the way that, in contrast, avarice has motivated the actions of his successors, and \"prophesies\" events which occurred after the date in which the poem is set, but before the poem was written:\n\"The other, who once left his ship as prisoner<br>\nI see him sell his daughter, bargaining<br>\nas pirates haggle over female slaves.<br>\n<br>\nO Avarice, my house is now your captive:<br>\nit traffics in the flesh of its own children<br>\nwhat more is left for you to do to us?<br>\n<br>\nThat past and future evil may seem less,<br>\nI see the fleur-de-lis enter Anagni<br>\nand, in His vicar, Christ made prisoner.<br>\n<br>\nI see Him mocked a second time; I see<br>\nthe vinegar and gall renewed and He<br>\nis slain between two thieves who're still alive.<br>\n<br>\nAnd I see the new Pilate, one so cruel<br>\nthat, still not sated, he, without decree,<br>\ncarries his greedy sails into the Temple.\"\n\nThese events include Charles II of Naples selling his daughter into marriage to an elderly and disreputable man, and Philip IV of France (\"the fleur-de-lis\") arresting Pope Boniface VIII in 1303 (a pope destined for Hell, according to the \"Inferno\", but still, in Dante's view, the Vicar of Christ). Dante also refers to the suppression of the Knights Templar at Philip's instigation in 1307, which freed Philip from debts he owed to the order. Following the exemplars of avarice (these are Pygmalion, Midas, Achan, Ananias and Sapphira, Heliodorus, Polymestor, and Crassus), there is a sudden earthquake accompanied by the shouting of \"Gloria in excelsis Deo\". Dante desires to understand the cause of the earthquake, but he does not question Virgil about it (Canto XX).\n\nIn a scene that Dante links to the episode where Jesus meets two disciples on the road to Emmaus, Dante and Virgil are overtaken by a shade who eventually reveals himself as the Roman poet Statius, author of the \"Thebaid\". Statius explains the cause of the earthquake: there is a tremor when a soul knows that it is ready to ascend to heaven, which he has just experienced. Dante presents Statius, without obvious or understandable basis, as a convert to Christianity; as a Christian, his guidance will supplement Virgil's. Statius is overjoyed to find himself in the company of Virgil, whose \"Aeneid\" he so greatly admired (Canto XXI).\n\nDante follows Virgil and Statius upward. Statius explains that he was not avaricious but prodigal, but that he \"converted\" from prodigality by reading Virgil, which directed him to poetry and to God. Statius explains how he was baptized, but he remained a secret Christian—this is the cause of his purgation of Sloth on the previous terrace. Statius asks Virgil to name his fellow poets and figures in Limbo, which he does (Canto XXII).\n\nIt is between 10 and 11 AM, and the three poets begin to circle the sixth terrace where the gluttonous are purged, and more generally, those who over-emphasised food, drink, and bodily comforts. In a scene reminiscent of the punishment of Tantalus, they are starved in the presence of trees whose fruit is forever out of reach. The examples here are given by voices in the trees. The Virgin Mary, who shared her Son's gifts with others at the Wedding at Cana, and John the Baptist, who only lived on locusts and honey (Matthew 3:4), is an example of the virtue of temperance. A classical example of the opposite vice of gluttony is the drunkenness of the Centaurs that led to the Battle of Centaurs and Lapiths.\n\nThe prayer for this terrace is \"Labia mea Domine\" (Psalm 51:15: \"O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise\") These are the opening words from the daily Liturgy of the Hours, which is also the source of prayers for the fifth and seventh terraces (Cantos XXII through XXIV).\n\nHere Dante also meets his friend Forese Donati and his poetic predecessor Bonagiunta Orbicciani. Bonagiunta has kind words for Dante's earlier poem, \"La Vita Nuova\", describing it as the \"dolce stil novo\" (\"sweet new style\"). He quotes the line \"Ladies that have intelligence of love,\" written in praise of Beatrice, whom he will meet later in the \"Purgatorio\":\n\"Ladies that have intelligence of Love,<br>\nI of my lady wish with you to speak;<br>\nNot that I can believe to end her praise,<br>\nBut to discourse that I may ease my mind.<br>\nI say that when I think upon her worth,<br>\nSo sweet doth Love make himself feel to me,<br>\nThat if I then should lose not hardihood,<br>\nSpeaking, I should enamour all mankind.\"\nIt is 2:00 PM when the three poets leave the sixth terrace and begin their ascent to the seventh terrace, meaning that they have spent four hours among the Gluttonous. During the climb, Dante wonders how it is possible for bodiless souls to have the gaunt appearance of the souls being starved here. In explaining, Statius discourses on the nature of the soul and its relationship to the body (Canto XXV).\n\nThe terrace of the lustful has an immense wall of flame through which everyone must pass. As a prayer, they sing the hymn \"Summae Deus Clementiae\" (\"God of Supreme Clemency\") from the Liturgy of the Hours. Souls repenting of misdirected sexual desire call forth in praises of chastity and marital fidelity (the Virgin Mary's chastity and the chastity of Diana) (Canto XXV). \n\nTwo groups of souls run through the flames calling out examples of lust (Sodom and Gomorrah by the homosexual and Pasiphaë by the heterosexual). As they circle the terrace, the two groups of penitents greet each other in a way Dante compares to ants:\n\"There, on all sides, I can see every shade<br>\nmove quickly to embrace another shade,<br>\ncontent they did not pause with their brief greeting,<br>\n<br>\nas ants, in their dark company, will touch<br>\ntheir muzzles, each to each, perhaps to seek<br>\nnews of their fortunes and their journeyings.\"\n\nAmong the flames, which he dare not enter, are the poets of love Guido Guinizelli and Arnaut Daniel, with whom Dante speaks (Canto XXVI). \n\nShortly before sunset, the Poets are greeted by the Angel of Chastity, who instructs them to pass through the wall of fire. By reminding Dante that Beatrice can be found in the Earthly Paradise on the other side, Virgil finally persuades Dante to pass through the intense fire. After the poets pass through the flame, the sun sets and they lie down to sleep on the steps between the final terrace and the Earthly Paradise. On these steps, just before the dawn of Wednesday morning, Dante has his third dream: a vision of Leah and Rachel. They are symbols of the active (non-monastic) and contemplative (monastic) Christian lives, both of which are important \n\".. in my dream, I seemed to see a woman<br>\nboth young and fair; along a plain she gathered<br>\nflowers, and even as she sang, she said:<br>\n<br>\nWhoever asks my name, know that I'm Leah,<br>\nand I apply my lovely hands to fashion<br>\na garland of the flowers I have gathered.<br>\n<br>\nTo find delight within this mirror I<br>\nadorn myself; whereas my sister Rachel<br>\nnever deserts her mirror; there she sits<br>\n<br>\nall day; she longs to see her fair eyes gazing,<br>\nas I, to see my hands adorning, long:<br>\nshe is content with seeing, I with labor.\"\nDante awakens with the dawn, and the Poets continue up the rest of the ascent until they come in sight of the Earthly Paradise (Canto XXVII).\n\nAt the summit of Mount Purgatory is the Earthly Paradise or Garden of Eden. Allegorically, it represents the state of innocence that existed before Adam and Eve fell from grace – the state which Dante's journey up Mount Purgatory has been recapturing. Here Dante meets Matilda, a woman whose literal and allegorical identity \"is perhaps the most tantalizing problem in the \"Comedy\".\"\nCritics up to the early twentieth century have connected her with the historical Matilda of Tuscany, but others suggested a connection with the dream of Leah in Canto XXVII. However, Matilda clearly prepares Dante for his meeting with Beatrice, the woman to whom (historically) Dante dedicated his previous poetry, the woman at whose request (in the story) Virgil was commissioned to bring Dante on his journey, and the woman who (allegorically) symbolizes the path to God (Canto XXVIII).\n\nWith Matilda, Dante witnesses a procession which forms an allegory within the allegory, somewhat like Shakespeare's play within a play. It has a very different style from the \"Purgatorio\" as a whole, having the form of a masque, where the characters are walking symbols rather than real people. The procession consists of (Canto XXIX):\n\nThe appearance of Beatrice, and a dramatic reconciliation scene between Beatrice and Dante, in which she rebukes his sin (Cantos XXX and XXXI), help cover the disappearance of Virgil, who, as a symbol of non-Christian philosophy and humanities, can help him no further in his approach to God (and in the rest of the \"Divine Comedy\", Beatrice is Dante's guide):\n\"But Virgil had deprived us of himself,<br>\nVirgil, the gentlest father, Virgil, he<br>\nto whom I gave my self for my salvation;<br>\n<br>\nand even all our ancient mother lost<br>\nwas not enough to keep my cheeks, though washed<br>\nwith dew, from darkening again with tears.\" \n\nDante then passes through the River Lethe, which erases the memory of past sin (Canto XXXI), and sees an allegory of Biblical and Church history. This allegory includes a denunciation of the corrupt papacy of the time: a harlot (the papacy) is dragged away with the chariot (the Church) by a giant (the French monarchy, which under King Philip IV engineered the move of the Papal Seat to Avignon in 1309) (Canto XXXII):\n\"Just like a fortress set on a steep slope,<br>\nsecurely seated there, ungirt, a whore,<br>\nwhose eyes were quick to rove, appeared to me;<br>\n<br>\nand I saw at her side, erect, a giant,<br>\nwho seemed to serve as her custodian;<br>\nand they again, again embraced each other.\" \nIt is noon as the events observed in the Earthly Paradise come to a close. Finally, Dante drinks from the River Eunoë, which restores good memories, and prepares him for his ascent to Heaven (described in the \"Paradiso\", the final \"cantica\"). As with the other two parts of the \"Divine Comedy\", the \"Purgatorio\" ends on the word \"stars\" (Canto XXXIII):\n\"From that most holy wave I now returned<br>\nto Beatrice; remade, as new trees are<br>\nrenewed when they bring forth new boughs, I was<br>\npure and prepared to climb unto the stars.\" \n\nThe \"Divine Comedy\" has been a source of inspiration for countless artists for almost seven centuries. While references to the \"Inferno\" are the most common, there are also many references to the \"Purgatorio\". Franz Liszt's \"Symphony to Dante's Divina Commedia\" (1856) has a \"Purgatorio\" movement, as does Robert W. Smith's \"The Divine Comedy\" (2006). Chaucer and others have referenced the \"Purgatorio\" in their writing. Many visual artists have depicted scenes from the \"Purgatorio\", including Gustave Doré, John Flaxman, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, John William Waterhouse, and William Blake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50582788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50582788", "title": "Rahel Jaeggi", "text": "Rahel Jaeggi\n\nRahel Jaeggi (born July 19, 1967 in Bern) is a professor of practical philosophy and social philosophy at the Humboldt University of Berlin. Her research areas are in social philosophy, political philosophy, ethics, philosophical anthropology, social ontology, and critical theory. Since February 2018 she has been the head of the Berlin campus of the newly founded International Center for Humanities and Social Change.\n\nJaeggi is the daughter of Swiss sociologist Urs Jaeggi and Austrian psychoanalyst and author . Prior to working as a research assistant to Axel Honneth at the University of Frankfurt, Jaeggi studied at the Free University of Berlin and at the University of Frankfurt. She wrote her doctoral thesis on the concept of alienation. Research and teaching positions brought her to Yale University in New Haven, the New School for Social Research in New York City, and the University of Frankfurt. She wrote her postdoctoral thesis on the subject of \"Critique of Forms of Life\" at the University of Frankfurt.\nSince 2009 she has been the chair of practical philosophy and social philosophy at the Humboldt University of Berlin. She taught as a Theodor Heuss Professor at The New School for Social Research in New York during the academic year of 2015/16.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338705", "title": "Scientific community", "text": "Scientific community\n\nThe scientific community is a diverse network of interacting scientists. It includes many \"sub-communities\" working on particular scientific fields, and within particular institutions; interdisciplinary and cross-institutional activities are also significant. Objectivity is expected to be achieved by the scientific method. Peer review, through discussion and debate within journals and conferences, assists in this objectivity by maintaining the quality of research methodology and interpretation of results.\n\nThe eighteenth century had some societies made up of men who studied nature, also known as natural philosophers and natural historians, which included even amateurs. As such these societies were more like local clubs and groups with diverse interests than actual scientific communities, which usually had interests on specialized disciplines. Though there were a few older societies of men who studied nature such as the Royal Society of London, the concept of scientific communities emerged in the second half of the 19th century, not before, because it was in this century that the language of modern science emerged, the professionalization of science occurred, specialized institutions were created, and the specialization of scientific disciplines and fields occurred.\n\nFor instance, the term \"scientist\" was first coined by the naturalist-theologian William Whewell in 1834 and the wider acceptance of the term along with the growth of specialized societies allowed for researchers to see themselves as a part of a wider imagined community, similar to the concept of nationhood.\n\nMembership in the community is generally, but not exclusively, a function of education, employment status, research activity and institutional affiliation. Status within the community is highly correlated with publication record, and also depends on the status within the institution and the status of the institution. Researchers can hold roles of different degrees of influence inside the scientific community. Researchers of a stronger influence can act as mentors for early career researchers and steer the direction of research in the community like ageanda setters. \nScientists are usually trained in academia through universities. As such, degrees in the relevant scientific sub-disciplines are often considered prerequisites in the relevant community. In particular, the PhD with its research requirements functions as a marker of being an important integrator into the community, though continued membership is dependent on maintaining connections to other researchers through publication, technical contributions, and conferences. After obtaining a PhD an academic scientist may continue through being on an academic position, receiving a post-doctoral fellowships and onto professorships. Other scientists make contributions to the scientific community in alternate ways such as in industry, education, think tanks, or the government.\n\nMembers of the same community do not need to work together. Communication between the members is established by disseminating research work and hypotheses through articles in peer reviewed journals, or by attending conferences where new research is presented and ideas exchanged and discussed. There are also many informal methods of communication of scientific work and results as well. And many in a coherent community may actually \"not\" communicate all of their work with one another, for various professional reasons.\n\nUnlike in previous centuries when the community of scholars were all members of few learned societies and similar institutions, there are no singular bodies or individuals which can be said today to speak for all science or all scientists. This is partly due to the specialized training most scientists receive in very few fields. As a result, many would lack expertise in all the other fields of the sciences. For instance, due to the increasing complexity of information and specialization of scientists, most of the cutting-edge research today is done by well funded groups of scientists, rather than individuals. However, there are still multiple societies and academies in many countries which help consolidate some opinions and research to help guide public discussions on matters of policy and government-funded research. For example, the United States' National Academy of Science (NAS) and United Kingdom's Royal Society sometimes act as surrogates when the opinions of the scientific community need to be ascertained by policy makers or the national government, but the statements of the National Academy of Science or the Royal Society are not binding on scientists nor do they necessarily reflect the opinions of every scientist in a given community since membership is often exclusive, their commissions are explicitly focused on serving their governments, and they have never \"shown systematic interest in what rank-and file scientists think about scientific matters\". Exclusivity of membership in these types of organizations can be seen in their election processes in which only existing members can officially nominate others for candidacy of membership. It is very unusual for organizations like the National Academy of Science to engage in external research projects since they normally focus on preparing scientific reports for government agencies. An example of how rarely the NAS engages in external and active research can be seen in its struggle to prepare and overcome hurdles, due to its lack of experience in coordinating research grants and major research programs on the environment and health.\n\nNevertheless, general scientific consensus is a concept which is often referred to when dealing with questions that can be subject to scientific methodology. While the consensus opinion of the community is not always easy to ascertain or fix due to paradigm shifting, generally the standards and utility of the scientific method have tended to ensure, to some degree, that scientists agree on some general corpus of facts explicated by scientific theory while rejecting some ideas which run counter to this realization. The concept of scientific consensus is very important to science pedagogy, the evaluation of new ideas, and research funding. Sometimes it is argued that there is a closed shop bias within the scientific community toward new ideas. Protoscience, fringe science, and pseudoscience have been topics that discuss demarcation problems. In response to this some non-consensus claims skeptical organizations, not research institutions, have devoted considerable amounts of time and money contesting ideas which run counter to general agreement on a particular topic.\n\nPhilosophers of science argue over the epistemological limits of such a consensus and some, including Thomas Kuhn, have pointed to the existence of scientific revolutions in the history of science as being an important indication that scientific consensus can, at times, be wrong. Nevertheless, the sheer explanatory power of science in its ability to make accurate and precise predictions and aid in the design and engineering of new technology has ensconced \"science\" and, by proxy, the opinions of the scientific community as a highly respected form of knowledge both in the academy and in popular culture.\n\nThe high regard with which scientific results are held in Western society has caused a number of political controversies over scientific subjects to arise. An alleged conflict thesis proposed in the 19th century between religion and science has been cited by some as representative of a struggle between tradition and substantial change and faith and reason.. A popular example used to support this thesis is when Galileo was tried before the Inquisition concerning the heliocentric model. The persecution began after Pope Urban VIII permitted Galileo to write about the Copernican model. Galileo had used arguments from the Pope and put them in the voice of the simpleton in the work \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\" which caused great offense to him. Even though many historians of science have discredited the conflict thesis it still remains a popular belief among many including some scientists. In more recent times, the creation-evolution controversy has resulted in many religious believers in a supernatural creation to challenge some naturalistic assumptions that have been proposed in some of the branches of scientific fields such as evolutionary biology, geology, and astronomy. Although the dichotomy seems to be of a different outlook from a Continental European perspective, it does exist. The Vienna Circle, for instance, had a paramount (i.e. symbolic) influence on the semiotic regime represented by the Scientific Community in Europe.\n\nIn the decades following World War II, some were convinced that nuclear power would solve the pending energy crisis by providing energy at low cost. This advocacy led to the construction of many nuclear power plants, but was also accompanied by a global political movement opposed to nuclear power due to safety concerns and associations of the technology with nuclear weapons. Mass protests in the United States and Europe during the 1970s and 1980s along with the disasters of Chernobyl and Three Mile Island led to a decline in nuclear power plant construction.\n\nIn the last decades or so, both global warming and stem cells have placed the opinions of the scientific community in the forefront of political debate.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5117137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5117137", "title": "Social Choice and Individual Values", "text": "Social Choice and Individual Values\n\nKenneth Arrow's monograph Social Choice and Individual Values (1951, 2nd ed., 1963) and a theorem within it created modern social choice theory, a rigorous melding of social ethics and voting theory with an economic flavor. Somewhat formally, the \"social choice\" in the title refers to Arrow's representation of how \"social values\" from the \"set of individual orderings\" would be implemented under the \"constitution\". Less formally, each social choice corresponds to the feasible set of laws passed by a \"vote\" (the set of orderings) under the constitution even if not every individual voted in favor of all the laws.\n\nThe work culminated in what Arrow called the \"General Possibility Theorem,\" better known thereafter as Arrow's (impossibility) theorem. The theorem states that, absent restrictions on either individual preferences or neutrality of the constitution to feasible alternatives, there exists no social choice rule that satisfies a set of plausible requirements. The result generalizes the voting paradox, which shows that majority voting may fail to yield a stable outcome.\n\nThe Introduction contrasts voting and markets with dictatorship and social convention (such as those in a religious code). Both exemplify social decisions. Voting and markets facilitate \"social\" choice in a sense, whereas dictatorship and convention limit it. The former amalgamate possibly differing tastes to make a social choice. The concern is with formal aspects of generalizing such choices. In this respect it is comparable to analysis of the voting paradox from use of majority rule as a value.\nArrow asks whether other methods of taste aggregation (whether by voting or markets), using other values, remedy the problem or are satisfactory in other ways. Here logical consistency is one check on acceptability of all the values. To answer the questions, Arrow proposes removing the distinction between voting and markets in favor of a more general category of collective social choice.\n\nThe analysis uses ordinal rankings of individual choice to represent behavioral patterns. Cardinal measures of individual utility and, \"a fortiori\", interpersonal comparisons of utility are avoided on grounds that such measures are unnecessary to represent behavior and depend on mutually incompatible value judgments (p. 9).\n\nFollowing Abram Bergson, whose formulation of a social welfare function launched ordinalist welfare economics, Arrow avoids locating a social good as independent of individual values. Rather, social values inhere in actions from social-decision rules (hypostatized as \"constitutional conditions\") using individual values as input. Then 'social values' means \"nothing more than social choices\" (p. 106).\n\nTopics implicated along the way include game theory, the compensation principle in welfare economics, extended sympathy, Leibniz's principle of the identity of indiscernibles, logrolling, and similarity of social judgments through single-peaked preferences, Kant’s categorical imperative, or the decision process.\n\nThe book defines a few terms and logical symbols used thereafter and their applied empirical interpretation (pp. 11–19, 23). Key among these is the \"vote\" ('set of orderings') of the society (more generally \"collectivity\") composed of individuals (“voters” here) in the following form: \n\nThe ordering of each voter ranks social states, including the \"distribution\" of commodities (possibly based on equity, by whatever metric, or any other consideration), not merely direct consumption by that voter. So, the ordering is an \"individual value,\" not merely, as in earlier analysis, a purely private \"taste.\" Arrow notes that the distinction is not sharp. Resource allocation is specified in the production of each social state in the ordering.\n\nThe comprehensive nature of \"commodities\", the \"set\" of \"social states\", and the \"set\" of \"orderings\" was noted by early reviewers.\n\nThe two properties that define any ordering of the set of \"objects\" in question (all \"social states\" here) are:\n\n \nThe earlier definition of an ordering implies that any given ordering entails one of three responses on the \"ballot\" as between any pair of social states (\"x\", \"y\"): \"better than\", \"as good as\", or \"worse than\" (in preference ranking). (Here \"as good as\" is an \"equally-ranked,\" not a \"don't know,\" relation.) \n\nAn ordering of a voter is denoted by R. That ordering of voter \"i\" is denoted with a subscript as formula_1.\n\nIf voter \"i\" changes orderings, primes distinguish the first and second, say formula_1 compared to formula_1' . The same notation can apply for two different hypothetical orderings of the same voter.\n\nThe interest of the book is in amalgamating sets of orderings. This is accomplished through a 'constitution'. \n\nA social ordering of a constitution is denoted R. (Context or a subscript distinguishes a voter ordering \"R\" from the same symbol for a social ordering.)\n\nFor any two social states \"x\" and \"y\" of a given social ordering \"R\":\n\nx P y is \"social preference\" of \"x\" over \"y\" (\"x\" is selected over \"y\" by the rule).\n\nx I y is \"social indifference\" between \"x\" and \"y\" (both are ranked the same by the rule).\n\nx R y is either \"social preference\" of \"x\" over \"y\" or \"social indifference\" between \"x\" and \"y\" (\"x\" is ranked least as good as \"y\" by the rule).\n\nA social ordering applies to each ordering in the set of orderings (hence the \"social\" part and the associated amalgamation). This is so regardless of (dis)similarity between the social ordering and any or all the orderings in the set. But Arrow places the constitution in the context of ordinalist welfare economics, which attempts to aggregate different tastes in a coherent, plausible way.\nArrow (pp. 15, 26–28) shows how to go from the social ordering \"R\" for a given set of orderings to a particular 'social choice' by specifying:\n\n\nThe social ordering \"R\" then selects the top-ranked social state(s) from the subset as the \"social choice\" set. \nLess informally, the social choice function is the function mapping each environment \"S\" of available social states (at least two) for any \"given\" set of orderings (and corresponding social ordering \"R\") to the social choice set, the set of social states each element of which is top-ranked (by \"R\") for that environment and that set of orderings.\n\nThe social choice function is denoted C(S). Consider an environment that has just two social states, \"x\" and \"y\": \"C(S)\" = \"C([x, y])\". Suppose \"x\" is the only top-ranked social state. Then C([\"x\", \"y\"]) = {\"x\"}, the \"social choice\" set. If \"x\" and \"y\" are instead tied, \"C([x, y])\" = {\"x\", \"y\"}. Formally (p. 15), \"C(S)\" is the set of all \"x\" in \"S\" such that, for all \"y\" in \"S\", \"x R y\" (\"\"x\" is at least as good as \"y\"\").\n\nThe next section invokes the following. Let \"R\" and \"R' \" stand for social orderings of the constitution corresponding to any 2 sets of orderings. If \"R\" and \"R' \" for the same environment \"S\" map to the same social choice(s), the relation of the identical social choices for \"R\" and \"R' \"is represented as: C(\"S\") = C'(\"S\").\n\nA constitution might seem to be a promising alternative to dictatorship and vote-immune social convention or external control. Arrow describes the \"connectedness\" of a social ordering as requiring only that \"some\" social choice be made from any environment of available social states. Since some social state will prevail, this is hard to deny (especially with no place on the ballot for abstention). The \"transitivity\" of a social ordering has an advantage over requiring unanimity (or much less) to change between social states if there is a maladapted \"status quo\" (that is, one subject to \"democratic paralysis\"). Absent deadlock, transitivity crowds out any reference to the \"status quo\" as a privileged default blocking the path to a social choice (p. 120).\n\nArrow proposes the following \"apparently reasonable\" conditions to constrain the social ordering(s) of the constitution (pp. 25, 96-97).\n\n\nEach voter is permitted by the constitution to rank the set of social states in any order, though with only one ordering per voter for a given set of orderings.\n\nArrow describes this condition as an extension of ordinalism with its emphasis on prospectively observable behavior (for the subset in question). He ascribes practical advantage to the condition from \"every known electoral system\" satisfying it (p. 110).\n\nThe conditions, particularly the second and third, may seem minimal, but jointly they are harsh, as may be represented in either of two ways.\n\n\nAn alternate statement of the theorem adds the following condition to the above:\n\n\nArrow (1951, p. 26) describes social welfare here as at least not negatively related to individual preferences. \n\nUnder imposition, for every set of orderings in the domain, the social ranking for at least one \"x\" and \"y\" is only \"x R y\". The vote makes no difference to the outcome. \nThe proof is in two parts (Arrow, 1963, pp. 97–100). The first part considers the hypothetical case of some one voter's ordering that \"prevails\" ('is decisive') as to the social choice for \"some\" pair of social states no matter what that voter's preference for the pair, despite all other voters opposing. It is shown that, for a constitution satisfying Unrestricted Domain, Pareto and Independence, that voter's ordering would prevail for \"every\" pair of social states, no matter what the orderings of others. So, the voter would be a Dictator. Thus, Nondictatorship requires postulating that no one would so prevail for even one pair of social states.\n\nThe second part considers more generally a set of voters that would prevail for some pair of social states, despite all other voters (if any) preferring otherwise. Pareto and Unrestricted Domain for a constitution imply that such a set would at least include the entire set of voters. By Nondictatorship, the set must have at least 2 voters. Among all such sets, postulate a set such that no other set is smaller. Such a set can be constructed with Unrestricted Domain and an adaptation of the voting paradox to imply a still smaller set. This contradicts the postulate and so proves the theorem.\n\nThe book proposes some apparently reasonable conditions for a \"voting\" rule, in particular, a 'constitution', to make consistent, feasible social choices in a welfarist context. But then any constitution that allows dictatorship requires it, and any constitution that requires nondictatorship contradicts one of the other conditions. Hence, the \"paradox of social choice\".\n\nThe set of \"conditions\" across \"different\" possible votes refined welfare economics and differentiated Arrow's constitution from the \"pre-Arrow social welfare function\". In so doing, it also ruled out any one consistent social ordering to which an agent or official might appeal in trying to implement social welfare through the votes of other\"s\" under the constitution. The result generalizes and deepens the voting paradox to any voting rule satisfying the conditions, however complex or comprehensive.\n\nThe 1963 edition includes an additional chapter with a simpler proof of Arrow's Theorem and corrects an earlier point noted by Blau. It also elaborates on advantages of the conditions and cites studies of Riker and Dahl that as an empirical matter intransitivity of the voting mechanism may produce unsatisfactory inaction or majority opposition. These support Arrow's characterization of a constitution across possible votes (that is, collective rationality) as \"an important attribute of a genuinely democratic system capable of full adaptation to varying environments\" (p. 120).\n\nThe theorem might seem to have unravelled a skein of behavior-based social-ethical theory from Adam Smith and Bentham on. But Arrow himself expresses hope at the end of his Nobel prize lecture that, though the philosophical and distributive implications of the paradox of social choice were \"still not clear,\" others would \"take this paradox as a challenge rather than as a discouraging barrier.\"\n\nThe large subsequent literature has included reformulation to extend, weaken, or replace the conditions and derive implications. In this respect Arrow's framework has been an instrument for generalizing voting theory and critically evaluating and broadening economic policy and social choice theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "297157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297157", "title": "Socialist Republic of Romania", "text": "Socialist Republic of Romania\n\nThe Socialist Republic of Romania () refers to Romania under Marxist-Leninist one-party communist rule that existed officially from 1947 to 1989. From 1947 to 1965, the state was known as the Romanian People's Republic (). The country was a Soviet-aligned Eastern Bloc state with a dominant role for the Romanian Communist Party enshrined in .\n\nAs World War II ended, Romania, a former Axis member, was occupied by the Soviet Union, the sole representative of the Allies. On 6 March 1945, after mass demonstrations by communist sympathizers and political pressure from the Soviet representative of the Allied Control Commission, a new pro-Soviet government that included members of the previously outlawed Romanian Workers' Party was installed. Gradually, more members of the Workers' Party and communist-aligned parties gained control of the administration and pre-war political leaders were steadily eliminated from political life. In December 1947, King Michael was coerced to abdicate and the People's Republic of Romania was declared.\n\nAt first, Romania's scarce post-war resources were drained by the \"SovRoms\", new tax-exempt Soviet-Romanian companies that allowed the Soviet Union to control Romania's major sources of income. Another drain was the war reparations paid to the Soviet Union. In the 1950s, however, Romania's communist government began to assert more independence, inducing, for example, the withdrawal of all Soviet troops from Romania by 1958.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Nicolae Ceaușescu became General Secretary of the Communist Party (1965), Chairman of the State Council (1967) and assumed the newly established role of President in 1974. Ceaușescu's denunciation of the 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and a brief relaxation in internal repression helped give him a positive image both at home and in the West. However, rapid economic growth fueled in part by foreign credits gradually gave way to an austerity and political repression that led to the fall of his totalitarian government in December 1989.\n\nA large number of people were executed or died in custody during communist Romania's existence, most during the Stalinist era of the 1950s. While judicial executions between 1945 and 1964 numbered 137, deaths in custody are estimated in the tens or hundreds of thousands. Many more were imprisoned for political, economical or other reasons and suffered abuse, torture and/or death.\n\nGeographically, Romania bordered the Black Sea to the east; the Soviet Union (via the Ukrainian and Moldavian SSRs) to the north and east; Hungary and Yugoslavia to the west and Bulgaria to the south.\n\nWhen King Michael, supported by the main political parties, overthrew Ion Antonescu in August 1944, breaking Romania away from the Axis and bringing it over to the Allied side, Michael could do nothing to erase the memory of his country's recent active participation in the German invasion of the Soviet Union. Romanian forces fought under Soviet command, driving through Northern Transylvania into Hungary proper, and on into Czechoslovakia and Austria. However, the Soviets treated Romania as conquered territory, and Soviet troops remained in the country as occupying forces under the pretext that Romanian authorities could not guarantee the security and stability of Northern Transylvania.\n\nThe Yalta Conference had granted the Soviet Union a predominant interest in Romania, the Paris Peace Treaties failed to acknowledge Romania as a co-belligerent, and the Red Army was sitting on Romanian soil. The Communists, as all political parties, played only a minor role in the first Michael's wartime governments, headed by General Constantin Sănătescu, though their presence increased in the one led by Nicolae Rădescu. This changed in March 1945, when Dr. Petru Groza of the Ploughmen's Front, a party closely associated with the Communists, became prime minister. His government was broad-based on paper, including members of most major prewar parties except the Iron Guard. However, the Communists held the key ministries, and most of the ministers nominally representing non-Communist parties were, like Groza himself, fellow travelers.\n\nThe King was not happy with the direction of this government, but when he attempted to force Groza's resignation by refusing to sign any legislation (a move known as \"the royal strike\"), Groza simply chose to enact laws without bothering to obtain Michael's signature. On 8 November 1945, King Michael's name day, a pro-monarchy demonstration in front of the Royal Palace in Bucharest escalated into street fights between opposition supporters and soldiers, police and pro-government workers, resulting in dozens of killed and wounded; Soviet officers restrained Romanian soldiers and police from firing on civilians, and Soviet troops restored order.\n\nDespite the King's disapproval, the first Groza government brought land reform and women's suffrage. However, it also brought the beginnings of Soviet domination of Romania. In the elections of 19 November 1946, the Communist-led Bloc of Democratic Parties (BPD) claimed 84% of the votes. These elections were characterized by widespread irregularities, including intimidation, electoral fraud, and assassinations Archives confirm suspicions at the time that the election results were, in fact, falsified.\n\nAfter forming a government, the Communists moved to eliminate the role of the centrist parties; notably, the National Peasants' Party was accused of espionage after it became clear in 1947 that their leaders were meeting secretly with United States officials. A show trial of their leadership was then arranged, and they were put in jail. Other parties were forced to \"merge\" with the Communists. In 1946 and 1947, several high-ranking members in the pro-Axis government were executed as war criminals, primarily for their involvement in the Holocaust and for attacking the Soviet Union. Antonescu himself was executed 1 June 1946.\n\nBy 1947, Romania remained the only monarchy in the Eastern Bloc. On 30 December that year, Michael was at his palace in Sinaia when Groza and Gheorghiu-Dej summoned him back to Bucharest. They presented him with a pretyped instrument of abdication and demanded that he sign it. With pro-Communist troops surrounding his palace and his telephone lines cut, Michael was forced to sign the document. Hours later, Parliament abolished the monarchy and proclaimed Romania a People's Republic. In February 1948, the Communists forced what remained of the Social Democrats to merge with them to form the Romanian Workers' Party. However, the few remaining independent-minded Socialists were soon pushed out, and the merged party was the PCR with a new name. Meanwhile, most non-Communist politicians had either been imprisoned or fled into exile.\n\nThe Communist regime was formalized with the constitution of 13 April 1948. The new constitution was a near-copy of the 1936 Soviet Constitution. It forbade and punished any association which had a \"fascist or anti-democratic nature\"—- which was broadly interpreted to ban any party not willing to do the Communists' bidding. It also granted freedom of the press, speech and assembly for the working class. In the face of wide-scale killings, imprisonments and harassment of local peasants during forced collectivization, private-property nationalization and political oppression, the rights and freedoms spelled out in the Constitution of 1948 and its two successors (in 1952 and 1965) were never respected by governments or the new judges appointed during the 42 years of undisguised Communist rule.\n\nAlthough these successive constitutions provided a simulacrum of religious freedom, the regime in fact had a policy of promoting atheism, coupled with religious persecution. The role of religious bodies was strictly limited to their houses of worship, and large public demonstrations were strictly forbidden. In 1948, in order to minimize the role of the clergy in society, the government adopted a decree nationalizing church property, including schools. The regime found wiser to use religion and make it subservient to the regime rather than to eradicate it. The Communist government also disbanded the Romanian Greek-Catholic Uniate Church, declaring its merger with the Romanian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe early years of Communist rule in Romania were marked by repeated changes of course and by numerous arrests and imprisonments as factions contended for dominance. The country's resources were also drained by the Soviet's SovRom agreements, which facilitated shipping of Romanian goods to the Soviet Union at nominal prices.\n\nOn 11 June 1948, all banks and large businesses were nationalized.\n\nIn the Communist leadership, there appear to have been three important factions, all of them Stalinist, differentiated more by their respective personal histories than by any deep political or philosophical differences:\n\n\nPauker and her allies were labeled as the \"Muskovite [foreign] faction\" and accused of deviating to the left and right. For instance, they were initially allied on not liquidating the rural bourgeoise, but later shifted their position.\n\nUltimately, with Joseph Stalin's backing, Gheorghiu-Dej and the \"Prison Communists\" won out. Pauker was purged from the party (along with 192,000 other party members); Pătrășcanu was executed after a show trial.\n\nGheorghiu-Dej, a committed Stalinist, was unhappy with the reforms in Nikita Khrushchev's Soviet Union after Stalin's death in 1953. He also balked at Comecon's goal of turning Romania into the \"breadbasket\" of the East Bloc, pursuing an economic plan based on heavy industry and energy production. He closed Romania's largest labor camps, abandoned the Danube–Black Sea Canal project, halted rationing and hiked workers' wages. These factors combined to put Romania under Gheorghiu-Dej on a relatively independent and nationalist route.\n\nGheorghiu-Dej identified with Stalinism, and the more liberal Soviet government threatened to undermine his authority. In an effort to reinforce his position, Gheorghiu-Dej pledged cooperation with any state, regardless of political-economic system, as long as it recognized international equality and did not interfere in other nations' domestic affairs. This policy led to a tightening of Romania's bonds with China, which also advocated national self-determination and opposed Soviet hegemonism.\n\nGheorghiu-Dej resigned as the party's general secretary in 1954 but retained the premiership; a four-member collective secretariat, including Nicolae Ceaușescu, controlled the party for a year before Gheorghiu-Dej again took up the reins. Despite its new policy of international cooperation, Romania joined the Warsaw Treaty Organization (Warsaw Pact) in 1955, which entailed subordinating and integrating a portion of its military into the Soviet military machine. Romania later refused to allow Warsaw Pact maneuvers on its soil and limited its participation in military maneuvers elsewhere within the alliance.\n\nIn 1956, the Soviet premier, Nikita Khrushchev, denounced Stalin in a secret speech before the Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). Gheorghiu-Dej and the leadership of the Romanian Workers' Party (\"Partidul Muncitoresc Român, PMR\") were fully braced to weather de-Stalinization. Gheorghiu-Dej made Pauker, Luca and Georgescu scapegoats for the Romanian communist past excesses and claimed that the Romanian party had purged its Stalinist elements even before Stalin died in 1953. In all likelihood, Gheorghiu-Dej himself ordered the violence and coercion in the collectivization movements, since he did not rebuke those who perpetuated abuses. In fact, Pauker reprimanded any cadre who forced peasants, and once she was purged, the violence reappeared.\n\nIn October 1956, Poland's communist leaders refused to succumb to Soviet military threats to intervene in domestic political affairs and install a more obedient politburo. A few weeks later, the Communist Party in Hungary virtually disintegrated during a popular revolution. Poland's defiance and Hungary's popular uprising inspired Romanian students to organize meetings in București, Cluj and Timișoara calling for liberty, better living conditions, and an end to Soviet domination. Under the pretext that the Hungarian uprising might incite his nation's own revolt, Gheorghiu-Dej took radical measures which meant persecutions and jailing of various \"suspects\", especially people of Hungarian origin. He also advocated swift Soviet intervention, and the Soviet Union reinforced its military presence in Romania, particularly along the Hungarian border. Although Romania's unrest proved fragmentary and controllable, Hungary's was not, so in November Moscow mounted a bloody invasion of Hungary.\n\nAfter the Revolution of 1956, Gheorghiu-Dej worked closely with Hungary's new leader, János Kádár, who was installed by the Soviet Union. Romania took Hungary's former premier (leader of the 1956 revolution) Imre Nagy into custody. He was jailed at Snagov, north of Bucharest. After a series of interrogations by Soviets and Romanian authorities, Nagy was returned to Budapest for trial and execution.\nIn Transylvania, the Romanian authorities merged Hungarian and Romanian universities at Cluj, putting an end to the Hungarian Bólyai University, and also worked on gradually eliminating Hungarian education in middle schools by transforming them into Romanian ones.\n\nGheorghiu-Dej spread fears about Hungary wanting to take over Transylvania. He took a two-pronged approach to the problem, arresting the leaders of the Hungarian People's Alliance, but, under Soviet pressure, establishing a nominally autonomous Hungarian region in the Székely Land.\n\nRomania's government also took measures to reduce public discontent by reducing investments in heavy industry, boosting output of consumer goods, decentralizing economic management, hiking wages and incentives, and instituting elements of worker management. The authorities eliminated compulsory deliveries for private farmers but reaccelerated the collectivization program in the mid-1950s, albeit less brutally than earlier. The government declared collectivization complete in 1962, when collective and state farms controlled 77% of the arable land.\n\nDespite Gheorghiu-Dej's claim that he had purged the Romanian party of Stalinists, he remained susceptible to attack for his obvious complicity in the party's activities from 1944 to 1953. At a plenary PMR meeting in March 1956, Miron Constantinescu and Iosif Chișinevschi, both Politburo members and deputy premiers, criticized Gheorghiu-Dej. Constantinescu, who advocated a Khrushchev-style liberalization, posed a particular threat to Gheorghiu-Dej because he enjoyed good connections with the Moscow leadership. The PMR purged Constantinescu and Chișinevschi in 1957, denouncing both as Stalinists and charging them with complicity with Pauker. Afterwards, Gheorghiu-Dej faced no serious challenge to his leadership. Ceaușescu replaced Constantinescu as head of PMR cadres.\n\nThe cadres — anyone who was not a rank-and-file member of the Communist Party — were deemed the Party's vanguard, as they were entrusted with the power to construct a new social order and the forms of power that would sustain it. They still underwent extensive surveillance, which created an environment of competition and rivalry.\n\nOnce the Communist government became more entrenched, the number of arrests increased. All strata of society were involved, but particularly targeted were the prewar elites, such as intellectuals, clerics, teachers, former politicians (even if they had left-leaning views) and anybody who could potentially form the nucleus of anti-Communist resistance. \n\nThe existing prisons were filled with political prisoners, and a new system of forced labor camps and prisons was created, modeled after the Soviet Gulag. A decision to put into practice the century-old project for a Danube-Black Sea Canal served as a pretext for the erection of several labor camps, where numerous people died. Some of the most notorious prisons included Sighet, Gherla, Pitești and Aiud, and forced labor camps were set up at lead mines and in the Danube Delta.\n\nOne of the most notorious and infamous brainwashing experiments in Eastern Europe's history took place in Romania, in the political prison of Piteşti, a small town, about 120 km northwest of Bucharest. This prison is infamous in Romania still for the so-called 'Piteşti experiment' or Piteşti phenomenon, conducted there between 1949 and 1952. The prison in Pitești and the Pitesti experiment aimed to 'reeducate' the (real or imagined) opponents of the regime. It involved psychological and physical torture of prisoners, and the submission of them to humiliating, degrading and dehumanizing acts. Tens of people died in this 'experiment', but its aim was not to kill the people, but to 'reeducate' them. Some of those who were thus 'reeducated' later became torturers themselves. Of those who survived Piteşti, many either took their own lives or ended up in mental institutions.\n\nThe Communist government also decided on the deportation of peasants from the Banat (south-west Transylvania, at the border with Yugoslavia), started on 18 June 1951. About 45,000 people were forcibly \"resettled\" in lesser populated regions on the eastern plains (Bărăgan). The government decision was directed towards creating a \"cordon sanitaire\" against Tito's Yugoslavia, but was also used as an intimidation tactic to force the remaining peasants to join collective farms. Most deportees lived in the Bărăgan for 5 years (until 1956), but some remained there permanently.\n\nAnti-communist resistance also had an organized form, and many people opposing the government took up arms and formed partisan groups, comprising 10–40 people. There were attacks on police posts and sabotage. Some of the famous partisans were Elisabeta Rizea from Nucșoara and Gheorghe Arsenescu. Despite a large number of secret police (\"Securitate\") and army troops massed against them, armed resistance in the mountains continued until the early 1960s, and one of the best known partisan leaders was not captured until 1974.\n\nAnother form of anti-communist resistance, non-violent this time, was the student movement of 1956. In reaction to the anti-communist revolt in Hungary, echoes were felt all over the Eastern bloc. Protests took place in some university centers resulting in numerous arrests and expulsions. The most organised student movement was in Timișoara, where 3000 were arrested. In Bucharest and Cluj, organised groups were set up which tried to make common cause with the anti-communist movement in Hungary and coordinate activity. The authorities' reaction was immediate – students were arrested or suspended from their courses, some teachers were dismissed, and new associations were set up to supervise student activities.\n\nTens of thousands of people were killed as part of repression and agricultural collectivization in Communist Romania primarily under Gheorghiu-Dej.\n\nGheorghiu-Dej died in 1965 in unclear circumstanceshis death apparently occurred when he was in Moscow for medical treatmentand, after a power struggle, was succeeded by the previously obscure Nicolae Ceaușescu. Where Gheorghiu-Dej had hewed to a Stalinist line while the Soviet Union was in a reformist period, Ceaușescu initially appeared to be a reformist.\n\nDuring his last two years, Gheorghiu-Dej had exploited the Soviet–Chinese dispute and begun to oppose the hegemony of the Soviet Union. Ceaușescu, supported by colleagues of Gheorghiu-Dej such as Maurer, continued this popular line. Relations with Western countries and many other states began to be strengthened in what seemed to be the national interest of Romania. The forced Soviet (mostly Russian) cultural influence in the country which characterized the 1950s was stopped and Western media was allowed to circulate in Romania instead.\n\nOn 21 August 1965, following the example of Czechoslovakia, the name of the country was changed to \"Socialist Republic of Romania\" (\"Republica Socialistă România, RSR\") and PMR's old name was restored (\"Partidul Comunist Român, PCR\"; \"Romanian Communist Party\").\n\nIn his early years in power, Ceaușescu was genuinely popular, both at home and abroad. Agricultural goods were abundant, consumer goods began to reappear, there was a cultural thaw, and, what was important abroad, he spoke out against the 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. While his reputation at home soon paled, he continued to have uncommonly good relations with Western governments and with international capitalist institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and World Bank because of his independent political line. Romania under Ceaușescu maintained and sometimes improved diplomatic and other relations with, among others, West Germany, Israel, China, Albania, and Pinochet's Chile, all for various reasons not on good terms with Moscow.\n\nConcerned about the country's low birthrates, Nicolae Ceaușescu enacted an aggressive natalist policy, which included outlawing abortion and contraception, routine pregnancy tests for women, taxes on childlessness, and legal discrimination against childless people. This period has later been depicted in movies and documentaries (such as \"4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days\", \"Children of the Decree\"). To counter the sharp decline of the population, the Communist Party decided that the Romanian population should be increased from 23 to 30 million inhabitants. In October 1966, Decree 770 was authorized by Ceaușescu.\n\nThese pro-natalist measures had some degree of success, as a baby boom resulted in the late 1960s, with the generations born in 1967 and 1968 being the largest in the country's history. The natalist policies temporarily increased birth rates for a few years, but this was followed by a later decline due to an increased use of illegal abortion. Ceaușescu's policy resulted in the deaths of over 9,000 women due to illegal abortions, large numbers of children put into Romanian orphanages by parents who couldn't cope with raising them, street children in the 1990s (when many orphanages were closed and the children ended up on the streets), and overcrowding in homes and schools. The irony of Ceaușescu's natalist policy was that a generation that may not otherwise have been born would eventually lead the Romanian Revolution which would overthrow and have him executed.\n\nOther restrictions of human rights included invasion of privacy by the secret police (the \"Securitate\"), censorship and relocation, but not on the same scale as in the 1950s.\n\nDuring the Ceaușescu era, there was a secret ongoing \"trade\" between Romania on one side and Israel and West Germany on the other side, under which Israel and West Germany paid money to Romania to allow Romanian citizens with certified Jewish or German ancestry to emigrate to Israel and West Germany, respectively.\n\nCeaușescu's Romania continued to pursue Gheorghiu-Dej's policy of industrialization. Romania made progress with the economy. From 1951 to 1974, Romania's gross industrial output increased at an average annual rate of 13 percent. Several branches of heavy industry were founded, including the machine-tool, tractor, and automotive industries; large-tonnage shipbuilding; the manufacture of electric diesel locomotives; and the electronics and petrochemical industries.\n\nIn the realm of foreign trade, Socialist Romania exported machinery, consumer goods, chemicals, agricultural products, and petroleum products.\n\nPrior to the mid-1970s, Bucharest, as most other cities, was developed by expanding the city, especially towards the south, east and west. High density residential neighbourhoods were built on the outskirts of the city, some (such as Drumul Taberei, Berceni, Titan or Giurgiului) of architectural and urban planning value. Conservation plans were made, especially during the 1960s and early 1970s, but all were halted after Ceaușescu embarked on what is known as \"The Small Cultural Revolution\" (\"Mica revoluție culturală\"), after visiting North Korea and the People's Republic of China and then delivering a speech known as the July Theses. In the late 1970s, the construction of the Bucharest Metro system was started. After two years, 10 km of network were already complete and after another 2 years, 9 km of tunnels were ready for use. By 17 August 1989, 49.01 km of the subway system and 34 stations were already in use.\n\nThe earthquake of 1977 shocked Bucharest; many buildings collapsed, and many others were weakened. This was the backdrop that led to a policy of large-scale demolition which affected monuments of historical significance or architectural masterpieces such as the monumental Vǎcǎrești Monastery (1722), the \"Sfânta Vineri\" (1645) and \"Enei\" (1611) Churches, the Cotroceni (1679) and Pantelimon (1750) Monasteries, and the art deco \"Republic's Stadium\" (ANEF Stadium, 1926). Even the Palace of Justice – built by Romania's foremost architect, Ion Mincu – was scheduled for demolition in early 1990, according to the systematisation papers. Yet another tactic was abandoning and neglecting buildings and bringing them into such a state that they would require being torn down.\n\nThus, the policy towards the city after the earthquake was not one of reconstruction, but one of demolition and building anew. An analysis by the Union of Architects, commissioned in 1990, claims that over 2000 buildings were torn down, with over 77 of very high architectural importance, most of them in good condition. Even Gara de Nord (the city's main railway station), listed on the Romanian Architectural Heritage List, was scheduled to be torn down and replaced in early 1992.\n\nDespite all of this, and despite the much-questioned treatment of HIV-infected orphans, the country continued to have a notably good system of schools. Also, not every industrialization project was a failure: Ceaușescu left Romania with a reasonably effective system of power generation and transmission, gave Bucharest a functioning subway, and left many cities with an increase in habitable apartment buildings.\n\nRomania continued to make progress. High rates of growth in production created conditions for raising living standards of the people. From 1950 to the mid-1980s, average net wages increased more than eightfold. The consumption fund increased 22-fold, and a broad program of building cultural facilities and housing was carried out. Over 80 percent of the country's population had moved to new apartments during this period.\n\nDespite all this, living standards in the country remained some of Europe's lowest and as early as 1981, there were clear signs of public discontent, such as riots and an angry mob throwing rocks at Ceaușescu's helicopter while it made a flight to Transylvania that October. Ceaușescu desired to repay Western loans, and thus enacted a harsh austerity policy, including rationing of food, gas, heating and electricity. People in cities had to turn to natural gas containers (\"butelii\") or charcoal stoves, even though they were connected to the gas mains.\nWith full-scale food rationing in place, the Communist Party published official guidelines on how Romanians could eat nutritiously while reducing their calorie intake by 25%. There was a shortage of available goods for the average Romanian. By 1984, despite a high crop yield and increased food production, wide-scale food rationing was introduced. The government promoted it as \"rational eating\" and \"a means to reduce obesity\". Most of what was available were export rejects, as most of the quality goods were exported, even underpriced, in order to obtain hard currency, either to pay the debt, or to push forward in the ever-growing pursuit of heavy industrialization.\n\nMeasures in the mechanization and chemicalization of farming helped to increase the output of agricultural products. In 1950, more than 300 kg of cereals was gathered per head of the population; by 1982 this amount had increased to 1 ton per person. Meat production increased from 29.5 to 100 kg.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the United Nations Human Development report classified Romania as having had high human development. The life expectancy was 71 years, the literacy rate was 96%, and the Real GDP per capita was $3000.\n\nBy 1985, despite Romania's huge refining capacity, petroleum products were strictly rationed with supplies drastically cut, a Sunday curfew was instated, and many buses used methane propulsion (they were mockingly named \"bombs\"); taxis were converted to burning methanol. Electricity was rationed to divert supplies to heavy industry, with a maximum monthly allowed consumption of 20 kWh per family (everything over this limit was heavily taxed). Only one in five streetlights was kept on, and television was reduced to a single channel broadcasting just 2 hours each day. All these policies combined led Romanians to have the lowest standard of living in Europe, with the possible exception of Albania.\n\nSystematization () refers to the program of urban planning carried out under Ceaușescu's regime. After a visit to North Korea in 1971, Ceaușescu was impressed by the \"Juche\" ideology of that country, and began a massive campaign shortly afterwards.\n\nBeginning in 1974, systematization consisted largely of the demolition and reconstruction of existing villages, towns, and cities, in whole or in part, with the stated goal of turning Romania into a \"multilaterally developed socialist society\". The policy largely consisted in the mass construction of high-density blocks of flats (\"blocuri\").\n\nDuring the 1980s, Ceaușescu became obsessed with building himself a palace of unprecedented proportions, along with an equally grandiose neighborhood, Centrul Civic, to accompany it. The mass demolitions that occurred in the 1980s under which an overall area of eight square kilometres of the historic center of Bucharest were leveled, including monasteries, churches, synagogues, a hospital, and a noted Art Deco sports stadium, in order to make way for the grandiose Centrul Civic (Civic center) and the House of the Republic, now officially renamed the Palace of Parliament, were the most extreme manifestation of the systematization policy.\n\nControl over society became stricter and stricter, with an East German-style phone bugging system installed, and with Securitate recruiting more agents, extending censorship and keeping tabs and records on a large segment of the population. By 1989, according to CNSAS (the Council for Studies of the Archives of the Former Securitate), one in three Romanians was an informant for the Securitate. Due to this situation, income from tourism dropped substantially, the number of foreign tourists visiting Romania dropping by 75%, with the three main tour operators that organized trips in Romania leaving the country by 1987. Ceausescu also started becoming the subject of a vast personality cult, his portrait on every street and hanging in every public building.\n\nBy 1988, with perestroika and glasnost policies in effect in the Soviet Union and China undergoing economic reforms, Romania's Stalinist sociopolitical system began to look increasingly out-of-place, but all attempts were made to keep the populace isolated from events going on outside the country. Also, while the West had been willing in the past to overlook Ceausescu's human rights record in lieu of his independent, anti-Soviet stance, this was becoming less relevant with the Cold War winding down. As such, Romania started coming under fire from the US and its allies, but such complaints were merely brushed off as \"unwelcome interference in our nation's internal affairs\".\n\nThere was also a revival of the effort to build:\n\nAnother legacy of this era was pollution: Ceaușescu's government scored badly on this count even by the standards of the Eastern European communist states. Examples include Copșa Mică with its infamous Carbon Powder factory (in the 1980s, the whole city could be seen from satellite as covered by a thick black cloud), Hunedoara, or the plan, launched in 1989, to convert the unique Danube Delta – a UNESCO World Heritage site – to plain agricultural fields.\n\nDecember 1989 was the last act of a finale that had started in 1987, in Brașov. The anti-communist riot in Brașov on 15 November 1987 was the main political event that announced the imminent fall of communism in Romania.\n\nThe revolt started at the enterprise of Trucks Brașov, as a strike that began on the night of 14 November, on the night-shift, and continued the next morning with a march downtown, in front of the Council of the Romanian Communist Party.\n\nThe population had heard about this event through Radio Free Europe. As Emil Hurezeanu tells it: \"I remember that Neculai Constantin Munteanu, the moderator of the show, started the broadcast: 'Brașov! So Brașov! Now it started!' This was the tone of the whole broadcast. We had interviews, information, interpretations of some political interpretations, older press articles announcing open street protests against Ceaușescu.\"\n\nThe reprisals against strikers were rapid. The workers were arrested and imprisoned and their families terrorized, but this act of courage on the part of the workers of Brașov set the stage for future mass revolts.\n\nEmil Hurezeanu continues: \"... All these have been turned into an offensive. The reaction of the regime was expected.. Very soon it was seen that the regime wants to hide it, to cancel it, practically not to respond to claims, not to take measures, to change anything, not to turn this protest into a public debate or even inside the party, in the Political Executive Committee. And then, the recipe of street confrontations with the regime became the only...possible. It became the leitmotif of all the media analysis. [...] It was the beginning of an action against the system that comprises more items. It was a labor protest in a citadel of Ceaușescu, it was an antidictatorial message, it was a clear political context: the pressures of Moscow, Ceaușescu's refusal to accept the demands of Gorbachev, the breaking with the West, who changed the views towards the regime – all these have made us to believe that the beginning of the end was coming\".\n\nIn March 1989, several leading activists of the PCR protested in a letter that criticized the economic policies of Nicolae Ceaușescu, but shortly thereafter Ceaușescu achieved a significant political victory: Romania paid off its external debt of about US$11 billion several months earlier than even the Romanian dictator had expected. Ceaușescu was formally reelected secretary general of the Romanian Communist Party—-the only political party of the Romanian Socialist Republic—-on 14 November at the party's XIVth Congress.\n\nOn 11 November 1989, before the party congress, on Bucharest's Brezoianu Street and Kogalniceanu Boulevard, students from Cluj-Napoca and Bucharest demonstrated with placards that read \"We want Reforms against Ceaușescu government.\" The students—Paraschivescu Mihnea, Vulpe Gratian, the economist Dan Caprariu from Cluj and others—were arrested and investigated by the Securitate at the , accused of propaganda against the socialist society. They were released on 22 December 1989 at 14.00. There were other letters and other attempts to draw attention to the economic, cultural, and spiritual oppression of Romanians, but they served only to intensify the activity of the communist police and Securitate.\n\nOn 16 December, a protest broke out in Timișoara in response to an attempt by the government to evict the dissident pastor László Tőkés from his church flat. Tőkés had recently made critical comments against the regime to the Hungarian media, and the government alleged that he was inciting ethnic hatred. His parishioners gathered around his home to protect him from harassment and eviction. Many passers-by, including Romanian students, spontaneously joined the protest. Subsequently, police and \"Securitate\" forces showed up at the scene. By 7:30 pm, the protest had spread, and the original cause became largely irrelevant. Some of the protesters attempted to burn down the building that housed the District Committee of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR). The \"Securitate\" responded with tear gas and water jets, while the police attacked rioters and arrested many of them. Around 9:00 pm, the rioters withdrew. They regrouped eventually around the Romanian Orthodox Cathedral and started a protest march around the city, but again they were confronted by the security forces.\n\nRiots and protests resumed the following day, 17 December. The rioters broke into the District Committee building. The army failed to establish order and chaos ensued, with gunfire, fighting, burning of cars, and casualties.\n\nUnlike the Soviet Union at the same time, Romania had not developed a large, privileged elite. Ceausescu's family maintained all control of politics and Communist Party officials were paid poorly and often rotated from job to job, thus preventing any political rivals from developing. This prevented the rise of the Gorbachev-era reformist communism found in Hungary or the Soviet Union. Similarly, unlike in Poland, Ceaușescu reacted to strikes entirely through a strategy of further oppression. Romania was nearly the last of the Eastern European communist governments to fall; its fall was also the most violent up to that time. The events of December 1989 are much in dispute.\n\nProtests and riots broke out in Timișoara on 17 December and soldiers opened fire on the protesters, killing about 100 people. After cutting short a two-day trip to Iran, Ceaușescu gave a televised speech on 20 December in which he condemned the events of Timișoara, saying he considered them an act of foreign intervention in the internal affairs of Romania and an aggression through foreign secret services on Romania's sovereignty, and declared National Curfew, convoking a mass meeting in his support in Bucharest for the next day. The uprising of Timișoara became known across the country, and on the morning of 21 December, protests spread to Sibiu, Bucharest and elsewhere.\n\nOn 21 December, the meeting at the Central Committee Building (CC) in Bucharest turned into chaos. The crowd, in a reaction that would have been unthinkable for most of the previous quarter-century, openly booed and jeered Ceaușescu as he spoke. He was forced to hide himself in the CC Building after losing control of his own \"supporters\". The night of 21 December brought fighting between protesters and the Securitate, police and part of the army forces; more than 1100 protesters lost their lives during the fights over the next few days. On the morning of 22 December, it was announced that the army general Vasile Milea was dead by suicide. Believing that Milea had actually been murdered, the rank-and-file soldiers went over almost \"en masse\" to the budding rebellion. A second attempt at a speech the next day quickly failed. Soon, people were besieging the Central Committee Building, coming within a few meters of Ceaușescu himself; the Securitate did nothing to help him. Ceaușescu soon fled by helicopter from the rooftop of the CC Building, only to find himself abandoned in Târgoviște, where he and his wife Elena were finally tried by a drumhead court-martial, convicted after an hour and a half, and executed by firing squad moments after the verdict and sentence were announced on 25 December. The PCR dissolved soon afterward and has never been revived. Uniquely among former Eastern bloc countries, no party claiming to be its successor has ever won a seat in the revamped Parliament since the end of communism.\n\nFor several months after the events of December 1989, it was widely argued that Ion Iliescu and the National Salvation Front (FSN) had merely taken advantage of the chaos to stage a coup. While, ultimately, a great deal did change in Romania, it is still a subject of contention among Romanians and other observers as to whether this was their intent from the outset, or merely pragmatic playing of the cards they were dealt. By December 1989 Ceaușescu's harsh and counterproductive economic and political policies had cost him the support of many government officials and even the most loyal Communist Party cadres, most of whom joined forces with the popular revolution or simply refused to support him. This loss of support from government officials ultimately set the stage for Ceaușescu's demise. The Romanian army also was a factor in the regime's fall as it suffered from severe budget cuts while vast sums were spent on the Securitate, leaving them severely discontented and unwilling to save Ceausescu.\n\nRSR's political framework was a socialist republic run by a single party, the Romanian Communist Party. All of its legislative meetings took place in Bucharest.\n\nRomania's foreign policy was aligned with all nations that were aligned with the Soviet Union. Under Ceausescu, it enjoyed strategic relations with the Western Bloc and the Non-Aligned Movement and it was the only Eastern Bloc country not to boycott the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.\n\nFollowing the Sino-Soviet split, Romania also maintained relations with China and North Korea as well as the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge-ruled Democratic Kampuchea.\n\nHowever, Romania joined the United Nations on 14 December 1955 (see United Nations Security Council Resolution 109) as well as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in 1972. In July 1980, Romania signed a comprehensive trade agreement with the European Economic Community; which in turn became the European Union in 1993 when Romania joined in 2007.\n\nDespite the harsh austerity measures of the 1980s in Romania being still in living memory, many Romanians respond in polls that they'd prefer a restoration of the Communist regime (as much as 53% in a 2012 poll), looking back nostalgically at an era of perceived stability and safety as opposed to the recent economic and political instability.\n\nAfter the fall of the communist regime, Romania began shifting its political and economic policies from support (albeit tepid) for Moscow to aligning itself with Brussels and Washington by joining NATO in 2004 and the European Union in 2007.\n\nThe clientelistic networks that kept incompetent cadres in power were resilient after the Romanian Communist Party collapsed in 1989, allowing them to persist and generate post-communist corruption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15020814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15020814", "title": "Subong", "text": "Subong\n\nSu Bong (; January 7, 1943—July 17, 1994) was a Soen Sa Nim in the Kwan Um School of Zen, the designated heir of Seung Sahn's lineage. Of both Korean and Chinese heritage, he was born in Kona, Hawaii. Su Bong began his practice with Seung Sahn in 1974, helping to establish many Zen groups and temples for the lineage in the years that followed. In 1981 he received inka from Seung Sahn, making him a Ji Do Poep Sa Nim (JDPSN) in the lineage and, in 1983, he was ordained a sunim and given the Buddhist name Mu Deung. He received Dharma transmission on October 11, 1992. On July 17, 1994, Su Bong died of unknown causes at a retreat while conducting kong-an interviews in Hong Kong. Today the Kwan Um School of Zen has a practice center in his name located in Hong Kong and named Su Bong Zen Monastery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30843", "title": "Theism", "text": "Theism\n\nTheism is broadly defined as the belief in the existence of the Supreme Being or deities. In common parlance, or when contrasted with \"deism\", the term often describes the classical conception of God that is found in monotheism (also referred to as classical theism) - or gods found in polytheistic religions—a belief in God or in gods without the rejection of revelation as is characteristic of deism.\n\nAtheism is commonly understood as rejection of theism in the broadest sense of theism, i.e. the rejection of belief in God or gods. The claim that the existence of any deity is unknown or unknowable is agnosticism.\n\nThe term \"theism\" derives from the Greek \"theos\" or \"theoi\" meaning \"god\". The term \"theism\" was first used by Ralph Cudworth (1617–1688). In Cudworth's definition, they are \"strictly and properly called Theists, who affirm, that a perfectly conscious understanding being, or mind, existing of itself from eternity, was the cause of all other things\".\n\nMonotheism (from Greek ) is the belief in theology that only one deity exists.\nSome modern day monotheistic religions include Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Baha'i Faith, Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, Eckankar and some forms of Hinduism. There have been many proofs of Monotheism postulated by a multitude of philosophers and academics throughout history. However, many of these proofs are either unknown or have been misinterpreted.\n\nPolytheism is the belief that there is more than one god.\nIn practice, polytheism is not just the belief that there are multiple gods; it usually includes belief in the existence of a specific pantheon of distinct deities.\n\nWithin polytheism there are \"hard\" and \"soft\" varieties:\n\nPolytheism is also divided according to how the individual deities are regarded:\n\n\nSome find the distinction between these two beliefs ambiguous and unhelpful, while others see it as a significant point of division. Pantheism may be understood a type of Nontheism, where the physical universe takes on some of the roles of a theistic God, and other roles of God viewed as unnecessary.\n\nDeism typically rejects supernatural events (such as prophecies, miracles, and divine revelations) prominent in organized religion. Instead, Deism holds that religious beliefs must be founded on human reason and observed features of the natural world, and that these sources reveal the existence of a supreme being as creator.\n\nAutotheism is the viewpoint that, whether divinity is also external or not, it is inherently within 'oneself' and that one has the ability to achieve godhood. This can be in a selfless way, a way following the implications of statements attributed to ethical, philosophical, and religious leaders (such as Mahavira).\n\nAutotheism can also refer to the belief that one's self is a deity, within the context of subjectivism. Hindus use the term, \"aham Brahmāsmi\" which means, \"I am Brahman\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "846983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=846983", "title": "Voluntarism (philosophy)", "text": "Voluntarism (philosophy)\n\nVoluntarism is \"any metaphysical or psychological system that assigns to the will (Latin: \"voluntas\") a more predominant role than that attributed to the intellect\", or, equivalently, \"the doctrine that will is the basic factor, both in the universe and in human conduct\". This description has been applied to various points of view, from different cultural eras, in the areas of metaphysics, psychology, political philosophy, and theology.\n\nThe term \"voluntarism\" was introduced by Ferdinand Tönnies into the philosophical literature and particularly used by Wilhelm Wundt and Friedrich Paulsen.\n\nAssociated with Duns Scotus and William of Ockham (two of the foremost medieval scholastic philosophers), medieval theological voluntarism is generally taken to be the philosophical emphasis on the divine will and human freedom (\"voluntas superior intellectu\"). For example, Scotus held that morality comes from God's will and choice rather than his intellect or knowledge. Accordingly, God should be defined as an omnipotent being whose actions should not and cannot be ultimately rationalized and explained through reason. As such, voluntarism is usually contrasted with intellectualism, championed by the scholastic Thomas Aquinas.\n\n'Theological voluntarism' also refers to theological commitments—that is, specific interpretations of doctrines of Christianity—arguably held by certain early modern natural philosophers such as Pierre Gassendi, Walter Charleton, Robert Boyle, Isaac Barrow, and Isaac Newton.\n\nIt resulted in an empirical approach associated with early modern science. Voluntarism therefore allows that faith or belief in God can be achieved by will as opposed to requiring a prior divine gift of faith to the individual. This notion holds at least in so far as it has found favor among some historians and philosophers (e.g., the historian Francis Oakley and the philosopher Michael B. Foster).\n\nA twentieth-century theologian of voluntarism was James Luther Adams.\n\nA proponent of metaphysical voluntarism is 19th-century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer. In his view, the will is not reasoning, but an irrational, unconscious urge, in relation to which the intellect represents a secondary phenomenon. The will is actually the force at the core of all reality.\n\nThis putting out of the drive–intention–vital dynamics later influenced Friedrich Nietzsche (will to power), Philipp Mainländer (will to die), Eduard von Hartmann, Julius Bahnsen and Sigmund Freud (will to pleasure)\n\nIn epistemology, voluntarism describes the view that belief is a matter of the will rather than one of simply registering one's cognitive attitude or degree of psychological certainty with respect to a stated proposition. If one is a voluntarist with respect to beliefs, it is coherent to simultaneously feel very certain about a particular proposition, P, and assign P a very low subjective probability. This is the basis of Bas van Fraassen's Principle of Reflection.\n\nPolitical voluntarism or voluntaryism is the view that understands political authority to be will-based. This view, which was propounded by theorists like Hobbes, Rousseau, and many members of the German idealist tradition, understands political authority as emanating from a will.\n\nIn Marxist discourse, \"voluntarism\" was used to designate a connection between a philosophical commitment to metaphysical voluntarism (especially Machism) and a political commitment to extreme revolutionary tactics, particularly associated with Alexander Bogdanov.\n\nMost self-identified voluntaryists today are right-libertarians, especially anarcho-capitalists.\n\nHugo Dingler's critical voluntarism in the philosophy of science is a form of conventionalism, which posits that theorizing in the sciences starts with an unavoidable free decision of the will. The successor school of Dingler's critical voluntarism is the methodical constructivism of the Erlangen School (cf. also the methodical culturalism of the Marburg School).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54770866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54770866", "title": "Đặng Huy Trứ", "text": "Đặng Huy Trứ\n\nĐặng Huy Trứ (, 1825 - 1874) was a Vietnamese official of Nguyễn dynasty.\n\nĐặng Huy Trứ has a courtesy name Hoàng Trung (黃中), pseudonym Vọng Tân (望津) or Tỉnh Trai (醒齋), nick name Sir Bố Đặng (翁布鄧 / Ông Bố Đặng) or Sir Bố Trứ (翁布𤏸 / Ông Bố Trứ). He was born on 16 May 1825 at Thanh Lương village, Hương Trà district, Thừa Thiên prefect but his ancestors from Bác Vọng village, Quảng Điền district.\n\n\n"}
