{"id": "1540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1540", "title": "Aeneas", "text": "Aeneas\n\nIn Greco-Roman mythology, Aeneas (; Greek: Αἰνείας, \"Aineías\", possibly derived from Greek meaning \"praised\") was a Trojan hero, the son of the prince Anchises and the goddess Aphrodite (Venus). His father was a first cousin of King Priam of Troy (both being grandsons of Ilus, founder of Troy), making Aeneas a second cousin to Priam's children (such as Hector and Paris). He is a character in Greek mythology and is mentioned in Homer's \"Iliad\". Aeneas receives full treatment in Roman mythology, most extensively in Virgil's \"Aeneid,\" where he is cast as an ancestor of Romulus and Remus. He became the first true hero of Rome. Snorri Sturluson identifies him with the Norse Æsir Vidarr.\n\nAeneas is the Latin spelling of Greek Αἰνείας (\"Aineías\"). In the Homeric Hymn to Aphrodite, Aeneas is first introduced with Aphrodite naming him Αἰνείας (\"Aineías\") for the αὶνóν ἄχος (\"terrible grief\") he caused her, where \"Aineías\" derives from the adjective αὶνóν (\"ainon\", meaning \"terrible\"). It is a popular etymology for the name, apparently exploited by Homer in the Iliad. Later in the Medieval period there were writers who held that, because the Aeneid was written by a philosopher it is meant to be read philosophically. As such, in the \"natural order\", the meaning of Aeneas' name combines Greek \"ennos\" (\"dweller\") and \"demas\" (\"body\"), which becomes \"ennaios\", meaning \"in-dweller\" (i.e. as a god inhabiting a mortal body). However, there is no certainty regarding the origin of his name.\n\nIn imitation of the \"Iliad\", Virgil borrows epithets of Homer, including; Anchisiades, \"magnanimum\", \"magnus\", \"heros\", and \"bonus\". Though he borrows many, Virgil gives Aeneas two epithets of his own in the \"Aeneid:\" \"pater\" and \"pius\". The epithets applied by Virgil are an example of an attitude different from that of Homer, for whilst Odysseus is \"poikilios\" (\"wily\"), Aeneas is described as \"pius\" (\"pious\"), which conveys a strong moral tone. The purpose of these epithets seems to enforce the notion of Aeneas' divine hand as father and founder of the Roman race, and their use seem circumstantial: when Aeneas is praying he refers to himself as pius, and is referred to as such by the author only when the character is acting on behalf of the gods to fulfill his divine mission. Likewise, Aeneas is called \"pater\" when acting in the interest of his men.\n\nThe story of the birth of Aeneas is told in the \"Hymn to Aphrodite\", one of the major Homeric Hymns. Aphrodite has caused Zeus to fall in love with mortal women. In retaliation, Zeus puts desire in her heart for Anchises, who is tending his cattle among the hills near Mount Ida. When Aphrodite sees him she is smitten. She adorns herself as if for a wedding among the gods and appears before him. He is overcome by her beauty, believing that she is a goddess, but Aphrodite identifies herself as a Phrygian princess. After they make love, Aphrodite reveals her true identity to him and Anchises fears what might happen to him as a result of their liaison. Aphrodite assures him that he will be protected, and tells him that she will bear him a son to be called Aeneas. However, she warns him that he must never tell anyone that he has lain with a goddess. When Aeneas is born, Aphrodite takes him to the nymphs of Mount Ida. She directs them to raise the child to age five, then take him to Anchises. According to other sources, Anchises later brags about his encounter with Aphrodite, and as a result is struck in the foot with a thunderbolt by Zeus. Thereafter he is lame in that foot, so that Aeneas has to carry him from the flames of Troy.\n\nAeneas is a minor character in the \"Iliad\", where he is twice saved from death by the gods as if for an as-yet-unknown destiny, but is an honorable warrior in his own right. Having held back from the fighting, aggrieved with Priam because in spite of his brave deeds he was not given his due share of honour, he leads an attack against Idomeneus to recover the body of his brother-in-law Alcathous at the urging of Deiphobus. He is the leader of the Trojans' Dardanian allies, as well as a second cousin and principal lieutenant of Hector, son of the Trojan king Priam. Aeneas's mother Aphrodite frequently comes to his aid on the battlefield, and he is a favorite of Apollo. Aphrodite and Apollo rescue Aeneas from combat with Diomedes of Argos, who nearly kills him, and carry him away to Pergamos for healing. Even Poseidon, who normally favors the Greeks, comes to Aeneas's rescue after he falls under the assault of Achilles, noting that Aeneas, though from a junior branch of the royal family, is destined to become king of the Trojan people. Bruce Louden presents Aeneas as a \"type\" in the tradition of Utnapishtim, Baucis and Philemon, and Lot; the just man spared the general destruction. Apollodorus explains that \"...the Greeks let him alone on account of his piety\".\n\nThe Roman mythographer Gaius Julius Hyginus (c. 64 BCE – CE 17) in his \"Fabulae\" credits Aeneas with killing 28 enemies in the Trojan War. Aeneas also appears in the Trojan narratives attributed to Dares Phrygius and Dictys of Crete\n\nThe history of Aeneas was continued by Roman authors. One influential source was the account of Rome's founding in Cato the Elder's \"Origines\". The Aeneas legend was well known in Virgil's day and appeared in various historical works, including the \"Roman Antiquities\" of the Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus (relying on Marcus Terentius Varro), \"Ab Urbe Condita\" by Livy (probably dependent on Quintus Fabius Pictor, fl. 200 BCE), and Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus (now extant only in an epitome by Justin).\n\nThe \"Aeneid\" explains that Aeneas is one of the few Trojans who were not killed or enslaved when Troy fell. Aeneas, after being commanded by the gods to flee, gathered a group, collectively known as the Aeneads, who then traveled to Italy and became progenitors of Romans. The Aeneads included Aeneas's trumpeter Misenus, his father Anchises, his friends Achates, Sergestus, and Acmon, the healer Iapyx, the helmsman Palinurus, and his son Ascanius (also known as Iulus, Julus, or Ascanius Julius). He carried with him the Lares and Penates, the statues of the household gods of Troy, and transplanted them to Italy.\n\nSeveral attempts to find a new home failed; one such stop was on Sicily, where in Drepanum, on the island's western coast, his father, Anchises, died peacefully.\n\nAfter a brief but fierce storm sent up against the group at Juno's request, Aeneas and his fleet made landfall at Carthage after six years of wanderings. Aeneas had a year-long affair with the Carthaginian queen Dido (also known as Elissa), who proposed that the Trojans settle in her land and that she and Aeneas reign jointly over their peoples. A marriage of sorts was arranged between Dido and Aeneas at the instigation of Juno, who was told that her favorite city would eventually be defeated by the Trojans' descendants. Aeneas's mother Venus (the Roman adaptation of Aphrodite) realized that her son and his company needed a temporary respite to reinforce themselves for the journey to come. However, the messenger god Mercury was sent by Jupiter and Venus to remind Aeneas of his journey and his purpose, compelling him to leave secretly. When Dido learned of this, she uttered a curse that would forever pit Carthage against Rome, an enmity that would culminate in the Punic Wars. She then committed suicide by stabbing herself with the same sword she gave Aeneas when they first met.\n\nAfter the sojourn in Carthage, the Trojans returned to Sicily where Aeneas organized funeral games to honor his father, who had died a year before. The company traveled on and landed on the western coast of Italy. Aeneas descended into the underworld where he met Dido (who turned away from him to return to her husband) and his father, who showed him the future of his descendants and thus the history of Rome.\n\nLatinus, king of the Latins, welcomed Aeneas's army of exiled Trojans and let them reorganize their lives in Latium. His daughter Lavinia had been promised to Turnus, king of the Rutuli, but Latinus received a prophecy that Lavinia would be betrothed to one from another land — namely, Aeneas. Latinus heeded the prophecy, and Turnus consequently declared war on Aeneas at the urging of Juno, who was aligned with King Mezentius of the Etruscans and Queen Amata of the Latins. Aeneas's forces prevailed. Turnus was killed, and Virgil's account ends abruptly.\n\nThe rest of Aeneas's biography is gleaned from other ancient sources, including Livy and Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\". According to Livy, Aeneas was victorious but Latinus died in the war. Aeneas founded the city of Lavinium, named after his wife. He later welcomed Dido's sister, Anna Perenna, who then committed suicide after learning of Lavinia's jealousy. After Aeneas's death, Venus asked Jupiter to make her son immortal. Jupiter agreed. The river god Numicus cleansed Aeneas of all his mortal parts and Venus anointed him with ambrosia and nectar, making him a god. Aeneas was recognized as the god Jupiter Indiges.\n\nSnorri Sturlason in the Prologue of The Edda, tells of the world as parted in three continents: Africa, Asia and the third part called Europe or Enea . Snorri also tells of a Trojan named Munon or Menon, who marries the daughter of the High King (Yfirkonungr) Priam called Troan and travels to distant lands, marries the Sybil and got a son, Tror, who, as Snorri tells, is identical to Thor. This tale resemble some episodes of the Aeneid . \nContinuations of Trojan matter in the Middle Ages had their effects on the character of Aeneas as well. The 12th-century French \"Roman d'Enéas\" addresses Aeneas's sexuality. Though Virgil appears to deflect all homoeroticism onto Nisus and Euryalus, making his Aeneas a purely heterosexual character, in the Middle Ages there was at least a suspicion of homoeroticism in Aeneas. The \"Roman d'Enéas\" addresses that charge, when Queen Amata opposes Aeneas's marrying Lavinia, claiming that Aeneas loved boys.\n\nMedieval interpretations of Aeneas were greatly influenced by both Virgil and other Latin sources. Specifically, the accounts by Dares and Dictys, which were reworked by 13th-century Italian writer Guido delle Colonne (in \"Historia destructionis Troiae\"), colored many later readings. From Guido, for instance, the Pearl Poet and other English writers get the suggestion that Aeneas's safe departure from Troy with his possessions and family was a reward for treason, for which he was chastised by Hecuba. In \"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight\" (late 14th century) the Pearl Poet, like many other English writers, employed Aeneas to establish a genealogy for the foundation of Britain, and explains that Aeneas was \"impeached for his perfidy, proven most true\" (line 4).\n\nAeneas had an extensive family tree. His wet-nurse was Caieta, and he is the father of Ascanius with Creusa, and of Silvius with Lavinia. Ascanius, also known as Iulus (or Julius), founded Alba Longa and was the first in a long series of kings. According to the mythology outlined by Virgil in the \"Aeneid,\" Romulus and Remus were both descendants of Aeneas through their mother Rhea Silvia, making Aeneas the progenitor of the Roman people. Some early sources call him their father or grandfather, but considering the commonly accepted dates of the fall of Troy (1184 BC) and the founding of Rome (753 BC), this seems unlikely. The Julian family of Rome, most notably Julius Cæsar and Augustus, traced their lineage to Ascanius and Aeneas, thus to the goddess Venus. Through the Julians, the Palemonids make this claim. The legendary kings of Britain – including King Arthur – trace their family through a grandson of Aeneas, Brutus.\n\nAeneas's consistent epithet in Virgil and other Latin authors is \"pius\", a term that connotes reverence toward the gods and familial dutifulness.\n\nIn the \"Aeneid\", Aeneas is described as strong and handsome, but neither his hair colour nor complexion are described. In late antiquity however sources add further physical descriptions. The \"De excidio Troiae\" of Dares Phrygius describes Aeneas as ‘‘auburn-haired, stocky, eloquent, courteous, prudent, pious, and charming.’’ There is also a brief physical description found in 6th century AD John Malalas' \"Chronographia\": ‘‘Aeneas: short, fat, with a good chest, powerful, with a ruddy complexion, a broad face, a good nose, fair skin, bald on the forehead, a good beard, grey eyes.’’\n\nAeneas and Dido are the main characters of a 17th-century broadside ballad called \"The Wandering Prince of Troy.\" The ballad ultimately alters Aeneas's fate from traveling on years after Dido's death to joining her as a spirit soon after her suicide.\n\nIn modern literature, Aeneas is the speaker in two poems by Allen Tate, \"Aeneas at Washington\" and \"Aeneas at New York.\" He is a main character in Ursula K. Le Guin's \"Lavinia\", a re-telling of the last six books of the \"Aeneid\" told from the point of view of Lavinia, daughter of King Latinus of Latium.\n\nAeneas appears in David Gemmell's \"Troy\" series as a main heroic character who goes by the name Helikaon.\n\nIn Rick Riordan's book series, \"The Heroes of Olympus\", Aeneas is regarded as the first Roman demigod, son of Venus rather than Aphrodite.\n\nAeneas is a title character in Henry Purcell's opera \"Dido and Aeneas\" (c. 1688), and one of the principal roles in Hector Berlioz' opera \"Les Troyens\" (c. 1857). Canadian composer James Rolfe composed his opera \"Aeneas and Dido\" (2007; to a libretto by André Alexis) as a companion piece to Purcell's opera.\n\nDespite its many dramatic elements, Aeneas's story has generated little interest from the film industry. Portrayed by Steve Reeves, he was the main character in the 1961 sword and sandal film \"Guerra di Troia\" (\"The Trojan War\"). Reeves reprised the role the following year in the film \"The Avenger\", about Aeneas's arrival in Latium and his conflicts with local tribes as he tries to settle his fellow Trojan refugees there.\n\nThe most recent cinematic portrayal of Aeneas was in the film \"Troy\", in which he appears as a youth charged by Paris to protect the Trojan refugees, and to continue the ideals of the city and its people. Paris gives Aeneas Priam's sword, in order to give legitimacy and continuity to the royal line of Troy – and lay the foundations of Roman culture. In this film, he is not a member of the royal family and does not appear to fight in the war.\n\nIn the role-playing game \"\" by White Wolf Game Studios, Aeneas figures as one of the mythical founders of the Ventrue Clan.\n\nin the action game \"\", Aeneas is a playable character. The game ends with him and the Aeneans fleeing Troy's destruction and, spurned by the words of a prophetess thought crazed, goes to a new country (Italy) where he will start an empire greater than Greece and Troy combined that shall rule the world for 1000 years, never to be outdone in the tale of men (The Roman Empire).\n\nIn the 2018 TV miniseries \"\", Aeneas is portrayed by Alfred Enoch.\n\nScenes depicting Aeneas, especially from the Aeneid, have been the focus of study for centuries. They have been the frequent subject of art and literature since their debut in the 1st century.\n\nThe artist Giovanni Battista Tiepolo was commissioned by Gaetano Valmarana in 1757 to fresco several rooms in the Villa Valmarana, the family villa situated outside Vicenza. Tiepolo decorated the \"palazzina\" with scenes from epics such as Homer's \"Iliad\" and Virgil's \"Aeneid\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50751753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50751753", "title": "Andi Muhammad Ghalib", "text": "Andi Muhammad Ghalib\n\nAndi Muhammad Ghalib (June 3, 1946 – May 9, 2016) was an Indonesian Military, politician, and diplomat. He served as the Attorney General of Indonesia from 1998 to 1999 within the Development Reform Cabinet of President B. J. Habibie. Ghalib resigned as Attorney General in June 1999 amid a corruption scandal.\n\nGhalib, an ethnic Bugis, was born in Bone in the present-day province of South Sulawesi on June 3, 1946. He was a native of Ujung Pandang, South Sulawesi.\n\nOn June 15, 1998, Indonesia's new President B. J. Habibie fired Indonesia's Suharto-era Attorney General, Sujono Atmonegoro, and appointed Maj. Gen. Andi Muhammad Ghalib as the country's new Attorney General. Ghalib has been serving as the director of the Indonesian National Armed Forces' law office at the time of his appointment. Ghalib as Attorney General of Indonesia within President Habibie's Development Reform Cabinet from June 1998 until June 1999.\n\nHowever, on June 3, 1999, which coincided with Ghalib's 53rd birthday, Teten Masduki, the then-head of Indonesia Corruption Watch (ICW), released an investigation which alleged that Ghalib and his wife had deposited an estimated 9 billion rupiah ($1.2 million), which was given by Indonesian tycoons and businessmen, in nine different bank accounts between September 1998 and May 1999. Ghalib announced that he would temporarily step down as Attorney General on June 14, 1999, with a letter of resignation dating from June 9.\n\nFrom 2008 until 2013, Ghalib served as the Ambassador of Indonesia to India.\n\nGhalib, a member of the United Development Party (PPP), was currently serving as a member of the People's Representative Council, also known as the House of Representatives, representing the South Sulawesi II electoral district at the time of his death in 2016. He died on May 9, 2016, at Medistra Hospital in Pancoran, South Jakarta, at the age of 69.\n"}
{"id": "315087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315087", "title": "Andrea Yates", "text": "Andrea Yates\n\nAndrea Pia Yates (née Kennedy; born July 2, 1964) is a former resident of Houston, Texas, who confessed to drowning her five children in their bathtub on June 20, 2001. She had been suffering for some time with very severe postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis. She was represented by Houston criminal defense attorney George Parnham. Chuck Rosenthal, the district attorney in Harris County, asked for the death penalty in her 2002 trial. Her case placed the M'Naghten Rules, along with the Irresistible Impulse Test, a legal test for sanity, under close public scrutiny in the United States. She was convicted of capital murder. After the guilty verdict, but before sentencing, the State abandoned its request for the death penalty in light of false testimony by one of its expert psychiatric witnesses. She was sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole after 40 years. The verdict was overturned on appeal.\n\nOn July 26, 2006, the Texas jury in her retrial found that Yates was not guilty by reason of insanity. She was consequently committed by the court to the North Texas State Hospital, Vernon Campus, a high-security mental health facility in Vernon, where she received medical treatment and was a roommate of Dena Schlosser, another woman who committed infanticide by killing her infant daughter. In January 2007, she was moved to a low security state mental hospital in Kerrville, Kerrville State Hospital.\n\nYates was born in Hallsville, Texas, the youngest of the five children of Jutta Karin Koehler, a German immigrant, and Andrew Emmett Kennedy, whose parents were Irish immigrants. She suffered from bulimia during her teenage years. She also suffered from depression, and at 17 she spoke to a friend about suicide.\n\nShe graduated from Milby High School in 1982. She was the class valedictorian, captain of the swim team, and an officer in the National Honor Society.\n\nYates completed a two-year pre-nursing program at the University of Houston and graduated from the University of Texas School of Nursing. From 1986 until 1994 she worked as a registered nurse at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. In summer 1989 she met Russell \"Rusty\" Yates, two months her junior, at the Sunscape Apartments in Houston. They soon moved in together and were married on April 17, 1993.\n\nThey announced that they \"would seek to have as many babies as nature allowed\", and bought a four-bedroom house in Friendswood, Texas. Their first child, Noah, was born in February 1994, just before Rusty accepted a job offer in Florida, so they relocated to a small trailer in Seminole. By the time of the birth of their third child, Paul, they moved back to Houston and purchased a GMC motor home.\n\nFollowing the birth of her fourth child, Luke, Yates became depressed. On June 16, 1999, Rusty found her shaking and chewing her fingers. The next day, she attempted to commit suicide by overdosing on pills. She was admitted to the hospital and prescribed antidepressants. Soon after her release, she begged Rusty to let her die as she held a knife up to her neck. Once again hospitalized, she was given a cocktail of medications including Haldol, an anti-psychotic drug. Her condition improved immediately and she was prescribed it on her release. After that, Rusty moved the family into a small house for the sake of her health. She appeared temporarily stabilized.\n\nIn July 1999, Yates suffered a nervous breakdown, which culminated in two suicide attempts and two psychiatric hospitalizations that summer. She was diagnosed with postpartum psychosis.\n\nYates's first psychiatrist, Dr. Eileen Starbranch, testified that she urged her and Rusty not to have any more children, as it would \"guarantee future psychotic depression\". They conceived their fifth and final child approximately 7 weeks after her discharge. She stopped taking Haldol in March 2000 and gave birth to her daughter, Mary, on November 30, 2000. She seemed to be coping well until the death of her father on March 12, 2001.\n\nYates then stopped taking medication, mutilated herself, and read the Bible feverishly. She stopped feeding Mary. She became so incapacitated that she required immediate hospitalization. On April 1, 2001 she came under the care of Dr. Mohammed Saeed. She was treated and released. On May 3, 2001, she degenerated back into a \"near catatonic\" state and filled the bathtub in the middle of the day; she would later confess to police that she had planned to drown the children that day, but had decided against doing it then. She was hospitalized the next day after a scheduled doctor visit; her psychiatrist determined she was probably suicidal and had filled the tub to drown herself.\n\nAt the time of the murders, Yates' family was living in the Houston suburb of Clear Lake City. She continued under Dr. Saeed's care until June 20, 2001, when Rusty left for work, leaving her alone to watch the children against Dr. Saeed's instructions to supervise her around the clock. His mother, Dora Yates, had been scheduled by him to arrive an hour later to take over for her. In the space of that hour, she drowned all five children.\n\nShe started with John, Paul, and Luke, and then laid them in her bed. She then drowned Mary, whom she left floating in the tub. Noah came in and asked what was wrong with Mary. He then ran, but she soon caught and drowned him. She left him floating in the tub and laid Mary in John's arms in the bed. She then called the police repeatedly saying she needed an officer but would not say why. Then she called Rusty, telling him to come home right away.\n\nYates confessed to drowning her children. Prior to her second trial, she told Dr. Michael Welner that she waited for Rusty to leave for work that morning before filling the bathtub because she knew he would have prevented her from harming them. After the murders, police found the family dog locked up; Rusty advised Welner that it had normally been allowed to run free, and was so when he had left the house that morning, leading the psychiatrist to allege that she locked it in a cage to prevent it from interfering with her killing the children one by one. Rusty got a family friend, George Parnham, to act as her attorney.\n\nAlthough the defense's expert testimony agreed that Yates was psychotic, Texas law requires that, in order to successfully assert the insanity defense, the defendant must prove that he or she could not discern right from wrong at the time of the crime. In March 2002, a jury rejected the insanity defense and found her guilty. Although the prosecution had sought the death penalty, the jury refused that option. The trial court sentenced her to life imprisonment in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice with eligibility for parole in 40 years.\n\nOn January 6, 2005, a Texas Court of Appeals reversed the convictions, because California psychiatrist and prosecution witness Dr. Park Dietz admitted he had given materially false testimony during the trial. In his testimony, Dietz had stated that shortly before the murders, an episode of \"Law & Order\" had aired featuring a woman who drowned her children and was acquitted of murder by reason of insanity. Author, and later Yale University lecturer, Suzanne O'Malley, was covering the trial for \"\", \"The New York Times Magazine\" and NBC News. She had previously been a writer for \"Law & Order\" and immediately reported that no such episode existed; Two years later, in 2004, \"\" did air the episode \"\", based in part on Yates's case. The appellate court held unanimously that the jury might have been influenced by Dietz's false testimony and therefore a new trial would be necessary. On January 9, 2006, Yates again entered pleas of not guilty by reason of insanity. On February 1, 2006, she was granted release on bail on the condition that she be admitted to a mental health treatment facility.\n\nOn July 26, 2006, after three days of deliberations, Yates was found not guilty by reason of insanity, as defined by the state of Texas. She was thereafter committed to the North Texas State Hospital–Vernon Campus. In January 2007, she was moved to the Kerrville State Hospital, a low security mental facility in Kerrville, TX. \n\nAlthough psychiatrists for both Texas's state prosecutors and her defense lawyers agreed that she was severely mentally ill with one of several psychotic diseases at the time she killed her children, the state of Texas asserted that she was by legal definition aware enough to judge her actions as right or wrong despite her mental defect. The prosecution further implied spousal revenge as motive for the killings, despite the conclusion of defense experts that there was no evidence to support such a motive. Although the original jury believed she was legally aware of her actions, they disagreed that her motive was spousal-revenge.\n\nAccording to trial testimony in 2006, Dr. Saeed advised Rusty, a former NASA engineer, not to leave Yates unattended. However, he began leaving her alone with the children in the weeks leading up to the drownings for short periods of time, apparently to improve her independence. He had announced at a family gathering the weekend before the drownings that he had decided to leave her home alone for an hour each morning and evening, so that she would not become totally dependent on him and his mother for her maternal responsibilities.\n\nYates's brother, Brian Kennedy, told Larry King on a broadcast of CNN's \"Larry King Live\" that Rusty expressed to him in 2001 while transporting her to Devereux treatment facility that all depressed people needed was a \"swift kick in the pants\" to get them motivated. Her mother, Jutta Kennedy, expressed shock when she heard of Rusty's plan while at the gathering with them, saying Yates wasn't stable enough to care for the children. She noted that Yates demonstrated she wasn't in her right mind when she nearly choked Mary by trying to feed her solid food.\n\nAccording to authors Suzy Spencer and Suzanne O'Malley, who investigated her story in great detail, it was during a phone call Dr. Saeed made to Rusty during the breaking news of the killings that Saeed first learned that she was not being supervised full-time. Yates's first psychiatrist, Dr. Eileen Starbranch, says she was shocked to disbelief when, during an office visit with the couple, they expressed a desire to discontinue her medications so she could become pregnant again. She warned and counseled them against having more children, and noted in the medical record two days later, \"Apparently patient and husband plan to have as many babies as nature will allow! This will surely guarantee future psychotic depression.\" Nevertheless, Yates became pregnant with her fifth child, Mary, only 7 weeks after being discharged from Dr. Starbranch's care on January 12, 2000.\n\nRusty stated to the media he was never told by psychiatrists that his wife was psychotic nor that she could harm the children, and that, had he known otherwise, he would have never had more children. \"'If I'd known she was psychotic, we'd never have even considered having more kids', he told the \"Dallas Observer\"\". However, she revealed to her prison psychiatrist, Dr. Melissa Ferguson, that prior to their last child, \"she had told Rusty that she did not want to have sex because Dr. Starbranch had said she might hurt her children.\" Rusty, she said, simply asserted his procreative religious beliefs, complimented her as a good mother, and persuaded her that she could handle more children.\n\nO'Malley highlighted Rusty's continuing sense of unreality regarding having more children: \n\nDuring the trial, he'd successfully maintained the position that Yates would be found innocent. He had fantasies of having more children with her after she was successfully treated in a mental health facility and released on the proper medication. He worked his way through various fixes for their damaged lives, such as a surrogate motherhood and adoption (horrifying her family, attorneys and Houston psychiatrists) before giving in to reality.\n\nRusty contended that as a psychiatrist, Dr. Saeed was responsible for recognizing and properly treating Yates's psychosis, not a medically untrained person like himself.\n\nYates claimed that, despite his urging to check her medical records for prior treatment, Dr. Saeed had refused to continue her regimen of the antipsychotic Haldol, the treatment that had worked for her during her first breakdown in 1999.\n\nThe real question to me is: How could she have been so ill and the medical community not diagnose her, not treat her, and obviously not protect our family from her ... Rusty testified that he never knew that she had visions and voices; he said he never knew she had considered killing the children. Neither did Dr. Saeed, even though the delusions could have been found in medical records from 1999 ... he reluctantly prescribed Haldol, the same drug that worked in a drug cocktail for her in 1999. But after a few weeks, he took her off the drug, citing his concerns about side effects ... though her condition seemed to be worsening two days before the drownings, when Rusty drove her to Dr. Saeed's office, he testified, the doctor refused to try Haldol longer or return her to the hospital. \n\nHe added that his wife was too sick to be discharged from her last stay in the hospital in May 2001. He said he noticed the staff lower their heads as if in shame and embarrassment, turning away without saying a word. The hospital had no other choice due to the ten-day psychiatric hospitalization insurance constraints of their provider, Blue Cross Blue Shield, subcontracted by Magellan Health Services.\n\nRusty and his birth family claimed a combination of antidepressants improperly prescribed by Dr. Saeed in the days before the tragedy was responsible for Yates's violent, psychotic behavior. \"Andrea was on 450 mg of Effexor (Venlafaxine hydrochloride), among other medications, and was in his opinion, severely overmedicated. The psychiatrist said he would reduce the Effexor from 450 mg to 300 mg. He protested and quoted his own extensive research on the antidepressant. He said he read it shouldn't be reduced by more than 75 mg every three or four days, not 150 mg in one day.\"\n\nAccording to Dr. Moira Dolan, executive director of the Medical Accountability Network, \"homicidal ideation\" was added to the warning label of the antidepressant drug Effexor as a rare adverse event, in 2005. Yates, she said, had been taking 450 mg, twice the recommended maximum dose, for a month before killing her children. Dolan reviewed her medical record at the request of Rusty. \"Yates had been prescribed Effexor in varying doses since shortly after her first suicide attempt in 1999, said Dolan, who reviewed her medical records after her first trial at the request of Rusty. A month before the murders, her daily dose had increased to 450 milligrams, twice the recommended maximum dose, Dolan said.\"\n\nDr. Lucy Puryear, an expert witness hired by Yates's defense team, countered their contention regarding the administration of her antidepressants, saying the dosages prescribed by Dr. Saeed are not uncommon in practice and had nothing at all to do with her re-emergent psychosis. She suggested rather that her psychosis returned as a result of the Haldol having been discontinued by her doctor two weeks earlier. The oral form of haloperidol (Haldol) takes 4–6 days after discontinuation to reach a terminal plasma level of under 1.5%—a medical standard for \"complete\" elimination of a drug from the body.\n\nMedia outlets alleged that Michael Woroniecki, an itinerant preacher whom Rusty had met while attending Auburn University, bears some responsibility for the deaths due to his \"fire and brimstone\" message and certain teachings found in his newsletter \"The Perilous Times\" that they had received on occasion and which was entered into evidence at the trial.\n\nIn the aftermath of her 2006 retrial and insanity verdict, television journalist Chris Cuomo reported on ABC Primetime that: \"[Andrea Yates's ]delusions were fueled by the extreme religious beliefs of a bizarre, itinerant street preacher named Michael Woroniecki ...\" Both Rusty Yates and Michael Woroniecki have rejected these accusations.\n\nRusty said his family's relationship with the Woronieckis was not that close and that Woroniecki did not cause her delusions. Woroniecki maintained that his correspondence with them was with the intention of helping them strengthen their marriage and find the love that he says his own family had found in Jesus. Both men agreed the alleged connection between his message and her mental state was \"nothing more than media created fiction\".\n\nWhile in prison, Yates stated she had considered killing the children for two years, adding that they thought she was not a good mother and claimed her sons were developing improperly. She told her jail psychiatrist: \"It was the seventh deadly sin. My children weren't righteous. They stumbled because I was evil. The way I was raising them, they could never be saved. They were doomed to perish in the fires of hell.\" She told her jail psychiatrist that Satan influenced her children and made them more disobedient.\n\nIn August 2004, Rusty filed for divorce, stating that he and Yates had not lived together as a married couple since the day of the murders. The divorce was granted on March 17, 2005, after which Rusty began dating his second wife, Laura Arnold. They married on March 25, 2006, and had one son. She filed for divorce in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47544530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47544530", "title": "Beverly Hungry Wolf", "text": "Beverly Hungry Wolf\n\nBeverly Hungry Wolf (Sikski-Aki, or Black-faced Woman; born 1950) is a Canadian writer and a member of the Blackfoot Confederacy.\n\nShe was born Beverly Little Bear in 1950 near Cardston, Alberta, on Blood Indian Reserve No. 148, and studied at a Catholic residential school on the reserve. The school discouraged interest in her tribe's traditions, but, as an adult, she started investigating and recording them after she married a German man, Adolph Gutöhrlein. Gutöhrlein was fascinated with First Nations' culture, having immersed himself in it and adopting the surname Hungry Wolf.\n\nAlong with her husband, Hungry Wolf has published a number of books about her personal and her people's experiences. She interviewed her female relatives and tribal elders, collecting information about gender roles, domestic arts, child rearing, myths and legends, which she published in \"Ways of my Grandmothers\" (1980). Her interview subjects included her grandmother, Anada-Aki, her aunt, Mary One Spot, and tribal elder, Paula Weasel Head.\n\nShe and her husband live in British Columbia and have five children.\n"}
{"id": "48397797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48397797", "title": "Bilkisu Yusuf", "text": "Bilkisu Yusuf\n\nBilkisu Yusuf, also known as Hajiya Bilkisu Yusuf, (December 2, 1952 – September 24, 2015), was a Nigerian journalist, columnist and editor for prominent newspapers in Abuja, Kano and Kaduna, Nigeria. She is known in Nigeria for being the first woman to direct a national newspaper operation and served as editor for two more. She was a Hausa, Muslim, feminist, and advocate for interfaith society, who was known for being an adviser to the Nigerian President on International Affairs and the founding of NGOs, such as Women In Nigeria (WIN) and the Federation of Muslim Women's Association (FOMWAN). Yusuf was killed in the 2015 Mina stampede while on Haj in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.\n\nBilkisu Yusuf was born December 2, 1952. She advanced from her primary education at Ansar Primary School, Kano in 1964 to secondary school at the Government Girls College, Dala, Kano.\n\nYusuf's higher education was in both political science and journalism. She earned her bachelor's degree in political science at Ahmadu Bello University in Zaria, Nigeria; her master's degree in political science and international relations from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in Madison, Wisconsin, United States; and an advanced degree in journalism from the International Journalism School at Moscow State Institute of International Relations in Moscow, Russia, in 1986.\n\nShe was first married to Alhaji Sanusi Ciroma Yusuf, who eventually became the Chief Judge of State. The couple had two children, a son Moshood Sanusi Yusuf and a daughter Nana Fatima. They later divorced. Her first husband died at the age of 73. She married her second husband, Mustapha Bintube.\n\nHajiya Bilkisu Yusuf was given the honorary title Hajiya after completing the pilgrimage to Mecca (Haji is the male form). She died while serving as a leader of women on behalf of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria.\n\nBilkisu Yusuf was a journalist for the \"Daily Trust\" and \"Leadership\" newspapers in Abuja, Nigeria. After her return from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, she became the first female editor at the \"Sunday Triumph\", Kano, from 1983-1987. She also held the title of editor at the \"New Nigerian\", Kaduna, in 1987 and \"Citizen Magazine\", Kaduna, in 1990. She was known for her column \"Civil Society Watch\". She was active in The Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), which mentored young female journalists in Nigeria.\n\nYusuf was the adviser to the Nigerian President on International Affairs. She was also a notable women's right's activist. She founded several NGOs, such as Women In Nigeria (WIN), which was one of the earliest feminist organizations in Nigeria, Federation of Muslim Women's Associations in Nigeria (FOMWAN), the Nigerian Interfaith Action Association Against Malaria (NIFAAM), and Health Reform Foundation of Nigeria (HERFON), She was executive director of Advocacy Nigeria. She was also active in the Bring Back Our Girls, which was aimed at the safe return of the Chibok girls.\n\nA stampede occurred at an intersection in Mina, Saudi Arabia on September 24, 2015, at about 9 a.m. The crowds were on their way from Muzdalifah to Jaramat, where pilgrims cast stones at pillars to symbolize the stoning of the devil during the Hajj. From there they would head to the Grand Mosque in Mecca. Over 2,000 pilgrims were trampled to death during the stampede and almost 200 of those were identified as Nigerian citizens. Bilkisu Yusuf was identified among those killed by the stampede. Other prominent Nigerians who were trampled to death in the stampede include Professor Tijjani El-Miskin.\n\nSaudi Arabia is a Middle Eastern country with a population of 27,752,316. It is home to the two of the most sacred mosques in the Muslim religion. One of those is Masjid al-Haram in Mecca, which is the destination of the Hajj pilgrimage. And the other is Medina's Masjid an-Nabawi, burial site of the Prophet Muhammad. The pilgrimage to Mecca is the fifth pillar of Islam and according to its belief should be conducted at least once in every Muslim's life. This pilgrimage is done by thousands of people each year from all across the world.\n\nNigeria is a country in West Africa. Their society has strong patriarchal ties, which leads to much discrimination against women. They also have a problem with extreme poverty and drugs. Boko Haram in 2014 abducted 219 Chibok school girls, which brought worldwide attention to efforts to rescue the girls. However, about 100 were found in April–May 2017.\n\nThe office of Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari released the following statement following the stampede: \"President Buhari commiserates with the Nigerian Guild of Editors and the Nigerian Union of Journalists on the sad loss of Hajiya Bilkisu, an exemplary, dedicated, knowledgeable, very credible, highly-respected, outstanding editor and columnist who, even in death, will remain a glittering role model for journalists, within and outside Nigeria.\"\n\nJibrin Ibrahim, director of the Centre for Democracy and Development described Yusuf as \"great humanist, advocate, journalist, networker and above all a devoted Muslim, who died in the course of serving God.\"\n\nDr Oby Ezekwesili, director of Bring Back Our Girls and a former minister of Education in Nigeria, said, \"Bilkisu fought all her life for child education. She has been consistent on her advocacy. She never wearied until it was time to go. We celebrate the great strides of our sister. We were delighted to have her as part of our extended family.\"\n\nAliyu Muktar, a former editor at Triumph newspaper who worked with Yusuf, said, \"She was for me a role model; an excellent career woman, very thorough and unassuming. You know, she was brave, sincere and always fighting for the downtrodden. You also know her antecedent; Hajia was somebody who would not tolerate injustice anywhere.\"\n\nBilkisu Yusuf was one of the 42 journalists interviewed for the encyclopedic reference \"Nigerian Journalism\" written by Mike Awoyinfa and Dimgba Igwe.\n\n"}
{"id": "3433878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3433878", "title": "Bill Tilghman", "text": "Bill Tilghman\n\nWilliam Matthew \"Bill\" Tilghman Jr. (July 4, 1854 – November 1, 1924) was a career lawman and gunfighter during the Wild West days of Kansas and Oklahoma. He was city marshal in Dodge City, participated in the Kansas County Seat Wars, and moved on to Oklahoma where he participated in the land rushes, including the Cherokee Strip Land Rush. He served as a Deputy U.S. Marshal in Oklahoma and was celebrated for capturing the outlaw Bill Doolin. Tilghman never achieved the household-word status of his close friends Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson but released his memoirs in a film that he directed and starred in as himself. He died at the age of seventy, after being shot down on the streets of Cromwell, Oklahoma. The fame that Bill Tilghman did achieve was largely due to the efforts of his second wife, who wrote his biography in 1949.\n\nWilliam Matthew Tilghman Jr. was born on July 4, 1854, in Fort Dodge, Iowa. He was the third of six children born to William Matthew Tilghman Sr. (1820–1908) and his wife Amanda Shepherd (1830–1915).\n\nDuring 1857, the Tilghman family relocated to Kansas and settled on a farm near Atchison. At the age of seventeen, Bill Tilghman won a contract to supply buffalo meat to the men building the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railroad. From September 1, 1871, to April 1, 1872, Tilghman was supposed to have killed 3,300 buffalo. He would claim this was the \"all time record\" in later years. According to Zoe Tilghman, his second wife, he killed two Cheyenne braves when they confronted him, as he feared they would torture him.\n\nAccording to his second wife, Tilghman first became a lawman during September 1874, when he signed on as a deputy under Sheriff Charles E. Bassett (1847–1896) of Ford County, Kansas. Despite his second wife's claim, there is no record of Tilghman serving as Bassett's deputy. Sometime during the summer 1877, 23 year-old Bill Tilghman married a 16-year-old widow named Flora (Kendall) Jefferson (1861–1900). The marriage was an unhappy one almost from the start, but nonetheless produced four children: Charles, Dorothy, William and Viona.\n\nEarly in 1877 Tilghman and Henry Garris opened the Crystal Palace Saloon in Dodge City. A local paper reported during the summer that \"Garris and Tilghman's Crystal Palace is receiving a new front and an awning, which will tend to create a new attraction towards the never ceasing fountains of refreshment flowing within.\" During the spring of 1878, Tilghman and his partner, Henry Garris, sold the Crystal Palace Saloon.\n\nBill Tilghman's first documented service as a lawman began on January 1, 1878, when he became a deputy under Sheriff Bat Masterson. Within a month of his appointment, Tilghman was charged with being an accessory to an attempted train robbery. On February 12, 1878, the charges against Tilghman were dropped for lack of evidence. Tilghman was again suspected of a crime only two months later, on April 16, 1878, when he was arrested by his boss, Masterson, on a charge of horse theft. Once again the charges were dismissed. Troubles of a different sort came up on March 8, 1879, when Masterson had to sell his deputy's Dodge City house, at auction, to satisfy a judgment.\n\nOn November 6, 1883, Patrick F. Sughrue (1844–1906) was elected sheriff of Ford Conty, Kansas, and Bill Tilghman became his deputy. During this period, Tilghman also owned a Dodge City saloon called the Oasis, which he sold to his brother Frank during early April 1884. According to a local paper, \"William Tilghman, Esq, proprietor of the 'Oasis,' has sold out to his brother Frank, who will refit and fix up and make everything smooth and harmonious to the visitor.\" Tilghman gained his first important lawman's position on April 10, 1884, when he was appointed city marshal of Dodge City. On May 2, 1884, the citizens of Dodge presented Tilghman with a solid gold badge. Bill Tilghman's widow, in her biography of her husband, wrote that City Marshal Bill Tilghman and Assistant Marshal Ben Daniels ran \"Mysterious Dave Mather\" out of Dodge during late July 1885. Mather's 1992 biographer said the story does not add up for many reasons. The most obvious is that Mather was scheduled to stand trial for murder, which raises the question why Dodge City's marshal and assistant marshal would run out an indicted man. On March 9, 1886, Tilghman resigned as city marshal of Dodge City to tend to his ranch. The great blizzard of 1886 wiped out the livestock on many ranches in the area, including a ranch that Tilghman owned.\n\nTilghman still held a commission as a Ford County deputy sheriff. Law enforcement duties brought him to Farmer City, Kansas, on his thirty-fourth birthday – July 4, 1888 – when he shot and killed a man named Ed Prather. The local paper reported that Prather \"made frequent threats against Wm. Tilghman, the deputy sheriff, who took all the abuse from the excited man without offering any retaliation ... in conversation with Mr. Tilghman, he became very abusive and threatened to put an end to him right there, and suiting action to his words, he threw his hand upon his revolver; but Mr. Tilghman was too quick for him and held a revolver in his face. Mr. T. ordered him three times to take his hand off his gun, and would have disarmed him if he had been near enough; but Prather sought a better position, but Tilghman pulled the trigger and Prather was a dead man. A coroner's jury ... after a thorough examination of the circumstances, returned a verdict of justifiable killing.\" \n\nDuring January 1889, Bill Tilghman was one of several Dodge City gunfighters involved in the Gray County War, a county seat war fought between the rival Kansas towns of Ingalls and Cimarron. During a pitched battle between the two factions, one man was killed and five were wounded. Tilghman escaped with nothing more serious than a sprained ankle.\n\nOn April 22, 1889, the first of the celebrated Oklahoma land rushes took place. The city of Guthrie, which had not existed the day before, had an instant population of 15,000. One member of that population was Bill Tilghman, who built a commercial structure on his Oklahoma Avenue lot and used the rent from it to help re-establish himself as a rancher. For the remaining thirty-five years of his life, Tilghman would be an Oklahoman. Another land rush was held on September 22, 1891, and Bill Tilghman established a ranch. During this period, Oklahoma was suffering from the depredations of numerous outlaws, most notably Bill Doolin and his gang, the Wild Bunch. During May 1892, Tilghman was appointed a deputy U.S. marshal. Tilghman joined forces with fellow deputy marshals such as Heck Thomas, Chris Madsen, Frank Canton, and Bud Ledbetter to wage total war on the outlaws active in the territory.\n\nThe Cherokee Strip land rush happened on September 16, 1893. The new town of Perry, Oklahoma, was created, and Bill Tilghman was appointed city marshal of Perry on October 21, 1893. Heck Thomas was hired as assistant marshal. Both Tilghman and Thomas retained their commissions as deputy U.S. marshals. Once law and order was established in Perry, Tilghman went back on the trail of the Doolin gang. There is a famous, and totally fictional, story told about how Tilghman entered a \"dugout\" on January 8, 1895. Tilghman supposedly detected the tips of several rifles pointed at him, from hidden positions in the dugout. According to this story, one of the hidden outlaws attempted to shoot Tilghman in the back, but was prevented from doing so by Bill Doolin himself, who stated: \"Bill Tilghman is too good a man to shoot in the back.\" Slow but sure, the Doolin gang was exterminated. Chris Madsen's posse killed \"Tulsa Jack\" Blake on April 4, 1895. George \"Bitter Creek\" Newcomb and Charley Pierce were killed on May 2. Then on September 6, 1895, Tilghman and two other deputy marshals tracked down William F. \"Little Bill\" Raidler. After being ordered to surrender, Raidler opened fire and was brought down by a blast from Tilghman's shotgun. The outlaw survived his wounds and was sentenced to ten years.\n\nThe high point of Tilghman's career came on January 15, 1896, when he single-handedly captured Bill Doolin. Tilghman had trailed Doolin to the health resort of Eureka Springs, Arkansas. Tilghman entered a bath house, and spotted Bill Doolin seated in the lobby. Doolin failed to recognize Tilghman, who suddenly began wrestling with the outlaw. After a brief struggle, Tilghman subdued Doolin without a shot being fired. Once Doolin was in custody, Tilghman wired U.S. Marshal Evett Dumas Nix at Guthrie, Oklahoma: \"I have him. We will be there tomorrow. Tilghman.\" The following day, some 2,000 people jammed the Guthrie railroad station to see Tilghman bring in Doolin.\n\nThe remainder of the Doolin gang was soon killed or captured. A posse killed George \"Red Buck\" Waightman on March 4, 1896 and \"Dynamite Dick\" Clifton was rounded up shortly afterward. Tilghman's glory for capturing Bill Doolin quickly evaporated on July 5, when Doolin escaped from jail. Doolin was finally tracked down by Heck Thomas and his posse and was shot to death on August 24, 1896. Tilghman never received the reward money for Doolin's capture, which Oklahoma refused to pay after Doolin escaped. The last two members of the Doolin gang were accounted for when \"Dynamite Dick\" Clifton was killed on November 7, 1897, followed by the death of \"Little Dick\" West on April 8, 1898.\n\nDuring 1899, Tilghman established the Oakland Stock Farm which bred thoroughbred horses. Bill traveled to Kentucky for two of his studs. One of them was \"Chant,\" the winner of the 1894 Kentucky Derby. Prosperous and popular, Tilghman won an easy election as sheriff of Lincoln County, Oklahoma in 1900. He was re-elected two years later. Flora Kendall Tilghman died at the age of thirty-nine on October 12, 1900. Bill and Flora Tilghman had an unhappy marriage, and were living apart at the time of her death. Contrary to latter day reports, there is no evidence that they were divorced at the time of her death.\n\nOn July 15, 1903, the 49 year-old Bill Tilghman married for a second time. The bride, Zoe Agnes Stratton (1880–1964), was twenty-six years younger and a graduate of the University of Oklahoma. Bill and Zoe Tilghman had three sons named Tench, Richard, and Woodrow.\n\nThe 19th Democratic Party Convention was held in St. Louis between July 6–9, 1904. Alton Brooks Parker (1852–1926) received the nomination for President. Tilghman was part of the Oklahoma delegation, and was part of a group of Democrats who journeyed to Parker's home to inform him of his nomination. While in New York, Tilghman looked up his old friend Bat Masterson, who was now a journalist working for the \"New York Morning Telegraph\". Bat introduced Tilghman to President Theodore Roosevelt, who defeated Alton Brooks Parker in the 1904 election. Tilghman's being a Democrat probably accounted for his failure to receive the appointment from Roosevelt that he coveted above all others – United States Marshal of Oklahoma. Roosevelt had offered the position to Bat Masterson, who turned it down. For a while Roosevelt considered Chris Madsen (who had served with the Rough Riders), but the appointment finally went to someone else. Tilghman was never in the running. President Roosevelt remained fond of Tilghman, however, and invited him to be his special guest at the inauguration of William Howard Taft on March 4, 1909. With his powerful political connections, Tilghman easily won election as an Oklahoma state senator in 1910. Following his term in the senate, Tilghman became chief of police in Oklahoma City on May 8, 1911. He served two years and helped rid Oklahoma City of much of its criminal element.\n\nInstead of writing his memoirs, Tilghman recounted his Oklahoma adventures in the form of a film. On January 18, 1915, Tilghman, Evett Dumas Nix, and Chris Madsen formed the Eagle Film Company. Nix had the title of president, Tilghman was vice-president and treasurer and Chris Madsen was designated as secretary. After a screenwriter, cameraman and cast were hired, filming began on \"The Passing of the Oklahoma Outlaws\". The film had its premier in Chandler, Oklahoma, on May 25, 1915. Tilghman took the film on the road for several years, during which he appeared on stage and gave lectures. \"The Passing of the Oklahoma Outlaws\" originally ran for about 96 minutes. Today, only thirteen minutes of the film survive. Tilghman produced with Nix and Madsen, directed with Kent, wrote with Lute P. Stover, and starred in the film as himself. Nix, Madsen, and Roy Daugherty also appeared as themselves. Academic Frank Richard Prassel called the film \"a major source of popular disinformation\", as it features staged scenes purported by the filmmakers to be real.\n\nIn 1924, at the age of seventy, Tilghman entered Cromwell, Oklahoma, as a special investigator. He had previously clashed there with a corrupt U.S. prohibition agent, Wiley Lynn, and confronted him when he heard that Lynn was drunkenly discharging his gun. Tilghman attempted to take Lynn into custody without using his own pistol, and, with the help of a bystander, disarmed Lynn. However, Lynn pulled a second pistol and shot Tilghman several times, killing him. In a controversial trial, Lynn was acquitted of murder after pleading self-defense. Lynn was later shot and killed in a gunfight in 1932.\n\nGovernor Martin E. Trapp (1877–1951) directed that Tilghman's body lie in state in the rotunda of the Oklahoma capitol building and be attended by an honor guard. Tilghman's pall bearers included Governor Trapp, former Governor J.B.A Robertson, Oklahoma Attorney General George Short, and U.S. Marshal Alva McDonald. He is the third person ever and first police officer to have received such honors. His burial was in Chandler, Oklahoma. A park in the town is named for him.\n\nIn 1956, actor Donald \"Don\" Kennedy (b. 1920) played \"Deputy Bill Tillman\" in an episode called \"Dodge City Gets a New Marshal \" on the syndicated television series \"The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp\".\n\nOn February 13, 1960, actor Brad Johnson played Tilghman in an episode called \"The Wedding Dress\" on the syndicated television series \"Death Valley Days\" (Season 8, Episode 18). Actress Mary Webster was cast as Mrs. Tilghma\".\nIn 1981, Tilghman was portrayed by Rod Steiger (1925–2002) in \"Cattle Annie and Little Britches\", a 97-minute film which also starred Burt Lancaster (1913–1994) as Bill Doolin.\n\nOn August 22, 1999, TNT broadcast the made-for-television film \"You Know My Name\", which starred Sam Elliott (1944- ) as Bill Tilghman, Carolyn McCormick (1959- ) as Zoe Tilghman and Arliss Howard (1954- ) as Wiley Lynn. The film was a highly fictionalized account of Tilghman's final months and death.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41897848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41897848", "title": "Bryan Cranston filmography", "text": "Bryan Cranston filmography\n\nThe following is the filmography of American actor, producer, director and screenwriter Bryan Cranston.\n\n"}
{"id": "54747655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54747655", "title": "Death and state funeral of Joseph Stalin", "text": "Death and state funeral of Joseph Stalin\n\nOn 5 March 1953, at 21:50 EET, Joseph Stalin, the second leader of the Soviet Union, died at the Kuntsevo Dacha aged 74 after suffering a stroke. After four days of national mourning, Stalin was given a state funeral and then buried in Lenin's Mausoleum on 9 March. Nikita Khrushchev, Georgy Malenkov, Vyacheslav Molotov and Lavrentiy Beria were in charge of organizing the funeral.\n\nOn 6 March, the coffin with Stalin's body was displayed at the Hall of Columns in the House of the Unions and it stayed there for three days. On 9 March, the body of Stalin was delivered to Red Square to be interred in Lenin's Mausoleum where he lay in state until 1961. Speeches were delivered by Khrushchev, Malenkov, Molotov, and Beria. After the speeches, pallbearers carried the coffin to the mausoleum. As Stalin's body was being put into the mausoleum, a military band played the Soviet National Anthem. After the anthem played, a military parade of the Moscow Garrison was held in Stalin's honor. In the public's efforts to pay their respects to Stalin's casket, a number of people died as they were crushed and trampled by the amassed crowd. Khrushchev provided an estimate that 109 people died in the crowd.\n\nAccording to \"Ogoniok\", the mourners included the following foreign dignitaries:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13534492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13534492", "title": "Edward Butler (inventor)", "text": "Edward Butler (inventor)\n\nEdward Butler (1862–1940) was an English inventor who produced an early three-wheeled petrol automobile called the Butler Petrol Cycle, which is accepted by many as the first British car.\n\nButler showed plans for his three-wheeled petrol vehicle at the Stanley Cycle Show in London in 1884, two years earlier than Karl Benz, who is generally recognized as the inventor of the modern automobile. Butler's vehicle was also the first design to be shown at the 1885 Inventions Exhibition, also in London.\n\nBuilt by the Merryweather Fire Engine company in Greenwich, in 1888, the Butler Petrol Cycle (first recorded use of the term) was a three-wheeled petrol vehicle. The rear wheel was directly driven by a /hp (466W) 600 cc (40 in; 2¼×5-inch {57×127-mm}) flat twin four-stroke engine (with magneto ignition replaced by coil and battery), equipped with rotary valves and a float-fed carburettor (five years before Maybach), and Ackermann steering, all of which were state of the art at the time. The engine was liquid-cooled, with a radiator over the rear driving wheel. Speed was controlled by means of a throttle valve lever. The driver was seated between the front wheels.\n\nThe vehicle featured in an article in the 14 February 1891 issue of \"Scientific American\", where it was stated that one gallon of fuel in the form of petroleum or benzolene could propel the vehicle for forty miles (5.9 L/100 km) at a speed of 3–10 mph (5–16 km/h).\n\nButler improved the specifications of his vehicle over the years, but was prevented from adequately testing it due to the 1865 Red Flag Act, which legislated a maximum speed for self-propelled road vehicles of 2 mph (3 km/h) in built up areas and 4 mph (6.5 km/h) in rural areas. Additionally, the vehicle had to be attended by three people, one of whom had to proceed in front of the vehicle waving a red flag.\n\nButler wrote in the magazine \"The English Mechanic\" in 1890, \"The authorities do not countenance its use on the roads, and I have abandoned in consequence any further development of it.\"\n\nDue to general lack of interest, Butler broke up his machine for scrap in 1896, and sold the patent rights to Harry J. Lawson who continued manufacture of the engine for use in motorboats.\n\nInstead, Butler turned to making stationary and marine engines. His motor tricycle was in advance of its better-known contemporaries on several points.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12533502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12533502", "title": "Elizabeth Nyaruai", "text": "Elizabeth Nyaruai\n\nElizabeth Nyaruai (born appr. 1917) was Kenya's first female police officer. Nyaruai lives alone in a mud hut on an 89 acre piece of land given to her in the late 1960s by President Jomo Kenyatta in the semi-arid parts of Nyeri South District.\n\nNyaruai was born in 1917 and was brought up on a white settler's farm where her father worked as a herds boy.\n\nNyaruai was one of the first Kenyan women to join the Scouting movement. After a white settler noticed her generosity, she convinced Nyaruai to become a Scout. Nyaruai was 10 years old. Nyaruai met Lord Baden-Powell, the founder of Scouting and is expected to attend ceremonies at his graveside in 2007 commemorating 100 years of Scouting.\n\n"}
{"id": "33725779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33725779", "title": "Eugen Dobrogeanu", "text": "Eugen Dobrogeanu\n\nEugen Dobrogeanu (17 October 1913 – 18 February 1992) was a Romanian officer (colonel retd.), the first bibliographer of the Romanian criminology and active participant in Operation Autonomous.\n\nAfter finishing elementary school in 1925, Eugen Dobrogeanu attended the high school Gheorghe Sincai in Bucharest and acquired bachelor's degree in 1932. In the same year he was admitted to the gendarmerie officer school, which he graduated from in 1935. Subsequently he acted as an instructor at the non-commissioned gendarmerie officer school in Focşani, where he lectured on criminology and forensic science until 1940.\n\nAs a graduate of law high school – faculty of jurisprudence – and holder of the antedoctorate oral examination in economy policy, Eugen Dobrogeanu published numerous studies about scientific police, criminology and applied criminology. In his work \"The forensic science in the Romanian bibliography\" (\"The modern police\", Focsani 1940) he emphasised, among other things, the merits of professors Drs. Nicolae Minovici and Mina Minovici, whose activity, within the scope of the forensic medicine research in Bucharest, put the basis of the Romanian forensic jurisprudence.\n\nAt the beginning of 1941 Eugen Dobrogeanu was transferred to the supervisory office of the gendarmerie in Bucharest where he was appointed chief of the department for the pursuit of the Legionary Movement. In this function he conducted centralisation and systematisation of everyday information bulletins.\n\nBetween 1943–1944 major Eugen Dobrogeanu was directly involved in the Operation Autonomous by order of general Constantin Tobescu, as a member of the military guard in charge with the custody of three English officers: Alfred Gardyne de Chastelain, Ivor Porter and Silviu Meţianu, parachutists taken and held captive in Romania.\n\nIn spite of all dangers Eugen Dobrogeanu maintained amicable relations with the prisoners while he helped them and delivered to them information about everyday events. Finally, he helped the English officers even in the procurement of the information which was to help them escape. Unfortunately, the plan could not be brought to execution as Eugen Dobrogeanu was suddenly transferred to the East front to Odessa.\n\nBetween April, 1946 and March, 1948 Eugen Dobrogeanu worked as assistant chief commander of the gendarmerie officer school where he lectured on forensic science as well as methods of scientific police and fight against criminal economic activities. Afterwards he was recalled in the security of the capital city where he performed extensive work, not only by disclosure of the legionary organizations but also in the fight against the criminal economic activities.\n\nFrom September, 1948 to January, 1949 – after the dissolution of the gendarmerie – Eugen Dobrogeanu acted as a member of the Organizing committee of the Romanian militia. Then he was appointed as manager to the department of public security and maintenance of order, as well as head of the committee's office, and advanced to the rank of lieutenant-colonel.\n\nOn 31 March 1951 Eugen Dobrogeanu was arrested under the accusation of \"crime and intensive activity against the working class and revolutionary movement\". After nearly 5 years of investigation he was acquitted according to the court decision No. 114/1956, found not guilty and declared innocent, under abolition of all imposed punishments and actions.\n\nReleased from prison in 1956, Eugen Dobrogeanu worked first as a helper in a service transport company, then as an economist with the international trading agency \"Romtrans\" in Bucharest, from which post he went into retirement.\n\nAfter the Romanian Revolution of 1989 lieutenant-colonel Eugen Dobrogeanu was rehabilitated and was promoted to the rank of colonel retd. He died on 18 January 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56402151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56402151", "title": "Faisal bin Abdulrahman bin Muaammar", "text": "Faisal bin Abdulrahman bin Muaammar\n\nFaisal bin Abdulrahman bin Muaammar is the founding Secretary General of the King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz International Centre for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue (KAICIID, based in Vienna) and the King Abdulaziz Center for National Dialogue (KACND, based in Riyadh). He is also notable as Supervisor General of the King Abdulaziz Public Library (KAPL, based in Riyadh).\n\nFaisal bin Muaammar received his early education in Sadus, Saudi Arabia. After obtaining a Bachelor’s degree in Sociology from the University of Riyadh (now known as King Saud University), he joined the Saudi International Scholarship Program and was sponsored by the Saudi Arabian National Guard to attend graduate school in the US. He earned his Master’s degree in Management from Webster University in St. Louis in 1985.\n\nSince the mid-80s, Bin Muaammar has been associated with the fields of dialogue, culture and education in Saudi Arabia, pursuing the principles of coexistence by deepening knowledge and mutual understanding among diverse communities.\n\nBin Muaammar has served on the boards of a number of organizations whose mandate is to enhance education and inter-group understanding. Currently, he serves on the Boards of the King Abdul Aziz Foundation for Islamic Studies and Humanities (Morocco); the King Fahad National Library; the Administration Authority of the National Center for Documents and Archives; the Forum of Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies (United Arab Emirates); the World Scout Foundation (Switzerland), The King Abdulaziz Foundation for Research and Archives, The National Committee for Monitoring the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue Initiatives and the UNESCO Institute for Lifelong Learning.\n\nKAICIID is the world’s first intergovernmental organization whose mission is to build peace through dialogue among world religions. The Centre is supported by a unique two-tier governance structure that connects government representatives (the Council of Parties, comprising the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Spain, as well as the Holy See, as Founding Observer) with religious leaders (the Board of Directors) who represent faith-based institutions. Bin Muaammar was appointed Secretary General of KAICIID in 2012. His term was renewed in 2016.\n\nSimilarly, KACND, an independent Saudi Arabian organization of which Bin Muaammar is also Secretary General, works to enhance dialogue among Saudi citizens from different intra-religious and societal backgrounds.\n\nFaisal bin Abdulrahman bin Muaammar is also Supervisor General of the King Abdulaziz Public Library (KAPL, based in Riyadh), founded in 1987. The library mainly covers Arabic Islamic Heritage. In 2006, Bin Muaammar was behind the initiative to create the library's Arabic Union Catalog (AUC). In addition to having a branch in Morocco, a third branch of the King Abdulaziz Library was opened at Beijing University in the Chinese capital in 2017.\n\nAll three libraries develop collections and diversify knowledge resources, providing reader and researcher programs, in addition to hosting workshops, lectures, seminars and local and international symposiums.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2003 Bin Muaammar was the Vice Chair of the Executive Committee for the National Heritage and Culture Festival (the Janadriyah Festival).\n\nIn 1985, Bin Muaammar had served as General Manager of the Civilian Training Department of the Saudi Arabian National Guard, a role he left to work on the KAPL project under appointment of the Crown Prince Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. In 1996, he returned as the Undersecretary of the National Guard’s Educational and Cultural Affairs Department.\n\nIn 2003, he became Advisor to the Court of His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud.\n\nBin Muaammar also served as Vice Minister of Education in Saudi Arabia from 2009-2011. Today, he serves as Advisor to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques.\n"}
{"id": "16263046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16263046", "title": "Gang of Four (Harlem)", "text": "Gang of Four (Harlem)\n\nThe Gang of Four, also known as the Harlem Clubhouse, was an African-American political coalition from Harlem whose members later ascended to top political posts. It is named after the Gang of Four of China.\n\nThe four members were:\n\n\nThe son of Basil Paterson, David Paterson, became Governor of New York in 2008 following the resignation of Eliot Spitzer.\n"}
{"id": "20899686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20899686", "title": "Gary Spivey", "text": "Gary Spivey\n\nGary Spivey is a spiritual healer and spiritual teacher. He has made appearances on radio programs, TV shows, in live casino shows, and also conducts personal readings, seminars, workshops, and retreats.\n\nSpivey regularly performs on morning radio shows. Current stations include shows in New York, Los Angeles (KYSR-FM), Chicago, San Francisco (KYLD-FM), Las Vegas (KLUC-FM), San Diego (XHRM-FM), Sacramento (KSFM-FM), Washington DC, Minneapolis (KDWB-FM), Miami, Milwaukee, (WMYX-FM), Nashville, Atlanta, KQRC 98.9 The Rock out of Kansas City Missouri, performing on the Johnny Dare Morning Show, as well as in Fort Myers, FL (WXKB-FM) on the Big Mama and The WiLD Bunch Morning Show. In the 1990s, Spivey was a sometime regular on the syndicated radio program \"The Ron & Ron Show\" (Ron and Ron), as well as hosting his own call in show which was owned and produced by The Ron & Ron Radio Network and broadcast on WSUN-AM in Tampa, Florida.\n\nSpivey has appeared on shows such as \"Entertainment Tonight\", \"Hard Copy\", \"The Ricki Lake Show\", \"The Other Half\", \"Inside Edition\", \"Jeopardy!\", \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", and \"Jerry Springer\". He has also guest starred in A&E's \"Family Plots\" series and on World Championship Wrestling shows where he was scripted to be the mentor of Paul Orndorff. He is known for his unique hairstyle, composed of a dense, silver afro wig.\n\nGary Spivey's first book, co-authored with Dean Hymel was written in 2006 is titled \"Your Keys to Heaven – Secrets from God\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28376156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28376156", "title": "Georgina Lightning", "text": "Georgina Lightning\n\nGeorgina Lightning is a First Nations film director, screenwriter, and actress. Born in Edmonton, Alberta, she is an enrolled member of the Samson Cree Nation. She was raised off-reserve, near the Samson community in Edmonton, Alberta.\n\nIn 2007 she was featured in \"Filmmaker Magazine\" as one of 25 New Faces of Independent Film. In 2010 she was the recipient of the \"White House Project- Epic-Award for Emerging Artist\". She co-founded Tribal Alliance Productions, partnering with executive producer Audrey Martinez, as a means to create opportunities for Native American, First Nations, and other Indigenous filmmakers.\n\nIn 2008 Lightning directed, wrote, and starred in the supernatural thriller film \"Older Than America\", becoming the first North American Indigenous Woman to direct a major feature film. The film won several major awards at film festivals. She based the film on her father's experience with the Canadian Indian residential school system and other personal family stories.\n\nLightning is an outspoken advocate for First Nations and Native American causes, working towards a greater appreciation and awareness of the intrinsic value of North American Indigenous cultures to not only Indigenous people themselves, but to society in general. Her three children are either currently or previously working actors. They are Crystle Lightning, Cody Lightning, and William Lightning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40591611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40591611", "title": "Gertruda Sekaninová-Čakrtová", "text": "Gertruda Sekaninová-Čakrtová\n\nGertruda Sekaninová-Čakrtová, born Stiassny (May 21, 1908 - December 29, 1986) was a Czech and Czechoslovak lawyer, politician and diplomat of Jewish origin, later also a dissident and signatory of the Charter 77. She is most renowned for being one of the four deputies of the who voted against the agreement on the temporary stay of Soviet troops in Czechoslovakia in the fall of 1968, following the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.\n\nShe was born in 1908 in Budapest (then Austro-Hungarian Empire), as Gertruda Stiassny, to a wealthy Jewish family. She was the eldest of four children. Her parents, Richard and Alžběta Stiassny, moved to Hungary from Bohemia to manage family textile manufacture. Her father died when she was 12 years old. One of her brothers was Josef \"Pepek\" Stiassny (Joseph \"Joe\" Stiassny) (1916-1944), who later became known as a guardian and tutor of boys in the Theresienstadt Ghetto, where he contributed to the magazine Vedem. In 1910, the family moved back to Havlíčkův (then German) Brod, where Gertrude studied and graduated from gymnasium (1922–27). She continued her studies at the Law Faculty of Charles University in Prague. During her studies she began collaborating with leftist students and worked in various left-wing organizations (Society for the Economic and Social Rapprochement with the USSR, Kostufra, Syndicate of Working Women Intelligence etc.). In 1932, she joined the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. In the same year she graduated and began working as a clerk in the law office of Dr. Ivan Sekanina, whom she married in 1935. In 1938, she passed the bar exam and began practicing law. As an advocate, she took part in the international processes with representatives of the left-wing.\n\nIvan Sekanina was known, among other things, as an advocate of Ernst Torgler and Georgi Dimitrov, accused of igniting the German Reichstag, which earned him the hatred of Nazis. On 16 March 1939, the day after Germans started the occupation of Czechoslovakia, Ivan Sekanina was arrested. He was executed in Sachsenhausen on 21 May 1940, on the day of 32nd birthday of his wife.\n\nAfter the arrest of her husband, she continued to practice law. She was forced to quit in 1940, due to the enhanced application of the Nuremberg Laws in the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. Then she worked as a nurse in children's shelters. In October 1942, she was transported to the Theresienstadt Ghetto. She worked as a governess of teenaged Geltungsjude girls.\n\nIn 1944, she was deported to Auschwitz, where she was selected for forced labor in Kurzbach (a branch of the Gross-Rosen concentration camp). On 21 January 1945, the camp was evacuated due to the approaching Red Army. She left the camp in a death march heading toward the concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen. She managed to escape, along with several other prisoners. She was liberated by the U.S. Army in Regis-Breitingen after several months of hiding as forced laborer in Saxony. Most of her extended family perished during the Holocaust.\n\nAfter the war, she worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and as a permanent delegate of Czechoslovakia to the United Nations. The 8th Congress of the Communist Party selected her as a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (ÚV KSČ). She worked in the Central Committee until 1949. After returning from the USA in 1949, she became the First Deputy of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vladimír Clementis. She married a second time in 1948, this time to Kazimír Čakrt, who worked at the Ministry of Finance. They had one son, Michal Čakrt (born in 1948).\n\nSekaninová-Čakrtová escaped the party purges, although according to historians she exactly fell into the category of hidden class enemies, classified by the Soviet advisors (she was Jewish, of bourgeois origin, well educated and had close personal connections to persons prosecuted in political processes). It is possible that friendship with many officials of the regime whom she had known from the pre-war period helped her. In 2013, it became known that at that time she had to give up the property inherited from her parents, under the threat of persecutions. In 1957, she and her husband were investigated for alleged espionage and financial fraud committed by a cousin of her husband, Jan Čakrt. These fabricated charges resulted in suicide of her husband. According to another version, Kazimír Čakrt was arrested at the request of the Finance Minister , who believed that Čakrt helped Austrian delegation during the negotiations about financial and legal settlement between Czechoslovakia and Austria after the war. After the suicide of her husband, Sekaninová-Čakrtová was removed from office and later worked at the Ministry of Education as head of the newly established legislative and administrative department.\nAs a former concentration camp inmate, she testified in the 1963 process with a co-author of the Nuremberg Laws, Hans Globke.\n\nIn the , she returned to politics as a member of the National Assembly. She supported the draft bill excluding statute of limitations for war crimes committed during the World War II. During the Prague Spring, she supported the abolition of censorship.\n\nFrom 1968 to 1969, she served as Vice-President of the Czechoslovak Union of Women.\n\nIn April 1968, she was awarded the Order of the Republic.\n\nDuring 1968, Sekaninová-Čakrtová gradually started to grow disillusioned with the communist ideology and politics. After the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in August 1968, she voted as one of the four members of the National Assembly against the agreement on the temporary stay of Soviet troops in Czechoslovakia and suggested their complete withdrawal from Czechoslovak territory (the other deputies were František Kriegel, František Vodsloň and Božena Fuková). Because of these attitudes, she was, along with other rebelling members of the National Assembly, deprived of their mandate and expelled from the Communist Party.\n\nShe spent the rest of her life working in dissent. She signed Charter 77, was involved in the Committee for the Defense of the Unjustly Persecuted and supported the persecuted musicians from the band The Plastic People of the Universe. For her attitude she was harassed by State Security (StB). She was labelled by the State Security as \"... a person with hostility directed against the Soviet Union ... she does not accept the leadership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and with her conduct she attempts to undermine the positive results of internal and foreign policy of Czechoslovakia.\"\n\nSekaninová-Čakrtová spent her later years in Polná near Jihlava. She died in 1986 in Jihlava, due to injury. Shortly before her death, the StB noted: \"\"Her attitudes towards real socialism remain hostile ...\".\"\n"}
{"id": "28221650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28221650", "title": "Grey Stafford", "text": "Grey Stafford\n\nDr. Grey Stafford is an animal trainer, zoologist, educator, and currently the Director of Conservation at the Wildlife World Zoo and Aquarium in Phoenix, AZ. He is also a spokesperson for the zoo and aquarium industry and has been featured on nationally televised programs.\n\nGrey is also the author of \"Zoomility: Keeper Tales of Training with Positive Reinforcement\". His mentor, Jack Hanna, wrote the book's foreword.\n\nGrey was raised in Cleveland, Ohio and began his animal training career as a marine mammal trainer at SeaWorld of Ohio under the auspices of acclaimed animal trainers Thad Lacinak and Ted Turner.\n\nHe holds a PhD granted by the Department of Biological Sciences at Kent State University.\n\nGrey serves as the Director of Conservation at the Wildlife World Zoo and Aquarium in Phoenix and appears regularly as a guest animal expert on \"Fox 10 Arizona Morning,\" \"Good Morning Arizona\" and \"Your Life A to Z\". He is a zoo spokesperson and has helped feature animals on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show, Late Show with David Letterman, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Larry King Live, Martha Stewart, Rosie O'Donnell, Good Morning America\" and \"Weekend Extra\". He has also been featured on the Sci Fi Channel.\n\nStafford also serves on the editorial advisory board for the International Marine Animal Trainers Association (IMATA), and on an advisory committee for the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA).\n\nGrey serves as an expert commentator regarding captive animal issues for national and international media outlets. On July 30, 2010 he was interviewed by CNN HLN concerning the fatal grizzly bear attacks in Montana.\n\nIn 2013, he was selected along with his colleague William Hurley IV to serve as a guest panelist for a critique of the controversial docudrama \"Blackfish\" (film) for CNN.\n\n"}
{"id": "1072764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1072764", "title": "Heber C. Kimball", "text": "Heber C. Kimball\n\nHeber Chase Kimball (June 14, 1801 – June 22, 1868) was a leader in the early Latter Day Saint movement. He served as one of the original twelve apostles in the early Church of the Latter Day Saints, and as first counselor to Brigham Young in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) for more than two decades, from 1847 until his death.\n\nAgreeing to take on plural marriage, then part of church doctrine, Kimball eventually married forty-three women, but some relationships were for caretaking. He had a total of sixty-six children by seventeen of his wives.\n\nHeber Chase Kimball was born in Sheldon, Franklin County, Vermont in 1801. He was a descendant of the Kimball immigrants to Massachusetts from England in 1634. He was named after a judge Heber Chase, who had helped the family in their efforts to settle in the area. Due to the embargo on trade with Britain preceding the War of 1812, his father lost his investments and the family moved into western New York. They settled in West Bloomfield, New York, Ontario County, around 1811.\n\nKimball left school at age 14, trained as a blacksmith and potter, and moved with his brother about 1820 to Mendon, Monroe County, New York. There he married his first wife, Vilate Murray, in 1822.\n\nAfter purchasing his brother's pottery business, for the next 10 years, he carried out his trades. He acquired five and a half acres (22,000 m²) of land, built a house and a barn, and planted an orchard.\n\nIn 1823, Kimball received the three craft degrees of Freemasonry in the lodge at Victor Flats, Ontario County, New York. In 1824, he sent a petition to the chapter at Canandaigua, New York, to receive the York Rite degrees of Royal Arch Masonry. His petition was accepted, although, as he reported, Anti-Masons had burned down the chapter building in Canandaigua. Many years later, Kimball reminisced of his New York masonic experiences and stated: \"I wish that all men were masons and would live up to their profession, then the world would be in a much better state than it is now.\"\n\nWhen the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints established itself in Nauvoo, Illinois, Kimball was one of the original petitioners to establish a Freemasonry lodge there. He served as Nauvoo Lodge U.D.'s first Junior Deacon. He remained active in Freemasonry throughout his stay in Nauvoo, but was not active once he moved to Utah Territory. There was no lodge in Utah in his lifetime that would admit Mormons.\n\nSeveral of Kimball's close family members died of tuberculosis within a few years: his mother in February 1824, his father in the spring of 1826, followed by his brother Charles C. and his brother's wife shortly thereafter.\n\nHis son William Henry was born in Mendon, April 10, 1826; he was Kimball's first child to survive infancy. His daughter Helen Mar was born August 22, 1828. She was the only daughter to survive.\n\nKimball claims to have witnessed a miraculous event on September 22, 1827. According to his autobiography, he subsequently learned that it \"took place the same evening that Joseph Smith received the records of the Book of Mormon from the Angel Moroni.\" He had seen \"a white smoke\" arising on the horizon, growing \"clear and transparent of a bluish cast\" to reveal an army on the move \"in platoons\":\n\nWe could see distinctly the muskets, bayonets, and knapsacks of the men, who wore caps and feathers like those used by the American soldiers in the last war with Britain; also their officers with their swords and equipage, and heard the clashing and jingling of their instruments of war and could discover the form and features of the men. The most profound order existed throughout the entire army, when the foremost man stepped, every man stepped at the same time: I could hear the step. When the front rank reached the Western horizon a battle ensued, as we could distinctly hear the report of the arms and the rush. No man could judge of my feelings when I beheld that army of men, as plainly as I ever saw armies of men in the flesh it seemed as though every hair of my head was alive. This scenery was gazed upon for hours, until it began to disappear.\n\nWhile in New York, Kimball joined the local Baptist Church and was eventually baptized. Three weeks later, three elders from the Church of Christ, the original name of the Latter Day Saint church founded by Joseph Smith, visited the house of his friend, Phinehas Young. Kimball visited the house at this time and was impressed with church teachings. He also witnessed the speaking of tongues and the interpretation of tongues during this visit. He claims to have been visited by the power of God.\n\nDuring this time, Kimball said that he and several of the Young family saw a vision opened of the \"gathering of the Saints to Zion.\" He was inspired to travel to Pennsylvania where he could visit at length with the elders, and was accompanied by some of the Youngs. They stayed six days with the elders and witnessed more miracles, such as speaking in tongues and the interpretation of tongues.\n\nOn April 16, 1832 Kimball was baptized by Alpheus Gifford. After the confirmation, the elder offered to ordain Kimball to the priesthood, but Kimball refused it as he felt he was unready. Thirty more people were baptized in Mendon and formed a branch of the church there.\n\nAbout this time, people began calling Kimball \"crazy,\" although he claims he was \"clothed in the right mind.\" He claims the scriptures unfolded for him. Local clergy and members of other faiths soon became antagonistic towards the small Latter-day Saint branch and its members. Kimball had several people make executions on his property to recall considerable debts, which he was nevertheless able to pay off in full.\n\nShortly after his baptism, Kimball was ordained an elder by Joseph Young. He began proselyting in the neighboring areas with Joseph and Brigham Young. This part of New York became known as the \"burnt over district\" because of the numerous religious sects that sprang up during the 19th century. The Youngs baptized many people and built up branches of the church. Kimball said that one day Ezra Landon baptized some 20 people but wanted him to confirm them. He did so, and immediately they began speaking in tongues and interpreting them.\n\nIn 1833, Kimball relocated his family to church headquarters in Kirtland, Ohio. He marched with Zion's Camp in 1834. From 1832 until 1840, Kimball served eight missions for the Church, requiring him to be apart from his family for months at a time.\n\nOn February 14, 1835, Kimball was ordained a member of The Quorum of Twelve Apostles of the Church of the Latter Day Saints (renamed the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in 1838). He was one of the original twelve members of the Quorum, being 4th in seniority.\n\nJoseph Smith called Kimball to lead a group of missionaries to England in 1837. The mission began work in Preston, Lancashire, England. After the initial baptisms in Preston, the missionaries expanded their efforts to the Ribble Valley. By the time Kimball departed for the United States in 1838, about 1,500 people had been baptized.\n\nKimball returned with a small party to make travel arrangements for the groups and discovered the Latter Day Saints were undergoing considerable strife and pressure in the state of Missouri.\n\nWhile Smith was imprisoned in the Liberty Jail, Brigham Young (now ranking leader of the Quorum) and Kimball organized the removal of approximately 12,000 Latter Day Saint refugees across the border into Illinois. There the church founded the city of Nauvoo and built a temple.\n\nIn September 1839, Kimball left Nauvoo for another mission to England. He did not reach Indiana until October. He made stops at Kirtland to encourage the remaining Saints there to move to Nauvoo and other places and had a long layover in New York City. He sailed from New York on December 19, reaching Liverpool on April 6. Kimball spent 1840 and some of 1841 in England, initially in the area in and around Preston, and later working as a missionary in London. The missionaries began organizing groups of British converts to travel to the United States, beginning in 1840, and to join the main body of the church.\n\nAfter Smith was killed in 1844, succession to the leadership of the church was a divisive issue. Young led the majority of church members across the state line into Iowa and eventually to the Salt Lake Valley. Kimball stood next in leadership in the Quorum to Young.\n\nKimball became a member of the new First Presidency in 1847. Kimball led one of three large companies to the Salt Lake Valley in the summer of 1848.\n\nHe established his families in Utah Territory (he had three wives) and supported them by farming, ranching, milling at the Heber C. Kimball Gristmill and freighting, in addition to church responsibilities.\n\nWhile in the First Presidency, Kimball received special assignments to supervise the ongoing British Mission and to conduct temple ordinances. He also worked to encourage economic independence for Utah. He had one slave, Green Flake, who was given to the church for tithing, whom he used as his personal driver.\n\nWhen the provisional government of the State of Deseret was organized in spring 1849, Kimball was appointed the chief justice and lieutenant governor of the proposed state.\n\nKimball served in the Utah Territorial Legislature in the upper house (the Territorial Council) from 1851 until 1858. He was president of the Council during the session beginning in March 1851, but later served as a regular member of the Council.\n\nOne night at family prayers, Kimball said that \"the angel Moroni had visited him the night before and informed him that his work on this earth was finished, and he would soon be taken.\" Kimball died the following day on June 22, 1868, at age 67, in Salt Lake City, Utah Territory, from the effects of a carriage accident. He was buried in the Kimball-Whitney Cemetery (40.772949, -111.889755), located on the south slope of what's now known as Capitol Hill, an area then called \"Heber's Bench\" after him.\n\nKimball received private instruction from Joseph Smith on plural marriage (polygamy). Initially reluctant, Kimball accepted the responsibility and married a second wife, Sarah Noon. His first wife, Vilate Murray Kimball, accepted plural marriage and welcomed the additional wives as sisters. Heber and Vilate agreed and gave their 14-year-old daughter Helen Marr as a plural wife of Joseph Smith. Kimball considered the marrying of multiple wives an expression of his faith in and obedience to God: \"I have noticed that a man who has but one wife, and is inclined to that doctrine, soon begins to wither and dry up, while a man who goes into plurality [of wives] looks fresh, young, and sprightly. Why is this? Because God loves that man, and because he honors His work and word.\"\n\nKimball eventually married a total of forty-three women, although it is stated that many of these marriages were merely caretaking arrangements lacking physical intimacy. Kimball had sixty-six children by seventeen of his wives.\n\nKimball was also married to, but did not have children with;\nKimball has a number of noteworthy descendants, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28647850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28647850", "title": "Ian Mantle", "text": "Ian Mantle\n\nIan Mantle (1920-2010) was a motor vehicle engineer and motor trade entrepreneur who became an important post war influence in the development of touring caravans. He was also a notable rally driver of the Berkeley Sports Car made by Berkeley Cars, whose fibre glass frame prospered in races during the 1950s. During the 1960s Mantle specialised in caravan rallying winning the Ken Wharton Memorial Five Nations championship.\n\nIan Mantle was born in Biggleswade in 1920 the son of a local businessman who had started a motor vehicle company.He was educated at Bedford Modern School before joining the automobile engineering firm Caffyns in Brighton, East Sussex.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Second World War Mantle served with the Royal Air Force employed as an engineer tasked with solving logistical problems of keeping vehicles and armaments serviceable during the difficult campaigns of Italy and North Africa. On demobilization in 1945, he took over the family business in Biggleswade.\n\nMantle spent the remainder of the 1940s and the 1950s establishing the Mantle Group to include dealerships for cars, caravans and mobile home parks in the Home Counties. A man prepared to innovate he worked with Sam Alper to improve and develop touring caravans making them more stable and easier to control through chassis, suspension and wheel design\n\nIn partnership with Sprite Caravans he established a world towing endurance record at Monza in Italy. This involved a Ford Zodiac towing a Sprite caravan around the aerodrome at Monza for 24 hours at an average speed of 70 mph. Mantle enjoyed rallying caravans and was good enough to win the Caravan Road Rally four times during the 1970s.\nIn the Mid 50’s Mantle was part of a team of engineers led by Lawrie Bond of Bond Cars notoriety who developed the Berkeley, a small sporting vehicle powered by an air-cooled motorcycle engine. Berkeley Cars were manufactured at the Berkeley Coachworks owned by Charles Panter in Biggleswade. The fibreglass structure proved an advantage and for some years the Berkeley won some important races including one at Goodwood in September 1956 where it was driven by Stirling Moss. Mantle was behind the wheel in the Netherlands Tulip Rally when the Berkeley engine failed whilst he was in the lead. Mantle’s association with Berkeley lasted until the firm was liquidated in 1960.\n\nMantle was a good enough rally driver to win a number of important races including the British Rallycross Driving Association Flather Star Autotest Championship in 1956. Autotesting involves a series of tests, generally around traffic cones, to measure precision driving skills and Mantle excelled captaining the England team in the Ken Wharton Memorial Five Nations championship on BBC Grandstand during the 1960s.\n\nMantle retired in 1990 and was succeeded by his son John Mantle as managing director of the Mantle Group. Mantle served as a magistrate in Biggleswade and from 1986 to 1991 he was chairman of the organising committee of the Caravan and Camping Exhibition at Earls Court.\n\nThe Ian Mantle Trophy is contested each year at the Sprite/Sterling National Autotest Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "57709445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57709445", "title": "Isabel Seymour", "text": "Isabel Seymour\n\nIsabel Marion Seymour (born 1882) was a UK suffragette who was employed by the Women's Social and Political Union. She undertook speaking tours in Europe. She later became a Councillor.\n\nSeymour was born in 1882 in Middlesex. Her parents were Philip and Mary Seymour and she became a fluent speaker in both English and German. She was introduced to the Women's Social and Political Union by her friends Frederick and Emmeline Pethick Lawrence. She was employed by the WSPU and was involved in administering the accommodation and bail that was required by WSPU members. She was a confident speaker in English and German and she went on a speaking tour in Germany and Russia on behalf of the WSPU. In 1909, she was honoured with an invitation to Eagle House in Somerset. This was the home of Colonel Linley and Emily Blathwayt. They supported their daughter Mary Blathwayt and the other WSPU members by providing accommodation for recovering suffragette's. In addition Emily had constructed an arboretum of trees where each new tree was planted by a suffragette. The Blathwayts would also create a plaque and photographs would be taken to record the planting. Seymour planted a holly bush on 24 October 1909.\n\nShe later moved to Canada for eight years but she returned to the UK where she became a county councillor for Hampshire.\n"}
{"id": "49979117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49979117", "title": "James Charles Crumbaugh", "text": "James Charles Crumbaugh\n\nJames Charles Crumbaugh (1912-2001) was an American psychologist and parapsychologist.\n\nCrumbaugh was born in Terrell, Texas. He became interested in parapsychology starting in 1938 which led to a Master's thesis. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Texas in 1953. \n\nCrumbaugh who worked with the Parapsychology Foundation, carried out experiments into extrasensory perception. However, his results were negative. After thousands of card runs he failed to duplicate the results of Joseph Banks Rhine.\n\n"}
{"id": "274714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274714", "title": "James McKeen Cattell", "text": "James McKeen Cattell\n\nJames McKeen Cattell (May 25, 1860 – January 20, 1944), American psychologist, was the first professor of psychology in the United States, teaching at the University of Pennsylvania, and long-time editor and publisher of scientific journals and publications, most notably the journal \"Science\". He also served on the board of trustees for Science Service, now known as Society for Science & the Public (or SSP), from 1921–1944.\n\nAt the beginning of his career, many scientists regarded psychology at best a minor field of study, or at worst a pseudoscience such as phrenology. Perhaps more than any of his contemporaries, Cattell helped establish psychology as a legitimate science, worthy of study at the highest levels of the academy. At the time of his death, \"The New York Times\" hailed him as \"the dean of American science.\" Yet Cattell may be best remembered for his uncompromising opposition to American involvement in World War I. His public opposition to the draft led to his dismissal from his position at Columbia University, a move that later led many American universities to establish tenure as a means of protecting unpopular beliefs.\n\nBorn in Easton, Pennsylvania in 1860, Cattell grew up the eldest child of a wealthy and prominent family. His father, William Cassady Cattell, a Presbyterian minister, became president of Lafayette College in Easton shortly after James' birth. William Cattell could easily provide for his children, as he had married Elizabeth \"Lizzie\" McKeen in 1859; together they shared Lizzie's substantial inheritance. To this picture of the family's success one could add political power as well, as James' uncle Alexander Gilmore Cattell represented New Jersey in the United States Senate.\n\nCattell entered Lafayette College in 1876 at the age of sixteen, and graduated in four years with the highest honors. In 1883 the faculty at Lafayette awarded him an M.A., again with highest honors. Despite his later renown as a scientist, he spent most of his time devouring English literature, although he showed a remarkable gift for mathematics as well. Cattell said Francis Andrew March, a philologist, was a great influence during his time at Lafayette.\n\nCattell did not find his calling until after he arrived in Germany for graduate studies, where he met Wilhelm Wundt at the University of Leipzig. He also studied under Hermann Lotze at the University of Göttingen, and an essay on Lotze won him a fellowship at Johns Hopkins University, where he left Germany to study in October 1882. The fellowship was not renewed, and he returned to Leipzig the next year as Wundt's assistant.\n\nThe partnership between Wundt and Cattell proved highly productive, as the two helped to establish the formal study of intelligence. Under Wundt, Cattell became the first American to publish a dissertation in the field of psychology. The title of his German dissertation was \"Psychometrische Untersuchungen\" (\"Psychometric Investigation\"). The dissertation was accepted by the University of Leipzig in 1886. More controversially, Cattell tried to explore the interiors of his own mind through the consumption of the then-legal drug hashish. Under the influence of this drug, Cattell once compared the whistling of a schoolboy to a symphony orchestra. While recreational drug use was not uncommon among early psychologists, including Freud, Cattell's experimentation with hashish reflected a willingness to go against conventional opinion and morality.\n\nThe main street in the College Hill Neighborhood of Easton, Pennsylvania, home to Lafayette College, is named after Cattell.\n\nAfter completing his Ph.D. with Wundt in Germany in 1886, Cattell took up a lecturing post at the University of Cambridge in England, and became a 'Fellow Commoner' of St John's College, Cambridge. He made occasional visits to America where he gave lectures at Bryn Mawr and the University of Pennsylvania. In 1889 he returned to the United States to take up the post of Professor of Psychology in Pennsylvania, and in 1891 moved to Columbia University where he became Department Head of Psychology, Anthropology, and Philosophy; He became President of the American Psychological Association in 1895.\n\nFrom the beginning of his career, Cattell worked hard to establish psychology as a field as worthy of study as any of the \"hard\" physical sciences, such as chemistry or physics. Indeed, he believed that further investigation would reveal that the intellect itself could be parsed into standard units of measurements. He also brought the methods of Wilhelm Wundt and Francis Galton back to the United States, establishing the mental testing efforts in the U.S.\n\nIn 1917, Cattell and English professor Henry Wadsworth Longfellow Dana (grandson of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and Richard Henry Dana Jr.) were fired from Columbia University for opposing the United States’ conscription policy during World War I. Years later he sued the university and won an annuity. In 1921, he used the money that he had gained from the settlement in order to start The Psychological Corporation to foster his interest in the field of applied psychology. Because he was never able to really explain how psychologists can apply their work, the organization failed until taken over by other psychologists who had experience in applied psychology. Towards the end of his life, Cattell still edited and published his journals. To help himself in the process, he created the Science Press Printing Company in order to produce his journals. He continued his work on the journals until his death in 1944 in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.\n\nLike many eminent scientists and scholars of the time, Cattell's thought was influenced by belief in eugenics, defined as the \"applied science or the bio-social movement which advocates the use of practices aimed at improving the genetic composition of a population, usually referring to human populations.\" Cattell's belief in eugenics was heavily influenced by the research of Charles Darwin, whose theory of evolution motivated Cattell’s emphasis on studying “the psychology of individual differences”.\n\nIn connection with his eugencist beliefs, Cattell's own research found that men of science were likely to have fathers who were clergymen or professors. Incidentally, Cattell's father was both.\n\nCattell believed that he had “inherited ability\", but he also credited the influence of his environment, saying \"it was my fortune to find a birthplace in the sun. A germplasm fairly well compounded [good genes] met circumstances to which it was unusually fit to react”. Cattell’s belief in eugenics even motivated him to offer his own children monetary gifts of $1,000 if they married the offspring of a university professor or academic professional.\n\nCattell’s research on individual differences played a significant role in introducing and emphasizing the experimental technique and importance of methodology in experimentation in America. Regarding the beginnings of his mental tests, in Leipzig, Cattell independently began to measure “simple mental processes” Between 1883 and 1886, Cattell published nine articles discussing human reaction time rates and individual differences. As professor at the University of Pennsylvania, Cattell administered a battery of ten tests to student volunteers, and for the first time introduced the term “mental tests” as a general term for his set of tests which included measures of sensation, using weights to determine just-noticeable differences, reaction time, human memory span, and rate of movement. When Cattell moved to Columbia University, the battery of tests became compulsory for all freshmen. Cattell believed that his mental tests were measuring intelligence; however, in 1901 Clark Wissler, a student of Cattell, demonstrated that there was no statistical relationship between scores on Cattell's tests and academic performance. The tests were finally rendered irrelevant with the development of Alfred Binet’s intelligence measurements.\n\nCattell was well known for his involvement in creating and editing scientific journals. He was so involved in owning and publishing journals, that his research productivity declined. He founded the journal \"Psychological Review\" in 1894 along with James Mark Baldwin. He also acquired the journal \"Science\" and, within five years, made it the official publication of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 1895-1900. In 1900, he purchased \"Popular Science Monthly\" from D. Appleton & Company. In 1915, the title was purchased from him and became \"Popular Science\". He, in turn, founded and edited \"The Scientific Monthly\", which went to the subscribers of the old \"Popular Science Monthly\" as a substitute.\n\nCattell was the editor of \"Science\" for nearly 50 years. During that time, he did much to promote psychology as a science by seeing to it that empirical studies in psychology were prominently featured in the journal. Regarding his impact on the development of psychology as a science, Ludy T. Benjamin wrote of Cattell's editorship “there is no denying that it significantly enhanced psychology’s visibility and status among the older sciences.”\n\nCattell was skeptical of paranormal claims and spiritualism. He had dismissed the medium Leonora Piper as a fraud. He was involved in a debate over Piper with the psychologist William James in the \"Science\" journal. He took issue with James's support for psychical research. In a letter to James he wrote that the \"Society for Psychical Research is doing much to injure psychology\".\n\nHe married Josephine Owen, the daughter of an English merchant, in 1888. Their seven children got their pre-college educations at home with their parents as instructors. The whole family shared in Cattell's editorial work. One daughter, Psyche Cattell (b. 1893) followed in her father's footsteps, established a small child psychology practice in Lancaster, Pennsylvania and developed tests to assess the intelligence of infants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1036140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036140", "title": "Joey DiPaolo", "text": "Joey DiPaolo\n\nJoey DiPaolo (born September 5, 1979) is an American AIDS activist who is HIV positive.\n\nDiPaolo contracted HIV during a heart surgery in 1984. He required a blood transfusion, and the blood given to him came from an HIV-infected donor. DiPaolo had been diagnosed with ASD, a type of heart disease, and surgery was needed to save his life.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1988, DiPaolo went through several episodes of sickness; although none of them were related to his heart. DiPaolo spent many days and nights suffering from different kinds of symptoms during that period.\n\nIn 1988, DiPaolo was diagnosed with HIV. At the time, doctors gave him only one year to live. Doctors told the DiPaolo family that it would be best for them to hide his condition.\n\nDiPaolo, nevertheless, became a very active boy in school with the help of medicines, and he made friendships. He experienced a health improvement in 1989, and seemed to live the normal life that other children led.\n\nIn 1990, DiPaolo once again faced death: He became so ill early during that year that, at one point, doctors gave him only two days to live. He recovered, and later on, he was able to attend an AIDS funds gala, where he met NFL football player Lawrence Taylor. Taylor autographed a ball for DiPaolo, and the two had a photo taken together. DiPaolo had decided to uncover his secret about being HIV positive.\n\nDiPaolo could not possibly imagine what kinds of problems the photo would bring him when it was published by a newspaper the next day: He was met with disdain by many of his schoolmates and their parents. Parents protested because they did not want DiPaolo to attend school with their children, and family friends turned their backs on the DiPaolo family, on the belief that by befriending the DiPaolo's, they had put their own lives at risk. Eventually, many of those that initially abandoned the family returned to be friends with the DiPaolos.\n\nDiPaolo faced crowds of protesters in front of his school for a period after he voluntarily took the step of disclosing his disease. A long, legal battle ensued between the DiPaolo family and parents of children of the school that DiPaolo went to. The parents were afraid that their kids could catch AIDS by being in contact with Joey, and they wanted Joey out of the school. At one point, Joey's father planned to move to New Jersey, where, he figured, Joey would be accepted to a new school.\n\nEventually, a New York court decided that DiPaolo would stay in the educational center he attended.\n\nThe DiPaolo case made headlines internationally, and it was covered by different types of media. In 1992, HBO aired the \"\" special \"Blood Brothers: The Joey DiPaolo Story\".\n\nLater on, DiPaolo won a lawsuit against the center from which the blood with which he was contaminated came. \n\nDiPaolo is an AIDS activist who meets and talks with many other AIDS patients yearly. In 2000 he founded Camp TLC (Together Living a Challenge) for youngsters who cannot attend regular summer camps because of AIDS.\n\nDiPaolo resides in Staten Island, with his wife Lauren and daughter Joey Jayde, and operates DiPaolo's Barber Shop in Tottenville.\n\n"}
{"id": "22912418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22912418", "title": "Josef Kollmer", "text": "Josef Kollmer\n\nJosef Kollmer (26 February 1901 – 28 January 1948) was a German war criminal, SS-\"Obersturmführer\" at Auschwitz. He was prosecuted at the Auschwitz Trial.\n\nBorn in Händlern, Bavaria, Kollmer was a farmer by trade. He became a member of the SS on January 1, 1935 after having previously spent several years in the German police force. He joined the Nazi party in May 1937. In October 1941 he was drafted into the Waffen-SS and was assigned to Auschwitz, where he commanded various guard companies until October 1943. He then temporarily transferred to Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp, but returned to Auschwitz in May 1944. Initially he commanded the guard company at Auschwitz main camp, then later the one at Monowitz concentration camp from August to October 1944. During his time at Auschwitz, Kollmer participated in the extermination of Jews in the Birkenau gas chambers, and carried out executions against the shooting wall between blocks 10 and 11 and at the Buna factory.\n\nKollmer was tried by the Supreme National Tribunal at the Auschwitz Trial in Kraków and was sentenced to death. His sentence was carried out by hanging in Montelupich Prison, Kraków.\n\n"}
{"id": "19101529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19101529", "title": "Kam Nai-wai", "text": "Kam Nai-wai\n\nKam Nai-wai MH (; born 1960, Hong Kong) is a founding member of the Democratic Party, and a member of Central and Western District Council. He is also a former member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (Geographical constituency, Hong Kong Island). His profession is as a social worker and he is a director of an IT company.\n\nKam served on the former Urban Council and district councils from 1995.\n\nIn 2007, Kam planned to participate in Hong Kong Island by-election, 2007 after the former chairman of DAB, Ma Lik, died of colon cancer. He later withdrew from the election process, denying that it was under pressure from fellow democrats who feared splitting the vote with Anson Chan. He won praise for his support for victims of the Lehman minibonds saga in 2008.\n\nIn the 2008 Hong Kong legislative election he won the Hong Kong Island geographical constituency seat for the Democratic Party.\n\nIn June 2010, he voted with the party in favour of the government’s 2012 constitutional reform package, which included the late amendment by the Democratic Party – accepted by the Beijing government – to hold a popular vote for five new District Council functional constituencies.\n\nKam is married to Candy.\n\n"}
{"id": "29857619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29857619", "title": "Karenni Army", "text": "Karenni Army\n\nThe Karenni Army (; abbreviated KA, KnA or KiA) is the armed wing of the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP), and operates in eastern Kayah State (also known as Karenni State), Myanmar (Burma).\n\nOn 7 March 2012, the government of Myanmar signed a ceasefire agreement with the KNPP, in the presence of international observers from the UN High Commission for Refugees, British Council and the American embassy. A similar ceasefire deal was signed in 1995, but it was dissolved within three months.\n\nThe British government recognised and guaranteed the independence of the Karenni States in a treaty with the Burmese King Mindon Min in 1875, by which both parties recognised the area as belonging to neither to the Konbaung Dynasty (Kingdom of Burma) nor to the British Empire. Consequently, the Karenni States were never fully incorporated into British Burma. The Karenni States were recognised as tributary to British Burma in 1892, when their rulers agreed to accept a stipend from the British government.\n\nThe Constitution of the Union of Burma in 1947 proclaimed that the three Karenni States be united into a single constituent state of the union, called Karenni State. It also gave the possibility of secession from the union after 10 years if the state's leaders were not satisfied with the central government. In August 1948, the Karenni leader U Bee Htu Re was assassinated by a pro-central government militia for his opposition to the inclusion of the Karenni States in the Union of Burma.\n\nSince 1957, the Karenni Army has been fighting government forces in an attempt to create an independent Karenni state, apart from a brief ceasefire in 1995. The KNPP have also fought left-wing groups such as the Kayan New Land Party (KNLP), and the Karenni National People's Liberation Front (KNPLF), both of which are now allied with the Tatmadaw (Myanmar Armed Forces). The group has been accused of using child soldiers, a claim that they have not denied, saying that the children had volunteered willingly, because their parents had been killed during fighting between the KA and government soldiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "333155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333155", "title": "Lewis Black", "text": "Lewis Black\n\nLewis Niles Black (born August 30, 1948) is an American stand-up comedian, author, playwright, social critic and actor. He is best known for his angry demeanour and belligerent comedic style, in which he often simulates having a mental breakdown. His comedy routines often escalate into angry rants about history, politics, religion, or any other cultural trends. He hosted the Comedy Central series \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\" and makes regular appearances on \"The Daily Show with Trevor Noah\" delivering his \"Back in Black\" commentary segment, which he has been doing since \"The Daily Show\" was hosted by Craig Kilborn.\n\nWhen not on the road performing, Black resides in Manhattan, but also maintains a residence in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. He is also a spokesman for the Aruba Tourism Authority, appearing in television ads that first aired in late 2009 and 2010, as well as the voice of Anger in 2015's Pixar film, \"Inside Out\". He was voted 51st of the 100 greatest stand-up comedians of all time by Comedy Central in 2004; he was voted 5th in Comedy Central's Stand Up Showdown in 2008 and 11th in 2010. Black has served as an \"ambassador for voting rights\" for the American Civil Liberties Union, since 2013.\n\nBlack was born in Washington, D.C., the son of Jeannette, a teacher, and Sam Black, an artist and mechanical engineer. He was raised in a middle-class Jewish family in Silver Spring, Maryland, graduating from Springbrook High School in 1966.\n\nBlack recounts in his book \"Nothing's Sacred\" that he scored highly on the math section of his SAT exam and later applied to Yale, Princeton, Brown, Amherst, Williams, and Georgetown. Every college he applied to except Georgetown rejected him, and by that point he had decided he did not want to go there, so he spent a year at University of Maryland before transferring to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. There, he studied playwriting and was a brother of Pi Lambda Phi International fraternity and a member of Student Congress. After graduating in 1970, he returned to Washington, where he worked at the Appalachian Regional Commission, wrote plays, and performed stand-up comedy at the Brickskeller in Dupont Circle.\n\nHe earned an MFA degree at the Yale School of Drama in 1977, and was married for ten months when he was 26 years old.\n\nBlack's career began in theater as a playwright. He served as the playwright-in-residence and associate artistic director of Steve Olsen's West Bank Cafe Downstairs Theatre Bar in Hell's Kitchen in New York City, where he collaborated with composer and lyricist Rusty Magee and artistic director Rand Foerster on hundreds of one-act plays from 1981 to 1989. Also with Rusty Magee, Black wrote the musical \"The Czar of Rock and Roll\", which premiered at Houston's Alley Theatre in 1990. Black's stand-up comedy began as an opening act for the plays; he was also the master of ceremonies. After a management change at the theater, Black left and began working as a comedian, as well as finding bit parts in television and films.\n\nBlack's style of comedy is that of a man who, in dealing with the absurdities of life and contemporary politics, is approaching his personal limits of sanity. His techniques include sarcasm, hyperbole, profanity, shouting and his trademark angry finger-shaking, which bring emphasis to his topics of discussion. He once described his humor as \"being on the \"Titanic\" every single day and being the only person who knows what is going to happen.\"\n\nBlack has described his political affiliation as:\n\"I'm a socialist, so that puts me totally outside any concept...the Canadians get it. But seriously, most people don't get it. The idea of capping people's income just scares people. 'Oh, you're taking money from the rich.' Ooh, what a horrifying thing. These people really need $200 million\".\n\nBlack lists his comedic influences as George Carlin, Lenny Bruce, Richard Pryor, Lily Tomlin, Bill Hicks, Bob Newhart and Shelley Berman.\n\nIn 1998, Black starred in his first comedy special on the series \"Comedy Central Presents.\" He starred in two additional episodes of the series in 2000 and 2002. He starred in another special for the network in 2002, titled \"Taxed Beyond Belief\".\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005, Black hosted the \"World Stupidity Awards\" ceremony at Montreal's Just for Laughs comedy festival.\n\nIn 2004, he had an HBO stand-up special titled \"Black on Broadway.\" Black hosted Comedy Central's \"Last Laugh '07\", which aired on December 2, 2007 along with Dave Attell and D.L. Hughley.\n\nIn 2006, Black performed at the Warner Theatre in Washington, D.C. for an HBO special, \"Red, White, and Screwed\". It aired in June and a DVD was released in October. When explaining his choice of venue, Black said that \"some asshole\" was paid to count the number of times the word \"fuck\" was said in his previous HBO special, \"Black On Broadway\", and that the original location, the Kennedy Center, wanted him to cut back on its use. Black was told the number was 42, when actually it was approximately 78.\n\nBlack received a 2007 Grammy award for \"Best Comedy Album\" for his album \"The Carnegie Hall Performance\".\n\nBlack hosted the Comedy Central television series \"The Root of All Evil\" in 2008. The show pitted two people or pop-culture topics against each other as a panel of comedians argued, in the style of a court trial, which is more evil, e.g., \"Paris Hilton vs. Dick Cheney\" and \"Internet Porn vs. YouTube\". After hearing arguments from both sides, Black, acting as judge, made the final decision as to which is more evil.\n\nIn 2008, Black hosted \"History of the Joke with Lewis Black\", a 2-hour comedy-documentary on The History Channel.\n\nComedy Central's \"Stand-Up Month\" in 2008 featured specials originally presented on HBO by Black, along with programs featuring Dane Cook and Chris Rock. That year, as part of Comedy Central's \"Stand-Up Month\", Black's routine finished at #5 on \"Stand-Up Showdown 2008\", a viewer-based countdown of the top Comedy Central Presents routine.\n\nIn 2009, Black filmed two shows at the Fillmore Theater in Detroit, Michigan. These were the basis for the concert film \"Stark Raving Black\", which appeared in theaters for a limited time in October, and was released on video the next year.\n\nAt the end of 2009, Black returned to the History Channel to host \"Surviving the Holidays with Lewis Black\", in which he discussed the year-end pressures of Thanksgiving, Channukah, Christmas, and New Year's.\n\nIn 2011, Black filmed two shows at the State Theatre in Minneapolis, MN. The shows were used for Black's comedy special \"In God We Rust\". The special premiered on Epix HD.\n\nAn extended and uncensored version of the special broadcast on Epix HD was released on DVD and Blu-ray on September 11, 2011.\n\nIn August 2013, Black recorded his ninth stand-up special \"Old Yeller: Live at the Borgata\". \"Deadline\" reported that Black and the company that was releasing the stand-up special, \"Image Entertainment,\" would later air it in the form of pay-per-view and VOD, making it the first comedy special to air simultaneously on all cable, satellite and telco platforms.\n\nBlack appeared in episode 25 \"Aria\" (1991) of \"Law and Order\" as porn director Franklin Frome, \"\" episode \"Obscene\" (2004) as a shock jock, and in \"The Big Bang Theory\" episode \"The Jiminy Conjecture\" (2009) as Professor Crawley, an entomologist. He also released his autobiography, \"Nothing's Sacred\", in 2005. Since November 9, 2005, Black has been making appearances in small segments on \"The Weather Channel.\" In December 2005, he appeared in an animated holiday special \"The Happy Elf\", as the voice of the extremely tightly wound elf, Norbert.\n\nIn the film \"Accepted\", a film about high school graduates who create a college when they fail to get accepted into any, he played Dean Ben Lewis of the school \"South Harmon Institute of Technology\". He also appeared in the 2006 films \"Man of the Year\" and \"Unaccompanied Minors\". Black hosted Comedy Central's \"Last Laugh '06\", which aired on December 10, 2006.\n\nBlack was the voice of \"Manobrain\" during the third season of the Cartoon Network series \"Duck Dodgers\". He was the inventor of a diet pill which was stolen while he was in college. He blamed the theft on his college friend Dr. I. Q. Hi, not realizing that the actual thief was Duck Dodgers. The theft set Manobrain on the path of evil.\n\nBlack provided the voice of the Deadly Duplicator in four episodes of the Adult Swim show \"\" and in the .\n\nBlack provided the voice of oxpecker Ted in the \"My Gym Partner's a Monkey\" episode, \"Hornbill and Ted's Bogus Journey\". The character is portrayed in the same fashion as his comedy shows, though without profanity. In addition, the bird's clothes, looks, and mannerisms match those of himself. He also voiced Mr. E/Ricky Owens in \"Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated\" and in \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" a middle-aged man named Vic who is kidnapped by the Krang and mutated into a spider-like monster called \"Spider-Bytez\" by Michelangelo. He also voiced Anger in the Pixar film \"Inside Out\". He also guest starred as the voice of Santa Claus in the SpongeBob SquarePants episode, \"Goons on the Moon.\"\n\nOn June 18, 2007, he sat in with Southern rock/Jam band Gov't Mule at the 6th annual Bonnaroo music festival, where he had performed earlier that weekend, for what was to be a quick joke. A member of the audience threw a bottle at Black, which struck him. Black was upset and he encouraged the audience to boo the heckler before leaving the stage in disgust, while shouting obscenities at the heckler. This act was seen in an episode of \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\" titled \"YouTube vs. Porn\".\n\nOn June 29, 2007, Black gave a benefit show at Springbrook High School, his alma mater, in the school's auditorium for 1,100 alumni, faculty, and students. He performed in his usual style, stopping at points to remark how good it felt to use that language on that particular stage. At the end of the show he was given a Springbrook football jersey, and cursed at one teacher for giving him a B and causing him not to graduate first in his class.\n\nIn mid-December 2007, Black went with Robin Williams, Kid Rock, Lance Armstrong and Rachel Smith, Miss USA 2007, on a USO trip to support the troops in Iraq and Kuwait. The last show was on 22 December at the U.S Naval Station in Rota, Spain.\n\nBlack helped create the annual Carolina Comedy Festival at his alma mater, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nIn 2008, Black went on tour to promote his book \"Me of Little Faith\". Black did a stand-up tour called \"Let Them Eat Cake\", with material from that tour being featured on his comedy album \"Anticipation\".\n\nBeginning in January 2010, Black embarked on a new tour called \"In God We Rust\".\n\n2016 - The Emperor's New Clothes - The Naked Truth tour.\n\n2018 - The Joke's On Us Tour.\n\nIn 2000, Black and fellow comedian Jim Norton were arrested for their involvement with \"The Naked Teen Voyeur Bus\", a specially designed bus with acrylic glass walls containing numerous 18- and 19-year-old topless women. This bus was driven around Manhattan while reports about it were broadcast on the Opie and Anthony radio show. The radio station management did not inform the O&A show that the bus's route was also the route that President Clinton was using that day. Twenty-eight hours after their arrest, Black and Norton were released. Black appeared on \"The Daily Show\" the following night where he stated he was exercising his constitutional rights. He then joked that the location of this particular right was unclear, but that it was \"between 'all men are created equal' and 'don't shit where you eat.'\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53672416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53672416", "title": "List of Vogue Arabia cover models", "text": "List of Vogue Arabia cover models\n\nThis list of \"Vogue Arabia\" cover models is a catalog of cover models who have appeared on the cover of \"Vogue Arabia\", the Arabian edition of \"Vogue\" magazine, starting with the magazine's first issue in March 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2245840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2245840", "title": "List of literary initials", "text": "List of literary initials\n\nA large number of authors choose to use some form of initials in their name when it appears in their literary work. This includes some of the most famous authors of the 20th century – D. H. Lawrence, J. D. Salinger, T. S. Eliot, J. R. R. Tolkien, etc. – and also a host of lesser-known writers.\n\nWell-known initials and their corresponding full names are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "11853793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11853793", "title": "List of women's rights activists", "text": "List of women's rights activists\n\nThis article is a list of notable women's rights activists, arranged alphabetically by modern country names and by the names of the persons listed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSabina Hassan\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLesley Abdela (born 1945) – women’s rights campaigner, gender consultant and journalist who has worked for women’s representation in over 40 countries including post-conflict countries: Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Iraq, Afghanistan, Nepal and Aceh. In 1980 she founded the all-Party 300 Group to campaign to get more women into local, national and European politics in the UK. Author of 100s of features in Guardian, Times, Independent and major women’s magazines and the paperback Women with X Appeal: Women Politicians in Britain Today (London: Macdonald Optima 1989). \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17938506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17938506", "title": "Lucius Julius", "text": "Lucius Julius\n\nLucius Julius was a combination of \"praenomen\" (first name) and the Julian \"gens\" name used by several men of the Roman Republic and Roman Empire. The Iullus or Jullus branch was older than the more famous branch of Caesares.\n\nLucius Julius Jullus, found more often as Lucius Iulius Iullus, was Magister Equitum in 431 BC, and consul in 430. Cicero has the \"praenomen\" as Gaius.\n\nLucius Julius Jullus, a military tribune with consular powers in 397 BC.\n\nLucius Julius Libo, a consul in 267 BC.\n\nLucius Julius Caesar I may have been the son of Numerius Julius Caesar or identical to Lucius Julius Libo II, with Sextus Julius Caesar (praetor 208 BC) as his son, in which case the latter would be the father of Sextus Julius Caesar (military tribune 181 BC) identical to Sextus Julius Caesar (consul 157 BC). \n\nLucius Julius, possibly with the \"cognomen\" Caesar, a praetor in Cisalpine Gaul in 183 BC. His mission was to keep Transalpine Gauls from settling in the area of Aquileia, without resorting to war.\n\nLucius Julius, possibly with the \"cognomen\" Caesar and to be identified as the Julius Caesar who was \"praetor urbanus\" in 166 and died suddenly in office.\n\nLucius Julius Caesar II, first cousin of Caesar's grandfather, grandson of Lucius Julius Caesar I;\n\nLucius Julius Caesar (consul 90 BC), second cousin of Caesar's father (d. 87 BC, praetor 94 BC, consul 90 BC, killed by partisans of Marius).\n\nLucius Julius Caesar (consul 64 BC), third cousin of Caesar, consul in 64 BC (d. aft. 43 BC, consul 63 BC)\n\nLucius Julius Caesar V, third cousin once removed of Caesar, son of the consul in 64 BC (proquaestor 46 BC, killed soon aft. Battle of Thapsus);\n\nLucius Julius Caesar, more commonly known as Lucius Caesar (17 BC – AD 2), i.e. Lucius Vipsanius Agrippa, became Lucius Julius Caesar after adoption by Augustus.\n\nLucius Julius, named in one source as curule aedile in 146.\n\nLucius Julius, \"monetalis\" (moneyer) around 133–126 BC.\n\nLucius Julius, a \"monetalis\" around 100–97 BC.\n\nLucius Julius Bursio, a quaestor or \"monetalis\" around 84–82 BC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1059197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1059197", "title": "Mary Astell", "text": "Mary Astell\n\nMary Astell (Newcastle upon Tyne, 12 November 1666 – London, 11 May 1731) was an English feminist writer and rhetorician. Her advocacy of equal educational opportunities for women has earned her the title \"the first English feminist.\"\n\nFew records of Mary Astell's life have survived. As biographer Ruth Perry explains: \"as a woman she had little or no business in the world of commerce, politics, or law. She was born, she died; she owned a small house for some years; she kept a bank account; she helped to open a charity school in Chelsea: these facts the public listings can supply.\" Only four of her letters were saved and these because they had been written to important men of the period. Researching the biography, Perry uncovered more letters and manuscript fragments, but she notes that if Astell had not written to wealthy aristocrats who could afford to pass down entire estates, very little of her life would have survived.\n\nMary Astell was born in Newcastle upon Tyne on 12 November 1666, to Peter and Mary (Errington) Astell. Her parents had two other children, William, who died in infancy, and Peter, her younger brother. She was baptized in St. John's Church in Newcastle. Her family was upper-middle-class and lived in Newcastle throughout her early childhood. Her father was a conservative royalist Anglican who managed a local coal company. As a woman, Mary received no formal education, although she did receive an informal education from her uncle when she was eight, an ex-clergyman named Ralph Astell whose bouts with alcoholism prompted his suspension from the Church of England. Though suspended from the Church, he was affiliated with the Cambridge-based philosophical school that based its teachings around philosophers such as Aristotle, Plato, and Pythagoras. Her father died when she was 12 years old, leaving her without a dowry. With the remainder of the family finances invested in her brother's higher education, Mary and her mother relocated to live with Mary's aunt.\n\nAfter the death of her mother and aunt in 1688, Astell moved to Chelsea, London, where she was fortunate enough to become acquainted with a circle of literary and influential women, including Lady Mary Chudleigh, Elizabeth Thomas, Judith Drake, Elizabeth Elstob, and Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. These women assisted in the development and publication of her work. She was also in contact with the Archbishop of Canterbury, William Sancroft, who was known for his charitable works; Sancroft assisted Astell financially and, furthermore introduced her to her future publisher.\n\nShe was one of the first English women, following Bathsua Makin, to advocate the idea that women were just as rational as men, and just as deserving of education. First published in 1694, her \"Serious Proposal to the Ladies for the Advancement of their True and Greatest Interest\" presents a plan for an all-female college where women could pursue a life of the mind.\n\nIn 1700, Astell published \"Some Reflections upon Marriage\". She wittily critiques the philosophical underpinnings of the institution of marriage in 1700's England, warning women of the dangers of a hasty or ill-considered choice. The Duchess of Mazarine is used as an example of \"the dangers of an ill Education and unequal Marriage\". Astell argues that education will help women to make better matrimonial choices and meet the challenges of the married state: \"She has need of a strong Reason, of a truly Christian and well-temper'd Spirit, of all the Assistance the best Education can give her, and ought to have some good assurance of her own Firmness and Vertue, who ventures on such a Trial\".\n\nAstell warns that disparity in intelligence, character, and fortune may lead to misery, and recommends that marriage be based on lasting friendship rather than short-lived attraction. A woman should look for \"a good Understanding, a Vertuous Mind, and in all other respects let there be as much equality as may be.\" Astell expanded on this theme in response to critics in the third edition of \"Some Reflections upon Marriage\".\n\nAfter withdrawing from public life in 1709, she founded a charity school for girls in Chelsea as a token of the Society for the Propagation of Christian Knowledge, organizing the school's curriculum herself with likely financial support from her patrons Lady Catherine Jones and Lady Elizabeth Hastings. When she was 60 years old, Astell was invited to live with Lady Catherine Jones, where she resided until her death.\n\nAstell died in 1731, a few months after a mastectomy to remove a cancerous right breast. In her last days, she refused to see any of her acquaintances and stayed in a room with her coffin, thinking only of God; she was buried in the churchyard of Chelsea Church in London.\n\nAstell is remembered for her ability to debate freely with both contemporary men and women, and particularly for her groundbreaking methods of negotiating the position of women in society by engaging in philosophical debate (Descartes was a particular influence) rather than basing her arguments in historical evidence as had previously been attempted. Descartes' theory of dualism, a separate mind and body, allowed Astell to promote the idea that women as well as men had the ability to reason, and subsequently they should not be treated so poorly: \"If all Men are born Free, why are all Women born Slaves?\"\n\nAll of Mary Astell's works were published anonymously. Astell's two best known books, \"A Serious Proposal to the Ladies, for the Advancement of Their True and Greatest Interest\" (1694) and \"A Serious Proposal, Part II\" (1697), outline her plan to establish a new type of institution for women to assist in providing women with both religious and secular education. She suggests extending women's career options beyond mother and nun. Astell wanted all women to have the same opportunity as men to spend eternity in heaven with God, and she believed that for this they needed to be educated and to understand their experiences. The 'nunnery' style education she proposed would enable women to live in a protected environment, without the influences of the external patriarchal society.\n\nHer proposal was never adopted because critics said it seemed \"too Catholic\" for the English. Later her ideas about women were satirized in \"The Tatler\" by the writer Jonathan Swift. While the writer Daniel Defoe admired the first part of Astell's proposal, he believed that her recommendations were \"impracticable.\" However, Patricia Springborg notes that Defoe's own recommendation for an academy for women as detailed in his \"Essay Upon Projects\" did not significantly differ from Astell's original proposal. Despite this, she was still an intellectual force in London's educated classes.\n\nA few years later, Astell published the second part of \"A Serious Proposal\", detailing her own vision of women's education for courtly ladies. She broke away from the contemporary rhetorical style of the period where orators spoke before an audience for learning, and instead offered a conversational style of teaching \"neighbors\" the proper way of behavior. She referred only to the Port-Royal Logic as a source of contemporary influence, though still relied upon classical rhetorical theories as she presented her own original ideas. In her presentation, she offered that rhetoric, as an art, does not require a male education to be master, and listed the means of which a woman could acquire the necessary skills from natural logic, which established Astell as a capable female rhetorician.\n\nIn the early 1690s Astell entered into correspondence with John Norris of Bemerton, after reading Norris's \"Practical Discourses, upon several Divine subjects\". The letters illuminate Astell's thoughts on God and theology. Norris thought the letters worthy of publication and had them published with Astell's consent as \"Letters Concerning the Love of God\" (1695). Her name did not appear in the book, but her identity was soon discovered and her rhetorical style was much lauded by contemporaries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46336302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46336302", "title": "Mona Al Munajjed", "text": "Mona Al Munajjed\n\nMona Al Munajjed is a Saudi sociologist and expert on the social role of women in Arab countries. She has worked with several United Nations agencies on projects related to child labour, gender and development in Arab countries. \n\nMona Al Munajjed gained a MA in sociology from New York University and a PhD in sociology from George Washington University. as first social affairs officer at the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia. Her project \"Activating the Role of Women's Welfare Associations in Saudi Arabia\", funded by Abdul Latif Jameel Company Ltd, pioneered the funding of UN projects in Saudi Arabia by the private sector. In 2005 she received the UN 21 award for the project. \n\nSince 2011 she has been named in \"CEO Middle East\" 's list of the 100 Most Powerful Arab Women. She was named as #7 in their list of the 100 Most Powerful Arab Women 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "3376765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3376765", "title": "Nero (DC Comics)", "text": "Nero (DC Comics)\n\nAlexander Nero is a fictional character, a supervillain in the DC Comics universe. The character was created by Judd Winick and Darryl Banks in \"Green Lantern\" (vol. 3) #132 (January 2001).\n\nNero was a destructive and mentally disturbed artist who was given a yellow power ring by the Qwardians, similar to Sinestro's. During his stint in the mental asylum, he was treated for several mental disorders such as schizophrenia, paranoid delusions, and bi-polar disorder. Nero claimed his parents were abusive, although, given his state of mind, such assessments should not be taken at face value.\n\nNero was the second attempt by the Qwardians to take down the new Green Lantern Kyle Rayner, the first being Fatality. In order to find someone with the same imagination and artistic skill as Rayner, the Qwardians found Nero, who had a history of drawing violent and dark pictures in his asylum. Nero was designed as the \"archenemy\" of Kyle Rayner, seeing how both are artists with limitless imagination. He escaped from the asylum, only to be confronted by a combination of both the original Green Lantern Alan Scott and Kyle Rayner. A battle ensued and Alan Scott was seriously wounded by Nero, forcing Kyle to retreat and call upon the assistance of the JLA. Kyle Rayner asked the JLA not only to stop Nero but to be prepared to kill him, reasoning that Nero's ring was one of the most powerful weapons in the universe and his insanity made him a profound threat. While the JLA declined his request, they were unable to stop him in several skirmishes of hit-and-run. In the end, the Flash found tapes of his parents and Kyle played the images. Eventually, the images consumed Nero, traumatising him and resulting in his defeat.\n\nNero returned a short time later when the residual Central Power Battery energy made itself known (it was left in the sun following the sacrificial reignition by Hal Jordan in the crossover \"The Final Night\"). Both Kyle and Nero's power levels were greatly increased and they waged war in space to see who would lay claim to the power. Kyle was eventually able to defeat Nero and claim the power (which caused him to become Ion for the first time) and it was believed that Nero was taken or rescued by the Qwardians.\n\nNero was seen when the villainous Ultra-Humanite (I) imprisoned all super-powered beings of Earth and brainwashed them into becoming his private army.\n\nAlex Nero returned, revealed as having masqueraded as Kyle during previous issues by Hal Jordan, who confronted him for his crimes. Nero was presumed responsible for the massacres once thought to have been committed by Kyle. After a battle with Kyle and Hal Jordan, he was rendered into a vegetative state after being overwhelmed by Ion's power. Before he became totally vegetative, he revealed that he was forced to masquerade as Ion by an unknown group. Kyle proceeded to Oa to seek answers from the Guardians of the Universe, bringing Nero with him. However, when Nero awoke on Oa in the Guardians' presence, he seemed to spontaneously release a massive amount of energy, as if exploding. Held captive by the Guardians of the Universe, still broken and unstable but now conscious again, Nero revealed that he couldn't name his mysterious contractors. The Guardians confirmed that the same foe or foes that set Alex Nero (and Effigy) against Kyle had altered Alex's mind, expunging all his knowledge about the mysterious group.\n\nNero was released from his sciencell along with Superboy-Prime and others during the Sinestro Corps' assault on Oa. Nero hid and eluded capture before finding and confronting Kyle and Sodam Yat near Oa in the \"Tales of the Sinestro Corps: Ion Special\". During the battle, it was revealed that the Sinestro Corps had been the ones responsible for manipulating Nero into impersonating Kyle. Working together, Kyle and Sodam Yat were able to defeat the mad artist and return him to his sciencell. Despite possessing a yellow ring, Nero is not a member of the Sinestro Corps.\n\nFollowing his participation in a sciencell riot, Nero was executed by the Alpha Lanterns. The pool of blood left over was later approached by a black power ring, which reconstituted Nero's entire body, turning him into a Black Lantern.\n\nAs with the Green Lantern power ring, Nero is able to make solid light constructs at will using his yellow power ring, except that it is powered by the yellow energy of emotional spectrum based from fear. Nero's mental disabilities and psychosis allow him to use his raw imagination, creating constructs in numbers and complexity that dwarf those of most Green Lanterns, including Kyle Rayner. Rayner implied to the JLA that since his power ring can split an atom and cause an atomic explosion, Nero's ring might be capable of performing the same feat.\n"}
{"id": "4135638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4135638", "title": "Ngawang Wangyal", "text": "Ngawang Wangyal\n\nNgawang Wangyal () (October 15, 1901 - January 30, 1983), popularly known as \"Geshe Wangyal,\" was a Buddhist priest and scholar of Kalmyk origin who was born in the Astrakhan province in southeast Russia sometime in 1901.\n\nGeshe Wangyal was the youngest of four children and had chosen at age six to enter the monastery as a novice monk. After the Russian Civil War, Geshe Wangyal went to Lhasa, Tibet, where he studied at the Gomang College of Drepung Monastic University in Lhasa until 1935 when he decided to return to his homeland to obtain financial support to complete his studies. \n\nDue to Communist persecution of religious clergy, Geshe Wangyal decided to end his return trip home. Instead, he found a job in Peking, China, comparing different editions of the Tibetan collections of Buddha's word (Kanjur) and of the treatises of Indian commentators (Tanjur). In 1937, Geshe Wangyal left Peking to return to Tibet via India after earning enough money to support himself until he received his geshe degree from Drepung.\n\nWhile in Calcutta, Geshe Wangyal was hired as a translator to Sir Charles Bell, a well-known British statesman, scholar and explorer, and accompanied him on a trip through China and Manchuria before returning to Tibet. Afterwards, he received his geshe degree in Lhasa and used his remaining earnings and many newly established contacts to raise funds for the purpose of assisting poor scholars to obtain their geshe degree, especially Mongolians in India, who, like him, were cut off from support from a Communist home country.\n\nWhen the Communist Chinese invaded Tibet in the early 1950s, Geshe Wangyal escaped to India. Then in 1955, he went to the United States to work as a priest among the Kalmyk Americans who were newly resettled in New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania as refugees from Central Europe. \n\nIn 1958, Geshe Wangyal established and built a Buddhist monastery in Washington, New Jersey called \"Labsum Shedrub Ling\". He served as the monastery's head teacher until his death in January, 1983. He taught many students of Western background and contributed greatly to the spread of Tibetan Buddhism in the United States. \n\nGeshe Wangyal later taught at Columbia University and during the 1960s and 1970s, he sponsored visits by several monks and lamas from the Tibetan emigre settlement in India and instructed them in English so they could serve the Buddhist community in the United States. \n\nIn 1972, the American Institute of Buddhist Studies was founded as suggested by the Dalai Lama and Geshe Ngawang Wangyal.\n\nDr. Wangyal translated two volumes of popular Tibetan and Sanskrit stories illustrative of Buddhist teachings, \"The Door of Liberation\" and \"The Prince Who Became a Cuckoo.\" With Brian Cutillo, he also translated the \"Illuminations of Sakya-Pandita\" published by (LOTSAWA 1988). The book is now out-of-print. \n\nAmong his students were Dr. Robert Thurman (Professor of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist Studies at Columbia University), Dr. Jeffrey Hopkins (Professor Emeritus University of Virginia), and the painter and drawing teacher Ted Seth Jacobs\n"}
{"id": "10197166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10197166", "title": "Nicola Tappenden", "text": "Nicola Tappenden\n\nNicola Tappenden (born 1982) is an English model. She is also known for appearing in the 2010 edition of \"Celebrity Big Brother\". She was the sixth contestant evicted, in a secret eviction, on 27 January 2010. Tappenden is also known by her modelling name Nicola T.\n\nTappenden was born in Croydon, Surrey. She went to Shirley High School in Croydon. She began her topless modelling career as a Page Three girl at the age of 20 in 2002 after winning \"The Sun\"'s first ever Page 3 Idol competition whilst working for Citigroup asset management. She has become a regular fixture since, as well as undertaking other glamour and retail fashion modelling assignments.\n\nIn May 2007, she entered the Miss Great Britain contest as Miss Croydon along with Michelle Marsh as Miss Oldham. Tappenden came in 10th place, with Marsh reaching 4th place.\n\nAs an actress, Tappenden appeared in the film \"\" in 2005.\n\nTappenden was invited to take part in \"WAGs Boutique\" (due to her relationship with Fulham striker Bobby Zamora), where two teams of WAGs competed to run two fashion boutiques over a three-month period. Later, in 2007, she released an exercise video, \"WAGS Workout\".\n\nIn January 2010, Tappenden was a housemate in the seventh \"Celebrity Big Brother\". She was evicted from the reality show on 27 January in a surprise eviction, finishing in 6th place.\n\nShe also appeared in \"50 Greatest Plastic Surgery Shockers\" in December 2010.\n\nTappenden has recorded a single, called \"Drunk\", with rapper Coolio, which was released on 1 March 2010.\n\nShe also took part in the Race for Life single \"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun\", which was released in April 2010. The track features several other celebs, including Kym Marsh, Danielle Lloyd, Lisa Scott Lee, and Kelly from Liberty X.\n\nShe also took part in a WAGs edition of \"Come Dine with Me\".\n\nHaving dated Fulham striker Bobby Zamora for two years, Tappenden gave birth to their first child in November 2008, a daughter named Poppy.\n\nTappenden's fashion icons include Lindsay Lohan and fellow WAG Victoria Beckham,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58402185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58402185", "title": "Nikolay Shubin", "text": "Nikolay Shubin\n\nNikolay Pavlovich Shubin (; 1956 in Tbilisi, Georgian SSR), known as the \"The Cemetery Director\", is a Georgian-born Russian serial killer, who killed 13 homeless and single people between 2004 and 2006 in the city of Lipetsk.\n\nShubin was born in Tbilisi. In 1976, Shubin was hospitalized in the Voronezh Regional Clinical Psychoneurogical Dispensary with a diagnosis of neurasthenia.\n\nShubin was arrested in October 2006, after policemen detained him in connection with the disappearance of a local pensioner named Mescheryakov. He had disappeared after going to the park to play a game of chess with Shubin. At the interrogation, Shubin immediately confessed to the murder and showed where he buried the body. During the investigation, he began to talk about another murder committed by him. Every week, he reported on his previous killings, and showed the locations where the bodies were buried. Shubin always disoriented his victims with a strong blow to the head, then bound their hands and feet with wire, and finally strangling them a striker, which he always carried with him. He did not express any shame from his crimes and told about them proudly and very confidently. Shubin called himself the \"Cemetery Director\". The motive for the murders was simple - a quarrel or a loss at a game in chess.\n\nDuring the investigation, Shubin was examined, and was diagnozed with a continuous type of paranoid schizophrenia. Because of this court, the court found him unfit to stand trial and sentenced him to compulsory treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2821427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2821427", "title": "Oscar (Irish mythology)", "text": "Oscar (Irish mythology)\n\nOscar (\"oscara\" = \"deer friend\") is a figure in the Fenian Cycle of Irish mythology. He is the son of Oisín (the son of the epic hero Fionn mac Cumhail) and Niamh, and the brother of Plor na mBan. Though possibly a later addition to the cycle, Oscar was a popular character, and appeared prominently in several later Fenian tales, serving his grandfather as one of the fianna. \n\nIn Bruidhean Chaorthainn (Fairy Palace of the Quicken Trees), Oscar swept off the head of Sinsar, the King of the World, in the battle on the ford of Shannon.\n\nHis death is described in the story \"Cath Gabhra\" (\"The Battle of Gabhra\"), which pits the increasingly corrupt Fianna against the army of High King Cairbre Lifechair. Cairbre, aided by defected Fianna warriors loyal to Goll mac Morna, receives his death blow from Oscar, but mortally wounds him with his steel chains as his final act. Oscar's death causes Fionn to weep for the only time in his life, and serves as the final blow to the fianna's strength.\n\nOisín had a second son who was named Oscar, born between him and Niamh in Tir na nÓg. Together the couple had three children, the other son who was named Finn, and a daughter named Plor na mBan. The account occurs in the poem, \"The Lay of Oisin on the Land of the Young\", attributed to Mícheál Coimín in the 18th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "55334639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55334639", "title": "Patrick Reinsborough", "text": "Patrick Reinsborough\n\nPatrick Reinsborough (born 1972) is an American writer, activist, social change theorist and practitioner. He is the co-author of \"Re:Imagining Change: How to Use Story-based Strategy to Win Campaigns, Build Movements and Change the World\" (PM Press 2010/2017) and contributor to social movement anthologies including \"Globalize Liberation: How to Uproot the System and Build a Better World\" (City Lights 2004) and \"Beautiful Trouble: a toolbox for revolution\" (OR Books 2012).\n\nReinsborough's writing and political work deals with building transformative movements, shifting cultural narratives and political imagination with a focus on the ecological crisis. He authored the widely circulated essay/zine \"Decolonizing the Revolutionary Imagination\". He was a founding member of the \"smart\"Meme Strategy & Training Project, which began in 2002 training grassroots activists to apply meme theory as a way to shift political debates, amplify social change efforts and \"change the story\". Reinsborough is one of the creators of story-based strategy methodology and associated with widely used social change frameworks such as \"narrative power analysis\", \"points of intervention\" and the \"battle of the story\". He co-founded and was the Executive Director of the Center for Story-based Strategy.\n\nReinsborough was a prominent organizer, trainer and media spokesperson for the U.S. wing of the anti-corporate globalization movement often known as the global justice movement and was involved in mass actions such as the shutdown of the World Trade Organization in 1999 actions against the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, the World Economic Forum and the protests against the Free Tree Area of the Americas Meeting in Miami in 2003.\n\nHe has been a public voice against U.S. militarism and called for the American public to engage in mass nonviolent disruption to stop wars. He was an anti-war organizer and media strategist working with the San Francisco-based mobilization Direct Action to Stop the War, which led mass protests against the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq. He has also advocated for making connections between opposing war and other issues such as racial and economic justice, corporate power and the climate crisis.\n\nReinsborough has been associated with a number of campaigns challenging the human rights and ecological impacts of fossil fuels as well as demanding stronger action to address climate change. He helped organize an international solidarity campaign supporting Colombia’s indigenous U’wa people, who threatened to commit collective suicide to protest oil drilling on their ancestral territories.\n\nHe has supported protests inside the United Nations COP Climate Talks that criticize the failure of the process to address the climate crisis as well as worked to amplify the voices of North American indigenous leaders participating in the UN forum. Reinsborough is an advocate for the climate movement taking stronger leadership from fossil-fuel impacted communities as a way to accelerate a just transition to a renewable energy future. He has been a strong critic of the Trump administration, calling them \"neo-fascist\" and pawns of “global petrocapitalism”.\n\n"}
{"id": "4839171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4839171", "title": "Racheltjie de Beer", "text": "Racheltjie de Beer\n\nRachel de Beer (, 1831–1843) (sometimes known by the diminutive form, \"Racheltjie\") is an Afrikaner heroine, who gave her life in order to save that of her brother, Dirkie de Beer. She was the daughter of George Stephanus de Beer (b. 1794).\n\nIn the winter months of 1843 Rachel was part of a trek from the Orange Free State to the south-eastern Transvaal. During one of their nightly stopovers, the members of the trek realised that a calf called Frik, much-beloved by their children, was missing.\n\nA search party was formed, in which Rachel and her six-year-old brother also took part. However, during the gathering dusk Rachel and her brother got separated from the search party and became lost. As the night progressed it got very cold and started snowing.\n\nRealizing that their chances of survival were slim, Rachel found an anthill hollowed out by an aardvark, took off her clothes, put them on her brother and commanded him to get into the hollowed-out anthill. She then lay in front of the opening of the anthill in order to keep out the cold.\n\nThe children were found the next morning by the trekking party. Rachel was dead, but her brother had survived.\n\nIt is possible that neither of the children existed, however. The history of the period is not well documented. To date no undisputed proof has been presented to substantiate any claims regarding Racheltjie de Beer.\n\nFiction or not, Rachel de Beer is entrenched in the Afrikaner culture, which is evident by the number of streets and schools named after her.\n\nIn the very comprehensive genealogical work “The De Beer Family – Three centuries in South Africa” several pages are devoted to the Rachel de Beer story, looking at all the possibilities from the available genealogical data.\n\nIt turns out that there was a De Beer family that fits the names and ages as mentioned in the original story quite closely. However, they lived 60 years later. If the incident happened in 1903 instead of 1843, this family would fit the facts quite nicely. It would also better explain why there is no mention of this story before the early 1900s.\n\nBy the third edition of the work more information has come to light to also eliminate this last possible scenario. The Rachel de Beer in this instance has been confirmed to have lived well into adulthood.\n\nBased on this research it seems unlikely that the story of Rachel de Beer is factual.\n\nIn October 2012, two Afrikaans journalists published their findings that the story of Racheltjie de Beer bears many similarities to that of the American heroine Hazel Miner. They wrote about it in the tabloid \"By\", a weekly supplement of the three Afrikaans newspapers \"Die Burger\", \"Beeld\", and \"Volksblad\". The very first story about Rachel appeared in print only about a month or three after the \"North Dakota Children's Home Finder\" gave Hazel Miner's (true) story the wider publicity that it had deserved. The Afrikaans journalists also posted a more elaborate paper on their findings to the web under the title \"Die laaste rits bewyse: Racheltjie is bloot 'n afspieëling van Hazel Miner (The last series of evidences: Little Rachel is merely a mirror image of Hazel Miner)\".\n"}
{"id": "48118920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48118920", "title": "Rahamna", "text": "Rahamna\n\nRahamna (Arabic: الرحامنة) is an Arabic-speaking tribe of Arab descent who settled north of the Sahara between the 13th and 15th centuries. In 1525, they mobilized with Mohammed esh-Sheikh to fight the Portuguese in Agadir, Mogador, Safi and Mazagan. In the second half of the 16th century, they inhabited a vast plain north of Marrakesh. They are related to the \"Yagout\" tribe, who live in the Western Sahara.\n\n"}
{"id": "27089940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27089940", "title": "Roanoke people", "text": "Roanoke people\n\nThe Roanoke (), also spelled Roanoac, were a Carolina Algonquian-speaking people whose territory comprised present-day Dare County, Roanoke Island and part of the mainland at the time of English exploration and colonization. They were one of the numerous Carolina Algonquian tribes, which may have numbered 5,000-10,000 people in total in eastern North Carolina at the time of English encounter. \n\nThe last known chief of the Roanoke was Wanchese, who traveled to England with colonists in 1584. The smaller Croatan people may have been a branch of the Roanoke or a separate tribe allied with it. \n\nThe Roanoke may have had their capital on the western shore of Croatan Sound, at \"Dasamonguepeuk\". This was one of the significant towns noted by the English colonists in the sixteenth century.\n\nNumerous place names were derived from the Roanoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "38874620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38874620", "title": "Rudolf Battěk", "text": "Rudolf Battěk\n\nRudolf Battěk (2 November 1924 – 17 March 2013) was a Czech sociologist, politician, and political dissident during Czechoslovakia Communist era. \n\nBattěk co-founded the Club of Committed Non-Party Members (KAN) in 1968, which promoted human rights. KAN was banned by the Soviet Union following the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia later in 1968. Battěk was arrested and imprisoned on two occasions for activities against the Communist regime in Czechoslovakia. He spent ten years imprisoned by Communist authorities during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nBattěk was a signatory of Charter 77, which criticized the Communist regime for rejecting human rights. He also joined the Committee for the Defence of the Unjustly Prosecuted.\n\nIn 1989, Battěk re-entered politics following the Velvet Revolution. He joined the Czech Social Democratic Party (ČSSD), but was expelled from the party in June 1990. Battěk became a member of the Association of Social Democrats after his expulsion from the ČSSD. In 1993, the leadership of the ČSSD reversed its original decision to expel Battěk and invited him to rejoin the ČSSD. Battěk declined the offer to rejoin the ČSSD, choosing to remain a member of the Association of Social Democrats. In 1996, Battěk ran as a candidate for the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as an independent from ward 8 in Prague, but lost the election.\n\nIn 1997, he was awarded the Order of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk by President of the Czech Republic Václav Havel.\n\nRudolf Battěk died on 17 March 2013, at the age of 88.\n"}
{"id": "25115382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25115382", "title": "Sarma Melngailis", "text": "Sarma Melngailis\n\nSarma Melngailis (born 10 September 1972) is the former owner and co-founder of Pure Food and Wine, a raw foodism restaurant in New York City, and the founder and CEO of One Lucky Duck.\n\nMelngailis was born and raised in Newton, Massachusetts and attended Newton North High School. Her early interest in food came from her mother, a professional chef. Her father was a physicist at MIT. Melngailis graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1994 with a B.A. in Economics and a B.S. in Economics from the Wharton School. She moved to New York City, working at Bear Stearns until 1996, then moving to Bain Capital in Boston on private equity investment. She returned to New York City in 1998 and joined a high-yield investment fund at CIBC, but soon left to enroll at New York’s French Culinary Institute from which she graduated in 1999.\n\nTogether with her then boyfriend chef, author and speaker Matthew Kenney, she opened Commissary in 2001, but it closed in March 2003, after which she consulted for Jeffrey Chodorow's China Grill Management. With Chodorow and Kenney, Melngailis opened Pure Food and Wine in June 2004 as New York City’s first upscale raw food restaurant. Located in Manhattan's Gramercy Park neighborhood, the restaurant was listed twice in New York magazine’s “Top 100 Restaurants” and five years in a row in Forbes magazine’s list of “All Star New York Eateries.\"\n\nOne Lucky Duck Juice and Takeaway is the name of the takeaway retail store attached to the restaurant, Pure Food and Wine. OneLuckyDuck.com, launched in 2005, is an online store for snacks prepared and packaged from her restaurant as well as ingredients, skincare, supplements, books, apparel, and home products, all related to raw and organic living. A second One Lucky Duck location was open in New York City's Chelsea Market from December 2009 through January 2015.\n\nIn 2014, One Lucky Duck Juice and Takeaway's first location outside of New York City opened in San Antonio, Texas.\n\nIn January 2015, Pure Food and Wine and One Lucky Duck staff walked out en masse due to Melngailis' failure to pay employees a month's worth of owed wages. This was the second time in a year a month's worth of wages had been withheld from employees, the first happening in July 2014.\n\nOn February 8, 2015 Melngailis addressed the walkout and closure in a blog post. She apologized for the incident, but the blog post was subsequently removed. In an interview with Well+Good, Melngalis said that the delayed wages were due to slim margins caused by debts and expensive ingredients, and that she had also previously missed her own rent payments. During the ordeal, Melingailis provided employees a different explanation, blaming the situation on changing banks.\n\nIn April 2015, Pure Food and Wine, One Lucky Duck, and OneLuckyDuck.com reopened. A majority of staff did not return to the restaurant after its reopening.\n\nAgain in July 2015, the staff of Pure Food and Wine as well as One Lucky Duck walked out due to unpaid wages. The Restaurant has been permanently shut down.\n\nOn May 12, 2016, it was reported that Sarma and her husband Anthony Strangis (also known as \"Shane Fox\") were arrested in Sevierville, Tennessee, after ordering a pizza from Domino's Pizza.\n\nIt has been reported that \"(I)n addition to the fugitive from justice warrants, Strangis was wanted for grand larceny, scheme to defraud and violation of labor law. Melngailas was wanted for grand larceny, criminal tax fraud, scheme to defraud and violation of labor law.\"\n\nOn December 19, 2016, prosecutors offered Melngailis a plea deal in which she would agree to serve one to three years in prison. Melngailis' attorneys were reported by \"Vanity Fair\" to be planning a \"coercive control\" defence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51519972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51519972", "title": "Sonya Haddad", "text": "Sonya Haddad\n\nSonya Haddad (November 9, 1936 – June 15, 2004) was a libretto translator and surtitler for the Metropolitan Opera in New York.\n\nHaddad was born in Canton, Ohio, on November 9, 1936, and grew up in Akron. She graduated from the Eastman School of Music at the University of Rochester in 1958. She subsequently worked in the classical music division of Columbia Records, and at \"The New York Times\" radio station WQXR. From 1960 until the early 1970s she worked at the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy. During that time, she also lived part-time in Rome where she worked as an interpreter. She acted as courier with the kidnappers of John Paul Getty III in 1973.\n\nHaddad was fluent in German, Italian and French. She began working at the Metropolitan Opera in 1994. was referred to in her obituary in \"The New York Times\" as \"one of the country's leading practitioners of her art\". She wrote surtitles or subtitles for the Washington National Opera, La Scala in Milan, and the Public Broadcasting Service's series \"Great Performances\". She joined the editorial staff of \"Opera News\" in 1998, and was a research associate for the magazine until her death in 2004. At the time of her death, she lived in The Bronx.\n\nBrian Kellow said of her in an obituary in \"Opera News\" that \"As a titlist, her standards were high: she took pains to avoid the cute, the coy, the anachronistic; her titles were as precise and elegant and clearly thought out as her own prose.\" William Romano, in an article partly based around documentation supplied by Haddad, said of her work that \"by extending the text's exposure in live performance by a fraction of a second, the titleist imperceptibly adjusts the viewer's engagement with the words'. He goes on to argue that\nTitling challenges titleists and the houses that employ them not only to translate but to make the best case for awkward and weak librettos. The brief, repetitious texts and credulity-straining plots of the bel canto repertory, with their attenuated melodic lines and spectacular runs, can pose more challenges to a titleist than do the complex texts of an opera by Strauss or Wagner. Titling, like any aspect of performance, is a dynamic technical skill, and a titleist may return to an opera in subsequent seasons, adjusting and refining both word choice and the technical aspects of delivery. However the titleist resolves these questions, the resulting version becomes the audience's live-time reading matter.\n\nOperas for which Haddad did the translation and surtitling in the course of her career include: Tchaikovsky's \"The Queen of Spades\" in 1995; Prokofiev's \"War and Peace\"; Verdi's \"Falstaff\" and \"I vespri siciliani\"; Richard Strauss's \"Capriccio\"; Rossini's \"La donna del lago\"; Mozart's \"Così fan tutte\" and \"Don Giovanni\"; Pergolesi's \"Lo frate 'nnamorato\" and Conrad Susa's \"The Dangerous Liaisons\".\n"}
{"id": "228535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228535", "title": "Stakeknife", "text": "Stakeknife\n\n\"Stakeknife\" is the code name of a high-level spy who successfully infiltrated the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) while working for the top secret Force Research Unit (FRU) of the British Army. Reports claim that Stakeknife worked for British intelligence for 25 years. Stakeknife has been accused of being a double agent who oversaw the murders of informers within the paramilitary organisation while working for the British. British officials launched Operation Kenova to investigate these claims of state involvement in kidnap, torture and murder of more than 50 individuals, leading to the arrest of Freddie Scappaticci in January 2018 on accusations that he is Stakeknife. Scappaticci has denied that he is the notorious spy.\n\n\"Stakeknife\" had his own dedicated handlers and agents, and it was suggested that he was important enough that MI5 set up an office dedicated solely to him. Rumours suggested that he was being paid at least £80,000 a year and had a bank account in Gibraltar.\n\nSerious allegations have emerged to the effect that the British government allowed up to 40 people to be killed via the IRA's Internal Security Unit or \"Nutting Squad\" to protect his cover. \n\nIn 1987, Sam McCrory, an Ulster Defence Association/\"Ulster Freedom Fighters\" member, killed the 66-year-old Francisco Notarantonio at his home in Ballymurphy in West Belfast. The UDA/UFF had discovered that a senior IRA member was working for the FRU. It has been alleged that FRU agent Brian Nelson gave Notarantonio's name to the UDA/UFF to protect the identity of the real spy.\n\nOn 11 May 2003, several newspapers named Freddie Scappaticci as Stakeknife. Scappaticci, born in Belfast to Italian parents, denied the claims and launched an unsuccessful legal action to have the British government state he was not their agent. He later left Northern Ireland and was rumoured to be living in Cassino, Italy. There were also reported sightings in Tenerife.\n\nA report in a February 2007 edition of the \"Belfast News Letter\" reported that a cassette recording allegedly of Scappaticci talking about the number of murders he was involved in via the \"Nutting Squad\", as well as his work as an Army agent, had been lodged with the PSNI in 2004 and subsequently passed to the Stevens Inquiry in 2005.\n\nThe former British Intelligence agent who worked in the FRU known as \"Martin Ingram\" has written a book titled \"Stakeknife\" since the original allegations came to light in which it says Scappaticci was the agent in question.\n\nIn October 2015 it was announced that Scappaticci was to be investigated by the Police Service of Northern Ireland over at least 24 murders. In June 2016 it was announced that this investigation would be carried out by Bedfordshire Police and would examine the possible involvement of members of the RUC, Army and MI5 in murders carried out by the IRA, and their knowledge of them through the information supplied via Stakeknife. Scappaticci was arrested in connection with Operation Kenova in January 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41647274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41647274", "title": "Sudeep filmography", "text": "Sudeep filmography\n\nSudeep is an Indian film actor and director who primarily works in the Kannada film industry. He has also worked in Telugu, Hindi and Tamil films.\n\n"}
{"id": "236175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236175", "title": "Vishnu Sharma", "text": "Vishnu Sharma\n\nVishnu Sharma (Sanskrit: विष्णुशर्मन् / विष्णुशर्मा) was an Indian scholar and author who is believed to have written the \"Panchatantra\" collection of fables. The exact period of the composition of the \"Panchatantra\" is uncertain, and estimates vary from 1200 BCE to 300 CE. Some scholars place him in the 3rd century BCE.\n\nPanchatantra is one of the most widely translated non-religious books in history. The \"Panchatantra\" was translated into Middle Persian/Pahlavi in 570 CE by Borzūya and into Arabic in 750 CE by Persian scholar Abdullah Ibn al-Muqaffa as \"Kalīlah wa Dimnah\" (). In Baghdad, the translation commissioned by Al-Mansur, the second Abbasid Caliph, is claimed to have become \"second only to the Qu'ran in popularity.\" \"As early as the eleventh century this work reached Europe, and before 1600 it existed in Greek, Latin, Spanish, Italian, German, English, Old Slavonic, Czech, and perhaps other Slavonic languages. Its range has extended from Java to Iceland.\" In France, \"\"at least eleven Panchatantra tales are included in the work of Jean de La Fontaine\".\"\n\nThe prelude to the \"Panchatantra\" identifies Vishnu Sharma as the author of the work. Since there is no other independent external evidence about him, \"it is impossible to say whether he was the historical author . . .or is himself a literary invention\". Based on analysis of various Indian recensions and the geographical features and animals described in the stories, Kashmir is suggested to be his birthplace by various scholars.\n\nThe prelude narrates the story of how Vishnu Sharma supposedly created the \"Panchatantra\". There was a king called Sudarshan who ruled a kingdom, whose capital was a city called Mahilaropya (महिलारोप्य), whose location on the current map of India is unknown. The king had three sons named Bahushakti, Ugrashakti and Anantashakti. Though the king himself was both a scholar and a powerful ruler, his sons were \"\"all dullards\".\" The king despaired of his three princes' inability to learn, and approached his ministers for counsel. They presented him with conflicting advice, but the words of one, called Sumati, rang true to the king. He said that the sciences, politics and diplomacy were limitless disciplines that took a lifetime to master formally. Instead of teaching the princes scriptures and texts, they should somehow be taught the wisdom inherent in them, and the aged scholar Vishnu Sharma was the man to do it.\n\nVishnu Sharma was invited to the court, where the king offered him a hundred land grants if he could teach the princes. Vishnu Sharma declined the promised award, saying he did not sell knowledge for money, but accepted the task of making the princes wise to the ways of politics and leadership within six months. Vishnu Sharma knew that he could never instruct these three students through conventional means. He had to employ a less orthodox way, and that was to tell a succession of animal fables – one weaving into another – that imparted to them the wisdom they required to succeed their father. Adapting stories that had been told for thousands of years in India, panchatantra was composed into an entertaining five part work to communicate the essence of diplomacy, relationships, politics and administration to the princes. These five discourses — titled \"The Loss of Friends\", \"The winning of friends\", \"Of Crows and Owls\", \"Loss of Gains\" and \"Imprudence\" — became the \"Panchatantra\", meaning the five (\"pancha\") treatises (\"tantra\").\n"}
{"id": "41225236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41225236", "title": "Winarti Partaningrat", "text": "Winarti Partaningrat\n\nWinarti Partaningrat (September 21, 1922 – May 8, 1978) was an early contributor to Indonesian librarianship, particularly the establishment of special libraries among government agencies.\n\nAfter receiving a medical degree in Indonesia, Partaningrat attended Columbia University where she received a Master’s degree in library science in 1958. From 1946 to 1951, she worked at the Foreign Broadcasting of Radio Republik Indonesia, followed by seven years with the Voice of America for United Nations Radio. She served as the Head of the Bureau of Documentation for the Council of Sciences of Indonesia and the Indonesian Institute of Sciences.\n\nPartaningrat was a leader in the creation of a special library networking system to allow information sharing among government departments. The organization also laid the foundations of library science within the fields of science, technology, biology, agriculture, medicine and humanities. By connecting these specialized libraries and implementing standardized practices, special libraries became pivotal in providing technical function and services within Indonesia. \n\n"}
{"id": "8533312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8533312", "title": "Zade Dirani", "text": "Zade Dirani\n\nZade Dirani (Arabic: زيد ديراني, born in 1980), is a Jordanian pianist and composer and UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador for the Middle East and North Africa, whose genre blending songs are inspired by Arabic, Latin, pop, and classical music.\nHe has performed before thousands around the world including Queen Elizabeth, Dalai Lama, Nelson Mandela, amongst others.\n\nHe has released four CDs, which reflect his studies of each culture while attending the National Music Conservatory in Amman and the Berklee College of Music in Boston. Audiences throughout the Middle East, Europe, and the United States have attended his performances held in various places. His albums have reached #3 on the US Billboard chart and is #1 on the Jordan charts. The CD for Zade’s latest epic project: One Night in Jordan debuted on Billboard at #2 on the New Age Chart, #5 on the Classical Crossover Chart, and #11 on the Overall Classical Chart. Zade’s accompanying DVD also debuted on Billboard’s Top DVD/Music Video Charts at #18. Zade has toured extensively throughout the U.S and other parts of the world. His wild popularity in Jordan has helped his albums consistently reach No. 1 on the Jordanian album charts.\n\nZade has been officially endorsed by YAMAHA pianos thus joining the very select artist roster of YAMAHA artists, playing and representing the brand's piano exclusively where ever he plays.\n\nIn 2006, Zade launched an ambitious project entitled \"Roads to You, celebration of One World\" in Washington, DC under the patronage of Queen Noor of Jordan.\n\nTitled “Roads to You : Celebration of One World,” Zade lead 40 musicians from 18 countries, in a project that showcased participants from war-torn regions coming together and working in an atmosphere of trust and team spirit. Musicians didn't only perform, but shared their talent and heritage with fellow tour members; participate in more than 100 cultural presentations at educational institutions and community/ civic functions in each city; with their host families and friends; and with their own families at home upon their return. Proceeds will support local charities and causes.\n\nThe concert tour featured compositions from Zade’s three recordings which include his latest CD, “Beautiful World” released May 2, inspired by his Middle Eastern heritage. His second CD, \"Roads to You\", was released in June 2004 in the United States featuring Arabic and Latin influences performed by the City of Prague Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir. One of the cuts from the CD, titled “Kingdom of Peace,” was featured at the 2006 Winter Olympics as the Japanese Female Figure Skating Team competed to this song. That song, and the “Roads To You” CD is the collective effort of more than one hundred musicians from different parts of the world, and was recorded in Miami, Beirut, Prague, and Los Angeles. “Roads to You”, remained on the Billboard Charts more than 20 weeks. His debut CD, self-titled Zade, was released in April 2003, and featured a host of guest musicians from the Middle East and the United States including Charlie Bisharat on Violin, Chris Chaney on Bass (Alanis Morrissette, Jane’s Addiction), Gabriel Gordon on Electric Guitar (Natalie Merchant), and Imane Houmsey on Kanoon (Fairouz, Julia Butros). The album remained on the Billboard Charts for 13 weeks.[2] The CD was supported with performances worldwide, and an extensive “house concert tour” in the U.S.\n\nFilmed at one of the oldest Roman Amphitheaters in the world in Amman, Jordan, One Night In Jordan: A Concert For Peace is a concert performance from Zade. Accompanied by musicians from over 40 nations, including London’s Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, and the London Voices. The album was released on February 9, 2010 by ZD Records and distributed by EMI. The concert DVD was released on March 9, 2010 by ZD Records and distributed by EMI. The concert was aired on PBS stations in 2010 and 2011.\n\nTo continue cross-cultural understanding through the arts, Zade has launched The Zade Foundation for International Peace and Understanding aimed at helping young musicians share with the world a deeper understanding of their cultures by offering them a unique opportunity to expand their roles from musicians to proactive peace builders and future community leaders.\n\nZade was invited by King Abdullah and Queen Rania of Jordan to join them on the official state visit to the United Kingdom where he performed before Queen Elizabeth and the British royal family in London. In May 2005, Zade performed at the Library of Congress in Washington DC in celebration of Jordan's National Day by invitation from the Jordanian Ambassador to the United States. He also was invited to perform at the World Economic Forum Extraordinaire 2003 in Jordan. Zade has graced the stage at a tribute to President Nelson Mandela organized by the United Nations Foundation and the Mosaic Foundation in Washington, DC. Other distinctive appearances include \"Exploring Jordan\" held at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History in Washington, DC.\n\nIn October 2004, Zade was awarded the American Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee's Distinguished Achievements Award for his work that promotes global understanding through the arts. He has also received The Jordanian Ministry of Education Award for the Arts and The Arab-American Music, Art, and Literature (AMAL) Award.\n\n"}
