{"id": "5690035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5690035", "title": "Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib al-Fihri", "text": "Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib al-Fihri\n\nAbd al-Rahman ibn Habib al-Fihri (died 755) was an Arab noble of the Oqbid or Fihrid family, and ruler of Ifriqiya (North Africa) from 745 through 755 AD.\n\nAbd al-Rahman ibn Habib was a great-grandson of Oqba ibn Nafi al-Fihri (Muslim Arab conqueror of North Africa). His family, the al-Fihris, were among the leading Arab families of the Maghreb.\n\nIn 740, Ibn Habib joined his father Habib ibn Abi Obeida in an Arab expedition across the water to Sicily in what was possibly the first attempt at a full-scale invasion of the island (rather than a mere raid). They had a successful landing and laid a brief siege to Syracuse, securing its submission and agreement to pay tribute. But the break-out of the Great Berber Revolt in the Maghreb forced the al-Fihris to cease their invasion of Sicily and ship their army quickly back to North Africa to help quell the uprising. The Arabs were defeated by the Berbers at the Battle of Bagdoura (near the Sebou) in 741. His father was killed in the field of battle, while Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib narrowly escaped and fled across the straits to Spain with the remnant of the Arab army.\n\nWhile in Spain, Ibn Habib involved himself in the conflicts which immediately erupted between the commanders of the defeated army (the Syrian regiments (\"junds\")), and the resident governor, Abd al-Malik ibn Qatan al-Fihri. When the Syrian commander Balj ibn Bishr al-Qushayri tortured and executed the elderly Ibn Qatan, a Fihrid relative, Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib openly broke with the Syrians and joined the Andalusian (\"baladi\") party. Ibn Habib participated in the Battle of Aqua Portora in August 740 and it was claimed by at least one chronicler (Ibn al-Khatam) that he sought out and fatally wounded Balj in the heat of battle (although the chronicler may have confused Ibn Habib with another Abd al-Rahman, Ibn al-Qama al-Lakhmi, the governor of Narbonne and commander of the Andalusians).\nIn the aftermath, Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib tried to put himself forward as a candidate to replace the governor, but gave up on these ambitions with the arrival of Abu al-Khattar ibn Dirar al-Kalbi as Andalusian governor in 743, who then set about pacifying the situation.\n\nSoon after, Ibn Habib left Spain and returned to Ifriqiya (although, apparently, he may have left his son, Yusuf, behind). Ibn Habib may have served briefly under the Kairouan governor, Handhala ibn Safwan al-Kalbi, in a variety of military capacities, including command of the Tunis garrison.\n\nIn late 744, in the turmoil following the death of the Umayyad caliph, Hisham, Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib assembled a small force in Tunis and declared himself emir of Ifriqiya. Although urged to quash the usurper, the Ifriqiyan governor Handhala ibn Safwan al-Kalbi decided it was best to avoid bloodshed and consented to return to Damascus in February 745, rather than put up a fight.\n\nNonetheless, on hearing of the governor's departure, Handhala ibn Safwan laid a curse on the usurper: \"Oh God, do not permit Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib to enjoy his usurped authority! Let his partisans derive no profit from this attempt, may they shed each other's blood! Send against them, O Lord, the most evil of all the men You have created!\" Handhala extended the curse to Ifriqiya itself, the land and its ungrateful people, invoking upon them famine, pestilence and war. As it turned out, save from some brief seasonal interruptions, Ifriqiya was indeed gripped by pestilence for the next seven years.\n\nAbd al-Rahman ibn Habib had come to power essentially as the figurehead of the local Arab high military caste, a group much despised and feared by the common population. Their appetites and aspirations had long been kept in check by the Umayyad governors. But with the connection with Damascus now cut, the high nobles fully expected to be allowed free rein by 'their' emir. But they were soon to be disappointed. Ibn Habib wanted a country to govern, and was not prepared to see it fragmented and handed over to the anarchic ways of a feudal nobility. Ibn Habib consequently faced the prospect of revolts whatever he did - should the nobles be let loose, the people would revolt; hold the reins tight, the nobles would turn against him. To assert himself Ibn Habib consequently turned to his greatest asset - his family, the Fihrids.\n\nNo sooner had Ibn Habib installed himself in Kairouan, then revolts by Arabs and Berbers, began erupting all over the country. Tunis was raised to revolt by Orwa ibn ez-Zobeir es-Sadefi, Tabinas by Ibn Attaf el-Azdi, Béja was taken by the Sanhaja Berber rebel Thabit al-Sanhaji, and many more. Ibn Habib patiently and ruthlessly crushed the revolts one by one.\n\nThe most serious threat came from Tripolitana, then governed by Ibn Habib's brother Ilyas ibn Habib al-Fihri. In 747, Ilyas tried to crack down on the fledgling Ibadites, a puritanical Kharijite sect, that was growing strong in the cities of Djerba and Tripoli and among the Berbers in the surrounding districts. The Ibadites, inspired by the success of their brethren in Hadramut and Oman, revolted under the leadership of their imam al-Harith, and seized control of much of Tripolitana (between Gabès and Sirte). But in 752, Ibn Habib dispatched an Ifriqiyan army and reconquered Tripolitana from the Ibadites, driving their remnants south into the Jebel Nafusa.\n\nIn Spain, Handhala's deputy Abu al-Khattar ibn Dirar al-Kalbi had been toppled in 745 and civil war broke out anew between the Syrian \"junds\" and the Andalusian Arabs. Ibn Habib intervened, dispatching an Ifriqiyan force to help restore order. In 747, Ibn Habib's kinsman (by patronymic record, his son), Yusuf ibn 'Abd al-Rahman al-Fihri, was put forward as a compromise candidate and installed as governor of al-Andalus.\n\nBut the western Maghreb - Morocco and eastern Algeria - remained out of his reach. Since the Berber Revolt of 740, the region had descended into tribal anarchy. It was fragmented and ruled autonomously by Berber tribes. The Masmuda Berber tribes established an independent state in 744, the Berghwata confederation, with their own 'prophet' and syncretist beliefs. Ibn Habib's attempts to reimpose his rule there failed.\n\nIn 752, perhaps feeling confident in the possession of his lands for the first time, Ibn Habib transported an Ifriqiyan army to Sicily, perhaps hoping to resume the invasion his father had interrupted back in 740. But finding the defences too strong, the expedition limited itself to raiding the coasts and returned to North Africa.\n\nIbn Habib also tried to repair his relations with Damascus. After repeated entreaties, he finally managed to secure confirmation in his post from the Umayyad Caliph Marwan II. Marwan II did not really have any options, for at that time, his resources were engaged in fending off the Abbasid Revolution.\n\nEgypt fell to the Abbasids in the middle of 750 and the last Umayyad caliph Marwan II was caught and killed. Hoping the chaos in the east would allow him to carve out an independent state for himself, Ifriqiyan governor Ibn Habib at first sought an understanding with the Abbasids but was soon disappointed by Abbasid demands for submission. Ibn Habib then decided to revolt against the Abbasids and dropped the name of the Abbasid caliph from the Friday prayers, publicly burnt the official robes of state dispatched by the Abbasids and invited the fleeing members of the Umayyad clan to take refuge in his dominions. Among his guests was the Umayyad prince, Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu’awiya ibn Hisham, a grandson of Caliph Hisham. Two other notables, sons of the caliph Walid II, were appointed to high posts, one of them made \"qadi\" of Kairouan. His own brother, Ilyas ibn Habib, married into the Umayyad family.\n\nBut not long after their arrival, Ibn Habib changed his mind, probably fearing the prominent Umayyad exiles might serve as a focal point for discontented Arab nobles and challenge his own usurped power. Ibn Habib expressed sufficient hostility to prompt the fugitive Umayyad prince to flee into the hinterlands of Kabylie and hide among the Nafza Berbers (his mother's family). In 755, Abd al-Rahman left in his African hideout and crossed the straits to Spain and went on to depose Yusuf al-Fihri and found the Umayyad emirate of Córdoba in 756.\n\nIn 755, Ibn Habib discovered what he thought was a plot engineered by the Umayyad \"qadi\", and ordered the arrest and execution of the plotters. But he didn't count on the revenge of his sister-in-law, the Umayyad wife of his brother Ilyas. Later that year, urged on by his wife, Ilyas assassinated his brother Abd al-Rahman ibn Habib in his personal quarters, plunging a dagger into his back while he played with his children.\n\nIlyas ibn Habib proceeded to assume power for himself, but was himself deposed and killed by the end of the year by Abd al-Rahman's son, Habib ibn Abd al-Rahman al-Fihri.\n\nIn 757, the Warfajuma Berbers and their Sufrite allies swept up from southern Tunisia and captured Kairouan, killing Habib and putting an end to the Fihrid dynasty. In the meantime, the Ibadites that Ibn Habib had driven out of Tripoli came back. Rallied by their imam Abu al-Khattab al-Ma'afiri in Jebel Nefusa, the Ibadites recaptured Tripoli and went on to take Kairouan from the Berbers in 758, establishing a Kharijite imamate over Ifriqiya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11437929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11437929", "title": "Abiathar and Sidonia", "text": "Abiathar and Sidonia\n\nAbiathar and Sidonia were a legendary Jewish priest of Mtskheta and his daughter. Abiathar is said to have been the first person Saint Nino converted to Christianity. An apocryphal account of the life and miracles of Saint Nino is attributed to them. They are regarded as saints in the church in Georgia, and are mentioned in Bessarion's \"The Saints of Georgia\" and the \"Menologium der Orthodox-Katholischen Kirche des Morgenlandes\".\n\nIt is said that after the death of Christ his Robe was carried to Mtskheta by Elioz, Sidonia's brother. After having listened to her brother's grief story about the death of Christ she \"clutched the Robe to her breast and immediately gave up her spirit\". She was buried with the Saint Robe in her embrace. And Abiathar and her daughter Sidonia are also considered to be the first Georgian writers. A lot of pseudo-epigraphical texts that tell about spreading of Christianity in Georgia are ascribed to them.\n\nTheir feast day is celebrated on October 1 in Georgia.\n\nThe name \"Abiathar\" is derived from a Biblical character, a priest of the Jerusalem Temple in the time of King David.\n\n"}
{"id": "1719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719", "title": "Ambrosius Aurelianus", "text": "Ambrosius Aurelianus\n\nAmbrosius Aurelianus (; Anglicised as Ambrose Aurelian and called Aurelius Ambrosius in the \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" and elsewhere) was a war leader of the Romano-British who won an important battle against the Anglo-Saxons in the 5th century, according to Gildas. He also appeared independently in the legends of the Britons, beginning with the 9th-century \"Historia Brittonum\". Eventually he was transformed into the uncle of King Arthur, the brother of Arthur's father Uther Pendragon, and predeceases them both.\n\nDue to Gildas' description of him, Ambrosius is one of the figures called the Last of the Romans.\n\nAmbrosius Aurelianus is one of the few people that Gildas identifies by name in his sermon \"De Excidio et Conquestu Britanniae\", and the only one named from the 5th century. \"De Excidio\" is considered the oldest extant British document about the so-called Arthurian period of Sub-Roman Britain. Following the destructive assault of the Saxons, the survivors gather together under the leadership of Ambrosius, who is described as:\n\nSome basic information on Ambrosius can be deduced from the brief passage: Ambrosius was possibly of high birth and very likely a Christian (Gildas says that he won his battles \"with God's help\"). Ambrosius' parents were slain by the Saxons and he was among the few survivors of their initial invasion.\n\nAccording to Gildas, Ambrosius organised the survivors into an armed force and achieved the first military victory over the Saxon invaders. However, this victory was not decisive: \"Sometimes the Saxons and sometimes the citizens [meaning the Romano-British inhabitants] were victorious.\"\n\nTwo points in Gildas' description have attracted much scholarly commentary. The first is what Gildas meant by saying Ambrosius' family \"had worn the purple\". Roman emperors and male Patricians wore clothes with a purple band to denote their class so the reference to purple may be to an aristocratic heritage. Roman military tribunes (\"tribuni militum\"), senior officers in Roman legions, wore a similar purple band so the reference may be to a family background of military leadership. The tradition was old as the togas and pallia of already ancient senators and tribunes were trimmed with the purple band. In the church \"the purple\" is a euphemism for blood and therefore \"wearing the purple\" may be a reference to martyrdom or a bishop's robe. In addition, in the later Roman Empire both Roman consuls and governors of consular rank also wore clothes with a purple fringe. The \"Notitia Dignitatum\", a Roman catalogue of official posts, lists four or five provincial governors in Roman Britain and two of them were of consular rank. One was the governor of Maxima Caesariensis and the other that of Valentia. The parent who wore the purple may well have been one of these governors, whose names were not recorded.\n\nIt has been suggested by historian Alex Woolf that Ambrosius may have been related to the 5th century Romano-British usurpers Marcus or Gratian – Woolf expresses a preference based on nomenclature for Marcus. Frank D. Reno, an Arthurian scholar, has instead argued that the name \"Aurelianus\" indicates the possible descent of Ambrosius from the Roman emperor Lucius Domitius Aurelianus (Aurelian, reigned 270–275). Aurelian's military campaigns included the conquest of the Gallic Empire. N. J. Higham suggests that Ambrosius may have been distantly related to imperial families of the late Roman Empire, such as the Theodosian dynasty. Branches of this particular dynasty were known to be active in western Roman provinces like Hispania.\n\nMike Ashley instead focuses on the name \"Ambrosius\". In his view, it seems to suggest connection to Saint Ambrosius, a fourth-century Bishop of Milan, who also served as consular governor in areas of Roman Italy. The father of the Bishop is sometimes claimed to be a fourth century Praetorian prefect of Gaul named Aurelius Ambrosius, whose areas included Britain, though some modern scholars doubt that Saint Ambrosius was related to this man (instead identifying his father with an official named Uranius mentioned in an extract from the Theodosian Code). Ashley suggests that Ambrosius Aurelianus was related to the two Aurelii Ambrosii. Tim Venning points out that the name \"Aurelianus\" could be the result of a Roman adoption. When a boy was adopted into a new gens (clan), he received the family names of his new family, plus an additional cognomen indicating his descent from his original gens/family. The additional cognomen often had the form \"-anus\". When Gaius Octavius from gens Octavia was adopted into the Julii Caesares family, his new name became Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus. In this case, Ambrosius may have been a member of gens Aurelia who was adopted by another gens/family. His original name Aurelius became Aurelianus.\n\nThe second question is the meaning of the word \"avita\": Gildas could have meant \"ancestors\", or intended it to mean more specifically \"grandfather\" – thus indicating Ambrosius lived about a generation before the Battle of Badon. Lack of information prevents sure answers to these questions.\n\nN. J. Higham wrote a book on Gildas and the literary tropes that he used. He has suggested that Gildas may have had considerable motive for drawing attention to Ambrosius. He was not attempting to write a historical biography of the man, according to Higham, but setting him as an example to his contemporaries. It was essential to the philosophy of Gildas that Briton leaders who achieved victory over the barbarians were only able to do so because of divine aid. And only those who had superior Christian virtues were deserving of this aid. Ambrosius Aurelianus was apparently known for at least one such victory over the barbarians. In order to fit him in his worldview, Gildas was almost required to feature the former warrior as a man of exceptional virtues and obedience to God. He was made to fit Gildas' version of a model leader.\n\nHigham also suggests that the Roman lineage of Ambrosius was highlighted for a reason. Gildas was apparently intentionally connecting him with the legitimate authority and military virtues of the Romans. He was also contrasting him with the subsequent Briton rulers whose reigns lacked in such legitimacy.\n\nGildas is a primary source for the Battle of Badon, yet he never mentions the names of the combatants. Therefore, we cannot know if Ambrosius Aurelianus or his successors took part in the battle. The names of the Saxon leaders in the battle are also not recorded.\n\nThe identities of Ambrosius' descendants are unknown, since Gildas never identifies them by name. It is safe to assume that they were Gildas' contemporaries and known to the author. Higham suggests that they were prominent figures of the time. Their lineage and identities were probably sufficiently familiar to his intended audience that they did not have to be named. The work portrays Ambrosius' descendants as inferior to their ancestor as part of his criticism on rulers of his time, according to Higham. Those criticized were likely aware that the vitriol was intended for them, but probably would not challenge a work offering such a glowing report of their illustrious ancestor.\n\nMike Ashley suggests that the descendants of Ambrosius could include other people named by Gildas. He favors the inclusion in this category of one Aurelius Caninus (\"Aurelius the little dog\" or \"Aurelius the whelp\"), whom Gildas accuses of parricide, fornication, adultery, and warmongering. His name \"Aurelius\" suggests Romano-British descent. The insulting nickname \"Caninus\" was probably invented by Gildas himself, who similarly insults other contemporary rulers. Due to the name used by Gildas, there are theories that this ruler was actually named Conan/Cynan/Kenan. Some identify him with Cynan Garwyn, a 6th-century King of Powys, though it is uncertain if he was a contemporary of Gildas or lived one or two generations following him. Another theory is that this ruler did not reign in Britain but in Brittany. Caninus, in this view, might be Conomor (\"Great Dog\"). Conomor is considered a likelier contemporary of Gildas. Conomor was likely from Domnonée, an area of Brittany controlled by British immigrants from Dumnonia. He might be remembered in British legend as Mark of Cornwall.\n\nGildas primarily features the Saxons as barbarian raiders; their invasions involved a slow and difficult process of military conquest. By AD 500, possibly the time described by Gildas, Anglo-Saxons controlled the Isle of Wight, Kent, Lincolnshire, Norfolk, Suffolk, and coastal areas of Northumberland and Yorkshire. The rest of the former Roman Britain was still under the control of the local Britons. Gildas also mentions depopulation of cities and this probably reflects historical facts. Londinium, once a major city, was completely abandoned during the 5th century.\n\nBede follows Gildas' account of Ambrosius in his \"Ecclesiastical History of the English People\", but in his \"Chronica Majora\" he dates Ambrosius' victory to the reign of the Emperor Zeno (474–491).\n\nBede's treatment of the 5th century history of Great Britain is not particularly valuable as a source. Until about the year 418, Bede could choose between several historical sources and often followed the writings of Orosius. Following the end of Orosius' history, Bede apparently lacked other available sources and relied extensively on Gildas. Entries from this period tend to be close paraphrases of Gildas' account with mostly stylistic changes. Bede's account of Ambrosius Aurelianus has been translated as following:\n\nBede does not mention the descendants of Ambrosius Aurelianus, nor their supposed degeneracy.\n\nThe \"Historia Brittonum\", attributed to Nennius, preserves several snippets of lore about Ambrosius. Despite the traditional attribution, the authorship of the work and the period of its writing are open questions for modern historians. There are several extant manuscript versions of the work, varying in details. The most important ones have been dated to between the 9th and the 11th century. Some modern scholars think it unlikely that the work was composed by a single writer or compiler, suggesting that it may have taken centuries to reach its final form, though this theory is not conclusive.\n\nIn Chapter 31, we are told that Vortigern ruled in fear of Ambrosius. This is the first mention of Ambrosius in the work. According to Frank D. Reno, this would indicate that Ambrosius' influence was formidable, since Vortigern considered him more of a threat than northern invaders and attempts to restore Roman rule in Britain. The chapter relates events following the end of Roman rule in Britain and preceding Vortigern's alliance with the Saxons.\n\nThe most significant appearance of Ambrosius is the story about Ambrosius, Vortigern, and the two dragons beneath Dinas Emrys, \"Fortress of Ambrosius\" in Chapters 40–42. In this account, Ambrosius is still an adolescent but has supernatural powers. He intimidates Vortigern and the royal magicians. When it is revealed that Ambrosius is the son of a Roman consul, Vortigern is convinced to cede to the younger man the castle of Dinas Emrys and all the kingdoms in the western part of Britain. Vortigern then retreats to the north, in an area called Gwynessi. This story was later retold with more detail by Geoffrey of Monmouth in his fictionalized \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", conflating the personage of Ambrosius with the Welsh tradition of Myrddin the visionary, known for oracular utterances that foretold the coming victories of the native Celtic inhabitants of Britain over the Saxons and the Normans. Geoffrey also introduces him into the \"Historia\" under the name Aurelius Ambrosius as one of three sons of Constantine III, along with Constans II and Uther Pendragon.\n\nIn Chapter 48, Ambrosius Aurelianus is described as \"king among all the kings of the British nation\". The chapter records that Pascent, the son of Vortigern, was granted rule over the regions of Buellt and Gwrtheyrnion by Ambrosius. Finally, in Chapter 66, various events are dated from a Battle of Guoloph (often identified with Wallop, ESE of Amesbury near Salisbury), which is said to have been between Ambrosius and Vitolinus. The author dates this battle as taking place 12 years from the reign of Vortigern.\n\nIt is not clear how these various traditions about Ambrosius relate to each other, or whether they come from the same tradition; it is very possible that these references are to different men with the same name. Frank D. Reno points out that the works call all these men \"Ambrosius\"/\"Emrys\". The cognomen \"Aurelianus\" is never used. The \"Historia Brittonum\" dates the battle of Guoloph to \"the twelfth year of Vortigern\", by which the year 437 seems to be meant. This is perhaps a generation before the battle that Gildas says was commanded by Ambrosius Aurelianus.\n\nThe text never identifies who Ambrosius's father is, just gives his title as a Roman consul. When an adolescent Ambrosius speaks of his father, there is no suggestion that this father is deceased. The boy is not identified as an orphan. The exact age of Ambrosius is not given in his one encounter with Vortigern. Frank D. Reno suggests that he might be as young as 13 years old, barely a teenager.\n\nIt is impossible to know to what degree Ambrosius actually wielded political power, and over what area. Ambrosius and Vortigern are shown as being in conflict in the \"Historia Brittonum\", and some historians have suspected that this preserves a historical core of the existence of two parties in opposition to one another, one headed by Ambrosius and the other by Vortigern. J. N. L. Myres built upon this suspicion and speculated that belief in Pelagianism reflected an actively provincial outlook in Britain and that Vortigern represented the Pelagian party, while Ambrosius led the Catholic one. Subsequent historians accepted Myers' speculation as fact, creating a narrative of events in 5th century Britain with various degrees of elaborate detail. Yet a simpler alternative interpretation of the conflict between these two figures is that the \"Historia Brittonum\" is preserving traditions hostile to the purported descendants of Vortigern, who at this time were a ruling house in Powys. This interpretation is supported by the negative character of all of the stories retold about Vortigern in the \"Historia Brittonum\", which include his alleged practice of incest.\n\nThe identity is somewhat obscure of Ambrosius' last mentioned enemy Vitalinus. Various manuscripts of the \"Historia\" and translations render his name \"Guitolin\", \"Guitolini\", \"Guitholini\", and \"Vitalinus\". He is mentioned in chapter 49 as one of four sons of Gloiu and co-founder of the city of Gloucester. No other background information is given. There are theories that Gloiu is also the father of Vortigern, but the genealogy is obscure and no supporting primary text can be found. There have been further attempts to identify Vitalinus with a pro-Vortigern or anti-Roman faction in Britain, opposed to the rise of the Romano-British Ambrosius. However, this is rendered problematic since Vitalinus seems to also have a Romano-British name. The traditional view of pro-Roman and pro-Briton factions active in this period might oversimplify a more complex situation.\n\nAmbrosius appears briefly in the \"Gesta Regum Anglorum\" (\"Deeds of the Kings of the English\") by William of Malmesbury. Despite its name, the work attempted to reconstruct British history in general by drawing together the varying accounts of Gildas, Bede, Nennius, and various chroniclers. The work features Ambrosius as the apparent employer of Arthur. The relative passage has been translated as following:\n\nWilliam swiftly shifts attention from Ambrosius to Arthur, and proceeds to narrate Arthur's supposed victory in the Battle of Badon. The narrative is probably the first to connect Ambrosius and Arthur. William had to reconcile the accounts of Gildas and Bede who implied that Ambrosius was connected to the battle, and that of Nennius which clearly stated that it was Arthur who was connected to the battle. He solved the apparent discrepancy by connecting both of them to it. Ambrosius as the king of the Britons and Arthur as his most prominent general and true victor of the battle.\n\nAmbrosius Aurelianus appears in later pseudo-chronicle tradition beginning with Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" with the slightly garbled name \"Aurelius Ambrosius\", now presented as son of a King Constantine. King Constantine's eldest son Constans is murdered at Vortigern's instigation, and the two remaining sons (Ambrosius and Uther, still very young) are quickly hustled into exile in Brittany. (This does not fit with Gildas' account, in which Ambrosius' family perished in the turmoil of the Saxon uprisings.) Later, the two brothers return from exile with a large army when Vortigern's power has faded. They destroy Vortigern and become friends with Merlin. They go on to defeat the Saxon leader Hengist in two battles at Maisbeli (probably Ballifield, near Sheffield) and Cunengeburg. Hengist is executed and Ambrosius becomes king of Britain. However, he is poisoned by his enemies, and Uther succeeds him. The text identifies the poisoner as Eopa.\n\nJudgements tend to vary wildly of the value of Geoffrey as both a historian and a literary storyteller. He has been praised for giving us detailed information about an otherwise obscure period and possibly preserving information from lost sources, and condemned for an excessive use of artistic license and possibly inventing stories wholecloth. \n\nGeoffrey changed the word \"Aurelianus\" to \"Aurelius\", which is the name of a Roman gens. Geoffrey retains the story of Emrys and the dragons from Nennius, but identifies the figure with Merlin. Merlin is Geoffrey's version of a historical figure known as Myrddin Wyllt. Myrddin is only mentioned once in the \"Annales Cambriae\", at an entry dated to 573. The name of Merlin is given in Latin as Ambrosius Merlinus. \"Merlinus\" may have been intended as the agnomen of a Roman or Romano-British individual like Ambrosius.\n\nElements of Ambrosius Aurelianus, the traditional warrior king, are used by Geoffrey for other characters. Ambrosius' supposed supernatural powers are passed to Merlin. Geoffrey's Aurelius Ambrosius rises to the throne but dies early, passing the throne to a previously unknown brother called Uther Pendragon. The role of warrior king is shared by Uther and his son Arthur.\n\nGeoffrey also uses the character Gloiu, father of Vitalinus/Vitolinus, derived from Nennius. He names this character as a son of Claudius and appointed by his father as Duke of the Welsh. His predecessor as Duke is called Arvirargus. Assuming that Claudius and Arvirargus are supposed to be contemporaries, then this Claudius is the Roman emperor Claudius I (reigned 41–54). It seems unlikely that Claudius would have living grandsons in the 5th century, four centuries following his death. Reno suggests that Claudius II (reigned 268–270) would be a more likely \"Claudius\" to have living descendants in the 5th century.\n\nGeoffrey for the first time gives a genealogy of Ambrosius. He is supposedly a paternal nephew of Aldroenus, King of Brittany, son of Constantine and an unnamed Briton noblewoman, adoptive grandson (on his mother's side) of Guthelinus/Vitalinus, Bishop of London, younger brother of Constans and older brother of Uther Pendragon. Ambrosius and Uther are supposedly raised by their adoptive maternal grandfather Guthelinus/Vitalinus. It is not explicitly covered in Geoffrey's narrative, but this genealogy makes Constantine and his children descendants of Conan Meriadoc, legendary founder of the line of Kings of Brittany. Conan is also featured in the \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", where he is appointed king by Roman emperor Magnus Maximus (reigned 383–388).\n\nConstantine's reign is placed by Geoffrey as following the Groans of the Britons mentioned by Gildas. Constantine is reported killed by a Pict and his reign is followed by a brief succession crisis. Candidates for the throne included all three sons of Constantine, but there were problems for their eventual rise to the throne. Constans was a monk, and Ambrosius and Uther were underage and still in their cradle. The crisis is resolved when Vortigern places Constans on the throne, and then serves as his chief adviser and power behind the throne. When Constans is killed by the Picts serving as bodyguards of Vortigern, Vortigern feigns anguish and has the killers executed. Ambrosius is still underage and Vortigern rises to the throne.\n\nThe chronology offered by Geoffrey for the early life of Ambrosius contradicts Gildas and Nennius, and is also internally inconsistent. The Groans of the Britons involves an appeal by the Britons to Roman consul \"Agitius\". This person has been identified with Flavius Aetius (d. 454), magister militum (\"master of soldiers\") of the Western Roman Empire and consul of the year 446. The Groans are generally dated to the 440s and 450s, preceding the death of Aetius. If Geoffrey's Constantine rose to the throne immediately following the Groans, this would place his reign in this period. Geoffrey gives a 10-year reign for Constantine and his marriage lasts just as long. However the eldest son Constans is clearly older than 10 years by the time his father dies. He is already an adult candidate of the throne and has had time to follow a monastic career. Even assuming there is a time gap between the death of Constantine and the adulthood of Constans, his younger brothers \nhave not aged at all in the narrative.\nGeoffrey's narrative has an underage Ambrosius, if not a literal infant, in the 460s. Accounts deriving from Gildas and Nennius place Ambrosius in the prime of his life in the same decade. Most telling is that Geoffrey has Vortigern rising to the throne in the 460s. Nennius places the rise of Vortigern in the year 425, and Vortigern is entirely absent in chronologies of the 460s. Suggesting that he was deceased by that time.\n\nGeoffrey's narrative includes as a major character Hengist, as leader of the Saxons. He is featured as the father of Queen Rowena and father-in-law of Vortigern. Other Saxon characters in the narrative tend to receive less attention by the writer, but their names tend to correspond to Anglo-Saxons known from other sources. Henginst's supposed son Octa is apparently Octa of Kent, a 6th-century ruler variously connected to Hengist as a son or descendant. The other son, Ebissa, is more difficult to identify. He might correspond to kinsmen of Hengist variously identified as \"Ossa\", \"Oisc\", and \"Aesc\". A minor Saxon character called \"Cherdic\" is probably Cerdic of Wessex, though elsewhere Geoffrey calls the same king \"Cheldric\". He actually may appear under three different names in the narrative, since Geoffrey elsewhere calls the interpreter of Hengist \"Ceretic\", a variant of the same name.\n\nGeoffrey, in the last chapters featuring Vortigern, has the king served by magicians. This detail derives from Nennius, though Nennius was talking about Vortigern's \"wise men\". They may not have been magic users but advisers. Vortigern's encounter with Emrys/Merlin takes place in this part of the narrative. Merlin warns Vortigern that Ambrosius and Uther have already sailed for Britain and are soon to arrive, apparently to claim his throne. Ambrosius soon arrives at the head of the army and is crowned king. He besieges Vortigern at the castle of \"Genoreu\", which is identified with Nennius' \"Cair Guorthigirn\" (\"Fort Vortigern\") and the hillfort at Little Doward. Ambrosius burns the castle down and Vortigern dies with it.\n\nHaving killed Vortigern, Ambrosius next turns his attention to Hengist. Despite the fact that no earlier military actions of Ambrosius are recorded, the Saxons have already heard of his bravery and battle prowess. They immediately retreat beyond the Humber. Hengist soon amasses a massive army to face Ambrosius. His army counts 200,000 men and Ambrosius' only 10,000 men. He marches south and the first battle between the two armies takes place in Maisbeli, where Ambrosius emerges the victor. It is unclear what location Geoffrey had in mind. Maisbeli translates to \"the field of Beli\", and could be related to the Beli Mawr of Welsh legend and/or the Celtic god Belenus. Alternatively it could be a field where the Beltane festival was celebrated. Geoffrey could derive the name from a similar-sounding toponym. For example, Meicen of the Hen Ogledd (\"Old North\"), traditionally identified with Hatfield.\n\nFollowing his defeat, Hengist retreats towards Cunungeburg. Geoffrey probably had in mind Conisbrough, not far from Hatfield. Ambrosius leads his army against the new position of the Saxons. The second battle is more evenly fought, and Hengist has a chance to achieve victory. However, Ambrosius receives reinforcements from Brittany and the tide of the battle turns in favor of the Britons. Hengist himself is captured by his old enemy Eldol, Consul of Gloucester and decapitated. Soon after the battle, the surviving Saxon leaders Octa and Eosa submit themselves to Ambrosius' rule. He pardons them and grants them an area near Scotland. The area is not named, but Geoffrey could be basing this on Bernicia, a real Ango-Saxon kingdom covering areas in the modern borders of Scotland and England.\n\nGeoffrey closely connects the deaths of Vortigern and Hengist, which are elsewhere poorly recorded. Vortigern historically died in the 450s, and various dates for the death of Hengist have been proposed, between the 450s and the 480s. Octa of Kent, the supposed son and heir of Hengist, was still alive in the 6th century and seems to belong to a later historical era than his father. The ruling family of the Kingdom of Kent were called the Oiscingas, a term identifying them as descendants of Oisc of Kent, not of Hengist. In effect, none of them was likely a literal son of Hengist and their relation to Hengist may have been a later invention. Geoffrey did not invent the connection, but his sources here were likely legendary in nature.\n\nFollowing his victories and the end of the wars, Ambrosius organizes the burial of killed nobles at Kaercaradduc. Geoffrey identifies this otherwise unknown location with Caer-Caradog (Salisbury). Ambrosius wants a permanent memorial for the slain and assigns the task to Merlin. The result is the so-called Giants' Ring. Its location in the vicinity of Salisbury has led to its identification with Stonehenge, though Geoffrey never uses that term. Stonehenge is closer to Amesbury than Salisbury. The ring formation of the monument could equally apply to Avebury, the largest stone circle in Europe.\n\nIn Welsh legend and texts, Ambrosius appears as \"Emrys Wledig\" (Emperor Ambrose). The term \"Wledig\" is a title used by senior royal and military commanders who have achieved notable success. The term is mostly used for famous figures such as Cunedda, though a few obscure figures have been given the title.\n\nIn Robert de Boron's \"Merlin\" he is called simply \"Pendragon\" and his younger brother is named \"Uter\", which he changes to \"Uterpendragon\" after the death of the elder sibling. This is probably a confusion that entered oral tradition from Wace's \"Roman de Brut\". Wace usually only refers to \"li roi\" (\"the king\") without naming him, and someone has taken an early mention of Uther's epithet \"Pendragon\" as the name of his brother.\n\nLéon Fleuriot has suggested Ambrosius is identical to Riothamus, a Brythonic leader who fought a major battle against the Goths in France around the year 470. Fleuriot argues that Ambrosius led the Britons in the battle, in which he was defeated and forced to retreat to Burgundy. Fleuriot proposed that he then returned to Britain to continue the war against the Saxons.\n\nIt has been suggested that the place-name Amesbury in Wiltshire might preserve the name of Ambrosius, and that perhaps Amesbury was the seat of his power base in the later fifth century. Scholars such as Shimon Applebaum have found a number of place names through the Midland dialect regions of Britain that incorporate the \"ambre-\" element; examples include Ombersley in Worcestershire, Ambrosden in Oxfordshire, Amberley in Herefordshire, Amberley in Gloucestershire, and Amberley in West Sussex. These scholars have claimed that this element represents an Old English word \"amor\", the name of a woodland bird. However, Amesbury in Wiltshire is in a different dialect region and does not easily fit into the pattern of the Midland dialect place names.\n\nThe novel \"Coalescent\" by Stephen Baxter depicts Aurelianus as a general to Artorius, Briton and basis for the legend of King Arthur. In Baxter's novel, Aurelianus is a minor character who interacts with the book's main Roman-era protagonist, Regina, founder of a (literally) underground matriarchal society. In the text, he is credited with winning the battle of Mount Badon.\n\nIn Marion Zimmer Bradley's \"The Mists of Avalon\", Aurelianus is depicted as the aging High King of Britain, a \"too-ambitious\" son of a Western Roman Emperor. His sister's son is Uther Pendragon, but Uther is described as not having any Roman blood. Aurelianus is unable to gather the leadership of the native Celts, who refuse to follow any but their own race.\n\nIn Alfred Duggan's \"Conscience of the King\", a historical novel about Cerdic, founder of the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Wessex, Ambrosius Aurelianus is a Romano-British general who rose independently to military power, forming alliances with various British kings and setting out to drive the invading Saxons from Britain. Cerdic, who is of both Germanic and British descent and raised as a Roman citizen, served in his army as a young man. In the novel Ambrosius is a separate character from Arthur, or Artorius, who appears much later as a foe of Cerdic.\n\nIn Stephen R. Lawhead's \"Pendragon Cycle\", Aurelianus (most often referred to as \"Aurelius\") figures prominently, along with his brother Uther, in the second book of the series, \"Merlin\". He is poisoned soon after becoming High King of Britain, and Uther succeeds him. Lawhead alters the standard Arthurian story somewhat, in that he has Aurelius marry Igraine and become the true father of King Arthur (Uther does marry his brother's widow, though).\n\nIn Valerio Massimo Manfredi's \"The Last Legion\", Aurelianus (here called \"Aurelianus Ambrosius Ventidius\") is a major character and is shown as one of the last loyal Romans, going to enormous lengths for his boy emperor Romulus Augustus, whose power has been wrested by the barbarian Odoacer. In this story, Romulus Augustus marries Igraine, and King Arthur is their son, and the sword of Julius Caesar becomes the legendary Excalibur in Britain. In the 2007 film version of the novel, he is played by Colin Firth and his name becomes \"Aurelianus Caius Antonius\". In both he is called \"Aurelius\" for short.\n\nMary Stewart's \"The Crystal Cave\" follows Geoffrey of Monmouth in calling him Aurelius Ambrosius and portrays him as the father of Merlin, the elder brother of Uther (hence uncle of Arthur), an initiate of Mithras, and generally admired by everyone except the Saxons. Much of the book is set at his court in Brittany or during the campaign to retake his throne from Vortigern. Later books in the series show that Merlin's attitude toward Arthur is influenced by his belief that Arthur is a reincarnation of Ambrosius, who is seen through Merlin's eyes as a model of good kingship.\n\nIn Rosemary Sutcliff's \"The Lantern Bearers\" Prince Ambrosius Aurelianus of Arfon drives out the Saxons by training his British army with Roman techniques and making effective use of cavalry. By the end of the novel, the elite cavalry wing is led by a dashing young warrior prince named Artos, whom Sutcliff postulates to be the real Arthur.\n\nIn Parke Godwin's \"Firelord\", Ambrosius is the elderly tribune of the diminished, dispirited and politically fractured Legio VI Victrix garrisoning Hadrian's Wall. Near his death, he names Artorius Pendragon (Arthur) as his successor, encourages him to convert the legion to alae (heavy cavalry) and allows the legionnaires to renounce their loyalty to Rome and take personal oaths of fealty to Artorius in order to help unify Brittania politically and to create a military force with the ability to quickly redeploy to meet differing threats.\n\nIn Jack Whyte's \"Camulod Chronicles\", Ambrosius Aurelianus is the half-brother of Caius Merlyn Britannicus (Merlin) and helps him lead the people of Camulod (Camelot).\n\nIn \"Stargate SG-1\", Ambrosius and Arthur are one and the same. Merlin was an Ancient, fleeing from Atlantis and later Ascends, then comes back in order to build the Sangraal, or Holy Grail, to defeat the Ori. Daniel Jackson also comments that it would mean that Ambrosius was 74 at the Battle of Mount Badon.\n\n"}
{"id": "33689754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33689754", "title": "Amirdovlat of Amasia", "text": "Amirdovlat of Amasia\n\nAmirdovlat Amasiatsi (; -1496), also called Amirdovlat of Amasia, was a 15th-century Armenian physician and writer. He wrote several works on medicine and science, some aimed at professional audiences and some at ordinary people. All his works were written in Middle Armenian, making them accessible to ordinary readers and not just to scholars.\n\nAmirdovlat was born in Amasia around 1420. He travelled extensively. He wrote the majority of his works in Constantinople, where he was chief physician to Mehmed II.\n\nHe died in Amasia or Bursa on December 8, 1496.\n\nIn Amirdovlat's biography, Vardanyan gives the following chronology of his life:\n\nBetween 1420-30: born in Amasia\n\n1450's: Attended Armenian schools in Amatsia and Sebastia. Wandered as a travelling physician in Asia and Iran collecting plant samples\n\nEnd of 1450s: Moved to Constantinople by sea. Further studies of medicinal arts, natural sciences and philosophy.\n\n1460s: Selected as a chief physician to Mehmed II, and received an honorary title of Chief Physician-Ophthalmologist. Afterwards he had ten years of exile and wanderings around Balkan countries.\n\n1470s: Returned to Constantinople, regained his position of a chief physician to Mehmed II, enjoying his confidence until the ruler's death in 1481.\n\n1480s: Returned to his motherland upon the invitation of the son of Mehmed II, Ahmed, who became a ruler of Armasia.\n\n1490: Journeyed to the city of Bursa for treatment with mineral waters.\n\n1496, December 8: Died in Amatsia (though other sources suggest Bursa).\n\nVardanyan also lists his major works:\n\n1459: \"The Lore of Medicine\" and the first \"Akhrabadin\" (an extensive work on pharmacology), manuscript 8871 in the Matenadaran in Yerevan, Armenia\n\n1466—1469: His major work on clinical medicine, \"The Benefits of Medicine\", written in the city of Phillipopolis, now Plovdiv, in Bulgaria.\n\n1474: \"Folk Medicine\", with elements of magic medicine and astrology.\n\n1481: The second \"Akhrabadin\".\n\n1478-1492: \"Useless for Ignoramuses\", his major compendium of over 3000 plants and plant names, with their medical uses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4670584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4670584", "title": "Armstrong limit", "text": "Armstrong limit\n\nThe Armstrong limit or Armstrong's line is a measure of altitude above which atmospheric pressure is sufficiently low that water boils at the normal temperature of the human body. Humans absolutely cannot survive above this limit in an unpressurized environment. Above Earth, this begins at above sea level. The term is named after United States Air Force General Harry George Armstrong, who was the first to recognize this phenomenon.\n\nThe relevant external pressure on the human body is 0.0618 atm, 6.3 kPa, 47 mmHg, or about 1 psi.\n\nAt or above the Armstrong limit, exposed body fluids such as saliva, tears, urine, blood and the liquids wetting the alveoli within the lungs—but not vascular blood (blood within the circulatory system)—will boil away without a full-body pressure suit, and no amount of breathable oxygen delivered by any means will sustain life for more than a few minutes. The NASA technical report \"Rapid (Explosive) Decompression Emergencies in Pressure-Suited Subjects\", which discusses the brief accidental exposure of a human to near vacuum, notes the likely result of exposure to pressure below that associated with the Armstrong limit: \"The subject later reported that ... his last conscious memory was of the water on his tongue beginning to boil.\"\n\nAt the nominal body temperature of 37 °C (98.6 °F), water has a vapour pressure of ; which is to say, at an ambient pressure of , the boiling point of water is 37 °C (98.6 °F). A pressure of 6.3 kPa—the Armstrong limit—is about 1/16 of the standard sea-level atmospheric pressure of . Modern formulas for calculating the standard pressure at a given altitude vary—as do the precise pressures one will actually measure at a given altitude on a given day—but a common formula shows that 6.3 kPa is typically found at an altitude of .\n\nBlood pressure is a \"gauge\" pressure, which means it is measured relative to ambient pressure. To calculate blood pressure, it has to be summed to ambient pressure for calculating when blood will boil. This is similar to a flat automobile tire: even with zero gauge pressure, a flat tire at altitude of the Armstrong limit would still have an absolute pressure (pressure relative to a perfect vacuum) of , that is, it will have the ambient pressure at the altitude where the 6.3 kPA pressure level occurs (about ), both inside and out of it. If one inflates the tire to non-zero gauge pressure, this internal pressure is \"in addition\" to those of ambient pressure. This means that for an individual with a diastolic low blood pressure, typically , the person's blood pressure would be , the sum of the blood pressure and the ambient pressure. This pressure is more than twice the ambient pressure at the Armstrong limit. This extra pressure is more than sufficient to prevent blood from outright boiling at while the heart is still beating.\n\nWell below the Armstrong limit, humans typically require supplemental oxygen in order to avoid hypoxia. For most people, this is typically needed at altitudes above 4,500 m (15,000 ft). Commercial jetliners are required to maintain cabin pressurization at a cabin altitude of not greater than . U.S. regulations on general aviation aircraft (non-airline, non-government flights) require that the minimum required flight crew, but not the passengers, be on supplemental oxygen if the plane spends more than half an hour at a cabin altitude above . The minimum required flight crew must be on supplemental oxygen if the plane spends \"any\" time above a cabin altitude of , and even the passengers must be provided with supplemental oxygen above a cabin altitude of . Skydivers, who are at altitude only briefly before jumping, do not normally exceed .\n\nThe Armstrong limit describes the altitude associated with an objective, precisely defined natural phenomenon: the vapor pressure of body-temperature water. In the late 1940s, it represented a new fundamental, hard limit to altitude that went beyond the somewhat subjective observations of human physiology and the timedependent effects of hypoxia experienced at lower altitudes. Pressure suits had long been worn at altitudes well below the Armstrong limit to avoid hypoxia. In 1936, Francis Swain of the Royal Air Force reached flying a Bristol Type 138 while wearing a pressure suit. Two years later Italian military officer Mario Pezzi set an altitude record of , wearing a pressure suit in his open-cockpit Caproni Ca.161 biplane even though he was well below the altitude at which body-temperature water boils.\n\nA pressure suit is normally required at around for a well conditioned and experienced pilot to safely operate an aircraft in unpressurized cabins. In an unpressurized cockpit, at altitudes greater than above sea level, the physiological reaction, even when breathing pure oxygen is hypoxia—inadequate oxygen level causing confusion and eventual loss of consciousness. Air contains 20.95% oxygen. At , breathing pure oxygen through an unsealed face mask, one is breathing the same partial pressure of oxygen as one would experience with regular air at around above sea level. At higher altitudes, oxygen must be delivered through a sealed mask with increased pressure, to maintain a physiologically adequate partial pressure of oxygen. If the user does not wear a pressure suit or a counter-pressure garment that restricts the movement of their chest, the high pressure air can cause damage to the lungs.\n\nFor modern military aircraft such as the United States’ F22 and F35, both of which have operational altitudes of or more, the pilot wears a \"counter-pressure garment\", which is a gsuit with high-altitude capabilities. In the event the cockpit loses pressure, the oxygen system switches to a positive-pressure mode to deliver above-ambient-pressure oxygen to a specially sealing mask as well as to proportionally inflate the counter-pressure garment. The garment counters the outward expansion of the pilot’s chest to prevent pulmonary barotrauma until the pilot can descend to a safe altitude.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11913227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11913227", "title": "Artificial gene synthesis", "text": "Artificial gene synthesis\n\nArtificial gene synthesis, sometimes known as DNA printing is a method in synthetic biology that is used to create artificial genes in the laboratory. Based on solid-phase DNA synthesis, it differs from molecular cloning and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in that it does not have to begin with preexisting DNA sequences. Therefore, it is possible to make a completely synthetic double-stranded DNA molecule with no apparent limits on either nucleotide sequence or size \n\nThe method has been used to generate functional bacterial or yeast chromosomes containing approximately one million base pairs. Creating novel nucleobase pairs in addition to the two base pairs in nature could greatly expand the genetic code.\n\nSynthesis of the first complete gene, a yeast tRNA, was demonstrated by Har Gobind Khorana and coworkers in 1972. Synthesis of the first peptide- and protein-coding genes was performed in the laboratories of Herbert Boyer and Alexander Markham, respectively.\n\nCommercial gene synthesis services are now available. Approaches are most often based on a combination of organic chemistry and molecular biology techniques and entire genes may be synthesized \"de novo\", without the need for template DNA. Gene synthesis is an important tool in many fields of recombinant DNA technology including heterologous gene expression, vaccine development, gene therapy and molecular engineering. The synthesis of nucleic acid sequences can be more economical than classical cloning and mutagenesis procedures. It is also a powerful and flexible engineering tool for creating and designing new DNA sequences and protein functions.\n\nWhile the ability to make increasingly long stretches of DNA efficiently and at lower prices is a technological driver of this field, increasingly attention is being focused on improving the design of genes for specific purposes. Early in the genome sequencing era, gene synthesis was used as an (expensive) source of cDNAs that were predicted by genomic or partial cDNA information but were difficult to clone. As higher quality sources of sequence verified cloned cDNA have become available, this practice has become less urgent.\n\nProducing large amounts of protein from gene sequences (or at least the protein coding regions of genes, the open reading frame) found in nature can sometimes prove difficult and is a problem of sufficient impact that scientific conferences have been devoted to the topic. Many of the most interesting proteins sought by molecular biologists are normally regulated to be expressed in very low amounts in wild type cells. Redesigning these genes offers a means to improve gene expression in many cases. Rewriting the open reading frame is possible because of the degeneracy of the genetic code. Thus it is possible to change up to about a third of the nucleotides in an open reading frame and still produce the same protein. The available number of alternate designs possible for a given protein is astronomical. For a typical protein sequence of 300 amino acids there are over 10 codon combinations that will encode an identical protein. Using optimization methods such as replacing rarely used codons with more common codons sometimes have dramatic effects. Further optimizations such as removing RNA secondary structures can also be included. At least in the case of \"E. coli\", protein expression is maximized by predominantly using codons corresponding to tRNA that retain amino acid charging during starvation. Computer programs written to perform these, and other simultaneous optimizations are used to handle the enormous complexity of the task. A well optimized gene can improve protein expression 2 to 10 fold, and in some cases more than 100 fold improvements have been reported. Because of the large numbers of nucleotide changes made to the original DNA sequence, the only practical way to create the newly designed genes is to use gene synthesis.\n\nOligonucleotides are chemically synthesized using building blocks called nucleoside phosphoramidites. These can be normal or modified nucleosides which have protecting groups to prevent their amines, hydroxyl groups and phosphate groups from interacting incorrectly. One phosphoramidite is added at a time, the 5' hydroxyl group is deprotected and a new base is added and so on. The chain grows in the 3' to 5' direction, which is backwards relative to biosynthesis. At the end, all the protecting groups are removed. Nevertheless, being a chemical process, several incorrect interactions occur leading to some defective products. The longer the oligonucleotide sequence that is being synthesized, the more defects there are, thus this process is only practical for producing short sequences of nucleotides. The current practical limit is about 200 bp (base pairs) for an oligonucleotide with sufficient quality to be used directly for a biological application. HPLC can be used to isolate products with the proper sequence. Meanwhile, a large number of oligos can be synthesized in parallel on gene chips. For optimal performance in subsequent gene synthesis procedures they should be prepared individually and in larger scales.\n\nUsually, a set of individually designed oligonucleotides is made on automated solid-phase synthesizers, purified and then connected by specific annealing and standard ligation or polymerase reactions. To improve specificity of oligonucleotide annealing, the synthesis step relies on a set of thermostable DNA ligase and polymerase enzymes. To date, several methods for gene synthesis have been described, such as the ligation of phosphorylated overlapping oligonucleotides, the Fok I method and a modified form of ligase chain reaction for gene synthesis. Additionally, several PCR assembly approaches have been described. They usually employ oligonucleotides of 40-50 nucleotides long that overlap each other. These oligonucleotides are designed to cover most of the sequence of both strands, and the full-length molecule is generated progressively by overlap extension (OE) PCR, thermodynamically balanced inside-out (TBIO) PCR or combined approaches. The most commonly synthesized genes range in size from 600 to 1,200 bp although much longer genes have been made by connecting previously assembled fragments of under 1,000 bp. In this size range it is necessary to test several candidate clones confirming the sequence of the cloned synthetic gene by automated sequencing methods.\n\nMoreover, because the assembly of the full-length gene product relies on the efficient and specific alignment of long single stranded oligonucleotides, critical parameters for synthesis success include extended sequence regions comprising secondary structures caused by inverted repeats, extraordinary high or low GC-content, or repetitive structures. Usually these segments of a particular gene can only be synthesized by splitting the procedure into several consecutive steps and a final assembly of shorter sub-sequences, which in turn leads to a significant increase in time and labor needed for its production.\nThe result of a gene synthesis experiment depends strongly on the quality of the oligonucleotides used. For these annealing based gene synthesis protocols, the quality of the product is directly and exponentially dependent on the correctness of the employed oligonucleotides. Alternatively, after performing gene synthesis with oligos of lower quality, more effort must be made in downstream quality assurance during clone analysis, which is usually done by time-consuming standard cloning and sequencing procedures.\nAnother problem associated with all current gene synthesis methods is the high frequency of sequence errors because of the usage of chemically synthesized oligonucleotides. The error frequency increases with longer oligonucleotides, and as a consequence the percentage of correct product decreases dramatically as more oligonucleotides are used.\nThe mutation problem could be solved by shorter oligonucleotides used to assemble the gene. However, all annealing based assembly methods require the primers to be mixed together in one tube. In this case, shorter overlaps do not always allow precise and specific annealing of complementary primers, resulting in the inhibition of full length product formation.\nManual design of oligonucleotides is a laborious procedure and does not guarantee the successful synthesis of the desired gene. For optimal performance of almost all annealing based methods, the melting temperatures of the overlapping regions are supposed to be similar for all oligonucleotides. The necessary primer optimization should be performed using specialized oligonucleotide design programs. Several solutions for automated primer design for gene synthesis have been presented so far.\n\nTo overcome problems associated with oligonucleotide quality several elaborate strategies have been developed, employing either separately prepared fishing oligonucleotides, mismatch binding enzymes of the mutS family or specific endonucleases from bacteria or phages. Nevertheless, all these strategies increase time and costs for gene synthesis based on the annealing of chemically synthesized oligonucleotides.\n\nMassively parallel sequencing has also been used as a tool to screen complex oligonucleotide libraries and enable the retrieval of accurate molecules. In one approach, oligonucleotides are sequenced on the 454 pyrosequencing platform and a robotic system images and picks individual beads corresponding to accurate sequence. In another approach, a complex oligonucleotide library is modified with unique flanking tags before massively parallel sequencing. Tag-directed primers then enable the retrieval of molecules with desired sequences by dial-out PCR.\n\nIncreasingly, genes are ordered in sets including functionally related genes or multiple sequence variants on a single gene. Virtually all of the therapeutic proteins in development, such as monoclonal antibodies, are optimized by testing many gene variants for improved function or expression.\n\nMajor applications of synthetic genes include synthesis of DNA sequences identified by high throughput sequencing but never cloned into plasmids and the ability to safely obtain genes for vaccine research without the need to grow the full pathogens. Digital manipulation of digital genetic code before synthesis into DNA can be used to optimize protein expression in a particular host, or remove non-functional segments in order to facilitate further replication of the DNA.\n\nSynthesis of DNA allows DNA digital data storage.\n\nThe significant drop in cost of gene synthesis in recent years due to increasing competition of companies providing this service has led to the ability to produce entire bacterial plasmids that have never existed in nature. The field of synthetic biology utilizes the technology to produce synthetic biological circuits, which are stretches of DNA manipulated to change gene expression within cells and cause the cell to produce a desired product.\n\nOn June 28, 2007, a team at the J. Craig Venter Institute published an article in \"Science Express\", saying that they had successfully transplanted the natural DNA from a \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" bacterium into a \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" cell, creating a bacterium which behaved like a \"M. mycoides\".\n\nOn Oct 6, 2007, Craig Venter announced in an interview with UK's \"The Guardian\" newspaper that the same team had synthesized a modified version of the single chromosome of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" using chemicals. The chromosome was modified to eliminate all genes which tests in live bacteria had shown to be unnecessary. The next planned step in this \"minimal genome project\" is to transplant the synthesized minimal genome into a bacterial cell with its old DNA removed; the resulting bacterium will be called \"Mycoplasma laboratorium\". The next day the Canadian bioethics group, ETC Group issued a statement through their representative, Pat Mooney, saying Venter's \"creation\" was \"a chassis on which you could build almost anything\". The synthesized genome had not yet been transplanted into a working cell.\n\nOn May 21, 2010, \"Science\" reported that the Venter group had successfully synthesized the genome of the bacterium \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" from a computer record, and transplanted the synthesized genome into the existing cell of a \"Mycoplasma capricolum\" bacterium that had its DNA removed. The \"synthetic\" bacterium was viable, i.e. capable of replicating billions of times. The team had originally planned to use the \"M. genitalium\" bacterium they had previously been working with, but switched to \"M. mycoides\" because the latter bacterium grows much faster, which translated into quicker experiments. Venter describes it as \"the first species... to have its parents be a computer\". The transformed bacterium is dubbed \"Synthia\" by ETC. A Venter spokesperson has declined to confirm any breakthrough at the time of this writing.\n\nIn March 2014, Jef Boeke of the Langone Medical Centre at New York University, published that his team has synthesized one of the \"S. cerevisiae\" 16 yeast chromosomes, the chromosome III, that he named synIII. The procedure involved replacing the genes in the original chromosome with synthetic versions and the finished human made chromosome was then integrated into a yeast cell. It required designing and creating 273,871 base pairs of DNA – fewer than the 316,667 pairs in the original chromosome. In March 2017 6 yeast chromosomes were reported to have been synthesized.\n\nDNA sequences have been described which use newly created nucleobases to form a third base pair, in addition to the two base pairs found in nature, A-T (adenine – thymine) and G-C (guanine – cytosine). Multiple research groups have been searching for a third base pair for DNA, including teams led by Steven A. Benner, Philippe Marliere, and Ichiro Hirao. Some new base pairs have been reported.\n\nIn 2012, a group of American scientists led by Floyd Romesberg, a chemical biologist at the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, California, published that his team designed an unnatural base pair (UBP). The two new artificial nucleotides or \"Unnatural Base Pair\" (UBP) were named d5SICS and dNaM. More technically, these artificial nucleotides bearing hydrophobic nucleobases, feature two fused aromatic rings that form a (d5SICS–dNaM) complex or base pair in DNA. In 2014 the same team from the Scripps Research Institute reported that they synthesized a stretch of circular DNA known as a plasmid containing natural T-A and C-G base pairs along with the best-performing UBP Romesberg's laboratory had designed, and inserted it into cells of the common bacterium \"E. coli\" that successfully replicated the unnatural base pairs through multiple generations. This is the first known example of a living organism passing along an expanded genetic code to subsequent generations. This was in part achieved by the addition of a supportive algal gene that expresses a nucleotide triphosphate transporter which efficiently imports the triphosphates of both d5SICSTP and dNaMTP into \"E. coli\" bacteria. Then, the natural bacterial replication pathways use them to accurately replicate the plasmid containing d5SICS–dNaM.\n\nThe successful incorporation of a third base pair is a significant breakthrough toward the goal of greatly expanding the number of amino acids which can be encoded by DNA, from the existing 20 amino acids to a theoretically possible 172, thereby expanding the potential for living organisms to produce novel proteins. The artificial strings of DNA do not encode for anything yet, but scientists speculate they could be designed to manufacture new proteins which could have industrial or pharmaceutical uses.\n\n"}
{"id": "54213108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54213108", "title": "Blagoje Parović", "text": "Blagoje Parović\n\nBlagoje Parović (Serbian Cyrillic: Благоје Паровић; 1903—1937) was a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia.\n\nParović was born on 25 March 1903 in the village Biograd near Nevesinje. His parents Petar and Gospava were poor peasants. Both of his parents died in his early years. His mother died first while his father Petar was killed by soldiers of Austria-Hungary during the First World War. After death of his parents Parović went to Vinkovci where he was educated as shoemaker. His younger brother Rade was taken to Gradiška.\n\nParović was commissar of the XIII International Brigade during the Spanish Civil War. According to communist published works, Parović died on 7 July 1937 in the Battle of Brunete, heading his brigade during one assault toward well-defended enemy positions. knew the exact position of his death. Begović was known as executor of the Communist Party enemies. In his 1990 interview to Politika, Vladimir Dedijer stated that Peko Dapčević openly spoke about the possible role of Begović in the murder of Blagoje Parović.\n\nThe central square in Nevesinje, his birth town, is named against Parović. A street in Belgrade, a capital of Serbia and Novi Sad, capital of Serbia's northern province Vojvodina is named against Parović.\n\n"}
{"id": "46411676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46411676", "title": "Brian McDermott (murder victim)", "text": "Brian McDermott (murder victim)\n\nBrian McDermott was a 10 year old schoolboy who disappeared in Belfast in 1973. He was last seen at Ormeau Park on 2 September 1973. He failed to return to his home on Well Street in the lower Woodstock Road area of Cregagh, Belfast. A week after he went missing, the River Lagan was lowered and a sack containing some of his remains was found.\n\nIn 1982 a possible link between the death of Brian McDermott and the abuse scandal at Kincora Boys' Home was discussed by Jim Prior , Michael Havers, senior civil servant Sir William Bourne and then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland and then Lord Chancellor Quintin Hogg. Papers concerning this meeting were released in 2013.\n\nBrian's brother William was 16 at the time of his disappearance and he was considered a suspect and questioned in 1976 and again in 2004. William denies the allegations and is estranged from the rest of his family. He admits confessing in 1976, but says that the confession was coerced. He changed his name by deed poll to avoid the stigma of being a suspect in his brother's murder. His murder remains unsolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "1106830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106830", "title": "Cell culture", "text": "Cell culture\n\nCell culture is the process by which cells are grown under controlled conditions, generally outside their natural environment. After the cells of interest have been isolated from living tissue, they can subsequently be maintained under carefully controlled conditions. These conditions vary for each cell type, but generally consist of a suitable vessel with a substrate or medium that supplies the essential nutrients (amino acids, carbohydrates, vitamins, minerals), growth factors, hormones, and gases (CO, O), and regulates the physio-chemical environment (pH buffer, osmotic pressure, temperature). Most cells require a surface or an artificial substrate (adherent or monolayer culture) whereas others can be grown free floating in culture medium (suspension culture). The lifespan of most cells is genetically determined, but some cell culturing cells have been “transformed” into immortal cells which will reproduce indefinitely if the optimal conditions are provided.\n\nIn practice, the term \"cell culture\" now refers to the culturing of cells derived from multicellular eukaryotes, especially animal cells, in contrast with other types of culture that also grow cells, such as plant tissue culture, fungal culture, and microbiological culture (of microbes). The historical development and methods of cell culture are closely interrelated to those of tissue culture and organ culture. Viral culture is also related, with cells as hosts for the viruses.\n\nThe laboratory technique of maintaining live cell lines (a population of cells descended from a single cell and containing the same genetic makeup) separated from their original tissue source became more robust in the middle 20th century.\n\nThe 19th-century English physiologist Sydney Ringer developed salt solutions containing the chlorides of sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium suitable for maintaining the beating of an isolated animal heart outside the body. In 1885, Wilhelm Roux removed a portion of the medullary plate of an embryonic chicken and maintained it in a warm saline solution for several days, establishing the principle of tissue culture. Ross Granville Harrison, working at Johns Hopkins Medical School and then at Yale University, published results of his experiments from 1907 to 1910, establishing the methodology of tissue culture.\n\nCell culture techniques were advanced significantly in the 1940s and 1950s to support research in virology. Growing viruses in cell cultures allowed preparation of purified viruses for the manufacture of vaccines. The injectable polio vaccine developed by Jonas Salk was one of the first products mass-produced using cell culture techniques. This vaccine was made possible by the cell culture research of John Franklin Enders, Thomas Huckle Weller, and Frederick Chapman Robbins, who were awarded a Nobel Prize for their discovery of a method of growing the virus in monkey kidney cell cultures.\n\nCells can be isolated from tissues for \"ex vivo\" culture in several ways. Cells can be easily purified from blood; however, only the white cells are capable of growth in culture. Cells can be isolated from solid tissues by digesting the extracellular matrix using enzymes such as collagenase, trypsin, or pronase, before agitating the tissue to release the cells into suspension. Alternatively, pieces of tissue can be placed in growth media, and the cells that grow out are available for culture. This method is known as explant culture.\n\nCells that are cultured directly from a subject are known as primary cells. With the exception of some derived from tumors, most primary cell cultures have limited lifespan.\n\nAn established or immortalized cell line has acquired the ability to proliferate indefinitely either through random mutation or deliberate modification, such as artificial expression of the telomerase gene.\nNumerous cell lines are well established as representative of particular cell types.\n\nFor the majority of isolated primary cells, they undergo the process of senescence and stop dividing after a certain number of population doublings while generally retaining their viability (described as the Hayflick limit).\n\nCells are grown and maintained at an appropriate temperature and gas mixture (typically, 37 °C, 5% CO for mammalian cells) in a cell incubator. Culture conditions vary widely for each cell type, and variation of conditions for a particular cell type can result in different phenotypes.Aside from temperature and gas mixture, the most commonly varied factor in culture systems is the cell growth medium. Recipes for growth media can vary in pH, glucose concentration, growth factors, and the presence of other nutrients. The growth factors used to supplement media are often derived from the serum of animal blood, such as fetal bovine serum (FBS), bovine calf serum, equine serum, and porcine serum. One complication of these blood-derived ingredients is the potential for contamination of the culture with viruses or prions, particularly in medical biotechnology applications. Current practice is to minimize or eliminate the use of these ingredients wherever possible and use human platelet lysate (hPL). This eliminates the worry of cross-species contamination when using FBS with human cells. hPL has emerged as a safe and reliable alternative as a direct replacement for FBS or other animal serum. In addition, chemically defined media can be used to eliminate any serum trace (human or animal), but this cannot always be accomplished with different cell types. Alternative strategies involve sourcing the animal blood from countries with minimum BSE/TSE risk, such as The United States, Australia and New Zealand, and using purified nutrient concentrates derived from serum in place of whole animal serum for cell culture.\n\nPlating density (number of cells per volume of culture medium) plays a critical role for some cell types. For example, a lower plating density makes granulosa cells exhibit estrogen production, while a higher plating density makes them appear as progesterone-producing theca lutein cells.\n\nCells can be grown either in suspension or adherent cultures. Some cells naturally live in suspension, without being attached to a surface, such as cells that exist in the bloodstream. There are also cell lines that have been modified to be able to survive in suspension cultures so they can be grown to a higher density than adherent conditions would allow. Adherent cells require a surface, such as tissue culture plastic or microcarrier, which may be coated with extracellular matrix (such as collagen and laminin) components to increase adhesion properties and provide other signals needed for growth and differentiation. Most cells derived from solid tissues are adherent. Another type of adherent culture is organotypic culture, which involves growing cells in a three-dimensional (3-D) environment as opposed to two-dimensional culture dishes. This 3D culture system is biochemically and physiologically more similar to \"in vivo\" tissue, but is technically challenging to maintain because of many factors (e.g. diffusion).\n\nCell line cross-contamination can be a problem for scientists working with cultured cells. Studies suggest anywhere from 15–20% of the time, cells used in experiments have been misidentified or contaminated with another cell line. Problems with cell line cross-contamination have even been detected in lines from the NCI-60 panel, which are used routinely for drug-screening studies. Major cell line repositories, including the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), the European Collection of Cell Cultures (ECACC) and the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ), have received cell line submissions from researchers that were misidentified by them. Such contamination poses a problem for the quality of research produced using cell culture lines, and the major repositories are now authenticating all cell line submissions. ATCC uses short tandem repeat (STR) DNA fingerprinting to authenticate its cell lines.\n\nTo address this problem of cell line cross-contamination, researchers are encouraged to authenticate their cell lines at an early passage to establish the identity of the cell line. Authentication should be repeated before freezing cell line stocks, every two months during active culturing and before any publication of research data generated using the cell lines. Many methods are used to identify cell lines, including isoenzyme analysis, human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) typing, chromosomal analysis, karyotyping, morphology and STR analysis.\n\nOne significant cell-line cross contaminant is the immortal HeLa cell line.\n\nAs cells generally continue to divide in culture, they generally grow to fill the available area or volume. This can generate several issues:\n\n\nAmong the common manipulations carried out on culture cells are media changes, passaging cells, and transfecting cells.\nThese are generally performed using tissue culture methods that rely on aseptic technique. Aseptic technique aims to avoid contamination with bacteria, yeast, or other cell lines. Manipulations are typically carried out in a biosafety hood or laminar flow cabinet to exclude contaminating micro-organisms. Antibiotics (e.g. penicillin and streptomycin) and antifungals (e.g.amphotericin B) can also be added to the growth media.\n\nAs cells undergo metabolic processes, acid is produced and the pH decreases. Often, a pH indicator is added to the medium to measure nutrient depletion.\n\nIn the case of adherent cultures, the media can be removed directly by aspiration, and then is replaced. Media changes in non-adherent cultures involve centrifuging the culture and resuspending the cells in fresh media.\n\nPassaging (also known as subculture or splitting cells) involves transferring a small number of cells into a new vessel. Cells can be cultured for a longer time if they are split regularly, as it avoids the senescence associated with prolonged high cell density. Suspension cultures are easily passaged with a small amount of culture containing a few cells diluted in a larger volume of fresh media. For adherent cultures, cells first need to be detached; this is commonly done with a mixture of trypsin-EDTA; however, other enzyme mixes are now available for this purpose. A small number of detached cells can then be used to seed a new culture. Some cell cultures, such as RAW cells are mechanically scraped from the surface of their vessel with rubber scrapers.\n\nAnother common method for manipulating cells involves the introduction of foreign DNA by transfection. This is often performed to cause cells to express a gene of interest. More recently, the transfection of RNAi constructs have been realized as a convenient mechanism for suppressing the expression of a particular gene/protein. DNA can also be inserted into cells using viruses, in methods referred to as transduction, infection or transformation. Viruses, as parasitic agents, are well suited to introducing DNA into cells, as this is a part of their normal course of reproduction.\n\nCell lines that originate with humans have been somewhat controversial in bioethics, as they may outlive their parent organism and later be used in the discovery of lucrative medical treatments. In the pioneering decision in this area, the Supreme Court of California held in \"Moore v. Regents of the University of California\" that human patients have no property rights in cell lines derived from organs removed with their consent.\nIt is possible to fuse normal cells with an immortalised cell line. This method is used to produce monoclonal antibodies. In brief, lymphocytes isolated from the spleen (or possibly blood) of an immunised animal are combined with an immortal myeloma cell line (B cell lineage) to produce a hybridoma which has the antibody specificity of the primary lymphocyte and the immortality of the myeloma. Selective growth medium (HA or HAT) is used to select against unfused myeloma cells; primary lymphoctyes die quickly in culture and only the fused cells survive. These are screened for production of the required antibody, generally in pools to start with and then after single cloning.\n\nA cell strain is derived either from a primary culture or a cell line by the selection or cloning of cells having specific properties or characteristics which must be defined. Cell strains are cells that have been adapted to culture but, unlike cell lines, have a finite division potential. Non-immortalized cells stop dividing after 40 to 60 population doublings and, after this, they lose their ability to proliferate (a genetically determined event known as senescence).\n\nMass culture of animal cell lines is fundamental to the manufacture of viral vaccines and other products of biotechnology. Culture of human stem cells is used to expand the number of cells and differentiate the cells into various somatic cell types for transplantation. Stem cell culture is also used to harvest the molecules and exosomes that the stem cells release for the purposes of therapeutic development.\n\nBiological products produced by recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology in animal cell cultures include enzymes, synthetic hormones, immunobiologicals (monoclonal antibodies, interleukins, lymphokines), and anticancer agents. Although many simpler proteins can be produced using rDNA in bacterial cultures, more complex proteins that are glycosylated (carbohydrate-modified) currently must be made in animal cells. An important example of such a complex protein is the hormone erythropoietin. The cost of growing mammalian cell cultures is high, so research is underway to produce such complex proteins in insect cells or in higher plants, use of single embryonic cell and somatic embryos as a source for direct gene transfer via particle bombardment, transit gene expression and confocal microscopy observation is one of its applications. It also offers to confirm single cell origin of somatic embryos and the asymmetry of the first cell division, which starts the process.\n\nCell culture is also a key technique for cellular agriculture, which aims to provide both new products and new ways of producing existing agricultural products like milk, (cultured) meat, fragrances, and rhino horn from cells and microorganisms. It is therefore considered one means of achieving animal-free agriculture. It is also a central tool for teaching cell biology.\n\nResearch in tissue engineering, stem cells and molecular biology primarily involves cultures of cells on flat plastic dishes. This technique is known as two-dimensional (2D) cell culture, and was first developed by Wilhelm Roux who, in 1885, removed a portion of the medullary plate of an embryonic chicken and maintained it in warm saline for several days on a flat glass plate. From the advance of polymer technology arose today's standard plastic dish for 2D cell culture, commonly known as the Petri dish. Julius Richard Petri, a German bacteriologist, is generally credited with this invention while working as an assistant to Robert Koch. Various researchers today also utilize culturing laboratory flasks, conicals, and even disposable bags like those used in single-use bioreactors.\n\nAside from Petri dishes, scientists have long been growing cells within biologically derived matrices such as collagen or fibrin, and more recently, on synthetic hydrogels such as polyacrylamide or PEG. They do this in order to elicit phenotypes that are not expressed on conventionally rigid substrates. There is growing interest in controlling matrix stiffness, a concept that has led to discoveries in fields such as:\n\n\nCell culture in three dimensions has been touted as \"Biology's New Dimension\". At present, the practice of cell culture remains based on varying combinations of single or multiple cell structures in 2D. Currently, there is an increase in use of 3D cell cultures in research areas including drug discovery, cancer biology, regenerative medicine and basic life science research. 3D cell cultures can be grown using a scaffold or matrix, or in a scaffold-free manner. Scaffold based cultures utilize an acellular 3D matrix or a liquid matrix. Scaffold-free methods are normally generated in suspensions. There are a variety of platforms used to facilitate the growth of three-dimensional cellular structures including scaffold systems such as hydrogel matrices and solid scaffolds, and scaffold-free systems such as low-adhesion plates, nanoparticle facilitated magnetic levitation, and hanging drop plates.\n\n3D cell culture in scaffolds\n\nEric Simon, in a 1988 NIH SBIR grant report, showed that electrospinning could be used to produced nano- and submicron-scale polystyrene and polycarbonate fibrous scaffolds specifically intended for use as \"in vitro\" cell substrates. This early use of electrospun fibrous lattices for cell culture and tissue engineering showed that various cell types including Human Foreskin Fibroblasts (HFF), transformed Human Carcinoma (HEp-2), and Mink Lung Epithelium (MLE) would adhere to and proliferate upon polycarbonate fibers. It was noted that, as opposed to the flattened morphology typically seen in 2D culture, cells grown on the electrospun fibers exhibited a more histotypic rounded 3-dimensional morphology generally observed \"in vivo\".\n\nAs the natural extracellular matrix (ECM) is important in the survival, proliferation, differentiation and migration of cells, different hydrogel culture matrices mimicking natural ECM structure are seen as potential approaches to in vivo –like cell culturing. Hydrogels are composed of interconnected pores with high water retention, which enables efficient transport of substances such as nutrients and gases. Several different types of hydrogels from natural and synthetic materials are available for 3D cell culture, including animal ECM extract hydrogels, protein hydrogels, peptide hydrogels, polymer hydrogels, and wood-based nanocellulose hydrogel.\n\nThe 3D Cell Culturing by Magnetic Levitation method (MLM) is the application of growing 3D tissue by inducing cells treated with magnetic nanoparticle assemblies in spatially varying magnetic fields using neodymium magnetic drivers and promoting cell to cell interactions by levitating the cells up to the air/liquid interface of a standard petri dish. The magnetic nanoparticle assemblies consist of magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles, gold nanoparticles, and the polymer polylysine. 3D cell culturing is scalable, with the capability for culturing 500 cells to millions of cells or from single dish to high-throughput low volume systems.\n\nCell culture is a fundamental component of tissue culture and tissue engineering, as it establishes the basics of growing and maintaining cells \"in vitro\".\nThe major application of human cell culture is in stem cell industry, where mesenchymal stem cells can be cultured and cryopreserved for future use. Tissue engineering potentially offers dramatic improvements in low cost medical care for hundreds of thousands of patients annually.\n\nVaccines for polio, measles, mumps, rubella, and chickenpox are currently made in cell cultures. Due to the H5N1 pandemic threat, research into using cell culture for influenza vaccines is being funded by the United States government. Novel ideas in the field include recombinant DNA-based vaccines, such as one made using human adenovirus (a common cold virus) as a vector,\nand novel adjuvants.\n\nBesides the culture of well-established immortalised cell lines, cells from primary explants of a plethora of organisms can be cultured for a limited period of time before sensecence occurs (see Hayflick's limit). Cultured primary cells have been extensively used in research, as is the case of fish keratocytes in cell migration studies.\n\nPlant cell cultures are typically grown as cell suspension cultures in a liquid medium or as callus cultures on a solid medium. The culturing of undifferentiated plant cells and calli requires the proper balance of the plant growth hormones auxin and cytokinin.\n\nCells derived from Drosophila melanogaster (most prominently, Schneider 2 cells) can be used for experiments which may be hard to do on live flies or larvae, such as biochemical studies or studies using siRNA. Cell lines derived from the army worm \"Spodoptera frugiperda\", including Sf9 and Sf21, and from the cabbage looper \"Trichoplusia ni\", High Five cells, are commonly used for expression of recombinant proteins using baculovirus.\n\nFor bacteria and yeasts, small quantities of cells are usually grown on a solid support that contains nutrients embedded in it, usually a gel such as agar, while large-scale cultures are grown with the cells suspended in a nutrient broth.\n\nThe culture of viruses requires the culture of cells of mammalian, plant, fungal or bacterial origin as hosts for the growth and replication of the virus. Whole wild type viruses, recombinant viruses or viral products may be generated in cell types other than their natural hosts under the right conditions. Depending on the species of the virus, infection and viral replication may result in host cell lysis and formation of a viral plaque.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2989740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2989740", "title": "Christina of Norway", "text": "Christina of Norway\n\nChristina Sverresdatter (Norwegian: \"Kristin Sverresdatter\"; died 1213) was a medieval Norwegian princess and titular queen consort, spouse of co-regent Philip Simonsson, the Bagler party pretender to the throne of Norway.\n\nChristina was the daughter of King Sverre Sigurdsson of Norway and his queen consort, Margaret of Sweden. Her father died in 1202 and her mother returned to Sweden, forced to leave Christina behind. In 1209, she married Norwegian aristocrat Philip Simonsson. She died in labour giving birth to their first child, a son, who also died soon after.\n\nHer marriage was arranged as a part of reconciliation between the Bagler and Birkebeiner factions during the period of the Civil war era in Norway. In 1208, with no side looking able to achieve victory, Bishop Nikolas Arnesson together with other bishops of the Church, brokered a peace deal between the Baglers and the Birkebeiners. At the settlement of Kvitsøy, the Birkebeiner candidate for king, Inge II of Norway, recognized Philip's rule over the eastern third of the country in return for Philip giving up any claim to the title of king and recognizing King Inge as his overlord. To seal the agreement, Philip was to marry King Sverre's daughter, Christina.\n\nIn Norwegian civil war era it was usual that several royal sons fought against each other over power in Norway. The civil war period of Norwegian history lasted from 1130 to 1240. During this period there were several interlocked conflicts of varying scale and intensity. The background for these conflicts were the unclear Norwegian succession laws, social conditions and the struggle between Church and King. There were then two main parties, firstly known by varying names or no names at all, but finally condensed into parties of Bagler and Birkebeiner. The rallying point regularly was a royal son, who was set up as the head figure of the party in question, to oppose the rule of king from the contesting party.\n\nHåkon and Kristin are the mascots of the 1994 Winter Olympics. Håkon is named after Haakon IV of Norway and Kristin after Christina of Norway.\n"}
{"id": "32263105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32263105", "title": "DIALREL", "text": "DIALREL\n\nDIALREL (Full title: \"Religious slaughter: improving knowledge and expertise through dialogue and debate on issues of welfare, legislation and socio-economic aspects)\" was a project financed by the EU that was launched in 2006, and completed in 2010. Its aim was to promote dialogue between the various interested parties and stakeholders involved in the religious slaughter of animals. Institutions and experts from Australia, Belgium, Germany, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway and Turkey contributed to the project. The final report was completed in 2010 and was submitted to the European Commission.\n\nThe DIALREL document was criticised by Professor Regenstein, Professor of Food Science at Cornell University while it was still a work in progress.\n\n"}
{"id": "3310951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3310951", "title": "David Freedman", "text": "David Freedman\n\nDavid Freedman (April 26, 1898 – December 8, 1936) (aged 38) was a Romanian-born American playwright and biographer who became known as the \"King of the Gag-writers\" in the early days of radio.\n\nDavid Freedman was born in Botoşani, Romania, as the first child and only son of Sara and Israel Freedman. Israel, a political refugee, immigrated with his young family to the United States in 1900, where four years later, David's sister Sophie became the first Freedman born in the U.S.\n\nFreedman graduated from the City College of New York in 1918, the first in his family to complete a formal education beyond high school. In September 1918, he married Beatrice (née Rebecca Goodman), a fellow New Yorker, who was born in the city on September 27, 1899 (her parents had fled from Kishinev, Russian Empire). Within five years they had three sons, Benedict (1919–2012), David Noel (1922–2008), and Toby (1924–2011). A decade later their only daughter, who is now known as Laurie Hayden, arrived.\n\nFrom 1924 on, Freedman was a self-employed writer. He created sketches for musicals and had shows on Broadway almost every year from 1926 through 1937. His novel \"Mendel Marantz\" (1925) featured a Jewish father who frequently made witty remarks. His first play, \"Mendel, Inc.\", debuted in 1929. When radio replaced vaudeville, Freedman—who already enjoyed a reputation as a popular, versatile writer—was ready for the new medium. He was prolific, creating as many as six entertainment programs a week for several years, and eventually worked in movies as well.\n\nFreedman was also a biographer and wrote about industry insiders. His first biography, the Eddie Cantor memoir \"My Life Is in Your Hands\" (1928, \"as told to\" Freedman by Cantor), became a bestseller and was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize. Freedman and Cantor collaborated on a biography of showman Florenz Ziegfeld; \"Ziegfeld: the Great Glorifier\" (1934) was used for the film \"Ziegfeld Follies\" (1945). Similarly, \"Phantom Fame\" which he co-authored with the impresario Harry Reichenbach (1931) became the basis for the movie \"The Half-Naked Truth\" (1932).\n\nIn the mid-1930s Freedman contributed scripts for short comedies produced by Educational Pictures in New York. The best known is probably \"Blue Blazes\" (1936), starring Buster Keaton as an inept fireman.\n\nFreedman suffered a massive heart attack on the evening of Monday, December 7, 1936. By the morning of the 8th, he was dead, leaving Beatrice, his partner of 18 years, and their four children, who ranged in age from just under 17 to just under 2 years.\n\nAccording to his son, David Noel Freedman, it is unlikely that contemporary audiences would appreciate most of David Freedman's work (though his jokes about the stock market still ring true), because most of his jokes played on the peculiarities and sensitivities of his era. Freedman's stories, however, have a timeless quality. As the years passed, his family honored his memory with the posthumous publication of \"The Intellectual Lover\" (1940, repr. 2007), a collection of short stories that were originally published individually between 1922 and 1928.\n\nOf the countless pieces Freedman wrote between 1920 and 1936, \"Mendel, Inc.\" (1929) is the only fully realized play. A product of the beginning of his brief career, it embodies the mature thoughts of a humorist/playwright. On June 2, 2004, this classic comedy about an immigrant Jewish family living in the uncertain times of 1929 of the Lower East Side was read to a packed house at the North Coast Repertory Theatre in Solana Beach, California. \"Mendel, Inc.\" was also used as the basis for the 1932 Warner Brothers film \"The Heart of New York.\" a vehicle for Jewish-dialect comedians Smith and Dale, with comedian George Sidney as the pivotal character, Mendel Marantz.\n\nFour books by Freedman were translated into Russian and published by Ogonyok in 1926; they enjoyed tremendous popularity for a short while, and Mendel's witty \"definitions\" were quoted everywhere, but within a year they were eclipsed by the comic writings of Ilf and Petrov and Mikhail Zoshchenko, and were soon forgotten, although Anatoly Rybakov has a character quote Mendel in \"Children of the Arbat\" (set in 1933). His novel \"Mendel Marantz\" was republished as an audiobook in Russian in 2011, narrated by noted actors Klara Novikova, Leonid Kanevsky and others.\n\nA fictionalized version of David Freedman appears as \"Harry Goldhandler\" in the novel \"Inside, Outside\" by Herman Wouk.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165518", "title": "DeMarcus Corley", "text": "DeMarcus Corley\n\nDeMarcus Deon Corley (born June 3, 1974) is an American professional boxer. A veteran of the sport for more than two decades, he held the WBO junior welterweight title from 2001 to 2003, and has fought as a gatekeeper against many of boxing's biggest names.\n\nCorley was an amateur standout, and won the National Golden Gloves Light Welterweight Championship in 1995.\n\nCorley began boxing professionally on May 17, 1996, knocking out Aaron Smith in the first round.\n\nHe would not lose a match until 1999, against Daniel Lujan. Later that year in his 22nd bout with a record of 21 wins 1 defeat (11KO) he faced Ener Julio for the USBA light welterweight title, he won via a 12-round split decision. He later defeated Ener Julio again to defend his WBO light welterweight belt (which he would later lose to future undisputed welterweight champion Zab Judah).\n\nHe took 2002 off from boxing to recover from the murder of his brother. He returned to the ring on January 4, 2003.\n\nIn 2006 he fought Junior Witter for the vacant WBC light welterweight championship, losing a wide decision in a very tactical bout.\n\nAfter many consecutive losses, Corley took on Damian Fuller in 2010 and improved his record to 37-13-1 (21 KO's) with a 4th-round TKO.\n\nOn August 28, 2010 he lost to Marcos Maidana by unanimous decision in a fight in which was disputed, for the WBA light welterweight title.\n\nOn November 14, 2010 he lost to Serhiy Fedchenko by unanimous decision in a fight in which was also disputed, for the vacant WBO European light welterweight title. On January 21, 2012 he won the vacant NABF light welterweight title when he defeated Gabriel Bracero by unanimous decision.\n\nHe then earned a TKO victory over Paul McCloskey on May 5, 2012.\n\nOn September 27, 2013 Demarcus Corley lost against Selçuk Aydın by corner stoppage at the end of round 4.\n"}
{"id": "23234985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23234985", "title": "Death and state funeral of Omar Bongo", "text": "Death and state funeral of Omar Bongo\n\nThe second President of Gabon, Omar Bongo, died in Spain on June 8, 2009, after having suffered from colorectal cancer. A month of mourning and state funeral, spanning June 11 to 18th, followed.\n\nAfter Bongo's death his coffin was flown from Barcelona to Libreville on June 11. It was driven to his presidential palace beside the Atlantic Ocean and displayed until June 16. A state funeral service was conducted on June 16, the day that interim President Rose Francine Rogombé declared a national day of mourning. The service was attended by dignitaries from at least forty nations. After the service, Bongo's coffin was transported to his home village for burial on June 18.\n\nAt the time of his death, Bongo had been Africa's longest serving leader.\n\nOn 7 May 2009, the Gabonese Government announced that Bongo had temporarily suspended his official duties and taken time off to mourn his wife and rest in Spain.\n\nIt was reported by the international media that he was seriously ill, and undergoing treatment for cancer in hospital in Barcelona, Spain. The Gabonese government maintained that he was in Spain for a few days of rest following the \"intense emotional shock\" of his wife's death, but eventually admitted that he was in a Spanish clinic \"undergoing a medical check up\". AFP eventually released a report stating among other things that \"While Gabon's government has insisted he was undergoing a medical check-up, several sources said he was being treated for intestinal cancer, which they said had reached an advanced stage\".\n\nOn 7 June 2009, unconfirmed reports quoting French media and citing sources \"close to the French government\" reported that Bongo had died in Spain. The Government of Gabon denied the report. The same day, Gabon's prime minister released a statement saying that he went to visit Bongo in the Quiron clinic in Barcelona: \"This morning I visited the President, accompanied by the President of the National Assembly, the Foreign Minister, the head of the President's cabinet and senior members of the presidential family and after a meeting with the medical team we can confirm that the President is alive.\" The Prime Minister made no comment on Bongo's state of health after reading the statement to reporters.\n\nOn 8 June 2009, the BBC released a report stating that: \"The Spanish foreign affairs ministry backed [Prime Minister] Ndong's assertion, saying: \"We have confirmed that he [President Bongo] is alive. We have no further information about him\". But later on Monday, reports in the Spanish media said Bongo had died shortly after Ndong's news conference. They quoted members of Bongo's entourage as saying the African leader had died at 12:00 GMT. The clinic and the Spanish government refused to comment on the latest reports\".\n\nThe Gabonese government maintained its position. Sky News reported that a Gabonese government spokesman had stated: \"The presidency of the Gabonese Republic would like to stress that the President of the Republic, the Head of State, His Excellency Omar Bongo is not dead ... He is continuing his holiday in Spain following his checkup at the Quiron Clinic in Barcelona\". Speaking on French radio, spokesman Raphael N'Toutoume added that the latest update he had heard was good news – and that Bongo was preparing to leave the clinic. \"We are getting ready to welcome the head of state. No date for his return has been set\", the spokesman said. Privately, Gabonese officials were furious with the premature announcement by France, questioning how Germany would react if France announced the death of Angela Merkel.\n\nBongo's death was confirmed by Prime Minister Jean Eyeghe Ndong in a written statement on June 8, 2009. In his statement, Eyeghe Ndong said that Bongo had died of a heart attack shortly before 12:30 GMT on June 8.\n\nInterim Gabonese President Rose Francine Rogombé received the condolences of several world leaders following the death of Bongo.\n\nThe Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) declared a thirty-day period of mourning.\n\nA 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier between Cameroon and Gabon was postponed by FIFA following Bongo's death, with FEGAFOOT being informed by letter. The match was rescheduled for September 5.\n\nRose Francine Rogombé was sworn in as interim president on June 10, 2009, immediately declaring a period of mourning lasting thirty days. A government statement issued in the daily \"L'Union\" newspaper on June 11, declared that day and the day of the funeral a public holiday. Businesses and offices were shut down in Libreville, with the city's mayor ordering all bars and night clubs be closed until after the funeral.\n\nBongo's corpse was flown by aircraft from his deathplace in Barcelona and arrived at Libreville's airport on 11 June at approximately 16:15 pm (01:15 AEST). A crowd of around 10,000 people, including diplomats, politicians and members of the country's security forces were waiting at the airport for the dead President's arrival. Several people were tearful, including cabinet chief Pascaline, also known as Bongo's daughter, who lay emotional in the arms of President Denis Sassou Nguesso. Young people in the crowd were seen to wear T-shirts decorated with Bongo photos and slogans which read: \"I love and admire my president\". Officials were also emotional as they left the plane, Bongo's coffin in tow, draped in Gabon's national flag.\n\nThe coffin was lifted into a military vehicle and it drove off. It arrived at Bongo's oceanside presidential palace overlooking the Atlantic. There it lay in state until the President's state funeral on June 16, 2009.\n\nAlso on hand were Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac — the current and former French presidents and the only Western heads of state to attend. The pair arrived in a stretch limousine and were quickly escorted inside the palace as a group of people outside yelled, \"No to France!\" Sarkozy and Chirac later approached the coffin together and stood before it with their eyes lowered. They laid down a wreath of roses. Then, each signed a condolence book. Chad's President Idriss Deby, bowed his head before the coffin. Cameroon's Paul Biya, placed a wreath of flowers at the foot of the coffin, as did Burkina Faso's Blaise Compaore.\n\nA military parade was held to honour Bongo on 16 June 2009. Hundreds of thousands of people lined the streets to say farewell to Bongo, whose flag-draped coffin was paraded through Libreville. The state funeral began inside the marble halls of the presidential palace. The red carpet leading to his casket was strewn with white rose petals — flown in from France.\n\nIn a eulogy, Bongo's son and defence minister, Ali Ben Bongo said: \"You leave a peaceful, free and fair Gabon\".\"We, your children, your family, we take a solemn vow to keep the flame alive,\".\n\nDignitaries from many nations flew into Gabon to attend the funeral. This included approximately forty heads of state or their representatives, about a dozen of these were from within the African continent. Two French Presidents attended the funeral ceremony.\n\nPresident of the Central African Republic, François Bozizé, arrived in Libreville on June 11.\n\nSouth African International Relations and Cooperation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and Sizakele Makhumalo Zuma, the wife of President Jacob Zuma, left for Gabon on 15 June and planned to return to South Africa on 16 June.\n\nThe Angolan Prime Minister, António Paulo Kassoma, flew to Libreville on 15 June where he represented President José Eduardo dos Santos.\n\nThe French president Nicolas Sarkozy attended the funeral, despite a period of diplomatic difficulties between France and Gabon. Former French President Jacques Chirac and Sarkozy laid red and white coloured roses in wreaths at the coffin. Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner was also present at the ceremony. Chirac received cheers but Sarkozy was booed by crowd members who had gathered outside the presidential palace.\n\nSpanish Third Vice President, Manuel Chaves González, attended the funeral.\n\nOthers in attendance at the funeral included President of the Republic of the Congo, Denis Sassou Nguesso, President of Togo, Faure Gnassingbé, President of Cameroon, Paul Biya and Jean Ping, Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo of Equatorial Guinea, and the Presidents of Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Chad, Mali, Senegal and the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe.\n\nBongo was privately buried in his native village on 18 June 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "51422088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51422088", "title": "Death of Abdirahman Abdi", "text": "Death of Abdirahman Abdi\n\nThe death of Abdirahman Abdi, a Somali-Canadian, occurred on July 24, 2016, in the neighbourhood of Hintonburg in the Kitchissippi Ward of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Abdi died in a hospital after an incident with the Ottawa Police Service.\n\nAccording to his 27-year-old brother Abdiaziz, Abdirahman Abdi was 37 years old when he died. Abdi came to Canada in 2009 and worked in a car wash.\n\nAt approximately 9:30 a.m. on July 24, 2016, police were called to the Hintonburg Bridgehead coffee shop on the corner of Fairmont Avenue and Wellington Street West over allegations that Abdi was groping women there. J.M. Duval, a witness who was present at the coffee shop since 9:15 a.m., says he saw a commotion and that the front doors were locked as a group outside restrained Abdi. Duval says it looked like Abdi was trying to either flee or get back into the shop. Duval says he asked the allegedly assaulted woman (who had been taken to the back of the shop) in French what had happened and he says she said (translated) \"He groped me.\" repeatedly. Tracey Clark, the owner of Bridgehead who was not present during the incident, gave a statement on August 5 after speaking with staff and customers, describing Abdi as having harassed and assaulted multiple people in the shop. Clark mentioned this was not the first incident with him and that he would sometimes stare at customers and get too close to them. Clark said that they had previously intervened by asking Abdi if he was aware of what he was doing and if he could stop.\n\nAfter the Bridgehead confrontation, police pursued Abdi 250 metres (three blocks) and arrested him outside his apartment building at 55 Hilda Street. During that encounter, Abdi began to suffer \"medical distress\". Dispatchers sent an ambulance at 9:52 a.m., and a paramedic reported \"vital signs absent\" at 9:59 a.m.\n\nAbdi was later taken to the Ottawa Civic Hospital where a doctor informed the family he had died 45 minutes prior to arrival. His death was announced to the public at 3:17 p.m. on Monday, July 25.\n\nAs required under the Police Services Act, the provincial Special Investigations Unit (SIU) conducted an investigation into the incident. The SIU is required to investigate all reports of deaths, serious injuries, or sexual assaults in relation to provincial or municipal police officers.\n\nTwo Ottawa Police Service officers who were involved in the arrest – Constable David Weir and Constable Daniel Montsion – were designated as subject officers during the course of the investigation. Constable Weir was later re-classified as a witness officer, while Constable Montsion would be charged with manslaughter.\n\nOn March 6, 2017, the SIU laid charges against Constable Daniel Montsion for manslaughter, aggravated assault, and assault with a weapon in relation to the death of Abdi.\n\nThe Abdi family retained lawyer Lawrence Greenspon two days after his death on Wednesday July 27.\n\nAbdi's funeral was held on Friday, July 29 at the Ottawa (Main) Mosque, with 800 inside and more outside. Naeem Malik, President of the Ottawa Muslim Association, estimated total attendance at over 2,000 people. The funeral was led by Imam Mohamed Hachimi and a family statement was read by Imam Sikander Hashmi of the Kanata Muslim Association. Mayor Jim Watson spoke at the funeral.\n\nThe Canadian Somali Mothers' Association called for two officers to be removed and the Canadian Council of Muslim Women requested a critical look at the case.\n\nIn late August, Black Lives Matter's Toronto chapter protested the SIU in Mississauga in response to Abdi's death.\n"}
{"id": "9496190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9496190", "title": "Delara Darabi", "text": "Delara Darabi\n\nDelara Darabi () (29 September 19861 May 2009) was an Iranian Gilaki woman who was sentenced to death after having been convicted of murdering her father's female cousin in 2003. Although Delara initially claimed that she had committed the crime, she subsequently recanted and explained that her older boyfriend, Amir Hossein, had persuaded her to lie about the incident to protect him. According to Delara and other sources familiar with the case, Amir Hossein was the person who had committed the murder in an attempt to steal from a wealthy member of the Darabi family.\n\nDarabi served five years of a prison sentence for theft on death row after her conviction (In Iran, prisoners often have to serve time in prison before execution). She initially confessed, but later recanted, claiming her boyfriend, Amir Hossein, persuaded her to confess by convincing her that he would be executed (as she would not have been in most places, being a minor; but this was not the case in Iran).\n\nWhile on death row, Darabi, having developed a love of painting at an early age, completed several works that depicted her incarceration. In confinement, she also wrote poetry. Among her work is the poem entitled \"Prison\", a psychological and philosophical work on life in prison. A collection of her art was displayed at an exhibition in Tehran by supporters campaigning her release. Darabi's lawyer, Abdolsamad Khoramshahi, had appealed against the sentence, arguing that her conviction had been based solely on her confession and that her trial had failed to consider vital evidence.\n\nDarabi was born in the northern city of Rasht, in the province of Gilan. Darabi was hanged in the morning of 1 May 2009. The news of her hanging was announced to the world by Iranian-American lawyer, Lily Mazahery, who posted the information on Twitter.\n\nDarabi was tried by a lower court in Rasht, found guilty and sentenced to death. Her lawyer was Abdolsamad Khorramshahi. The sentence was upheld by the Supreme Court. She maintained her innocence, and claimed that she was under the influence of drugs during the burglary, despite making a confession and pleading guilty earlier. At this stage the Head of the Judiciary had the power to order a stay of execution and a review of the case. The boyfriend Amir Hossein has reportedly received a prison sentence of 10 years as an accessory to the crime.\n\nAmnesty International has made several public statements about Darabi.\n\nDarabi was a painter and wrote a few poems during her lifetime. She had used her paintings and poems to express her feelings. In 2008 there was an exhibition of her paintings in Tehran; a similar exhibition was held in Stockholm in April 2007.\n\nDarabi attempted suicide by cutting her wrists on 20 January 2007. However, her cellmate noticed and called for help. She was rushed to hospital, where she was revived.\n\nAn online petition to save Delara from execution was drafted and circulated around the world. The petition appealed to Iranian authorities, particularly the country's head of judiciary, to observe international treaties and standards and to commute Delara's sentence. However, there was no way the judiciary could do so, since the victim's family demanded qisas, or retribution (the death penalty) rather than diyya, which is blood money. Amnesty International arranged for letters in support of Darabi to be sent to Iranian authorities.\n\nAs a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), Iran has entered into diplomatic commitments not to execute persons for offences committed when they were under 18. Nevertheless, since 1990, Iran has executed at least 18 people for crimes committed when they were juveniles. In 2005 alone, despite being urged in the January by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child to suspend the practice immediately, at least eight juvenile offenders were executed, including two who were still under 18 at the time of their execution. Before Darabi's, the last recorded execution of a juvenile offender, Rostam Tajik, was on 10 December 2005.\n\nOn 9 December, Philip Alston, the UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, stated: \"At a time when virtually every other country in the world has firmly and clearly renounced the execution of people for crimes they committed as children, the Iranian approach is particularly unacceptable... it is all the more surprising because the obligation to refrain from such executions is not only clear and incontrovertible, but the Government of Iran has itself stated that it will cease this practice.\" \n\nAccording to the penal code of the Islamic Republic of Iran, children are considered criminally responsible for their actions as adults at the age of puberty. Pursuant to Article 1210, Addendum 1, girls reach the age of puberty 6 years before their male counterparts, at age of 9. Boys, on the other hand, are not legally considered to have reached the maturity that would make them responsible for their actions, such as murder, until the age of 15.\n\nHuman Rights Watch and Amnesty International say Iran executes the most juvenile offenders of any country, in breach of the UN Convention, which forbids the death penalty for crimes committed under the age of 18. Lawyers estimate 130 prisoners are on death row in Iran for murders committed as minors.\n\nThe head of the judiciary officially granted a two-month stay of execution, yet the go-ahead for her execution was given to Rasht prison authorities.\nDelara Darabi was executed at 5:00 AM local time on 1 May 2009 at Rasht Central Prison, without prior notification to her attorney and family. Just minutes before being hanged she was allowed to make a desperate last phone call to her parents, and she pleaded for them to save her, followed by the prison warden's voice informing her parents she was to be executed for her crimes immediately.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29817058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29817058", "title": "Douglas King (politician)", "text": "Douglas King (politician)\n\nCommodore Henry Douglas King CB, CBE, PC, DSO, VD (1 June 1877 – 20 August 1930), known as Douglas King, was a British naval commander and Conservative politician. He served under Stanley Baldwin as Financial Secretary to the War Office between 1924 and 1928 and as Secretary for Mines between 1928 and 1929.\n\nKing trained as a Merchant Navy officer in HMS Conway from 1891 to 1893. After Conway he served initially in the mercantile navy, then served in the Royal Navy before joining P & O. He left the sea in 1899 and took up farming for a short while. However, he soon turned to studying law and was called to the Bar, Middle Temple, in 1905. He stood as the Conservative candidate for Norfolk North in the two general elections of 1910, but was defeated on both occasions. At the outbreak of the First World War in 1914 he obtained a commission in the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve and served at the Siege of Antwerp and Gallipoli. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order in recognition of his services at Gallipoli in 1915. He was also given the French Croix de Guerre and was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1919.\n\nAt the 1918 general election King once again stood for Norfolk North and was this time elected. In parliament he initially served as Parliamentary Private Secretary to Sir Leslie Wilson, Chairman of the National Maritime Board, and then to Sir Hamar Greenwood, the Chief Secretary for Ireland. In 1921 he was appointed a Conservative whip. The following year he was returned to parliament for Paddington South and entered the government under Bonar Law as a Lord of the Treasury (government whip), a position he held until January 1924, the last year under the premiership of Stanley Baldwin. When the Conservatives returned to office in November 1924, King was made Financial Secretary to the War Office and a member of the Army Council. He held this post until 1928, and was then Secretary for Mines until the Baldwin administration fell in 1929. The latter year he was also sworn of the Privy Council following the 1929 Dissolution Honours. He had previously been made a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1927.\n\nKing married the only daughter of W. R. Swan, of Adelaide, Australia. On 20 August 1930 King's cutter yacht \"Islander\" sank in a gale off Fowey, Cornwall. All six aboard, including King himself, were lost. His memorial is at All Saints Church, Upper Sheringham, Norfolk. The memorial states that the yacht Islander was 'smashed to pieces' on the rocky coast of Lantivet Bay, Cornwall during a 'fierce summer storm'.\nIt goes on: \"At sunset in the calm stillness of a beautiful summer evening, his ashes were, by his own wish, taken out to sea by the Sheringham lifeboat and within sight of his old home scattered over the face of the waters\".\n"}
{"id": "14341419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14341419", "title": "Electrohydrogenesis", "text": "Electrohydrogenesis\n\nElectrohydrogenesis or biocatalyzed electrolysis is the name given to a process for generating hydrogen gas from organic matter being decomposed by bacteria. This process uses a modified fuel cell to contain the organic matter and water. A small amount, 0.2–0.8 V of electricity is used, the original article reports an overall energy efficiency of 288% can be achieved (this is computed relative to the amount of electricity used, waste heat lowers the overall efficiency). This work was reported by Cheng and Logan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25955610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25955610", "title": "Eutonology", "text": "Eutonology\n\nEutonology is a word that Henri Laborit used for referring to his study of the state of tension or responsiveness of the organs or tissues of the body under a condition of stress. \"Laboratoire d'eutonologie\" was the name of Laborit's laboratory at the Boucicaut Hospital in Paris in the late 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "40799888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40799888", "title": "Ex parte Steenkamp and Steenkamp", "text": "Ex parte Steenkamp and Steenkamp\n\nIn Ex Parte Steenkamp and Steenkamp, an important case in the South African law of succession, Mr. and Mrs. K. bequeathed a farm and certain movable property to their children born and to be born of their daughter. Their son-in-law subsequently murdered Mr. and Mrs. K. At the time of their deaths, Mr. and Mrs. K’s daughter and son-in-law had two children, and the daughter was pregnant with a third child. The \"nasciturus\" was born alive, but died when it was six months old. In terms of the Intestate Succession Act, Mr. and Mrs. K.’s daughter and son-in-law would inherit from their infant child.\n\nThe question before the court was whether this was permissible, as the son-in-law would indirectly benefit from the murders he committed. Three main issues were dealt with in Steyn J.’s judgment:\n\n\n\n\nAccordingly, the court held that the son-in-law could inherit from the child.\n\nThis judgment has been severely criticized. Writers believe that there was no \"novus actus interveniens\", and therefore that there was legal causation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1929099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1929099", "title": "Explosive rat", "text": "Explosive rat\n\nThe explosive rat, also known as a rat bomb, was a weapon developed by the British Special Operations Executive in World War II for use against Germany. Rat carcasses were filled with plastic explosives, and were to be distributed near German boiler rooms, where it was expected they would be disposed of by burning, with the subsequent explosion having a chance of causing a boiler explosion.\n\nThe explosive rats never saw use, as the first shipment was intercepted by the Germans; however, the resulting search for more booby trapped rats consumed enough German resources for the SOE to conclude that the operation was a success.\n\nDuring World War II, the British Special Operations Executive procured about a hundred rodents for medical experiments. The rodents were killed and plastic explosives sewn inside them.\n\nThe idea, developed in 1941, was that when the dead rat was discovered in the boiler room of a locomotive, factory, power station, or similar installation, the stoker tending the boiler would dispose of the unpleasant discovery by shoveling it into the furnace, causing the booby trapped rat to explode. A rat could contain only a small amount of explosive; however, a penetration of a highly pressurized steam boiler could trigger a devastating boiler explosion. A rat bomb could also be set with a delayed fuse.\n\nThe first shipment of carcasses was intercepted by the Germans, and the SOE plan was dropped. The Germans exhibited the rats at top military schools and conducted searches for further exploding rats. The SOE concluded: \"The trouble caused to them was a much greater success to us than if the rats had actually been used.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46372134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46372134", "title": "Grindhouse Wetware", "text": "Grindhouse Wetware\n\nGrindhouse Wetware is an open source biotechnology startup company based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Grindhouse applies the biohacker ethic to create technology that augments human capabilities. The company is most well known for their Circadia device, a wireless biometric sensor that was implanted into co-founder Tim Cannon in October 2013. Grindhouse has been featured in television shows such as \"Taboo\" on National Geographic Channel, \"Joe Rogan Questions Everything\" on Syfy, \"The Big Picture with Kal Penn\", as well as podcasts including Future Grind and Roderick Russell's Remarkably Human.\n\nIn November 2015, Grindhouse members Tim Cannon, Shawn Sarver, Justin Worst, Jessica Waldrip, Michael Seeler, and Marlo Webber had prototypes of Grindhouse's Northstar device implanted into during simultaneous procedures occurring at the \"Cyborg Fair\" in Düsseldorf, Germany and at a studio in Pittsburgh. The implantation procedure was featured in an episode of the MTV documentary series \"True Life\". Also featured in the episode was the public debut of the morse code functionality of Grindhouse's Bottlenose device at the first Pittsburgh Maker Faire.\n\n"}
{"id": "54255942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54255942", "title": "Henry Popham", "text": "Henry Popham\n\nHenry Popham, Esq. (c. 1349 – 17 June 1418) was an English landowner and Member of Parliament.\n\nHe was a younger son of Sir John Popham of Popham, Hampshire whom he eventually succeeded to the Manor of Buckland.\n\nHe served on a number of local commissions and was appointed High Sheriff of Hampshire for 1388-89.\n\nHe was elected Member of Parliament seven times for Hampshire in 1383, 1385, 1388 (twice), 1390, 1394 and 1404.\n\nHenry Popham, Esq., died 17 June 1418, and was buried at Lymington, Hampshire. He left a will dated 6 Nov. 1417, proved 22 June 1418. He married (1st) before Easter term 1376 (date of lawsuit) Joan _____, grand-daughter and co-heiress of John Aucher, of Bickton (in Fordingbridge), Hampshire and Fisherton Anger, Wiltshire, by whom he had one son, Sir Stephen Popham. He married (2nd) Margaret, widow of Richard Mewes, of Long Barnes (in Beauchamp Roding), Essex, and daughter of John James, of Rush Court (in Wallingford), Berkshire, by Christine, daughter of John Anesty. They had one son, John. His widow, Margaret, died 11 June 1448.\n"}
{"id": "18586060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18586060", "title": "Ice People", "text": "Ice People\n\nIce People is a documentary film directed by Anne Aghion about the research of Allan Ashworth and Adam Lewis in Antarctica. Produced by Dry Valleys Productions, this 2008 film portrays the scientists discovering fossils from 13.9 million years ago. The film premiered at the San Francisco International Film Festival in April 2008 and was screened at the Jerusalem Film Festival in July 2008. This film aired on Sundance Channel in 2009.\n\n\"Ice People\" brings Anne Aghion and her crew to Antarctica where they spent four months following the lives of North Dakota State University geologist professors Allan Ashworth and Adam Lewis, as well as the McMurdo Station staff over four months. The film crew then followed the professors and two undergraduate students into the field where they camped out and shot in conditions of extreme cold and winds that ranged from -50°C/-60°F to 0°C/32°F. The film shows the scientific team scouring ancient emptied lakebeds in the hope of finding evidence of plants and insects that would prove that the world's coldest continent was once warm and verdant roughly 14 to 20 million years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "10674054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10674054", "title": "Ideal observer theory", "text": "Ideal observer theory\n\nIdeal observer theory is the meta-ethical view which claims that:\n\nIn other words, ideal observer theory states that ethical judgments should be interpreted as statements about the judgments that a neutral and fully informed observer would make; \"\"x\" is good\" means \"an ideal observer would approve of \"x\"\".\n\nThis makes ideal observer theory arguably a subjectivist yet universalist form of cognitivism, though arguably the abstract \"ideal observer\" may be seen as an objective reference point, thus making ideal observer theory a form of ethical objectivism. Ideal observer theory stands in opposition to other forms of ethical subjectivism (e.g.moral relativism, and individualist ethical subjectivism), as well as to moral realism (which claims that moral propositions refer to objective facts, independent of anyone's attitudes or opinions), error theory (which denies that any moral propositions are true in any sense), and non-cognitivism (which denies that moral sentences express propositions at all).\n\nWhile Adam Smith and David Hume are recognized to have espoused early versions of the ideal observer theory, Roderick Firth is responsible for starting a more sophisticated modern version. According to Firth, an ideal observer has the following specific characteristics: omniscience with respect to nonmoral facts, omnipercipience, disinterestedness, dispassionateness, consistency, and normalcy in all other respects. Notice that, by defining an Ideal Observer as omniscient with respect to nonmoral facts, Firth avoids circular logic that would arise from defining an ideal observer as omniscient in both nonmoral and moral facts. A complete knowledge of morality is not born of itself but is an emergent property of Firth's minimal requirements. There are also sensible restrictions to the trait of omniscience with respect to nonmoral facts. For instance, a geological event in another solar system is hardly something necessary to know to make a moral judgment about a case of theft or murder on Earth.\n\nThose proposing the ideal observer theory do not necessarily assert that any real ideal observers actually exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "44353369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44353369", "title": "Induced-charge electrokinetics", "text": "Induced-charge electrokinetics\n\nInduced-charge electrokinetics in physics is the electrically driven fluid flow and particle motion in a liquid electrolyte. Consider a metal particle (which is neutrally charged but electrically conducting) in contact with an aqueous solution in a chamber/channel. If different voltages apply to the end of this chamber/channel, electric field will generate in this chamber/channel. This applied electric field passes through this metal particle and causes the free charges inside the particle migrate under the skin of particle. As a result of this migration, the negative charges moves to the side which is close to the positive (or higher) voltage while the positive charges moves to the opposite side of the particle. These charges under the skin of conducting particle attract the counter-ions of the aqueous solution; thus, the electric double layer (EDL) forms around the particle. The EDL sing on the surface of the conducting particle changes from positive to negative and the distribution of the charges varies along the particle geometry. Due to these variations, the EDL is non-uniform and has different sings. Thus, the induced zeta potential around the particle, and consequently slip velocity on the surface of the particle, vary as a function of local electric field. Differences in magnitude and direction of slip velocity on the surface of the conducting particle effects the flow pattern around this particle and causes micro vortices. Yasaman Daghighi and Dongqing Li, for the first time, experimentally illustrated these induced vortices around a 1.2mm diameter carbon-steel sphere under the 40V/cm direct current (DC) external electric filed.\nChenhui Peng et al. also experimentally showed the patterns of electro-osmotic flow around an Au sphere when alternating current (AC) is involved (E=10mV/μm, f=1 kHz).\nElectrokinetics here refers to a branch of science related to the motion and reaction of charged particles to the applied electric filed and its effects on its environment. It is sometimes referred as non-linear electrokinetic phenomena as well.\nLevich is one of the pioneers in induced-charge electrokinetic field. He calculated the perturbed slip profile around a conducting particle in contact with electrolyte. He also theoretically predicted that vortices induced around this particle once the electric filed is applied.\n\nThe size and strength of the induced vortices around a conducting particle have direct relationship with the applied electric filed and also the size of the conducted surface. This phenomenon is experimentally and numerically proven by several studies, The vortices grow as the external electric field increases and generate \"sinkhole\" at the center of the each vortex while circulates the fluid faster. It is demonstrated that increasing the size of the conducting surface forms bigger induced vortices to the point that geometry does not limits this grows.\n\nThe induced vortices have many applications in various aspects of electrokinetic microfluidics. There are many micro-mixers that are designed and fabricated based on the existence of their induced vortices in the microfluidics devices. Such micro-mixers which are used for biochemical, medicine, biology applications has no mechanical parts and only use conducting surfaces to generate induced vortices to mix the different fluid streams,\n\nThis phenomenon even is used to trap the micron and submicron particles floating in flow inside a microchannel. This method can be used to manipulate, detect, handle, and concentrate cells and virus in biomedical field; or, for colloidal particle assembly.\n\nIn addition the induced vortices around the conducting surfaces in a microfluidic system can be used as a micro-valve, micro-actuator, micro-motor and micro-regulator to control the direction and manipulation.\n\n"}
{"id": "780287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780287", "title": "Juan Marichal", "text": "Juan Marichal\n\nJuan Antonio Marichal Sánchez (born October 20, 1937) is a Dominican former professional baseball player. He played as a right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball, most notably for the San Francisco Giants. Marichal was known for his high leg kick, pinpoint control and intimidation tactics, which included aiming pitches directly at the opposing batters' helmets.\n\nMarichal also played for the Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers for the final two seasons of his career. Although he won more games than any other pitcher during the 1960s, he appeared in only one World Series game and he was often overshadowed by his contemporaries Sandy Koufax and Bob Gibson in post-season awards. Marichal was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1983.\n\nJuan Marichal was born on October 20, 1937, in the small farming village of Laguna Verde, Dominican Republic, the youngest of Francisco and Natividad Marichal's four children. He has two brothers, Gonzalo and Rafael, and a sister, Maria. His father died of an unknown illness when Marichal was three years old. His house did not have electricity, but food was plentiful since his family owned a farm. As a child, Marichal worked on the farm daily and was responsible for taking care of his family's horses, donkeys, and goats. He lived near the Yaque del Norte River and often spent time swimming and fishing. One day while Marichal was playing by the river, he fell unconscious owing to poor digestion and was in a coma for nine days. Doctors did not expect him to survive, but he slowly regained consciousness after his family gave him steam baths by doctor's orders.\n\nHis older brother Gonzalo instilled a love of baseball in young Marichal and taught him the fundamentals of pitching, fielding, and batting. Every weekend, Marichal played the sport with his brother and friends. For their games, they found golf balls and paid the local shoemaker one peso to sew thick cloth around the ball to make it the proper size. They employed branches from a wassama tree for bats and canvas tarps for gloves. Among his childhood playmates were the Alou brothers, Felipe, Jesús, and Matty, who all later played with Marichal on the San Francisco Giants. From the age of six, Marichal aspired to become a professional baseball player, but his mother discouraged this, instead urging him to get an education. At the time, there were no players from the Dominican Republic in Major League Baseball, and his goal was viewed to be unrealistic. At age 11, he briefly held a job cutting sugar cane for the J.W. Tatem Shipping conglomerate.\n\nIn 1954, sixteen-year-old Marichal joined a summer league in Monte Cristi, playing for a team called Las Flores. Although he began at shortstop, Marichal switched to pitcher after taking inspiration from Bombo Ramos of the Dominican national team. He left high school after being recruited to play for the United Fruit Company team in 1956.\n\nMarichal's delivery was renowned for one of the fullest windups in modern baseball, with a high kick of his left leg that went nearly vertical (even more so than Warren Spahn's delivery). Marichal maintained this delivery his entire career, and photographs taken near his retirement show the vertical kick only diminished. The windup was the key to his delivery in that he was consistently able to conceal the type of pitch until it was on its way.\n\nMarichal was discovered by Ramfis Trujillo, the son of late Dominican dictator Rafael Leónidas Trujillo. Ramfis was the primary sponsor of the Dominican Air Force Baseball Team (Aviación Dominicana), against which Marichal pitched a 2–1 victory game in his native Monte Cristi. From the very moment the game ended, Marichal was a member of Aviación Dominicana team, enlisted to the Air Force right on the spot by Ramfis's orders.\n\nMarichal entered the major leagues on July 19, with the San Francisco Giants as the second native pitcher to come from the Dominican Republic. He made an immediate impression: in his debut, on July 19, 1960 against the Philadelphia Phillies, he took a no hitter into the eighth inning only to surrender a two-out single to Clay Dalrymple. He ended up with a one-hit shutout, walking one and striking out 12. He started 10 more games that season, finishing at 6–2 with a 2.66 ERA. He improved his victory totals to 13 and 18 over the following two seasons, respectively, before finally cracking the 20-victory plateau in 1963, when he went 25–8 with 248 strikeouts and a 2.41 ERA. He appeared in every All-Star game of the 1960s beginning in 1962. In May 1966, he was named NL Player of the Month with a 6-0 record, a 0.97 ERA, and 42 SO. On July 14, 1967, he surrendered the 500th Home Run of Eddie Mathews' career.\n\nMarichal enjoyed similar success through the 1969 season, posting more than 20 victories in every season except 1967, and never posting an ERA higher than 2.76. He led the league in victories in 1963 and 1968 when he won 26 games. In 1968, he also finished in the highest rank of his career in MVP voting, finishing fifth behind Bob Gibson, Pete Rose, Willie McCovey, and Curt Flood. He and Sandy Koufax were the only two Major League pitchers in the post-war era (1946–present) to have more than one season of 25 or more wins; both pitchers had three such seasons in their careers.\n\nMarichal won more games during the decade of the 1960s (191) than any other major league pitcher, but did not receive any votes for the Cy Young Award until 1970, when baseball writers started voting for the top three pitchers in each league rather than one per league (or, until 1967, only the top pitcher in MLB). Marichal finished in the top 10 in ERA seven consecutive years, starting in 1963 and culminating in 1969, in which year he led the league. During his career, he also finished in the top 10 in strikeouts six times, top 10 in innings pitched eight times (leading the league twice), and top 10 in complete games 10 times, with a career total of 244. He led the league twice in shutouts, throwing 10 of them in 1965.\n\nMarichal exhibited exceptional control. He had 2,303 strikeouts with only 709 walks, a strikeout-to-walk ratio of 3.25 to 1. This ranks among the top 20 pitchers of all time, ahead of such notables as Bob Gibson, Nolan Ryan, Steve Carlton, Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale, Walter Johnson and Roger Clemens, who each have strikeout-to-walk ratios of less than 3:1. Over his career, he led the league in the fewest walks per nine innings four times, and finished second three times – totaling eleven years in which he finished in the top 10, all while also finishing in the top 10 for strikeouts six years.\n\nOne regular-season game in Marichal's career deserves mention, involving him and Milwaukee Braves' Hall of Famer Warren Spahn in a night contest played July 2, 1963, before almost 16,000 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco. The two great pitchers matched scoreless innings until Giants outfielder Willie Mays homered off Spahn to win the game 1–0 in the 16th inning. Both Spahn and Marichal tossed 15-plus inning complete games, something that had not happened before or since in the big leagues. Marichal allowed eight hits (all singles except for a double hit by Spahn) in the 16 innings, striking out 10, and saddling eventual career home run king Hank Aaron with an 0-for-6 collar. Spahn permitted nine hits in 15 innings, walking just one (Mays intentionally, in the 14th, after Harvey Kuenn's leadoff double) and striking out two. The game, almost the innings-duration of two contests, lasted only 4 hours, 10 minutes. By coincidence, future Major League Baseball commissioner Bud Selig attended the game as a fan.\n\nMarichal is also remembered for a notorious incident that occurred with John Roseboro during a game between the Giants and Los Angeles Dodgers at Candlestick Park on August 22, . The Giant-Dodger rivalry was, at the time, the fiercest in baseball - a rivalry which began when both teams played in the New York City market. As the 1965 season neared its climax, the Giants were involved in a tight pennant race, entering the game trailing the Dodgers by a game and a half while the Milwaukee Braves were one game behind the Dodgers.\n\nMaury Wills led off the game with a bunt single off Marichal and scored when Ron Fairly hit a double. Marichal, a fierce competitor, viewed the bunt as a cheap way to get on base and took umbrage with Wills. When Wills came up to bat in the second inning, Marichal threw a pitch directly at Wills sending him sprawling to the ground. Willie Mays then led off the bottom of the second inning for the Giants and Dodgers' pitcher Sandy Koufax threw a pitch over Mays' head as a token form of retaliation. In the top of the third inning with two outs, Marichal threw a fastball that came close to hitting Fairly, prompting him to dive to the ground. Marichal's act angered the Dodgers and home plate umpire Shag Crawford warned both teams any further retaliations would not be tolerated.\n\nMarichal came to bat in the third inning expecting Koufax to throw at him. Instead, Marichal was startled when, after the second pitch, Roseboro's return throw to Koufax either brushed his ear or came close enough for Marichal to feel the breeze off the ball. When Marichal confronted Roseboro, Roseboro came out of his crouch with his fists clenched. Marichal later said he thought Roseboro was about to attack him. Marichal raised his bat, striking Roseboro at least twice on the head, opening a two-inch gash that sent blood flowing down the catcher's face. Roseboro later required 14 stitches. Koufax raced in from the mound to attempt to separate them and was joined by the umpires, players and coaches from both teams.\n\nA 14-minute brawl ensued on the field before Koufax, Giants captain Willie Mays and other peacemakers restored order. Marichal was ejected from the game and afterwards, National League president Warren Giles suspended him for eight games (two starts), fined him a then-NL record US$1,750 (), and also forbade him from traveling to Dodger Stadium for the final, crucial two-game series of the season. Roseboro filed a $110,000 damage suit against Marichal one week after the incident but, eventually settled out of court for $7,500.\n\nMany people protested the apparently light punishment meted out, since it would cost Marichal only two starts. The Giants were in a tight pennant race with the Dodgers (as well as the Pirates, Reds, and Braves) and the race was decided with only two games to play. The Giants, who ended up winning the August 22 game and were down only game afterward, eventually lost the pennant to the Dodgers by 2 games. Ironically, the Giants went on a 14-game win streak that started during Marichal's absence and by then it was a two-team race as the Pirates, Reds, and Braves fell further behind. But then the Dodgers won 15 of their final 16 games (after Marichal had returned) to win the pennant. Marichal won in his first game back, 2–1 vs. the Astros on September 9 (the same day Koufax pitched his perfect game vs. the Cubs), but lost his last three decisions as the Giants slumped in the season's final week.\n\nMarichal didn't face the Dodgers again until spring training in April 3, . In his first at bat against Marichal since the incident, Roseboro hit a three-run home run. San Francisco General Manager Chub Feeney approached Dodgers General Manager Buzzy Bavasi to attempt to arrange a handshake between Marichal and Roseboro however, Roseboro declined the offer.\n\nYears later, Roseboro stated that he was retaliating for Marichal having thrown at Wills. He explained that Koufax would not throw at batters for fear of hurting them due to the velocity of his pitches. He further stated that his throwing close to Marichal's ear was, \"standard operating procedure\", as a form of retribution. After years of bitterness, Roseboro and Marichal became close friends in the 1980s, getting together occasionally at Old-Timers games, golf tournaments and charity events.\n\nIn 1970, Marichal experienced a severe reaction to penicillin which led to back pain and chronic arthritis. Marichal's career stumbled in , when he only posted 12 wins and his ERA shot up to 4.12, before straightening itself out with a stellar 1971 season in which he won 18 games and his ERA dropped below 3.00. It was the only season in which Marichal earned any consideration for the Cy Young Award, finishing in 8th place. It was his final great season (and his final of nine All-Star appearances), however, as he posted 6–16 and 11–15 records in 1972 and 1973 respectively.\n\nAfter the 1973 season, the Giants sold Marichal to the Boston Red Sox. He had a fairly solid 1974, going 5–1 in 11 starts, but was released after the season. He then signed with the Dodgers as a free agent. Dodger fans had never forgiven Marichal for his attack on Roseboro 10 years earlier, and it took a personal appeal from Roseboro to calm them down. However, Marichal's 1975 didn't last long; he was lit up for nine runs, 11 hits and a 13.50 ERA in only two starts before retiring. He finished his career with 243 victories, 142 losses, 244 complete games, 2,303 strikeouts and a 2.89 ERA over 3,507 innings pitched. He played in the 1962 World Series against the New York Yankees (one start, a no decision) and the 1971 National League Championship Series against the Pittsburgh Pirates (losing his only start). Between 1962 and 1971, the Giants averaged 90 wins a season, and Marichal averaged 20 wins a year.\n\nMarichal pitched a no-hitter on June 15, , and was named to nine All-Star teams. He was selected the Most Valuable Player of the 1965 game in Minneapolis, in which he pitched three shutout innings and faced the minimum nine batters, giving up one hit. His overall All-Star Game record was 2–0 with a 0.50 ERA in eight appearances facing 62 batters in 18 total innings, second-most in innings pitched only to Don Drysdale (19.1 innings; 2-1, 1.40 ERA and 69 batters faced).\n\nMarichal was passed over for election to the Baseball Hall of Fame during his first two years of eligibility, by all accounts because the Baseball Writers' Association of America voters still held his attack on Roseboro against him. However, after a personal appeal by Roseboro, Marichal was elected in 1983, and thanked Roseboro in his induction speech. When Roseboro died in 2002, Marichal served as an honorary pallbearer at his funeral and told the gathered, \"Johnny's forgiving me was one of the best things that happened in my life. I wish I could have had John Roseboro as my catcher.\"\n\nMarichal's uniform number 27 has been retired by the Giants. In , Marichal, who was working as a broadcaster for Spanish radio, was on hand to see his son-in-law at the time, José Rijo, win the World Series Most Valuable Player Award. In , he ranked #71 on \"The Sporting News\"' list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, and was a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. He was honored before a game between the Giants and Oakland Athletics with a statue outside AT&T Park in 2005, and was named one of the three starting pitchers on Major League Baseball's Latino Legends Team. In 1976, sportswriter Harry Stein published an \"All Time All-Star Argument Starter\", consisting of five ethnic baseball teams. Marichal was the right-handed pitcher on Stein's Latin team. The Giants also honored him by wearing jerseys that said \"Gigantes.\" Marichal was inducted into the Hispanic Heritage Baseball Museum Hall of Fame on July 20, 2003 in pregame on field ceremony at Pac Bell Park.\nIn 2015 the Estadio Quisqueya in his home country was renamed \"Quisqueya stadium Juan Marichal\" after him.\n\nIn 2008, Marichal was filmed at a cockfight in the Dominican Republic along with New York Mets pitcher Pedro Martínez. The incident caused controversy in the United States, but Martinez defended their attendance at the cockfight by saying, \"I understand that people are upset, but that is part of our Dominican culture and is legal in the Dominican Republic\". He added, \"I was invited by my idol, Juan Marichal, to attend the event as a spectator, not as a participant.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42522469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42522469", "title": "Lorentz Creutz", "text": "Lorentz Creutz\n\nLorentz Creutz (; 1615–1 June 1676) was a Swedish \"friherre\" (roughly equivalent to a baron), government administrator, county governor (\"landshövding\") of Kopparberg County (1655–62), member of the Privy Council and supreme commander of the Swedish navy for a few months in 1676.\n\nHe successfully served as an administrator in the Treasury in later years and was appointed as navy commander in early 1676 during the Scanian War. However, his complete lack of naval military experience combined with the generally poor state of the Swedish fleet led to his death on \"Kronan\", the flagship of the navy, at the battle of Öland on 1 June 1676.\n\nCreutz married the \"friherrinna\" (roughly baroness) Elsa Duwall (1620–1675), daughter of general Jakob MacDougall (ennobled as \"Duvall\") and Anna von der Berge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "838139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=838139", "title": "Lycurgus of Sparta", "text": "Lycurgus of Sparta\n\nLycurgus (; , \"Lykoûrgos\", ; 820 BC) was the quasi-legendary lawgiver of Sparta who established the military-oriented reformation of Spartan society in accordance with the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi. All his reforms promoted the three Spartan virtues: equality (among citizens), military fitness, and austerity.\n\nHe is referred to by ancient historians and philosophers Herodotus, Xenophon, Plato, Polybius, Plutarch, and Epictetus. It is not clear if Lycurgus was an actual historical figure; however, many ancient historians believed that he instituted the communalistic and militaristic reforms - most notably the Great Rhetra - which transformed Spartan society.\n\nMost information about Lycurgus comes from Plutarch's \"Life of Lycurgus\" (part of \"Parallel Lives\"), which is more of an anecdotal collection than a real biography. Plutarch himself remarks that nothing can be known for certain about Lycurgus, since different authors give different accounts of almost everything about him. The actual person Lycurgus may or may not have existed, -- it is possible that \"Lycourgos\" was an epithet of the god Apollo as he was worshiped in very early Sparta, and that later legend transformed this aspect of the god into a wise human lawgiver --but as a symbolic founder of the Spartan state he was looked to as the initiator of many of its social and political institutions; much, therefore, of Plutarch's account is concerned with finding the \"origin\" of contemporary Spartan practices. The dates of Lycurgus have been given by ancient and modern authorities as being as early as the tenth century BC and as late as the sixth century BC. Some scholars think the most plausible date is indicated by Thucydides, who said that in his time the Spartan constitution was over four hundred years old; this would imply a date for Lycurgus, or at least for the reforms attributed to him, of the last quarter of the ninth century BC.\n\nIt is said that Lycurgus had risen to power when his older brother, the king, had died. With his father deceased, he was offered the throne. Lycurgus' brother, however, had died with a pregnant wife. When this child was born, Lycurgus named the child, \"Charilaus\" (\"joy of the people\") and transferred his kingship to the baby. After that, Lycurgus was said to be a man who could lay down the supreme power easily out of respect for justice, so it was easy for Lycurgus to rule the Spartans in his capacity as the guardian of his nephew Charilaus. However, the young king's mother and her relatives envied and hated Lycurgus. Among other slanders, they accused Lycurgus of plotting the death of Charilaus.\n\nLycurgus finally decided that the only way that he might avoid blame in case something should happen to the child would be to go travelling until Charilaus had grown up and fathered a son to secure the succession. Therefore, Lycurgus gave up all of his authority set out on a celebrated, though no doubt legendary, journey. His first destination was Crete, like Sparta a Dorian land, where he studied the laws of Minos. Spartan and Cretan institutions did indeed have common characteristics, but, though some direct borrowing may have occurred, such similarities are in general more likely to be because of the common Dorian inheritance of Sparta and Crete rather than because some individual such as Lycurgus imported Cretan customs to Sparta. Traveling after that to Asia Minor, homeland of the Ionian Greeks, he found it instructive to compare the refined and luxurious life style of the Ionians with the stern and disciplined culture of the Dorians. Some say that Lycurgus subsequently traveled as far as Egypt, Spain, and India. In Ionia, Lycurgus discovered the works of Homer. Lycurgus compiled the scattered fragments of Homer and made sure that the lessons of statecraft and morality in Homer's epics became widely known. According to Plutarch, the Egyptians claim that Lycurgus visited them too, and that he got from the Egyptians the idea of separating the military from the menial workers, thus refining later Spartan society, in which Spartans were not allowed to practice manual crafts.\n\nAfter Lycurgus had been absent for a while, the Spartans wrote and begged Lycurgus to come back. As they admitted, only Lycurgus was really a king in their heart, although others wore a crown and claimed the title. He had the true foundation of sovereignty: a nature born to rule, and a talent for inspiring obedience. Even the Spartan kings wanted Lycurgus to return because they saw him as one who could protect them from the people.\n\nLycurgus had already decided that some fundamental changes would have to be made in Sparta. When he returned, he did not merely tinker with the laws, but instead followed the example of the wisest ephors to implement incremental change.\n\nFirst, however, Lycurgus went to the Oracle at Delphi to ask for guidance. The Oracle told Lycurgus that his prayers had been heard and that the state which observed the laws of Lycurgus would become the most famous in the world. With such an endorsement, Lycurgus went to the leading men of Sparta and enlisted their support.\n\nHe began with his closest friends, then these friends widened the conspiracy by bringing in their own friends. When things were ripe for action, thirty of them appeared at dawn in the marketplace, fully armed for battle. At first, Charilaus thought they meant to kill him, and he ran for sanctuary in a temple, but eventually he joined the conspirators when he found out that all they wanted was to make sure there would be no opposition to the reforms Lycurgus had in mind.\n\nAccording to the legend found in Plutarch's \"Lives\" and other sources, when Lycurgus became confident in his reforms, he announced that he would go to the oracle at Delphi to sacrifice to Apollo. However, before leaving for Delphi he called an assembly of the people of Sparta and made everyone, including the kings and Gerousia, take an oath binding them to observe his laws until he returned. He made the journey to Delphi and consulted the oracle, which told him that his laws were excellent and would make his people famous. He then disappeared from history. One explanation was that being satisfied by this he starved himself to death instead of returning home, forcing the citizens of Sparta by oath to keep his laws indefinitely. He later enjoyed a hero-cult in Sparta.\n\nLycurgus is credited with the formation of many Spartan institutions integral to the country's rise to power, but more importantly the complete and undivided allegiance to Sparta from its citizens, which was implemented under his form of government.\n\nLycurgus is said to have been the originator of the Spartan \"Homoioi,\" the \"Equals,\" citizens who had no wealth differentiation among them, an early example of distributism, insofar as the citizens (not the Helots) were concerned. This radical lifestyle differentiated the Spartans once again from other Greeks of their time.\n\nThe first reform instituted by Lycurgus involved establishing a Gerousia of twenty-eight men, who would have a power equal to the two royal houses of Sparta. The people had the right to vote on important questions, but the Gerousia decided when a vote would be taken. As Plutarch puts it, a Gerousia \"allays and qualifies the fiery genius of the royal office\" and gives some stability and safety to the commonwealth, like the ballast in a ship. Before, Sparta had oscillated between the extremes of democracy and tyranny: anarchy and dictatorship. With the addition of the Gerousia, which resisted both extremes, the government became stable and the people and their rulers respected each other.\n\nTo accomplish this equality, Plutarch, in his \"Life of Lycurgus\", attributes to Lycurgus a thoroughgoing land reform, a reassignment and equalizing of landholdings and wealth among the population, To support this new land division, Lycurgus was said to have divided the country all around Laconia into 30,000 equal shares, and the part attached to the city of Sparta in particular into 9,000; all shares were distributed among the Spartans. Helots (the population of the territories the Spartans had captured in their wars in Laconia) were attached to the land, not to individual owners; hence, all slaves were property of the state.\nTo further support equality, Lycurgus, according to Plutarch, forbade the use of gold and silver, using the strategy of introducing money called pelanors made of iron which had been weakened by it being cooled in a vinegar bath after being turned red-hot, and calling in all gold and silver, in order to defeat greed and dependence on money. The new money, besides being almost intrinsically worthless, was bulky, and hence hard to transport. This move was seen by Plutarch also as a way of isolating Sparta from outside trade, and developing its internal arts and crafts, so as to prevent foreign influences and the decadence of markets.\n\nAnother way to create equality was the Spartan institution of the sussita/syssitia, the practice that required all Spartan men to eat together in common mess halls. Plutarch describes the institution as consisting of companies (\"syssitia\", or \"eating-together\" groups) of about fifteen men, each bound to bring in and contribute each month a bushel of meal, 8 gallons of wine, 5 pounds of cheese, 2 and a half pounds of figs, and a small amount of money to buy meat or fish with. When any member made a personal sacrifice to the gods, he would send some portion to the syssition, and when any member hunted, he sent part of the animal he had killed, to share with his messmates. Personal sacrifices of this sort and hunting were the only excuses that allowed a man to justify eating at his own home, instead of with the mess hall (syssition): otherwise, men were expected to eat daily with their syssition comrades. Even kings were apparently expected to take part in a mess hall, and were not to eat privately at home with their wives. Spartan women apparently ate together with and spent most of their time with each other, and not their husbands or sons older than seven (see below on the \"agoge\").\n\nHe was also credited with the development of the \"agoge\". The practice took all seven-year-old boys from the care of their fathers and placed them in a rigorous military regiment.\n\nLycurgus himself was said to be mild, gentle, forgiving, and calm in temper, even when attacked; he was thought to have been extraordinarily sober and an extremely hard worker, all qualities that other Greeks admired in the Spartans; in this sense he was also the \"founder\" of the admirable qualities displayed by contemporary Spartans of later ages.\n\nSome further refinements of the Spartan constitution came after Lycurgus. It turned out that sometimes the public speakers would pervert the sense of propositions and thus cause the people to vote foolishly, so the Gerousia reserved the right to dissolve the assembly if they saw this happening.\n\nA hundred and thirty years after the death of Lycurgus, a council of five ephors took executive power from the kings. When King Theopompus, in whose reign the ephors were established, was scolded by his wife for leaving his son less royal power than he had inherited, he replied: \"No, it is greater, because it will last longer.\" With their decision-making power reduced, the Spartan kings were freed of the jealousy of the people. They never went through what happened in nearby Messene and Argos, where the kings held on so tight to every last bit of power that in the end they wound end up losing it all.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, Lycurgus traveled to Crete, Asia Minor and possibly to Egypt before he drew up his constitution.\n\nThe Cretan constitution was said to have influenced that of Lycurgus for Sparta. \nAnother inspiration for his constitution was the Ionian way of life, that attached more importance to pleasurable life. \nPlutarch also gives some credence to the idea Lycurgus visited Egypt and was influenced by their way of separating the soldiers from those who did manual labor. \n\nLycurgus is depicted at the Palais de Justice in Brussels.\n\nHe is also depicted in several U.S. government buildings because of his legacy as a lawgiver. Lycurgus is one of the 23 lawgivers depicted in marble bas-reliefs in the chamber of the U.S. House of Representatives in the United States Capitol. The bas-relief was sculpted by Carl Paul Jennewein. Lycurgus is also depicted on the frieze on the south wall of the U.S. Supreme Court building.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47039714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47039714", "title": "Maputeoa", "text": "Maputeoa\n\nTe Maputeoa (baptized Gregorio Stanislas; reigned as Gregorio I; born c. 1814 – 20 June 1857) was a monarch of the Polynesian island of Mangareva and the other Gambier Islands. He was the King or \"ʻAkariki\" (paramount chief), as well as the penultimate king of the island of Mangareva, and other Gambier Islands including Akamaru, Aukena, Taravai and Temoe. He reigned from 1830 until his death in 1857.\n\nDuring Maputeoa's reign, the country, which was deeply rooted in idolatry and even cannibalism, became a Roman Catholic community. This was accomplished by removing all vestiges of idolatry, such as destroying the traditional wooden images of their indigenous faith deified in \"maraes\" and replacing them with churches. The king was baptized into Catholicism on 25 August 1836. He learned about Christianity from the island's missionaries, headed by the French Picpus priests, Honoré Laval and François Caret. His uncle Matua, the High Priest of the local temple, also played a pivotal role in this activity.\n\nMaputeoa was the grandson of Mapurure (also known as Te Mateoa), who was known to be alive in 1825 and said to have died in 1830 or 1832. As Mapurure's son Te Ikatohara was killed by sharks in about 1824, Maputeoa, the grandson, became king after Mapurure's death. Because he was a minor, Maputeoa's uncle, Matua, the High Priest (\"taura tupua\"), became the regent; Matua enjoyed the full trust of his people and may have had intentions of usurping power. Maputeoa had complete authority over the kingdom, excepting his four uncles, who jointly owned the land with the king; the uncles' allegiance to the king was only formal. Mangareva also had nominal control over the other Gambier Islands including Akamaru, Aukena, and Taravai, which had their own kings who were vassals to the monarch at Rikitea.\n\nChristian missionaries headed by Father Honoré Laval and Father François Caret from Chile of the order of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, landed in August 1834, at Mangareva, which was then an independent kingdom under King Maputeoa. The king refused them access to the main island of Mangareva. However, the missionaries managed to land on a small island where the local chief gave them support to learn the Mangareva language and the islanders learned about Christianity. Within one of year of their arrival, the missionaries converted the islanders at Taravai, Aukena and Akamuru to Christianity, established churches, and even convinced the islanders to wear tunics.\n\nInitially, Matua accepted the Catholic religious practices. He donated the \"maraes\" to the missionaries to build churches and advised them on how to overthrow the king. As Maputeoa recognized what Matua was trying to do, the king began appearing in churches during mass. Two years after the missionaries' arrival in Gambier, Maputeoa consented to dismantle the Te Keika \"marae\", which was the largest of its kind on Rikitea, and in its place, St. Michael's Cathedral, Rikitea was built, which became the largest church in the South Pacific islands. Maputeoa was baptized at Church of Saint-Joseph-de-Taku on Mangareva along with 160 other people of the kingdom. He took the name Gregorio after baptism in honor of Pope Gregory XVI who had deputed the missionaries to eastern Oceania, and solemnly placed his islands under the protection of the Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nMaputeoa died on 20 June 1857 of acute pleurisy or \"the disease of the chest.\" He was succeeded as King of Mangareva by his young son, Joseph Gregorio II, with his widow Queen Maria Eutokia Toaputeitou as regent. King Joseph died childless after an eleven-year reign. After 1868, the island kingdom was ruled by regents until it was annexed by France in 1881. In 1977, French Polynesia issued a stamp with an image of Maputeoa. Maputeoa's crypt is located in the Chapelle St-Pierre behind St. Michael's Cathedral.\n\n"}
{"id": "17966260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17966260", "title": "McRoberts maneuver", "text": "McRoberts maneuver\n\nThe McRoberts maneuver is an obstetrical maneuver used to assist in childbirth. It is named after William A. McRoberts, Jr. It is employed in case of shoulder dystocia during childbirth and involves hyperflexing the mother's legs tightly to her abdomen. It is effective due to the increased mobility at the sacroiliac joint during pregnancy, allowing rotation of the pelvis and facilitating the release of the fetal shoulder. If this maneuver does not succeed, an assistant applies pressure on the lower abdomen (suprapubic pressure), and the delivered head is also gently pulled. The technique is effective in about 42% of cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "12516535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12516535", "title": "Mehmet Altınsoy", "text": "Mehmet Altınsoy\n\nMehmet Altınsoy (1924 in Aksaray – 17 February 2007 in Ankara) was a Turkish politician, co-founder of the Motherland Party (), Mayor of Ankara and minister of state.\n\nMehmet Altınsoy became a lawyer after graduating from the Law School at Ankara University. He entered politics after the military coup of 1960. By keeping his nationalist-conservative line in the last 50 years of the history of Turkish politics, he was a member of several political parties like Nationalist Movement Party, Motherland Party and finally Welfare Party.\n\nHe was appointed a founding member of the parliament in 1961. He was appointed minister in the cabinet of Prime Minister Suat Hayri Ürgüplü in 1965. Mehmet Altınsoy served until 1969 in the parliament. In 1983, he was among the founders of Turgut Özal's Motherland Party. Between 1984 and 1989, he served as the mayor of Greater Ankara and realized major infrastructure projects with the support of Prime Minister Turgut Özal, whom Altınsoy was considered to be a confidant. He became a minister for the second time, in the Welfare Party and True Path Party coalition cabinet in 1996-1997.\n\nAfter lying three days in a coma at the Atatürk Hospital in Ankara, where he was brought in following an intracranial hemorrhage caused by hypertension, he died on 17 February 2007. Mehmet Altınsoy was first married with Necla (1928-2001), the daughter of former President of Religious Affairs Ahmet Hamdi Akseki, with whom he had two daughters Yasemin and Sedef. He was buried at Karşıyaka Cemetery after the funeral service in Kocatepe Mosque.\n"}
{"id": "48862070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48862070", "title": "Merry Legs", "text": "Merry Legs\n\nMerry Legs (1911-1932) was a Tennessee Walking Horse mare who was given foundation registration for her influence as a broodmare. She was also a successful show horse.\n\nMerry Legs was foaled in April 1911. She was a bay with sabino markings. She was sired by the foundation stallion Black Allan F-1, out of the American Saddlebred mare Nell Dement, registration number F-3, and bred by the early breeder Albert Dement. She was a large mare at maturity, standing high and weighing . Merry Legs was a successful show horse; as a three-year-old, she won the stake class at the Tennessee State Fair. She was also successful as a broodmare, giving birth to 13 foals, among them the well-known Bud Allen, Last Chance, Major Allen, and Merry Boy. For her influence on the breed, she was given the foundation number F-4 when the TWHBEA was formed in 1935. She died in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "32803337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32803337", "title": "Murder of Mi Gao Huang Chen", "text": "Murder of Mi Gao Huang Chen\n\nMi Gao Huang Chen was a British Chinese man who was attacked on 23 April 2005 by a large group of youths outside the Chinese takeaway he ran in Scholes, Wigan, Greater Manchester. He died of his injuries on 28 April at the age of 41. The police arrested 23 people in connection with the attack, four of whom were eventually convicted of murder.\n\nBorn in China, Chen moved to the UK several years before his death.\nIn 2004 he and his girlfriend, Jia Ming Yah, who was known as Eileen Jia, bought the Superb Hut takeaway after the previous owner had abandoned it because of the harassment they suffered. In the months before the attack, the couple reported several incidents of antisocial behaviour to the police, including racial abuse and attacks on 22April that smashed a window; Jia later said the police response to these incidents was lacking.\n\nOn the night of the attack, Chen, Jia, and their chef, wielding weapons, confronted a group of youths who had gathered outside the takeaway, chasing them onto a nearby housing estate. At some point, a teenage girl was allegedly assaulted. The trio retreated, and Huang Chen was attacked by the youths, who by then had obtained their own weapons. During the attack—which lasted 15 minutes, was captured on camera, and was described by the prosecution as \"forceful, deliberate and plain to see\"—Chen was punched, kicked, had his head stamped on, and was attacked with the weapons. The coverage shows a girl throwing a branch at Jia, and Jia's attempts to protect Chen. Huang Chen fell into a coma, and was taken to Hope Hospital (now Salford Royal), where he died on 28 April. The pathologist who examined the body found that it had a fractured skull, a broken jaw, and a partly crushed brain; and said the cause of death was trauma to the head.\n\nThe death contributed to the development of a number of schemes and groups designed to address crime in the local area. Hsiao-Hung of \"The Guardian\" said the attack was part of a trend of increasing anti-Chinese violence in the country. Jia and some in the Chinese community saw the attack as racially motivated, saying that the youths were white. Bobby Chan, chairperson of Min Quan, and Suresh Grover, director of the Monitoring Group, said the police had a tendency to fail to support Chinese victims such as Jia: \"it seemed that most criminal justice agencies froze when it came applying the most basic of the Lawrence Inquiry recommendations to Chinese victims\". Detective chief inspector Steve Crimins of Greater Manchester Police said the attack was not racially motivated, and that \"[t]o say that any failure to deal with previous incidents led directly to the death of Mr Chen is ludicrous\". The Institute of Race Relations considers the death to have a \"(known or suspected) racial element\". In May 2011 Sankey had his sentence reduced to eight years and six months.\n\n"}
{"id": "52789933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52789933", "title": "Murder of Mona Tinsley", "text": "Murder of Mona Tinsley\n\nThe murder of Mona Tinsley is a British child murder case from 1937. On 5 January 1937, 10-year-old Mona Lilian Tinsley disappeared after leaving her Newark-on-Trent school. A former lodger of Mona's parents, Frederick Nodder, became the prime suspect in her abduction. However, despite the fact both strong physical and circumstantial evidence existed attesting to his guilt, because no body could be found, Nodder could not be tried for her murder, but was instead convicted of Mona's abduction and sentenced to seven years in gaol.\n\nOn 6 June, Mona's strangled body was recovered from the River Idle, and Nodder was subsequently charged with her murder. He was found guilty of Mona's murder and hanged at Lincoln Prison on 30 December 1937.\n\nThe murder of Mona Tinsley was a prime case study cited in English law as leading to the abolition of the \"no body, no murder\" principle. This principle was abolished in 1954. As such, a murder conviction can now be obtained based on circumstantial evidence, should this evidence be sufficiently compelling and convincing.\n\nOn the afternoon of 5 January 1937, 10-year-old Mona Tinsley disappeared after leaving her school in Newark-on-Trent. Her distraught parents reported her missing to the police that same evening. The police immediately launched an intense manhunt for the child. This search involved canals and rivers being dragged, and empty properties being searched. The police search was assisted by hundreds of local volunteers.\n\nIn response to extensive police appeals, two eyewitnesses came forward on 6 January to say they had seen the girl at a bus station in the company of a middle-aged man. One of these individuals was able to identify this man as a former lodger of the Tinsleys. A neighbour of the Tinsley family also informed the police that she had seen this former lodger of the theirs standing alone, loitering on a street corner close to Mona's school, staring in the direction of the entrance to the premises on the afternoon of her abduction. Later that day, a bus conductor named Charles Reville confirmed to police that the previous day, a young girl matching Mona's description had indeed boarded his 4:45 p.m. bus from Newark to Retford in the company of a middle-aged man, and the pair had alighted his bus at Grove Street, Retford. Reville ominously added that this man had purchased a return ticket for himself, but only a single ticket for the girl. Reville's claims were independently substantiated by a passenger on the bus named Stanley Betts, who also claimed to have seen a middle-aged man travelling between Newark and Retford with a girl matching Mona's description.\n\nMona's parents, Wilfred and Lilian Tinsley, were questioned by the police. They gave this former lodger's name as Frederick Hudson, adding that they had been introduced to Hudson by Lilian's sister, Edith Grimes, with whom Hudson lodged in Sheffield. The Tinsleys explained that after Hudson left the Grimes household in October 1935, he had briefly lodged with them, but that they had evicted him from their home after just three weeks for non-payment of rent. Nonetheless, the Tinsleys emphasised that his departure from their household had been upon amicable terms, and also confirmed that in the short space of time Hudson had lodged in their household, he had been popular with their seven children, who had all come to know him as \"Uncle Fred\".\n\nPolice interviewed Edith Grimes, who stated the man her sister knew as Frederick Hudson was actually named Frederick Nodder, who had adopted the surname Hudson as an alias, since becoming the subject of an affiliation order. Grimes described Nodder as being a brutish and squalid drunkard with poor personal hygiene and few friends, who worked primarily as a motor mechanic and lorry driver in Retford. Nodder had, Grimes stated, deserted his wife many years before he had lodged with them. However, she claimed and to be unaware of his current address, and to have not seen him for several months (this was contradicted by a neighbour of the Grimes family, who recalled seeing a lorry driver fitting Nodder's description at their home shortly after Christmas 1936). Enquiries in public houses and garages in Retford quickly led officers to the Retford haulage firm with which Nodder was employed; this firm was able to provide police with Nodder's current address on Smeath Road in the Nottinghamshire village of Hayton.\nIn the late evening of 6 January, police questioned Frederick Nodder at his rented home. Producing a photograph of Mona and asking if he knew the child, Nodder confirmed he did indeed \"used to\" know her, but claimed not to have seen the child for approximately 15 months. Questioned as to his movements the previous day, Nodder confirmed he had indeed been in Newark the previous day, but that he had simply been looking for work. He had returned to Retford alone on the 3.45 p.m. bus (approximately 10 minutes before Mona is believed to have been abducted).\n\nAs police questioned Nodder, other officers began interviewing his neighbours. One of these neighbours claimed to police she had seen a young girl matching Mona's description at Nodder's premises earlier that day; another neighbour was able to confirm to police that at midday on 6 January, a young brunette girl wearing a blue dress had been standing in the back doorway of his house, watching Nodder digging in his garden. This combination of eyewitness testimony was enough to detain Nodder, and at 11 p.m. that evening, he was arrested on a bastardy warrant (police having learned from Edith Grimes that Nodder had been the subject of an affiliation order), and both his home (known as \"Peacehaven\") and garden extensively searched. Every house, drain, ditch and cesspit within a three mile radius of his property was also searched, and a five-mile stretch of the Chesterfield Canal was drained. Although the search outside the grounds of Peacehaven proved fruitless insofar as discovering Mona either alive or dead, the search of his property revealed a handkerchief later determined to belong to Mona near a water tank at the rear of the premises. Also discovered inside the house were scraps of paper depicting a child's drawings and writings, and fingerprints upon crockery in the kitchen were quickly matched to those taken from materials Mona was known to have handled at her home. Ominously, an opened packet of sweets and a tin of Vaseline were discovered beneath a pillow in the front bedroom of these premises, indicating a likely sexual motive for Mona's abduction.\n\nThe following morning, Nodder was placed in an identity parade, and each of the witnesses who had seen Mona on 5 and 6 January did not hesitate to pick him out as the man they had seen in her company. Confronted with both these positive identifications and the successive pieces of evidence being discovered at his home, Nodder changed his story as to his actions on 5 January. In his initial statement, given on the evening of 8 January, Nodder claimed he had encountered Mona by chance outside her school, and that the child had asked him to take her to visit her aunt (Edith Grimes) in Sheffield in order that she could see her newborn cousin, whom she had not yet seen. Reluctantly, he had agreed to Mona's request, as he had expected to see Mrs. Grimes the following day (the pair having an agreement to meet once a week in their affair). He had therefore persuaded Mona to spend the evening at his home, before giving the child two shillings and placing her on a bus to Sheffield the following evening, with instructions—both verbal and written—as to how to reach her aunt's home. This arrangement would therefore ensure Nodder's home was empty when Mrs. Grimes visited him at their pre-scheduled meeting time. Nodder further stated Edith Grimes could assist with the case, adding she had known his address but alleging she had withheld this information from the police. (Edith Grimes admitted to police she and Nodder had engaged in an affair, but indignantly denied his other claims and accusations.)\n\nThe extensive searches conducted in and around Newark, Sheffield and Hayton failed to find any trace of Mona and on 10 January 1937, Nodder was charged with Mona's abduction (the lack of a body precluding a charge of murder). In response, Nodder proclaimed, \"I didn't take her away by force!\"\n\nJust days after the disappearance of Mona Tinsley, a renowned spiritualist medium named Estelle Roberts contacted the Chief Constable of Newark, offering her assistance in locating the child and adding that if he accepted her services, to mail her some clothing the child had worn. With the agreement of Mona's parents, police sought Roberts' assistance. Upon handling a silk dress the child had worn shortly before her disappearance, Roberts immediately knew the child was dead. She later informed police Mona had been murdered, adding that she had taken to a house with a water-filled ditch on one side, and that she had spent much of her time within this household copying \"something out of a book\" (police had not informed Roberts of the scraps of children's drawings or writings discovered at Peacehaven). Roberts stated the child had been strangled to death in an upstairs bedroom of these premises, before her murderer had placed her body in a sack and transported her remains to a river beyond the field which existed behind this house. Roberts then informed informed the police, \"You will find the child's body there\".\n\nAlthough Nodder refused to divulge the whereabouts of Mona's body, police were certain the child was dead. Following the completion of the search of Peacehaven and the vicinity of the premises, police—assisted by hundreds of volunteers and several search dogs—expanded the search for Mona's body to the surrounding countryside. After three weeks, the Chief Constable of Newark, Harry Barnes, decided to seek the assistance of Scotland Yard. A decision was made to extensively search every house, drain, ditch and pond within three miles of Peacehaven. This search was at the time one of the most extensive in British police history, although it would ultimately prove fruitless. Before the Scotland Yard officers left Hayton, they informed their counterparts of their conviction Mona's body had been thrown into the River Idle, and of their fears the child's body had been swept into the North Sea.\n\nOn 9 and 10 March 1937, Nodder appeared at Birmingham Assizes. He was tried before Mr. Justice Swift, charged with Mona's abduction; the taking of the girl by fraud with the intent of depriving her father of possession of her; of detaining her by fraud; of decoying and enticing her into his possession; and of unlawfully stealing and carrying away the child and secreting her against the wishes of her father.\n\nThe prosecution was conducted by Norman Birkett KC, who could only argue that Nodder had abducted the child. Nodder chose not to testify at this hearing, leaving his defence counsel, led by Maurice Healy, to reiterate Nodder's claims that the girl had spent one night at his Peacehaven home before he had given the child two shillings and instructions as to how to travel to her aunt's Sheffield home, and that he had not seen her since. Healy further argued that Mona may still be found alive and well, and that and no-one should speculate as to her fate.\n\nThe jury took just 16 minutes to convict Nodder of Tinsley's abduction. In his summary to the court, Justice Swift paid reference to Nodder's refusal to testify at this trial, stating: \"Nobody knows what has become of that little girl... Whatever happened to her, how she fared, who looked after her, where she slept. There is one person in this court who knows, and he is silent... he is silent! He says nothing to you at all... He sits there and never tells you a word.\" In passing sentence, Justice Swift added: \"What you did with that little girl, what became of her, only you know. It may be that time will reveal the dreadful secret you carry in your breast. I cannot tell, but, I am determined that, as far as have part or lot in that dreadful tragedy, I will keep you in custody.\" He was sentenced to seven years' imprisonment, to be served at Lincoln Prison.\n\nOn 6 June 1937, a family boating on the River Idle in Bawtry spotted an object in the water, close to the bank. Upon closer inspection, this family discovered that the object was the partially decomposed body of a child, with the head and upper torso embedded in silt and trapped in a drain below water level. Her body had been weighted down with wood and metal. On the banks of the river was a torn and rotting sack which had evidently been used to transport the child's body. The location was approximately 8 miles from where Nodder had lived. The body was initially moved to a nearby inn, where the clothing present with the body was identified by Wilfred Tinsley as belonging to his daughter. A subsequent autopsy at the Retford Mortuary confirmed Mona had been strangled—most likely with a ligature—and that she had been dead before entering the water. Due to the extensive period of time the body had been in the river, the extensive adipocere formation upon the corpse prevented the pathologist from being able to determine whether Mona had been sexually assaulted before her murder.\n\nThe funeral of Mona Tinsley took place on 10 June 1937 at her local Methodist Church, where Mona had attended Sunday School. Several hundred people lined the streets as her coffin was led from the Methodist Church to Newark Cemetery, where her body was interred. On 28 June, Frederick Nodder was formally charged with Mona's murder.\n\nFive months after Nodder had been formally charged with the murder of Mona Tinsley, he appeared at Nottingham Assizes to be tried for her murder. His second trial began on 22 November 1937, and again saw Norman Birkett appear on behalf of the prosecution, and Maurice Healy on behalf of the defence. Healy again argued his client had no motive to commit the murder. Nodder himself testified at this second trial, claiming that he had not seen Mona after he had placed her on a bus at Worksop, with view to her visiting her aunt in Sheffield. In response to questioning from both the prosecution and defence, Nodder denied killing the child, and alleged she had been murdered by an unknown individual after he had last seen her.\n\nAmong the many prosecution witnesses to testify was the bus conductor, Charles Reville, who testified that a young girl matching Mona's description had boarded his bus in the company of a man whom he positively identified as Frederick Nodder, and that Nodder had purchased a return ticket for himself, but only a single ticket for the girl. Also to testify at this second trial was Sir Bernard Spilsbury, who testified that Mona had been strangled from behind with a bootlace or a cord of similar diameter.\n\nThis second trial lasted just two days, although the jury took just 75 minutes to find Nodder guilty. When given the opportunity to speak after hearing the jury's verdict, Nodder stood before the judge, before declaring in a low but firm tone: \"I shall go out of this court with a clear conscience.\" In passing sentence, the presiding judge, Mr. Justice Macnaghten, informed Nodder: \"Justice has slowly, but surely, overtaken you.\"\n\nNodder did launch an appeal against his sentence, contending that the evidence presented against him at his trial was purely circumstantial, but this appeal was dismissed on 13 December. He was hanged at Lincoln Prison at 8 a.m. on the morning of 30 December 1937. His executioners were Tom Pierrepoint and Stanley Cross.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "460052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460052", "title": "Mystic River (film)", "text": "Mystic River (film)\n\nMystic River is a 2003 American mystery drama film directed and scored by Clint Eastwood. It stars Sean Penn, Tim Robbins, Kevin Bacon, Laurence Fishburne, Marcia Gay Harden, and Laura Linney. The screenplay, written by Brian Helgeland, was based on the novel of the same name by Dennis Lehane. The film was produced by Robert Lorenz, Judie G. Hoyt, and Eastwood. It is the first film on which Eastwood was credited as composer of the score.\n\nThe film opened to widespread critical acclaim. It was nominated for Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Supporting Actress, and Best Supporting Actor. Penn won Best Actor and Robbins won Best Supporting Actor, making \"Mystic River\" the first film to win both awards since \"Ben-Hur\" in 1959.\n\nThree boys, Jimmy Markum, Sean Devine, and Dave Boyle, play hockey in a Boston street in 1975. Spotting wet concrete, they start writing their names into it when a car pulls up with two men, one pretending to be a police officer and the other a priest. One gets out and berates the boys for their actions, and tells Dave to get into the car. The men hold Dave captive and sexually abuse him for four days, until he escapes.\n\nTwenty-five years later, the boys are grown and, while they still live in Boston, have drifted apart. Jimmy is an ex-con running a neighborhood store, while Dave is a blue-collar worker, still haunted by his abduction. The two are still neighbors and related by marriage. Jimmy's 19-year-old daughter Katie is secretly dating Brendan Harris, a boy Jimmy despises. She and Brendan are planning to run away together to Las Vegas.\n\nKatie goes out for the night with her girlfriends and Dave sees her at a local bar. That night, Katie is murdered, and Dave comes home with an injured hand and blood on his clothes, which his wife Celeste helps him clean up. Dave claims he fought off a mugger, \"bashed his head on the parking lot\", and possibly killed him. Sean, now a detective with the Massachusetts State Police, investigates Katie's murder. His pregnant wife, Lauren, has recently left him.\n\nOver the course of the film, Sean and his partner, Sergeant Whitey Powers, track down leads while Jimmy conducts his own investigation using his neighborhood connections. Sean discovers that the gun used to kill Katie was also used in a liquor store robbery during the 1980s by \"Just Ray\" Harris, the father of Katie's boyfriend. Harris has been missing since 1989, but Brendan claims he still sends his family $500 every month. Brendan also feigns ignorance about Ray's gun but Sean believes it was still in the house. Sergeant Powers suspects Dave as a possible perpetrator because he was one of the last people to see Katie alive. He also has a wounded hand and, although he continues to tell his wife he got it while being mugged, he tells the police a different story—soon Jimmy becomes suspicious of it. Dave continues to behave strangely, which upsets his wife to the point she is afraid he will hurt her. While Jimmy and his associates conduct their investigation, Dave's wife eventually tells Jimmy about Dave's behavior, the bloody clothing, and her suspicions.\n\nJimmy and his friends get Dave drunk at a local bar. When Dave leaves the bar, the men follow him out. Jimmy tells Dave that he shot \"Just Ray\" Harris at that same location for ratting him out and sending him to jail. Jimmy informs Dave that his wife thinks he murdered Katie and tells Dave he will let him live if he confesses. Dave repeatedly tells Jimmy that he did kill someone but it was not Katie: he beat a child molester to death after finding him having sex with a child prostitute in a car. Jimmy does not believe Dave's claim and threatens him with a knife. When Dave falsely admits to killing Katie thinking he can escape with his life, Jimmy kills him and disposes of his body in the adjacent Mystic River.\n\nWhile Dave is being killed, Brendan (having found out about his father's gun during questioning) confronts his younger brother Ray Jr. and his brother's friend John about Katie's murder. He beats the two boys and threatens to kill them if they do not admit their guilt, but when John takes the gun and is about to shoot him, Sean and Powers arrive just in time to stop it.\n\nThe next morning, Sean tells Jimmy the police have Katie's murderers—who have confessed. She was killed by Brendan's brother, \"Silent Ray\" Harris, and his friend John O'Shea in a violent prank gone wrong: The kids got hold of Just Ray's gun and saw a car coming which happened to be Katie's. John aimed the gun just to scare her but the gun went off by accident. The car veered onto the curb and Katie got out and ran into the park. Silent Ray and John pursued her so she wouldn't tell anyone. The beating Katie received was from Silent Ray, who had a hockey stick. Once she was beaten, John shot her again, killing her. Sean asks Jimmy if he has seen Dave, because he is wanted for questioning in another case, the murder of a known child molester. A distraught Jimmy thanks Sean for finding his daughter's killers, but says, \"if only you had been a little faster.\" Sean asks Jimmy if he's going to \"send Celeste Boyle $500 a month too?\"\n\nSean reunites with his wife and his daughter Nora, after apologizing for \"pushing her away\". Jimmy goes to his wife, Annabeth, and confesses. She comforts him and tells him he is a king and kings always make the right decision. At a town parade, Sean sees Jimmy, and mimics shooting him, to let Jimmy know he is watching.\n\nPrincipal photography took place on location in Boston. Eastwood stated that the three lead actors were his first choices for the roles.\n\n\"Mystic River\" was well received by critics, with the performances and direction receiving widespread acclaim. The film has an 87% approval rating based on 195 reviews from critics at the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes. At the website Metacritic, which utilizes a normalized rating system, the film earned a rating of 84/100 (\"universal acclaim\") based on 42 reviews. Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" wrote \"Clint Eastwood pours everything he knows about directing into \"Mystic River\". His film sneaks up, messes with your head, and then floors you. You can't shake it. It's that haunting, that hypnotic.\" \"The Sun\" wrote that the film was \"a haunting masterpiece and probably [Eastwood's] best film to date\".\n\nThe film earned $156,822,020 worldwide with $90,135,191 in the United States and $66,686,829 in the international box office, which is significantly higher than the film's $30 million budget.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "380890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380890", "title": "Nanobacterium", "text": "Nanobacterium\n\nNanobacterium ( , pl. \"nanobacteria\" ) is the unit or member name of a proposed class of living organisms, specifically cell-walled microorganisms with a size much smaller than the generally accepted lower limit for life (about 200 nm for bacteria, like mycoplasma). Originally based on observed nano-scale structures in geological formations (including one meteorite), the status of nanobacteria has been controversial, with some researchers suggesting they are a new class of living organism capable of incorporating radiolabeled uridine, and others attributing to them a simpler, abiotic nature. One skeptic dubbed them \"the cold fusion of microbiology\", in reference to a notorious episode of supposed erroneous science. The term \"calcifying nanoparticles\" (CNPs) has also been used as a conservative name regarding their possible status as a life form.\n\nResearch tends to agree that these structures exist, and appear to replicate in some way. However, the idea that they are living entities has now largely been discarded, and the particles are instead thought to be nonliving crystallizations of minerals and organic molecules.\n\nIn 1981 Torella and Morita described very small cells called ultramicrobacteria. Defined as being smaller than 300 nm, by 1982 MacDonell and Hood found that some could pass through a 200 nm membrane. Early in 1989, geologist Robert L. Folk found what he later identified as \"nannobacteria\" (written with double \"n\"), that is, nanoparticles isolated from geological specimens in travertine from hot springs of Viterbo, Italy. Initially searching for a bacterial cause for travertine deposition, scanning electron microscope examination of the mineral where no bacteria were detectable revealed extremely small objects which appeared to be biological. His first oral presentation elicited what he called \"mostly a stony silence\", at the 1992 Geological Society of America's annual convention. He proposed that nanobacteria are the principal agents of precipitation of all minerals and crystals on Earth formed in liquid water, that they also cause all oxidation of metals, and that they are abundant in many biological specimens.\n\nIn 1996, NASA scientist David McKay published a study suggesting the existence of nanofossils — fossils of Martian nanobacteria — in ALH84001, a meteorite originating from Mars and found in Antarctica.\n\n\"Nanobacterium sanguineum\" was proposed in 1998 as an explanation of certain kinds of pathologic calcification (apatite in kidney stones) by Finnish researcher Olavi Kajander and Turkish researcher Neva Ciftcioglu, working at the University of Kuopio in Finland. According to the researchers the particles self-replicated in microbiological culture, and the researchers further reported having identified DNA in these structures by staining.\n\nA paper published in 2000 by a team led by an NIH scientist John Cisar further tested these ideas. It stated that what had previously been described as \"self-replication\" was a form of crystalline growth. The only DNA detected in his specimens was identified as coming from the bacteria \"Phyllobacterium myrsinacearum\", which is a common contaminant in PCR reactions.\n\nIn 2004 a Mayo Clinic team led by Franklin Cockerill, John Lieske, and Virginia M. Miller, reported to have isolated nanobacteria from diseased human arteries and kidney stones. Their results were published in 2004 and 2006 respectively. Similar findings were obtained in 2005 by László Puskás at the DNA Lab, University of Szeged, Hungary. Dr. Puskás identified these particles in cultures obtained from human atherosclerotic aortic walls and blood samples of atherosclerotic patients but the group was unable to detect DNA in these samples.\n\nIn 2005, Ciftcioglu and her research team at NASA used a rotating cell culture flask, which simulates some aspects of low-gravity conditions, to culture nanobacteria suspected of rapidly forming kidney stones in astronauts. In this environment, they were found to multiply five times faster than in normal Earth gravity. The study concluded that nanobacteria might have a potential role in forming kidney stones and may need to be screened for in crews pre-flight.\n\nThe February 2008 \"Public Library of Science (PLoS) Pathogens\" article focused on the comprehensive characterization of nanobacteria. The authors say that their results rule out the existence of nanobacteria as living entities and that they are instead a unique self-propagating entity, namely self-propagating mineral-fetuin complexes.\n\nAn April 2008 \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS)\" article also reported that blood nanobacteria are not living organisms and stated that \"CaCO precipitates prepared \"in vitro\" are remarkably similar to purported nanobacteria in terms of their uniformly sized, membrane-delineated vesicular shapes, with cellular division-like formations and aggregations in the form of colonies.\" The growth of such \"biomorphic\" inorganic precipitates was studied in detail in a 2009 \"Science\" paper, which showed that unusual crystal growth mechanisms can produce witherite precipitates from barium chloride and silica solutions that closely resemble primitive organisms. The authors commented on the close resemblance of these crystals to putative nanobacteria, stating that their results showed that evidence for life cannot rest on morphology alone.\n\nFurther work on the importance of nanobacteria in geology by R. L. Folk and co-workers includes study of calcium carbonate Bahama ooids, silicate clay minerals, metal sulfides, and iron oxides. In all these chemically diverse minerals, the putative nanobacteria are approximately the same size, mainly 0.05 to 0.2 μm. This suggests a commonality of origin. At least for the type locality at Viterbo, Italy, the biogenicity of these minute cells has been supported by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Slices through a green bioslime showed entities from 0.4 down to as small as 0.09 μm with definite cell walls and interior dots resembling ribosomes; and even smaller objects with cell walls and lucent interiors with diameters of 0.05 μm. Culturable organisms on earth are the same 0.05 μm size as the supposed nanobacteria on Mars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2332130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2332130", "title": "Nemesis (Resident Evil)", "text": "Nemesis (Resident Evil)\n\nThe Nemesis, also called the Pursuer or , is a fictional character in Capcom's \"Resident Evil\" franchise. Although smaller than other tyrant models, the creature dwarfs a typical human, and possesses vastly superior intelligence and physical dexterity than its undead peers. It features in \"\" as a titular main villain before later emerging in other titles and cameo roles. It is also featured on various merchandise and in the 2004 film \"\". The character is voiced by Tony Rosato in the original game and Gregg Berger in \"Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City\", and portrayed by Matthew G. Taylor in the film.\n\nSince the Nemesis' introduction, the character has received a positive reception, and has come to be regarded as one of the series' most popular characters. Some publications have praised its role as an intimidating villain, while others have noted it as one of their favourite and most terrifying monsters in video games.\n\nIntroduced in \"Resident Evil 3\", the Nemesis was designed under the concept of a \"huge, overpowering monster that could use weapons and intelligently track you anywhere.\" During development, many different designs were considered. Although some elements remained constant among them, the early designs featured several different degrees of surface damage, as well as different options for clothing such as a protective vest instead of a coat or a nude design similar to the original Tyrant from \"Resident Evil\".\n\nIn the series' story, the Nemesis is the result of infecting a Tyrant — a humanoid bio-weapon created to be the ultimate lifeform—with a parasitic organism designed to increase its intelligence. Upon infection, the parasite takes control of the Tyrant's nervous system, forming its own brain and enabling it to follow precise instructions and make decisions without a need for constant direction. Clothed in black trousers, an overcoat, boots, and gloves, the Nemesis is armed with a rocket launcher mounted on its left arm. To emphasize its design as a prototype, the game developers left exposed muscles on its body and added stitches to cover the right eye. Upon spotting its target, it says the target's name out loud and attacks.\n\nThe secretions from the parasite give the Nemesis massively heightened regenerative abilities, which result in the creature being almost impervious to damage; although it can be put down with enough fire from small arms, eventually it \"will\" repair itself and resume the pursuit of its targets. However, this resulted in unexpected side effects, including damage to the skin and the emergence of additional tentacles, as well as unpredictable mutations caused by further attacks. In \"Resident Evil 3\", the creature's survival instincts eventually override Nemesis' programming, causing the host's body to reject the parasite and transform into a giant digestive organ. Featuring large central bone protrusions and elongated tentacles, it crawls looking for prey, yet continues trying to complete its mission despite its now diminished intelligence. This design proved to be the most difficult for the game's development team, as they worked to try to make it appear as unique as possible.\n\nThe Nemesis, named after the Goddess of Vengeance from Greek mythology, first appears in the 1999 PlayStation game \"\" as the game's title character and primary antagonist. The product of years of research, the prototype is deployed by the Umbrella Corporation as a field test to hunt and kill the STARS police team before they can expose Umbrella's activity in the Arklay mountains. The game’s protagonist, Jill Valentine, first encounters the Nemesis outside Raccoon City’s police station where it kills Brad Vickers and then pursues her, uttering \"STARS...\" on sight. The Nemesis continues to stalk Valentine throughout the game, attacking with physical blows and grabs, and later, armed with a rocket launcher. After losing its overcoat as a result of heavy damage, the Nemesis mutates, and gains the ability to attack with long, extendable tentacles. Despite later being doused in acid, the Nemesis continues its pursuit, and mutates into a much larger monster after absorbing a dead Tyrant, gaining the ability to spew poison. Jill finally defeats the Nemesis using a rail cannon, and then depending on the choice of the player, she either kills it once and for all by unloading her weapons into it, or leaves it to die in the nuclear explosion that destroys Raccoon City.\n\nThe Nemesis also appears in \"\", chasing the player if they fail to complete a level before the time limit expires and killing them instantly if it hits them; it can also be fought as a secret boss armed with a rocket launcher if the player has met the proper conditions upon completing the game. The Nemesis returns for the \"Resident Evil 3\" chapter of \"\", in which it pursues Jill in the same manner as the original game and mutates into its secondary form as a boss. Alongside Jill, the Nemesis also appears in the Capcom title \"Under the Skin\", and serves as a boss the player must steal coins from in a Raccoon City-inspired level. Character cards for the Nemesis additionally appear in \"\" and its Nintendo DS sequel. In an interview, \"\" producer Ryouta Niitsuma stated a desire to use the Nemesis in the title as a \"monster-type\" character from the \"Resident Evil\" series, but was dropped after considering it too \"grotesque and disgusting\" and in consideration of ESRB ratings. The character would instead appear briefly in the game's ending sequence for the Hulk. However, despite the initial concerns about his inclusion, the Nemesis appears as a playable character in \"Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3\", an updated version of \"Marvel vs. Capcom 3\". The Nemesis returns as a playable character in \"\". In the game's story, following the Convergence, it is captured by A.I.M.brella leader M.O.D.O.K. and reprogrammed as his enforcer; it later battles and is defeated by Chris Redfield and Mike Haggar. The Nemesis also appears in \"\". In the game, the Nemesis' programming is damaged and the USS is tasked with finding a parasite to repair it. Once the parasite is found, the players must defeat the Nemesis and inject it with the parasite. The Nemesis in the game uses a gatling gun for the fight and is mainly based on his film counterpart; however once the mission is completed, the Nemesis awakes to find his rocket launcher and utters his famous line, \"STARS...\" The Nemesis also appears in the tactical role-playing game \"Project X Zone\" as a rival unit.\n\nThe Nemesis is featured in the 2004 film, \"\", portrayed by Matthew G. Taylor. The character's design was left relatively unchanged, brandishing a rocket launcher and similar attire, but with the addition of a forearm-mounted rail gun, modeled after a heavily modified minigun. Director Paul W. S. Anderson noted that the gun's addition was inspired by the idea of the Nemesis \"walking around with a gigantic, powerful weapon in each hand and almost indecisive as to which one to use\". The costume for Nemesis was created by Kropserkel Inc. and PJFX Studios, and stands roughly tall, weighing nearly . After production of \"Apocalypse\" was completed, the costume was restored and put on display at Kropserkel's offices.\n\nWhile The Nemesis' design remained similar, the character itself was expanded upon, now portrayed as a tragic villain. Formerly Matt Addison (portrayed by Eric Mabius), a survivor of the events of the first film, he was infected with the T-virus after being scratched by a Licker and later captured and experimented upon by the Umbrella Corporation. Transformed into the Nemesis, it is sent to kill the surviving members of STARS, but remembers its humanity after fighting Alice, and fights alongside the protagonists towards the film's conclusion. The Nemesis is eventually crushed beneath a crashing helicopter, and is later killed by the nuclear explosion that destroys Raccoon City.\n\nThe Nemesis appears in a 1999 Hong Kong manhua adaptation of \"Resident Evil 3\" by Lee Chung Hing, \"Biohazard 3: Last Escape\", which is named after the game's Japanese title. The 27-issue series adds to the Nemesis' backstory, detailing its origin by showing the infection and transformation of the original Tyrant by the Nemesis parasite. Some elements are changed for its design, such as the Nemesis retaining both eyes initially, and then losing the right eye and gaining cranial staples only after an encounter with Jill. The comic also introduces characters from \"Resident Evil 2\" into the storyline, which results in a face-off between the Nemesis and the mutated William Birkin towards the end of the series.\n\nIn 2000, Simon & Schuster published a novelization of \"Resident Evil 3\", written by S. D. Perry. Though left unchanged for the most part, the Nemesis is immediately recognized as a modified Tyrant in the novel, which Jill Valentine dubs the \"Nemesis\" after thinking about why it hunts her. Instead of mutating due to having taken damage, the Nemesis transforms voluntarily towards the conclusion of the story in its pursuit of Jill, with its second form from the game being its actual appearance beneath the coat.\n\nA novelization of \"Apocalypse\" was released in 2004, written by Keith R. A. DeCandido. In the book, Matt and the Nemesis act as separate personalities in the same body, both aware, but with the Nemesis dominant. Matt eventually regains control after his body is impaled on a metal shard while fighting Alice, by showing the Nemesis his memories of Umbrella's experimentation upon \"them\". The Nemesis is later mentioned in the 2007 novelization of \"\", in which antagonist Doctor Isaacs considers the Nemesis both his greatest success and his greatest failure, hating mention of it and blaming its defection and destruction upon Umbrella's desire to immediately field test it.\n\nNemesis appears on the cover of every version of \"Resident Evil 3\", and is mentioned prominently on flyers for \"Resident Evil: Survivor 2\". Capcom has also released commercial products modeled on the character, such as an adult size Halloween mask, and later a silver ring modeled after Nemesis's head available for purchase through their Japanese online store. Palisades Toys used its likeness to create a posable action figure (packaged with a base and equipable rocket launcher) and a mini bust, which were released alongside several other \"Resident Evil\"-based merchandise. Moby Dick released its own line of \"Resident Evil\" action figures bundled in pairs of a playable character and enemy. Included in the series were Nemesis's first and second form, with the first form featuring an alternate head and equipable rocket launcher. Each set additionally includes a part of an action figure of Nemesis's third form, which measures 24 inches (60 cm) long when completed.\n\nFollowing the game's debut in 1999, the Nemesis became one of the most recognizable and popular characters in the \"Resident Evil\" series. G4's \"Filter\" named the Nemesis one of the top ten videogame villains of all time as selected by viewers, placing fifth on the list. IGN noted it as their favorite aspect of \"Resident Evil 3\", stating, \"The point is, he's a bad-ass, and he's got plenty of surprises in store for you besides just fast feet and a big gun\". In another article, IGN noted the Nemesis as one of their favorite video game monsters of all time, but felt disdain for its presentation in the film. They also named him one of the series' best bosses, calling it \"what may be Umbrella's most fearsome creation ever\" and comparing it to \"\"s T-1000, and later one of the top 100 video game villains of all time, placing 59th and described as horrific not for its appearance or attacks but its persistence. 1UP.com named the battle against the Nemesis one of the \"25 of the Most Badass Boss Fights of All Time\", saying \"There are plenty of bosses worth mentioning from the \"Resident Evil\" series... but the one that to this day most people point to as the biggest badass of the bunch is Nemesis\".\n\n\"GamePro\" ranked the Nemesis 29th on their list of the \"47 Most Diabolical Video Game Villains of All Time\", noting the character \"made \"RE3\" memorable even among the other, superior installments in the series\". It ranked fourth on \"Electronic Gaming Monthly's\" \"Top Ten Badass Undead\" article, which described its role as a simple, yet effective villain. GameSpot featured Nemesis in a \"Reader's Choice\" edition of their \"Top 10 Video Game Villains\" article, placing eighth on the list and noting the character's high popularity among fans when compared to the Tyrant. He has also been voted by GamesRadar's readers as the 99th \"most dastardly ne'er-do-wells\" villain in video games in their \"top 100\". GameDaily listed it as one of their favorite Capcom characters of all time, stating \"The \"Resident Evil\" series has a slew of memorable bad guys to choose from... but Nemesis is our favorite.\" The Nemesis additionally ranked fifth on their list of \"Top 25 Scariest Video Game Monsters\". \n\n"}
{"id": "21663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21663", "title": "Nihilism", "text": "Nihilism\n\nNihilism (; ) is the philosophical viewpoint that suggests the denial or lack of belief towards the reputedly meaningful aspects of life. Most commonly, nihilism is presented in the form of existential nihilism, which argues that life is without objective meaning, purpose, or intrinsic value. Moral nihilists assert that there is no inherent morality, and that accepted moral values are abstractly contrived. Nihilism may also take epistemological, ontological, or metaphysical forms, meaning respectively that, in some aspect, knowledge is not possible, or reality does not actually exist.\n\nThe term is sometimes used in association with anomie to explain the general mood of despair at a perceived pointlessness of existence that one may develop upon realising there are no necessary norms, rules, or laws. \n\nNihilism has also been described as conspicuous in or constitutive of certain historical periods. For example, Jean Baudrillard and others have called postmodernity a nihilistic epoch and some religious theologians and figures of religious authority have asserted that postmodernity and many aspects of modernity represent a rejection of theism, and that such rejection of theistic doctrine entails nihilism.\n\nNihilism has many definitions, and thus can describe multiple arguably independent philosophical positions.\n\nMetaphysical nihilism is the philosophical theory that posits that concrete objects and physical constructs might not exist in the possible world, or that even if there exist possible worlds that contain some concrete objects, there is at least one that contains only abstract objects.\n\nExtreme metaphysical nihilism is commonly defined as the belief that nothing exists as a correspondent component of the self-efficient world. The American Heritage Medical Dictionary defines one form of nihilism as \"an extreme form of skepticism that denies all existence.\" A similar skepticism concerning the concrete world can be found in solipsism. However, despite the fact that both deny the certainty of objects' true existence, the nihilist would deny the existence of self whereas the solipsist would affirm it. Both these positions are considered forms of anti-realism.\n\nEpistemological nihilism is a form of skepticism in which all knowledge is accepted as being possibly untrue or as being impossible to confirm as true.\n\nMereological nihilism (also called compositional nihilism) is the position that objects with proper parts do not exist (not only objects in space, but also objects existing in time do not have any temporal parts), and only basic building blocks without parts exist, and thus the world we see and experience full of objects with parts is a product of human misperception (i.e., if we could see clearly, we would not perceive compositive objects).\n\nThis interpretation of existence must be based on resolution. The resolution with which humans see and perceive the \"improper parts\" of the world is not an objective fact of reality, but is rather an implicit trait that can only be qualitatively explored and expressed. Therefore, there is no arguable way to surmise or measure the validity of mereological nihilism. Example: An ant can get lost on a large cylindrical object because the circumference of the object is so large with respect to the ant that the ant effectively feels as though the object has no curvature. Thus, the resolution with which the ant views the world it exists \"within\" is a very important determining factor in how the ant experiences this \"within the world\" feeling.\n\nExistential nihilism is the belief that life has no intrinsic meaning or value. With respect to the universe, existential nihilism posits that a single human or even the entire human species is insignificant, without purpose and unlikely to change in the totality of existence. The meaninglessness of life is largely explored in the philosophical school of existentialism.\n\nMoral nihilism, also known as ethical nihilism, is the meta-ethical view that morality does not exist as something inherent to objective reality; therefore no action is necessarily preferable to any other. For example, a moral nihilist would say that killing someone, for whatever reason, is not inherently right or wrong.\n\nOther nihilists may argue not that there is no morality at all, but that if it does exist, it is a human construction and thus artificial, wherein any and all meaning is relative for different possible outcomes. As an example, if someone kills someone else, such a nihilist might argue that killing is not inherently a bad thing, or bad independently from our moral beliefs, because of the way morality is constructed as some rudimentary dichotomy. What is said to be a bad thing is given a higher negative weighting than what is called good: as a result, killing the individual was bad because it did not let the individual live, which was arbitrarily given a positive weighting. In this way a moral nihilist believes that all moral claims are void of any truth value. An alternative scholarly perspective is that moral nihilism is a morality in itself. Cooper writes, \"In the widest sense of the word 'morality', moral nihilism is a morality.\"\n\nPolitical nihilism follows the characteristic nihilist's rejection of non-rationalized or non-proven assertions; in this case the necessity of the most fundamental social and political structures, such as government, family, and law. An influential analysis of political nihilism is presented by Leo Strauss.\n\nThe Russian Nihilist movement was a Russian trend in the 1860s that rejected all authority. After the assassination of Tsar Alexander II in 1881, the Nihilists gained a reputation throughout Europe as proponents of the use of violence for political change. The Nihilists expressed anger at what they described as the abusive nature of the Eastern Orthodox Church and of the tsarist monarchy, and at the domination of the Russian economy by the aristocracy. Although the term \"Nihilism\" was coined by the German theologian Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi (1743–1818), its widespread usage began with the 1862 novel \"Fathers and Sons\" by the Russian author Ivan Turgenev. The main character of the novel, Eugene Bazarov, who describes himself as a Nihilist, wants to educate the people. The \"go to the peoplebe the people\" campaign reached its height in the 1870s, during which underground groups such as the Circle of Tchaikovsky, the People's Will, and Land and Liberty formed. It became known as the Narodnik movement, whose members believed that the newly freed serfs were merely being sold into wage slavery in the onset of the Industrial Revolution, and that the middle and upper classes had effectively replaced landowners. The Russian state attempted to suppress the nihilist movement. In actions described by the Nihilists as propaganda of the deed many government officials were assassinated. In 1881 Alexander II was killed on the very day he had approved a proposal to call a representative assembly to consider new reforms.\n\nThe concept of nihilism was discussed by the Buddha (563 B.C. to 483 B.C.), as recorded in the Theravada and Mahayana Tripiṭaka. The Tripiṭaka, originally written in Pali, refers to nihilism as \"natthikavāda\" and the nihilist view as \"micchādiṭṭhi\". Various sutras within it describe a multiplicity of views held by different sects of ascetics while the Buddha was alive, some of which were viewed by him to be morally nihilistic. In the Doctrine of Nihilism in the Appannaka Sutta, the Buddha describes moral nihilists as holding the following views:\n\n\nThe Buddha then states that those who hold these views will not see the danger in misconduct and the blessings in good conduct and will, therefore, avoid good bodily, verbal and mental conduct; practicing misconduct instead.\n\nThe culmination of the path that the Buddha taught was Nirvana, \"a place of nothingness... nonpossession and... non-attachment... [which is] the total end of death and decay\". In an article Ajahn Amaro, a practicing Buddhist monk of more than 30 years, observes that in English 'nothingness' can sound like nihilism. However the word could be emphasised in a different way, so that it becomes 'no-thingness', indicating that Nirvana is not a thing you can find, but rather a place where you experience the reality of non-grasping.\n\nIn the Alagaddupama Sutta, the Buddha describes how some individuals feared his teaching because they believe that their 'self' would be destroyed if they followed it. He describes this as an anxiety caused by the false belief in an unchanging, everlasting 'self'. All things are subject to change and taking any impermanent phenomena to be a 'self' causes suffering. Nonetheless, his critics called him a nihilist who teaches the annihilation and extermination of an existing being. The Buddha's response was that he only teaches the cessation of suffering. When an individual has given up craving and the conceit of 'I am' their mind is liberated, they no longer come into any state of 'being' and are no longer born again.\n\nThe Aggivacchagotta Sutta records a conversation between the Buddha and an individual named Vaccha that further elaborates on this. In it Vaccha asks the Buddha to confirm one of the following, with respect to the existence of the Buddha after death:\n\n\nTo all four questions, the Buddha answers that the terms 'appear', 'not appear', 'does and does not reappear' and 'neither does nor does not reappear' do not apply. When Vaccha expresses puzzlement, the Buddha asks Vaccha a counter question to the effect of: if a fire were to go out and someone were to ask you whether the fire went north, south east or west how would you reply? Vaccha replies that the question does not apply and that a fire gone out can only be classified as 'out'.\n\nThanissaro Bikkhu elaborates on the classification problem around the words 'reappear' etc. with respect to the Buddha and Nirvana by stating that a \"person who has attained the goal [Nirvana] is thus indescribable because [they have] abandoned all things by which [they] could be described\". The Suttas themselves describe the liberated mind as 'untraceable' or as 'consciousness without feature', making no distinction between the mind of a liberated being that is alive and the mind of one that is no longer alive.\n\nDespite the Buddha's explanations to the contrary, Buddhist practitioners may, at times, still approach Buddhism in a nihilistic manner. Ajahn Amaro illustrates this by retelling the story of a Buddhist monk, Ajahn Sumedho, who in his early years took a nihilistic approach to Nirvana. A distinct feature of Nirvana in Buddhism is that an individual attaining it is no longer subject to rebirth. Ajahn Sumedho, during a conversation with his teacher Ajahn Chah comments that he is \"determined above all things to fully realize Nirvāna in this lifetime... deeply weary of the human condition and... [is] determined not to be born again\". To this Ajahn Chah replies \"what about the rest of us, Sumedho? Don't you care about those who'll be left behind?\". Ajahn Amaro comments that Ajahn Chah could detect that his student had a nihilistic aversion to life rather than true detachment. With his response, Ajahn Chah chided Ajahn Sumedho about the latter's narrowness and opened his eyes to this attitude of self centred nihilism.\n\nThe term \"nihilism\" was first used by Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi (1743–1819). Jacobi used the term to characterize rationalism and in particular Immanuel Kant's \"critical\" philosophy to carry out a reductio ad absurdum according to which all rationalism (philosophy as criticism) reduces to nihilism—and thus it should be avoided and replaced with a return to some type of faith and revelation. Bret W. Davis writes, for example, \"The first philosophical development of the idea of nihilism is generally ascribed to Friedrich Jacobi, who in a famous letter criticized Fichte's idealism as falling into nihilism. According to Jacobi, Fichte's absolutization of the ego (the 'absolute I' that posits the 'not-I') is an inflation of subjectivity that denies the absolute transcendence of God.\" A related but oppositional concept is fideism, which sees reason as hostile and inferior to faith.\n\nWith the popularizing of the word \"nihilism\" by Ivan Turgenev, a new Russian political movement called the Nihilist movement adopted the term. They supposedly called themselves nihilists because nothing \"that then existed found favor in their eyes\". This movement was significant enough that, even in the English speaking world, at the turn of the 20th century the word nihilism without qualification was almost exclusively associated with this Russian revolutionary sociopolitical movement .\n\nSøren Kierkegaard (1813–1855) posited an early form of nihilism, which he referred to as \"leveling\". He saw leveling as the process of suppressing individuality to a point where an individual's uniqueness becomes non-existent and nothing meaningful in one's existence can be affirmed:\n\nKierkegaard, an advocate of a philosophy of life, generally argued against levelling and its nihilistic consequences, although he believed it would be \"genuinely educative to live in the age of levelling [because] people will be forced to face the judgement of [levelling] alone.\" George Cotkin asserts Kierkegaard was against \"the standardization and levelling of belief, both spiritual and political, in the nineteenth century,\" and that Kierkegaard \"opposed tendencies in mass culture to reduce the individual to a cipher of conformity and deference to the dominant opinion.\" In his day, tabloids (like the Danish magazine \"Corsaren\") and apostate Christianity were instruments of levelling and contributed to the \"reflective apathetic age\" of 19th century Europe. Kierkegaard argues that individuals who can overcome the levelling process are stronger for it, and that it represents a step in the right direction towards \"becoming a true self.\" As we must overcome levelling, Hubert Dreyfus and Jane Rubin argue that Kierkegaard's interest, \"in an increasingly nihilistic age, is in how we can recover the sense that our lives are meaningful\".\n\nNote, however, that Kierkegaard's meaning of \"nihilism\" differs from the modern definition, in the sense that, for Kierkegaard, levelling led to a life lacking meaning, purpose or value, whereas the modern interpretation of nihilism posits that there was never any meaning, purpose or value to begin with.\n\nNihilism is often associated with the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, who provided a detailed diagnosis of nihilism as a widespread phenomenon of Western culture. Though the notion appears frequently throughout Nietzsche's work, he uses the term in a variety of ways, with different meanings and connotations. Karen Carr describes Nietzsche's characterization of nihilism \"as a condition of tension, as a disproportion between what we want to value (or need) and how the world appears to operate.\" When we find out that the world does not possess the objective value or meaning that we want it to have or have long since believed it to have, we find ourselves in a crisis. Nietzsche asserts that with the decline of Christianity and the rise of physiological decadence, nihilism is in fact characteristic of the modern age, though he implies that the rise of nihilism is still incomplete and that it has yet to be overcome. Though the problem of nihilism becomes especially explicit in Nietzsche's notebooks (published posthumously), it is mentioned repeatedly in his published works and is closely connected to many of the problems mentioned there.\n\nNietzsche characterized nihilism as emptying the world and especially human existence of meaning, purpose, comprehensible truth, or essential value. This observation stems in part from Nietzsche's perspectivism, or his notion that \"knowledge\" is always by someone of some thing: it is always bound by perspective, and it is never mere fact. Rather, there are interpretations through which we understand the world and give it meaning. Interpreting is something we can not go without; in fact, it is something we \"need\". One way of interpreting the world is through morality, as one of the fundamental ways that people make sense of the world, especially in regard to their own thoughts and actions. Nietzsche distinguishes a morality that is strong or healthy, meaning that the person in question is aware that he constructs it himself, from weak morality, where the interpretation is projected on to something external. \n\nNietzsche discusses Christianity, one of the major topics in his work, at length in the context of the problem of nihilism in his notebooks, in a chapter entitled \"European Nihilism\". Here he states that the Christian moral doctrine provides people with intrinsic value, belief in God (which justifies the evil in the world) and a basis for objective knowledge. In this sense, in constructing a world where objective knowledge is possible, Christianity is an antidote against a primal form of nihilism, against the despair of meaninglessness. However, it is exactly the element of truthfulness in Christian doctrine that is its undoing: in its drive towards truth, Christianity eventually finds itself to be a construct, which leads to its own dissolution. It is therefore that Nietzsche states that we have outgrown Christianity \"not because we lived too far from it, rather because we lived too close\". As such, the self-dissolution of Christianity constitutes yet another form of nihilism. Because Christianity was an interpretation that posited itself as \"the\" interpretation, Nietzsche states that this dissolution leads beyond skepticism to a distrust of \"all\" meaning.\n\nStanley Rosen identifies Nietzsche's concept of nihilism with a situation of meaninglessness, in which \"everything is permitted.\" According to him, the loss of higher metaphysical values that exist in contrast to the base reality of the world, or merely human ideas, gives rise to the idea that all human ideas are therefore valueless. Rejecting idealism thus results in nihilism, because only similarly transcendent ideals live up to the previous standards that the nihilist still implicitly holds. The inability for Christianity to serve as a source of valuating the world is reflected in Nietzsche's famous aphorism of the madman in \"The Gay Science\". The death of God, in particular the statement that \"we killed him\", is similar to the \"self\"-dissolution of Christian doctrine: due to the advances of the sciences, which for Nietzsche show that man is the product of evolution, that Earth has no special place among the stars and that history is not progressive, the Christian notion of God can no longer serve as a basis for a morality.\n\nOne such reaction to the loss of meaning is what Nietzsche calls \"passive nihilism\", which he recognises in the pessimistic philosophy of Schopenhauer. Schopenhauer's doctrine, which Nietzsche also refers to as Western Buddhism, advocates a separating of oneself from will and desires in order to reduce suffering. Nietzsche characterises this ascetic attitude as a \"will to nothingness\", whereby life turns away from itself, as there is nothing of value to be found in the world. This mowing away of all value in the world is characteristic of the nihilist, although in this, the nihilist appears inconsistent:\n\nNietzsche's relation to the problem of nihilism is a complex one. He approaches the problem of nihilism as deeply personal, stating that this predicament of the modern world is a problem that has \"become conscious\" in him. Furthermore, he emphasises both the danger of nihilism and the possibilities it offers, as seen in his statement that \"I praise, I do not reproach, [nihilism's] arrival. I believe it is one of the greatest crises, a moment of the deepest self-reflection of humanity. Whether man recovers from it, whether he becomes master of this crisis, is a question of his strength!\" According to Nietzsche, it is only when nihilism is \"overcome\" that a culture can have a true foundation upon which to thrive. He wished to hasten its coming only so that he could also hasten its ultimate departure.\n\nHe states that there is at least the possibility of another type of nihilist in the wake of Christianity's self-dissolution, one that does \"not\" stop after the destruction of all value and meaning and succumb to the following nothingness. This alternate, 'active' nihilism on the other hand destroys to level the field for constructing something new. This form of nihilism is characterized by Nietzsche as \"a sign of strength,\" a willful destruction of the old values to wipe the slate clean and lay down one's own beliefs and interpretations, contrary to the passive nihilism that resigns itself with the decomposition of the old values. This willful destruction of values and the overcoming of the condition of nihilism by the constructing of new meaning, this active nihilism, could be related to what Nietzsche elsewhere calls a 'free spirit' or the \"Übermensch\" from \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\" and \"The Antichrist\", the model of the strong individual who posits his own values and lives his life as if it were his own work of art. It may be questioned, though, whether \"active nihilism\" is indeed the correct term for this stance, and some question whether Nietzsche takes the problems nihilism poses seriously enough.\n\nMartin Heidegger's interpretation of Nietzsche influenced many postmodern thinkers who investigated the problem of nihilism as put forward by Nietzsche. Only recently has Heidegger's influence on Nietzschean nihilism research faded. As early as the 1930s, Heidegger was giving lectures on Nietzsche's thought. Given the importance of Nietzsche's contribution to the topic of nihilism, Heidegger's influential interpretation of Nietzsche is important for the historical development of the term \"nihilism\".\n\nHeidegger's method of researching and teaching Nietzsche is explicitly his own. He does not specifically try to present Nietzsche \"as\" Nietzsche. He rather tries to incorporate Nietzsche's thoughts into his own philosophical system of Being, Time and \"Dasein\". In his \"Nihilism as Determined by the History of Being\" (1944–46), Heidegger tries to understand Nietzsche's nihilism as trying to achieve a victory through the devaluation of the, until then, highest values. The principle of this devaluation is, according to Heidegger, the Will to Power. The Will to Power is also the principle of every earlier \"valuation\" of values. How does this devaluation occur and why is this nihilistic? One of Heidegger's main critiques on philosophy is that philosophy, and more specifically metaphysics, has forgotten to discriminate between investigating the notion of \"a\" being (\"Seiende\") and \"Being\" (\"Sein\"). According to Heidegger, the history of Western thought can be seen as the history of metaphysics. And because metaphysics has forgotten to ask about the notion of Being (what Heidegger calls \"\"), it is a history about the destruction of Being. That is why Heidegger calls metaphysics nihilistic. This makes Nietzsche's metaphysics not a victory over nihilism, but a perfection of it.\n\nHeidegger, in his interpretation of Nietzsche, has been inspired by Ernst Jünger. Many references to Jünger can be found in Heidegger's lectures on Nietzsche. For example, in a letter to the rector of Freiburg University of November 4, 1945, Heidegger, inspired by Jünger, tries to explain the notion of \"God is dead\" as the \"reality of the Will to Power.\" Heidegger also praises Jünger for defending Nietzsche against a too biological or anthropological reading during the Nazi era.\n\nHeidegger's interpretation of Nietzsche influenced a number of important postmodernist thinkers. Gianni Vattimo points at a back-and-forth movement in European thought, between Nietzsche and Heidegger. During the 1960s, a Nietzschean 'renaissance' began, culminating in the work of Mazzino Montinari and Giorgio Colli. They began work on a new and complete edition of Nietzsche's collected works, making Nietzsche more accessible for scholarly research. Vattimo explains that with this new edition of Colli and Montinari, a critical reception of Heidegger's interpretation of Nietzsche began to take shape. Like other contemporary French and Italian philosophers, Vattimo does not want, or only partially wants, to rely on Heidegger for understanding Nietzsche. On the other hand, Vattimo judges Heidegger's intentions authentic enough to keep pursuing them. Philosophers who Vattimo exemplifies as a part of this back and forth movement are French philosophers Deleuze, Foucault and Derrida. Italian philosophers of this same movement are Cacciari, Severino and himself. Jürgen Habermas, Jean-François Lyotard and Richard Rorty are also philosophers who are influenced by Heidegger's interpretation of Nietzsche.\n\nPostmodern and poststructuralist thought has questioned the very grounds on which Western cultures have based their 'truths': absolute knowledge and meaning, a 'decentralization' of authorship, the accumulation of positive knowledge, historical progress, and certain ideals and practices of humanism and the Enlightenment.\n\nJacques Derrida, whose deconstruction is perhaps most commonly labeled nihilistic, did not himself make the nihilistic move that others have claimed. Derridean deconstructionists argue that this approach rather frees texts, individuals or organizations from a restrictive truth, and that deconstruction opens up the possibility of other ways of being. Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, for example, uses deconstruction to create an ethics of opening up Western scholarship to the voice of the subaltern and to philosophies outside of the canon of western texts. Derrida himself built a philosophy based upon a 'responsibility to the other'. Deconstruction can thus be seen not as a denial of truth, but as a denial of our ability to know truth. That is to say, it makes an epistemological claim compared to nihilism's ontological claim).\n\nLyotard argues that, rather than relying on an objective truth or method to prove their claims, philosophers legitimize their truths by reference to a story about the world that can't be separated from the age and system the stories belong to—referred to by Lyotard as \"meta-narratives.\" He then goes on to define the postmodern condition as characterized by a rejection both of these meta-narratives and of the process of legitimation by meta-narratives.\n\nIn lieu of meta-narratives we have created new language-games in order to legitimize our claims which rely on changing relationships and mutable truths, none of which is privileged over the other to speak to ultimate truth. \n\nThis concept of the instability of truth and meaning leads in the direction of nihilism, though Lyotard stops short of embracing the latter.\n\nPostmodern theorist Jean Baudrillard wrote briefly of nihilism from the postmodern viewpoint in \"Simulacra and Simulation\". He stuck mainly to topics of interpretations of the real world over the simulations of which the real world is composed. The uses of meaning were an important subject in Baudrillard's discussion of nihilism:\n\nIn \"Nihil Unbound: Extinction and Enlightenment\", Ray Brassier maintains that philosophy has avoided the traumatic idea of extinction, instead attempting to find meaning in a world conditioned by the very idea of its own annihilation. Thus Brassier critiques both the phenomenological and hermeneutic strands of Continental philosophy as well as the vitality of thinkers like Gilles Deleuze, who work to ingrain meaning in the world and stave off the \"threat\" of nihilism. Instead, drawing on thinkers such as Alain Badiou, François Laruelle, Paul Churchland, and Thomas Metzinger, Brassier defends a view of the world as inherently devoid of meaning. That is, rather than avoiding nihilism, Brassier embraces it as the truth of reality. Brassier concludes from his readings of Badiou and Laruelle that the universe is founded on the nothing, but also that philosophy is the \"organon of extinction,\" that it is only because life is conditioned by its own extinction that there is thought at all. Brassier then defends a radically anti-correlationist philosophy proposing that Thought is conjoined not with Being, but with Non-Being.\n\nThe term \"Dada\" was first used by Richard Huelsenbeck and Tristan Tzara in 1916. The movement, which lasted from approximately 1916 to 1922, arose during World War I, an event that influenced the artists. The Dada Movement began in the old town of Zürich, Switzerland – known as the \"Niederdorf\" or \"Niederdörfli\" – in the Café Voltaire. The Dadaists claimed that Dada was not an art movement, but an anti-art movement, sometimes using found objects in a manner similar to found poetry. \n\nThe \"anti-art\" drive is thought to have stemmed from a post-war emptiness. This tendency toward devaluation of art has led many to claim that Dada was an essentially nihilistic movement. Given that Dada created its own means for interpreting its products, it is difficult to classify alongside most other contemporary art expressions. Due to perceived ambiguity, it has been classified as a nihilistic \"modus vivendi\".\n\nThe term \"nihilism\" was actually popularized by Ivan Turgenev in his novel \"Fathers and Sons,\" whose hero, Bazarov, was a nihilist and recruited several followers to the philosophy. He found his nihilistic ways challenged upon falling in love.\n\nAnton Chekhov portrayed nihilism when writing \"Three Sisters\". The phrase \"what does it matter\" or variants of this are often spoken by several characters in response to events; the significance of some of these events suggests a subscription to nihilism by said characters as a type of coping strategy.\n\nThe philosophical ideas of the French author, the Marquis de Sade, are often noted as early examples of nihilistic principles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3137222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3137222", "title": "Odo II, Count of Blois", "text": "Odo II, Count of Blois\n\nOdo II () (983 – 15 November 1037) was the Count of Blois, Chartres, Châteaudun, Beauvais and Tours from 1004 and Count of Troyes (as Odo IV) and Meaux (as Odo I) from 1022. He twice tried to make himself a king: first in Italy after 1024 and then in Burgundy after 1032.\n\nOdo II was the son of Odo I of Blois and Bertha of Burgundy. He was the first to unite Blois and Champagne under one authority although his career was spent in endless feudal warfare with his neighbors and suzerains, many of whose territories he tried to annex.\n\nAbout 1003/4 he married Maud, a daughter of Richard I of Normandy. After her death in 1005, and as she had no children, Richard II of Normandy demanded a return of her dowry: half the county of Dreux. Odo refused and the two warred over the matter. Finally, King Robert II, who had married Odo's mother, imposed his arbitration on the contestants in 1007, leaving Odo in possession of the castle Dreux while Richard II kept the remainder of the lands. Odo quickly married a second wife, Ermengarde, daughter of .\n\nDefeated by Fulk III, Count of Anjou, and Herbert I, Count of Maine, at the Battle of Pontlevoy in July 1016, he quickly tried to overrun the Touraine. After the death of his cousin Stephen I in 1019/20, without heirs he seized Troyes, Meaux and all of Champagne for himself without royal approval. From there he attacked Ebles, the archbishop of Reims, and Theodoric I, Duke of Lorraine. Due to an alliance between the king and the Emperor Henry II he was forced to relinquish the county of Rheims to the archbishop.\n\nHe was offered the crown of Italy by the Lombard barons, but the offer was quickly retracted in order not to upset relations with the king of France. In 1032, he invaded the Kingdom of Burgundy on the death of Rudolph III. He retreated in the face of a coalition of the Emperor Conrad II and the new king of France, Henry I. He died in combat near Bar-le-Duc during another attack on Lorraine.\n\nBy his second wife, Ermengarde of Auvergne, Odo had three children:\n"}
{"id": "12359858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12359858", "title": "Pad abort test", "text": "Pad abort test\n\nA pad abort test is a test of a launch escape system to determine how well the system could get the crew of a spacecraft to safety in an emergency on the launch pad.\n\n\"Section sources.\"\n\nThe Mercury program included several pad abort tests for the launch escape system with a boilerplate crew module. \n\nThe Apollo program included several pad abort tests for the launch escape system with a boilerplate crew module.\n\n\nBoth tests were conducted at the White Sands Missile Range.\n\nThe Orion Pad Abort Test will start with the construction of the first Orion boilerplate. It will be a basic mockup prototype to test the assembling sequences and launch procedures at NASA’s Langley Research Center while Lockheed aerospace engineers assemble the first rocket motors for the spacecraft’s escape tower. Lockheed Martin Corp. was awarded the contract to build Orion on Aug. 31, 2006. The first Pad Abort Test trial of the escape tower system was successfully completed at New Mexico’s White Sands Missile Range on May 6, 2010.\n\nSpaceX Dragon V2 Pad Abort Test-1 was conducted on May 6, 2015.\n\nThe pad abort test was conducted successfully on 6 May 2015 at approximately 0900 Eastern Daylight Time (EDT). The vehicle splashed down safely in the ocean to the east of the launchpad 99 seconds later. A fuel mixture ratio issue was detected after the flight in one of the eight SuperDraco engines, but did not materially affect the flight. More detailed test results were to be subsequently analyzed by both SpaceX and NASA engineers.\n\nOn 5 July 2018, Indian Space Research Organisation successfully conducted 'pad abort' test at Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota. A first in a series of tests to qualify a Crew Escape System.\n\nAfter a smooth countdown of 5 hours, the Crew Escape System along with the simulated crew module with a mass of 12.6 tonnes, lifted off at 07.00 AM (IST) at the opening of the launch window from its pad at Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota today. The test was over in 259 seconds, during which the Crew Escape System along with crew module soared skyward, then arced out over the Bay of Bengal and floated back to Earth under its parachutes about 2.9 km from Sriharikota. \n\n"}
{"id": "150463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150463", "title": "Parable", "text": "Parable\n\nA parable is a succinct, didactic story, in prose or verse that illustrates one or more instructive lessons or principles. It differs from a fable in that fables employ animals, plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature as characters, whereas parables have human characters. A parable is a type of analogy.\n\nSome scholars of the canonical gospels and the New Testament apply the term \"parable\" only to the parables of Jesus, though that is not a common restriction of the term. Parables such as \"The Prodigal Son\" are central to Jesus's teaching method in the canonical narratives and the apocrypha.\n\nThe word \"parable\" comes from the Greek παραβολή (\"parabolē\"), meaning \"comparison, illustration, analogy.\" It was the name given by Greek rhetoricians to an illustration in the form of a brief fictional narrative.\n\nParables are often used to explore ethical concepts in spiritual texts. The Bible contains numerous parables in the Gospels section of the New Testament (Jesus's parables). These are believed by some scholars (such as John P. Meier) to have been inspired by mashalim, a form of Hebrew comparison. Examples of Jesus' parables include the Good Samaritan and the Prodigal Son. Mashalim from the Old Testament include the parable of the ewe-lamb (told by Nathan in 2 Samuel 12:1-9) and the parable of the woman of Tekoah (in 2 Samuel 14:1-13 ).\n\nParables also appear in Islam. In Sufi tradition, parables are used for imparting lessons and values. Recent authors such as Idries Shah and Anthony de Mello have helped popularize these stories beyond Sufi circles.\n\nModern parables also exist. A mid-19th-century example, the Parable of the broken window, criticises a part of economic thinking.\n\nA parable is a short tale that illustrates a universal truth; it is a simple narrative. It sketches a setting, describes an action, and shows the results. It may sometimes be distinguished from similar narrative types, such as the allegory and the apologue.\n\nA parable often involves a character who faces a moral dilemma or one who makes a bad decision and then suffers the unintended consequences. Although the meaning of a parable is often not explicitly stated, it is not intended to be hidden or secret but to be quite straightforward and obvious.\n\nThe defining characteristic of the parable is the presence of a subtext suggesting how a person should behave or what he should believe. Aside from providing guidance and suggestions for proper conduct in one's life, parables frequently use metaphorical language which allows people to more easily discuss difficult or complex ideas. Parables express an abstract argument by means of using a concrete narrative which is easily understood.\n\nThe allegory is a more general narrative type; it also employs metaphor. Like the parable, the allegory makes a single, unambiguous point. An allegory may have multiple noncontradictory interpretations and may also have implications that are ambiguous or hard to interpret. As H.W. Fowler put it, the object of both parable and allegory \"is to enlighten the hearer by submitting to him a case in which he has apparently no direct concern, and upon which therefore a disinterested judgment may be elicited from him, ...\" The parable is more condensed than the allegory: it rests upon a single principle and a single moral, and it is intended that the reader or listener shall conclude that the moral applies equally well to his own concerns.\n\nMedieval interpreters of the Bible often treated Jesus' parables as allegories, with symbolic correspondences found for every element in his parables. But modern scholars, beginning with Adolf Jülicher, regard their interpretations as incorrect. Jülicher held that Jesus' parables are intended to make a single important point, and most recent scholarship agrees.\n\nGnostics suggested that Jesus kept some of his teachings secret within the circle of his disciples and that he deliberately obscured their meaning by using parables. For example, in Mark 4:11–12:\n\nThe parable is related to figures of speech such as the metaphor and the simile, but it should not be identified with them.\n\nA parable is like a metaphor in that it uses concrete, perceptible phenomena to illustrate abstract ideas. It may be said that a parable is a metaphor that has been extended to form a brief, coherent narrative.\n\nA parable also resembles a simile, i.e., a metaphorical construction in which something is said to be \"like\" something else (e.g., \"The just man is like a tree planted by streams of water\"). However, unlike the meaning of a simile, a parable's meaning is implicit (although not secret).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215123", "title": "Sampson Salter Blowers", "text": "Sampson Salter Blowers\n\nSampson Salter Blowers (March 10, 1742 – October 25, 1842) was a noted North American lawyer, Loyalist and jurist from Nova Scotia who, along with Chief Justice Thomas Andrew Lumisden Strange, waged \"judicial war\" in his efforts to free Black Nova Scotian slaves from their owners.\n\nHe was born in Boston, the son of John Blowers III and Sarah Salter, but raised by his maternal grandfather, Sampson Salter, after the death of his parents. He was educated in Boston and at Harvard College, then went on to study law. Blowers is probably most noted as one of the defence attorneys representing the soldiers accused after the Boston Massacre, along with such notables as John Adams and Josiah Quincy Jr. He worked in the office of Governor Thomas Hutchinson.\n\nIn 1774, he married Sarah Kent, daughter of patriot lawyer Benjamin Kent, and went to England with her later that year. He returned to Newport, Rhode Island in 1778; he was arrested after travelling to Boston to visit his sick wife. He was later released and returned to Newport as a judge in the vice admiralty court.\n\nIn 1783, he went to Halifax, Nova Scotia. The following year, he was appointed attorney general for New Brunswick but refused the post, not wanting to relocate his family. Later that year, he was named attorney general for Nova Scotia. In 1785, he was elected to the Nova Scotia House of Assembly for Halifax County and was chosen to be speaker for the assembly. In 1788, he was named to the Nova Scotia Council. \n\nIn his later years, he served as Chief Justice of Nova Scotia for 36 years, from 1797 to 1832. Blowers was also judge in the vice admiralty court from 1821-33. Because Blowers put the onus on slave owners to prove that they had a legal right to purchase slaves, slavery died out in Nova Scotia early in the 19th century. He was a member of the board of governors for King's College in Windsor, Nova Scotia.\n\nSolicitor General Richard John Uniacke beat Jonathan Sterns so \"savagely\" that died. Sterns was Blowers' protégé who afterward challenged Uniacke to a dual, which Uniacke accepted but then contacted the police.\n\nBlowers died in Halifax in 1842, aged 100, soon after he broke his hip in a fall. Most of his estate went to his adopted daughter, Sarah Ann Anderson, who had married William Blowers Bliss. He is buried in the crypt of St. Paul's Church (Halifax).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45156172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45156172", "title": "Siphonogamy", "text": "Siphonogamy\n\nSiphonogamy is a condition in plants in which pollen tubes are developed for the transfer of the male cells to the eggs. The seed plants are siphonogamous, while in the lower plants the male cells usually swim to the eggs. As a consequence, the spermatophytes were sometimes called siphonogams.\n"}
{"id": "378130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378130", "title": "Snowflake (gorilla)", "text": "Snowflake (gorilla)\n\nSnowflake (, ; c. 1964 – 2003) was an albino Western lowland gorilla. He was kept at Barcelona Zoo in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain from 1966 until his death.\n\nSnowflake was captured in the Rio Muni region in Equatorial Guinea on October 1, 1966 by ethnic Fang farmer Benito Mañé. Mañé had killed the rest of Snowflake's gorilla group (who were normal in color). Mañé then kept Snowflake at his home for four days before transporting him to Bata, where he was purchased by primatologist Jordi Sabater Pi.\n\nOriginally named \"Nfumu Ngui\" in Fang language (\"white gorilla\") by his captor, he was then nicknamed \"Copito de nieve\" (Spanish for \"little snowflake\") by his keeper Jordi Sabater Pi.\n\nSnowflake was a Western lowland gorilla with non-syndromic oculocutaneous albinism. Snowflake had unpigmented skin and hair.\n\nSnowflake had poor vision, which is associated with albinism. A test to try to determine whether Snowflake had a central blind spot did not find one. Barcelona Zoo director Antonio Jonch wrote: \"The eye had a blueish sclera, a normal cornea, and a light blue iris which was very transparent to transillumination. Accommodation and refraction were normal. The media were transparent and the fundus of the eye normal and totally depigmented. The choroidal vessels were perfectly visible and the pupil was normal. The animal displayed marked photophobia which caused it to close its eyes repeatedly when exposed to bright light. In diffuse light similar to that in its biotope, we calculated that it blinked on an average of 20 times a minute.\"\n\nStudy of Snowflake's genome determined that his parents had 12% of their DNA in common, leading researchers to believe that his parents were uncle and niece. The same study revealed that his albinism was caused by a mutation of SLC45A2 gene. Snowflake received the recessive gene from both parents, causing his albinism.\n\nUpon his arrival to Barcelona in November 1966, he was given an official reception by the then Mayor of Barcelona, Josep Maria de Porcioles and called \"Blancanieves\" (\"Snow White\") in the newspaper \"Tele/Exprés\". But he became famous with the name given to him by Sabater when \"National Geographic Magazine\" featured him on the cover in March 1967, with the English name Snowflake. This name spread among the press (\"Stern\", \"Life\", \"Paris-Match\"). Sabater himself called the gorilla \"Copi\" or \"Floquet\", and in the later years \"Nfumu\". He was also known as \"Little Buttercup\", and as the \"Vanilla Gorilla\".\n\nAt first, the Barcelona Zoo was not aware that Snowflake was a unique specimen. They sent a message to Sabater Pi saying, \"Please send more white gorillas.\" The zoo later hoped to produce a genetic strain and an entire family group of white gorillas through selective breeding. The Barcelona Zoo had a protocol in place to have Snowflake's testicles harvested, upon his death, and placed in the frozen zoo so as to reserve the option of having more offspring from him in the future. Snowflake's genes would have been considered particularly valuable because he was wild caught, and therefore one of the genetic founders to the captive population of Western lowland gorillas, which are endangered, and are being managed by AZA SSP/EEP captive breeding programs for wildlife conservation.\n\nIn 1986 the Barcelona Zoo enlisted British zoo veterinarian David Taylor to collect sperm from Snowflake for artificial insemination. Although the attempt was unsuccessful, the story was carried by newspapers the world over.\n\nSnowflake fathered twenty-two offspring by three different mates, or \"dams\". Six of his offspring survived to adulthood. None of Snowflake's offspring were albino, but all should be heterozygous, recessive carriers, for the albino gene. Half of his grandchildren likely carry the albino gene. If both parents were albino gene carriers they have 25% chance of producing an albino offspring.\n\nAs of May 2014, Snowflake had a total of 21 grandchildren (11 survived) and four great-grandchildren (all living). Snowflake's great-grandson N'Kou has pink fingers which is perhaps suggestive of partial albinism.\n\nIn 2001, Snowflake was diagnosed with an unusual form of skin cancer, almost certainly related to his albinism condition. By 2003, Snowflake's health began to deteriorate. After he began losing interest in his usual activities, isolating himself from other gorillas and exhibiting signs of physical pain, Snowflake's keepers decided to euthanize him. The decision was publicly announced in September 2003. Thousands of people visited Snowflake at the Barcelona Zoo before he was euthanized on November 24, 2003. At the time of his death, Snowflake was thought to be between 38 and 40 years old.\n\n\nOther albino (or white-furred) gorillas similar in appearance to Snowflake have appeared in different media appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "20833077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20833077", "title": "The Devil's Chair (urban legend)", "text": "The Devil's Chair (urban legend)\n\nThe term devil’s chair (or \"haunted chair\") in folklore is frequently attached to a class of funerary or memorial sculpture common in the United States during the nineteenth century and often associated with legend tripping. Nineteenth-century graveyards sometimes included carved chairs for the comfort of visitors. In this function, the object was known as a \"mourning chair,\" and cemeteries have since provided benches for similar purposes, most often movable units of the type used in parks, but also specimens in the tradition of the carved chairs. \n\nSome carved chairs were probably not intended for use as anything but monuments, while the \"monubench\" is still commercially available. Once the original purpose of these chairs fell out of fashion, superstitions developed in association with the act of sitting in them. In a typical example, local young people dare one another to visit the site, most often after dark, at midnight, or on some specified night such as Halloween or New Year’s Eve. Variously, the stories suggest the person brave enough to sit in the chair at such a time may be punished for impudence or rewarded for courage.\nThe Devil's Chair or Devil's Armchair in Ulverston is an ambiguous chair that appears to have been carved into a small rocky terrain, which is used for climbing, near the monument Hoad in Ulverston. Sometimes the rock 'wall' itself is referred to as the Devil's Armchair but that is because at the top there is a \"chair\" large enough for four adults to sit in which is carved into the rock surface. Naturally or not, no-one knows.\n\nThe devil's chair here is a natural large craggy outcrop on the summit of the Stiperstones, a narrow north to south orientated ridge of the highest ground of the range, the Shropshire Hills AONB.\n\nThe Devil's Chair in Cassadaga, Florida is a graveside bench in the cemetery that borders Cassadaga and Lake Helen. According to one local legend, an unopened can of beer left on the chair will be empty by morning. In some accounts, the can is opened, and in others, the beer is simply gone, through the unopened top. The Devil is sometimes said to appear to anyone so bold as to sit in the chair.\n\nThe Haunted Chair of Greenwood Cemetery, Decatur, IL.\n\nThe Devil's Chair in Guthrie Center, Iowa, is a cement-cast chair located in Union Cemetery, situated between two graves and unmarked as belonging to either. Local legend claims that bad luck will follow anyone who sits in it. While the cemetery itself was established as a private burial ground in 1885, the legend of the chair is only documented for approximately thirty years.\n\nThe Devil's Chair or Baird Chair as it is officially named in the Highland Park Cemetery of Kirksville, Missouri was placed in the cemetery by William Baird a prominent banker (whose bank building is now Pagliai's pizza) and is involved in \"numerous legends of a type widely replicated across the U.S., especially in rural and small-town communities, and beloved of young people... Some versions say that something dreadful will happen to the person so bold as to be seated in it at midnight (or on a particular evening, such as Halloween) -- a hand will emerge from the grave and drag the impious one down to the underworld. Other versions suggest the intrepid one will be rewarded.\" The chair itself was sculpted out of concrete by Charles Grassle of the Baird and Grassle marble company Kirksville MO and placed as a memorial for Anna and David Baird. Despite popular belief it does not act as a marker of any grave.\n\nOakwood Cemetery in Syracuse, NY contains a child-sized specimen.\nThe Duncan monument in the Fletcher Cemetery, Fletcher, OH appears to be a carved headstone rather than a mourning chair intended for use by cemetery visitors.\n\n\"The Empty Chair\" in Hope Cemetery, Barre, VT is actually a sculpted gravestone rather than being intended as a seat. However, the usual legends have grown up around it.\n\nThe lore may not be exclusive to the United States. In Torcello, the \"throne of Attila\" was probably in fact a magistrate's seat; local legend claims that a girl who sits in it will be married within a year.\n"}
{"id": "22511881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22511881", "title": "The Hundred Tales of Wisdom", "text": "The Hundred Tales of Wisdom\n\nThe Hundred Tales of Wisdom is a translation from the Persian by Idries Shah of the \"Life, Teachings and Miracles of Jalaludin Rumi\" from Aflaki’s \"Munaqib\", together with certain important stories from Rumi’s own works, traditionally known by that title. It was published by Octagon Press in 1978.\n\nThe tales, anecdotes and narratives in this collection are used in Sufi schools for the development of insights beyond ordinary perceptions. Although the number 100 is used in the title, in Idries Shah’s presentation there are 159 tales beginning with a brief description of Rumi’s childhood and youth.\n\nThe author Doris Lessing wrote in \"Books and Bookmen\": “The Hundred Tales is traditional hagiography, a classic studied for seven hundred years by students of the Sufi Way as part of the ‘curriculum’ – and that means Christians and Jews as well as Muslims. It concerns Rumi, the saint whose funeral was attended by members of these and other faiths, all saying he was their teacher. What has been needed is a simple and clear version ... and here it is.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1337152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1337152", "title": "Zoo hypothesis", "text": "Zoo hypothesis\n\nThe zoo hypothesis speculates as to the assumed behavior and existence of technically advanced extraterrestrial life and the reasons they refrain from contacting Earth and is one of many theoretical explanations for the Fermi paradox. The hypothesis is that alien life intentionally avoids communication with Earth, and one of its main interpretations is that it does so to allow for natural evolution and sociocultural development, avoiding interplanetary contamination, similarly to people observing animals at a zoo. The hypothesis seeks to explain the apparent absence of extraterrestrial life despite its generally accepted plausibility and hence the reasonable expectation of its existence.\n\nAliens might, for example, choose to allow contact once the human species has passed certain technological, political, or ethical standards. They might withhold contact until humans force contact upon them, possibly by sending a spacecraft to planets they inhabit. Alternatively, a reluctance to initiate contact could reflect a sensible desire to minimize risk. An alien society with advanced remote-sensing technologies may conclude that direct contact with neighbors confers added risks to oneself without an added benefit. \n\nThe zoo hypothesis assumes first that a large number of alien cultures exist, and second that these aliens have great reverence for independent, natural evolution and development. In particular, assuming that intelligence is a physical process that acts to maximize the diversity of a system's accessible futures, a fundamental motivation for the zoo hypothesis would be that premature contact would \"unintelligently\" reduce the overall diversity of paths the universe itself could take. \n\nThese ideas are perhaps most plausible if there is a relatively universal cultural or legal policy among a plurality of extraterrestrial civilizations necessitating isolation with respect to civilizations at Earth-like stages of development. In a universe without a hegemonic power, random single civilizations with independent principles would make contact. This makes a crowded Universe with clearly defined rules seem more plausible.\n\nIf there is a plurality of alien cultures, however, this theory may break down under the uniformity of motive concept because it would take just a single extraterrestrial civilization to decide to act contrary to the imperative within our range of detection for it to be undone, and the probability of such a violation increases with the number of civilizations. This idea, however, becomes more plausible if all civilizations tend to evolve similar cultural standards and values with regard to contact much like convergent evolution on Earth has independently evolved eyes on numerous occasions, or all civilizations follow the lead of some particularly distinguished civilization, such as the first civilization among them.\n\nWith this in mind, a modified zoo hypothesis becomes a more appealing answer to the Fermi paradox. The time between the emergence of the first civilization within the Milky Way and all subsequent civilizations could be enormous. Monte Carlo simulation shows the first few inter-arrival times between emergent civilizations would be similar in length to geologic epochs on Earth. Just what could a civilization do with a ten-million, one-hundred-million, or half-billion-year head start?\n\nEven if this first grand civilization is long gone, their initial legacy could live on in the form of a passed-down tradition, or perhaps an artificial life form dedicated to such a goal without the risk of death. Beyond this, it does not even have to be the first civilization, but simply the first to spread its doctrine and control over a large volume of the galaxy. If just one civilization gained this hegemony in the distant past, it could form an unbroken chain of taboo against rapacious colonization in favour of non-interference in those civilizations that follow. The uniformity of motive concept previously mentioned would become moot in such a situation.\n\nIf the oldest civilization still present in the Milky Way has, for example, a 100-million-year time advantage over the next oldest civilization, then it is conceivable that they could be in the singular position of being able to control, monitor, influence or isolate the emergence of every civilization that follows within their sphere of influence. This is analogous to what happens on Earth within our own civilization on a daily basis, in that everyone born on this planet is born into a pre-existing system of familial associations, customs, traditions and laws that were already long established before our birth and which we have little or no control over.\n\n"}
