{"id": "4228164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4228164", "title": "77: The Year of Punk and New Wave", "text": "77: The Year of Punk and New Wave\n\n77: The Year of Punk and New Wave (Helter Skelter Publishing, 2006) is a book by Henrik Poulsen that catalogues every punk rock band to have made a recording in the United Kingdom during the punk era. The book has about 200 entries starting with Acme Sewage Company and ending with the Zeros.\n\n"}
{"id": "39793552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39793552", "title": "Alleyne v. United States", "text": "Alleyne v. United States\n\nAlleyne v. United States, , was a United States Supreme Court case that decided that, in line with \"Apprendi v. New Jersey\" (2000), all facts that increase a mandatory minimum sentence must be submitted to and found true by a jury (not merely determined to be true by a judge's discretion). The majority opinion was written by Justice Clarence Thomas, joined by Justices Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan.\n\nIn the original trial, the defendant (Alleyne) was convicted of using or carrying a firearm in a violent crime, which carried a mandatory minimum penalty of five years' imprisonment. However, the mandatory minimum would rise to seven years if the accused were found to have \"brandished\" the firearm during the crime, and to ten years if he had fired it. In the original trial, the judge (not the jury) determined that Alleyne had probably brandished the firearm during the robbery, which caused the mandatory minimum sentence to rise to seven years (which was the sentence imposed).\n\nThe Supreme Court found that the question of whether or not the accused had brandished his weapon during the robbery was not merely a \"sentencing factor,\" which the judge could unilaterally decide, but an \"ingredient of the offense,\" which must be assessed and decided upon by the jury. The Court also expressly overruled \"Harris v. United States\" (2002), which had reached a contrary ruling.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21392941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21392941", "title": "Anglerfish", "text": "Anglerfish\n\nThe anglerfish is a fish of the teleost order Lophiiformes (). It is a bony fish named for its characteristic mode of predation, in which a fleshy growth from the fish's head (the esca or illicium) acts as a lure.\n\nSome anglerfish are also notable for extreme sexual dimorphism and sexual symbiosis of the small male with the much larger female, seen in the suborder Ceratioidei. In these species, males may be several orders of magnitude smaller than females.\n\nAnglerfish occur worldwide. Some are pelagic (dwelling away from the sea floor), while others are benthic (dwelling close to the sea floor); some live in the deep sea (e.g., Ceratiidae), while others on the continental shelf (e.g., the frogfishes Antennariidae and the monkfish/goosefish Lophiidae). Pelagic forms are most laterally compressed, whereas the benthic forms are often extremely dorsoventrally compressed (depressed), often with large upward-pointing mouths.\n\nA mitochondrial genome phylogenetic study suggested the anglerfishes diversified in a short period of the early to mid-Cretaceous, between 130 and 100 million years ago.\n\nFishBase, Nelson,\n\n\nAll anglerfish are carnivorous and are thus adapted for the capture of prey. Ranging in color from dark gray to dark brown, deep-sea species have large heads that bear enormous, crescent-shaped mouths full of long, fang-like teeth angled inward for efficient prey grabbing. Their length can vary from to over with weights up to . Frogfish and other shallow-water anglerfish species are ambush predators, and often appear camouflaged as rocks, sponges or seaweed. \n\nMost adult female ceratioid anglerfish have a luminescent organ called the esca at the tip of a modified dorsal ray (the illicium, or \"fishing rod\"). The organ has been hypothesized to serve the obvious purpose of luring prey in dark, deep-sea environments, but also serves to call males' attention to the females to facilitate mating.\n\nThe source of luminescence is symbiotic bacteria that dwell in and around the esca, enclosed in a cup-shaped reflector containing crystals, probably consisting of guanine. In some species, the bacteria recruited to the esca are incapable of luminescence independent of the anglerfish, suggesting they have developed a symbiotic relationship and the bacteria are unable to synthesize all of the chemicals necessary for luminescence on their own. They depend on the fish to make up the difference. Electron microscopy of these bacteria in some species reveals they are Gram-negative rods that lack capsules, spores, or flagella. They have double-layered cell walls and mesosomes. A pore connects the esca with the seawater, which enables the removal of dead bacteria and cellular waste, and allows the pH and tonicity of the culture medium to remain constant. This, as well as the constant temperature of the bathypelagic zone inhabited by these fish, is crucial for the long-term viability of bacterial cultures.\n\nThe light gland is always open to the exterior, so it is possible that the fish acquires the bacteria from the seawater. However, it appears that each species uses its own particular species of bacteria, and these bacteria have never been found in seawater. Haygood (1993) theorized that esca discharge bacteria during spawning and the bacteria are thereby transferred to the eggs.\n\nIn most species, a wide mouth extends all around the anterior circumference of the head, and bands of inwardly inclined teeth line both jaws. The teeth can be depressed so as to offer no impediment to an object gliding towards the stomach, but prevent its escape from the mouth. The anglerfish is able to distend both its jaw and its stomach, since its bones are thin and flexible, to enormous size, allowing it to swallow prey up to twice as large as its entire body.\n\nIn 2005, near Monterey, California, at 1474 metres depth, an ROV filmed a female ceratioid anglerfish of the genus \"Oneirodes\" for 24 minutes. When approached, the fish retreated rapidly, but in 74% of the video footage, it drifted passively, oriented at any angle. When advancing, it swam intermittently at a speed of 0.24 body lengths per second, beating its pectoral fins in-phase. The lethargic behaviour of this ambush predator is suited to the energy-poor environment of the deep sea.\nAnother in situ observation of three different whipnose anglerfish showed unusual upside-down swimming behavior. Fish were observed floating upside-down completely motionless with the illicium hanging down stiffly in a slight arch in front of the fish. The illicium was hanging over small visible burrows. It was suggested this is an effort to entice prey and an example of low-energy opportunistic foraging and predation. When the ROV approached the fish, they exhibited burst swimming, still upside-down.\n\nThe jaw and stomach of the anglerfish can extend to allow it to consume prey up to twice its size. Because of the small amount of food available in the anglerfish's environment this adaptation allows the anglerfish to store food when there is an abundance.\n\nThe name \"anglerfish\" derives from the species' characteristic method of predation. Anglerfish typically have at least one long filament sprouting from the middle of their heads, termed the illicium. The illicium is the detached and modified first three spines of the anterior dorsal fin. In most anglerfish species, the longest filament is the first. This first spine protrudes above the fish's eyes and terminates in an irregular growth of flesh (the esca), and can move in all directions. Anglerfish can wiggle the esca to make it resemble a prey animal, which lures the anglerfish's prey close enough for the anglerfish to devour them whole.\n\nSome deep-sea anglerfish of the bathypelagic zone emit light from their esca to attract prey. This bioluminescence is a result of symbiosis with bacteria. The mechanism that ceratioids use to harness them is unknown, but researchers speculate that the bacteria enter the esca through small pores from seawater. Once inside, they multiply until their density is sufficient to produce a bright collective glow.\n\nBecause anglerfish are opportunistic foragers, they show a range of preferred prey with fish at the extremes of the size spectrum, whilst showing increased selectivity for certain prey. One study examining the stomach contents of threadfin anglerfish off the Pacific coast of Central America found these fish primarily ate two categories of benthic prey: crustaceans and teleost fish. The most frequent prey were pandalid shrimp. 52% of the stomachs examined were empty, supporting the observations that anglerfish are low energy consumers.\n\nSome anglerfish, like those of the Ceratiidae, or sea devils employ an unusual mating method. Because individuals are locally rare, encounters are also very rare. Therefore, finding a mate is problematic. When scientists first started capturing ceratioid anglerfish, they noticed that all of the specimens were female. These individuals were a few centimetres in size and almost all of them had what appeared to be parasites attached to them. It turned out that these \"parasites\" were highly reduced male ceratioids. This indicates some taxa of anglerfish use a polyandrous mating system.\n\nCertain ceratioids rely on parabiotic reproduction. Free-living males and unparasitized females in these species never have fully developed gonads. Thus, males never mature without attaching to a female, and die if they cannot find one. At birth, male ceratioids are already equipped with extremely well-developed olfactory organs that detect scents in the water. Males of some species also develop large, highly specialized eyes that may aid in identifying mates in dark environments. The male ceratioid lives solely to find and mate with a female. They are significantly smaller than a female anglerfish, and may have trouble finding food in the deep sea. Furthermore, growth of the alimentary canals of some males becomes stunted, preventing them from feeding. Some taxa have jaws that are never suitable or effective for prey capture. These features mean the male must quickly find a female anglerfish to prevent death. The sensitive olfactory organs help the male to detect the pheromones that signal the proximity of a female anglerfish.\n\nHowever, the methods anglerfish use to locate mates vary. Some species have minute eyes that are unfit for identifying females, while others have underdeveloped nostrils, making them unlikely to effectively find females by smell. When a male finds a female, he bites into her skin, and releases an enzyme that digests the skin of his mouth and her body, fusing the pair down to the blood-vessel level. The male becomes dependent on the female host for survival by receiving nutrients via their shared circulatory system, and provides sperm to the female in return. After fusing, males increase in volume and become much larger relative to free-living males of the species. They live and remain reproductively functional as long as the female lives, and can take part in multiple spawnings. This extreme sexual dimorphism ensures that when the female is ready to spawn, she has a mate immediately available. Multiple males can be incorporated into a single individual female with up to eight males in some species, though some taxa appear to have a \"one male per female\" rule.\n\nSymbiosis is not the only method of reproduction in anglerfish. In fact, many families, including the Melanocetidae, Himantolophidae, Diceratiidae, and Gigantactinidae, show no evidence of male symbiosis. Females in some of these species contain large, developed ovaries and free-living males have large testes, suggesting these sexually mature individuals may spawn during a temporary sexual attachment that does not involve fusion of tissue. Males in these species also have well-toothed jaws that are far more effective in hunting than those seen in symbiotic species.\n\nFinally, sexual symbiosis may be an optional strategy in some species of anglerfishes. In the Oneirodidae, females carrying symbiotic males have been reported in \"Leptacanthichthys\" and \"Bertella\"—and others that were not still developed fully functional gonads. One theory suggests the males attach to females regardless of their own reproductive development if the female is not sexually mature, but when both male and female are mature, they spawn then separate.\n\nOne explanation for the evolution of sexual symbiosis is that the relatively low density of females in deep-sea environments leaves little opportunity for mate choice among anglerfish. Females remain large to accommodate fecundity, as is evidenced by their large ovaries and eggs. Males would be expected to shrink to reduce metabolic costs in resource-poor environments and would develop highly specialized female-finding abilities. If a male manages to find a female, then symbiotic attachment is ultimately more likely to improve lifetime fitness relative to free living, particularly when the prospect of finding future mates is poor. An additional advantage to symbiosis is that the male’s sperm can be used in multiple fertilizations, as he stays always available to the female for mating. Higher densities of male-female encounters might correlate with species that demonstrate facultative symbiosis or simply use a more traditional temporary contact mating.\n\nThe spawn of the anglerfish of the genus \"Lophius\" consists of a thin sheet of transparent gelatinous material wide and greater than long. The eggs in this sheet are in a single layer, each in its own cavity. The spawn is free in the sea. The larvae are free-swimming and have the pelvic fins elongated into filaments. Such an egg sheet is rare among fish.\n\nNorthwest European \"Lophius\" species are listed by the ICES as \"outside safe biological limits\". Additionally, anglerfish are known to occasionally rise to the surface during El Niño, leaving large groups of dead anglerfish floating on the surface.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International added the American angler (\"Lophius americanus\"), the angler (\"Lophius piscatorius\"), and the black-bellied angler (\"Lophius budegassa\") to its seafood red list—a list of fish commonly sold worldwide with a high likelihood of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries.\n\nOne family, the Lophiidae, is of commercial interest with fisheries found in western Europe, eastern North America, Africa, and East Asia. In Europe and North America, the tail meat of fish of the genus \"Lophius\", known as monkfish or goosefish (North America), is widely used in cooking, and is often compared to lobster tail in taste and texture. In Asia, especially Korea and Japan, monkfish liver, known as \"ankimo\", is considered a delicacy.\n\nAnglerfish appear in the fossil record as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24104239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24104239", "title": "Anti-communist mass killings", "text": "Anti-communist mass killings\n\nAnti-communist mass killings are the political mass murders of communists, alleged communists, or their alleged supporters by people, political organizations or governments opposed to communism.\n\nThe Communist movement has faced opposition since it was founded and this opposition has often been organized and violent.\n\nWhite Terror is a term coined during the French revolution in 1795 to denote the counter-revolutionary violence however unorganized it was. Since then, White Terror has been used by both historians and individual groups to mean coordinated counter-revolutionary violence in a broader sense. In the course of history, many White Terror groups have prosecuted, attacked and killed communists, alleged communists and sympathizers as part of their counter-revolutionary and anti-communist agendas.\n\nAs a sociological phenomena, German sociologist Klaus Theweleit grounds his analysis of \"white terror\" in male sexual terror against female sexuality, and the psychological conflation of communism with the sexual woman.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1983, the military dictatorship of Argentina, National Reorganization Process, organized the arrest and execution of between 9,000 and 30,000 civilians suspected of communism or other leftist sympathies during a period of state terror. Children of the victims were sometimes given a new identity and forcibly adopted by childless military families. Held to account in the 2000s, the perpetrators of the killings argued that their actions were a necessary part of a \"war\" against Communism. This campaign was part of a broader anti-communist operation called Operation \"Condor\", which involved the repression and assassination of thousands of left-wing dissidents and alleged communists by the coordinated intelligence services of the Southern Cone countries of Latin America, which was led by Pinochet's Chile and supported by the United States.\n\nThe Shanghai massacre of 12 April 1927 was a violent suppression of Communist Party of China (CPC) organizations in Shanghai by the military forces of Chiang Kai-shek's conservative faction in the Kuomintang (KMT). Following the incident, the latter carried out a full-scale purge of communists in all areas under their control and even more violent suppressions occurred in cities such as Guangzhou and Changsha. The purge led to an open split between the left- and right-wings of the KMT, with Chiang Kai-shek establishing himself as the leader of the right-wing at Nanjing in opposition to the original left-wing KMT government led by Wang Jingwei in Wuhan.\n\nBefore dawn on 12 April, gang members began to attack district offices controlled by the union workers, including Zhabei, Nanshi and Pudong. Under an emergency decree, Chiang ordered the 26th Army to disarm the workers' militias, which resulted in more than 300 people being killed and wounded. The union workers organized a mass meeting to denounce Chiang on 13 April and thousands of workers and students went to the headquarters of the 2nd Division of the 26th Army to protest. Soldiers opened fire, killing 100 and wounding many more. Chiang dissolved the provisional government of Shanghai, labor unions and all other organizations under Communist control and he reorganized a network of unions with allegiance to the Kuomintang under the control of Du Yuesheng. Over 1,000 communists were arrested, some 300 were executed and more than 5,000 went missing. Western news reports later nicknamed General Bai \"The Hewer of Communist Heads\".\n\nSome National Revolutionary Army commanders with communist backgrounds who were graduates of the Whampoa Military Academy kept their sympathies hidden and were not arrested and many of them switched their allegiance to the communists after the start of the Chinese Civil War.\n\nThe twin rival KMT governments, known as the Nanjing–Wuhan split (Chinese: 宁汉分裂), did not last long because the Wuhan Kuomintang also began to violently purge Communists as well after its leader Wang found out about Joseph Stalin's secret order to Mikhail Borodin that the CPC's efforts were to be organized so it could overthrow the left-wing KMT and take over the Wuhan government. More than 10,000 communists in Canton, Xiamen, Fuzhou, Ningbo, Nanjing, Hangzhou and Changsha were arrested and executed within 20 days. The Soviet Union officially terminated its cooperation with the KMT and Wang, fearing retribution as a communist sympathizer, fled to Europe. The Wuhan Nationalist government soon disintegrated, leaving Chiang as the sole legitimate leader of the Kuomintang. In a year, over 300,000 people were killed across China in the suppression campaigns carried out by the KMT.\n\nDuring the civil war between the Kuomintang and the Communists, both factions committed mass violence against civilian populations and even against their own armies, with the aim of obtaining hegemony over China. During the civil war, the Kuomintang anti-Communist faction killed 1,131,000 soldiers before entering combat during its conscription campaigns. In addition, the Kuomintang faction massacred 1 million civilians during the civil war.\n\nBy broadcasting false accusations of communism against the Revolutionary Front for an Independent East Timor leaders and sowing discord in the Timorese Democratic Union coalition, the Indonesian government fostered instability in East Timor and according to observers created a pretext for invading it. During the Indonesian invasion of East Timor and the eventual occupation, the Indonesian military killed and starved around 150,000 citizens of East Timor or about a fifth of its population. Oxford University held an academic consensus calling the occupation the East Timor genocide and Yale University teaches it as part of its Genocide Studies program.\n\nIn 1932, a communist-led insurrection against the government of Maximiliano Hernández Martínez was brutally suppressed, resulting in the death of 30,000 peasants.\n\nThe Salvadoran Civil War (1979–1992) was a conflict between the military-led government of El Salvador and a coalition of five left-wing guerrilla organizations that was known collectively as the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN). A coup on 15 October 1979 led to the killings of anti-coup protesters by the government as well as anti-disorder protesters by the guerrillas and it is widely seen as the tipping point toward civil war.\n\nBy January 1980, the left-wing political organizations united to form the Coordinated Revolutionaries of the Masses (CRM). A few months later, the left-wing armed groups united to form the Unified Revolutionary Directorate (DRU). It was renamed the FMLN following its merger with the Communist Party in October 1980.\n\nThe full-fledged civil war lasted for more than 12 years and saw extreme violence from both sides. It also included the deliberate terrorizing and targeting of civilians by death squads, the recruitment of child soldiers and other violations of human rights, mostly by the military. An unknown number of people \"disappeared\" during the conflict and the United Nations reports that more than 75,000 were killed. The United States contributed to the conflict by providing large amounts of military aid to the government of El Salvador during the Carter and Reagan administrations.\n\nGerman communists, socialists and trade unionists were among the earliest domestic opponents of Nazism and they were also among the first to be sent to concentration camps. Adolf Hitler claimed that communism was a Jewish ideology which the Nazis termed \"Judeo-Bolshevism\". Fear of communist agitation was used to justify the Enabling Act of 1933, the law which gave Hitler plenary powers. Hermann Göring later testified at the Nuremberg Trials that the Nazis' willingness to repress German communists prompted President Paul von Hindenburg and the German elite to cooperate with the Nazis. The first concentration camp was built at Dachau in March 1933 to imprison German communists, socialists, trade unionists and others opposed to the Nazis. Communists, social democrats and other political prisoners were forced to wear a red triangle.\n\nIn 1936, Germany concluded an international agreement with Japan to fight Comintern. After the German assault on communist Russia in 1941, the Anti-Comintern Pact was renewed, now with many new signatories from the occupied states across Europe and also Turkey and El Salvador. Thousands of communists from the German occupied territory were arrested and subsequently deported to German death camps. Whenever the Nazis conquered a new territory, members of communist, socialist and anarchist groups were normally the first persons to be detained or executed right away. On the Eastern Front, evidence of this practise is found in Hitler's infamous Commissar Order in which he ordered the summary execution of all political commissars captured among Soviet soldiers as well as the execution of all Communist Party members in German held territory. The Einsatzgruppen carried out these executions in the east.\n\nMassacres, forced disappearances, torture and summary executions of guerrillas and especially civilian collaborators of the communist Guerrilla Army of the Poor at the hands of United States-backed security forces had been widespread since 1965. It was a longstanding policy of the military regime and known by United States officials. A report from 1984 discussed \"the murder of thousands by a military government that maintains its authority by terror\". Human Rights Watch described extraordinarily cruel actions by the armed forces, mostly against unarmed civilians.\n\nThe repression reached genocidal levels in the predominantly indigenous northern provinces where guerrillas of the Guerrilla Army of the Poor operated. There, the Guatemalan military viewed the Maya, traditionally seen as subhumans, as being supportive of the guerillas and began a campaign of wholesale killings and disappearances of Mayan peasants. While massacres of Indigenous peasants had occurred earlier in the war, the systematic use of terror against the Indigenous population began around 1975 and peaked during the first half of the 1980s. An estimated 200,000 Guatemalan civilians were killed during the Guatemalan Civil War – 93% by government forces – including at least 40,000 persons who \"disappeared\". Of the 42,275 individual cases of killing and \"disappearances\" documented by the CEH, 83% of the victims were Maya and 17% Ladino meaning that by applying these proportions to the estimated 200,000 civilians killed and disappeared in the Guatemalan Civil War overall it can be inferred that up to 166,000 Maya and 34,000 Ladino were killed or disappeared in the genocide.\n\nA violent anti-Communist purge took place shortly after an abortive coup in the capital of Indonesia, Jakarta, which was blamed on the Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI). Conventional estimates of the number of people killed by the Indonesian security forces are between 500,000 and 1,000,000. The bloody purge constitutes one of the worst, yet least known, mass murders since the Second World War.\n\nThe killings started in October 1965 in Jakarta, spread to Central and East Java and later to Bali and smaller outbreaks occurred on parts of other islands, most notably Sumatra. As the Sukarno presidency began to unravel and Suharto began to assert control following the coup attempt, the PKI's upper national leaders were hunted down and arrested and some of them were summarily executed and the Indonesian Air Force in particular was a target of the purge. The party chairman Dipa Nusantara Aidit had flown to Central Java in early October, where the coup attempt had been supported by leftist officers in Yogyakarta, Salatiga and Semarang. Fellow senior party leader Njoto was shot around 6 November, Aidit on 22 November and First Deputy PKI Chairman M.H. Lukman was killed shortly after.\n\nIn 2016, an international tribunal in The Hague ruled that the killings constitute crimes against humanity and it also ruled that the United States and other Western governments were complicit in the crimes. Declassified documents published in 2017 confirm that not only did the United States government have detailed knowledge of the massacres as they happened, it was also deeply involved in the campaign of mass killings. Historian John Roosa contends the documents show \"the U.S. was part and parcel of the operation, strategizing with the Indonesian army and encouraging them to go after the PKI.\" According to University of Connecticut historian Bradley R. Simpson, the documents \"contain damning details that the US was willfully and gleefully pushing for the mass murder of innocent people\". UCLA historian Geoffrey B. Robinson argues that without the backing of the US and other powerful Western states, the Indonesian Army's program of mass killings would not have occurred.\n\nDuring the Korean War, tens of thousands of suspected communists and communist sympathizers were killed in what came to be known as the Bodo League massacre. Estimates of the death toll vary. According to Prof. Kim Dong-Choon, Commissioner of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, at least 100,000 people were executed on suspicion of supporting communism. In the southeastern city of Ulsan, hundreds of people were massacred by the police of South Korea during the early months of the war, between 1950 and 1953; 407 civilians were executed without trial in July and August 1950 alone. On 24 January 2008, President Roh Moo-hyun apologized for the mass killings.\n\nIn Spain, the White Terror (or the \"Francoist Repression\") refers to the atrocities committed by the Nationalists during the Spanish Civil War as well as the atrocities that were committed afterwards during Francisco Franco's dictatorship.\n\nMost historians agree that the death toll of the White Terror was higher than that of the Red Terror. While most estimates of Red Terror deaths range from 38,000 to 55,000, most estimates of White Terror deaths range from 150,000 to 400,000.\n\nConcrete figures do not exist because many communists and socialists fled Spain after losing the Civil War. Furthermore, the Francoist government destroyed thousands of documents related to the White Terror and tried to hide evidence which revealed its executions of the Republicans. Thousands of victims of the White Terror are buried in hundreds of unmarked common graves, more than 600 in Andalusia alone. The largest common grave is that at San Rafael cemetery on the outskirts of Malaga (with perhaps more than 4,000 bodies). The Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory (\"Asociación para la Recuperación de la Memoria Historica\" or ARMH) says that the number of disappeared is over 35,000.\n\nAccording to the Platform for Victims of Disappearances Enforced by Francoism, 140,000 people were missing, including victims of the Spanish Civil War and the subsequent Franco dictatorship. It has come to mention that Spain is the second country in the world in number of disappeared whose remains have not been recovered nor identified after Cambodia.\n\nTens of thousands of people, labeled as communist sympathizers and spies, were killed by the government of Chiang Kai-shek during the White Terror () in Taiwan, a violent suppression of political dissidents following the 28 February Incident in 1947. Protests erupted on 27 February following an altercation between a group of Tobacco Monopoly Bureau agents and a Taipei resident, with protestors calling for democratic reforms and an end to corruption. The Kuomintang regime responded by using violence to suppress the popular uprising. Over the next several days, the government-led crackdown killed several thousand people, with estimates generally setting the death toll somewhere between 10,000 and 30,000 or even more. From 1947 to 1987, around 140,000 Taiwanese were imprisoned, about 3,000 to 4,000 of whom were executed for their alleged opposition to the Kuomintang regime.\n\nThe Thai military government and its Communist Suppression Operations Command (CSOC), helped by the Royal Thai Army, the Royal Thai Police and paramilitary vigilantes, reacted with drastic measures to the insurgency of the Communist Party of Thailand during the 1960s and 1970s. The anti-communist operations peaked between 1971 and 1973 during the rule of Field Marshal Thanom Kittikachorn and General Praphas Charusathien. According to official figures, 3,008 suspected communists were killed throughout the country. Alternative estimates are much higher. These civilians were usually killed without any judicial proceedings.\n\nA prominent example was the so-called \"Red Drum\" or \"Red Barrel\" killings of Lam Sai, Phatthalung Province, Southern Thailand, where more than 200 civilians (informal accounts speak of up to 3,000) who were accused of helping the communists were burned in red 200-litre oil drums, sometimes after having been killed to dispose of their bodies and sometimes burned alive. The incident was never thoroughly investigated and none of the perpetrators was brought to justice.\n\nAfter three years of civilian rule following the October 1973 popular uprising, at least 46 leftist students and activists who had gathered on and around Bangkok's Thammasat University campus were massacred by police and right-wing paramilitaries on 6 October 1976. They had been accused of supporting communism. The mass killing followed a campaign of violently anti-communist propaganda by right-wing politicians, media and clerics, exemplified by the Buddhist monk Phra Kittiwuttho's claim that killing communists was not sinful.\n\n"}
{"id": "19425463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19425463", "title": "Bulgarian Declaration of Independence", "text": "Bulgarian Declaration of Independence\n\nThe \"de jure\" independence of Bulgaria (, \"Nezavisimost na Balgaria\") from the Ottoman Empire was proclaimed on in the old capital of Tarnovo by Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria, who afterwards took the title \"Tsar\".\n\nBulgaria had been a widely autonomous principality since , when it was liberated from Ottoman rule in the wake of the Russo-Turkish War (1877–78). Although it was still technically under the suzerainty of the Sublime Porte, this was a legal fiction that Bulgaria only acknowledged in a formal way. It acted largely as a \"de facto\" independent state. On , it had unified with the Bulgarian-majority Ottoman autonomous province of Eastern Rumelia. \n\nAfter the liberation, Bulgaria's main external goal was the unification of all Bulgarian-inhabited areas under foreign rule into a single Bulgarian state: the main targets of Bulgarian irredentism were Macedonia and southern Thrace, which continued to be part of the Ottoman realm. In order to join an anti-Ottoman alliance and claim those territories by war, however, Bulgaria had to proclaim its independence first. This would constitute a violation of the Treaty of Berlin's terms, an act unlikely to be approved by the Great Powers.\n\nThe chaos that ensued in the Ottoman Empire following the Young Turk Revolution of 1908 provided suitable conditions for the Bulgarian proclamation of independence. Many of the Great Powers had also abandoned their support for the Ottomans, looking for territorial gains instead: Austria-Hungary was hoping to annex the Bosnia Vilayet, the United Kingdom was looking to seize the empire's Arab territories in the east, and the Russian Empire's main target was control over the Turkish Straits. In September 1908 at a meeting in Buchlov (, contemporary Czech Republic), envoys of Austria-Hungary and Russia supported each other's plans and agreed not to hinder Bulgaria's proclamation of independence which was likely to take place.\n\nTowards the middle of September, the democratic government of Aleksandar Malinov had decided that the suitable moment was near. , Ferdinand arrived at Rousse from a break in his Hungarian mansion. He was awaited there by the government to discuss the final decision on board the \"Krum\" ship. The delegation then took the train to Tarnovo, where the official proclamation would take place. According to recent research, it was at the Dve Mogili railway station that the manifesto of independence was completed on .\n\nThe independence of Bulgaria was formally proclaimed at the Holy Forty Martyrs Church in Tarnovo. As part of the proclamation, Ferdinand raised Bulgaria from a principality to a kingdom, increasing its international prestige. Ferdinand changed his title from knyaz (prince) to tsar (king), and the country would be ready to join the Balkan League and fight the Ottoman Empire in the First Balkan War of 1912–1913.\n\nBulgaria's declaration of independence was followed by Austria-Hungary's annexation of Bosnia the following day and Greece's union with the Cretan State (unrecognized until 1913). With the two countries' joint violation of the Treaty of Berlin and the dominant support among European countries, the independence of Bulgaria was internationally recognized by the spring of 1909. The Ottoman Empire did not demand any financial compensation from Bulgaria, which took over the railways run by the Oriental Railway Company and the taxes in Eastern Rumelia. Russia cancelled forty years of payments the Ottomans owed on the indemnity for the war of 1877–78. This amounted to 125,000,000 francs (out of a total indemnity of 802,000,000 francs). In turn Bulgaria agreed to transfer its tribute payments—85,000,000 francs over 85 years—to Russia.\n\nThe \"de jure\" independence is celebrated annually on 22 September as Bulgaria's Independence Day. On 22 September 2008, Bulgaria celebrated the centenary of its independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "8100013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8100013", "title": "Codex (TV series)", "text": "Codex (TV series)\n\nCodex was a game show that aired on Channel 4 from 12 November 2006 to 15 December 2007 and was hosted by Tony Robinson.\n\nIn the first series, a single team of five explorers solve a series of games in order to win letters that may help them solve a 'codex', an encoded cryptic clue, at the end of the programme.\n\nBefore each round, Tony shows the team one or more historical artefacts and gives some background to the objects. The team is then asked to answer seven questions relating to the artefacts in three minutes. If they succeed then two of the symbols of the codex are replaced with the two letters they represent; this is shown to the viewers but not to the team until later in the programme.\n\nBetween each round (except after round two) there is a head-to-head challenge where the team is posed a question with a numerical answer. They are each given a numeric keypad, and the person who is furthest from the correct answer is eliminated.\n\nAt the end of the show the four people eliminated in the head-to-heads work together to try and decode the codex using the revealed letters. They have three minutes in which to do this, and when they have finished they should have revealed a cryptic clue.\n\nThe surviving team member then enters the museum's Reading Room where they are presented with five more artefacts. They must solve the cryptic clue (or whatever the others managed to decipher) to identify what they think is the correct item. They have one minute in which to make their choice. They then take the small box located next to the item back outside. Inside this box is a glass cube revealing whether or not they have won.\n\nThe Codex clue describes which of the five artefacts is correct as well as which ones to avoid. Sometimes the clue can be cryptic - for example, in one programme the term \"I'm buttercup\" referred to a vessel (cup) in the form of a male sheep (ram being an animal that's a 'butter' - i.e. butts things). Similar cryptic crossword-style tricks are meant to lead the solvers astray - e.g. is the word \"lead\" meant to be pronounced as in the metal or a dog lead?\n\nThe second series, which began airing on 10 November 2007, employs a new format. Two teams of three answer questions for ten points (with some bonus questions and challenges being worth more), the teams remain in one location with only two rounds where one member each goes off to an artefact, there is no codex to solve at the end, and the questions no longer relate to a common period in history. Victory is decided on points alone. The prize is £3,000 and a trophy. The format for each round is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42747203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42747203", "title": "Common Reporting Standard", "text": "Common Reporting Standard\n\nThe Common Reporting Standard (CRS) is an information standard for the Automatic Exchange Of Information (AEOI) regarding bank accounts on a global level, between tax authorities, which the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) developed in 2014.\n\nIts purpose is to combat tax evasion. The idea was based on the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) implementation agreements and its legal basis is the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. 97 countries had signed an agreement to implement it, with more countries intending to sign later. First reporting occurred in 2017, with many of the rest starting in 2018.\n\nUntil 2014, the parties to most treaties for sharing assets, incomes and tax information internationally had shared it \"upon request\", which was not effective in preventing tax evasion.\n\nIn May 2014, forty-seven countries tentatively agreed on a \"common reporting standard\", formally referred to as the \"Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information\": an agreement to share information on residents' assets and incomes automatically in conformation with the standard. Endorsing countries included all 34 OECD countries, as well as Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and South Africa.\n\nIn September 2014, the G-20 major economies, at their meeting in Cairns, Australia, issued a G20 Common Reporting Standard implementation plan.\n\nThe new system was intended to transfer all relevant information automatically and systematically. The agreement has informally been referred to as GATCA (the global version of FATCA)\", but \"CRS is not just an extension of FATCA\".\n\n, 51 countries had signed up to the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (MCAA), to automatically exchange information based on Article 6 of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters The agreement specifies the details of what information will be exchanged and when, as set out in the Standard.\n\n, 53 jurisdictions had signed the agreement to automatically exchange information; 83 jurisdictions had signed the agreement.\n\nAll European Union (EU) countries, China, India, Hong Kong, Russia and 109 countries altogether have agreed to become signatories. Yet many countries will not participate in the automatic information exchange. Many of those that have not signed are small countries. In April 2016, shortly after the release of the Panama papers, Panama agreed to comply with the standard. In Jan 2018, Panama has signed the MCAA at the OECD headquarters in Paris and become the 98th jurisdiction joining CRS MCAA. The US position is unusual. It has not signed this specific treaty. The U.S. receives information relating to US citizens' accounts from many countries due to the compliance requirements of the FATCA act. The United States, in many cases, will reciprocate by sharing banking data with countries for accounts which their citizens hold in the U.S.\n\nThe information and its exchange format are governed by a detailed standard, whose details are listed in a 44 page long document.\n\nEach participating country will annually automatically exchange with the other country the below information in the case of Jurisdiction A with respect to each Jurisdiction B reportable account, and in the case of Jurisdiction B with respect to each Jurisdiction A reportable account:\n\nOECD allows the participating countries to determine what accounts are reportable. \"The term \"reportable account\" means a [Jurisdiction A] reportable account or a [Jurisdiction B] reportable account, depending on the context, provided it has been identified as such pursuant to due diligence procedures, consistent with the Annex, in place in [Jurisdiction A] or [Jurisdiction B].\"\n\nThis means that either jurisdiction may negotiate and determine its own reportable accounts in its agreement. For example, the United States, with its citizenship-based taxation, has established in its FATCA Intergovernmental Agreements that, accounts held by US citizens and US Persons for Tax purposes in the other country's jurisdiction need to be reported via FATCA.\n\nThe European Union adopted the CRS on 1 January 2016 after amending the part on administrative cooperation re taxation. First reporting was planned for September 2017.\n\nAs of June 2017, the following countries committed to start reporting in 2017: Anguilla, Argentina, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Bulgaria, Cayman Islands, Colombia, Croatia, Curaçao, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Germany, Gibraltar, Greece, Greenland, Guernsey, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Jersey, Korea, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Montserrat, Netherlands, Niue, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, San Marino, Seychelles, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, United Kingdom\nStarting to report in 2018: Albania, Andorra, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Belize, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Chile, China, Cook Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Ghana, Grenada, Hong Kong (China), Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Marshall Islands, Macao (China), Malaysia, Mauritius, Monaco, Nauru, New Zealand, Pakistan, Panama, Qatar, Russia, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Samoa, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sint Maarten, Turkey, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Vanuatu\n\nOf the 154 countries which have signed on the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, the following countries have not yet signed on to the CRS:\n\n(Incomplete list as of June 2017) Armenia, Azerbaijan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Gabon, Georgia, Guatemala, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Kingdom of Lesotho, Liberia, Maldives, Mauritania, Moldova, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Republic of Macedonia, Senegal, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukraine, United States.\n\nIn 2016, a legal expert complained that \"The CRS has a much more ambitious scope, however, and modelling the standard on the FATCA rules has created problems for implementing it in Europe\". And a \"private sector advocacy group representing financial services and law firms\" went even further seeing a \"showdown\" between the two regimes.\n\nTransparency groups have reacted in various ways, some of them criticising how developing countries were (not) considered and involved. Collecting and providing information can be so costly and difficult for developing countries obviating participation in the scheme. Instead of offering a period of non-reciprocity, where developing countries could simply receive financial data, the only mention of non-reciprocity agreements is catering to tax havens.\n\nWhile tax havens will have to provide some information, they can use a number of loopholes (unequal standards for how information is shared e.g.) and also elect not to receive any info in return. The Financial Transparency Coalition criticised the access cost of $73 to download OECD’s report itself, being \"a perfect illustration of why this process needs to include low income countries from the start\".\n\nThe OECD reviews investment mechanisms worldwide to identify risks in compliance and loopholes. It opened a website for whistle-blowers to anonymously report CRS violations including for pensions, insurance, and citizenship-for-sale tools. The OECD has investigated and labeled specifically as \"low-risk\" an investment tool in Hong Kong called ORS (Occupational Retirement Scheme) which is classified as a \"non-reporting financial institutions\" and can be used to bypass CRS as it does not need reporting under CRS guidelines and can be used to effectively be like a shell company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3410264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410264", "title": "Comparison and contrast of classification schemes in linguistics and metadata", "text": "Comparison and contrast of classification schemes in linguistics and metadata\n\nA classification scheme is the product of arranging things into kinds of things (classes) or into \"groups\" of classes.\n\nIn the abstract, the resulting structures are a crucial aspect of metadata, often represented as a hierarchical structure and accompanied by descriptive information of the classes or groups. Such a classification scheme is intended to be used for an arrangement or division of individual objects into the classes or groups, and the classes or groups are based on characteristics which the objects (members) have in common.\n\nIn linguistics, subordinate concepts are described as hyponyms of their respective superordinates; typically, a hyponym is 'a kind of' its superordinate.\n\nThe ISO/IEC 11179 metadata registry standard uses classification schemes as a way to classify administered items, such as data elements, in a metadata registry.\n\nSome quality criteria for classification schemes are:\n\nUsing one or more classification schemes for the classification of a collection of objects has many benefits. Some of these include:\n\nThe following are examples of different kinds of classification schemes. This list is in approximate order from informal to more formal:\n\nOne example of a classification scheme for data elements is a representation term.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12967141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12967141", "title": "Comparison of VMware Fusion and Parallels Desktop", "text": "Comparison of VMware Fusion and Parallels Desktop\n\nRepresented by their respective products, VMware and Parallels, Inc. are the two commercial competitors in the Mac consumer platform virtualization market. Both products are based on hypervisor technology and allow users to run an additional 32- or 64-bit x86 operating system in a virtual machine alongside Mac OS X on an Intel-powered Mac. The similarity in features and functionality between VMware Fusion and Parallels Desktop for Mac has given occasion for much comparison.\n\nOn August 16, 2007, CNET published the results of several benchmarks in which Fusion demonstrated better performance than Parallels Desktop for Mac in SMP-aware applications, which Fusion supports while Parallels does not. It should also be noted that Boot Camp is a tool for natively booting Windows XP on Intel Macintosh and is not a virtualization product. This comparison is of limited value today, as Parallels Desktop has had 4 major upgrades and VMware Fusion has had 3.\n\nThis comparison was tested on an eight-core, 2.66 GHz MacPro running Mac OS X 10.4.10, Parallels Desktop 3.0 for Mac (build 4560) and VMware Fusion 1.0 (build 51348). Fusion and Parallels were both set to 1,024 MB of system memory and a 32 GB hard disk. Fusion was set to 128 MB of graphics memory, and Parallels Desktop for Mac was set to 64 MB of graphics memory (the maximum for each at that time).\n\nIn Volume 24, Issue 02 of MacTech, the editors published the results of one-step and task tests between VMware Fusion 1.0, Parallels Desktop 3.0 and Boot Camp and used a PC running Windows XP as a baseline comparison in a native PC environment.\n\nMacTech found that the faster the physical host computer, the more similarly Parallels Desktop and VMware Fusion performed. MacTech did not test multiple processor performance. The following graphs displays the results in seconds. Shorter bars indicate faster performance.\n\nEach test was run on a MacBook (2 GB RAM; 1.83 GHz Core Duo processor), a MacBook Pro (4 GB RAM; 2.16 GHz Core 2 Duo processor) and a Mac Pro (4 GB RAM; Quad Core configuration with two 2.66 GHz Dual-Core Intel Xeon processors). MacTech tested Parallels Desktop 3.0 for Mac Build 5160 and VMware Fusion 1.0 Build 51348.\nAll tests were done on clean host systems with new installations of Mac OS X 10.4.10 and Office installations and included all of the most up-to-date patches. No third party software was installed other than Mac OS X, VMware Fusion, Parallels Desktop, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Adobe Reader and Microsoft Office.\n\nIn March, 2009, Volume 25, Issue 04, MacTech published the results of a new series of benchmark tests that compared the performance between VMware Fusion 2.0.1 and Parallels Desktop 4.0 for Mac (build 3540), both running Mac OS X 10.5.5.\n\nIn most of MacTech’s tests, Parallels Desktop performed 14-20% faster than Fusion; however, Fusion ran 10% faster than Parallels Desktop when running Windows XP 32-bit on 2 virtual processors.\nThe tests were performed on the White MacBook, MacBook Pro, iMac and MacPro. Both Fusion and Parallels Desktop were optimized for virtual machine performance. MacTech’s test included launch and CPU tests, File and Network IO, Footprint, Application Launch, Application Performance and 3D and HD Graphics. In many cases, tests were performed after both Adam and Successful launches and were timed using a stopwatch.\n\nMacTech’s cross platform tests timed how long it took users to perform multi-step tasks that moved data between Mac OS X and Windows. VMware Fusion, which is designed for increased isolation from the host, requires more manual steps to move data between the host and the virtual environment. Parallels Desktop, which is designed to run transparently with the Mac OS X host, requires fewer steps to perform the same tasks. Therefore, Parallels Desktop was faster.\n\nParallels Desktop occasionally displayed lag anomalies while VMware Fusion's virtual drive performance was very close to that of a physical drive. VMware Fusion preferred a bridged connection for reliable performance, and Parallels Desktop was consistent regardless of the type of virtual network adaptor used.\n\nParallel Desktop 5 always uses wired memory for hosted OS, while VMWare Fusion 3.0 uses active memory that can be swapped. Giving better performance to hosted VM, this leaves less memory to host OS programs and causes more swapping if you use VM and host OS programs at the same time.\n\nIn 2010 MacTech, Volume 26, Issue 01, published the results of a new series of benchmark tests showing a performance advantage for Parallels Desktop 5 across all subcategories, with an average of 30% faster.\n\nITPro's November 2010 performance testing results were mixed, with Parallels being slightly faster, overall.\n\nIn 2015 TekRevue, published the results of an extensive series of benchmark tests showing a performance advantage for VMware Fusion 8, across most subcategories, and in particular the 3D ones.\n\nQuoting: \"If you look at our Parallels vs. Fusion benchmark results simply by the numbers, then Fusion 8 is the clear winner, taking 11 out of 18 tests and pushing on three more. ... Some users are looking for a virtualization app to play Windows-only games, or crunch data in a Windows-only CPU-intensive app. Those folks should probably go with Fusion 8 this year.\"\n\nARS Technica reviewed both Fusion and Parallels updates in August 2016.\n\nVMware Fusion Pro says it supports DirectX 10 on its website while listing system requirements...\n\n\"For DirectX 10 or OpenGL 3.3 support in a virtual machine:\n\nHost OS:\nmacOS 10.10 or greater\n\nHardware:\nIntel: HD4000 or newer Nvidia: 650M or newer AMD: HD 5770 or newer\"\n\n\nParallels Desktop vs VMware Fusion - IT Central Station"}
{"id": "34779981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34779981", "title": "Consumers' Checkbook", "text": "Consumers' Checkbook\n\nConsumers' Checkbook/Center for the Study of Services (stylized as \"Consumers’ CHECKBOOK\") is an independent, nonprofit consumer organization. It was founded in 1974. in order to provide survey information to consumers about vendors and service providers. There are both print and online versions in the Boston, Chicago, Delaware Valley, Puget Sound, San Francisco/Oakland/San Jose, Twin Cities, and Washington, D.C., areas. \n\n\"Consumers' Checkbook\" and Center for the Study of Services were founded by company President Robert Krughoff after he had a bad auto repair experience. In response he founded the publication as a not-for-profit venue for rating professionals in fields including mechanics and plumbers. Over time the publication came to also review other professions and services, like physicians. As a part of the intention to provide unbiased information the publication does not carry advertising, but does charge a subscription fee.\n\nThe first issue of \"Consumers' Checkbook\" came out in 1974.\nThe ratings are based on items including surveys of consumers, reports from undercover shoppers, expert surveys, the number of consumer agency complaints against a company or service provider, and an analysis of publicly available databases. The first publication only covered the Washington DC area. In 1982, its first magazine for another city began, focusing on the San Francisco Bay Area. In 2003 the company expanded to include publications for Seattle-Tacoma, the Twin Cities, Chicago, the Delaware Valley, and Boston.\n\n\"Consumers' Checkbook\" publishes an annual Guide to Health Plans for Federal Employees, a health insurance plan cost and quality comparison resource, first publishing the work in 1979. The book is published in paper form, and in 2000 its contents were moved online to GuideToHealthPlans.org. Between 1985 and 2004 the company published Bargains, a publication that focused on price comparisons between retailers in both Washington DC and San Francisco. Between 1988 and 1998, they also published DC and San Francisco versions of a \"Checkbook Guide to Area Restaurants\". In 1994 they began publishing the \"Consumer’s Guide to Health Plans\". The company also publishes the \"Consumers’ Guide to Top Doctors\", providing a list of recommended specialists in the 53 largest metro areas of the U.S. as well as the \"Consumers' Guide to Hospitals\", providing ratings for about 4,500 U.S. acute-care hospitals, which it first published in 1988. The Guide to Top Doctors was first published in 1999. \n\nThe company also runs the website SurgeonRatings.org. Between 2007 and 2009, the company published “a demonstration project surveying patients about their experience of care with their doctors using the Clinician/Group CAHPS Survey instrument developed by the US Agency for Health Care Research and Quality,” according to Robert Mayer. \"Checkbook\" founded Patient Central in 2009, which ranks doctors in Denver-Boulder, Memphis, Kansas City, and New York (Manhattan). It also releases industry specific and city specific surveys of price differences, such as the differences between grocery stores. \"Checkbook\" also created the MNsure price comparison site.\n\nIn 2006, under the Freedom of Information Act, \"Consumers' Checkbook\" sued the United States Department of Health and Human Services for records of claims filed by physicians under Medicare. \"Checkbook\" intended to use these claims to report the volume of experience each doctor had with various high-risk procedures. HHS held the belief that the release of such data enabled the user to identify individual physicians, and therefore was prohibited from doing so. \"Checkbook\" won the case in the Federal District Court, but the ruling was reversed in the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court declined to take the case. \"Checkbook\" has continued to push for the release of Medicare data since losing the case.\n\nSince 1990, \"Consumers' Checkbook\" has also operated the car-buying and -leasing services, CarBargains and LeaseWise. The service pursues bids on the selected car model from five local dealers, asking them to compete against one another. That same year \"Checkbook\" began publishing the biannual publications CarDeals, a newsletter comparing car prices and financing options.\n\n\"Checkbook\" has won the National Press Club's First Place Award for Excellence in Consumer Journalism, and in 2000 was honored, with the Esther Peterson Consumer Service Award. The company has also received first place in the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Plan Choice Challenge.\n"}
{"id": "5217735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5217735", "title": "Cromwell Gardens", "text": "Cromwell Gardens\n\nCromwell Gardens is a short but major road in South Kensington, within the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, London, England. It joins the Cromwell Road at the junction with Exhibition Road to the west with the Brompton Road to the east.\n\nTo the north, the main facade and entrance of the Victoria and Albert Museum is a dominant feature. To the south, on the corner with Exhibition Road, is the Ismaili Centre, a religious, social, and cultural meeting place for the UK Ismaili community. To the north at the junction with Brompton Road is the Brompton Oratory.\n\nThe road forms part of the major A4 trunk road into central London. Immediately to the south is the Yalta Memorial Garden, Thurloe Place and Thurloe Square.\n\nThe nearest tube station is South Kensington.\n\n"}
{"id": "42037350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42037350", "title": "Del Monte Fresh Produce Co. v. Dole Food Co.", "text": "Del Monte Fresh Produce Co. v. Dole Food Co.\n\nDel Monte Fresh Produce Co. v. Dole Food Co., 136 F. Supp. 2d. 1271 (S.D. Fla. 2001) was a trade secret misappropriation case where Del Monte Fresh Produce Company asserted that Dole Food Company obtained their specialty pineapples through non-legal means and were unjustly enriched as a result.\n\nThrough the expenditure of time, money, research, and other resources, Del Monte developed a special pineapple variety called MD-2 that was sweeter and contained more vitamin C, fiber, color, and a milder texture than competing pineapples. Del Monte marketed these pineapples under the name \"Del Monte Gold Extra Sweet.\" Dole obtained the MD-2 pineapple through non-legal means via a farmer in Costa Rica who had been hired by Del Monte to grow the pineapple. Dole then began selling the same variety under the moniker \"Dole Premium Select.\" The main question presented to the court was whether or not a pineapple could be a protectable trade secret.\n\nThe court discussed Del Monte's failure to precisely define what about the pineapple was misappropriated. The court stated that one cannot necessarily protect a pineapple as a thing, but one can protect something about the pineapple whether it be genetic makeup, growing techniques, etc. Court ultimately held, however, that a pineapple's genetic information could be a protectable trade secret and that there was misappropriation.\n"}
{"id": "4750416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4750416", "title": "EEMBC", "text": "EEMBC\n\nEEMBC, the Embedded Microprocessor Benchmark Consortium, is a non-profit, member-funded organization formed in 1997, focused on the creation of standard benchmarks for the hardware and software used in embedded systems. The goal of its members is to make EEMBC benchmarks an industry standard for evaluating the capabilities of embedded processors, compilers, and the associated embedded system implementations, according to objective, clearly defined, application-based criteria. EEMBC members may contribute to the development of benchmarks, vote at various stages before public distribution, and accelerate testing of their platforms through early access to benchmarks and associated specifications. \n\nIn chronological order of development:\n\nAutoBench 1.1 - single-threaded code for automotive, industrial, and general-purpose applications\n\nNetworking - single-threaded code associated with moving packets in networking applications.\n\nMultiBench - multi-threaded code for testing scalability of multicore processors.\n\nCoreMark - measures the performance of central processing units (CPU) used in embedded systems\n\nBXBench - system benchmark measuring the web browsing user-experience, from the click/touch on a URL to final page rendered on the screen, and is not limited to measuring only JavaScript execution.\n\nAndEBench-Pro - system benchmark providing a standardized, industry-accepted method of evaluating Android platform performance. It's available for free download in Google Play.\n\nFPMark - multi-threaded code for both single- and double-precision floating-point workloads, as well as small, medium, and large data sets.\n\nULPMark - energy-measuring benchmark for ultra-low power microcontrollers; benchmarks include ULPMark-Core (with a focus on microcontroller core activity and sleep modes) and ULPMark-Peripheral (with a focus on microcontroller peripheral activity such as Analog-to-digital converter, Serial Peripheral Interface Bus, Real-time clock, and Pulse-width modulation)\n\nIoTConnect - system-level benchmark measuring performance and energy associated with connecting Internet of Things devices; the first phase, called IoTMark-BLE, focuses on Bluetooth\n\nADASMark - focusing on compute intensive application flows which are common to embedded heterogeneous computing architectures; the first phase includes real-world workloads from automotive surround view.\n\nSecureMark - Measures performance, energy, and memory impact allowing application developers to analyze IoT device security implementations\n\nOriginally founded as the EDN Embedded Microprocessor Benchmark Consortium, EEBMC separated from EDN Magazine in 2012, but retained the double \"E\" in the name.\n\nEEMBC divides its members followingly:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3499610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3499610", "title": "FEMA Photo Library", "text": "FEMA Photo Library\n\nThe FEMA Photo Library is an online gallery of photos compiled by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) of the United States, containing more than 37,000 disaster related photographs taken since 1980. The majority of the collection is of declared disasters and there are also photographs from significant public events that have occurred on or near the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Since August 30, 2005, 6,098 images have been added to the collection; Hurricane Katrina has the most photographs in the collection with around 3,000 images.\n\nThe photographs are of hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, typhoons, fires, avalanches, ice storms, blizzards, terrorist attacks, earthquakes, and the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster. \n\nThe subjects of the photographs in the collection:\n\nThese photographs are in the public domain and are not copyrighted, and the collection is added to during declared disasters when multiple additions occur daily.\n\n"}
{"id": "25388142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388142", "title": "Gambero Rosso", "text": "Gambero Rosso\n\nGambero Rosso is an Italian food and wine magazine and publishing group founded in 1986. Its name literally translates as \"red prawn\" and comes from a tavern in \"Pinocchio\" where the Fox and the Cat dine.\n\n\"Gambero Rosso\" was initially an eight-page supplement of \"il manifesto\", first published on 16 December 1986, and was founded by . It contributed early to spreading the views of \"ARCI Gola\", which was a forerunner to the Slow Food movement.\n\nFrom 1987, Gambero Rosso has published a guide to Italian wine, titled \"Vini d’Italia\", which in a short time became the most influential within Italy. It is also published in English translation under the title \"Italian Wines\". From the 2010 edition, the guide is published without the participation of the Slow Food movement, following controversy over the removal of founder Stefano Bonilli from his position.\n\nFrom 1990, a guide to Italian restaurants was published.\n\nIn 1992, \"Gambero Rosso\" was issued by Gruppo Espresso as a monthly magazine.\n\nIn 1999, a TV channel, \"Gambero Rosso Channel\", was started in cooperation with Rai Sat. From July 2009 Gambero Rosso Channel is broadcast by Sky Italia, channel 411. \n\nIn 2002, \"Gambero Rosso\"'s \"Città del gusto\" (City of taste) was opened in Rome, featuring TV studios, cooking school, wine bar and professional and educational activities on 10,000 square meters. In Italy there are 4 different 'Città del gusto' in: Rome, Naples, Catania and Palermo. From 2009 Paolo Cuccia became the Chairman of Gambero Rosso Holding Spa.\n\nFrom 2012 \"Gambero Rosso\" publishes digital versions of its guides: Vini d'Italia and Ristoranti d'Italia. Apps are available for: Apple iPhone, Samsung Apps, Google Play, Amazon Appstore and Windows 8.\n\nThe Gambero Rosso wine ratings in \"Vini d’Italia\" are built up on the number of glasses (\"bicchieri\") awarded to a wine, which is indicated in the wine guide with a number of stylized glasses next to the wine's name. The highest rating is three glasses (\"Tre Bicchieri\"), and the wine guide only includes wines which are seen by the editors as \"above average\". The ratings are based upon blind tasting by independent experts. The guide is edited in Italian, English and German language.\n\n\nThe guide 'Ristoranti d'Italia' (23rd edition in 2013) describes the best Italian restaurants. For each place it attributes a rating from 60 to 100 and, only for the best restaurants, a number of 'forks' ranging from 1 to 3. In 2013, among 2015 reviewed restaurants, 21 places obtained 3 forks, the highest prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "44888257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44888257", "title": "Gregory v Rangitikei", "text": "Gregory v Rangitikei\n\nGregory v Rangitikei [1995] 2 NZLR 208, (1994) 6 TCLR 199 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding the sale of property by tender, confirming that an offer inviting tenders to be submitted for the purchase of something did not amount to an offer capable of acceptance to sell that property, but instead merely amounted to an invitation to treat. It reinforces the English case of Spencer v Harding (1870) LR 5 CP 561. However the Court also ruled that there was a breach of the Fair Trading Act (1986).\n\nThe RDC advertised some surplus land or sale by tender, with the important caveat of \"highest or any tender not necessarily accepted\". During the tender process, the RDC discovered that they had previously agreed to sell the property to a neighbouring property owner Roberts.\n\nUltimately, Gregory was the highest tenderer, although his offer did not meet the council's reserve, and the council declined all tenders. The RDC then proceeded to exclusively negotiate a sale to Roberts, without giving Gregory a chance to purchase the property.\n\nThe court held that calling a tender is merely an invitation to treat, and so gave none of the tenderers any legal rights. However, it was a breach of section 9 of the Fair Trading Act, and Gregory was awarded damages.\n"}
{"id": "30876866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876866", "title": "Hobby horse", "text": "Hobby horse\n\nThe term hobby horse is used, principally by folklorists, to refer to the costumed characters that feature in some traditional seasonal customs, processions and similar observances around the world. They are particularly associated with May Day celebrations, Mummers plays and the Morris dance in England. \nHobby horses may be constructed in several different ways. The types most frequently found in the United Kingdom have been categorised as follows:\n\nNot all hobby horses fit into these categories, even within the UK. The famous May Day horses at Padstow and Minehead are large constructions, suspended at shoulder level, with only the performer's head emerging; they wear tall, pointed hats and their faces are masked. The Padstow horses have circular frames, with fairly small, snapping-jawed heads on long, straight necks; the Minehead horses are more boat-shaped, with pointed ends and, since about 1880, have had no heads, though they have long, trailing tails, about 2.2 m (7 ft) long.\n\nIn the South of France, in Belgium (the \"Ommegang de Termonde\") and elsewhere, large hobby horses are carried by multiple performers; their hollow frameworks are constructed in various ways. The \"Danse du Baiar\" at Esquièze the dancers wear à wooden horse head in their breasts when dancing.\n\nIn Indonesia, flat silhouettes of horses are suspended between the dancers' legs (see individual entries, below).\n\nThe most famous traditional British hobby horses are probably those of the May Day 'Obby 'Oss festival in Padstow, Cornwall. They are made from a circular framework, tightly covered with shiny black material, carried on the shoulders of a dancer whose face is hidden by a grotesque mask attached to a tall, pointed hat. A skirt (made from the same material) hangs down from the edge of the frame to around knee-height. There is a small, wooden, horse's head with snapping jaws, attached to a long, straight neck, with a long mane, which sticks out from the front of the frame. On the opposite side there is a small tail of horsehair.\n\nThere are two rival horses and their fiercely loyal bands of supporters at Padstow: the Old 'Oss is decorated with white and red, and its supporters wear red scarves to show their allegiance; the Blue Ribbon 'Oss (or \"Peace 'Oss\") is decorated with white and blue and its supporters follow suit . A \"Teaser\" waving a padded club dances in front of each 'Oss, accompanied, as they dance through the narrow streets, by a lively band of melodeons, accordions and drums playing Padstow's traditional May Song. The 'Osses sometimes capture young women beneath the skirt of the hobby horse; often they emerge smeared with black.\n\nChildren sometimes make \"Colt\" 'Osses and hold their own May Day parades.\n\nAt Minehead in Somerset there are three rival hobby horses, the Original Sailor's Horse, the Traditional Sailor's Horse and the Town Horse. They appear on May Eve (called \"Show Night\"), on May Day morning (when they salute the sunrise at a crossroads on the ouskirts of town), 2 May and 3 May (when a ceremony called \"The Bootie\" takes place in the evening at part of town called Cher) . Each horse is made of a boat-shaped wooden frame, pointed and built up at each end, which is carried on the dancer's shoulders. As at Padstow, his face is hidden by a mask attached to a tall, pointed hat. The top surface of the horse is covered with ribbons and strips of fabric. A long fabric skirt, painted with rows of multicoloured roundels, hangs down to the ground all round. A long tail is attached to the back of the frame. Each horse is accompanied by a small group of musicians and attendants. The Town Horse is accompanied by \"Gullivers\", dressed similarly to the horse but without the large frame; as at Padstow, smaller, children's horses have sometimes been constructed . The horses' visits are (or were) believed to bring good luck.\n\nIn the past there was also a similar hobby horse based at the nearby village of Dunster, which would sometimes visit Minehead . The Minehead horse has also visited Dunster Castle on May Day.\n\nAt Combe Martin in Devon a custom called \"The Hunting of the Earl of Rone\" took place on Ascension Day until 1837, when it was banned. It was revived in 1974 and now takes place over the four days of Spring Bank Holiday. A fool and a hobby horse, accompanied by grenadiers, search the village for the Earl, who is finally captured, mounted onto a (real) donkey and paraded through the village. He is frequently shot at by the soldiers, falls from his mount, and is revived by the hobby horse and the fool, and returned to his mount. Finally, on reaching the beach, the Earl is executed and thrown into the sea. \n\nA hobby horse is depicted in a stained glass window, dating from between 1550–1621, from Betley Hall, Staffordshire, now in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London, directly below a Maypole and surrounded by what appear to be morris dancers (accession no. C.248-1976) .\n\nA painting from c.1620, now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, shows Morris dancers by the Thames at Richmond; their party includes a hobby horse.\n\nSome historical English Morris dance \"sides\" (teams) had hobby horses associated with them, but the popularity of such animals with morris sides today probably dates from the early years of the morris revival, when Ilmington Morris created a tourney horse, ridden by Sam Bennett for many years. Some modern revival sides have extended their animal repertoire in various imaginative and appropriate ways, e.g. Pig Dyke Molly molly dancers, who wear black and white costumes and makeup, have a hobby zebra.\n\nA hobby horse takes part in the ancient Abbots Bromley Horn Dance. The old original horse (see gallery, above) has been replaced by a more realistic carving in recent years.\n\nA custom which took place at, or in the lead-up to, Christmas in eastern Kent, involving a group of ploughmen or other farmworkers leading a Hooden Horse (a horse's head made of wood, set on a short pole, with snapping jaws (sometimes set with nails for teeth) operated by a person hidden under a piece of sacking or a stable-blanket to represent the animal's body). The custom, described as \"only just extinct\" by folklorist Violet Alford in 1952, has since been revived in various places.\n\nA New Year custom from the Isle of Man, involving a white-painted wooden horse's head with red-painted snapping jaws, with a white sheet attached. Draped in the sheet, a man would carry the head, racing unexpectedly into the room and chase any girls present out of the house, followed by the rest of the company. When the \"Laare Vane\" (white mare) caught a girl she would take his place under the sheet to carry the horse back into the house, sitting away from the others while a kind of sword-dance was performed with sticks by six male dancers to the tune \"Mylecharane's March\" played on the fiddle. As the climax of the dance the fiddler would enter the circle of dancers and be imprisoned by their intertwined sticks; the dancers then, with wild cries, \"cut off his head\" and he fell to the ground. The \"dead\" fiddler was then blindfolded and led to the \"Laare Vane\", and knelt with his head in her lap. Another person would question the fiddler about events in the coming year (particularly who would become Valentines) and his replies were believed to be true predictions.\n\nA similar creature, the \"Mari Lwyd\" (\"Grey Mare\" in English), also made from a horse's skull, with a white sheet attached, took part in New Year house-visiting, luck-bringing rituals in south-east Wales. Gaining access to the house was a challenge; the \"Mari Lwyd\" party and those in the house took turns to improvise verses of a song. If the household failed to come up with a final verse the \"Mari\" was allowed to enter; if not, it was turned away. The custom has been revived in recent years.\n\nIn parts of Nottinghamshire, Derbyshire and around Sheffield there existed, into the early 20th century (and until 1970 at Dore) a Christmas and New Year custom of going from house to house performing a short play or dramatised song called \"The Old Horse\", \"T'Owd 'Oss\" or \"Poor Old Horse\". The horse was of the \"mast\" type, constructed in a similar way to the Wild Horse of the Soul-cakers and the hooden horses of Kent. The earliest record is from 1840, at Ashford-in-the-Water, Derbyshire.\n\nThis type of performance still continues at Richmond, Yorkshire, at Christmas. Three men dressed in hunting pink lead a horse \"made from the stuffed skin of a horse's head on a pole\" and the man who plays it hidden under a horse-blanket. The men sing the \"Poor Old Horse\" song and the horse snapped its jaws at the end of each verse. The custom as now performed in Richmond Market Place around midday on Christmas Eve involves the horse's \"death and resurrection\" (he crouches down and then rises up when a hunting horn is blown).\n\nThe name of this creature from Cornwall translates as \"grey head\". It was a \"hooden\" or \"mast\" type of horse, either carved from wood or made from a horse's skull, like the Welsh \"Mari Lwyd\", and accompanied the Christmas Guisers. Its body was a horse's hide or horse cloth. Sometimes it was led or ridden by Old Penglaze, a man with a blackened face who carried a staff. The animal has been revived in Penzance in recent years as Penglaz the Penzance 'Obby 'Oss and now appears on \"Mazey Eve\" and 23 June (St John's Eve) as part of a modern Midsummer festival, instead of around midwinter.\n\nIn Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire and some other parts of the East Midlands of England, mummers' plays were performed, on or around Plough Monday in early January, by teams known variously as Plough Stots, Plough Jags, Plough Jacks, Plough Bullocks or Plough Witches. In North Lincolnshire, large teams of elaborately costumed mummers, often having some of the characters duplicated, paraded through the village streets, sometimes splitting up into smaller groups to enter houses and perform extracts from their traditional play. Photographs of teams from Scunthorpe, Burringham, Scotter, Burton-upon-Stather and elsewhere showed double gangs with two hobby horses. They were of the sieve type, made by hanging the wooden frame of a large sieve, with a small wooden horse's head and horsehair tail attached, around the performer's waist, However, in an unusual variation, the \"rider\" was then disguised by wearing a horse-cloth which covered his head and body to the knees, so that he appeared to be a horse riding a horse.\n\nThe Salisbury Giant, a 12 ft-tall (3.5m) figure sometimes said to represent Saint Christopher, is a processional figure unique in Britain. The current figure's wooden frame was rebuilt c.1850 although it is probable that he existed in the 15th century. It rarely appears nowadays, being kept in the Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum, along with its companion Hob-Nob, a tourney-type hobby horse, a mischievous character which used to clear the way for the Giant in the processions that were held by the Tailor's Guild on Midsummer's Eve. Hob-Nob's rider's face and body were disguised with a substantial veil. The first clear mention of the hobby horse is in 1572 (along with a \"mayde Marrians Coate\") in the records of the Tailors' Guild (who, in 1873, finally sold both hobby-horse and Giant to the Museum). The processions, which also involved morris dancers until around 1911, continued sporadically on various occasions into the mid 20th century.\n\nSome regional variants of the mummers play, performed around All Souls' Day in Cheshire, included a non-speaking character called the \"Wild Horse\", made from a horse's skull mounted on a short pole. The horse was played by a man, hidden under a cloth attached to the pole, who bent forward to rest the pole on the ground. He could usually snap the horse's jaws loudly to frighten onlookers.\n\nA possibly unique custom involving three hobby horses is known only from a photograph taken at Winster Hall, Derbyshire, in about 1870. (The picture appears to have been taken in winter, as the climbing plants on the wall are leafless.) Eight or nine performers are involved; all (bar one?) have facial disguise.\n\nThe performers are grouped around a mast horse (possibly 'Snap Dragon'; see below) with a shiny black head made from a painted skull set on a short pole. Behind it are two men in threatening postures, one is waving a long stick like the handle of a brush or rake, the other probably a besom broom (blurred).\n\nTwo more men wearing military-looking jackets, buttoned to the neck, and white trousers stand astride small hobbyhorses of an apparently unique design: a cylindrical body, \"about three inches diameter and two feet long\", held between the rider's legs (supported at the front by a cord or narrow strap around the rider's neck), with a flat, curved wooden neck and a small, stylised head with snapping jaws (apart from their mouths, the horses look almost like simple rocking horses with the legs removed). The horsemen are masked in light-coloured cloth.\n\nAnother character wears a rather voluminous, tattered, long, dark dress; busily brushing the ground with a besom broom, \"she\" is reminiscent of the character Besom Bet who appears in some mummers plays. The last two characters are playing rough music on bladder fiddles.\n\nThe performance may have been arranged by Llewellynn Jewitt, who lived at the hall between 1868 and 1880. In 1931, Stanley Evans (\"Folk Dancing in Derbyshire\", \"Derbyshire Countryside\", vol 1, no 2, April 1931, p29) suggested the performers may have been performing a mumming play. Cawte dismissed this suggestion: \"if so it is a most unusual one, there is no sign of the combatants, the pair of horses is of an unusual design, and the mast horse seems to be the centre of attention.\"\n\nIn his field notes, made in 1908, folklorist Cecil Sharp referred to a hobby horse \"without a curtain\" being connected with the morris dance at Winster; he also mentions a \"Snap Dragon\" made from \"a real horse's head\" (skull?) dug up for the purpose, but does not say whether it was associated with the morris. It seems he did not see them himself and his account published in 1924, long after his visit to Winster, is confusing. In 1966, Winster morris dancers stated that there had never been a hobby horse associated with their morris, but that there had been a separate horse ceremony involving a skull that was reburied each year.\n\nIn notes published after his death, Llewellynn Jewitt noted how, in 1867, a dozen or so groups of traditional performers (several groups of guisers, the Wensley mummers, 'The Hobby Horse' and the 'Snap Dragon') called at Winster Hall in just four days between Christmas and New Year. He noted that, on 27 December, \"In the evening the Winster 'Snap Dragon' and 'Hobby Horse' conjoined came to us — ten men, one as Snap Dragon, two with Hobby Horses, two devils, etc., etc. We had them in the kitchen and gave them money.\" The photograph may well show one such \"conjoined\" team.\n\nOriginally created in the same way as a mast horse or hooden horse, the Derby Tup (ram) represented a male sheep. It took part in a dramatised version of the \"Derby Ram\" folksong, which was performed in northern Derbyshire and around Sheffield during the Christmas season by teams of boys. It is \"killed\" by a butcher and its \"blood\" is collected in a large bowl. In some versions it is brought back to life by a quack doctor, like a character in the Mummers play.\n\nThe \"Fasnacht\" (carnival) procession in Sankt Lorenzen im Lesachtal, south-west Austria, features a large band of musicians, some in fancy dress, and is led by a large, rather frisky hobby horse. It has a hollow body, covered by a long white sheet that almost reaches the ground, with a long neck and head apparently made of cardboard or papier-mâché; it is carried by two people who are hidden beneath the sheet. The horse has a few coloured ribbons attached to its mane, bridle and tail. Its reins are held by a man dressed in a red jacket, and it is closely followed by a boy (who occasionally prods it with a wooden hay-fork) and a blacksmith in an apron (who carries a bag containing a hammer). Other stock characters in the parade include four masked, smartly dressed \"old men\" with walking sticks. From time to time the horse falls to the ground and is then \"shod\" (the smith hammers the shoe soles of one or other of the carriers, who kick out, wildly). The man who leads it sometimes breathes into its mouth or nostrils. It then revives and continues through the village.\n\nAt Ezpeize the formal dancing is suddenly interrupted by a wild invasion. An unruly gang of rustically dressed characters, wearing masks or facial disguise, rushes into the dancing area in pairs, with loud cries. Some wave clubs. Some have furry tails. There is a doctor and a nurse, in white coats with a red cross on the back. They all race around the dancing space in an anti-clockwise direction and then fall to the ground in a writhing heap.\n\nA more rustic-looking horse of similar basic construction is part of the celebrations of the Carnaval de Lantz, Spain. Called the \"zaldiko\", it forms an essential part of the carnival procession, together with the \"ziripot\", a strange character in an enormous straw-stuffed costume.\n\nDressed in red trimmed with yellow, six tourney horses (\"xaldiko\" or \"zaldiko\") take part in the \"Comparsa de gigantes y cabezudos\" in Pamplona (Iruña) in Navarre (Nafarra). More realistic than the other Basque examples, they replicate the whole upper part of a horse's body from head to tail, with a skirt attached below. Each \"rider\" wears a pointed cap with a tassel and used to wield an inflated bladder on a stick; now, like the tricorned big-heads called \"Kilikis\" who parade with them, they carry a phallic \"verga\" made of foam-rubber which they use to belabour the onlookers.\n\nAlso known as the \"Doudou\", the Ducasse de Mons is a festival that takes place on Trinity Sunday in the town of Mons and consists of two parts. The first is a procession with the shrine of Saint Waltrude. The second part, called the \"Lumeçon\", depicts the combat of St George and the Dragon and features a large processional dragon with an enormously long, stiff tail. Saint George's attempts to kill the dragon with his lance all fail, so he then dispatches it with a pistol! An illustration from the 19th century clearly shows the dragon with three hobby-horses of the \"tourney\" type, but modern photographs and descriptions of the event show these animals are made of cow-hide and look more like dogs; they are known as \"Chinchins\" or \"Chins-Chins\" (a corruption of \"chien\", dog) and their role is to aid St. George.\n\nThe festival has been recognised by UNESCO since 2005 as one of the Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity under the general heading of \"Processional Giants and Dragons in Belgium and France\".\n\nThe finale to the Shrovetide processions in the town of Hlinsko, in the Czech Republic, and six nearby villages (including Hamry, Blatno, Studnice and Vortová), in the Hlinecko region of eastern Bohemia, is a ritual called \"Killing the Mare\".\n\nAccompanied by a brass band, men and boys wearing colourful costumes representing traditional characters spend a whole day going from door to door, visiting every household in their community (except those known to be in mourning). Details differ slightly from place to place, but there are usually two or three hobby-horses (of the tourney type). Other characters include the Straw Men, dressed in costumes made of rice-straw, with blacked faces, and tall, pointed straw hats; they embrace women and roll with them on the ground, which is said to confer fertility. Housewives gather straw from the Straw Men's skirts as a good luck charm, taking it home to feed their geese and chickens.\n\nWith the \"Little Wife\" (a man dressed as a woman) and the \"dotted man\", four dancers representing Turks perform a ritual dance in front of each house, to ensure wealth for the family and a good harvest. They must lift their legs as high as possible to ensure tall crops of flax. They wave handkerchieves, as in the English morris dance but originally wielded sabres instead.\n\nAt the end of the day the men perform a ritual called \"Killing the Mare\". One of the group's hobby horses, is judged and then \"killed\" for its alleged sins. It is then \"brought back to life\" (with alcohol) and a dance ensues, involving the onlookers. This custom has survived despite being banned in the 18th and 19th centuries by the Catholic Church and in the 20th by the Socialist government. It has now been recognised by UNESCO as an element of mankind's Intangible Cultural Heritage.\n\nSeveral hobby-horse customs exist in the Languedoc area of southwest France, which is a stronghold for \"totem\" animals, with many towns and villages having their own particular creature; most appear at carnival time and/or their local patronal festivals, saint's days and other festivities.\n\nAt Pézenas there is a huge creature called \"Le Poulain\" or \"Lo Polin\" (Occitan for \"the colt\"), carried by nine men and led by another, accompanied by a band of musicians. The \"Poulain\" has a realistically carved wooden head, with a snapping jaws and an extending neck that can reach up to first-floor windows; money or other offerings put into its mouth tumble down inside its neck. Its semi-cylindrical body is covered with a dark blue cloth, now decorated with stars and the coat of arms of Pézenas. Below the frame it has a tricolor skirt.\n\nThe \"Poulain\" carries two effigies on its back, one male, one female, called \"Estieinou\" and \"Estieinette\" (or \"Estieineta\"). Although the first written reference to the \"Poulain\" is from 1615, the creature is supposed to commemorate a visit to the town in 1226 by Louis VIII, during which the king's favourite mare fell ill. She had to be left behind in Pézenas while Louis continued with the Albigensian Crusade. On his return he was astonished to find that not only was his mare now fully recovered, but she had also given birth to a fine colt, which was duly presented to him, adorned with ribbons. In return he decreed that the town should construct a wooden colt to be used to celebrate all its public festivities (this legend was first recorded in 1701).\n\nIts early appearances were on the public feast days of Saint Blaise (3 February), Saint John the Baptist (24 June) and the Feast of the Assumption (15 Aug). As a symbol of power, it also appeared at times when the town's \"prévôt\" distributed bread to the poor (the last such was in 1911), as well as visits by royalty or other dignitaries. The \"Poulain\" was burned in 1789, during the French Revolution, because of its royal associations, but was revived in 1803. Since then it has appeared at Mardi Gras and other festive occasions. Its framework, once a weighty construction of chestnut, has been made of aluminium since 1989.\n\nOriginally the \"Poulain\" had no riders; \"Estieinou\" and \"Estieinette\" (sometimes spelled \"Estiénon\" and \"Estiéneta\" in the French manner) are meant to recall another royal occasion when Louis XIII visited the town in 1622; the Maréchal de Bassompierre, following the King, was crossing the river Peyne on horseback. He saw a peasant-woman having difficulty making the crossing on foot and gallantly offered her a seat on his horse. Their merry arrival in the town caused great amusement and so the two effigies were made to remember the event.\n\nThere have been smaller, junior \"Poulains\" in Pézenas, made by or for children; the Pézenas \"fadas\" also have a full-sized version of their own. There have also been similar creatures or imitations elsewhere, some of which still continue. There is a very lively \"Poulain\" at Saint-Thibéry and others are (or have been) known at Adissan, Alignan-du-Vent, Florensac, Montblanc and Vias (where it is linked to a local legend of a medieval famine and is known as \"lo Pouli de la Fabo\" – the colt of the bean). They have also been recorded at Agde, Caux, Montagnac, Castelnau, Valros and Nizas, all in the Languedoc. An outlier in the Ariège, at St Pierre de Soulan, was instigated by a former inhabitant of Pézenas.\n\nHobby horses of the tourney type, with a frame suspended around the dancer's waist, can also appear at various festivities in the Languedoc. An illustration of the \"chivalet\" dance, and its traditional tune, and an old photograph of an animal of this type, are on show in the folk museum at Agde. It is particularly associated with Florensac, where it is called \"le chevalet\", and is considered the town's totem.\n\nThe Chevalet of Cournonterral in the Hérault died out around 1980 but was revived in March 2011 as part of the annual carnival.\n\nThe Donkey or Ass of Bessan is another of the Languedoc's \"totem\" animals. Much smaller than the Poulain, it is made from a frame covered in cloth and decorated with crepe paper flowers and painted motifs. Under its skirt it is carried by four men, led by another who dresses in white, with a tricolor sash, and cracks a whip. The \"Âne\" dances from side to side and backwards and forwards to traditional tunes played nowadays on various instruments, although until the 1970s it was only the traditional \"hautbois\" (a type of oboe) and drums. Sometimes the beast bucks its hindquarters into the air, supported only by the leader and the first dancer, who twirls around; the other three stand ready to catch the frame as it descends. The \"Âne\" is brought out to open the feast of St Laurent, appearing first at 5pm on the Saturday closest to the saint's day, accompanied by firecrackers and bells, then again on the Sunday morning when it goes to a Mass to be blessed, before its final dance.\n\nThere is also an Âne at Gignac.\n\nLe Cheval-Bayard de Clermont-l'Hérault was revived in 1988, after more than a century and a half. The town's original \"cheval-bayard\" was burned in 1815; known as the \"Bayard\" (\"baiard\" in Occitan), meaning a bay horse, its origins have been traced back to the 9th century.\n\nPerhaps the best-known is the Chameau (Camel) of Béziers, which dates from 1613, two years earlier than the Poulain of Pézenas. There is a large and impressive Boeuf (Bull) at Mèze, with a huge mouth; it is said to date back to at least 1229. Lo Picart, at Saint-Jean-de-Fos, is a ferocious ram; it has existed since at least 1683. Montagnac has a goat. Sometimes the choice of animal is based on a play on words: Loupian has, unsurprisingly, a wolf (\"Loup\"). (One of the most recent, and possibly the most bizarre, \"totems\" is Le Porquet of Pinet, a caterpillar, created in the early 1970s.)\n\nSeveral \"frisky horses\", tourney hobby horses, accompany the traditional group \"Les Tambourinaires de Sant-Sumian\", from Brignoles, a folklore revival group founded in 1942. Their performances are faithfully based on authentic traditions, such as the \"Chivau Frusc\" cited by author Frederic Mistral at Aix-en-Provence and folklorist Violet Alford, principally at Brignoles but also \"all over southern Provence\".\n\nVarious creatures used to appear in the Odenwald around Christmas, including straw bears and \"bock\" figures(variations of which can also be found in Sweden and other parts of Scandiniavia around Midwinter and Christmas time perhaps having links to the Germanic God Thor and perhaps even older fertility rights). The \"bock\" (the name can be translated as \"goat\", \"buck\", \"ram\" or \"stag\") was made in a similar way to a mast horse, but using a long, two- or three-pronged hayfork that formed form its horns, covered in a white sheet, partly stuffed to form a head with a face painted onto it; these were sometimes held up outside windows to frighten the householder. Sometimes two people stood under the sheet to form a longer-bodied creature. \"Weihnachtsesels\" (Christmas donkeys) were made in a similar way, usually with two people bending over under a darker coloured blanket, rather like a pantomime horse.\n\nThe \"schimmelreiter\" was a more elaborate construction, made from two (or more) large sieves or riddles fastened in an upright position in front of and behind the \"rider\" at chest level. The front sieve had a stuffed fabric head and neck attached. The whole was covered with a sheet with a small hole in the centre to allow just the rider's head to show.\n\nThe teams of Irish mummers known as Wrenboys who perform on Saint Stephen's Day (26 December) in pubs and private houses have been known to include a white hobby horse (\"Láir Bhán\" – c.f. Laare Vane, above) of the tourney type, and this has survived into the present century, at Dunquin in County Kerry for example. At Ballycotton, in Co. Cork, a \"Láir bhán\" led a procession of horn-blowing youths at Halloween who collected money \"in the name of Muck Olla\" (a legendary giant boar).\n\nThe city of Kraków has a hobby-horse called the \"Lajkonik\" which traditionally appears on the first Thursday after the religious feast of Corpus Christi and parades through the streets, collecting money, accompanied by musicians and costumed followers, some in traditional Polish costume, others in oriental dress, who carry horsetail insignia. The colourful costume of the \"Lajkonik\" represents a bearded Tatar warrior, who carries a golden mace and is mounted on a white horse. To be touched by the mace is said to bring good luck. The custom is said to have been carried on for 700 years, and various stories are told to explain its origins. The hobby horse has become an unofficial symbol of Kraków, and versions often appear as tourist attraction in the Market Square.\n\nThe Basque country on the borders of France and Spain has a strong dance tradition. Several dances are linked to seasonal festivals. The \"zamaltzain\", a hobby horse of the \"tourney\" type, with a small wooden head and a short, lacy skirt, takes part in some dances and processions in Zuberoa (La Soule, the easternmost part of the Basque country) in places such as Ezpeize, Maule, Urdiñarbe, Barkoxe, Altza, Altzürükü and Atarratze. The \"rider\" wears elaborate costume of red or black including a \"koha\", a tall, beribboned hat, which always has a mirror on the front. \"Zamaltzain\" means muleteer or mule-keeper. The dance in which the \"mules\" take part is danced by two teams, one dressed in red, the other in black, and is said by some scholars (such as Eugène Goyhénèche of the University of Pau) to represent an attack on a village by the men of another.\n\nThere are many festivals in the Catalonia region of north-east Spain which involve processions with giants and outsize animals; some also involve hobby horses (of the \"tourney\" type, but with a more-or-less realistic head and body, nowadays often constructed from fibreglass).\n\nLarger figures of mules are also found in several places, carried by two performers whose legs are visible beneath a skirt hanging from the animal's hollow body. (In addition, dragons of various sorts are also popular, as are bulls, eagles and lions; many have fireworks attached to them, or set off around them.\n\nThe Santa Tecla Festival takes place at Tarragona from 15–24 September and includes the saint's day, 23 September. A number of animals, real and mythical, are impersonated in the parades that form a major part of the festivities. Among them is a larger-than-life \"Mulassa\" (mule) carried by two dancers who are hidden under its skirts, apart from their legs.\n\nThe other creatures that take part are the \"àliga\" (eagle), \"bou\" (bull), \"cucafera\" (coco, a mythical monster), \"drac de Sant Roc\" (dragon of Saint Roch), \"lleó\" (lion), and \"víbria\" (a female wyvern with prominent breasts). Several of these have fireworks attached to their extremities, or are showered with sparks by their attendants, and are a spectacular sight.\n\nKuda Kepang (woven bamboo horses, also known as \"Kuda Lumping\" or \"Jaran Kepang\") originate in the state of Johor and performances are often given at weddings by Malayan men of Javanese origin in Singapore and elsewhere. Led by a \"Danyang\", a typical troupe today comprises 9 horsemen, 2 medicine men, 5 gamelan musicians and 9–15 'guardians'.\n\nModern performances re-enact the stories of the nine Muslim evangelists who waged battles to bring Islam to Java, but nowadays they are often kept brief and intended simply for entertainment; they may even be performed by women. The gamelan percussion orchestra is made up of 2 drums, a hanging gong, two knobbed gongs on a wooden frame, and 5 tubular bamboo chimes called \"angklung\".\n\nDetails of the fuller, more elaborate performances, however, include states of shamanistic trance-like possession, and the custom may have originally been a form of totemic worship.\n\nPhotographs from the early 20th century, in the collection of Amsterdam's Tropenmuseum (Museum of the Tropics), show another ritual dance, the \"Reog Ponogoro\", involving a huge tiger mask and costume (\"Singa Barong\"), accompanied by \"Jatil\" riding woven bamboo hobby horses who perform the Jaran Kepang dance.\n\nIn Newfoundland, hobby horses of the \"mast\" type were sometimes used by the mummers or 'janneys' who went mummering around the Christmas season; they also took a Christmas bull, made in a similar manner, on their house-to-house visits. The mischievous horse was not intended to be malevolent, but its appearance and antics often frightened those it visited or encountered. Mummering was dying out but has enjoyed a recent revival, and the first Mummers Festival (held in St John's in December 2009) even had workshops on making hobby horses.\n\nThe word \"hobby\" is glossed by the OED as \"a small or middle-sized horse; an ambling or pacing horse; a pony.\" The word is attested in English from the 14th century, as Middle English \"hobyn\". Old French had \"hobin\" or \"haubby\", whence Modern French \"aubin\" and Italian \"ubino\". But the Old French term is apparently adopted from English rather than vice versa. OED connects it to \"the by-name \"Hobin\", \"Hobby\"\", a variant of \"Robin\"\" (compare the abbreviation \"Hob\" for \"Robert\"). This appears to have been a name customarily given to a cart-horse, as attested by White Kennett in his \"Parochial Antiquities \" (1695), who stated that \"Our ploughmen to some one of their cart-horses generally give the name of Hobin, the very word which Phil. Comines uses, Hist. VI. vii.\" Another familiar form of the same Christian name, \"Dobbin\" has also become a generic name for a cart-horse.\n\nSamuel Johnson, \"Dictionary of the English Language\", 1755, glosses \"A strong, active horse, of a middle size, said to have been originally from Ireland; an ambling nag.\"\n\nHoblers or Hovellers were men who kept a light nag that they may give instant information of threatened invasion. (Old French, hober, to move up and down; our hobby, q.v.) In mediæval times their duties were to reconnoitre, to carry intelligence, to harass stragglers, to act as spies, to intercept convoys, and to pursue fugitives. Henry Spelman (d. 1641) derived the word from \"hobby\".\n\nThe Border horses, called hobblers or hobbies, were small and active, and trained to cross the most difficult and boggy country, \"and to get over where our footmen could scarce dare to follow.\" - George MacDonald Fraser, \"The Steel Bonnets, The Story of the Anglo-Scottish Border Reivers\".\n\nFrom the term \"hobby horse\" came the expression \"to ride one's hobby-horse\", meaning \"to follow a favourite pastime\", and in turn, the modern sense of the term \"hobby\".\n\nThe term is also connected to the \"draisine\", a forerunner of the bicycle, invented by Baron Karl von Drais. In 1818, a London coach-maker named Denis Johnson began producing an improved version, which was popularly known as the \"hobby-horse\".\n\nThe artistic movement, Dada, is possibly named after a French child's word for hobby horse.\n\n"}
{"id": "16045455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16045455", "title": "Immigration officer", "text": "Immigration officer\n\nAn immigration officer is a law enforcement official whose job is to ensure that immigration legislation is enforced. This can cover the rules of entry for visa applicants, foreign nationals or those seeking asylum at the border, detecting and apprehending those that have breached the border and removing them, or pursuing those in breach of immigration and criminal laws.\n\nUnited Kingdom immigration officers were previously employees of the UK Border Agency, and now work for Immigration Enforcement, a Home Office command, and are appointed by the Home Secretary, whose powers are conferred by the Immigration Act 1971 and who also act in accordance with Immigration Rules. The Immigration Rules are statutory instruments laid down by Parliament under Section 3(2) of the 1971 Act which governs the regulation of entry into the United Kingdom. The Rules are amended by Primary Legislation when required, and provide a framework to ensure that those that come to, or remain in, the UK do so legally, and those that do not can be removed. Immigration officers' powers over citizens of the European Economic Area (EEA) and their family members are governed by the Immigration (EEA) Regulations 2006.\n\nImmigration officers have the power of arrest and detention conferred on them by the Immigration Act 1971, when both at ports and inland. In practice, port immigration officers exercise powers under Schedule 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 and inland immigration Officers under S28A-H of the Immigration Act 1971 and paragraph 17 of Schedule 2. This has led to separate training for port and inland officers, where port officers are not trained in Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE). \"Designated Immigration Officers\" are port immigration officers who have been trained in detention under PACE. The archetypal power of arrest is for an immigration or nationality offence, which involves a person's entitlement to be in the UK. Though immigration officers also have powers of arrest outside immigration and nationality offences under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, the Crime and Courts Act 2013, and under the Terrorism Act 2000 discussed below.\n\nBefore the UKBA was established, British immigration officers were not uniformed, but they now wear a uniform with rank insignia.\n\nAn immigration officer at a port has the power to detain any person without arrest who is not a British citizen to investigate whether they qualify for entry to the United Kingdom under Schedule 2 of the Immigration Act 1971. Schedule 2 also gives an immigration officer the power to arrest without warrant anyone who is liable to detention.\n\nThe passing of the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act created a provision for the Secretary of State to designate individuals as a \"general customs official\". Immigration officers who have received the appropriate training are designated as general customs officials and can carry out customs functions in additions to their immigration ones. The passing of the act supersedes the process where the Customs Commissioners would designate officers as customs officials.\n\nDesignated Immigration Officers (DIOs) are designated by the Home Secretary, and only if they are fit and proper for the purpose, and suitably trained.\nUnder Section 2 of the UK Borders Act, DIOs can detain any person without arrest in a port in England, Wales or Northern Ireland if they think that the individual may be liable to arrest by a constable for any offence under Section 24 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 or Article 26(1), (2) or (3) of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989, or if there is a warrant for their arrest. They can be searched and detained using reasonable force for up to three hours, and can be pursued if they leave the port. If a DIO detains a person, they must arrange for a constable to attend as soon as is reasonably practicable. It is an offence to abscond, assault or obstruct a DIO exercising their powers under this section.\n\nHowever, Immigration Officers also have far broader powers under the Terrorism Act 2000 to examine, question, and search anyone in order to establish whether or not they appear to be or have been concerned in the commission, preparation or\ninstigation of acts of terrorism. A person may be detained under Schedule 7 for up to 9 hours. The Immigration Officer need not have reasonable suspicion that the detainee has in fact been involved in terrorism. The detainee has a duty to provide the Immigration Officer with all information requested and a failure to do so constitutes an offence, punishable by 3 months imprisonment and a fine.\n\nUnder Section 28A of the Immigration Act 1971, Immigration Officers have wide-ranging arrest powers. They can arrest:\n\n\nA specially-trained Immigration Officer working in a Criminal Investigation Team also has the power to arrest without warrant any person that he has reasonable suspicion of committing criminal offences of obtaining or seeking to obtain leave to remain by deception, assisting unlawful immigration to a member state, helping an asylum seeker to enter the UK, and assisting entry to UK of anyone in breach of a deportation or exclusion order; and also several non-immigration criminal offences such as conspiracy to defraud, bigamy, perjury, theft, obtaining services by deception, fraud, forgery and counterfeiting, trafficking for sexual exploitation, possessing and making false identity documents.\n\nAn Immigration Officer can enter and search a premises owned or occupied by someone arrested for an offence without warrant for nationality documents.\n\nIt is an offence to assault an Immigration Officer, and an Immigration Officer may arrest a person if they reasonably suspect that the person has committed or is about to commit that offence.. On 13th September 2018, the Emergency Workers (Offences) Act 2018 received Royal Assent. This added a subsection which states any common assault and/or battery on an immigration officer is also now indictable and therefore subject to a maximum of 12 months if tried on indictment\n\nAt all times, an Immigration Officer may arrest any person that he has a reasonable suspicion of committing an indictable offence using the \"any person powers\" (also known as citizen's arrest) contained in Section 24A of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984.\n\nThe immigration legislation in Hong Kong is enforced by the Immigration Department.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, as per the Immigrants and Emigrants Act no 20 of 1948, enforcement is carried out by the Department of Immigration and Emigration headed by the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration who is also the Commissioner for Registration of Persons of Indian Origin.\n\nIn Australia, immigration officers are employees of the Department of Home Affairs (Australia). Immigration officers are law enforcement officials that operate under the Migration Act 1958. The term “immigration officer” can apply to officers of the Department who assess and make decisions on visa applications. It can also be relate to Australian Border Force Officers that perform immigration duties at sea ports, airports, immigration detention facilities, and field compliance. Border Force Officers have additional powers under the Australian Border Force Act 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24993036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24993036", "title": "International Internet Preservation Consortium", "text": "International Internet Preservation Consortium\n\nThe International Internet Preservation Consortium is an international organization of libraries and other organizations established to coordinate efforts to preserve internet content for the future. It was founded in July 2003 by 12 participating institutions, and had grown to 35 members by January 2010. As of October 2017, there are 54 members.\n\nMembership is open to archives, museums, libraries (including national libraries), and cultural heritage institutions.\n\nParticipating national libraries and archives include:\n\n\nOther participating organizations include:\n\n\nWebCite used to be, but is no longer, a member of the IIPC. In a 2012 message, its founder Gunther Eysenbach commented that \"WebCite has no funding, and IIPC charges 4000 Euro/yr in membership fees.\"\n\nThe IIPC sponsors and collaborates on a number of different projects with its member organizations.\n\n\nIIPC also maintains an electronic mailing list open to anyone interested in issues associated with web harvesting, archiving, and quality maintenance issues.\n\nIIPC sponsored a project on \"cross-archival search strategies\" which included the creation of an archive focused on the 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\nStarting in 2006, the National Library of New Zealand and the British Library developed the Web Curator Tool, an open-source workflow management system for selective web archiving. Version 1.6 was released on December 5, 2012, and is available at SourceForge. The Web Curator Tool is built upon Java technologies such as Apache Tomcat, the Spring Framework and Hibernate, and Internet Archives technologies such as the Heritrix web archiving crawler, the NutchWAX web archive full-text search engine and the Wayback Machine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19845831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19845831", "title": "Invention disclosure", "text": "Invention disclosure\n\nAn invention disclosure, or invention disclosure report, is a confidential document written by a scientist or engineer for use by a company's patent department, or by an external patent attorney, to determine whether patent protection should be sought for the described invention. It may follow a standardized form established within a company.\n\n"}
{"id": "55963783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55963783", "title": "Islamic Defenders Front", "text": "Islamic Defenders Front\n\nThe Islamic Defenders Front (), also known by the acronym FPI () or Islam Defenders Front, is a far-right Sunni Islamist Indonesian political organization formed in 1998. It was founded by Muhammad Rizieq Shihab with the backing from Indonesian military, police generals and political elites. The organization's leader is Ahmad Shabri Lubis who was inaugurated in 2015, and Rizieq Shihab remains acting as the adviser by the title \"Great Imam\" of FPI for life. \n\nFPI originally started as a civil vigilante that positioned itself as an Islamic moral police against vice, whose activity was unauthorized by the government. FPI targeted several \"warungs\", stores, bars, nightclubs and entertainment venues which were perceived as discourteous for selling alcohol or open during Ramadhan. \nLater, it transformed itself into an Islamist pressure group with active online campaigns.\n\nThe organization has been known to have organized various religious or political mass protests; the most prominent example being the November 2016 Jakarta protests and several other rallies against the incumbent Jakarta governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama in the following months. Other prominent protests orchestrated by FPI is a rally in the American Embassy condemning the Iraq War, which dates back as far as late 2003. The protests are criticized as conducting hate crimes in the name of Islam and religious-related violence.\n\nFPI was founded on 17 August 1998 by Habib Muhammad Rizieq Syihab. Rizieq Shihab is a Hadhrami Arab Indonesian of Sufi Sunni Muslim background, who is known for defending Hadhrami Sufi Islam while advocating against Ahmadis and Shias. The establishment received backing from military and police generals, including former Jakarta Police Chief Nugroho Jayusman. It is also associated with former Indonesian National Armed Forces commander Wiranto. Leaked US diplomatic cables obtained through WikiLeaks say that FPI allegedly received funding from the police and former political elites. The organization nominally aims to implement sharia law in Indonesia.\n\nLater, it transformed itself into an Islamist pressure group which furthers their political motives by promoting what is considered as religious or racial propaganda throughout the Internet and occasional anti-government campaigns. However, in January 2017, several FPI's official Twitter accounts were suspended due to violations of Twitter rules, including spamming, incivility and threats.\n\nFPI has been vocal against liberalism and multiculturalism, and to the extension Pancasila doctrine which upholds religious pluralism. On 1 June 2008, FPI staged an attack against members of the National Alliance for the Freedom of Faith and Religion (AKKBB), who were holding a rally coinciding the commemoration day of Pancasila near the Monas monument in the city center. The attack was upheld as a response to the perceived threat by AKKBB against FPI. The incident was referred to by media as Monas Incident. The incident had caused media outrage and lead to the arrest of Rizieq Shihab among 56 other FPI members. Rizieq was later imprisoned for one year and six months, after being convicted over attacks against masses of AKKBB. In January 2017, Police declared FPI leader Rizieq Shihab a suspect for alleged Pancasila defamation.\n\nFPI also often holds protests against what it sees as Christianization of Indonesia. Notable cases include GKI Yasmin Bogor, and HKBP Church Bekasi, where the group used violence to force them to close down their churches. FPI also endorsed the Singkil administration for closing around 20 churches in Singkil, Aceh. The Singkil case stirred the controversy for the use of the local administrative law in accordance with Sharia, which runs counter against the Indonesian constitution which guarantees freedom of religious practices. In early 2017, FPI and related Islamist groups staged a mass protest against the construction of a new Christian church in Bekasi, West Java. The protest developed into a riot and scuffle with the police, resulting in several property damages and five police officers left injured.\n\nOne of Rizieq Shihab's propaganda campaign openly called for hostility against Ahmadis: \n\"We call on the Muslim community. Let us go to war with Ahmadiyyah! Kill Ahmadiyyah wherever they are!... And, if they talk about human rights? Human rights are satanic! Human rights are crap!...If they want to know who is responsible for killing Ahmadiyyah, it is I; it is FPI and others from the Muslim community who are responsible for killing Ahmadiyyah! Say that Sobri Lubis ordered it, that Habib Rizieq and FPI ordered it! \"\nFPI has been suspected acting in the background of the assault of the Ahmadiyya community and killing of three on 6 February in 2011. The assault was led by a group of over thousand people, wielding rocks, machetes, swords, and spears. The group attacked the house of an Ahmadi leader in Cikeusik, Banten. Similarly, a group attacked the Ahmadiyya headquarters near Bogor and harassed its members in areas such as in East Lombok, Manislor, Tasikmalaya, Parung, and Garut.\n\nFPI often employs anti-communism as its political motivation. In June 2010, along with other organizations, FPI attacked a meeting on free healthcare in East Java, mistaking it for a meeting of the banned Communist Party of Indonesia. In January 2017, FPI called for the withdrawal of Rupiah banknotes, accused them of displaying the image of the banned hammer and sickle logo. FPI allegations, however, was rejected by Bank Indonesia (BI), referring to it as a recto-verso security feature of BI logo for the new Rupiah banknotes. FPI was accused of stirring public unrest by slandering Bank Indonesia and the government.\n\nThe FPI has been vocal in campaigns against the incumbent governments, starting in President Yudhoyono's presidency. The campaign is said to be more intense during the Joko Widodo era and after Basuki Tjahaja Purnama's alleged blasphemy case in 2016. Because of this, the FPI is widely seen as an opposition movement, and is reportedly known to have close relations with opposition coalition parties. Various FPI leaders and senior cadres recently developed closer ties with numerous opposition figures.\n\nFPI had been sensitive toward the perceived defamation and violation of Islamic norms in various aspects of society. In its early days, FPI had targeted shops at Garut and Makassar that sold alcohol during Ramadan month, some of which were reportedly ransacked. Various nightclubs, bars, and cafes have been also targeted by FPI for perceived unconformity with the Islamic norms. In 2006, FPI and other Islamic organizations including Indonesian Mujahedeen Council had protested against the issue of \"Playboy Indonesia\". The protest had led to the eviction of the \"Playboy\" office from Jakarta to Bali. In 2013, FPI accused LGBT activists, such as Lady Gaga and Irshad Manji, of being \"devils\", and threatened their safety. This had erupted controversy in 2013 during the Lady Gaga's \"Born This Way tour\", which resulted in the eventual cancellation of concerts in Indonesia. The action was criticized for being a violation of Indonesian law sanctioning violent threat, as prescribed in Kitab Undang-Undang Pidana, article 336.\n\nIn 2015, FPI lambasted the Regent of Purwakarta, Dedi Mulyadi, accusing him of being a \"musyrik\" (polytheist) after he put up statues of Sundanese puppet characters in a number of city parks throughout Purwakarta in West Java. FPI considered Dedi of debasing Islamic tenets by violating the aniconist principle of Islam, as well as using the Sundanese greeting \"Sampurasun\", instead of the Muslim-approved \"Assalamualaikum\". In December 2015, around a hundred FPI members conducted sweeping against the Regent. Its members inspected cars passing through the front gate of Taman Ismail Marzuki (TIM) in Central Jakarta where the Indonesia Theater Federation Award was being held, attempting to stop Dedi from attending the event.\n\nFPI had been known for its constant efforts to topple the administration of Jakarta governor Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, popularly known as \"Ahok\". FPI had criticized Basuki's background as a Christian and Chinese Indonesian, both being the minority, citing that the position of the governor of Jakarta should be reserved only for Muslims. In 2014, FPI held a demonstration in front of Jakarta DPRD Building. FPI refused Basuki to become Jakarta's governor after being left by Joko Widodo who was elected as President in the same year.\n\nIn late 2016, during the 2017 Jakarta gubernatorial election season, FPI led the national outrage against Basuki for his alleged blasphemy against the Qur'an. As a response to the perceived blasphemy, FPI had made seven protests titled \"Aksi Bela Islam\", (Indonesian for \"Action for Defending Islam\") in order to create a pressure against Basuki and demanded for his imprisonment. The protests were culminated in November 2016 Jakarta protests, December 2016 Jakarta protests and February 2017 Jakarta protests. They were done once a month until Basuki's final conviction on May 2017, in which he was sentenced to two years.\n\nThere have been calls by Indonesians, mainly mainstream Muslims, other religious organizations, political communities and ethnic groups, FPI to be disbanded or banned. Various critics and media outlets have described FPI as inciting extremism, racism and bigotry, particularly noting its occasional hate crimes, discrimination against minority and religious intolerance. International Crisis Report called it \"an urban thug organization\", emphasizing on their violent vigilantism. The group has been also criticized for the use of violence; the police have recorded that FPI engaged in 29 cases of violence and destructive behaviour in 2010 and 5 cases in 2011 in the following provinces: West Java, Banten Province, Central Java, North Sumatra and South Sumatra.\n\nOn February 11, 2012 hundreds of protesters from the local community in Palangkaraya, Central Kalimantan; mainly from the Dayak tribe; staged a protest at the Tjilik Riwut Airport to block the arrival of four senior leaders of the group, who wanted to inaugurate the provincial branch of the organization. Due to security concerns, the management of the airport ordered all FPI members to remain on board of the aircraft while other passengers disembarked. FPI members were then flown to Banjarmasin in South Kalimantan. The deputy chairman of the Central Kalimantan Dayak Tribe Council (DAD) later said that the organization had asked the Central Kalimantan Police to ban the group's provincial chapter as FPI's presence would create tension, particularly as Central Kalimantan is known as a place conducive to religious harmony. A formal letter from the Central Kalimantan administration stated that they firmly rejected FPI and would not let them establish a chapter in the province because it \"contradicts the local wisdom of the Dayak tribe that upholds peace\". The letter was sent to the Minister of Coordination of Political, Legal and Security Affairs with copies being sent to the President of Indonesia, the People's Consultative Assembly Chief, the Speaker of the House, the Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court, the Home Minister and the National Police Chief. Up till now, FPI has been banned all over the Kalimantan Region by Kalimantan's people for their disruptive and divisive actions against their communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "41460119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41460119", "title": "John Thompson Platts", "text": "John Thompson Platts\n\nJohn Thompson Platts (1830–1904), was a British language scholar. His Persian and Hindi grammars were a marked advance upon the work of any English predecessor, and are still in use today.\n\nPlatts was born in Calcutta, India, on 1 August 1830, the second son of Robert Platts of Calcutta, who died young leaving behind a large family and a widow in difficult circumstances. After being educated at Bedford School in England, Platts returned to India and, between 1858 and 1859, worked as mathematics master at Benares College and in charge of Saugor School in the Central Provinces. In 1861 he was appointed mathematical professor and headmaster of Benares College. In 1864, Platts became assistant inspector of schools, second circle, Northwest Provinces and, in 1868, he became officiating inspector of schools, northern circle, Central Provinces. He retired in March 1872, owing to ill-health.\n\nPlatts then returned to England, and settling in Ealing, occupying himself by teaching Hindi and Persian, having mastered both languages. In June 1880, he was elected teacher of Persian language at Oxford University. He matriculated from Balliol College, Oxford in February 1881 and, in June 1881, became Master of Arts \"honoris causa\". In March 1901, he received the degree of Master of Arts by decree. He died suddenly in London on 21 September 1904, and was buried at Wolvercote Cemetery near Oxford.\n\nPlatts married twice: first, in 1856, in Lahore, India, to Alice Jane Kenyon, by whom he had three sons and four daughters; and second, in 1876, to Mary Elizabeth Hayes of Melbourne, Australia. They had one son.\n\n"}
{"id": "2827148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2827148", "title": "Late Show Top Ten List", "text": "Late Show Top Ten List\n\nThe Top Ten List was a regular segment of the television programs \"Late Night with David Letterman\" and the \"Late Show with David Letterman.\" Each night, host David Letterman would present a list of ten items, compiled by his writing staff, that circulated around a common theme.\n\nThe lists were usually given humorous topics such as, \"Top Ten Signs Your Kid Had A Bad First Day At School\" or, \"Top Ten Rejected James Bond Gadgets\" or based on current events. Letterman would also occasionally give an intentionally absurd and mundane category, such as \"Top Ten Numbers Between One and Ten\", drawing humor from the silliness of ranking such mundane items.\n\nLetterman's top ten skit was thought of when Steve O'Donnell was head writer of the \"Late Night With David Letterman\" show. According to O'Donnell, the Top Ten List was an \"almost simultaneous inspiration arriving from staffers Jim Downey, Randy Cohen and Robert “Morty” Morton — largely prompted by the ridiculous 'eligible bachelor' lists in a local New York paper that included the 84-year-old Bill Paley. 'Why, we can put such nonsense together ourselves!' we exclaimed. And we did.\" \n\nOn September 18, 1985, the very first list, \"The Top Ten Things That Almost Rhyme With Peas\" was broadcast.\n\nBefore Letterman's departure for CBS, NBC had insisted that the \"Top Ten List\" was the intellectual property of the network, and demanded that it not be used on his new show; Letterman rebutted that the list was not NBC's property or even his own, since he had stolen the concept from elsewhere. A loose compromise was reached where it would be renamed the \"Late Show Top Ten,\" although Letterman would soon simply refer to it once again as the \"Top Ten List,\" with no repercussions.\n\nThe only significant modifications in the \"Late Show\" years have been the elimination of mentioning a \"home office\" (such as Wahoo, Nebraska), and the addition of a computer-animated introduction and closing as well as background graphics.\n\nThe entries are read by Letterman in reverse countdown order, and are accompanied by a drum roll performed by CBS Orchestra drummer Anton Fig. There are six montages: the pyramids, the athletes (usually used for a sports-themed top ten list), the taxi cabs, the water towers, the sewer covers, and, in time for the 2012 presidential campaign, the campaign trail. The conclusion of the list is then followed by a brief performance by the band, usually a pop song relating to the topic of the list in some way.\n\nOccasionally, the list is given by a guest presenter (such as John Malkovich reading \"Ten Things That Sound Creepy When Said by John Malkovich\" or Casey Kasem reading the recurring category \"Top Ten Numbers Between One and Ten\"). At times, the list has also been given by a series of presenters, with each providing one entry; for example, the list for \"Ten Things I've Always Wanted to Say to Dave\", was used for Letterman's final show in 2015 and included entries from Alec Baldwin, Barbara Walters, Steve Martin, Jerry Seinfeld, Jim Carrey, Chris Rock, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Peyton Manning, Tina Fey and Bill Murray.\n\nFour animated characters have recited a Top Ten list on the show: Homer Simpson (3 times), Peter Griffin, Stewie Griffin and Optimus Prime.\n\nPerhaps to break the monotony of daily list, the show will occasionally add a twist to the presentation, sometimes by altering the nature of the list itself. One notable example occurred on November 27, 2001. Introduced as \"Top Ten Ways Osama bin Laden Can Improve His Image,\" the list consisted of only one entry: \"#10. There's no way he can improve his image. He's a murdering, soul-less asshole.\"\n\nA common source of confusion regarding the Top Ten List is why the #1 entry is usually seen as the least funny. This even inspired the \"Late Show\" to run a pre-taped bit in 1998, humorously exploring the apparent mystery, and to mention it again on December 29, 1999, when the list \"Top Ten Phrases That Were Not Spoken This Millennium,\" included the #1 entry of, \"Why is the number one always so damn funny?\" Writer Bill Scheft confirmed this in a 2007 interview on \"Costas on the Radio\", stating that the writers use the three funniest entries on #10 (to start the list strong), #6, (which usually accompanies an on-screen slide change), and #2 (the last opportunity for a laugh before the completion of the bit).\n\nCities that were the supposed source of the Top 10 lists:\nOther home offices:\n\nDavid Letterman and the Late Show writers have released four volumes of Top Ten Lists through CBS book publisher, Pocket Books. The first two volumes were originally released in hardcover and later mass-market paperback editions while the latter two editions only had hardcover releases.\n\nFor nearly two decades each Top Ten list was packaged into a nationally syndicated radio feature, distributed by Westwood One for use the following morning. Following shows from which the list was omitted, or if Letterman was on vacation, the feature would utilize a list from the archives. The feature was often edited for time, and occasionally edited for content which may have been appropriate for late-night TV, but not morning radio.\n\nIn late 2013 Westwood One informed \"Top 10\" affiliates that it was ceasing distribution of the feature. The last Top 10 list for radio aired Friday, January 3, 2014. No other radio network picked up the feature for the rest of the TV show's run.\n\nThe television cartoon \"Garfield & Friends\" referenced the feature with an episode entitled \"Top Ten,\" where Garfield presents Top Ten lists on various topics ranging from \"How to Tell When Garfield is Full,\" and \"Why Jon Arbuckle Will Never Have a Date,\" to \"Why the House will Never Get Robbed.\" The Buddy Bears provide the accompanying music.\n\n"}
{"id": "31421386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31421386", "title": "Lincoln Library of Essential Information", "text": "Lincoln Library of Essential Information\n\nThe Lincoln Library of Essential Information also called The New Lincoln Library Encyclopedia is an abridged encyclopedia. The encyclopedia is \"named after Abraham Lincoln, whose inspiring example demonstrated the possibilities of self education.\"\n\nThe 44th edition, published in January 2011 containing 2100 pages is the latest edition.\n"}
{"id": "3908190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3908190", "title": "Mesoamerican creation myths", "text": "Mesoamerican creation myths\n\nMesoamerican creation myths are the collection of creation myths attributed to, or documented for, the various cultures and civilizations of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica and Mesoamerican literature.\n\nThe Maya gods included Kukulkán (also known by the K'iche' name Gukumatz and the Aztec name Quetzalcoatl) and Tepeu. The two were referred to as the Creators, the Forefathers or the Makers. According to the story, the two gods decided to preserve their legacy by creating an Earth-bound species looking like them. The first attempt was man made from mud, but Tepeu and Kukulkán found that the mud crumbled. The two gods summoned the other gods, and together they decided to make man from wood. However, since these men had no soul and soon lost loyalty to the creators, the gods destroyed them by rain. Finally, man was constructed from maize, the Mayans staple and sacred food. The deity Itzamna is credited as being the creator of the calendar along with creating writing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39394711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39394711", "title": "Minister of Safety &amp; Security v Van Duivenboden", "text": "Minister of Safety &amp; Security v Van Duivenboden\n\nIn Minister of Safety & Security v Van Duivenboden, an important case in the South African law of delict and South African criminal law, the Supreme Court of Appeal held that, while private citizens may be entitled to remain passive when the constitutional rights of other citizens are threatened, the State has a positive constitutional duty, imposed by section 7 of the Constitution, to act in protection of the rights in the Bill of Rights. The existence of this duty necessarily implies accountability. Where the state, represented by persons who perform its functions, acts in conflict with section 7, the norm of accountability must of necessity assume an important role in determining whether or not a legal duty ought to be recognized in any particular case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1375070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375070", "title": "Mono no aware", "text": "Mono no aware\n\n, literally \"the pathos of things\", and also translated as \"an empathy toward things\", or \"a sensitivity to ephemera\", is a Japanese term for the awareness of , or transience of things, and both a transient gentle sadness (or wistfulness) at their passing as well as a longer, deeper gentle sadness about this state being the reality of life.\n\nThe term comes from Heian period literature, but was picked up and used by 18th century Edo period Japanese cultural scholar Motoori Norinaga in his literary criticism of \"The Tale of Genji,\" and later to other seminal Japanese works including the \"Man'yōshū\". It became central to his philosophy of literature and eventually to Japanese cultural tradition.\n\nThe phrase is derived from the Japanese word , which means \"thing\", and , which was a Heian period expression of measured surprise (similar to \"ah\" or \"oh\"), translating roughly as \"pathos\", \"poignancy\", \"deep feeling\", \"sensitivity\", or \"awareness\". Thus, \"mono no aware\" has frequently been translated as \"the 'ahh-ness' of things\", life, and love. Awareness of the transience of all things heightens appreciation of their beauty, and evokes a gentle sadness at their passing. In his criticism of \"The Tale of Genji\" Motoori noted that \"mono no aware\" is the crucial emotion that moves readers. Its scope was not limited to Japanese literature, and became associated with Japanese cultural tradition (see also \"sakura\").\n\nNotable manga artists who use \"mono no aware\"–style storytelling include Hitoshi Ashinano, Kozue Amano, and Kaoru Mori. In anime, both \"Only Yesterday\" by Isao Takahata and \"Mai Mai Miracle\" by Sunao Katabuchi emphasize the passing of time in gentle notes and by presenting the main plot against a parallel one from the past. The Japanese director Yasujirō Ozu was well known for creating a sense of \"mono no aware\", frequently climaxing with a character very understatedly saying , after a familial and societal paradigm shift, such as a daughter being married off, against the backdrop of a swiftly changing Japan. Ozu has often expressed feelings by showing the faces of objects rather than the face of an actor. Some examples include two fathers contemplating the rocks in a \"dry landscape\" garden, and a mirror reflecting the absence of the daughter who has just left home after getting married. These images exemplified \"mono no aware\" as powerfully as the expression on the greatest actor's face. \n\nIn his book about courtly life in ancient Japan, \"The World of the Shining Prince\", Ivan Morris compares \"mono no aware\" to Virgil's term \"lacrimae rerum\", Latin for \"tears of things\".\n\nScience fiction author Ken Liu's short story, \"Mono no Aware\", won the 2013 Hugo Award for Best Short Story. Inspired by works like the science fiction manga \"Yokohama Kaidashi Kikō\", Liu sought to evoke an \"aesthetic primarily oriented towards creating in the reader an empathy towards the inevitable passing of all things\", and to acknowledge \"the importance of memory and continuity with the past\".\n\nNobel- and Booker Prize-winning British novelist Kazuo Ishiguro ends many of his novels without any sense of resolution. The issues his characters confront are buried in the past and remain unresolved. Thus Ishiguro ends many of his novels on a note of melancholic resignation. His characters accept their past and who they have become, typically discovering that this realization brings comfort and an ending to mental anguish. This can be seen as a literary reflection of the Japanese idea of \"mono no aware\".\n\nFilms like Alain Resnais's \"Hiroshima Mon Amour\", Shohei Imamura's \"Black Rain\" and Akira Kurosawa's \"I Live in Fear\" have all been associated with the term.\n\nOne of the most well-known examples of \"mono no aware\" in contemporary Japan is the traditional love of cherry blossoms, found throughout Japanese art and perpetuated by the large masses of people that travel annually to view and picnic under cherry trees. The trees are not considered to be of special value concerning their beauty in relation to other trees, such as apple or pear trees. Cherry tree blossoms are valued because of their transience, normally associated with the fact that the blossoms fall off the tree after only a week or so after first budding. It is the evanescence of the beauty of the cherry blossom that evokes the weary perspective of \"mono no aware\" in the viewer.\n\nMedia and written works:\n\nRelated terms with no direct translation in English:\n\n"}
{"id": "98616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98616", "title": "National Gallery", "text": "National Gallery\n\nThe National Gallery is an art museum in Trafalgar Square in the City of Westminster, in Central London. Founded in 1824, it houses a collection of over 2,300 paintings dating from the mid-13th century to 1900. \n\nThe Gallery is an exempt charity, and a non-departmental public body of the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Its collection belongs to the government on behalf of the British public, and entry to the main collection is free of charge. It is among the most visited art museums in the world, after the Louvre, the British Museum, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nUnlike comparable museums in continental Europe, the National Gallery was not formed by nationalising an existing royal or princely art collection. It came into being when the British government bought 38 paintings from the heirs of John Julius Angerstein in 1824. After that initial purchase the Gallery was shaped mainly by its early directors, notably Sir Charles Lock Eastlake, and by private donations, which today account for two-thirds of the collection. The collection is small compared with many European national galleries, but encyclopaedic in scope; most major developments in Western painting \"from Giotto to Cézanne\" are represented with important works. It used to be claimed that this was one of the few national galleries that had all its works on permanent exhibition, but this is no longer the case.\n\nThe present building, the third to house the National Gallery, was designed by William Wilkins from 1832 to 1838. Only the façade onto Trafalgar Square remains essentially unchanged from this time, as the building has been expanded piecemeal throughout its history. Wilkins's building was often criticised for the perceived weaknesses of its design and for its lack of space; the latter problem led to the establishment of the Tate Gallery for British art in 1897. \n\nThe Sainsbury Wing, an extension to the west by Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown, is a notable example of Postmodernist architecture in Britain. The current Director of the National Gallery is Gabriele Finaldi.\n\nThe Gallery was caught in controversy in 2018 over having some of the most expensive exhibition prices ever seen in London.\n\nThe late 18th century saw the nationalisation of royal or princely art collections across mainland Europe. The Bavarian royal collection (now in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich) opened to the public in 1779, that of the Medici in Florence around 1789 (as the Uffizi Gallery), and the Museum Français at the Louvre was formed out of the former French royal collection in 1793. Great Britain, however, did not emulate the continental model, and the British Royal Collection remains in the sovereign's possession today. In 1777 the British government had the opportunity to buy an art collection of international stature, when the descendants of Sir Robert Walpole put his collection up for sale. The MP John Wilkes argued for the government to buy this \"invaluable treasure\" and suggested that it be housed in \"a noble gallery... to be built in the spacious garden of the British Museum\" Nothing came of Wilkes's appeal and 20 years later the collection was bought in its entirety by Catherine the Great; it is now to be found in the State Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg.\n\nA plan to acquire 150 paintings from the Orléans collection, which had been brought to London for sale in 1798, also failed, despite the interest of both the King and the Prime Minister, Pitt the Younger. The twenty-five paintings from that collection now in the Gallery, including \"NG1\", arrived later by a variety of routes. In 1799 the dealer Noel Desenfans offered a ready-made national collection to the British government; he and his partner Sir Francis Bourgeois had assembled it for the king of Poland, before the Third Partition in 1795 abolished Polish independence. This offer was declined and Bourgeois bequeathed the collection to his old school, Dulwich College, on his death. The collection opened in 1814 in Britain's first purpose-built public gallery, the Dulwich Picture Gallery. The Scottish dealer William Buchanan and the collector Joseph Count Truchsess, both formed art collections expressly as the basis for a future national collection, but their respective offers (both made in 1803) were also declined.\n\nFollowing the Walpole sale many artists, including James Barry and John Flaxman, had made renewed calls for the establishment of a National Gallery, arguing that a British school of painting could only flourish if it had access to the canon of European painting. The British Institution, founded in 1805 by a group of aristocratic connoisseurs, attempted to address this situation. The members lent works to exhibitions that changed annually, while an art school was held in the summer months. However, as the paintings that were lent were often mediocre, some artists resented the Institution and saw it as a racket for the gentry to increase the sale prices of their Old Master paintings. One of the Institution's founding members, Sir George Beaumont, Bt, would eventually play a major role in the National Gallery's foundation by offering a gift of 16 paintings.\n\nIn 1823 another major art collection came on the market, which had been assembled by the recently deceased John Julius Angerstein. Angerstein was a Russian-born émigré banker based in London; his collection numbered 38 paintings, including works by Raphael and Hogarth's \"Marriage à-la-mode\" series. On 1 July 1823 George Agar Ellis, a Whig politician, proposed to the House of Commons that it purchase the collection. The appeal was given added impetus by Beaumont's offer, which came with two conditions: that the government buy Angerstein's collection, and that a suitable building was to be found. The unexpected repayment of a war debt by Austria finally moved the government to buy Angerstein's collection, for £57,000.\n\nThe National Gallery opened to the public on 10 May 1824, housed in Angerstein's former townhouse at No. 100 Pall Mall. Angerstein's paintings were joined in 1826 by those from Beaumont's collection, and in 1831 by the Reverend William Holwell Carr's bequest of 35 paintings. Initially the Keeper of Paintings, William Seguier, bore the burden of managing the Gallery, but in July 1824 some of this responsibility fell to the newly formed board of trustees.\n\nThe National Gallery at Pall Mall was frequently overcrowded and hot and its diminutive size in comparison with the Louvre in Paris was a cause of national embarrassment. But Agar Ellis, by then a trustee of the Gallery, appraised the site for being \"in the very gangway of London\"; this was seen as necessary for the Gallery to fulfil its social purpose. Subsidence in No. 100 caused the Gallery to move briefly to No. 105 Pall Mall, which the novelist Anthony Trollope described as a \"dingy, dull, narrow house, ill-adapted for the exhibition of the treasures it held\". This in turn had to be demolished for the opening of a road to Carlton House Terrace.\n\nIn 1832 construction began on a new building by William Wilkins on the site of the King's Mews in Charing Cross, in an area that had been transformed over the 1820s into Trafalgar Square. The location was a significant one, between the wealthy West End and poorer areas to the east. The argument that the collection could be accessed by people of all social classes outstripped other concerns, such as the pollution of central London or the failings of Wilkins's building, when the prospect of a move to South Kensington was mooted in the 1850s. According to the Parliamentary Commission of 1857, \"The \"existence\" of the pictures is not the end purpose of the collection, but the means only to give the people an ennobling enjoyment\".\n\nFrom 1837 until 1868 the Royal Academy was housed in the east wing of the building.\n\n15th- and 16th-century Italian paintings were at the core of the National Gallery and for the first 30 years of its existence the Trustees' independent acquisitions were mainly limited to works by High Renaissance masters. Their conservative tastes resulted in several missed opportunities and the management of the Gallery later fell into complete disarray, with no acquisitions being made between 1847 and 1850. A critical House of Commons report in 1851 called for the appointment of a director, whose authority would surpass that of the trustees. Many thought the position would go to the German art historian Gustav Friedrich Waagen, whom the Gallery had consulted on previous occasions about the lighting and display of the collections. However, the man preferred for the job by Queen Victoria, Prince Albert and the Prime Minister, Lord Russell, was the Keeper of Paintings at the Gallery, Sir Charles Lock Eastlake, who was President of the Royal Academy, played an essential role in the foundation of the Arundel Society, and knew most of London's leading art experts.\n\nThe new director’s taste was for the Northern and Early Italian Renaissance masters or \"primitives\", who had been neglected by the Gallery’s acquisitions policy but were slowly gaining recognition from connoisseurs. Eastlake made annual tours to the continent and to Italy in particular, seeking out appropriate paintings to buy for the Gallery. In all, he bought 148 pictures abroad and 46 in Britain, among the former such seminal works as Paolo Uccello’s \"Battle of San Romano\". Eastlake also amassed a private art collection during this period, consisting of paintings that he knew did not interest the trustees. His ultimate aim, however, was for them to enter the National Gallery; this was duly arranged upon his death by his friend and successor as director, William Boxall, and his widow Lady Eastlake.\n\nThe Gallery’s lack of space remained acute in this period. In 1845 a large bequest of British paintings was made by Robert Vernon; there was insufficient room in the Wilkins building so they were displayed first in Vernon’s town house at No. 50 Pall Mall and then at Marlborough House. The Gallery was even less well equipped for its next major bequest, as J. M. W. Turner was to bequeath the entire contents of his studio, excepting unfinished works, to the nation upon his death in 1851. The first 20 of these were displayed off-site in Marlborough House in 1856. Ralph Nicholson Wornum the Gallery's Keeper and Secretary, worked with John Ruskin to bring the bequest together. The stipulation in Turner's will that two of his paintings be displayed alongside works by Claude is still honoured in Room 15 of the Gallery, but his bequest has never been adequately displayed in its entirety; today the works are divided between Trafalgar Square and the Clore Gallery, a small purpose-built extension to the Tate completed in 1985.\n\nThe third director, Sir Frederick William Burton, laid the foundations of the collection of 18th-century art and made several outstanding purchases from English private collections. The acquisition in 1885 of two paintings from Blenheim Palace, Raphael's \"Ansidei Madonna\" and Van Dyck's \"Equestrian Portrait of Charles I\", with a record-setting grant of £87,500 from the Treasury, brought the Gallery's \"golden age of collecting\" to an end, as its annual purchase grant was suspended for several years thereafter. When the Gallery purchased Holbein's \"Ambassadors\" from the Earl of Radnor in 1890, it did so with the aid of private individuals for the first time in its history. In 1897 the formation of the National Gallery of British Art, known unofficially from early in its history as the Tate Gallery, allowed some British works to be moved off-site, following the precedent set by the Vernon collection and the Turner Bequest. Works by artists born after 1790 were moved to the new gallery on Millbank, which allowed Hogarth, Turner and Constable to remain in Trafalgar Square.\n\nThe agricultural crisis at the turn of the 20th century caused many aristocratic families to sell their paintings, but the British national collections were priced out of the market by American plutocrats. This prompted the foundation of the National Art Collections Fund, a society of subscribers dedicated to stemming the flow of artworks to the United States. Their first acquisition for the National Gallery was Velázquez's \"Rokeby Venus\" in 1906, followed by Holbein's \"Portrait of Christina of Denmark\" in 1909. However, despite the crisis in aristocratic fortunes, the following decade was one of several great bequests from private collectors. In 1909 the industrialist Dr Ludwig Mond gave 42 Italian renaissance paintings, including the \"Mond Crucifixion\" by Raphael, to the Gallery. Other bequests of note were those of George Salting in 1910, Austen Henry Layard in 1916 and Sir Hugh Lane in 1917; the last of these was one of the Gallery's more controversial bequests.\n\nIn a rare example of the political protest for which Trafalgar Square is famous occurring in the National Gallery, the \"Rokeby Venus\" was damaged on 10 March 1914 by Mary Richardson, a campaigner for women's suffrage, in protest against the arrest of Emmeline Pankhurst the previous day. Later that month another suffragette attacked five Bellinis, causing the Gallery to close until the start of the First World War, when the Women's Social and Political Union called for an end to violent acts drawing attention to their plight.\n\nThe reception of Impressionist art at the Gallery got off to an exceptionally stormy start. In 1906, Sir Hugh Lane promised 39 paintings, including Renoir's \"Umbrellas\", to the National Gallery on his death, unless a suitable building could be built in Dublin. Although eagerly accepted by the director Charles Holroyd, they were received with extreme hostility by the Trustees; Lord Redesdale wrote that \"I would as soon expect to hear of a Mormon service being conducted in St. Paul's Cathedral as to see the exhibition of the works of the modern French Art-rebels in the sacred precincts of Trafalgar Square\". Perhaps as a result of such attitudes, Lane amended his will with a codicil that the works should only go to Ireland, but crucially this was never witnessed. Lane died on board the \"RMS Lusitania\" in 1915, and a dispute began which was not resolved until 1959. Part of the collection is now on permanent loan to Dublin City Gallery (\"The Hugh Lane\") and other works rotate between London and Dublin every few years.\n\nA fund for the purchase of modern paintings established by Samuel Courtauld in 1923 bought Seurat's \"Bathers at Asnières\" and other notable modern works for the nation; in 1934 these transferred to the National Gallery from the Tate.\n\nShortly before the outbreak of World War II the paintings were evacuated to various locations in Wales, including Penrhyn Castle, the university colleges of Bangor and Aberystwyth. In 1940, during the Battle of France, a more secure home was sought, and there were discussions about moving the paintings to Canada. This idea was firmly rejected by Winston Churchill, who wrote in a telegram to the director Kenneth Clark, “bury them in caves or in cellars, but not a picture shall leave these islands”. Instead a slate quarry at Manod, near Blaenau Ffestiniog in North Wales, was requisitioned for the Gallery's use. In the seclusion afforded by the paintings' new location, the Keeper (and future director) Martin Davies began to compile scholarly catalogues on the collection, helped by the fact that the Gallery's library was also stored in the quarry. The move to Manod confirmed the importance of storing paintings at a constant temperature and humidity, something the Gallery's conservators had long suspected but had hitherto been unable to prove. This eventually resulted in the first air-conditioned gallery opening in 1949.\n\nFor the course of the war Myra Hess, and other musicians, such as Moura Lympany, gave daily lunch-time recitals in the empty building, to raise public morale at a time when every concert hall in London was closed. A number of art exhibitions were held at the Gallery as a complement to the recitals. The first of these was \"British Painting since Whistler\" in 1940, organised by Lillian Browse, who also mounted the major joint retrospective \"Exhibition of Paintings by Sir William Nicholson and Jack B. Yeats\" held from 1 January – 15 March 1942, which was seen by 10,518 visitors. Exhibitions of work by war artists, including Paul Nash, Henry Moore and Stanley Spencer, were also held; the War Artists' Advisory Committee had been set up by Clark in order \"to keep artists at work on any pretext\". In 1941 a request from an artist to see Rembrandt's \"Portrait of Margaretha de Geer\" (a new acquisition) resulted in the \"Picture of the Month\" scheme, in which a single painting was removed from Manod and exhibited to the general public in the National Gallery each month. The art critic Herbert Read, writing that year, called the National Gallery \"a defiant outpost of culture right in the middle of a bombed and shattered metropolis\". The paintings returned to Trafalgar Square in 1945.\n\nIn the post-war years, acquisitions have become increasingly difficult for the National Gallery as the prices for Old Masters – and even more so for the Impressionists and Post-impressionists – have risen beyond its means. Some of the Gallery's most significant purchases in this period would have been impossible without the major public appeals backing them, including \"The Virgin and Child with St. Anne and St. John the Baptist\" by Leonardo da Vinci (bought in 1962) and Titian’s \"Death of Actaeon\" (1972). The Gallery's purchase grant from the government was frozen in 1985, but later that year it received an endowment of £50 million from Sir Paul Getty, enabling many major purchases to be made. In April 1985 Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover and his brothers, the Hon. Simon Sainsbury and Sir Timothy Sainsbury, had made a donation that would enable the construction of the Sainsbury Wing.\n\nThe directorship of Neil MacGregor saw a major rehang at the Gallery, dispensing with the classification of paintings by national school that had been introduced by Eastlake. The new chronological hang sought to emphasise the interaction between cultures rather than fixed national characteristics, reflecting the change in art historical values since the 19th century. In other respects, however, Victorian tastes were rehabilitated: the building's interiors were no longer considered an embarrassment and were restored, and in 1999 the Gallery accepted a bequest of 26 Italian Baroque paintings from Sir Denis Mahon. Earlier in the 20th century many considered the Baroque to be beyond the pale: in 1945 the Gallery's trustees declined to buy a Guercino from Mahon's collection for £200. The same painting was valued at £4 million in 2003. Mahon's bequest was made on the condition that the Gallery would never deaccession any of its paintings or charge for admission.\nSince 1989, the gallery has run a scheme that gives a studio to contemporary artists to create work based on the permanent collection. They usually hold the position of associate artist for two years and are given an exhibition in the National Gallery at the end of their tenure.\n\nThe respective remits of the National and Tate Galleries, which had long been contested by the two institutions, were more clearly defined in 1996. 1900 was established as the cut-off point for paintings in the National Gallery, and in 1997 more than 60 post-1900 paintings from the collection were given to the Tate on a long-term loan, in return for works by Gauguin and others. However, future expansion of the National Gallery may yet see the return of 20th-century paintings to its walls.\n\nIn the 21st century there have been three large fundraising campaigns at the Gallery: in 2004, to buy Raphael’s \"Madonna of the Pinks\", in 2008, for Titian's \"Diana and Actaeon\", and in 2012, Titian's \"Diana and Callisto\". Both Titians were bought in tandem with the National Gallery of Scotland for £95 m. Both of these major works were sold from the famous collection of the Duke of Sutherland. The National Gallery is now largely priced out of the market for Old Master paintings and can only make such acquisitions with the backing of major public appeals; the departing director Charles Saumarez Smith expressed his frustration at this situation in 2007.\n\nIn 2014, the National Gallery was the subject of a documentary film by Frederick Wiseman. The film shows the gallery administration and staff at work, the conservation laboratory, docent tours, and the mounting of Leonardo Da Vinci, J. M. W. Turner, and Titian exhibitions in 2011–2012.\n\nThe first suggestion for a National Gallery on Trafalgar Square came from John Nash, who envisaged it on the site of the King's Mews, while a Parthenon-like building for the Royal Academy would occupy the centre of the square. Economic recession prevented this scheme from being built, but a competition for the Mews site was eventually held in 1831, for which Nash submitted a design with C. R. Cockerell as his co-architect. Nash's popularity was waning by this time, however, and the commission was awarded to William Wilkins, who was involved in the selection of the site and submitted some drawings at the last moment. Wilkins had hoped to build a \"Temple of the Arts, nurturing contemporary art through historical example\", but the commission was blighted by parsimony and compromise, and the resulting building was deemed a failure on almost all counts.\n\nThe site only allowed for the building to be one room deep, as a workhouse and a barracks lay immediately behind. To exacerbate matters, there was a public right of way through the site to these buildings, which accounts for the access porticoes on the eastern and western sides of the façade. These had to incorporate columns from the demolished Carlton House and their relative shortness result in an elevation that was deemed excessively low, and a far cry from the commanding focal point that was desired for the northern end of the Square. Also recycled are the sculptures on the façade, originally intended for Nash's Marble Arch but abandoned due to his financial problems. The eastern half of the building housed the Royal Academy until 1868, which further diminished the space afforded to the Gallery.\n\nThe building was the object of public ridicule before it had even been completed, as a version of the design had been leaked to the \"Literary Gazette\" in 1833.\nTwo years before completion, its infamous \"pepperpot\" elevation appeared on the frontispiece of \"Contrasts\" (1836), an influential tract by the Gothicist A. W. N. Pugin, as an example of the degeneracy of the classical style. Even William IV (in his last recorded utterance) thought the building a \"nasty little pokey hole\", while William Makepeace Thackeray called it \"a little gin shop of a building\". The twentieth-century architectural historian Sir John Summerson echoed these early criticisms when he compared the arrangement of a dome and two diminutive turrets on the roofline to \"the clock and vases on a mantelpiece, only less useful\". Sir Charles Barry's landscaping of Trafalgar Square, from 1840, included a north terrace so that the building would appear to be raised, thus addressing one of the points of complaint. Opinion on the building had mellowed considerably by 1984, when Prince Charles called the Wilkins façade a \"much-loved and elegant friend\", in contrast to a proposed extension. (\"See below\")\n\nThe first significant alteration made to the building was the single, long gallery added by Sir James Pennethorne in 1860–1. Ornately decorated in comparison with the rooms by Wilkins, it nonetheless worsened the cramped conditions inside the building as it was built over the original entrance hall. Unsurprisingly, several attempts were made either to completely remodel the National Gallery (as suggested by Sir Charles Barry in 1853), or to move it to more capacious premises in Kensington, where the air was also cleaner. In 1867 Barry's son Edward Middleton Barry proposed to replace the Wilkins building with a massive classical building with four domes. The scheme was a failure and contemporary critics denounced the exterior as \"a strong plagiarism upon St Paul's Cathedral\".\n\nWith the demolition of the workhouse, however, Barry was able to build the Gallery's first sequence of grand architectural spaces, from 1872 to 1876. Built to a polychrome Neo-Renaissance design, the Barry Rooms were arranged on a Greek cross-plan around a huge central octagon. Though it compensated for the underwhelming architecture of the Wilkins building, Barry's new wing was disliked by Gallery staff, who considered its monumental aspect to be in conflict with its function as exhibition space. Also, the decorative programme of the rooms did not take their intended contents into account; the ceiling of the 15th- and 16th-century Italian gallery, for instance, was inscribed with the names of British artists of the 19th century. But despite these failures, the Barry Rooms provided the Gallery with a strong axial groundplan. This was to be followed by all subsequent additions to the Gallery for a century, resulting in a building of clear symmetry.\n\nPennethorne's gallery was demolished for the next phase of building, a scheme by Sir John Taylor extending northwards of the main entrance. Its glass-domed entrance vestibule had painted ceiling decorations by the Crace family firm, who had also worked on the Barry Rooms. A fresco intended for the south wall was never realised, and that space is now taken up by Frederic, Lord Leighton’s painting of \"Cimabue's Celebrated Madonna carried in Procession through the Streets of Florence\" (1853–55), lent by the Royal Collection in the 1990s.\n\nLater additions to the west came more steadily but maintained the coherence of the building by mirroring Barry's cross-axis plan to the east. The use of dark marble for doorcases was also continued, giving the extensions a degree of internal consistency with the older rooms. The classical style was still in use at the National Gallery in 1929, when a Beaux-Arts style gallery was built, funded by the art dealer and Trustee Lord Duveen. However, it was not long before the 20th-century reaction against Victorian attitudes became manifest at the Gallery. From 1928 to 1952 the landing floors of Taylor's entrance hall were relaid with a new series of mosaics by Boris Anrep, who was friendly with the Bloomsbury Group. These mosaics can be read as a satire on 19th-century conventions for the decoration of public buildings, as typified by the Albert Memorial's \"Frieze of Parnassus\". The central mosaic depicting \"The Awakening of the Muses\" includes portraits of Virginia Woolf and Greta Garbo, subverting the high moral tone of its Victorian forebears. In place of Christianity's seven virtues, Anrep offered his own set of \"Modern Virtues\", including \"Humour\" and \"Open Mind\"; the allegorical figures are again portraits of his contemporaries, including Winston Churchill, Bertrand Russell and T. S. Eliot.\n\nIn the 20th century the Gallery's late Victorian interiors fell out of fashion. The Crace ceiling decorations in the entrance hall were not to the taste of the director Charles Holmes, and were obliterated by white paint.\nThe North Galleries, which opened to the public in 1975, marked the arrival of modernist architecture at the National Gallery. In the older rooms, the original classical details were effaced by partitions, daises and suspended ceilings, the aim being to create neutral settings which did not distract from contemplation of the paintings. But the Gallery's commitment to modernism was short-lived: by the 1980s Victorian style was no longer considered anathema, and a restoration programme began to restore the 19th- and early-20th-century interiors to their purported original appearance. This began with the refurbishment of the Barry Rooms in 1985–6. From 1996 to 1999 even the North Galleries, by then considered to \"lack a positive architectural character\" were remodelled in a classical style, albeit a simplified one.\n\nThe most important addition to the building in recent years has been the Sainsbury Wing, designed by the postmodernist architects Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown to house the collection of Renaissance paintings, and built in 1991. The building occupies the \"Hampton's site\" to the west of the main building, where a department store of the same name had stood until its destruction in the Blitz. The Gallery had long sought expansion into this space and in 1982 a competition was held to find a suitable architect; the shortlist included a radical high-tech proposal by Richard Rogers, among others. The design that won the most votes was by the firm Ahrends, Burton and Koralek, who then modified their proposal to include a tower, similar to that of the Rogers scheme. The proposal was dropped after the Prince of Wales compared the design to a \"monstrous carbuncle on the face of a much-loved and elegant friend\", The term \"monstrous carbuncle\", for a modern building that clashes with its surroundings, has since become commonplace.\n\nOne of the conditions of the 1982 competition was that the new wing had to include commercial offices as well as public gallery space. However, in 1985 it became possible to devote the extension entirely to the Gallery's uses, due to a donation of almost £50 million from Lord Sainsbury and his brothers Simon and Sir Tim Sainsbury. A closed competition was held, and the schemes produced were noticeably more restrained than in the earlier competition.\nIn contrast with the rich ornamentation of the main building, the galleries in the Sainsbury Wing are pared-down and intimate, to suit the smaller scale of many of the paintings. The main inspirations for these rooms are Sir John Soane's toplit galleries for the Dulwich Picture Gallery and the church interiors of Filippo Brunelleschi (the stone dressing is in \"pietra serena\", the grey stone local to Florence). The northernmost galleries align with Barry's central axis, so that there is a single vista down the whole length of the Gallery. This axis is exaggerated by the use of false perspective, as the columns flanking each opening gradually diminish in size until the visitor reaches the focal point (as of 2009), an altarpiece by Cima of \"The Incredulity of St Thomas\". Venturi's postmodernist approach to architecture is in full evidence at the Sainsbury Wing, with its stylistic quotations from buildings as disparate as the clubhouses on Pall Mall, the Scala Regia in the Vatican, Victorian warehouses and Ancient Egyptian temples.\n\nFollowing the pedestrianisation of Trafalgar Square, the Gallery is currently engaged in a masterplan to convert the vacated office space on the ground floor into public space. The plan will also fill in disused courtyards and make use of land acquired from the adjoining National Portrait Gallery in St Martin's Place, which it gave to the National Gallery in exchange for land for its 2000 extension. The first phase, the East Wing Project designed by Jeremy Dixon and Edward Jones, opened to the public in 2004. This provided a new ground level entrance from Trafalgar Square, named in honour of Sir Paul Getty. The main entrance was also refurbished, and reopened in September 2005. Possible future projects include a \"West Wing Project\" roughly symmetrical with the East Wing Project, which would provide a future ground level entrance, and the public opening of some small rooms at the far eastern end of the building acquired as part of the swap with the National Portrait Gallery. This might include a new public staircase in the bow on the eastern façade. No timetable has been announced for these additional projects.\n\nOne of the most persistent criticisms of the National Gallery, apart from those who criticise inadequacies of the building, has been of its conservation policy. The Gallery's detractors accused it of having had an over-zealous approach to restoration. The first cleaning operation at the National Gallery began in 1844 after Eastlake's appointment as Keeper, and was the subject of attacks in the press after the first three paintings to receive the treatment – a Rubens, a Cuyp and a Velázquez – were unveiled to the public in 1846. The Gallery's most virulent critic was J. Morris Moore, who wrote a series of letters to \"The Times\" under the pseudonym \"Verax\" savaging the institution's cleanings. While an 1853 Parliamentary Select Committee set up to investigate the matter cleared the Gallery of any wrongdoing, criticism of its methods has been erupting sporadically ever since from some in the art establishment.\n\nThe last major outcry against the use of radical conservation techniques at the National Gallery was seventy-one years ago in the immediate post-war years, following a restoration campaign by Chief Restorer Helmut Ruhemann while the paintings were in Manod Quarry. When the cleaned pictures were exhibited to the public in 1946 there followed a furore with parallels to that of a century earlier. The principal criticism was that the extensive removal of varnish, which was used in the 19th century to protect the surface of paintings but which darkened and discoloured them with time, may have resulted in the loss of \"harmonising\" glazes added to the paintings by the artists themselves. The opposition to Ruhemann's techniques was led by Ernst Gombrich, a professor at the Warburg Institute who in later correspondence with a restorer described being treated with \"offensive superciliousness\" by the National Gallery. A 1947 commission concluded that no damage had been done in the recent cleanings.\nThe National Gallery has also been criticised for misattributing paintings. Kenneth Clark's decision in 1939 to relabel a group of paintings by anonymous artists of the Venetian school as works by Giorgione (a crowd-pulling artist due to the rarity of his paintings) made him unpopular with his staff. More recently, the attribution of a 17th-century painting of \"Samson and Delilah\" (bought in 1980) to Rubens has been contested by a group of art historians, who believe that the National Gallery has not admitted the mistake to avoid embarrassing those who were involved in the purchase, many of whom still work for the Gallery.\n\nIn February 2014, \"Men of the Docks\", by U.S. artist George Bellows, was bought by the National Gallery for $25.5 million (£15.6 million). It was the first major American painting to be purchased by the Gallery. Director Nicholas Penny termed the painting a new direction for the Gallery – a non-European painting in a European style. Its sale was controversial in the U.S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5629066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5629066", "title": "Nomina sacra", "text": "Nomina sacra\n\nIn Christian scribal practice, nomina sacra (singular: nomen sacrum from Latin sacred name) is the abbreviation of several frequently occurring divine names or titles, especially in Greek manuscripts of Holy Scripture. A nomen sacrum consists of two or more letters from the original word spanned by an overline.\n\nMetzger lists 15 such expressions from Greek papyri: the Greek counterparts of \"God\", \"Lord\", \"Jesus\", \"Christ\", \"Son\", \"Spirit\", \"David\", \"Cross\", \"Mother\", \"Father\", \"Israel\", \"Savior\", \"Man\", \"Jerusalem\", and \"Heaven\". These \"nomina sacra\" are all found in Greek manuscripts of the 3rd century and earlier, except \"Mother\", which appears in the 4th.\n\n\"Nomina sacra\" also occur in some form in Latin, Coptic, Armenian (indicated by the \"pativ\"), Gothic, Old Nubian, and Cyrillic (indicated by the \"titlo\").\n\n\"Nomina sacra\" are consistently observed in even the earliest extant Christian writings, along with the codex form rather than the roll, implying that when these were written, in approximately the second century, the practice had already been established for some time. However, it is not known precisely when and how the \"nomina sacra\" first arose.\n\nThe initial system of \"nomina sacra\" apparently consisted of just four or five words, called \"nomina divina\": the Greek words for \"Jesus\", \"Christ\", \"Lord\", \"God\", and possibly \"Spirit\". The practice quickly expanded to a number of other words regarded as sacred.\n\nIn the system of \"nomina sacra\" that came to prevail, abbreviation is by \"contraction\", meaning that the first and last letter (at least) of each word are used. In a few early cases, an alternate practice is seen of abbreviation by \"suspension\", meaning that the initial two letters (at least) of the word are used; e.g., the opening verses of Revelation in write (\"Jesus Christ\") as . Contraction, however, offered the practical advantage of indicating the case of the abbreviated noun.\n\nIt is evident that the use of \"nomina sacra\" was an act of reverence rather than a purely practical space-saving device, as they were employed even where well-established abbreviations of far more frequent words such as \"and\" were avoided, and the \"nomen sacrum\" itself was written with generous spacing. Furthermore, early scribes often distinguished between mundane and sacred occurrences of the same word, e.g. a \"spirit\" vs. the \"Spirit\", and applied \"nomina sacra\" only to the latter (at times necessarily revealing an exegetical choice), although later scribes would mechanically abbreviate all occurrences.\n\nScholars have advanced a number of theories on the origin of the \"nomina sacra\". An obvious parallel that likely offered some inspiration is the Jewish practice of writing the divine name of God, commonly rendered as Jehovah or Yahweh in English, as the Hebrew tetragrammaton (transliterated as YHWH) even in Greek Scriptures. The Septuagint manuscript LXX P.Oxy.VII.1007 uses two Paleo-Hebrew \"yodh's\" with a horizontal line through them for YHWH (an abbreviated form of the Name of God translitered as ). Pavlos Vasileiadis, a Doctor of Theology at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, quoting Gerard Gertoux, states that \"the subsequent use of the contracted forms of the original nomina sacra κ[ύριο]ς [()] and θ[εό]ς [()] within Christian manuscripts probably reflects the Jewish practice of replacing the Tetragrammaton by י[הו]ה.\", transliterated in koine Greek as ιά.\n\nGreek culture also employed a number of ways of abbreviating even proper names, though none in quite the same form as the \"nomina sacra\". Inspiration for the contracted forms (using the first and last letter) has also been seen in Revelation, where Jesus speaks of himself as \"the beginning and the end\" and \"the first and the last\" as well \"the Alpha and the Omega\". Greek numerals have been suggested as the origin of the overline spanning the whole \"nomen sacrum\", with the suspended form being simply the ordinary way of writing \"eighteen\", for example.\n\n"}
{"id": "39241153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39241153", "title": "Parker Society", "text": "Parker Society\n\nThe Parker Society was a text publication society set up in 1841 to produce editions of the works of the early Protestant writers of the English Reformation. It was supported by both the High Church and evangelical wings of the Church of England, and was established in reaction against the Tractarian movement of the 1830s. Its Council was dominated by evangelicals, but not to the exclusion of other views. \n\nIn response, a group of Tractarians founded the Library of Anglo-Catholic Theology.\n\nThe Society took its name from Matthew Parker (1504–1575), Archbishop of Canterbury from 1559 to 1575, and a prominent collector of manuscripts. It published four or five volumes a year, to 1853.\n\nA \"General Index to the Publications of the Parker Society\" was published in 1855 by Henry Gough; the publications are listed on pp. vii–viii.\n"}
{"id": "14948576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14948576", "title": "Peter Gilliver", "text": "Peter Gilliver\n\nPeter Gilliver (born 14 June 1964) is a lexicographer and Associate Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary.\n\nGilliver's parents were both linguists. He attended Barnard Castle School, and has a degree in Mathematics from Jesus College, Cambridge, and a qualification in Information Science from Liverpool.\n\nAs of 2013, he was responsible for the largest three or four entries in the current electronic revision, including the largest (that for \"run\", which took him over 9 months and has 645 meanings for the verb form alone).\n\nIn 2016 Gilliver published a history of the OED, which took most of the previous decade to write.\n\nHe and his partner sing in various choirs, including the Oxford Bach Choir (which they helped to administer for some years), and Fiori Musicali.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22131658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22131658", "title": "Prentis House", "text": "Prentis House\n\nThe Prentis House, built in 1773 in Hadley, Massachusetts by the Dickinson family, is typical of the indigenous style of Saltbox architecture that developed in New England during the Colonial period and remained in use, particularly in rural areas, through the Revolution. The Prentis House was relocated to the Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont, and furnished with 17th and 18th century period furniture and decorative arts.\n\nSaltbox architecture developed as builders devised a simple way to enlarge their European-inspired Capen Houses built during the early years of colonization. The term “Saltbox” refers to the structure’s characteristic asymmetrical roofline that extends on one side from the peak of the roof to the first floor thus resembling the profile of an early wooden salt container. Builders would typically position a saltbox structure so that the extended roof faced north diminishing the impact of winter winds while the façade windows faced south collecting warmth from the sun. \n\nTypical of the style, Prentis House is built around a massive central chimney, which supports much of the building’s weight. Seven flues meet on the second floor in a huge beehive-shaped formation before the chimney narrows again at the roofline.\n\n"}
{"id": "20018380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20018380", "title": "R.L. Polk &amp; Company", "text": "R.L. Polk &amp; Company\n\nR. L. Polk & Company is a provider of automotive information and marketing solutions to the automotive industry, insurance companies, and related businesses.\n\nPolk was acquired by IHS Inc. on July 15, 2013 and is based in Southfield, Michigan with operations in several countries, including the United States, Canada, Germany, United Kingdom, France, Japan, China and Australia.\n\nR. L. Polk & Company was founded by Ralph Lane Polk in 1870 in Detroit, MI as a publisher of business directories. In 1872, the company first published a City Directory, for Evansville, Indiana, plus a listing of post offices in nine states. Additional directories followed in the ensuing years as the business grew. claiming 1000 directories by 1960. Affiliates included the Polk-Husted Directory Co. of Oakland, California. In addition to city directories, the company published bank directories.\n\nIn 1907, R.L. Polk & Co. was publishing a \"Gazetteer\" Business directory for the State of Michigan and Windsor and Walkerville Ontario, as well as gazetteers for Alaska, Arkansas, California, Idaho, Illinois, Oklahoma, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Missouri, Nevada, Oregon, Washington State, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia, and Wisconsin.\n\nIn 1921, a conversation between Ralph Lane Polk II and Alfred P. Sloan (who later became president of General Motors) helped fuel R. L. Polk & Company's entry into the automotive industry. During the conversation, Sloan asked Polk to impartially tabulate and publish statistical information on cars and trucks in operation. R.L. Polk & Company launched its motor vehicle statistical operations in 1922, when the first car registration reports were published. In 1922, R.L. Polk & Co. published its first Passenger Car Registration Report, covering 58 makes and accounting for 9.2 million passenger automobiles on America's highways.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1958, the company pioneered the use of electronic punch card tabulating equipment. In 1956, Polk's reporting services included monthly statistics on boats, business aircraft, motorcycles, commercial trailers, and recreational vehicles. In 1976, the National Vehicle Population Profile (NVPP) was introduced.\n\nIn 1993, Polk combined their Canadian activities with Blackburn Marketing Services to form Blackburn / Polk Marketing Services Inc. (BPMSI). Polk also acquired a 35% interest in CARFAX from Blackburn Marketing Services. In 1995, Polk entered an alliance with Marketing Systems GmBH and acquired a substantial minority interest in The Ultimate Perspective (T.U.P).\n\nIn 1996, Polk completed acquisition of the Blackburn / Polk operations and renamed it Polk Canada Marketing Services Inc. (PCMSI). This acquisition unified and strengthened their North American operations in Polk's strategy to be a global information services provider. They also announced their first Automotive Loyalty Award winners.\n\nIn 1997, Polk acquired the MSS division of Automatic Data Processing's European Operations.\n\nIn 1999, Polk completed acquisition of CARFAX and sold Advertising Unlimited, Inc. to Norwood Promotional Products.\n\nIn 2000, Polk sells its Consumer Information Solutions (CIS) business units Direct Marketing, Data Information Services / Polk Verity, City Directory, and the Compusearch and Prospects Unlimited units of Polk Canada to Equifax.\n\nPolk launches Garage Predictors and Polk Canada, Inc. announces Polk Canada Net. Polk also completes its acquisition of Marketing Systems Group.\n\nRalph Lane Polk II is inducted into the prestigious Automotive Hall of Fame (AHF) located in Dearborn, Michigan in 2001. Stephen R. Polk is also a part of the AHF as a director and R. L. Polk & Co. is also considered a Sapphire Level Supporter.\n\nIn 2002, Polk launches the Polk Vehicle Lifecycle System and the Polk Cross Sell is introduced.\n\nAlso in 2002, Ralph Lane Polk II is inducted into The Direct Marketing Association (DMA) Hall of Fame, the highest professional honor in direct and interactive marketing. DMA inducts into \"The Hall of Fame\" as many as four individuals each year for the significant impact these leaders have had on the growth of the direct and interactive process.\n\nIn 2003, PolkInsight is launched. Polk Total Market Predictor (Polk TMP) is also introduced.\n\nIn 2004, R. L. Polk & Company launches Polk Cross Sell Report and RLPTechnologies, a new wholly owned subsidiary, is established. Also, The Software Engineering Institute (SEI) awards R. L. Polk & Company with a Level II Capability Maturity Model Integrated (CMMI) rating.\n\nIn 2005, R. L. Polk & Company introduces the Polk Inventory Efficiency Award. The Polk Inventory Efficiency Award recognizes and rewards outstanding aftermarket companies for process improvements relative to inventory efficiency.\n\nIn 2007, R. L. Polk & Co. acquire a majority interest in ROADTODATA, a rapidly growing supplier of automotive price and specifications data.\n\nIn 2010, R. L. Polk & Company partners with Citytwist.\n\nIn 2013, IHS, Inc announced a $1.4B purchase of R.L. Polk.\n\nThe company's business-to-business marketing services include PolkInsight, the National Vehicle Population Profile (NVPP), Blackburn / Polk Marketing Services Inc. (BPMSI), Polk Dealer Marketing Manager, The Ultimate Perspective (T.U.P), Polk Canada Net, Polk Vehicle Lifecycle System, Polk CrossSell Reports, and Polk Total Market Predictor (Polk TMP).\n\nThe Polk Company announced on August 2, 1999 that it had completed acquisition of Carfax. Polk had previously owned 35 percent of Carfax, in partnership with the Blackburn Group, Inc., of London, Ontario, Canada, and has now acquired the remaining 65 percent. Carfax compiles vehicle histories from various sources, with about 75 percent of the information coming from Polk data. Using the vehicle identification number (VIN), each history provides potential buyers with all available facts about a used car being considered for purchase. This may include original use of the vehicle odometer records, number of owners, and other items that might affect a purchase decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32001311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32001311", "title": "Rebar detailing", "text": "Rebar detailing\n\nRebar detailing is the discipline of preparing 'shop/placing' drawings or shop drawings of steel reinforcement for construction.\n\nArchitect/Engineers(A/E) prepare 'Design Drawings' that develop required strengths by applying rebar size, spacing, location, and lap of steel.\n\nBy contrast, 'Shop/Placing Drawings' apply the intent of the 'Design drawings' for the ironworker. They call out the quantity, description, placement, bending shapes with dimensions and laps of the reinforcing steel. Various applications are used to produce bar bending schedules which can be directly fed into CNC machines that cuts and bends the rebar to the desired shapes.\n\nThe fabrication of the bars are scheduled and the placing/fixing sequence indicated, adding the elements required to support those bars during construction.\n\n'Shop/Placing Drawings' are submitted to the A/E for review of compliance with design drawings before construction can proceed. These drawings must be detailed using the ACI & CRSI Specifications (United States), ACI & RSIC Specifications (Canada).\n\nRebar detailing is usually assigned to Rebar Fabricators in-house teams, and rebar detailing companies. The great majority of rebar detailing companies are stationed in The Middle East and India. However there are a few Rebar Detailers in the United States, but not many due to the low cost of having the detailing done overseas. The wages for a Rebar Detailer in the US and Canada is from $30,000 to $90,000 per year but the large fabricators will send it overseas where it will only cost them between $3,000 and $7,000 per year because of the difference in the money value.\n"}
{"id": "28313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28313", "title": "SCSI", "text": "SCSI\n\nSmall Computer System Interface (SCSI, ) is a set of standards for physically connecting and transferring data between computers and peripheral devices. The SCSI standards define commands, protocols, electrical, optical and logical interfaces. SCSI is most commonly used for hard disk drives and tape drives, but it can connect a wide range of other devices, including scanners and CD drives, although not all controllers can handle all devices. The SCSI standard defines command sets for specific peripheral device types; the presence of \"unknown\" as one of these types means that in theory it can be used as an interface to almost any device, but the standard is highly pragmatic and addressed toward commercial requirements.\n\nThe ancestral SCSI standard, X3.131-1986, generally referred to as SCSI-1, was published by the X3T9 technical committee of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in 1986. SCSI-2 was published in August 1990 as X3.T9.2/86-109, with further revisions in 1994 and subsequent adoption of a multitude of interfaces. Further refinements have resulted in improvements in performance and support for ever-increasing storage data capacity.\n\nSCSI is derived from \"SASI\", the \"Shugart Associates System Interface\", developed circa 1978 and publicly disclosed in 1981. Larry Boucher is considered to be the \"father\" of SASI and ultimately SCSI due to his pioneering work first at Shugart Associates and then at Adaptec.\n\nA SASI controller provided a bridge between a hard disk drive's low-level interface and a host computer, which needed to read blocks of data. SASI controller boards were typically the size of a hard disk drive and were usually physically mounted to the drive's chassis. SASI, which was used in mini- and early microcomputers, defined the interface as using a 50-pin flat ribbon connector which was adopted as the SCSI-1 connector. SASI is a fully compliant subset of SCSI-1 so that many, if not all, of the then-existing SASI controllers were SCSI-1 compatible.\n\nUntil at least February 1982, ANSI developed the specification as \"SASI\" and \"Shugart Associates System Interface;\" however, the committee documenting the standard would not allow it to be named after a company. Almost a full day was devoted to agreeing to name the standard \"Small Computer System Interface\", which Boucher intended to be pronounced \"sexy\", but ENDL's Dal Allan pronounced the new acronym as \"scuzzy\" and that stuck.\n\nA number of companies such as NCR Corporation, Adaptec and Optimem were early supporters of SCSI. The NCR facility in Wichita, Kansas is widely thought to have developed the industry's first SCSI controller chip; it worked the first time.\n\nThe \"small\" reference in \"small computer system interface\" is historical; since the mid-1990s, SCSI has been available on even the largest of computer systems.\n\nSince its standardization in 1986, SCSI has been commonly used in the Amiga, Atari, Apple Macintosh and Sun Microsystems (now part of Oracle Corporation) computer lines and PC server systems. Apple started using the less-expensive parallel ATA (PATA, also known as \"IDE\") for its low-end machines with the Macintosh Quadra 630 in 1994, and added it to its high-end desktops starting with the Power Macintosh G3 in 1997. Apple dropped on-board SCSI completely in favor of IDE and FireWire with the (Blue & White) Power Mac G3 in 1999, while still offering a PCI SCSI host adapter as an option on up to the Power Macintosh G4 (AGP Graphics) models. Sun switched its lower-end range to Serial ATA (SATA). Commodore included SCSI on the Amiga 3000/3000T systems and it was an add-on to previous Amiga 500/2000 models. Starting with the Amiga 600/1200/4000 systems Commodore switched to the IDE interface. Atari included SCSI as standard in its Atari MEGA STE, Atari TT and Atari Falcon computer models. SCSI has never been popular in the low-priced IBM PC world, owing to the lower cost and adequate performance of ATA hard disk standard. However, SCSI drives and even SCSI RAIDs became common in PC workstations for video or audio production.\n\nRecent physical versions of SCSISerial Attached SCSI (SAS), SCSI-over-Fibre Channel Protocol (FCP), and USB Attached SCSI (UAS)break from the traditional parallel SCSI bus and perform data transfer via serial communications using point-to-point links. Although much of the SCSI documentation talks about the parallel interface, all modern development efforts use serial interfaces. Serial interfaces have a number of advantages over parallel SCSI, including higher data rates, simplified cabling, longer reach, improved fault isolation and full-duplex capability. The primary reason for the shift to serial interfaces is the clock skew issue of high speed parallel interfaces, which makes the faster variants of parallel SCSI susceptible to problems caused by cabling and termination.\n\nThe non-physical iSCSI preserves the basic SCSI paradigm, especially the command set, almost unchanged, through embedding of SCSI-3 over TCP/IP. Therefore, iSCSI uses \"logical connections\" instead of physical links and can run on top of any network supporting IP. The actual physical links are realized on lower network layers, independently from iSCSI. Predominantly, Ethernet is used which is also of serial nature.\n\nSCSI is popular on high-performance workstations, servers, and storage appliances. Almost all RAID subsystems on servers have used some kind of SCSI hard disk drives for decades (initially Parallel SCSI, recently SAS and Fibre Channel), though a number of manufacturers offer SATA-based RAID subsystems as a cheaper option. Moreover, SAS offers compatibility with SATA devices, creating a much broader range of options for RAID subsystems together with the existence of nearline SAS (NL-SAS) drives. Instead of SCSI, modern desktop computers and notebooks typically use SATA interfaces for internal hard disk drives, with M.2 and PCIe gaining popularity as SATA can bottleneck modern solid-state drives.\n\nSCSI is available in a variety of interfaces. The first was parallel SCSI (also called SCSI Parallel Interface or SPI), which uses a parallel bus design. Since 2005, SPI was gradually replaced by Serial Attached SCSI (SAS), which uses a serial design but retains other aspects of the technology. Many other interfaces which do not rely on complete SCSI standards still implement the SCSI command protocol; others drop physical implementation entirely while retaining the SCSI architectural model. iSCSI, for example, uses TCP/IP as a transport mechanism, which is most often transported over Gigabit Ethernet or faster network links.\n\nSCSI interfaces have often been included on computers from various manufacturers for use under Microsoft Windows, classic Mac OS, Unix, Commodore Amiga and Linux operating systems, either implemented on the motherboard or by the means of plug-in adaptors. With the advent of SAS and SATA drives, provision for parallel SCSI on motherboards was discontinued.\n\nInitially, the \"SCSI Parallel Interface\" (SPI) was the only interface using the SCSI protocol. Its standardization started as a single-ended 8-bit bus in 1986, transferring up to 5 MB/s, and evolved into a low-voltage differential 16-bit bus capable of up to 320 MB/s. The last SPI-5 standard from 2003 also defined a 640 MB/s speed which failed to be realized.\n\nParallel SCSI specifications include several synchronous transfer modes for the parallel cable, and an asynchronous mode. The asynchronous mode is a classic request/acknowledge protocol, which allows systems with a slow bus or simple systems to also use SCSI devices. Faster synchronous modes are used more frequently.\n\nInternal parallel SCSI cables are usually ribbons, with two or more 50–, 68–, or 80–pin connectors attached. External cables are typically shielded (but may not be), with 50– or 68–pin connectors at each end, depending upon the specific SCSI bus width supported. The 80–pin Single Connector Attachment (SCA) is typically used for hot-pluggable devices\n\nFibre Channel can be used to transport SCSI information units, as defined by the Fibre Channel Protocol for SCSI (FCP). These connections are hot-pluggable and are usually implemented with optical fiber.\n\nSerial attached SCSI (SAS) uses a modified Serial ATA data and power cable.\n\niSCSI (Internet Small Computer System Interface) usually uses Ethernet connectors and cables as its physical transport, but can run over any physical transport capable of transporting IP.\n\nThe SCSI RDMA Protocol (SRP) is a protocol that specifies how to transport SCSI commands over a reliable RDMA connection. This protocol can run over any RDMA-capable physical transport, e.g. InfiniBand or Ethernet when using RoCE or iWARP.\n\nUSB Attached SCSI allows SCSI devices to use the Universal Serial Bus.\n\nThe Automation/Drive Interface − Transport Protocol (ADT) is used to connect removable media devices, such as tape drives, with the controllers of the libraries (automation devices) in which they are installed. The ADI standard specifies the use of RS-422 for the physical connections. The second-generation ADT-2 standard defines iADT, use of the ADT protocol over IP (Internet Protocol) connections, such as over Ethernet. The Automation/Drive Interface − Commands standards (ADC, ADC-2, and ADC-3) define SCSI commands for these installations.\n\nIn addition to many different hardware implementations, the SCSI standards also include an extensive set of command definitions. The SCSI command architecture was originally defined for parallel SCSI buses but has been carried forward with minimal change for use with iSCSI and serial SCSI. Other technologies which use the SCSI command set include the ATA Packet Interface, USB Mass Storage class and FireWire SBP-2.\n\nIn SCSI terminology, communication takes place between an initiator and a target. The initiator sends a command to the target, which then responds. SCSI commands are sent in a Command Descriptor Block (CDB). The CDB consists of a one byte operation code followed by five or more bytes containing command-specific parameters.\n\nAt the end of the command sequence, the target returns a status code byte, such as 00h for success, 02h for an error (called a Check Condition), or 08h for busy. When the target returns a Check Condition in response to a command, the initiator usually then issues a SCSI Request Sense command in order to obtain a key code qualifier (KCQ) from the target. The Check Condition and Request Sense sequence involves a special SCSI protocol called a Contingent Allegiance Condition.\n\nThere are four categories of SCSI commands: N (non-data), W (writing data from initiator to target), R (reading data), and B (bidirectional). There are about 60 different SCSI commands in total, with the most commonly used being:\n\n\nEach device on the SCSI bus is assigned a unique SCSI identification number or ID. Devices may encompass multiple logical units, which are addressed by logical unit number (LUN). Simple devices have just one LUN, more complex devices may have multiple LUNs.\n\nA \"direct access\" (i.e. disk type) storage device consists of a number of logical blocks, addressed by Logical Block Address (LBA). A typical LBA equates to 512 bytes of storage. The usage of LBAs has evolved over time and so four different command variants are provided for reading and writing data. The Read(6) and Write(6) commands contain a 21-bit LBA address. The Read(10), Read(12), Read Long, Write(10), Write(12), and Write Long commands all contain a 32-bit LBA address plus various other parameter options.\n\nThe capacity of a \"sequential access\" (i.e. tape-type) device is not specified because it depends, amongst other things, on the length of the tape, which is not identified in a machine-readable way. Read and write operations on a sequential access device begin at the current tape position, not at a specific LBA. The block size on sequential access devices can either be fixed or variable, depending on the specific device. Tape devices such as half-inch 9-track tape, DDS (4 mm tapes physically similar to DAT), Exabyte, etc., support variable block sizes.\n\nOn a parallel SCSI bus, a device (e.g. host adapter, disk drive) is identified by a \"SCSI ID\", which is a number in the range 0–7 on a narrow bus and in the range 0–15 on a wide bus. On earlier models a physical jumper or switch controls the SCSI ID of the initiator (host adapter). On modern host adapters (since about 1997), doing I/O to the adapter sets the SCSI ID; for example, the adapter often contains a BIOS program that runs when the computer boots up and that program has menus that let the operator choose the SCSI ID of the host adapter. Alternatively, the host adapter may come with software that must be installed on the host computer to configure the SCSI ID. The traditional SCSI ID for a host adapter is 7, as that ID has the highest priority during bus arbitration (even on a 16 bit bus).\n\nThe SCSI ID of a device in a drive enclosure that has a back plane is set either by jumpers or by the slot in the enclosure the device is installed into, depending on the model of the enclosure. In the latter case, each slot on the enclosure's back plane delivers control signals to the drive to select a unique SCSI ID. A SCSI enclosure without a back plane often has a switch for each drive to choose the drive's SCSI ID. The enclosure is packaged with connectors that must be plugged into the drive where the jumpers are typically located; the switch emulates the necessary jumpers. While there is no standard that makes this work, drive designers typically set up their jumper headers in a consistent format that matches the way that these switches implement.\n\nSetting the bootable (or first) hard disk to SCSI ID 0 is an accepted IT community recommendation. SCSI ID 2 is usually set aside for the floppy disk drive while SCSI ID 3 is typically for a CD-ROM drive.\n\nNote that a SCSI target device (which can be called a \"physical unit\") is often divided into smaller \"logical units\". For example, a high-end disk subsystem may be a single SCSI device but contain dozens of individual disk drives, each of which is a logical unit. Further, a RAID array may be a single SCSI device, but may contain many logical units, each of which is a \"virtual\" disk—a stripe set or mirror set constructed from portions of real disk drives. The SCSI ID, WWN, etc. in this case identifies the whole subsystem, and a second number, the logical unit number (LUN) identifies a disk device (real or virtual) within the subsystem.\n\nIt is quite common, though incorrect, to refer to the logical unit itself as a \"LUN\". Accordingly, the actual LUN may be called a \"LUN number\" or \"LUN id\".\n\nIn modern SCSI transport protocols, there is an automated process for the \"discovery\" of the IDs. The SSA initiator (normally the host computer through the 'host adaptor') \"walk the loop\" to determine what devices are connected and then assigns each one a 7-bit \"hop-count\" value. Fibre Channel – Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL) initiators use the LIP (Loop Initialization Protocol) to interrogate each device port for its WWN (World Wide Name). For iSCSI, because of the unlimited scope of the (IP) network, the process is quite complicated. These discovery processes occur at power-on/initialization time and also if the bus topology changes later, for example if an extra device is added.\n\nWhile all SCSI controllers can work with read/write storage devices, i.e. disk and tape, some will not work with some other device types; older controllers are likely to be more limited, sometimes by their driver software, and more Device Types were added as SCSI evolved. Even CD-ROMs are not handled by all controllers. Device Type is a 5-bit field reported by a SCSI Inquiry Command; defined SCSI Peripheral Device Types include, in addition to many varieties of storage device, printer, scanner, communications device, and a catch-all \"processor\" type for devices not otherwise listed.\n\nIn larger SCSI servers, the disk-drive devices are housed in an intelligent enclosure that supports SCSI Enclosure Services (SES). The initiator can communicate with the enclosure using a specialized set of SCSI commands to access power, cooling, and other non-data characteristics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1699424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699424", "title": "SOAP note", "text": "SOAP note\n\nThe SOAP note (an acronym for subjective, objective, assessment, and plan) is a method of documentation employed by health care providers to write out notes in a patient's chart, along with other common formats, such as the admission note. Documenting patient encounters in the medical record is an integral part of practice workflow starting with patient appointment scheduling, to writing out notes, to medical billing.\n\nThe SOAP note originated from the \"problem-oriented medical record\" (POMR), developed by Lawrence Weed, MD. It was initially developed for physicians, who at the time, were the only health care providers allowed to write in a medical record. Today, it is widely adopted as a communication tool between inter-disciplinary healthcare providers as a way to document a patient's progress.\n\nSOAP notes are commonly found in electronic medical records (EMR) and are used by providers of various backgrounds. Prehospital care providers such as emergency medical technicians may use the same format to communicate patient information to emergency department clinicians. Physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, respiratory therapists, pharmacists, podiatrists, chiropractors, acupuncturists, occupational therapists, physical therapists, school psychologists, speech-language pathologists, certified athletic trainers (ATC), sports therapists, music therapists, among other providers use this format for the patient's initial visit and to monitor progress during follow-up care.\n\nThe four components of a SOAP note are Subjective, Objective, Assessment, and Plan. The length and focus of each component of a SOAP note vary depending on the specialty; for instance, a surgical SOAP note is likely to be much briefer than a medical SOAP note, and will focus on issues that relate to post-surgical status.\n\nInitially the patient's \"chief complaint\", or CC. This is a very brief statement of the patient (quoted) as to the purpose of the office visit or hospitalization.\n\nIf this is the first time a physician is seeing a patient, the physician will take a \"history of present illness\", or HPI. This describes the patient's current condition in narrative form. The history or state of experienced symptoms are recorded in the patient's own words. All information pertaining to subjective information is communicated to the healthcare provider by the patient or his/her representative. It will include all pertinent and negative symptoms under \"review of body systems\". Pertinent medical history, surgical history, family history, and social history, along with current medications, smoking status, drug/alcohol/caffeine use, level of physical activity and allergies, are also recorded. A SAMPLE history is one method of obtaining this information from a patient.\n\nSubsequent visits for the same problem briefly summarize the history of present illness (HPI), including pertinent testing + results, referrals, treatments, outcomes and followups.\n\nThe mnemonic below refers to the information a physician should elicit before referring to the patient's \"old charts\" or \"old carts\".\n\n\nVariants on this mnemonic (more than one could be listed here) include OPQRST and LOCQSMAT:\n\n\nThe objective section of the SOAP includes information that the healthcare provider observes or measures from the patient's current presentation, such as:\n\n\nA medical diagnosis for the purpose of the medical visit on the given date of the note written is a quick summary of the patient with main symptoms/diagnosis including a differential diagnosis, a list of other possible diagnoses usually in order of most likely to least likely. The assessment will also include possible and likely etiologies of the patient's problem. It is the patient's progress since the last visit, and overall progress towards the patient's goal from the physician's perspective. In a pharmacist's SOAP note, the assessment will identify what the drug related/induced problem is likely to be and the reasoning/evidence behind it. This will include etiology and risk factors, assessments of the need for therapy, current therapy, and therapy options. When used in a problem-oriented medical record (POMR), relevant problem numbers or headings are included as subheadings in the assessment.\n\nClinical psychologist Barbara Lichner Ingram, in her book on clinical formulation, used the word \"hypothesis\" in place of \"assessment\", resulting in the acronym SOHP instead of SOAP.\n\nThe plan is what the health care provider will do to treat the patient's concerns—such as ordering further labs, radiological work up, referrals given, procedures performed, medications given and education provided. The plan will also include goals of therapy and patient-specific drug and disease-state monitoring parameters. This should address each item of the differential diagnosis. For patients who have multiple health problems that are addressed in the SOAP note, a plan is developed for each problem and is numbered accordingly based on severity and urgency for therapy. \nA note of what was discussed or advised with the patient as well as timings for further review or follow-up are generally included.\n\nOften the Assessment and Plan sections are grouped together.\n\nA very rough example follows for a patient being reviewed following an appendectomy. This example resembles a surgical SOAP note; medical notes tend to be more detailed, especially in the subjective and objective sections.\n\nThe plan itself includes various components:\n\n"}
{"id": "26847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26847", "title": "Socialism", "text": "Socialism\n\nSocialism is a range of economic and social systems characterised by social ownership and workers' self-management of the means of production as well as the political theories and movements associated with them. There are many varieties of socialism and there is no single definition encapsulating all of them, though social rather than individual ownership is the common element shared by its various forms. \"Social ownership\" may refer to several different forms: \n\nVarieties of socialism can be categorized in a variety of ways:\n\nNon-market socialism involves the substitution of factor markets and money with engineering and technical criteria based on calculation performed in-kind, thereby producing an economic mechanism that functions according to different economic laws from those of capitalism. Non-market socialism aims to circumvent the inefficiencies and crises traditionally associated with capital accumulation and the profit system. By contrast, market socialism retains the use of monetary prices, factor markets and in some cases the profit motive, with respect to the operation of socially owned enterprises and the allocation of capital goods between them. Profits generated by these firms would be controlled directly by the workforce of each firm, or accrue to society at large in the form of a social dividend. The socialist calculation debate discusses the feasibility and methods of resource allocation for a socialist system.\n\nSocialist politics has been both internationalist and nationalist in orientation; organised through political parties and opposed to party politics; at times overlapping with trade unions, and at other times independent and critical of unions; and present in both industrialised and developing countries. Originating within the socialist movement, social democracy has embraced a mixed economy with a market that includes substantial state intervention in the form of income redistribution, regulation, and a welfare state. Economic democracy proposes a sort of market socialism where there is more decentralized control of companies, currencies, investments, natural resources.\nThe socialist political movement includes a set of political philosophies that originated in the revolutionary movements of the mid-to-late 18th century and out of concern for the social problems that were associated with capitalism. By the late 19th century, after the work of Karl Marx and his collaborator Friedrich Engels, socialism had come to signify opposition to capitalism and advocacy for a post-capitalist system based on some form of social ownership of the means of production. By the 1920s, social democracy and communism had become the two dominant political tendencies within the international socialist movement. By this time, socialism emerged as \"the most influential secular movement of the twentieth century, worldwide. It is a political ideology (or world view), a wide and divided political movement\" and while the emergence of the Soviet Union as the world's first nominally socialist state led to socialism's widespread association with the Soviet economic model, some economists and intellectuals argued that in practice the model functioned as a form of state capitalism or a non-planned administrative or command economy. Socialist parties and ideas remain a political force with varying degrees of power and influence on all continents, heading national governments in many countries around the world. Today, some socialists have also adopted the causes of other social movements, such as environmentalism, feminism and progressivism.\n\nFor Andrew Vincent, \"[t]he word ‘socialism’ finds its root in the Latin \"sociare\", which means to combine or to share. The related, more technical term in Roman and then medieval law was \"societas\". This latter word could mean companionship and fellowship as well as the more legalistic idea of a consensual contract between freemen\".\n\nThe term \"socialism\" was created by Henri de Saint-Simon, one of the founders of what would later be labelled \"utopian socialism\". Simon coined the term as a contrast to the liberal doctrine of \"individualism\", which stressed that people act or should act as if they are in isolation from one another. The original \"utopian\" socialists condemned liberal individualism for failing to address social concerns during the industrial revolution, including poverty, social oppression and gross inequalities in wealth, thus viewing liberal individualism as degenerating society into supporting selfish egoism that harmed community life through promoting a society based on competition. They presented socialism as an alternative to liberal individualism based on the shared ownership of resources, although their proposals for socialism differed significantly. Saint-Simon proposed economic planning, scientific administration and the application of modern scientific advancements to the organisation of society. By contrast, Robert Owen proposed the organisation of production and ownership in cooperatives.\n\nThe term \"socialism\" is also attributed to Pierre Leroux and to Marie Roch Louis Reybaud in France; and in Britain to Robert Owen in 1827, father of the cooperative movement.\n\nThe modern definition and usage of \"socialism\" settled by the 1860s, becoming the predominant term among the group of words \"co-operative\", \"mutualist\" and \"associationist\", which had previously been used as synonyms. The term \"communism\" also fell out of use during this period, despite earlier distinctions between socialism and communism from the 1840s. An early distinction between socialism and communism was that the former aimed to only socialise production while the latter aimed to socialise both production and consumption (in the form of free access to final goods). However, Marxists employed the term \"socialism\" in place of \"communism\" by 1888, which had come to be considered an old-fashion synonym for socialism. It was not until 1917 after the Bolshevik Revolution that \"socialism\" came to refer to a distinct stage between capitalism and communism, introduced by Vladimir Lenin as a means to defend the Bolshevik seizure of power against traditional Marxist criticisms that Russia's productive forces were not sufficiently developed for socialist revolution.\n\nA distinction between \"communist\" and \"socialist\" as descriptors of political ideologies arose in 1918 after the Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party renamed itself to the All-Russian Communist Party, where communist came to specifically mean socialists who supported the politics and theories of Leninism, Bolshevism and later Marxism–Leninism, although communist parties continued to describe themselves as socialists dedicated to socialism.\n\nThe words \"socialism\" and \"communism\" eventually accorded with the adherents' and opponents' cultural attitude towards religion. In Christian Europe, communism was believed to be the atheist way of life. In Protestant England, the word \"communism\" was too culturally and aurally close to the Roman Catholic communion rite, hence English atheists denoted themselves socialists. Friedrich Engels argued that in 1848, at the time when \"The Communist Manifesto\" was published, that \"socialism was respectable on the continent, while communism was not\". The Owenites in England and the Fourierists in France were considered \"respectable\" socialists, while working-class movements that \"proclaimed the necessity of total social change\" denoted themselves communists. This latter branch of socialism produced the communist work of Étienne Cabet in France and Wilhelm Weitling in Germany. The British moral philosopher John Stuart Mill also came to advocate a form of economic socialism within a liberal context. In later editions of his \"Principles of Political Economy\" (1848), Mill would argue that \"as far as economic theory was concerned, there is nothing in principle in economic theory that precludes an economic order based on socialist policies\". While democrats looked to the Revolutions of 1848 as a democratic revolution, which in the long run ensured liberty, equality and fraternity, Marxists denounced 1848 as a betrayal of working-class ideals by a bourgeoisie indifferent to the legitimate demands of the proletariat.\n\nSocialist models and ideas espousing common or public ownership have existed since antiquity. It has been claimed—though controversially—that there were elements of socialist thought in the politics of classical Greek philosophers Plato and Aristotle. Mazdak the Younger (died c. 524 or 528 CE), a Persian communal proto-socialist, instituted communal possessions and advocated the public good. Abū Dharr al-Ghifārī, a Companion of Prophet Muhammad, is credited by many as a principal antecedent of Islamic socialism. The teachings of Jesus the messiah of the Christian religion are frequently highlighted as socialist in nature. . Christian socialism was one of the founding threads of the UK Labour Party and is said to be a tradition going back 600 years to the uprising of Wat Tyler and John Ball. In the period right after the French Revolution, activists and theorists like François-Noël Babeuf, Étienne-Gabriel Morelly, Philippe Buonarroti and Auguste Blanqui influenced the early French labour and socialist movements. In Britain, Thomas Paine proposed a detailed plan to tax property owners to pay for the needs of the poor in \"Agrarian Justice\" while Charles Hall wrote \"The Effects of Civilization on the People in European States\", denouncing capitalism's effects on the poor of his time which influenced the utopian schemes of Thomas Spence.\n\nThe first \"self-conscious socialist movements developed in the 1820s and 1830s. The Owenites, Saint-Simonians and Fourierists provided a series of coherent analyses and interpretations of society. They also, especially in the case of the Owenites, overlapped with a number of other working-class movements like the Chartists in the United Kingdom\". The Chartists gathered significant numbers around the People's Charter of 1838, which demanded the extension of suffrage to all male adults. Leaders in the movement also called for a more equitable distribution of income and better living conditions for the working classes. The very first trade unions and consumers' cooperative societies also emerged in the hinterland of the Chartist movement as a way of bolstering the fight for these demands. A later important socialist thinker in France was Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, who proposed his philosophy of mutualism in which \"everyone had an equal claim, either alone or as part of a small cooperative, to possess and use land and other resources as needed to make a living\". There were also currents inspired by dissident Christianity of Christian socialism \"often in Britain and then usually coming out of left liberal politics and a romantic anti-industrialism\" which produced theorists such as Edward Bellamy, Frederick Denison Maurice and Charles Kingsley.\n\nThe first advocates of socialism favoured social levelling in order to create a meritocratic or technocratic society based on individual talent. Count Henri de Saint-Simon is regarded as the first individual to coin the term \"socialism\". Saint-Simon was fascinated by the enormous potential of science and technology and advocated a socialist society that would eliminate the disorderly aspects of capitalism and would be based on equal opportunities. He advocated the creation of a society in which each person was ranked according to his or her capacities and rewarded according to his or her work. The key focus of Saint-Simon's socialism was on administrative efficiency and industrialism and a belief that science was the key to progress. This was accompanied by a desire to implement a rationally organised economy based on planning and geared towards large-scale scientific and material progress, thus embodied a desire for a more directed or planned economy. Other early socialist thinkers, such as Thomas Hodgkin and Charles Hall, based their ideas on David Ricardo's economic theories. They reasoned that the equilibrium value of commodities approximated prices charged by the producer when those commodities were in elastic supply and that these producer prices corresponded to the embodied labour—the cost of the labour (essentially the wages paid) that was required to produce the commodities. The Ricardian socialists viewed profit, interest and rent as deductions from this exchange-value.\n\nWest European social critics, including Robert Owen, Charles Fourier, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Louis Blanc, Charles Hall, and Saint-Simon were the first modern socialists who criticised the excessive poverty and inequality of the Industrial Revolution. They advocated reform, with some such as Robert Owen advocating the transformation of society to small communities without private property. Robert Owen's contribution to modern socialism was his understanding that actions and characteristics of individuals were largely determined by the social environment they were raised in and exposed to. On the other hand, Charles Fourier advocated phalansteres which were communities that respected individual desires (including sexual preferences), affinities and creativity and saw that work has to be made enjoyable for people. The ideas of Owen and Fourier were tried in practice in numerous intentional communities around Europe and the American continent in the mid-19th century.\n\nThe Paris Commune was a government that briefly ruled Paris from 18 March (more formally, from 28 March) to 28 May 1871. The Commune was the result of an uprising in Paris after France was defeated in the Franco-Prussian War. The Commune elections held on 26 March elected a Commune council of 92 members, one member for each 20,000 residents. Despite internal differences, the council began to organise the public services essential for a city of two million residents. It also reached a consensus on certain policies that tended towards a progressive, secular and highly-democratic social democracy.\n\nBecause the Commune was only able to meet on fewer than 60 days in all, only a few decrees were actually implemented. These included the separation of church and state; the remission of rents owed for the entire period of the siege (during which payment had been suspended); the abolition of night work in the hundreds of Paris bakeries; the granting of pensions to the unmarried companions and children of National Guards killed on active service; and the free return, by the city pawnshops, of all workmen's tools and household items valued up to 20 francs, pledged during the siege. The Commune was concerned that skilled workers had been forced to pawn their tools during the war; the postponement of commercial debt obligations and the abolition of interest on the debts; and the right of employees to take over and run an enterprise if it were deserted by its owner. The Commune nonetheless recognised the previous owner's right to compensation.\n\nThe International Workingmen's Association (IWA), often called the First International, was founded in London in 1864. The International Workingmen's Association united diverse revolutionary currents including French followers of Proudhon, Blanquists, Philadelphes, English trade unionists, socialists and social democrats. The IWA held a preliminary conference in 1865 and had its first congress at Geneva in 1866. Due to the wide variety of philosophies present in the First International, there was conflict from the start. The first objections to Marx came from the mutualists who opposed communism and statism. However, shortly after Mikhail Bakunin and his followers (called collectivists while in the International) joined in 1868, the First International became polarised into two camps headed by Marx and Bakunin respectively. The clearest differences between the groups emerged over their proposed strategies for achieving their visions of socialism. The First International became the first major international forum for the promulgation of socialist ideas.\n\nThe followers of Bakunin were called collectivist anarchists and sought to collectivise ownership of the means of production while retaining payment proportional to the amount and kind of labour of each individual. Like Proudhonists, they asserted the right of each individual to the product of his labour and to be remunerated for their particular contribution to production. By contrast, anarcho-communists sought collective ownership of both the means and the products of labour. Errico Malatesta put it: \"[I]nstead of running the risk of making a confusion in trying to distinguish what you and I each do, let us all work and put everything in common. In this way each will give to society all that his strength permits until enough is produced for every one; and each will take all that he needs, limiting his needs only in those things of which there is not yet plenty for every one\". Anarcho-communism as a coherent, modern economic-political philosophy was first formulated in the Italian section of the First International by Carlo Cafiero, Emilio Covelli, Errico Malatesta, Andrea Costa and other ex Mazzinian republicans. Out of respect for Mikhail Bakunin, they did not make their differences with collectivist anarchism explicit until after Bakunin's death.\n\nSyndicalism emerged in France inspired in part by the ideas of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and later by Fernand Pelloutier and Georges Sorel. It developed at the end of the 19th century out of the French trade-union movement (\"syndicat\" is the French word for trade union). It was a significant force in Italy and Spain in the early 20th century until it was crushed by the fascist regimes in those countries. In the United States, syndicalism appeared in the guise of the Industrial Workers of the World, or \"Wobblies\", founded in 1905. Syndicalism is an economic system where industries are organised into confederations (syndicates) and the economy is managed by negotiation between specialists and worker representatives of each field, comprising multiple non-competitive categorised units. Syndicalism is thus a form of communism and economic corporatism, but also refers to the political movement and tactics used to bring about this type of system. An influential anarchist movement based on syndicalist ideas is anarcho-syndicalism. The International Workers Association is an international anarcho-syndicalist federation of various labour unions from different countries.\n\nThe Fabian Society is a British socialist organisation which was established with the purpose of advancing the principles of socialism via gradualist and reformist means. The society laid many of the foundations of the Labour Party and subsequently affected the policies of states emerging from the decolonisation of the British Empire, most notably India and Singapore. Originally, the Fabian Society was committed to the establishment of a socialist economy, alongside a commitment to British imperialism as a progressive and modernising force. Today, the society functions primarily as a think tank and is one of fifteen socialist societies affiliated with the Labour Party. Similar societies exist in Australia (the Australian Fabian Society), in Canada (the Douglas-Coldwell Foundation and the now disbanded League for Social Reconstruction) and in New Zealand.\n\nGuild socialism is a political movement advocating workers' control of industry through the medium of trade-related guilds \"in an implied contractual relationship with the public\". It originated in the United Kingdom and was at its most influential in the first quarter of the 20th century. Inspired by medieval guilds, theorists such as Samuel G. Hobson and G. D. H. Cole advocated the public ownership of industries and their organisation into guilds, each of which would be under the democratic control of its trade union. Guild socialists were less inclined than Fabians to invest power in a state. At some point, like the American Knights of Labor, guild socialism wanted to abolish the wage system.\n\nAs the ideas of Marx and Engels took on flesh, particularly in central Europe, socialists sought to unite in an international organisation. In 1889 (the centennial of the French Revolution of 1789), the Second International was founded, with 384 delegates from twenty countries representing about 300 labour and socialist organisations. It was termed the Socialist International and Engels was elected honorary president at the third congress in 1893. Anarchists were ejected and not allowed in, mainly due to pressure from Marxists. It has been argued that at some point the Second International turned \"into a battleground over the issue of libertarian versus authoritarian socialism. Not only did they effectively present themselves as champions of minority rights; they also provoked the German Marxists into demonstrating a dictatorial intolerance which was a factor in preventing the British labor movement from following the Marxist direction indicated by such leaders as H. M. Hyndman\".\n\nReformism arose as an alternative to revolution. Eduard Bernstein was a leading social democrat in Germany who proposed the concept of evolutionary socialism. Revolutionary socialists quickly targeted reformism: Rosa Luxemburg condemned Bernstein's \"Evolutionary Socialism\" in her 1900 essay \"Social Reform or Revolution?\". Revolutionary socialism encompasses multiple social and political movements that may define \"revolution\" differently from one another. The Social Democratic Party (SPD) in Germany became the largest and most powerful socialist party in Europe, despite working illegally until the anti-socialist laws were dropped in 1890. In the 1893 elections, it gained 1,787,000 votes, a quarter of the total votes cast, according to Engels. In 1895, the year of his death, Engels emphasised the \"Communist Manifesto\"'s emphasis on winning, as a first step, the \"battle of democracy\".\n\nIn Argentina the Socialist Party of Argentina was established in the 1890s led by, among others, Juan B. Justo and Nicolás Repetto, thus becoming the first mass party in the country and in Latin America. The party affiliated itself with the Second International. Between 1924 and 1940 it was a member of the Labour and Socialist International. In 1904, Australians elected Chris Watson as the first Australian Labor Party Prime Minister, becoming the first democratically elected social democrat. In 1909, the first Kibbutz was established in Palestine by Russian Jewish Immigrants. The Kibbutz Movement would then expand through the 20th century following a doctrine of Zionist socialism. The British Labour Party first won seats in the House of Commons in 1902. The International Socialist Commission (ISC, also known as Berne International) was formed in February 1919 at a meeting in Bern by parties that wanted to resurrect the Second International.\n\nBy 1917, the patriotism of World War I changed into political radicalism in most of Europe, the United States and Australia. Other socialist parties from around the world who were beginning to gain importance in their national politics in the early 20th century included the Italian Socialist Party, the French Section of the Workers' International, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the Swedish Social Democratic Party, the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party, the Socialist Party of America in the United States, the Argentinian Socialist Party and the Chilean Partido Obrero Socialista.\n\nIn February 1917, revolution exploded in Russia. Workers, soldiers and peasants established soviets (councils), the monarchy fell and a provisional government convoked pending the election of a constituent assembly. In April of that year, Vladimir Lenin, leader of the Bolshevik faction of socialists in Russia and known for his profound and controversial expansions of Marxism, was allowed to cross Germany to return to his country from exile in Switzerland.\n\nLenin had published essays on his analysis of imperialism, the monopoly and globalisation phase of capitalism as predicted by Marx, as well as analyses on the social conditions of his contemporary time. He observed that as capitalism had further developed in Europe and America, the workers remained unable to gain class consciousness so long as they were too busy working and concerning with how to make ends meet. He therefore proposed that the social revolution would require the leadership of a vanguard party of class-conscious revolutionaries from the educated and politically active part of the population.\n\nUpon arriving in Petrograd, Lenin declared that the revolution in Russia was not over, but had only begun and that the next step was for the workers' soviets to take full state authority. He issued a thesis outlining the Bolshevik's party programme, including rejection of any legitimacy in the provisional government and advocacy for state power to be given to the peasant and working class through the soviets. The Bolsheviks became the most influential force in the soviets and on 7 November the capitol of the provisional government was stormed by Bolshevik Red Guards in what afterwards known as the \"Great October Socialist Revolution\". The rule of the provisional government was ended and the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic—the world's first constitutionally socialist state—was established. On 25 January 1918 at the Petrograd Soviet, Lenin declared \"Long live the world socialist revolution!\" and proposed an immediate armistice on all fronts and transferred the land of the landed proprietors, the crown and the monasteries to the peasant committees without compensation.\n\nThe day after assuming executive power on 25 January, Lenin wrote \"Draft Regulations on Workers' Control\", which granted workers control of businesses with more than five workers and office employees and access to all books, documents and stocks and whose decisions were to be \"binding upon the owners of the enterprises\". Governing through the elected soviets and in alliance with the peasant-based Left Socialist-Revolutionaries, the Bolshevik government began nationalising banks and industry; and disavowed the national debts of the deposed Romanov royal régime. It sued for peace, withdrawing from World War I and convoked a Constituent Assembly in which the peasant Socialist-Revolutionary Party (SR) won a majority.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly elected Socialist-Revolutionary leader Victor Chernov President of a Russian republic, but rejected the Bolshevik proposal that it endorse the Soviet decrees on land, peace and workers' control and acknowledge the power of the Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies. The next day, the Bolsheviks declared that the assembly was elected on outdated party lists and the All-Russian Central Executive Committee of the Soviets dissolved it. In March 1919, world communist parties formed Comintern (also known as the Third International) at a meeting in Moscow.\n\nParties which did not want to be a part of the resurrected Second International (ISC) or Comintern formed the International Working Union of Socialist Parties (IWUSP, also known as Vienna International/Vienna Union/Two-and-a-Half International) on 27 February 1921 at a conference in Vienna. The ISC and the IWUSP joined to form the Labour and Socialist International (LSI) in May 1923 at a meeting in Hamburg Left-wing groups which did not agree to the centralisation and abandonment of the soviets by the Bolshevik Party led left-wing uprisings against the Bolsheviks—such groups included Socialist Revolutionaries, Left Socialist Revolutionaries, Mensheviks and anarchists.\n\nWithin this left-wing discontent, the most large-scale events were the worker's Kronstadt rebellion and the anarchist led Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine uprising which controlled an area known as the Free Territory.\n\nThe Bolshevik Russian Revolution of January 1918 engendered communist parties worldwide and their concomitant revolutions of 1917–1923. Few communists doubted that the Russian success of socialism depended on successful, working-class socialist revolutions in developed capitalist countries. In 1919, Lenin and Trotsky organised the world's communist parties into a new international association of workers—the Communist International (Comintern), also called the Third International.\n\nThe Russian Revolution also influenced uprisings in other countries around this time. The German Revolution of 1918–1919 resulted in the replacing Germany's imperial government with a republic. The revolutionary period lasted from November 1918 until the formal establishment of the Weimar Republic in August 1919 and included an episode known as the Bavarian Soviet Republic and the Spartacist uprising. In Italy, the events known as the \"Biennio Rosso\" were characterised by mass strikes, worker manifestations and self-management experiments through land and factory occupations. In Turin and Milan, workers' councils were formed and many factory occupations took place led by anarcho-syndicalists organised around the Unione Sindacale Italiana.\n\nBy 1920, the Red Army under its commander Trotsky had largely defeated the royalist White Armies. In 1921, War Communism was ended and under the New Economic Policy (NEP) private ownership was allowed for small and medium peasant enterprises. While industry remained largely state-controlled, Lenin acknowledged that the NEP was a necessary capitalist measure for a country unripe for socialism. Profiteering returned in the form of \"NEP men\" and rich peasants (kulaks) gained power in the countryside. Nevertheless, the role of Trotsky in this episode has been questioned by other socialists, including ex Trotskyists. In the United States, Dwight Macdonald broke with Trotsky and left the Trotskyist Socialist Workers Party by raising the question of the Kronstadt rebellion, which Trotsky as leader of the Soviet Red Army and the other Bolsheviks had brutally repressed. He then moved towards democratic socialism. and anarchism.\n\nA similar critique of Trotsky's role on the events around the Kronstadt rebellion was raised by the American anarchist Emma Goldman. In her essay \"Trotsky Protests Too Much\", she says: \"I admit, the dictatorship under Stalin's rule has become monstrous. That does not, however, lessen the guilt of Leon Trotsky as one of the actors in the revolutionary drama of which Kronstadt was one of the bloodiest scenes\".\n\nIn 1922, the fourth congress of the Communist International took up the policy of the United Front, urging communists to work with rank and file Social Democrats while remaining critical of their leaders, whom they criticised for betraying the working class by supporting the war efforts of their respective capitalist classes. For their part, the social democrats pointed to the dislocation caused by revolution and later the growing authoritarianism of the communist parties. When the Communist Party of Great Britain applied to affiliate to the Labour Party in 1920, it was turned down.\n\nOn seeing the Soviet State's growing coercive power in 1923, a dying Lenin said Russia had reverted to \"a bourgeois tsarist machine... barely varnished with socialism\". After Lenin's death in January 1924, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union—then increasingly under the control of Joseph Stalin—rejected the theory that socialism could not be built solely in the Soviet Union in favour of the concept of \"socialism in one country\". Despite the marginalised Left Opposition's demand for the restoration of Soviet democracy, Stalin developed a bureaucratic, authoritarian government that was condemned by democratic socialists, anarchists and Trotskyists for undermining the initial socialist ideals of the Bolshevik Russian Revolution.\n\nIn 1924, the Mongolian People's Republic was established and was ruled by the Mongolian People's Party. The Russian Revolution and the appearance of the Soviet State motivated a worldwide current of national communist parties which ended having varying levels of political and social influence. Among these there appeared the Communist Party of France, the Communist Party USA, the Italian Communist Party, the Chinese Communist Party, the Mexican Communist Party, the Brazilian Communist Party, the Chilean Communist Party and the Communist Party of Indonesia.\n\nIn Spain in 1936, the national anarcho-syndicalist trade union Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) initially refused to join a popular front electoral alliance and abstention by CNT supporters led to a right-wing election victory. In 1936, the CNT changed its policy and anarchist votes helped bring the popular front back to power. Months later, the former ruling class responded with an attempted coup, sparking the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939).\n\nIn response to the army rebellion, an anarchist-inspired movement of peasants and workers, supported by armed militias, took control of Barcelona and of large areas of rural Spain where they collectivised the land. The events known as the Spanish Revolution was a workers' social revolution that began during the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War in 1936 and resulted in the widespread implementation of anarchist and more broadly libertarian socialist organisational principles throughout various portions of the country for two to three years, primarily Catalonia, Aragon, Andalusia and parts of Levante.\n\nMuch of Spain's economy was put under worker control and in anarchist strongholds like Catalonia the figure was as high as 75%, but lower in areas with heavy Communist Party of Spain influence, as the Soviet-allied party actively resisted attempts at collectivisation enactment. Factories were run through worker committees, agrarian areas became collectivised and run as libertarian communes. Anarchist historian Sam Dolgoff estimated that about eight million people participated directly or indirectly in the Spanish Revolution.\n\nLeon Trotsky's Fourth International was established in France in 1938 when Trotskyists argued that the Comintern or Third International had become irretrievably \"lost to Stalinism\" and thus incapable of leading the international working class to political power. The rise of Nazism and the start of World War II led to the dissolution of the LSI in 1940. After the War, the Socialist International was formed in Frankfurt in July 1951 as a successor to the LSI.\n\nAfter World War II, social democratic governments introduced social reform and wealth redistribution via state welfare and taxation. Social democratic parties dominated post-war politics in countries such as France, Italy, Czechoslovakia, Belgium and Norway. At one point, France claimed to be the world's most state-controlled capitalist country. The nationalised public utilities included Charbonnages de France (CDF), Electricité de France (EDF), Gaz de France (GDF), Air France, Banque de France and Régie Nationale des Usines Renault.\n\nIn 1945, the British Labour Party led by Clement Attlee was elected to office based on a radical socialist programme. The Labour government nationalised major public utilities such as mines, gas, coal, electricity, rail, iron, steel and the Bank of England. British Petroleum was officially nationalised in 1951. Anthony Crosland said that in 1956 25% of British industry was nationalised and that public employees, including those in nationalised industries, constituted a similar proportion of the country's total employed population. The Labour Governments of 1964–1970 and 1974–1979 intervened further. It re-nationalised steel (1967, British Steel) after the Conservatives had denationalised it and nationalised car production (1976, British Leyland). The National Health Service provided taxpayer-funded health care to everyone, free at the point of service. Working-class housing was provided in council housing estates and university education became available via a school grant system.\n\nThe Nordic model is the economic and social models of the Nordic countries (Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Finland). During most of the post-war era, Sweden was governed by the Swedish Social Democratic Party largely in cooperation with trade unions and industry. In Sweden, the Social Democratic Party held power from 1936 to 1976, 1982 to 1991, 1994 to 2006 and 2014 to present. Tage Erlander was the leader of the Swedish Social Democratic Party and led the government from 1946 to 1969, an uninterrupted tenure of twenty-three years, one of the longest in any democracy. From 1945 to 1962, the Norwegian Labour Party held an absolute majority in the parliament led by Einar Gerhardsen who was Prime Minister with seventeen years in office. This particular adaptation of the mixed market economy is characterised by more generous welfare states (relative to other developed countries), which are aimed specifically at enhancing individual autonomy, ensuring the universal provision of basic human rights and stabilising the economy. It is distinguished from other welfare states with similar goals by its emphasis on maximising labour force participation, promoting gender equality, egalitarian and extensive benefit levels, large magnitude of redistribution and expansionary fiscal policy.\n\nThe Soviet Union played a decisive role in the Allied victory in World War II. After the war, the Soviet Union became a recognised superpower. The Soviet era saw some of the most significant technological achievements of the 20th century, including the world's first spacecraft and the first astronaut. The Soviet economy was the modern world's first centrally planned economy. It was based on a system of state ownership of industry managed through Gosplan (the State Planning Commission), Gosbank (the State Bank) and the Gossnab (State Commission for Materials and Equipment Supply).\n\nEconomic planning was conducted through a series of Five-Year Plans. The emphasis was on fast development of heavy industry and the nation became one of the world's top manufacturers of a large number of basic and heavy industrial products, but it lagged in light industrial production and consumer durables.\n\nThe Eastern Bloc was the group of former Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe, generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact which included the People's Republic of Poland, the German Democratic Republic, the People's Republic of Hungary, the People's Republic of Bulgaria, the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, the Socialist Republic of Romania, the People's Socialist Republic of Albania and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Hungarian Revolution of 1956 was a spontaneous nationwide revolt against the government of the People's Republic of Hungary and its Soviet-imposed policies, lasting from 23 October until 10 November 1956. Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's denunciation of the excesses of Stalin's regime during the Twentieth Party Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union on 1956 as well as the revolt in Hungary, produced ideological fractures and disagreements within the communist and socialist parties of Western Europe.\n\nIn the post-war years, socialism became increasingly influential throughout the so-called Third World. Embracing a new Third World socialism, countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America often nationalised industries held by foreign owners. The Chinese Kuomintang Party, the previous ruling party in Taiwan, was referred to as having a socialist ideology since Kuomintang's revolutionary ideology in the 1920s incorporated unique Chinese socialism as part of its ideology. The Soviet Union trained Kuomintang revolutionaries in the Moscow Sun Yat-sen University. Movie theatres in the Soviet Union showed newsreels and clips of Chiang at Moscow Sun Yat-sen University portraits of Chiang were hung on the walls and in the Soviet May Day parades that year Chiang's portrait was to be carried along with the portraits of Marx, Lenin, Stalin and other socialist leaders.\n\nThe Chinese Revolution was the second stage in the Chinese Civil War which ended in the establishment of the People's Republic of China led by the Chinese Communist Party. The term \"Third World\" was coined by French demographer Alfred Sauvy in 1952 on the model of the Third Estate, which according to the Abbé Sieyès represented everything, but was nothing \"because at the end this ignored, exploited, scorned Third World like the Third Estate, wants to become something too\".\n\nThe emergence of this new political entity in the frame of the Cold War was complex and painful. Several tentatives were made to organise newly independent states in order to oppose a common front towards both the United States' and the Soviet Union's influence on them, with the consequences of the Sino-Soviet split already at works. The Non-Aligned Movement constituted itself around the main figures of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru of India, President Sukarno of Indonesia, leader Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia and Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt who successfully opposed the French and British imperial powers during the 1956 Suez crisis. After the 1954 Geneva Conference which ended the French war against Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam, the 1955 Bandung Conference gathered Nasser, Nehru, Tito, Sukarno and Zhou Enlai, Premier of the People's Republic of China.\n\nAs many African countries gained independence during the 1960s, some of them rejected capitalism in favour of a more afrocentric economic model. The main architects of African socialism were Julius Nyerere of Tanzania, Léopold Senghor of Senegal, Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana and Sékou Touré of Guinea.\n\nThe Cuban Revolution (1953–1959) was an armed revolt conducted by Fidel Castro's 26th of July Movement and its allies against the government of Cuban President Fulgencio Batista. The revolution began in July 1953 and finally ousted Batista on 1 January 1959, replacing his government with Castro's revolutionary state. Castro's government later reformed along communist lines, becoming the Communist Party of Cuba in October 1965.\n\nIn Indonesia, a right-wing military regime led by Suharto killed between 500,000 and one million people in 1965 and 1966, mainly to crush the growing influence of the Communist Party of Indonesia and other leftist sectors, with support from the United States government, which provided kill lists containing thousands of names of suspected high-ranking Communists.\n\nThe New Left was a term used mainly in the United Kingdom and United States in reference to activists, educators, agitators and others in the 1960s and 1970s who sought to implement a broad range of reforms on issues such as gay rights, abortion, gender roles and drugs in contrast to earlier leftist or Marxist movements that had taken a more vanguardist approach to social justice and focused mostly on labour unionisation and questions of social class. The New Left rejected involvement with the labour movement and Marxism's historical theory of class struggle.\n\nIn the United States, the New Left was associated with the Hippie movement and anti-war college campus protest movements as well as the black liberation movements such as the Black Panther Party. While initially formed in opposition to the \"Old Left\" Democratic Party, groups composing the New Left gradually became central players in the Democratic coalition.\n\nThe protests of 1968 represented a worldwide escalation of social conflicts, predominantly characterised by popular rebellions against military, capitalist and bureaucratic elites who responded with an escalation of political repression. These protests marked a turning point for the civil rights movement in the United States, which produced revolutionary movements like the Black Panther Party; the prominent civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. organised the \"Poor People's Campaign\" to address issues of economic justice, while personally showing sympathy with democratic socialism. In reaction to the Tet Offensive, protests also sparked a broad movement in opposition to the Vietnam War all over the United States and even into London, Paris, Berlin and Rome. In 1968 in Carrara, Italy, the International of Anarchist Federations was founded during an international anarchist conference held there by the three existing European federations of France, the Italian and the Iberian Anarchist Federation as well as the Bulgarian federation in French exile.\n\nMass socialist or communist movements grew not only in the United States, but also in most European countries. The most spectacular manifestation of this were the May 1968 protests in France in which students linked up with strikes of up to ten million workers and for a few days the movement seemed capable of overthrowing the government.\n\nIn many other capitalist countries, struggles against dictatorships, state repression and colonisation were also marked by protests in 1968, such as the beginning of the Troubles in Northern Ireland, the Tlatelolco massacre in Mexico City and the escalation of guerrilla warfare against the military dictatorship in Brazil. Countries governed by communist parties had protests against bureaucratic and military elites. In Eastern Europe there were widespread protests that escalated particularly in the Prague Spring in Czechoslovakia. In response, Soviet Union occupied Czechoslovakia, but the occupation was denounced by the Italian and French communist parties and the Communist Party of Finland. Few western European political leaders defended the occupation, among them the Portuguese communist secretary-general Álvaro Cunhal. along with the Luxembourg party and conservative factions of the Communist Party of Greece.\n\nIn the Chinese Cultural Revolution, a social-political youth movement mobilised against \"bourgeois\" elements which were seen to be infiltrating the government and society at large, aiming to restore capitalism. This movement motivated Maoism-inspired movements around the world in the context of the Sino-Soviet split.\n\nIn Latin America in the 1960s, a socialist tendency within the catholic church appeared which was called liberation theology which motivated even the Colombian priest Camilo Torres to enter the ELN guerrilla. In Chile, Salvador Allende, a physician and candidate for the Socialist Party of Chile, was elected president through democratic elections in 1970. In 1973, his government was ousted by the United States-backed military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, which lasted until the late 1980s. Pinochet's regime was a leader of Operation \"Condor\", a U.S.-backed campaign of repression and state terrorism carried out by the intelligence services of the Southern Cone countries of Latin America to eliminate suspected Communist subversion. In Jamaica, the democratic socialist Michael Manley served as the fourth Prime Minister of Jamaica from 1972 to 1980 and from 1989 to 1992. According to opinion polls, he remains one of Jamaica's most popular Prime Ministers since independence. The Nicaraguan Revolution encompassed the rising opposition to the Somoza dictatorship in the 1960s and 1970s, the campaign led by the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) to violently oust the dictatorship in 1978–1979, the subsequent efforts of the FSLN to govern Nicaragua from 1979 until 1990 and the socialist measures which included widescale agrarian reform and educational programs. The People's Revolutionary Government was proclaimed on 13 March 1979 in Grenada which was overthrown by armed forces of the United States in 1983. The Salvadoran Civil War (1979–1992) was a conflict between the military-led government of El Salvador and the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front (FMLN), a coalition or umbrella organisation of five socialist guerrilla groups. A coup on 15 October 1979 led to the killings of anti-coup protesters by the government as well as anti-disorder protesters by the guerillas, and is widely seen as the tipping point towards the civil war.\n\nIn Italy, Autonomia Operaia was a leftist movement particularly active from 1976 to 1978. It took an important role in the autonomist movement in the 1970s, aside earlier organisations such as Potere Operaio (created after May 1968) and Lotta Continua. This experience prompted the contemporary socialist radical movement autonomism. In 1982, the newly elected French socialist government of François Mitterrand made nationalisations in a few key industries, including banks and insurance companies. Eurocommunism was a trend in the 1970s and 1980s in various Western European communist parties to develop a theory and practice of social transformation that was more relevant for a Western European country and less aligned to the influence or control of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Outside Western Europe, it is sometimes called neocommunism. Some communist parties with strong popular support, notably the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) adopted Eurocommunism most enthusiastically and the Communist Party of Finland was dominated by Eurocommunists. The French Communist Party (PCF) and many smaller parties strongly opposed Eurocommunism and stayed aligned with the Communist Party of the Soviet Union until the end of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn the late 1970s and in the 1980s, the Socialist International (SI) had extensive contacts and discussion with the two powers of the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union, about East-West relations and arms control. Since then, the SI has admitted as member parties the Nicaraguan FSLN, the left-wing Puerto Rican Independence Party, as well as former communist parties such as the Democratic Party of the Left of Italy and the Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO). The SI aided social democratic parties in re-establishing themselves when dictatorship gave way to democracy in Portugal (1974) and Spain (1975). Until its 1976 Geneva Congress, the SI had few members outside Europe and no formal involvement with Latin America.\nAfter Mao's death in 1976 and the arrest of the faction known as the Gang of Four, who were blamed for the excesses of the Cultural Revolution, Deng Xiaoping took power and led the People's Republic of China to significant economic reforms. The Communist Party of China loosened governmental control over citizens' personal lives and the communes were disbanded in favour of private land leases, thus China's transition from a planned economy to a mixed economy named as \"socialism with Chinese characteristics\" which maintained state ownership rights over land, state or cooperative ownership of much of the heavy industrial and manufacturing sectors and state influence in the banking and financial sectors. China adopted its current constitution on 4 December 1982. President Jiang Zemin and Premier Zhu Rongji led the nation in the 1990s. Under their administration, China's economic performance pulled an estimated 150 million peasants out of poverty and sustained an average annual gross domestic product growth rate of 11.2%. At the Sixth National Congress of the Communist Party of Vietnam in December 1986, reformist politicians replaced the \"old guard\" government with new leadership. The reformers were led by 71-year-old Nguyen Van Linh, who became the party's new general secretary. Linh and the reformers implemented a series of free market reforms—known as \"\" (\"Renovation\")—which carefully managed the transition from a planned economy to a \"socialist-oriented market economy\". Mikhail Gorbachev wished to move the Soviet Union towards of Nordic-style social democracy, calling it \"a socialist beacon for all mankind\". Prior to its dissolution in 1991, the Soviet Union had the second largest economy in the world after the United States. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, the economic integration of the Soviet republics was dissolved and overall industrial activity declined substantially. A lasting legacy remains in the physical infrastructure created during decades of combined industrial production practices, and widespread environmental destruction. The transition to capitalism in the former Soviet Union and Eastern bloc, which was accompanied by Washington Consensus-inspired \"shock therapy\", resulted in a steep fall in the standard of living. The region experienced rising economic inequality and poverty a surge in excess mortality and a decline in life expectancy, which was accompanied by the entrenchment of a newly established business oligarchy in the former. The average post-communist country had returned to 1989 levels of per-capita GDP by 2005, although some are still far behind that. These developments led to increased nationalist sentiment and nostalgia for the Communist era.\n\nMany social democratic parties, particularly after the Cold War, adopted neoliberal market policies including privatisation, deregulation and financialisation. They abandoned their pursuit of moderate socialism in favour of market liberalism. By the 1980s, with the rise of conservative neoliberal politicians such as Ronald Reagan in the United States, Margaret Thatcher in Britain, Brian Mulroney in Canada and Augusto Pinochet in Chile, the Western welfare state was attacked from within, but state support for the corporate sector was maintained. Monetarists and neoliberals attacked social welfare systems as impediments to private entrepreneurship. In the United Kingdom, Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock made a public attack against the entryist group Militant at the 1985 Labour Party conference. The Labour Party ruled that Militant was ineligible for affiliation with the Labour Party, and the party gradually expelled Militant supporters. The Kinnock leadership had refused to support the 1984–1985 miner's strike over pit closures, a decision that the party's left wing and the National Union of Mineworkers blamed for the strike's eventual defeat. In 1989 at Stockholm, the 18th Congress of the Socialist International adopted a new Declaration of Principles, saying: Democratic socialism is an international movement for freedom, social justice, and solidarity. Its goal is to achieve a peaceful world where these basic values can be enhanced and where each individual can live a meaningful life with the full development of his or her personality and talents, and with the guarantee of human and civil rights in a democratic framework of society.\n\nIn the 1990s, the British Labour Party under Tony Blair enacted policies based on the free market economy to deliver public services via the private finance initiative. Influential in these policies was the idea of a \"Third Way\" which called for a re-evalutation of welfare state policies. In 1995, the Labour Party re-defined its stance on socialism by re-wording Clause IV of its constitution, effectively rejecting socialism by removing all references to public, direct worker or municipal ownership of the means of production. The Labour Party stated: \"The Labour Party is a democratic socialist party. It believes that, by the strength of our common endeavour we achieve more than we achieve alone, so as to create, for each of us, the means to realise our true potential, and, for all of us, a community in which power, wealth, and opportunity are in the hands of the many, not the few\".\n\nAfrican socialism has been and continues to be a major ideology around the continent. Julius Nyerere was inspired by Fabian socialist ideals. He was a firm believer in rural Africans and their traditions and ujamaa, a system of collectivisation that according to Nyerere was present before European imperialism. Essentially he believed Africans were already socialists. Other African socialists include Jomo Kenyatta, Kenneth Kaunda, Nelson Mandela and Kwame Nkrumah. Fela Kuti was inspired by socialism and called for a democratic African republic. In South Africa the African National Congress (ANC) abandoned its partial socialist allegiances after taking power and followed a standard neoliberal route. From 2005 through to 2007, the country was wracked by many thousands of protests from poor communities. One of these gave rise to a mass movement of shack dwellers, Abahlali baseMjondolo that despite major police suppression continues to work for popular people's planning and against the creation of a market economy in land and housing.\n\nIn Asia, states with socialist economies—such as the People's Republic of China, North Korea, Laos and Vietnam—have largely moved away from centralised economic planning in the 21st century, placing a greater emphasis on markets. Forms include the Chinese socialist market economy and the Vietnamese socialist-oriented market economy. They utilise state-owned corporate management models as opposed to modelling socialist enterprise on traditional management styles employed by government agencies. In China living standards continued to improve rapidly despite the late-2000s recession, but centralised political control remained tight. Brian Reynolds Myers in his book \"The Cleanest Race\", later supported by other academics, dismisses the idea that \"Juche\" is North Korea's leading ideology, regarding its public exaltation as designed to deceive foreigners and that it exists to be praised and not actually read, pointing out that North Korea's constitution of 2009 omits all mention of communism.\n\nThough the authority of the state remained unchallenged under \"Đổi Mới\", the government of Vietnam encourages private ownership of farms and factories, economic deregulation and foreign investment, while maintaining control over strategic industries. The Vietnamese economy subsequently achieved strong growth in agricultural and industrial production, construction, exports and foreign investment. However, these reforms have also caused a rise in income inequality and gender disparities.\n\nElsewhere in Asia, some elected socialist parties and communist parties remain prominent, particularly in India and Nepal. The Communist Party of Nepal in particular calls for multi-party democracy, social equality and economic prosperity. In Singapore, a majority of the GDP is still generated from the state sector comprising government-linked companies. In Japan, there has been a resurgent interest in the Japanese Communist Party among workers and youth. In Malaysia, the Socialist Party of Malaysia got its first Member of Parliament, Dr. Jeyakumar Devaraj, after the 2008 general election. In 2010, there were 270 kibbutzim in Israel. Their factories and farms account for 9% of Israel's industrial output, worth US$8 billion and 40% of its agricultural output, worth over $1.7 billion. Some Kibbutzim had also developed substantial high-tech and military industries. Also in 2010, Kibbutz Sasa, containing some 200 members, generated $850 million in annual revenue from its military-plastics industry.\n\nThe United Nations \"World Happiness Report 2013\" shows that the happiest nations are concentrated in Northern Europe, where the Nordic model of social democracy is employed, with Denmark topping the list. This is at times attributed to the success of the Nordic model in the region. The Nordic countries ranked highest on the metrics of real GDP per capita, healthy life expectancy, having someone to count on, perceived freedom to make life choices, generosity and freedom from corruption. Indeed, the indicators of Freedom in the World have listed Scandinavian countries as ranking high on indicators such as press and economic freedom. \n\nThe objectives of the Party of European Socialists, the European Parliament's socialist and social democratic bloc, are now \"to pursue international aims in respect of the principles on which the European Union is based, namely principles of freedom, equality, solidarity, democracy, respect of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and respect for the Rule of Law\". As a result, today the rallying cry of the French Revolution—\"Liberté, égalité, fraternité\"—is promoted as essential socialist values. To the left of the PES at the European level is the Party of the European Left (PEL), also commonly abbreviated \"European Left\"), which is a political party at the European level and an association of democratic socialist, socialist and communist political parties in the European Union and other European countries. It was formed in January 2004 for the purposes of running in the 2004 European Parliament elections. PEL was founded on 8–9 May 2004 in Rome. Elected MEPs from member parties of the European Left sit in the European United Left–Nordic Green Left (GUE/NGL) group in the European parliament.\nThe socialist Left Party in Germany grew in popularity due to dissatisfaction with the increasingly neoliberal policies of the SPD, becoming the fourth biggest party in parliament in the general election on 27 September 2009. Communist candidate Dimitris Christofias won a crucial presidential runoff in Cyprus, defeating his conservative rival with a majority of 53%. In Ireland, in the 2009 European election Joe Higgins of the Socialist Party took one of three seats in the capital Dublin European constituency.\n\nIn Denmark, the Socialist People's Party (SF) more than doubled its parliamentary representation to 23 seats from 11, making it the fourth largest party. In 2011, the Social Democrats, Socialist People's Party and the Danish Social Liberal Party formed government, after a slight victory over the main rival political coalition. They were led by Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and had the Red-Green Alliance as a supporting party.\n\nIn Norway, the Red-Green Coalition consists of the Labour Party (Ap), the Socialist Left Party (SV) and the Centre Party (Sp) and governed the country as a majority government from the 2005 general election until 2013.\n\nIn the Greek legislative election of January 2015, the Coalition of the Radical Left (SYRIZA) led by Alexis Tsipras won a legislative election for the first time while the Communist Party of Greece won 15 seats in parliament. SYRIZA has been characterised as an anti-establishment party, whose success has sent \"shock-waves across the EU\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers put forward a slate of candidates in the 2009 European Parliament elections under the banner of No to EU – Yes to Democracy, a broad left-wing alter-globalisation coalition involving socialist groups such as the Socialist Party, aiming to offer an alternative to the \"anti-foreigner\" and pro-business policies of the UK Independence Party. In the following May 2010 United Kingdom general election, the Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition, launched in January 2010 and backed by Bob Crow, the leader of the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers union (RMT), other union leaders and the Socialist Party among other socialist groups, stood against Labour in 40 constituencies. The Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition contested the 2011 local elections, having gained the endorsement of the RMT June 2010 conference, but gained no seats. Left Unity was also founded in 2013 after the film director Ken Loach appealed for a new party of the left to replace the Labour Party, which he claimed had failed to oppose austerity and had shifted towards neoliberalism. In 2015, following a defeat at the 2015 United Kingdom general election, self-described socialist Jeremy Corbyn took over from Ed Miliband as leader of the Labour Party.\n\nIn France, Olivier Besancenot, the Revolutionary Communist League (LCR) candidate in the 2007 presidential election, received 1,498,581 votes, 4.08%, double that of the communist candidate. The LCR abolished itself in 2009 to initiate a broad anti-capitalist party, the New Anticapitalist Party, whose stated aim is to \"build a new socialist, democratic perspective for the twenty-first century\".\n\nOn 25 May 2014, the Spanish left-wing party Podemos entered candidates for the 2014 European parliamentary elections, some of which were unemployed. In a surprise result, it polled 7.98% of the vote and thus was awarded five seats out of 54 while the older United Left was the third largest overall force obtaining 10.03% and 5 seats, 4 more than the previous elections.\n\nThe current government of Portugal was established on 26 November 2015 as a Socialist Party (PS) minority government led by prime minister António Costa. Costa succeeded in securing support for a Socialist minority government by the Left Bloc (B.E.), the Portuguese Communist Party (PCP) and the Ecologist Party \"The Greens\" (PEV).\n\nAll around Europe and in some places of Latin America there exists a social center and squatting movement mainly inspired by autonomist and anarchist ideas.\n\nAccording to a 2013 article in \"The Guardian\", \"[c]ontrary to popular belief, Americans don't have an innate allergy to socialism. Milwaukee has had several socialist mayors (Frank Zeidler, Emil Seidel and Daniel Hoan), and there is currently an independent socialist in the US Senate, Bernie Sanders of Vermont\". Sanders, once mayor of Vermont's largest city, Burlington, has described himself as a democratic socialist and has praised Scandinavian-style social democracy. In 2016, Sanders made a bid for the Democratic Party presidential candidate, thereby gaining considerable popular support, particularly among the younger generation, but lost the nomination to Hillary Clinton.\n\nAnti-capitalism, anarchism and the anti-globalisation movement rose to prominence through events such as protests against the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference of 1999 in Seattle. Socialist-inspired groups played an important role in these movements, which nevertheless embraced much broader layers of the population and were championed by figures such as Noam Chomsky. In Canada, the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation (CCF), the precursor to the social democratic New Democratic Party (NDP), had significant success in provincial politics. In 1944, the Saskatchewan CCF formed the first socialist government in North America. At the federal level, the NDP was the Official Opposition, from 2011 through 2015.\n\nFor the \"Encyclopedia Britannica\", \"the attempt by Salvador Allende to unite Marxists and other reformers in a socialist reconstruction of Chile is most representative of the direction that Latin American socialists have taken since the late 20th century. [...] Several socialist (or socialist-leaning) leaders have followed Allende's example in winning election to office in Latin American countries\". Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega, Bolivian President Evo Morales and Ecuadorian president Rafael Correa refer to their political programmes as socialist and Chávez adopted the term \"socialism of the 21st century\". After winning re-election in December 2006, Chávez said: \"Now more than ever, I am obliged to move Venezuela's path towards socialism\". Chávez was also reelected in October 2012 for his third six-year term as President, but he died in March 2013 from cancer. After Chávez's death on 5 March 2013, Vice President from Chavez's party Nicolás Maduro assumed the powers and responsibilities of the President. A special election was held on 14 April of the same year to elect a new President, which Maduro won by a tight margin as the candidate of the United Socialist Party of Venezuela and he was formally inaugurated on 19 April. \"Pink tide\" is a term being used in contemporary 21st-century political analysis in the media and elsewhere to describe the perception that leftist ideology in general and left-wing politics in particular are increasingly influential in Latin America.\nForo de São Paulo is a conference of leftist political parties and other organisations from Latin America and the Caribbean. It was launched by the Workers' Party () of Brazil in 1990 in the city of São Paulo. The Forum of São Paulo was constituted in 1990 when the Brazilian Workers' Party approached other parties and social movements of Latin America and the Caribbean with the objective of debating the new international scenario after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the consequences of the implementation of what were taken as neoliberal policies adopted at the time by contemporary right-leaning governments in the region, the stated main objective of the conference being to argue for alternatives to neoliberalism. Among its member include current socialist and social-democratic parties currently in government in the region such as Bolivia's Movement for Socialism, Brazil's Workers Party, the Communist Party of Cuba, the Ecuadorian PAIS Alliance, the Venezuelan United Socialist Party of Venezuela, the Socialist Party of Chile, the Uruguayan Broad Front, the Nicaraguan Sandinista National Liberation Front and the salvadorean Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front.\n\nAustralia saw an increase in interest of socialism in the early 21st century, especially amongst youth. It is strongest in Victoria, where three socialist parties have merged into the Victorian Socialists, who aim to address problems in housing and public transportation.\n\nNew Zealand has a small socialist scene, mainly dominated by Trotskyist groups. The current prime minister Jacinda Ardern has publicly condemned capitalism but describes herself as a social democrat.\n\nMelanesian Socialism developed in the 1980s, inspired by African Socialism. It aims to achieve full independence from Britain and France in Melanesian territories and creation of a Melanesian federal union. It is very popular with the New Caledonia independence movement.\n\nThe Progressive Alliance is a political international founded on 22 May 2013 by political parties, the majority of whom are current or former members of the Socialist International. The organisation states the aim of becoming the global network of \"the progressive\", democratic, social-democratic, socialist and labour movement\".\n\nEarly socialist thought took influences from a diverse range of philosophies such as civic republicanism, Enlightenment rationalism, romanticism, forms of materialism, Christianity (both Catholic and Protestant), natural law and natural rights theory, utilitarianism and liberal political economy. Another philosophical basis for a lot of early socialism was the emergence of positivism during the European Enlightenment. Positivism held that both the natural and social worlds could be understood through scientific knowledge and be analyzed using scientific methods. This core outlook influenced early social scientists and different types of socialists ranging from anarchists like Peter Kropotkin to technocrats like Saint Simon.\nThe fundamental objective of socialism is to attain an advanced level of material production and therefore greater productivity, efficiency and rationality as compared to capitalism and all previous systems, under the view that an expansion of human productive capability is the basis for the extension of freedom and equality in society. Many forms of socialist theory hold that human behaviour is largely shaped by the social environment. In particular, socialism holds that social mores, values, cultural traits and economic practices are social creations and not the result of an immutable natural law. The object of their critique is thus not human avarice or human consciousness, but the material conditions and man-made social systems (i.e. the economic structure of society) that gives rise to observed social problems and inefficiencies. Bertrand Russell, often considered to be the father of analytic philosophy, identified as a socialist. Russell opposed the class struggle aspects of Marxism, viewing socialism solely as an adjustment of economic relations to accommodate modern machine production to benefit all of humanity through the progressive reduction of necessary work time.\n\nSocialists view creativity as an essential aspect of human nature and define freedom as a state of being where individuals are able to express their creativity unhindered by constraints of both material scarcity and coercive social institutions. The socialist concept of individuality is thus intertwined with the concept of individual creative expression. Karl Marx believed that expansion of the productive forces and technology was the basis for the expansion of human freedom and that socialism, being a system that is consistent with modern developments in technology, would enable the flourishing of \"free individualities\" through the progressive reduction of necessary labour time. The reduction of necessary labour time to a minimum would grant individuals the opportunity to pursue the development of their true individuality and creativity.\n\nSocialists argue that the accumulation of capital generates waste through externalities that require costly corrective regulatory measures. They also point out that this process generates wasteful industries and practices that exist only to generate sufficient demand for products to be sold at a profit (such as high-pressure advertisement), thereby creating rather than satisfying economic demand.\n\nSocialists argue that capitalism consists of irrational activity, such as the purchasing of commodities only to sell at a later time when their price appreciates, rather than for consumption, even if the commodity cannot be sold at a profit to individuals in need and therefore a crucial criticism often made by socialists is that \"making money\", or accumulation of capital, does not correspond to the satisfaction of demand (the production of use-values). The fundamental criterion for economic activity in capitalism is the accumulation of capital for reinvestment in production, but this spurs the development of new, non-productive industries that do not produce use-value and only exist to keep the accumulation process afloat (otherwise the system goes into crisis), such as the spread of the financial industry, contributing to the formation of economic bubbles.\n\nSocialists view private property relations as limiting the potential of productive forces in the economy. According to socialists, private property becomes obsolete when it concentrates into centralised, socialised institutions based on private appropriation of revenue\"—\"but based on cooperative work and internal planning in allocation of inputs\"—\"until the role of the capitalist becomes redundant. With no need for capital accumulation and a class of owners, private property in the means of production is perceived as being an outdated form of economic organisation that should be replaced by a free association of individuals based on public or common ownership of these socialised assets. Private ownership imposes constraints on planning, leading to uncoordinated economic decisions that result in business fluctuations, unemployment and a tremendous waste of material resources during crisis of overproduction.\n\nExcessive disparities in income distribution lead to social instability and require costly corrective measures in the form of redistributive taxation, which incurs heavy administrative costs while weakening the incentive to work, inviting dishonesty and increasing the likelihood of tax evasion while (the corrective measures) reduce the overall efficiency of the market economy. These corrective policies limit the incentive system of the market by providing things such as minimum wages, unemployment insurance, taxing profits and reducing the reserve army of labour, resulting in reduced incentives for capitalists to invest in more production. In essence, social welfare policies cripple capitalism and its incentive system and are thus unsustainable in the long-run. Marxists argue that the establishment of a socialist mode of production is the only way to overcome these deficiencies. Socialists and specifically Marxian socialists argue that the inherent conflict of interests between the working class and capital prevent optimal use of available human resources and leads to contradictory interest groups (labour and business) striving to influence the state to intervene in the economy in their favor at the expense of overall economic efficiency.\n\nEarly socialists (utopian socialists and Ricardian socialists) criticised capitalism for concentrating power and wealth within a small segment of society. In addition, they complained that capitalism does not utilise available technology and resources to their maximum potential in the interests of the public.\n\nKarl Marx and Friedrich Engels argued that socialism would emerge from historical necessity as capitalism rendered itself obsolete and unsustainable from increasing internal contradictions emerging from the development of the productive forces and technology. It was these advances in the productive forces combined with the old social relations of production of capitalism that would generate contradictions, leading to working-class consciousness.\n\nMarx and Engels held the view that the consciousness of those who earn a wage or salary (the working class in the broadest Marxist sense) would be moulded by their conditions of wage slavery, leading to a tendency to seek their freedom or emancipation by overthrowing ownership of the means of production by capitalists and consequently, overthrowing the state that upheld this economic order. For Marx and Engels, conditions determine consciousness and ending the role of the capitalist class leads eventually to a classless society in which the state would wither away. The Marxist conception of socialism is that of a specific historical phase that would displace capitalism and precede communism. The major characteristics of socialism (particularly as conceived by Marx and Engels after the Paris Commune of 1871) are that the proletariat would control the means of production through a workers' state erected by the workers in their interests. Economic activity would still be organised through the use of incentive systems and social classes would still exist, but to a lesser and diminishing extent than under capitalism.\n\nFor orthodox Marxists, socialism is the lower stage of communism based on the principle of \"from each according to his ability, to each according to his contribution\" while upper stage communism is based on the principle of \"from each according to his ability, to each according to his need\", the upper stage becoming possible only after the socialist stage further develops economic efficiency and the automation of production has led to a superabundance of goods and services. Marx argued that the material productive forces (in industry and commerce) brought into existence by capitalism predicated a cooperative society since production had become a mass social, collective activity of the working class to create commodities but with private ownership (the relations of production or property relations). This conflict between collective effort in large factories and private ownership would bring about a conscious desire in the working class to establish collective ownership commensurate with the collective efforts their daily experience.\n\nSocialists have taken different perspectives on the state and the role it should play in revolutionary struggles, in constructing socialism and within an established socialist economy.\n\nIn the 19th century the philosophy of state socialism was first explicitly expounded by the German political philosopher Ferdinand Lassalle. In contrast to Karl Marx's perspective of the state, Lassalle rejected the concept of the state as a class-based power structure whose main function was to preserve existing class structures. Thus Lassalle also rejected the Marxist view that the state was destined to \"wither away\". Lassalle considered the state to be an entity independent of class allegiances and an instrument of justice that would therefore be essential for achieving socialism.\n\nPreceding the Bolshevik-led revolution in Russia, many socialists including reformists, orthodox Marxist currents such as council communism, anarchists and libertarian socialists criticised the idea of using the state to conduct central planning and own the means of production as a way to establish socialism. Following the victory of Leninism in Russia, the idea of \"state socialism\" spread rapidly throughout the socialist movement and eventually state socialism came to be identified with the Soviet economic model.\n\nJoseph Schumpeter rejected the association of socialism (and social ownership) with state ownership over the means of production because the state as it exists in its current form is a product of capitalist society and cannot be transplanted to a different institutional framework. Schumpeter argued that there would be different institutions within socialism than those that exist within modern capitalism, just as feudalism had its own distinct and unique institutional forms. The state, along with concepts like property and taxation, were concepts exclusive to commercial society (capitalism) and attempting to place them within the context of a future socialist society would amount to a distortion of these concepts by using them out of context.\n\nUtopian socialism is a term used to define the first currents of modern socialist thought as exemplified by the work of Henri de Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier and Robert Owen, which inspired Karl Marx and other early socialists. However, visions of imaginary ideal societies, which competed with revolutionary social democratic movements, were viewed as not being grounded in the material conditions of society and as reactionary. Although it is technically possible for any set of ideas or any person living at any time in history to be a utopian socialist, the term is most often applied to those socialists who lived in the first quarter of the 19th century who were ascribed the label \"utopian\" by later socialists as a negative term in order to imply naivete and dismiss their ideas as fanciful or unrealistic.\n\nReligious sects whose members live communally such as the Hutterites, for example, are not usually called \"utopian socialists\", although their way of living is a prime example. They have been categorised as religious socialists by some. Likewise, modern intentional communities based on socialist ideas could also be categorised as \"utopian socialist\".\n\nFor Marxists, the development of capitalism in Western Europe provided a material basis for the possibility of bringing about socialism because according to \"The Communist Manifesto\" \"[w]hat the bourgeoisie produces above all is its own grave diggers\", namely the working class, which must become conscious of the historical objectives set it by society.\n\nRevolutionary socialists believe that a social revolution is necessary to effect structural changes to the socioeconomic structure of society. Among revolutionary socialists there are differences in strategy, theory and the definition of \"revolution\". Orthodox Marxists and left communists take an impossibilist stance, believing that revolution should be spontaneous as a result of contradictions in society due to technological changes in the productive forces. Lenin theorised that under capitalism the workers cannot achieve class consciousness beyond organising into unions and making demands of the capitalists. Therefore, Leninists advocate that it is historically necessary for a vanguard of class conscious revolutionaries to take a central role in coordinating the social revolution to overthrow the capitalist state and eventually the institution of the state altogether. \"Revolution\" is not necessarily defined by revolutionary socialists as violent insurrection, but as a complete dismantling and rapid transformation of all areas of class society led by the majority of the masses: the working class.\n\nReformism is generally associated with social democracy and gradualist democratic socialism. Reformism is the belief that socialists should stand in parliamentary elections within capitalist society and if elected utilise the machinery of government to pass political and social reforms for the purposes of ameliorating the instabilities and inequities of capitalism.\n\nSocialist economics starts from the premise that \"individuals do not live or work in isolation but live in cooperation with one another. Furthermore, everything that people produce is in some sense a social product, and everyone who contributes to the production of a good is entitled to a share in it. Society as a whole, therefore, should own or at least control property for the benefit of all its members\".\n\nThe original conception of socialism was an economic system whereby production was organised in a way to directly produce goods and services for their utility (or use-value in classical and Marxian economics): the direct allocation of resources in terms of physical units as opposed to financial calculation and the economic laws of capitalism (see law of value), often entailing the end of capitalistic economic categories such as rent, interest, profit and money. In a fully developed socialist economy, production and balancing factor inputs with outputs becomes a technical process to be undertaken by engineers.\n\nMarket socialism refers to an array of different economic theories and systems that utilise the market mechanism to organise production and to allocate factor inputs among socially owned enterprises, with the economic surplus (profits) accruing to society in a social dividend as opposed to private capital owners. Variations of market socialism include libertarian proposals such as mutualism, based on classical economics, and neoclassical economic models such as the Lange Model. However, some economists such as Joseph Stiglitz, Mancur Olson and others not specifically advancing anti-socialists positions have shown that prevailing economic models upon which such democratic or market socialism models might be based have logical flaws or unworkable presuppositions.\n\nThe ownership of the means of production can be based on direct ownership by the users of the productive property through worker cooperative; or commonly owned by all of society with management and control delegated to those who operate/use the means of production; or public ownership by a state apparatus. Public ownership may refer to the creation of state-owned enterprises, nationalisation, municipalisation or autonomous collective institutions. Some socialists feel that in a socialist economy, at least the \"\" of the economy must be publicly owned. However, economic liberals and right libertarians view private ownership of the means of production and the market exchange as natural entities or moral rights which are central to their conceptions of freedom and liberty and view the economic dynamics of capitalism as immutable and absolute, therefore they perceive public ownership of the means of production, cooperatives and economic planning as infringements upon liberty.\n\nManagement and control over the activities of enterprises are based on self-management and self-governance, with equal power-relations in the workplace to maximise occupational autonomy. A socialist form of organisation would eliminate controlling hierarchies so that only a hierarchy based on technical knowledge in the workplace remains. Every member would have decision-making power in the firm and would be able to participate in establishing its overall policy objectives. The policies/goals would be carried out by the technical specialists that form the coordinating hierarchy of the firm, who would establish plans or directives for the work community to accomplish these goals.\n\nThe role and use of money in a hypothetical socialist economy is a contested issue. According to the Austrian school economist Ludwig von Mises, an economic system that does not use money, financial calculation and market pricing would be unable to effectively value capital goods and coordinate production and therefore these types of socialism are impossible because they lack the necessary information to perform economic calculation in the first place. Socialists including Karl Marx, Robert Owen, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon and John Stuart Mill advocated various forms of labour vouchers or labour credits, which like money would be used to acquire articles of consumption, but unlike money they are unable to become capital and would not be used to allocate resources within the production process. Bolshevik revolutionary Leon Trotsky argued that money could not be arbitrarily abolished following a socialist revolution. Money had to exhaust its \"historic mission\", meaning it would have to be used until its function became redundant, eventually being transformed into bookkeeping receipts for statisticians and only in the more distant future would money not be required for even that role.\n\nA planned economy is a type of economy consisting of a mixture of public ownership of the means of production and the coordination of production and distribution through economic planning. There are two major types of planning: decentralised-planning and centralised-planning. Enrico Barone provided a comprehensive theoretical framework for a planned socialist economy. In his model, assuming perfect computation techniques, simultaneous equations relating inputs and outputs to ratios of equivalence would provide appropriate valuations in order to balance supply and demand.\n\nThe most prominent example of a planned economy was the economic system of the Soviet Union and as such the centralised-planned economic model is usually associated with the communist states of the 20th century, where it was combined with a single-party political system. In a centrally planned economy, decisions regarding the quantity of goods and services to be produced are planned in advance by a planning agency (see also the analysis of Soviet-type economic planning). The economic systems of the Soviet Union and the Eastern Bloc are further classified as \"command economies\", which are defined as systems where economic coordination is undertaken by commands, directives and production targets. Studies by economists of various political persuasions on the actual functioning of the Soviet economy indicate that it was not actually a planned economy. Instead of conscious planning, the Soviet economy was based on a process whereby the plan was modified by localised agents and the original plans went largely unfulfilled. Planning agencies, ministries and enterprises all adapted and bargained with each other during the formulation of the plan as opposed to following a plan passed down from a higher authority, leading some economists to suggest that planning did not actually take place within the Soviet economy and that a better description would be an \"administered\" or \"managed\" economy.\n\nAlthough central planning was largely supported by Marxist–Leninists, some factions within the Soviet Union before the rise of Stalinism held positions contrary to central planning. Leon Trotsky rejected central planning in favour of decentralised planning. He argued that central planners, regardless of their intellectual capacity, would be unable to coordinate effectively all economic activity within an economy because they operated without the input and tacit knowledge embodied by the participation of the millions of people in the economy. As a result, central planners would be unable to respond to local economic conditions. State socialism is unfeasible in this view because information cannot be aggregated by a central body and effectively used to formulate a plan for an entire economy, because doing so would result in distorted or absent price signals.\n\nA self-managed, decentralised economy is based on autonomous self-regulating economic units and a decentralised mechanism of resource allocation and decision-making. This model has found support in notable classical and neoclassical economists including Alfred Marshall, John Stuart Mill and Jaroslav Vanek. There are numerous variations of self-management, including labour-managed firms and worker-managed firms. The goals of self-management are to eliminate exploitation and reduce alienation. Guild socialism is a political movement advocating workers' control of industry through the medium of trade-related guilds \"in an implied contractual relationship with the public\". It originated in the United Kingdom and was at its most influential in the first quarter of the 20th century. It was strongly associated with G. D. H. Cole and influenced by the ideas of William Morris.\n\nOne such system is the cooperative economy, a largely free market economy in which workers manage the firms and democratically determine remuneration levels and labour divisions. Productive resources would be legally owned by the cooperative and rented to the workers, who would enjoy usufruct rights. Another form of decentralised planning is the use of cybernetics, or the use of computers to manage the allocation of economic inputs. The socialist-run government of Salvador Allende in Chile experimented with Project Cybersyn, a real-time information bridge between the government, state enterprises and consumers. Another, more recent variant is participatory economics, wherein the economy is planned by decentralised councils of workers and consumers. Workers would be remunerated solely according to effort and sacrifice, so that those engaged in dangerous, uncomfortable and strenuous work would receive the highest incomes and could thereby work less. A contemporary model for a self-managed, non-market socialism is Pat Devine's model of negotiated coordination. Negotiated coordination is based upon social ownership by those affected by the use of the assets involved, with decisions made by those at the most localised level of production.\n\nMichel Bauwens identifies the emergence of the open software movement and peer-to-peer production as a new alternative mode of production to the capitalist economy and centrally planned economy that is based on collaborative self-management, common ownership of resources and the production of use-values through the free cooperation of producers who have access to distributed capital.\n\nAnarcho-communism is a theory of anarchism which advocates the abolition of the state, private property and capitalism in favour of common ownership of the means of production. Anarcho-syndicalism was practiced in Catalonia and other places in the Spanish Revolution during the Spanish Civil War. Sam Dolgoff estimated that about eight million people participated directly or at least indirectly in the Spanish Revolution.\n\nThe economy of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia established a system based on market-based allocation, social ownership of the means of production and self-management within firms. This system substituted Yugoslavia's Soviet-type central planning with a decentralised, self-managed system after reforms in 1953.\n\nThe Marxian economist Richard D. Wolff argues that \"re-organising production so that workers become collectively self-directed at their work-sites\" not only moves society beyond both capitalism and state socialism of the last century, but would also mark another milestone in human history, similar to earlier transitions out of slavery and feudalism. As an example, Wolff claims that Mondragon is \"a stunningly successful alternative to the capitalist organisation of production\".\n\nState socialism can be used to classify any variety of socialist philosophies that advocates the ownership of the means of production by the state apparatus, either as a transitional stage between capitalism and socialism, or as an end-goal in itself. Typically it refers to a form of technocratic management, whereby technical specialists administer or manage economic enterprises on behalf of society (and the public interest) instead of workers' councils or workplace democracy.\n\nA state-directed economy may refer to a type of mixed economy consisting of public ownership over large industries, as promoted by various Social democratic political parties during the 20th century. This ideology influenced the policies of the British Labour Party during Clement Attlee's administration. In the biography of the 1945 United Kingdom Labour Party Prime Minister Clement Attlee, Francis Beckett states: \"[T]he government... wanted what would become known as a mixed economy\".\n\nNationalisation in the United Kingdom was achieved through compulsory purchase of the industry (i.e. with compensation). British Aerospace was a combination of major aircraft companies British Aircraft Corporation, Hawker Siddeley and others. British Shipbuilders was a combination of the major shipbuilding companies including Cammell Laird, Govan Shipbuilders, Swan Hunter and Yarrow Shipbuilders, whereas the nationalisation of the coal mines in 1947 created a coal board charged with running the coal industry commercially so as to be able to meet the interest payable on the bonds which the former mine owners' shares had been converted into.\n\nMarket socialism consists of publicly owned or cooperatively owned enterprises operating in a market economy. It is a system that utilises the market and monetary prices for the allocation and accounting of the means of production, thereby retaining the process of capital accumulation. The profit generated would be used to directly remunerate employees, collectively sustain the enterprise or finance public institutions. In state-oriented forms of market socialism, in which state enterprises attempt to maximise profit, the profits can be used to fund government programs and services through a social dividend, eliminating or greatly diminishing the need for various forms of taxation that exist in capitalist systems. Neoclassical economist Léon Walras believed that a socialist economy based on state ownership of land and natural resources would provide a means of public finance to make income taxes unnecessary. Yugoslavia implemented a market socialist economy based on cooperatives and worker self-management.\nMutualism is an economic theory and anarchist school of thought that advocates a society where each person might possess a means of production, either individually or collectively, with trade representing equivalent amounts of labour in the free market. Integral to the scheme was the establishment of a mutual-credit bank that would lend to producers at a minimal interest rate, just high enough to cover administration. Mutualism is based on a labour theory of value that holds that when labour or its product is sold, in exchange it ought to receive goods or services embodying \"the amount of labour necessary to produce an article of exactly similar and equal utility\".\n\nThe current economic system in China is formally referred to as a socialist market economy with Chinese characteristics. It combines a large state sector that comprises the commanding heights of the economy, which are guaranteed their public ownership status by law, with a private sector mainly engaged in commodity production and light industry responsible from anywhere between 33% to over 70% of GDP generated in 2005. Although there has been a rapid expansion of private-sector activity since the 1980s, privatisation of state assets was virtually halted and were partially reversed in 2005. The current Chinese economy consists of 150 corporatised state-owned enterprises that report directly to China's central government. By 2008, these state-owned corporations had become increasingly dynamic and generated large increases in revenue for the state, resulting in a state-sector led recovery during the 2009 financial crises while accounting for most of China's economic growth. However, the Chinese economic model is widely cited as a contemporary form of state capitalism, the major difference between Western capitalism and the Chinese model being the degree of state-ownership of shares in publicly listed corporations.\n\nThe Socialist Republic of Vietnam has adopted a similar model after the Doi Moi economic renovation, but slightly differs from the Chinese model in that the Vietnamese government retains firm control over the state sector and strategic industries, but allows for private-sector activity in commodity production.\n\nThe major socialist political movements are described below. Independent socialist theorists, utopian socialist authors and academic supporters of socialism may not be represented in these movements. Some political groups have called themselves socialist while holding views that some consider antithetical to socialism. The term \"socialist\" has also been used by some politicians on the political right as an epithet against certain individuals who do not consider themselves to be socialists and against policies that are not considered socialist by their proponents.\n\nThere are many variations of socialism and as such there is no single definition encapsulating all of socialism. However, there have been common elements identified by scholars. In his \"Dictionary of Socialism\" (1924), Angelo S. Rappoport analysed forty definitions of socialism to conclude that common elements of socialism include: general criticisms of the social effects of private ownership and control of capital – as being the cause of poverty, low wages, unemployment, economic and social inequality and a lack of economic security; a general view that the solution to these problems is a form of collective control over the means of production, distribution and exchange (the degree and means of control vary amongst socialist movements); an agreement that the outcome of this collective control should be a society based upon social justice, including social equality, economic protection of people and should provide a more satisfying life for most people. In \"The Concepts of Socialism\" (1975), Bhikhu Parekh identifies four core principles of socialism and particularly socialist society: sociality, social responsibility, cooperation and planning. In his study \"Ideologies and Political Theory\" (1996), Michael Freeden states that all socialists share five themes: the first is that socialism posits that society is more than a mere collection of individuals; second, that it considers human welfare a desirable objective; third, that it considers humans by nature to be active and productive; fourth, it holds the belief of human equality; and fifth, that history is progressive and will create positive change on the condition that humans work to achieve such change.\n\nAnarchism is a political philosophy that advocates stateless societies often defined as self-governed voluntary institutions, but that several authors have defined as more specific institutions based on non-hierarchical free associations. Anarchism holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary or harmful. While anti-statism is central, some argue that anarchism entails opposing authority or hierarchical organisation in the conduct of human relations including, but not limited to, the state system. Mutualists advocate market socialism, collectivist anarchists workers cooperatives and salaries based on the amount of time contributed to production, anarcho-communists advocate a direct transition from capitalism to libertarian communism and a gift economy and anarcho-syndicalists worker's direct action and the general strike.\n\nModern democratic socialism is a broad political movement that seeks to promote the ideals of socialism within the context of a democratic system. Some democratic socialists support social democracy as a temporary measure to reform the current system while others reject reformism in favour of more revolutionary methods. Modern social democracy emphasises a program of gradual legislative modification of capitalism in order to make it more equitable and humane, while the theoretical end goal of building a socialist society is either completely forgotten or redefined in a pro-capitalist way. The two movements are widely similar both in terminology and in ideology, although there are a few key differences.\n\nThe major difference between social democracy and democratic socialism is the object of their politics: contemporary social democrats support a welfare state and unemployment insurance as a means to \"humanise\" capitalism, whereas democratic socialists seek to replace capitalism with a socialist economic system, arguing that any attempt to \"humanise\" capitalism through regulations and welfare policies would distort the market and create economic contradictions.\n\nDemocratic socialism generally refers to any political movement that seeks to establish an economy based on economic democracy by and for the working class. Democratic socialism is difficult to define and groups of scholars have radically different definitions for the term. Some definitions simply refer to all forms of socialism that follow an electoral, reformist or evolutionary path to socialism rather than a revolutionary one.\n\nBlanquism refers to a conception of revolution generally attributed to Louis Auguste Blanqui which holds that socialist revolution should be carried out by a relatively small group of highly organised and secretive conspirators. Having seized power, the revolutionaries would then use the power of the state to introduce socialism. It is considered a particular sort of \"putschism\"—that is, the view that political revolution should take the form of a \"putsch\" or \"coup d'état\". Rosa Luxemburg and Eduard Bernstein have criticised Vladimir Lenin that his conception of revolution was elitist and essentially Blanquist. Marxism–Leninism is a political ideology combining Marxism (the scientific socialist concepts theorised by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels) and Leninism (Lenin's theoretical expansions of Marxism which include anti-imperialism, democratic centralism and party-building principles). Marxism–Leninism was the official ideology of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and of the Communist International (1919–1943) and later it became the main guiding ideology for Trotskyists, Maoists and Stalinists.\n\nLibertarian socialism (sometimes called social anarchism, left-libertarianism and socialist libertarianism) is a group of anti-authoritarian political philosophies inside the socialist movement that rejects socialism as centralised state ownership and control of the economy including criticism of wage labour relationships within the workplace, as well as the state itself. It emphasises workers' self-management of the workplace and decentralised structures of political organisation, asserting that a society based on freedom and equality can be achieved through abolishing authoritarian institutions that control certain means of production and subordinate the majority to an owning class or political and economic elite. Libertarian socialists generally place their hopes in decentralised means of direct democracy and federal or confederal associations such as libertarian municipalism, citizens' assemblies, trade unions, and workers' councils. Relatedly, anarcho-syndicalist Gaston Leval explained: \"We therefore foresee a Society in which all activities will be coordinated, a structure that has, at the same time, sufficient flexibility to permit the greatest possible autonomy for social life, or for the life of each enterprise, and enough cohesiveness to prevent all disorder...In a well-organized society, all of these things must be systematically accomplished by means of parallel federations, vertically united at the highest levels, constituting one vast organism in which all economic functions will be performed in solidarity with all others and that will permanently preserve the necessary cohesion\". All of this is generally done within a general call for libertarian and voluntary human relationships through the identification, criticism and practical dismantling of illegitimate authority in all aspects of human life. As such, libertarian socialism within the larger socialist movement seeks to distinguish itself both from Leninism/Bolshevism and from social democracy.\n\nPast and present political philosophies and movements commonly described as libertarian socialist include anarchism (especially anarchist communism, anarchist collectivism, anarcho-syndicalism and mutualism) as well as autonomism, Communalism, participism, revolutionary syndicalism and libertarian Marxist philosophies such as council communism and Luxemburgism; as well as some versions of utopian socialism and individualist anarchism.\n\nChristian socialism is a broad concept involving an intertwining of the Christian religion with the politics and economic theories of socialism.\n\nIslamic socialism is a term coined by various Muslim leaders to describe a more spiritual form of socialism. Muslim socialists believe that the teachings of the Qur'an and Muhammad are compatible with principles of equality and public ownership drawing inspiration from the early Medina welfare state established by Muhammad. Muslim socialists are more conservative than their western contemporaries and find their roots in anti-imperialism, anti-colonialism and Arab nationalism. Islamic socialist leaders believe in democracy and deriving legitimacy from public mandate as opposed to religious texts.\n\nSocial democracy is a political ideology which \"is derived from a socialist tradition of political thought. Many social democrats refer to themselves as socialists or democratic socialists, and some, for example Tony Blair, use or have used these terms interchangeably. Others have opined that there are clear differences between the three terms, and preferred to describe their own political beliefs by using the term ‘social democracy’ only\". There are two main directions, either to establish democratic socialism, or to build a welfare state within the framework of the capitalist system. The first variant has officially its goal by establishing democratic socialism through reformist and gradualist methods. In the second variant, social democracy becomes a policy regime involving a welfare state, collective bargaining schemes, support for publicly financed public services and a capitalist-based economy like a mixed economy. It is often used in this manner to refer to the social models and economic policies prominent in Western and Northern Europe during the later half of the 20th century. It has been described by Jerry Mander as \"hybrid\" economics, an active collaboration of capitalist and socialist visions and while such systems are not perfect they tend to provide high standards of living. Numerous studies and surveys indicate that people tend to live happier lives in social democratic societies rather than neoliberal ones.\nSocial democrats supporting the first variant advocate for a peaceful, evolutionary transition of the economy to socialism through progressive social reform of capitalism. It asserts that the only acceptable constitutional form of government is representative democracy under the rule of law. It promotes extending democratic decision-making beyond political democracy to include economic democracy to guarantee employees and other economic stakeholders sufficient rights of co-determination. It supports a mixed economy that opposes the excesses of capitalism such as inequality, poverty and oppression of various groups, while rejecting both a totally free market or a fully planned economy. Common social democratic policies include advocacy of universal social rights to attain universally accessible public services such as education, health care, workers' compensation and other services, including child care and care for the elderly. Social democracy is connected with the trade union labour movement and supports collective bargaining rights for workers. Most social democratic parties are affiliated with the Socialist International.\n\nLiberal socialism is a socialist political philosophy that includes liberal principles within it. Liberal socialism does not have the goal of abolishing capitalism with a socialist economy, instead it supports a mixed economy that includes both public and private property in capital goods. Although liberal socialism unequivocally favors a mixed market economy, it identifies legalistic and artificial monopolies to be the fault of capitalism and opposes an entirely unregulated economy. It considers both liberty and equality to be compatible and mutually dependent on each other. Principles that can be described as \"liberal socialist\" have been based upon or developed by the following philosophers: John Stuart Mill, Eduard Bernstein, John Dewey, Carlo Rosselli, Norberto Bobbio and Chantal Mouffe. Other important liberal socialist figures include Guido Calogero, Piero Gobetti, Leonard Trelawny Hobhouse, John Maynard Keynes and R. H. Tawney. Liberal socialism has been particularly prominent in British and Italian politics.\n\nSocialist feminism is a branch of feminism that focuses upon both the public and private spheres of a woman's life and argues that liberation can only be achieved by working to end both the economic and cultural sources of women's oppression. Marxist feminism's foundation is laid by Friedrich Engels in his analysis of gender oppression in \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State\" (1884). August Bebel's \"Woman under Socialism\" (1879), the \"single work dealing with sexuality most widely read by rank-and-file members of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD)\". In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, both Clara Zetkin and Eleanor Marx were against the demonisation of men and supported a proletariat revolution that would overcome as many male-female inequalities as possible. As their movement already had the most radical demands in women's equality, most Marxist leaders, including Clara Zetkin and Alexandra Kollontai, counterposed Marxism against liberal feminism rather than trying to combine them. Anarcha-feminism began with late 19th and early 20th century authors and theorists such as anarchist feminists Emma Goldman and Voltairine de Cleyre In the Spanish Civil War, an anarcha-feminist group, (\"Free Women\") linked to the , organised to defend both anarchist and feminist ideas. In 1972, the Chicago Women's Liberation Union published \"Socialist Feminism: A Strategy for the Women's Movement\", which is believed to be the first to use the term \"socialist feminism\" in publication.\nMany socialists were early advocates for LGBT rights. For early socialist Charles Fourier, true freedom could only occur without suppressing passions, as the suppression of passions is not only destructive to the individual, but to society as a whole. Writing before the advent of the term \"homosexuality\", Fourier recognised that both men and women have a wide range of sexual needs and preferences which may change throughout their lives, including same-sex sexuality and \"androgénité\". He argued that all sexual expressions should be enjoyed as long as people are not abused and that \"affirming one's difference\" can actually enhance social integration. In Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man Under Socialism\", he passionately advocates for an egalitarian society where wealth is shared by all, while warning of the dangers of social systems that crush individuality. Wilde's libertarian socialist politics were shared by other figures who actively campaigned for homosexual emancipation in the late 19th century such as Edward Carpenter. \"The Intermediate Sex: A Study of Some Transitional Types of Men and Women\" was a book from 1908 and an early work arguing for gay liberation written by Edward Carpenter who was also an influential personality in the foundation of the Fabian Society and the Labour Party. After the Russian Revolution under the leadership of Vladimir Lenin and Leon Trotsky, the Soviet Union abolished previous laws against homosexuality. Harry Hay was an early leader in the American LGBT rights movement as well as a member of the Communist Party USA. He is known for his roles in helping to found several gay organisations, including the Mattachine Society, the first sustained gay rights group in the United States which in its early days had a strong marxist influence. The \"Encyclopedia of Homosexuality\" reports that \"[a]s Marxists the founders of the group believed that the injustice and oppression which they suffered stemmed from relationships deeply embedded in the structure of American society\". Also emerging from a number of events, such as the May 1968 insurrection in France, the anti-Vietnam war movement in the United States and the Stonewall riots of 1969, militant gay liberation organisations began to spring up around the world. Many saw their roots in left radicalism more than in the established homophile groups of the time, though the Gay Liberation Front took an anti-capitalist stance and attacked the nuclear family and traditional gender roles.\n\nEco-socialism, green socialism or socialist ecology is a political position merging aspects of Marxism, socialism and/or libertarian socialism with that of green politics, ecology and alter-globalisation. Eco-socialists generally believe that the expansion of the capitalist system is the cause of social exclusion, poverty, war and environmental degradation through globalisation and imperialism, under the supervision of repressive states and transnational structures. Contrary to the depiction of Karl Marx by some environmentalists, social ecologists and fellow socialists as a productivist who favoured the domination of nature, eco-socialists have revisited Marx's writings and believe that he \"was a main originator of the ecological world-view\". Eco-socialist authors, like John Bellamy Foster and Paul Burkett, point to Marx's discussion of a \"metabolic rift\" between man and nature, his statement that \"private ownership of the globe by single individuals will appear quite absurd as private ownership of one man by another\" and his observation that a society must \"hand it [the planet] down to succeeding generations in an improved condition\". The English socialist William Morris is largely credited with developing key principles of what was later called eco-socialism. During the 1880s and 1890s, Morris promoted his eco-socialist ideas within the Social Democratic Federation and Socialist League. Green anarchism, or ecoanarchism, is a school of thought within anarchism which puts a particular emphasis on environmental issues. An important early influence was the thought of the American anarchist Henry David Thoreau and his book \"Walden\" and Élisée Reclus.\n\nIn the late 19th century, there emerged anarcho-naturism as the fusion of anarchism and naturist philosophies within individualist anarchist circles in France, Spain, Cuba and Portugal. Social ecology is closely related to the work and ideas of Murray Bookchin and influenced by anarchist Peter Kropotkin. Bookchin's first book, \"Our Synthetic Environment,\" was published under the pseudonym Lewis Herber in 1962, a few months before Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\". His groundbreaking essay \"Ecology and Revolutionary Thought\" introduced ecology as a concept in radical politics. In the 1970s, Barry Commoner, suggesting a left-wing response to the \"Limits to Growth\" model that predicted catastrophic resource depletion and spurred environmentalism, postulated that capitalist technologies were chiefly responsible for environmental degradation as opposed to population pressures. The 1990s saw the socialist feminists Mary Mellor and Ariel Salleh address environmental issues within an eco-socialist paradigm. With the rising profile of the anti-globalisation movement in the Global South, an \"environmentalism of the poor\" combining ecological awareness and social justice has also become prominent. In 1994, David Pepper also released his important work, \"Ecosocialism: From Deep Ecology to Social Justice\", which critiques the current approach of many within green politics, particularly deep ecologists. Currently, many green parties around the world, such as the Dutch Green Left Party (GroenLinks), contain strong eco-socialist elements. Radical red-green alliances have been formed in many countries by eco-socialists, radical greens and other radical left groups. In Denmark, the Red-Green Alliance was formed as a coalition of numerous radical parties. Within the European Parliament, a number of far-left parties from Northern Europe have organised themselves into the Nordic Green Left Alliance.\n\nSyndicalism is a social movement that operates through industrial trade unions and rejects state socialism and the use of establishment politics to establish or promote socialism. They reject using state power to construct a socialist society, favouring strategies such as the general strike. Syndicalists advocate a socialist economy based on federated unions or syndicates of workers who own and manage the means of production. Some Marxist currents advocate syndicalism, such as DeLeonism. Anarcho-syndicalism is a theory of anarchism which views syndicalism as a method for workers in capitalist society to gain control of an economy and with that control influence broader society. The Spanish Revolution largely orchestrated by the anarcho-syndicalist trade union CNT during the Spanish Civil War offers an historical example. The International Workers' Association is an international federation of anarcho-syndicalist labour unions and initiatives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31110925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31110925", "title": "Spider (Bourgeois)", "text": "Spider (Bourgeois)\n\nSpider is a sculpture by Louise Bourgeois.\nExecuted in 1996 as an edition of six and cast in 1997; bronze with a silver nitrate patina, with the first of the edition being steel.\nAn example was acquired by the Denver Art Museum for its new addition in 2006.\nOther locations in permanent collections include the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington DC, and the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art, Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nThe steel \"Spider\" was exhibited at Musée d'art contemporain de Montréal from April to September, 1996. Various editions of this artwork have traveled extensively, including an example shown at the Hermitage Museum in 2001.\n\nIn 2006, Bourgeois became the highest-paid living woman artist after a \"Spider\" sold for $4 million at Christie's in London; which was surpassed in 2008, when another \"Spider\" sold for $4.5 million. A new record price for the artist was achieved when \"Spider\" number two acquired from Gallery Paule Anglim, San Francisco, was auctioned by a private collector with an estimate of $4 million to $6 million. The price realized at Christie's on 8 November 2011 was $10,722,500. This is the highest price paid for an artwork by a woman artist at the time. This was surpassed in 2015 by a \"Spider\" auctioned by Christie's for $28.2 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "2766955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2766955", "title": "Sydney Mint", "text": "Sydney Mint\n\nThe Sydney Mint in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, is the oldest public building in the Sydney central business district. Built between 1811 and 1816 as the southern wing of the Sydney Hospital, it was then known as the \"Rum Hospital\". In 1854 a mint was established on the site with the hospital building used to house mint staff as well as providing a residence for the Deputy Mint Master. A coining factory was built at the rear. Both of these structures have exceptional heritage significance and have been associated with major events in the colonial history of New South Wales. \n\nLocated in Sydney’s central business district at 10 Macquarie Street, it is near many other famous Australian historical buildings including Hyde Park Barracks, St James' Church and Parliament House. The building is now the head office of the Historic Houses Trust of New South Wales and is listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register. Sections of the building are open to the public.\n\nIn 1811, Governor Lachlan Macquarie commenced planning for a new general hospital in Sydney which was to be his first major public building. The contractors were paid with 45,000 gallons of rum hence the name \"Rum Hospital\". Construction was completed in 1816.\n\nIts design is loosely based on ancient Greek architecture with its two tiers of columns made of cedar timber in the style of Doric mouldings. The columns are angled inwards creating an optical illusion imitating the Parthenon in Athens, Greece.\n\nA dispensary opened in 1842 replacing the south wing after which the rest of the site was used as a military hospital until 1854.\nThe British Secretary of State gave acceptance to the colonial government to establish a mint in Sydney which was to be the first branch of the Royal Mint outside England. The rear side of the mint became the coining factory. There were frequently major upgrades on the mint during the late 1800s and the early 1900s. However, by 1926, with the Melbourne and Perth Mints having much better technology and being more profitable, the mint was closed.\n\nIn 1854, 19 year old William Stanley Jevons and Francis Bowyer Miller were appointed Assayers to the Mint. Captain Edward Wolstenholme, of Royal Engineers, was appointed Deputy Master and Chief Officer, Charles Elonis Superintendent of the Bullion Office, Joseph Trickett Superintendent of the Coining Department, Robert Huat First Clerk in the Bullion Office and Elliott Knipe Registrar and Accountant.\n\nThe Government Insurance Office moved into the building as soon as the Mint closed. Soon other government offices followed, including the Local Government Superannuation Board, the Electrical Contractors and Licensing Board and the Family Endowment Department. Government offices kept arriving and going for another fifty years. Gradually these buildings were being demolished.\n\nIt was expected that law courts would be established after the demolitions, however activists successfully led a campaign in 1979 to preserve the Mint buildings as well as Hyde Park Barracks. The premier of New South Wales, Neville Wran, announced that the Mint would come under control of the Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences. The museum closed down in 1997 and the building’s ownership was transferred to the Historic Houses Trust.\n\nThe Mint was recently named as one of 30 projects that have reshaped the built environment since 1978. \"The refurbishment project is an example of the Integration of services systems (by Steensen Varming ), to provide a modern, functional headquarters while minimising the impact on the heritage and archaeological fabric of a site.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35926557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35926557", "title": "The Cambridge Edition of the Letters of Ernest Hemingway", "text": "The Cambridge Edition of the Letters of Ernest Hemingway\n\nThe Cambridge Edition of the Letters of Ernest Hemingway is an ongoing scholarly multi-volume publication of the letters of Ernest Hemingway undertaken by the Cambridge University Press. Out of the projected 16 volumes, the first volume, covering years from 1907 to 1922, was published in 2011. The project, when completed, will collect every extant Hemingway letter, numbering over 6,000, and is being edited by Sandra Spanier, professor of English at Pennsylvania State University. The second volume, covering years from 1923 to 1925, was scheduled to be published in the fall of 2013. The project may take 20 years to finish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "299976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299976", "title": "The Cloisters", "text": "The Cloisters\n\nThe Cloisters is a museum in Fort Tryon Park in Washington Heights, Manhattan, New York City, specializing in European medieval architecture, sculpture and decorative arts, with a focus on the Romanesque and Gothic periods. Governed by the Metropolitan Museum of Art, it contains a large collection of medieval artworks shown in the architectural settings of French monasteries and abbeys. Its buildings are centered around four cloisters—the Cuxa, Saint-Guilhem, Bonnefont and Trie—which were purchased by American sculptor and art dealer George Grey Barnard, dismantled in Europe between 1934 and 1939, and moved to New York. They were acquired for the museum by financier and philanthropist John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Other major sources of objects were the collections of J. P. Morgan and Joseph Brummer.\n\nThe museum's building was designed by architect Charles Collens, on a site on a steep hill, with upper and lower levels. It contains medieval gardens and a series of chapels and themed galleries, including the Romanesque, Fuentidueña, Unicorn, Spanish and Gothic rooms. The design, layout and ambiance of the building is intended to evoke a sense of medieval European monastic life.\n\nIt holds about 5,000 works of art and architecture, all European and mostly dating from the Byzantine to the early Renaissance periods, mainly during the 12th through 15th centuries. The varied objects include stone and wood sculptures, tapestries, illuminated manuscripts and panel paintings, of which the best known include the c. 1422 Early Netherlandish \"Mérode Altarpiece\" and the c. 1495–1505 Flemish \"Hunt of the Unicorn\" tapestries.\n\nRockefeller purchased the museum site in Washington Heights in 1930, and donated it and the Bayard collection to the Metropolitan in 1931. Upon its opening on May 10, 1938, the Cloisters was described as a collection \"shown informally in a picturesque setting, which stimulates imagination and creates a receptive mood for enjoyment\".\n\nThe basis for the museum's architectural structure came from the collection of George Grey Barnard, an American sculptor and collector who almost single-handedly established a medieval art museum near his home in the Fort Washington section of Upper Manhattan. Although he was a successful sculptor who had studied at the Art Institute of Chicago, his income was not enough to support his family. Barnard was a risk taker and led most of his life on the edge of poverty. He moved to Paris in 1883 where he studied at the Académie des Beaux-Arts. He lived in the village of Moret-sur-Loing, near Fontainebleau, between 1905 and 1913, and began to deal in 13th- and 14th-century European objects to supplement his earnings. In the process he built a large personal collection of what he described as \"antiques\", at first by buying and selling stand-alone objects with French dealers, then by the acquisition of \"in situ\" architectural artifacts from local farmers.\nBarnard was primarily interested in the abbeys and churches founded by monastic orders from the 12th century. Following centuries of pillage and destruction during wars and revolutions, stones from many of these buildings were reused by local populations. A pioneer in seeing the value in such artifacts, Barnard often met with hostility to his effort from local and governmental groups. Yet he was an astute negotiator who had the advantage of a professional sculptor's eye for superior stone carving, and by 1907 he had built a high-quality collection at relatively low cost. Reputedly he paid $25,000 for the Trie buildings, $25,000 for the Bonnefort and $100,000 for the Cuxa cloisters. His success led him to adopt a somewhat romantic view of himself. He recalled bicycling across the French countryside and unearthing fallen and long-forgotten Gothic masterworks along the way. He claimed to have found the tomb effigy of Jean d'Alluye face down, in use as a bridge over a small stream. By 1914 he had gathered enough artifacts to open a gallery in Manhattan.\nBarnard often neglected his personal finances, and was so disorganized that he often misplaced the origin or provenance of his purchases. He sold his collection to John D. Rockefeller Jr. in 1925 during one of his recurring monetary crises. The two had been introduced by the architect William W. Bosworth. Purchased for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the acquisition included structures that would become the foundation and core of the museum. Rockefeller and Barnard were polar opposites in both temperament and outlook and did not get along; Rockefeller was reserved, Barnard exuberant. The English painter and art critic Roger Fry was then the Metropolitan's chief European acquisition agent and acted as an intermediary. Rockefeller eventually acquired Barnard's collection for around $700,000, retaining Barnard as an advisor.\n\nIn 1927 Rockefeller hired Frederick Law Olmsted Jr., son of one of the designers of Central Park, and the Olmsted Brothers firm to create a park in the Fort Washington area. In February 1930 Rockefeller offered to build the Cloisters for the Metropolitan. Under consultation with Bosworth, he decided to build the museum at a site at Fort Tryon Park, which they choose for its elevation, views, and accessible but isolated location. The land and existing buildings were purchased that year from the C. K. G. Billings estate and other holdings in the Fort Washington area. The Cloisters building and adjacent gardens were designed by Charles Collens. They incorporate elements from abbeys in Catalonia and France. Parts from Sant Miquel de Cuixà, Saint-Guilhem-le-Désert, Bonnefont-en-Comminges, Trie-sur-Baïse and Froville were disassembled stone-by-stone and shipped to New York City, where they were reconstructed and integrated into a cohesive whole. Construction took place over a five-year period from 1934. Rockefeller bought several hundred acres of the New Jersey Palisades, which he donated to the State in an effort to preserve the view from the museum. The Cloisters' new building and gardens were officially opened on May 10, 1938, though the public was not allowed to visit until four days later.\n\nRockefeller financed the purchase of many of the early collection of works, often buying independently and then donating the items to the museum. His financing of the museum has led to it being described as \"perhaps the supreme example of curatorial genius working in exquisite harmony with vast wealth.\" The second major donor was the industrialist J. P. Morgan, founder of the Morgan Library & Museum in New York, who spent the last 20 years of his life acquiring artworks, \"on an imperial scale\" according to art historian Jean Strous, spending some $900 million (inflation adjusted) in total. After his death, his son J. P. Morgan Jr. donated a large number of works from the collection to the Metropolitan.\n\nAnother major early source of objects was the art dealer Joseph Brummer (1883–1947), long a friend of a curator at the Cloisters, James Rorimer. Rorimer had long recognized the importance of Brummer's collection, and purchased large quantities of objects in the months after Brummer's sudden death in 1947. According to Christine E. Brennan of the Metropolitan, Rorimer realized that the collection offered works that could rival the Morgan Collection in the Metropolitan's Main Building, and that \"the decision to form a treasury at The Cloisters was reached... because it had been the only opportunity since the late 1920s to enrich the collection with so many liturgical and secular objects of such high quality.\" These pieces, including works in gold, silver and ivory, are today held in the Treasury room of the Cloisters.\n\nThe museum's collection of artworks consists of approximately five thousand individual pieces. They are displayed across a series of rooms and spaces, mostly separate from those dedicated to the installed architectural artifacts. The Cloisters has never focused on building a collection of masterpieces, rather the objects are chosen thematically yet arranged simply to enhance the atmosphere created by the architectural elements in the particular setting or room in which they are placed. To create the atmosphere of a functioning series of cloisters, many of the individual works, including capitals, doorways, stained glass and windows are placed within the architectural elements themselves.\n\nThe museum's best-known panel painting is Robert Campin's c. 1425–28 \"Mérode Altarpiece\", a foundational work in the development of Early Netherlandish painting, which has been at The Cloisters since 1956. It acquisition was funded by Rockefeller and described at the time as a \"major event for the history of collecting in the United States\". The triptych is well preserved with little overpainting, glossing, dirt layers or paint loss. Other panel paintings in the collection include a Nativity triptych altarpiece attributed to a follower of Rogier van der Weyden, and the \"Jumieges panels\" by an unknown French master.\n\nThe 12th-century English walrus ivory Cloisters Cross contains over ninety-two intricately carved figures and ninety-eight inscriptions. A similar 12th-century French metalwork reliquary cross contains six sequences of engravings on either side of its shaft, and across the four sides of its lower arms. Further pieces of note include a 13th-century, English \"Enthroned Virgin and Child\" statuette, a c. 1490 German statue of Saint Barbara, and an early 16th-century boxwood Miniature Altarpiece with the Crucifixion. Other significant works include fountains and baptismal fonts, chairs, aquamaniles (water containers in animal or human form), bronze lavers, alms boxes and playing cards.\n\nThe museum has an extensive collection of medieval European frescoes, ivory statuettes, reliquary wood and metal shrines and crosses, as well as examples of the very rare Gothic boxwood miniatures. It has liturgical metalwork vessels and rare pieces of Gothic furniture and metalwork. Many pieces are not associated with a particular architectural setting, so their placement in the museum may vary. Some of the objects have dramatic provenance, including those plundered from the estates of aristocrats during the French Revolutionary Army's occupation of the Southern Netherlands. The Unicorn tapestries were for a period used by the French army to cover potatoes and keep them from freezing. The set was purchased by Rockefeller in 1922 and six of the tapestries hung in his New York home until donated to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1938.\n\nThe museum's collection of illuminated books is small, but of exceptional quality. J.P. Morgan was a major early donor, but although his taste leaned heavily towards rare printed and illuminated books, he donated very few to the Metropolitan, instead preserving them at the Morgan Library. At the same time, the consensus within the Met was that the Cloisters should focus on architectural elements, sculpture and decorative arts to enhance the environmental quality of the institution, whereas manuscripts were considered more suited to the Morgan Library in lower Manhattan. The Cloisters' books are today displayed in the Treasury room, and include the French \"Cloisters Apocalypse\" (or \"Book of Revelation\", c. 1330, probably Normandy), Jean Pucelle's \"Hours of Jeanne d'Evreux\" (c. 1324–28), the \"Psalter of Bonne de Luxembourg\", attributed to Jean Le Noir and the \"Belles Heures du Duc de Berry\" (c. 1399–1416) attributed to the Limbourg brothers. In 2015 the Cloisters acquired a small Netherlandish Book of Hours illuminated by Simon Bening. Each is of exceptional quality, and their acquisition was a significant achievement for the museum's early collectors.\nA coat of arms illustrated on one of the leaves of the \"Cloisters Apocalypse\" suggests it was commissioned by a member of the de Montigny family of Coutances, Normandy. Stylistically it resembles other Norman illuminated books, as well as some designs on stained glass, of the period. The book was in Switzerland by 1368, possibly at the abbey of Zofingen, in the canton of Aargau. It was acquired by the Met in 1968.\n\nThe \"Hours of Jeanne d'Evreux\" is a very small early Gothic book of hours containing 209 folios, of which 25 are full page miniatures. It is lavishly decorated in grisaille drawings, historiated initials and almost 700 border images. Jeanne d'Évreux was the third wife of Charles IV of France, and after their deaths the book went into the possession of Charles' brother, Jean, duc de Berry. The use of grisaille (shades of gray) drawings allowed the artist to give the figures a highly sculptural form, and the miniatures contain structures typical of French Gothic architecture of the period. The book has been described as \"the high point of Parisian court painting\", and evidence of \"the unprecedentedly refined artistic tastes of the time\".\n\nThe \"Belles Heures\" is widely regarded as one of the finest extant examples of manuscript illumination, and very few books of hours are as richly decorated. It is the only surviving complete book attributed to the Limbourg brothers. Rockefeller purchased the book from Maurice de Rothschild in 1954, and donated it to the Metropolitan.\n\nThe very small \"Bonne de Luxembourg\" manuscript (each leaf 12.5 × 8.4 × 3.9 cm) is attributed to Jean le Noir, and noted for its preoccupation with death. It was commissioned for Bonne de Luxembourg, Duchess of Normandy, daughter of John the Blind and the wife of John II of France, probably at the end of her husband's life, c. 1348–49. It was in a private collection for many years, and thus known only through poor-quality photographic reproductions until acquired by the museum in 1969. Produced in tempera, grisaille, ink and gold leaf on vellum, it had been rarely studied and was until that point misattributed to Jean Pucelle. Following its acquisition, it was studied by art historians, after which attribution was given to Le Noir.\n\nWhile examples of textile art are displayed throughout the museum, there are two dedicated rooms given to individual series of tapestries, the South Netherlandish \"Nine Heroes\" (c. 1385) and Flemish\"The Hunt of the Unicorn\" (c. 1500). The Nine Heroes room is entered from the Cuxa cloisters. Its 14th-century tapestries are one of the earliest surviving examples of tapestry, and are thought to be the original versions following widely influential and copied designs attributed to Nicolas Bataille. They were acquired over a period of twenty years, involving the purchase of more than 20 individual fragments which were then sewn together during a long reassembly process. The chivalric figures represent the scriptural and legendary Nine Worthies, who consist of three pagans (Hector, Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar), three Jews (Joshua, David and Judas Maccabeus) and three Christians (King Arthur, Charlemagne and Godfrey of Bouillon). Of these, five figures survive: Hector, Caesar, Joshua, David and Arthur. They have been described as representing \"in their variety, the highest level of a rich and powerful social structure of later fourteenth-century France\".\nThe \"Hunt of the Unicorn\" room can be entered from the hall containing the \"Nine Heroes\" via an early 16th-century door carved with representations of unicorns. The unicorn tapestries consist of a series of large, colourful hangings and fragment textiles designed in Paris and woven in Brussels or Liège. Noted for their vivid colourization -dominated by blue, yellow-brown, red, and gold hues-and the abundance of a wide variety of flora, they were produced for Anne of Brittany and completed c. 1495–1505. The tapestries were purchased by Rockefeller in 1922 for about one million dollars, and donated to the museum in 1937. They were cleaned and restored in 1998, and are now hung in a dedicated room on the museum's upper floor.\n\nThe large \"Nativity\" panel (also known as \"Christ is Born as Man's Redeemer\") from c. 1500, South Netherlandish (probably in Brussels), \"Burgos Tapestry\" was acquired by the museum in 1938. It was originally one of a series of eight tapestries representing the salvation of man, with individual scenes influenced by identifiable panel paintings, including by Rogier van der Weyden. It was badly damaged in earlier centuries: it had been cut into several irregular pieces and undergone several poor-quality restorations. The panel underwent a long process of restoration from 1971, undertaken by Tina Kane and Alice Blohm of the Metropolitan's Department of Textile Conservation. It is today hung in the Late Gothic hall.\n\nThe Cloisters' collection of stained glass consists of around three hundred panels, generally French and Germanic and mostly from the 13th to early 16th centuries. A number were formed from handmade opalescent glass. Works in the collection are characterized by vivid colors and often abstract designs and patterns; many have a devotional image as a centerpiece. The majority of these works are in the museum's Boppard room, named after the Carmelite church of Saint Severinus in Boppard, near Koblenz, Germany. The collection's pot-metal works (from the High Gothic period) highlight the effects of light, especially the transitions between darkness, shadow and illumination. The Met's collection grew in the early 20th century when Raymond Picairn made acquisitions at a time when medieval glass was not highly regarded by connoisseurs, and was difficult to extract and transport.\n\nJane Hayward, a curator at the museum from 1969 who began the museum's second phase of acquisition, describes stained glass as \"unquestioningly the preeminent form of Gothic medieval monumental painting\". She bought c.1500 heraldic windows from the Rhineland, now in the Campin room with the \"Mérode Altarpiece\". Hayward's addition in 1980 led to a redesign of the room so that the installed pieces would echo the domestic setting of the altarpiece. She wrote that the Campin room is the only gallery in the Met \"where domestic rather than religious art predominates...a conscious effort has been made to create a fifteenth-century domestic interior similar to the one shown in [Campin's] \"Annunciation\" panel.\" Other significant acquisitions include late 13th-century grisaille panels from the Château-de-Bouvreuil in Rouen, glass work from the Cathedral of Saint-Gervais-et-Saint-Protais at Sées, and panels from the Acezat collection, now in the Heroes Tapestry Hall.\n\nThe building is set into a steep hill, and thus the rooms and halls are divided between an upper entrance and a ground-floor level. The enclosing exterior building is mostly modern, and is influenced by and contains elements from the 13th-century church at Saint-Geraud at Monsempron, France, from which the northeast end of the building borrows especially. It was mostly designed by the architect Charles Collens, who took influence from works in Barnard's collection. At times to the frustration of the architects and builders, Rockefeller closely managed both the building's design and construction.\nThe building contains architecture elements and settings relocated mostly from four French abbeys, which between 1934 and 1939 were transported, reconstructed and integrated with new buildings in a project overseen by Collins. He told Rockefeller that the new building \"should present a well-studied outline done in the very simplest form of stonework growing naturally out of the rocky hill-top. After looking through the books in the Boston Athenaeum ...we found a building at Monsempron in Southern France of a type which would lend itself in a very satisfactory manner to such a treatment.\"\n\nThe architects sought to both memorialize the north hill's role in the American Revolution, and provide a sweeping view over the Hudson River. Construction of the exterior began in 1935. The stonework originates from several European sources, primarily limestone and granite, and includes four Gothic windows from the refectory at Sens, and nine arcades. The dome of the Fuentidueña Chapel was especially difficult to fit into the planned area. The east elevation is mostly formed from limestone and contains nine arcades from the Benedictine priory at Froville, and four flamboyant French Gothic windows from the Dominican monastery at Sens.\n\nLocated on the south side of the building's main level, the Cuxa cloisters are the museum's centerpiece both structurally and thematically. They were originally erected at the Benedictine Abbey of Sant Miquel de Cuixà on Mount Canigou, in the northeast French Pyrenees, which was founded in 878. The monastery was abandoned in 1791 and fell into disrepair; its roof collapsed in 1835 and its bell tower fell in 1839. About half of its stonework was moved to New York between 1906 and 1907. The installation became one of the first major undertakings by the Metropolitan after it acquired Barnard's collection. After intensive work over the fall and winter of 1925–26, the Cuxa cloisters were opened to the public on April 1, 1926.\nThe quadrangle-shaped garden once formed a center around which monks slept in cells. The original garden seemed to have been lined by walkways around adjoining arches lined with capitals enclosing the garth. It is impossible now to represent solely medieval species and arrangements; those in the Cuxa garden are approximations by botanists specializing in medieval history. The oldest plan of the original building describes lilies and roses. Although the walls are modern, the capitals and columns are original and cut from pink Languedoc marble from the Pyrenees. The intersection of the two walkways contains an eight-sided fountain.\n\nThe capitals were carved at different points in the abbey's history and thus contain a variety of forms and abstract geometric patterns, including scrolling leaves, pine cones, sacred figures such as Christ, the Apostles, angels, and monstrous creatures including two-headed animals, lions restrained by apes, mythic hybrids, a mermaid and inhuman mouths consuming human torsos. The motifs are derived from popular fables, or represent the brute forces of nature or evil, or are based on late 11th- and 12th-century monastic writings, such as those by Bernard of Clairvaux (1090–1153). The order in which the capitals were originally placed is unknown, making their interpretation especially difficult, although a sequential and continuous narrative was probably not intended. According to art historian Thomas Dale, to the monks, the \"human figures, beasts, and monsters\" may have represented the \"tension between the world and the cloister, the struggle to repress the natural inclinations of the body\".\n\nThe Saint-Guilhem cloisters were taken from the site of the Benedictine monastery of Saint-Guilhem-le-Désert, and date from 804 AD to the 1660s. Their acquisition around 1906 was one of Barnard's early purchases. The transfer to New York involved the movement of around 140 pieces, including capitals, columns and pilasters. The carvings on the marble piers and column shafts recall Roman sculpture and are coiled by extravagant foliage, including vines. The capitals contain acanthus leaves and grotesque heads peering out, including figures at the Presentation at the Temple, Daniel in the Lions' Den and the Mouth of Hell, and several pilasters and columns. The carvings seem preoccupied with the evils of hell. Those beside the mouth of hell contain representations of the devil and tormenting beasts, with, according to Young, \"animal-like body parts and cloven hoofs [as they] herd naked sinners in chains to be thrown into an upturned monster's mouth\".\n\nThe Guilhem cloisters are inside the museum's upper level and are much smaller than originally built. Its garden contains a central fountain and plants potted in ornate containers, including a 15th-century glazed earthenware vase. The area is covered by a skylight and plate glass panels which conserves heat in the winter months. Rockefeller had initially wanted a high roof and clerestory windows, but was convinced by Joseph Breck, curator of decorative arts at the Metropolitan, to install a skylight. Breck wrote to Rockefeller that \"by substituting a skylight for a solid ceiling...the sculpture is properly illuminated, since the light falls in a natural way; the visitor has the sense of being in the open; and his attention, consequently, is not attracted to the modern superstructure.\"\n\nThe Bonnefont cloisters were assembled from several French monasteries, but mostly come from a late 12th-century Cistercian at Bonnefont-en-Comminges, southwest of Toulouse. The abbey was intact until at least 1807, and by the 1850s all of its architectural features had been removed from the site, often for decoration of nearby buildings. Barnard purchased the stonework in 1937. Today the Bonnefont cloisters contain 21 double capitals, and surround a garden that contains many features typical of the medieval period, including a central wellhead, raised flower beds and lined with wattle fences. The marbles are highly ornate and decorated, some with grotesque figures. The inner garden has been set with a medlar tree of the type found in \"The Hunt of the Unicorn\" tapestries, and is centered around a wellhead placed at Bonnefont-en-Comminges in the 12th century. The Bonnefort is on the upper level of the museum and gives a view of the Hudson river and the cliffs of The Palisades.\n\nThe Trie cloisters was compiled from two late 15th- to early 16th-century French structures. Most of its components came from the Carmelite convent at Trie-sur-Baïse in south-western France, whose original abbey, except for the church, was destroyed by Huguenots in 1571. Small narrow buttresses were added in New York during the 1950s by Breck. The rectangular garden hosts around 80 species of plants and contains a tall limestone cascade fountain at its center. Like those from Saint-Guilhem, the Trie cloisters have been given modern roofing.\n\nThe convent at Trie-sur-Baïse featured some 80 white marble capitals carved between 1484 and 1490. Eighteen were moved to New York and contain numerous biblical scenes and incidents form the lives of saints. Several of the carvings are secular, including those of legendary figures such as Saint George and the Dragon, the \"wild man\" confronting a grotesque monster, and a grotesque head wearing an unusual and fanciful hat. The capitals are placed in chronological order, beginning with God in the act of creation at the northwest corner, Adam and Eve in the west gallery, followed by the Binding of Isaac, and Matthew and John writing their gospels. Capitals in the south gallery illustrate scenes from the life of Christ.\n\nDuring periods of political unrest and military invasion, gardens became essential for community survival. The Cloisters' three gardens, the Judy Black Garden at the Cuxa Cloister on the main level, and the Bonnefont and Trie Cloisters gardens on the lower level, were laid out and planted in 1938. They contain a variety of rare medieval species, with a total of over 250 genera of plants, flowers, herbs and trees, making it one of the world's most important collections of specialized gardens. The garden's design was overseen by Rorimer during the museum's construction. He was aided by Margaret Freeman, who conducted extensive research into the keeping of plants and their symbolism in the Middle Ages. Today the gardens are tended by a staff of horticulturalists; the senior members are also historians of 13th- and 14th-century gardening techniques.\n\nThe Gothic chapel is set on the museum's ground level, and was built to display its stained glass and large sculpture collections. The entrance from the upper level Early Gothic Hall is lit by stained glass double-lancet windows, carved on both sides, and acquired from the church of La Tricherie, France. The ground level is entered through a large door at its east wall. This entrance begins with a pointed Gothic arch leading to high bayed ceilings, ribbed vaults and buttress. The three center windows are from the church of Sankt Leonhard, in southern Austria, from c. 1340. The glass panels include a depiction of Martin of Tours as well as complex medallion patterns. The glass on the east wall comes from Evron Abbey, Normandy, and dates from around 1325. The apse contains three large sculptures by the main windows; two larger than life-size female saints dating from the 14th century, and a Burgundian Bishop dating from the 13th. The large limestone sculpture of Saint Margaret on the wall by the stairs dates to around 1330 and is from the church of in Lleida, Catalonia.\nEach of the six effigies are supreme examples of sepulchral art. Three are from the in Catalonia. The monument directly facing the main windows is the c. 1248–67 sarcophagus of Jean d'Alluye, a knight of the crusades, who was thought to have returned from the Holy Land with a relic of the True Cross. He is shown as a young man, his eyes open, and dressed in chain armor, with his longsword and shield. The female effigy of a lady, found in Normandy, dates to the mid 13th century and is perhaps of Margaret of Gloucester. Although resting on a modern base, she is dressed in high contemporary aristocratic fashion, including a mantle, cotte, jewel studded belt and an elaborate ring necklace brooch.\n\nFour of the effigies were made for the Urgell family, are set into the chapel walls, and are associated with the church of Santa Maria at Castello de Farfanya, redesigned in the Gothic style for Ermengol X (died c. 1314). The elaborate sarcophagus of Ermengol VII, Count of Urgell (d. 1184) is placed on the left hand wall facing the chapel's south windows. It is supported by three stone lions, and a grouping of mourners carved into the slab, which also shows Christ in Majesty flanked by the Twelve Apostles. The three other Urgell tombs also date to the mid 13th century, and maybe of Àlvar of Urgell and his second wife, Cecilia of Foix, the parents of Ermengol X, and that of a young boy, possibly Ermengol IX, the only one of their direct line ancestors known to have died in youth. The slabs of the double tomb on the wall opposite Ermengol VII, contain the effigies of his parents, and have been slanted forward to offer a clear view of the stonework. The heads are placed on cushions, which are decorated with arms. The male's feet rest on a dog, while the cushion under the woman's head is held by an angel.\n\nThe Fuentidueña chapel is the museum's largest room, and is entered through a broad oak door flanked by sculptures which include leaping animals. Its centerpiece is the Fuentidueña Apse, a semicircular Romanesque recess built between about 1175 to 1200 at the Saint Joan church at Fuentidueña, Segovia. By the 19th century, the church was long abandoned and in disrepair. \n\nIt was acquired by Rockefeller for the Cloisters in 1931, following three decades of complex negotiation and diplomacy between the Spanish church and both countries' art-historical hierarchies and governments. It was eventually exchanged in a deal that involved the transfer of six frescoes from San Baudelio de Berlanga to the Prado, on an equally long-term loan. The structure was disassembled into almost 3,300 mostly sandstone and limestone blocks, each individually cataloged, and shipped to New York in 839 crates. \n\nIt was rebuilt at the Cloisters in the late 1940s It was such a large and complex reconstruction that it required the demolition of the former \"Special Exhibition Room\". The chapel was opened to the public in 1961, seven years after its installation had begun.\nThe apse consists of a broad arch leading to a barrel vault, and culminates with a half-dome. The capitals at the entrance contain representations of the Adoration of the Magi and Daniel in the lions' den. The piers show Martin of Tours on the left and the angel Gabriel announcing to The Virgin on the right. The chapel includes other, mostly contemporary, medieval artwork. They include, in the dome, a large fresco dating to between 1130–50, from the Spanish Church of Sant Joan de Tredòs. The fresco's colorization resembles a Byzantine mosaic and is dedicated to the ideal of Mary as the mother of God. Hanging within the apse is a crucifix made between about 1150 to 1200 for the in Astudillo, Spain. Its reverse contains a depiction of the Agnus Dei (Lamb of God), decorated with red and blue foliage at its frames. The exterior wall holds three small, narrow and stilted windows, which are nevertheless designed to let in the maximum amount of light. The windows were originally set within imposing fortress walls; according to the art historian Bonnie Young \"these small windows and the massive, fortress-like walls contribute to the feeling of austerity...typical of Romanesque churches.\"\n\nThe Langon chapel is on the museum's ground level. Its right wall was built around 1126 for the Romanesque Cathédrale Notre-Dame-du-Bourg de Digne. The chapter house consists of a single aisle nave and transepts taken from a small Benedictine parish church built around 1115 at Notre Dame de Pontaut. When acquired, it was in disrepair, its upper level in use as a storage place for tobacco. About three-quarters of its original stonework was moved to New York. \n\nThe chapel is entered from the Romanesque hall through a doorway, a large, elaborate French Gothic stone entrance commissioned by the Burgundian court for Moutiers-Saint-Jean Abbey in Burgundy, France. Moutiers-Saint-Jean was sacked, burned, and rebuilt several times. In 1567, the Huguenot army removed the heads from the two kings, and in 1797 the abbey was sold as rubble for rebuilding. The site lay in ruin for decades and lost further sculptural elements until Barnard arranged for the entrances' transfer to New York. The doorway had been the main portal of the abbey, and was probably built as the south transept door. \n\nCarvings on the elaborate white oolitic limestone doorway depict the Coronation of the Virgin and contains foliated capitals and statuettes on the outer piers; including two kings positioned in the embrasures and various kneeling angels. Carvings of angels are placed in the archivolts above the kings. The large figurative sculptures on either side of the doorway represent the early Frankish kings Clovis I (d. 511) and his son Chlothar I (d. 561). The piers are lined with elaborate and highly detailed rows of statuettes, which are mostly set in niches, and are badly damaged; most have been decapitated. The heads on the right hand capital were for a time believed to represent Henry II of England. Seven capitals survive from the original church, with carvings of human figures or heads, some of which as have been identified as historical persons, including Eleanor of Aquitaine.\n\nThe Romanesque hall contains three large church doorways, with the main visitor entrance adjoining the Guilhem Cloister. The monumental arched Burgundian doorway is from Moutier-Saint-Jean de Réôme in France and dates to c. 1150. Two animals are carved into the keystones; both rest on their hind legs as if about to attack each other. The capitals are lined with carvings of both real and imagined animals and birds, as well as leaves and other fauna. The two earlier doorways are from Reugny, Allier, and Poitou in central France. The hall contains four large early-13th-century stone sculptures representing the Adoration of the Magi, frescoes of a lion and a wyvern, each from the Monastery of San Pedro de Arlanza in north central Spain. On the left of the room are portraits of kings and angels, also from the monastery at Moutier-Saint-Jean. The hall contains three pairs of columns positioned over an entrance with molded archivolts. They were taken from the Augustinian church at Reugny. The Reugny site was badly damaged during the French Wars of Religion and again during the French Revolution. Most of the structures had been sold to a local man, Piere-Yon Verniere, by 1850, and were acquired by Barnard in 1906.\n\nThe Treasury room was opened in 1988 to celebrate the museum's 50th anniversary. It largely consists of small luxury objects acquired by the Met after it had built its initial collection, and draws heavily on acquisitions from the collection of Joseph Brummer. The rooms contains the museum's collection of illuminated manuscripts, the French 13th-century arm-shaped silver reliquary, and a 15th-century deck of playing cards.\n\nThe Cloisters contains one of the Metropolitan's 13 libraries. Focusing on medieval art and architecture, it holds over 15,000 volumes of books and journals, the museum's archive administration papers, curatorial papers, dealer records and the personal papers of Barnard, as well as early glass lantern slides of museum materials, manuscript facsimiles, scholarly records, maps and recordings of musical performances at the museum. The library functions primarily as a resource for museum staff, but is available by appointment to researchers, art dealers, academics and students. The archives contain early sketches and blueprints made during the early design phase of the museum's construction, as well as historical photographic collections. These include photographs of medieval objects from the collection of George Joseph Demotte, and a series taken during and just after World War II showing damage sustained to monuments and artifacts, including tomb effigies. They are, according to curator Lauren Jackson-Beck, of \"prime importance to the art historian who is concerned with the identification of both the original work and later areas of reconstruction\". Two important series of prints are kept on microfilm: the \"Index photographique de l'art en France\" and the German \"Marburg Picture Index\".\n\nThe Cloisters is governed by the board of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Metropolitan's collections are owned by a private corporation of about 950 fellows and benefactors. The board of trustees comprise 41 elected members, several officials of the City of New York, and persons honored as trustees by the museum. The current chairman of the board is the businessman and art collector Daniel Brodsky, who was elected in 2011, having previously served on its Real Estate Council in 1984 as a trustee of the museum and Vice Chairman of the Buildings Committee.\n\nThe Cloisters regularly acquires new works although as a specialist museum rarely deaccessions. While the Metropolitan does not publish separate figures for the Cloisters, the entity as a whole spent $39 million on acquisitions for the fiscal year ending in June 2012. The Cloisters seeks to balance its collection between religious and secular artifacts and artworks. With secular pieces, it typically favors those that indicate the range of artistic production in the medieval period, and according to art historian Timothy Husband, \"reflect the fabric of daily [medieval European] life but also endure as works of art in their own right.\" In 2011 it purchased the then-recently discovered \"The Falcon's Bath\", a Southern Netherlands tapestry dated c. 1400–1415. It is of exceptional quality, and one of the best preserved surviving examples of its type. Other recent acquisitions of significance include the 2015 purchase of a Book of Hours attributed to Simon Bening.\n\nThe museum's architectural settings, atmosphere and acoustics have made it a regular setting both for musical recitals and as a stage for medieval theater. Notable stagings include \"The Miracle of Theophilus\" in 1942, and John Gassner's adaption of \"The Second Shepherds' Play\" in 1954. Recent significant exhibitions include \"Small Wonders: Gothic Boxwood Miniatures\" which ran in the summer of 2017 in conjunction with the Art Gallery of Ontario and Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam.\n\nThe museum is a well-known New York City landmark and has been used as a filming location. In 1948, director Maya Deren used its ramparts as a backdrop for her experimental film \"Meditation on Violence\". That year, German director William Dieterle used the Cloisters as the location for a convent school in his film \"Portrait of Jennie\". The 1968 film \"Coogan's Bluff\" used the site's pathways and lanes for a scenic motorcycle chase.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "224040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224040", "title": "The Cook's Decameron", "text": "The Cook's Decameron\n\nThe Cook's Decameron: A Study In Taste, Containing Over Two Hundred Recipes For Italian Dishes is a cookbook by Mrs. W. G. Waters that was published in 1901 and is now in the public domain. It contains over two hundred recipes for Italian dishes.\n\n"}
{"id": "10255072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10255072", "title": "Trash (computing)", "text": "Trash (computing)\n\nIn computing, the Trash (also known as the Recycle Bin in Windows and by other names in other operating systems ) is temporary storage for files that have been deleted in a file manager by the user, but not yet permanently erased from the file system. Typically, a recycle bin is presented as a special file directory to the user (whether or not it is actually a single directory depends on the implementation), allowing the user to browse deleted files, undelete those that were deleted by mistake, or delete them permanently (either one by one, or by the \"Empty Trash\" function).\n\nWithin a trash folder, a record is kept of each file and/or directory's original location. On certain operating systems, files must be moved out of the trash before they can be accessed again.\n\nWhether or not files deleted by a program go to the recycle bin depends on its level of integration with a particular desktop environment and its function. Low-level utilities usually bypass this layer entirely and delete files immediately. A program that includes file manager functionality may or may not send files to the recycle bin, or it may allow the user to choose between these options.\n\nA small icon of a waste container for deleting files was implemented during the development of the Apple Lisa user interface in 1982, where it was called the “Wastebasket.” The concept carried over to the Apple Macintosh, as the “Trash”, except in the pre-OS 9 “International English” localization, which retained “Wastebasket.”\n\nApple Inc. sued to prevent other software companies from offering graphical user interfaces similar to its own. Apple lost most of its claims but courts agreed Apple's Trash \"icon\" was original and protected by copyright. Non-Apple software may use other metaphors for file deletion, such as Recycle Bin, Smart Eraser, or Shredder.\n\nIn early versions of the Macintosh Finder, Trash contents were listed in volatile memory. Files moved to the Trash would appear there only until the Finder session ended, then they would be automatically erased. When System 7 was released, the Trash became a folder that retained its contents until the user chose to empty the trash.\n\nMicrosoft first implemented the \"trash can\" concept in MS-DOS 6, under the name \"Delete Sentry\": When a file was deleted, it was moved to a hidden SENTRY folder at the root of the drive. Microsoft introduced its current trash system, the \"Recycle Bin\", with Windows 95, as an area to store and review files and folders prior to deletion. In this version, the original location record of the file is stored, but the folder itself didn't allow subdirectories. When a folder is deleted, its containing files are moved into the bin and mixed with other deleted files. The directory structure can only be restored if the batch of files are \"undeleted\". The current (revised) Recycle Bin allows for subdirectory trees to exist within folders that have been moved there.\n\nRecycle bin functionality is usually integrated into a desktop environment and its file manager. Examples include:\n\nSome implementations may contain \"shredding\" functionality to counter data remanence.\n\nThe KDE, GNOME and Xfce implementations comply with the freedesktop.org Trash specification, ensuring that any applications written with this specification in mind will be interoperable with any trash can implementation.\n\nAlthough the various Linux desktop environments such as GNOME, KDE, and Xfce provide a trash mechanism, there is traditionally no simple way to trash something from the command line interface. Some third-party applications, such as trash-cli, provide commands on the command-line to use the trash, compatible with the FreeDesktop.org Trash Specification.\n\nUnder macOS, when a file is deleted in Finder, it is moved to a .Trashes folder, and when viewing the device's available space the space occupied by the deleted files is shown as occupied.\n\nIn macOS Sierra, the user can turn on an option to have the Trash delete after 30 days.\n\nMicrosoft's \"Recycle Bin\" is implemented as a special folder with columns like \"Date deleted\" and \"Original location\". Typically only files deleted via Windows Explorer (but not necessarily other Windows graphical interfaces such as file selection dialogs) will be put into the Recycle Bin; files deleted via the Command Prompt are permanently deleted, as (by default) are files deleted via operating system APIs and applications other than Windows Explorer. Some operating system APIs do, however, allow applications to recycle files rather than delete them. In previous Windows operating systems and in MS-DOS, undeletion was the only way to recover accidentally or intentionally deleted files.\n\nAs standard, the Recycle Bin only stores files deleted from hard drives, not from removable media, such as memory cards, thumb drives, or floppy disks, nor does it store files deleted from network drives. There are methods to make it work on network paths, however.\n\nThe Recycle Bin has a setting to configure the amount of deleted files it can store. Free disk space allocated for this is not actually used until files are deleted from folders and stored in the Recycle Bin. In versions of Windows prior to Windows Vista, the default configuration of the Recycle Bin is a global setting for all drives to hold 10% of the total capacity of each host hard drive volume to store deleted files. For example, on a volume with a capacity of 20 gigabytes, the Recycle Bin will hold up to 2 gigabytes of deleted files. This can be changed anywhere from 0 to 100% of the drive space, but will not be allowed to exceed 3.99GB of space, even if the user-indicated % of the drive space is larger than 3.99GB. If the Recycle Bin fills up to maximum capacity, the oldest files will be deleted in order to accommodate the newly deleted files. If a file is too large for the Recycle Bin, the user will be prompted to immediately and permanently delete the file instead. This 3.99GB limit does not apply in Windows Vista and later Windows versions.\n\nThe actual location of the Recycle Bin depends on the type of operating system and file system. On older FAT file systems (typically Windows 98 and prior), it is located in \"Drive:\\RECYCLED\". In the NTFS filesystem (Windows 2000, XP, NT) it is \"Drive:\\RECYCLER\". On Windows Vista and Windows 7 it is \"Drive:\\$Recycle.Bin\" folder.\n\nThe Recycle Bin can be accessed from the desktop or Windows Explorer, or by typing shell:RecycleBinFolder in the Run dialog box (). It is the only icon shown by default on the Windows XP desktop. When accessed from the desktop, the Recycle Bin options and information are different from those of the physical Recycle Bin folders seen on each partition in Windows Explorer. From Windows XP onwards, with NTFS, different users cannot see the contents of each other's Recycle Bins.\n\nPrior to Windows Vista, a file in the Recycle Bin is stored in its physical location and renamed as \"D<original drive letter of file><#>.<original extension>\". A hidden file called \"info2\" (\"info\" in Windows 95 without the Windows Desktop Update) stores the file's original path and original name in binary format. Since Windows Vista, the \"meta\" information of each file is saved as \"$I<number>.<original extension>\" and the original file is renamed to \"$R<number>.<original extension>\".\n\nWhen the user views the Recycle Bin, the files are displayed with their original names. When the file is \"Restored\" from the Recycle Bin, it is returned to its original directory and name.\n\nIn Windows Explorer, files are moved to the Recycle Bin in a number of ways:\n\nIt is possible to bypass the Recycle Bin and directly delete a file by holding the SHIFT key while performing an action that would normally send a file to the trash.\n\nApple’s macOS has long allowed dragging a disk icon to the Trash as a method for unmounting and/or physically ejecting a disk, but this does not place the disk in the Trash folder nor does it erase the disk. In macOS the Trash icon temporarily changes to an Eject or Disconnect symbol whenever storage volumes are dragged. The GNOME Human Interface Guidelines cite such behavior as an example of a discouraged metaphor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16786732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16786732", "title": "William Missouri Downs", "text": "William Missouri Downs\n\nWilliam Missouri Downs is an American playwright, screenwriter, director, author and university professor.\n\nHe holds an M.F.A. in acting from the University of Illinois and an M.F.A. in screenwriting from U.C.L.A. He was trained in playwriting by Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Lanford Wilson (5 July, Talley's Folly), in screenwriting by Oscar-winning screenwriter Stirling Silliphant (In the Heat of the Night, The Poseidon Adventure) and in directing by Oscar-nominated director Jerzy Antczak (Nights and Days). Bill also spent several years studying playwriting with Milan Stitt (Yale School of Drama) at The Circle Rep Theatre in New York City.\nHis plays have been produced by the Orlando Shakespeare Theatre, the Wisdom Bridge Theatre in Chicago, the New York City Fringe Festival, The InterAct Theatre in Philadelphia, The San Diego Rep, the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts (as part of the AT&T Performing Arts Festival), The Berkeley Repertory Theatre, the Salt Lake City Acting Company, the Actors Theatre of Charlotte, the International Theatre Festival in Israel, the Stadt Theater Walfischgasse in Austria, the Detroit Rep, the Durban Performing Arts Center in South Africa, and over 150 other theatres worldwide.\nIn Hollywood, Bill started as a script secretary on NBC's \"Moonlighting\" (Bruce Willis and Cybill Shepherd), and his acceptance into the prestigious Warner Brothers Sitcom Writing Workshop paved his way as a staff writer on NBC's \"My Two Dads\" (Paul Reiser). He also wrote episodes for the NBC shows \"Amen\" (Sherman Hemsley) and \"Fresh Prince Of Bel Air\" (Will Smith). In addition he sold a movie to Ron Howard's Imagine Films and optioned another to Filmways. While a student at UCLA film school, Bill won numerous screenwriting awards, including the Jack Nicholson prize.\n\nDowns has won two rolling premieres from the National New Play Network National New Play Network. and twice been a finalist at the Eugene O'Neill. He also won the Beverly Hills Theatre Guild Julie Harris Award \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2057519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2057519", "title": "X3J13", "text": "X3J13\n\nX3J13 is the name of a technical committee which was part of INCITS (known at the time as X3). The X3J13 committee was formed in 1986 to draw up an ANSI Common Lisp standard based on the first edition of the book \"Common Lisp the Language\" (also known as \"CLtL\", or \"CLtL1\"), by Guy L. Steele, Jr., which was previously a \"de facto\" standard for the language. The primary output of X3J13 was an American National Standard for programming language Common Lisp (X3.226/1994), approved December 8, 1994. X3J13 later worked with ISO working group SC22/WG16 on an internationally standardised dialect of Lisp named ISLISP.\n\nThe original chair of the committee was Doctor Robert Mathis of Ohio State University, with Mary van Deusen as secretary. Guy L. Steele, Jr. was originally the vice-chair. In later years, Mathis stepped down as chair and Steele assumed that role.\n\nThe efforts of the committee were guided by its charter, the successful creation of which is credited to the coordinating efforts of Susan P. Ennis, a representative of Amoco Production Company. The charter lays out the committee's goals and priorities, as well as a broadly defined list of some topics to be addressed.\n\nThe committee formed several subcommittees to help its members better concentrate their efforts.\n\nThe Cleanup Subcommittee, chaired by Larry Masinter, established a standardised format for the submission of proposals for voting. These issue writeups, while not themselves part of the standard, were deemed sufficiently useful for the Common Lisp HyperSpec to include and cross-reference them for the benefit of readers, providing information about the original intent of the committee in its decisions. These writeups also serve as a historical record of those alternate solutions to problems which were, ultimately, not adopted.\n\nChaired by Sandra Loosemore, this subcommittee created proposals for issues relating to Lisp compilation. Guy Steele acknowledged in the second edition of \"Common Lisp the Language\" the large contribution of the Compiler Subcommittee toward clarifying the compilation process described in the first edition, parts of which Steele himself describes as \"vague\".\n\nJon L. White was the chair of the Iteration Subcommittee. Among the issues dealt with by this subcommittee was the generalized codice_1 macro — a domain-specific language to which the second edition of CLtL devoted an entire chapter. The \"ALGOL-like\" syntax of this macro, differing from Lisp's more usual S-expression syntax, was and remains somewhat controversial.\n\nThe Character Subcommittee, chaired by Thom Linden, had the task of defining how the standard would deal with the issues surrounding different character sets. The resolution of these matters — particularly the ability to use any character in the name of a symbol — was intended to make Common Lisp simpler for international users.\n\nChaired by Kent Pitman, the Error Handling Subcommittee plugged what was described as \"the biggest outstanding hole in Common Lisp\" with the condition system, a general mechanism for handling errors, warnings, and other exceptional situations.\n\nThe committee referred to the resulting specification as a \"condition system\" rather than an \"error system\" in order to accommodate a single system for handling exceptional situations of various kinds, whether fatal or non-fatal, whether continuable or not, and whether the result of program error or mere resource limitation (such as stack overflow). Conditions are \"signaled\" at one point in the code and may be handled at another point. This usage of the term \"signal\" is different from the typical operating system's notion of signals (except on Lisp machines where this variant usage of the term evolved); the operating system notion of signaling was out of scope for this committee, and consequently was not addressed in the ANSI Common Lisp standard. Asynchronous interrupts and IEEE floating point trapping was also out of scope for this committee's work and was not addressed in the standard.\n\nKathy Chapman was the chair for the Drafting Subcommittee, which was responsible for the drafting of the actual standard document. In addition, the subcommittee oversaw efforts to keep terminology consistent and accurate throughout the committee's activities.\n\nThe final standard produced by the X3J13 committee was published as American National Standard X3.226, and also in hypertext form as the Common Lisp HyperSpec.\n\nThe book \"Common Lisp the Language\", although mostly authored by Guy L. Steele, Jr., was the product of an ad hoc committee that had formed around 1980 and had worked collaboratively to produce the original \"de facto\" standard for Common Lisp prior to the formation of X3J13. X3J13 began its work with \"Common Lisp the Language\" as a base document and proceeded from there in the design of what would become ANSI Common Lisp. Steele himself served on the committee and gave them permission to use any or all parts of its first edition in their efforts.\n\nDocuments published by X3J13 were later used, together with quotations from certain committee members, in the production of the Second Edition, which was released in 1990, allowing the Common Lisp community a way to preview many features that were expected to appear in the committee's final standard document. The Second Edition of \"Common Lisp the Language\" bears similarity to the standard in content, though not in form. However, substantive changes were made, in the form of both additions and deletions, between the publication of the book and the final draft of the ANSI standard.\n\nIn sum, the original edition of \"Common Lisp the Language\" was the document upon which X3J13 originally based its work. The Second Edition, by contrast, was Steele's personal work, not a committee product and had no official status within X3J13 or ANSI. As acknowledged in the Second Edition preface, it was not authorized by X3J13, the choice of content as a snapshot of the work in progress was not formally synchronized with X3J13, and the final version was not reviewed or approved by X3J13.\n\n\n"}
