{"id": "39556961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39556961", "title": "Aimaq Hazara", "text": "Aimaq Hazara\n\nThe Aimaq Hazaras (Hazara-e-kala-e-nau, Hazara-e-qala-e-naw, Sunni Hazara) are the Aimaq's subtribe of Hazara origin, however they are Sunni Muslims and other Hazaras are Shia Muslims.\nThe Aimaq Hazara consists of 38 subtribes. The Aimaq Hazara and Taimuri peoples are the most Mongoloid of the Aimaqs. The Aimaq people live in traditional Afghan black tents but the Aimaq Hazara and Taimuri are semi-nomadic who live in yurts covered with felt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45705310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45705310", "title": "Alec Naylor Dakin", "text": "Alec Naylor Dakin\n\nAlec Naylor Dakin (3 April 1912 – 14 June 2003) was a Fellow of Oxford College, a cryptologist at Bletchley Park, an Egyptologist and schoolmaster.\n\nAlec Dakin was born in Mytholmroyd in the West Riding of Yorkshire in 1912, the son of inventor and sawmaker, Bertram Alexander Dakin and his wife Annie Louise Naylor who were married in 1908 in Todmorden. He came from an inventive family since his father, who was born in 1879, was an inventor (of carving knives, saws, pan handles and wall coatings). He won a scholarship to Heath School, Halifax.\n\nAt school he won a second scholarship, this time to Queen's College, Oxford. There he read Greats and took walks with his fellow Yorkshire scholarship-boy and Nonconformist, Harold Wilson.\nAlec's tutor, Oliver Franks encouraged him to begin the study of Egyptology, and he was also guided by Professor Battiscombe Gunn, an English Egyptologist and philologist who had published his first translation from Egyptian in 1906 and, in 1934, was appointed Professor of Egyptology at the University of Oxford just a few years prior to Alec's time there where Battiscombe devoted himself to his pupils and his classes, at the expense of his own research.\nIn 1936 at the age of 24, Alec became a Fellow of University College Oxford.\n\nDuring his studies Alec had acquired fluent German, which would later turn out to be extremely advantageous to his career.\nHe was clearly destined for a distinguished career as an Oxford Egyptologist but just two years later in 1940, his life took an unexpected turn when he was recruited by her Majesty's government to work as a cryptographer at Bletchley Park - to assist the war effort. \nHe worked in complete secrecy in hut 4, alongside many others at Bletchley, including the well known cryptographer, Alan Turing who was put in charge of all of them by Winston Churchill.He later described this period as the happiest time of his life and especially\nenjoyed the challenge of the early days, before the Colossus computer took over the decrypting.\n\nAlec was responsible for rapidly translating the decrypted German naval Enigma signals for the Admiralty to determine which ones were most important.\n\nOne such signal was from the Bismarck which read \"Most immediate. Torpedo hit right aft. Ship unmanoeuvrable. We fight to the last shell. Long live the Fuehrer.\"\nAnother might simply inform a numbered rating on a U-boat that his home in Germany had been bombed.\n\nDakin was one of the first people to read the message \"The Fuehrer Adolf Hitler is dead.\" although this was somewhat premature as Hitler actually survived the assassination attempt that this signal presaged.\n\nAs with other Bletchley Park staff he was obliged to take an oath of secrecy, never speaking to anyone of his war work, even his wife Joan, whom\nhe married in 1953. \nHee tried to join the Royal Navy, but was prevented on the grounds that he knew too much to risk his being captured.\n\nTogether with Ernest Ettinghausen, Walter Ettinghausen's younger brother, he described\nthe work of Hut 4 for secret Foreign Office files. It was so secret that he was not even allowed to consult it himself when eventually\nhe wrote his chapter on the work of Hut 4 for \"Codebreakers: The inside story of Bletchley Park\", an\ninside story account of Bletchley Park, edited by F. H. Hinsley and\nAlan Stripp.\n\nAfter the war he decided to become a schoolmaster instead of returning to Oxford.\nHe thought that he could more directly help to build the world by influencing young people at their most formative stage. \nIn 1946 he joined the staff at Kingswood School, Bath, teaching classics, and remained there until his retirement in 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "2545865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2545865", "title": "Alex Spanos", "text": "Alex Spanos\n\nAlexander Gus Spanos (September 28, 1923 – October 9, 2018) was an American billionaire real estate developer, founder of the A. G. Spanos Companies, and the majority owner of the Los Angeles Chargers of the National Football League (NFL).\n\nSpanos was born in Stockton, California to a Greek family, the son of Greek immigrants, Constantino and Evanthia Spanos. His father owned a bakery where the young Spanos started working at the age of eight. According to his autobiography, Spanos was \"born into conflict\", since his parents were constantly fighting. Spanos' mother even left the family home for two years and attempted to take two children with her, but his parents reunited when he was a teenager and remained married until his death. Spanos, who played a large part in mediating the conflict between his parents, stated that his turbulent home life was the reason he strove to provide a stable environment for his own children. In 1942 he dropped out of college at the California Polytechnic School and joined the Army Air Force training as a pilot but left the program and instead served as a tail gunner during World War II. Spanos earned varsity letters in swimming and diving at the University of the Pacific in Stockton and later distinguished himself as an amateur golfer.\n\nIn 1951 he borrowed $800 from a local banker to buy a truck which he then used to sell sandwiches to migrant farm workers in the San Joaquin Valley. By 1955 he had made his first million dollars. He invested his earnings in real estate and at the suggestion of his tax accountants, started to build apartments. In 1960, he founded A.G. Spanos Companies, which by 1977 had become the largest apartment builder in the United States. The corporation is based in Stockton and has 10 subsidiaries.\n\nIn 1984, Spanos bought 60% of the San Diego Chargers (now Los Angeles Chargers) from majority owner Eugene Klein for $48.3 million. Over the next 10 years, he bought out the shares of several small co-owners, bringing his control of the team to 97%. The remaining 3% was held by San Diego restaurateur George Pernicano, an investor in the team since a few years after its inception, until Pernicano's death in October 2016. Since 1993, Spanos' son Dean has handled the daily operations of the franchise. According to Forbes, as of 2015 the Los Angeles Chargers are worth $995 million.\n\nSpanos donated $500,000 to renovate the Fox Theatre in downtown Stockton, and with the approval of the City of Stockton, renamed the facility the Fox California Bob Hope Theatre. The Alex G. Spanos Center in Stockton, the Alex G. Spanos Stadium for Lincoln High School in Stockton, the Alex G. Spanos Sports and Recreation Complex in Sacramento, the Alex G. Spanos Training Center at UCSD and the Alex G. Spanos Stadium at Cal Poly are named after him.\n\nSpanos was one of the largest contributors to George W. Bush's re-election campaign in 2004. By contributing $5 million to 527 groups that supported the Bush campaign in 2004, Spanos ranked among the top five GOP donors. President Bush appointed Spanos to the Kennedy Center board in 2004. Spanos was inducted into the California Building Industry Hall of Fame in 2005. Spanos also received the AHEPA Award, an award that recognizes members of the community for their contributions and achievements in their chosen field of endeavor.\n\nIn 1948, Spanos married Faye Papafaklis. They had four children: Dean Spanos, the Chargers' team president; Michael Spanos, the Chargers' executive vice president; Alexis Spanos Ruhl, a vice president of A.G. Spanos Companies; and Dea Spanos Berberian, a vice president of A.G. Spanos Companies. In his autobiography, Spanos credits his wife with much of his success and stated that the couple did not recall \"one real argument.\" Faye Spanos died on August 7, 2018, aged 92.\n\nSpanos resided in Stockton, California. He owned property in Las Vegas, Nevada. Spanos had a seven-way heart bypass in 2000, and has had surgery and undergone chemotherapy for colon cancer. After his heart bypass at Sacramento Mercy General Hospital, Spanos donated $10 million to the hospital to sponsor the construction of a new state-of-the-art heart center.\n\nHe had written a book called \"Sharing the Wealth: My Story\" which detailed his rise from a moneyless man of 27 years to become a billionaire. Spanos was the first person ever to be on the winning teams in both the Bob Hope Desert Classic in Palm Desert (1977) and the Bob Hope British Pro-Am (1980).\n\nSpanos died October 9, 2018, age 95, of complications from dementia that had been diagnosed ten years prior. According to friends, he had been brokenhearted by the death of his wife two months earlier.\n\n"}
{"id": "4932497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4932497", "title": "Alexander Wilson (Canadian writer)", "text": "Alexander Wilson (Canadian writer)\n\nAlexander Wilson (25 May 1953 – 26 October 1993) was a writer, teacher, landscape designer, and community activist.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, Illinois, Wilson grew up in Oakland, California. In 1977, he moved to Canada, where he lived and worked in Toronto, Ontario.\n\nWilson advocated restoring indigenous plant species to the urban landscape, thereby promoting urban biodiversity and reconnecting urban dwellers with the natural history of the place in which they live. He believed that combining ecological restoration and community gardening could be a way to nurture and improve not only urban ecosystems, but also social and economic relations. In his book, \"The Culture of Nature: North American Landscape from Disney to the Exxon Valdez\" (1991), he dealt with the ways in which culture informs and constructs our understanding of \"nature\", and he examined the colonisation and appropriation of nature by the city (particularly via the automobile).\n\nWilson established the Garrison Creek Planting Company with artist Stephen Andrews (his life partner) and horticulturist Kim Delaney. He also designed the landscaping for the AIDS Memorial, Cawthra Park, itself designed by Patrick Fahn. Following Wilson's death from AIDS-related causes, his own memorial plaque was added to the others in the park.\n\nOn an urban lot near his house Wilson created a reclaimed garden that, after his death, friends tried to buy and preserve. Though they were unsuccessful in that project they did find another downtown lot on which a garden was created and named in his memory, the Alex Wilson Community Garden, which opened in June 1998 at 552 Richmond Street West in Toronto.\n\nA plaque in the park includes a quoted passage from \"The Culture of Nature\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1106301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106301", "title": "Algonquian peoples", "text": "Algonquian peoples\n\nThe Algonquian are one of the most populous and widespread North American native language groups. Today, thousands of individuals identify with various Algonquian peoples. Historically, the peoples were prominent along the Atlantic Coast and into the interior along the Saint Lawrence River and around the Great Lakes. This grouping consists of the peoples who speak Algonquian languages.\nBefore Europeans came into contact, most Algonquian settlements lived by hunting and fishing, although quite a few supplemented their diet by cultivating corn, beans and squash (the \"Three Sisters\"). The Ojibwe cultivated wild rice.\n\nThe Algonquians of New England (who spoke Eastern Algonquian) practiced a seasonal economy. The basic social unit was the village: a few hundred people related by a clan kinship structure. Villages were temporary and mobile. The people moved to locations of greatest natural food supply, often breaking into smaller units or gathering as the circumstances required. This custom resulted in a certain degree of cross-tribal mobility, especially in troubled times.\n\nIn warm weather, they constructed portable wigwams, a type of hut usually with buckskin doors. In the winter, they erected the more substantial longhouses, in which more than one clan could reside. They cached food supplies in more permanent, semi-subterranean structures.\n\nIn the spring, when the fish were spawning, they left the winter camps to build villages at coastal locations and waterfalls. In March, they caught smelt in nets and weirs, moving about in birch bark canoes. In April, they netted alewife, sturgeon and salmon. In May, they caught cod with hook and line in the ocean; and trout, smelt, striped bass and flounder in the estuaries and streams. Putting out to sea, the men hunted whales, porpoises, walruses and seals.dubious The women and children gathered scallops, mussels, clams and crabs, all the basis of menus in New England today.\n\nFrom April through October, natives hunted migratory birds and their eggs: Canada geese, brant, mourning doves and others. In July and August they gathered strawberries, raspberries, blueberries and nuts. In September, they split into small groups and moved up the streams to the forest. There, the men hunted beaver, caribou, moose and white-tailed deer.\n\nIn December, when the snows began, the people created larger winter camps in sheltered locations, where they built or reconstructed longhouses. February and March were lean times. The tribes in southern New England and other northern latitudes had to rely on cached food. Northerners developed a practice of going hungry for several days at a time. Historians hypothesize that this practice kept the population down, according to Liebig's law of the minimum. Northerners were food gatherers only.\n\nThe southern Algonquians of New England relied predominantly on slash and burn agriculture. They cleared fields by burning for one or two years of cultivation, after which the village moved to another location. This is the reason the English found the region relatively cleared and ready for planting. By using various kinds of native corn (maize), beans and squash, southern New England natives were able to improve their diet to such a degree that their population increased and they reached a density of 287 people per 100 square miles as opposed to 41 in the north.\n\nEven with mobile crop rotation, southern villages were necessarily less mobile than northern ones. The natives continued their seasonal occupation but tended to move into fixed villages near their lands. They adjusted to the change partially by developing a gender-oriented division of labor. The women cultivated crops, and the men fished and hunted.\n\nScholars estimate that, by the year 1600, the indigenous population of New England had reached 70,000–100,000.\n\nAt the time of the first European settlements in North America, Algonquian peoples occupied what is now New Brunswick, and much of what is now Canada east of the Rocky Mountains; what is now New England, New Jersey, southeastern New York, Delaware and down the Atlantic Coast through the Upper South; and around the Great Lakes in present-day Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana and Iowa. They were mostly concentrated in the New England region. The homeland of the Algonquian peoples is not known. At the time of the European arrival, the hegemonic Iroquois Confederacy, based in present-day New York and Pennsylvania, was regularly at war with Algonquian neighbours.\n\nThe French and later English encountered the Maliseet of present-day Maine, Quebec and New Brunswick; the Abenaki of Quebec, Vermont and New Hampshire; the Mi'kmaw band governments of the Maritimes lived primarily on fishing. Further north are the Betsiamite, Atikamekw, Anishinaabe and Innu/Naskapi. The Beothuk of Newfoundland might have been Algonquians, but as their last known speaker died in the early 19th century, little record of their language or culture remains.\n\nColonists in the Massachusetts Bay area first encountered the Wampanoag, Massachusett, Nipmuck, Pennacook, Penobscot, Passamaquoddy, and Quinnipiac. The Mohegan, Pequot, Pocumtuc, Tunxis, and Narragansett were based in southern New England. The Abenaki were located in northern New England: present-day Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont in what became the United States and eastern Quebec in what became Canada. They had established trading relationships with French colonists who settled along the Atlantic coast and what was later called the Saint Lawrence River. The Mahican was located in western New England and in the upper Hudson River Valley (around what was developed by Europeans as Albany, New York). These groups practiced agriculture, hunting and fishing.\n\nThe Lenape, also called \"Delaware\", were (Munsee) and Unami speakers that were in what is now known as the eastern Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey, lower Hudson Valley and western Long Island areas in New York. They encountered the European explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano in what is now New York Harbor in 1524. \n\nFurther south were the traditional homes of the Powhatan, a loose group of bands numbering into the tens of thousands, who were among the first to encounter English colonists in the Chesapeake Bay region. Historic people also included the Nanticoke, Wicocomico, Secotan, Chowanoke, Weapemeoc, and Chickahominy.\n\nThe southernmost Alqonquin peoples were clustered around Pamlico Sound in what is now North Carolina, including the Pamplico, Chowanoke, and Roanoke.\n\nThe French encountered Algonquian peoples in this area through their trade and limited colonization of New France along the Mississippi and Ohio rivers. The historic peoples of the Illinois Country were the Shawnee, Illiniwek, Kickapoo, Menominee, Miami, Sauk and Meskwaki. The latter were also known as the Sac and Fox, and later known as the Meskwaki Indians, who lived throughout the present-day Midwest of the United States.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, many Native Americans from east of the Mississippi River were displaced over great distances through the United States passage and enforcement of Indian removal legislation; they forced the people west of the Mississippi River to what they designated as Indian Territory. After the US extinguished Indian land claims, this area was admitted as the state of Oklahoma in the early 20th century.\n\nOjibwe/Chippewa, Odawa, Potawatomi, and a variety of Cree groups lived in Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Western Ontario, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and the Canadian Prairies. The Arapaho, Blackfoot and Cheyenne developed as indigenous to the Great Plains.\n\nAlgonquian peoples in the present states of Wyoming, Colorado, southwestern Nebraska and northwestern Kansas were ancestors to the Cheyenne and Arapaho. The Gros Ventre are an Algonquian-speaking people that migrated to north-central Montana.\n\n"}
{"id": "43712967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712967", "title": "André de Cock", "text": "André de Cock\n\nAndré Emile de Cock (12 July 1880 – 18 July 1964) was a Belgian philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1947.\n"}
{"id": "419970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419970", "title": "Andrés Bello", "text": "Andrés Bello\n\nAndrés de Jesús María y José Bello López (; November 29, 1781 – October 15, 1865) was a Chilean-Venezuelan humanist, diplomat, poet, legislator, philosopher, educator and philologist, whose political and literary works constitute an important part of Spanish American culture. Bello is featured on the old 2,000 Venezuelan bolívar and the 20,000 Chilean peso notes.\nThere is also a decoration, the Venezuelan Order of Andrés Bello.\n\nIn Caracas, where he was born, Andres Bello was Simón Bolívar's teacher for a short period of time and participated in the process that led to Venezuelan independence. Being a diplomat for the new independent government that helped establish, he went with Luis López Méndez and Simón Bolívar on their first diplomatic mission to London, the city where he lived between 1810 and 1829.\n\nIn 1829, Bello went with his family to Chile. He was hired by the Chilean government and made great works in the field of law and humanities. In Santiago he held positions as a senator and a professor, as well as directing several local newspapers. As a legislator, he was the main promoter and editor of the Civil Code, one of the most innovative and influential American legal works of his time. In 1842, Under his inspiration and with his decisive support the University of Chile was created, an institution of which he became the first rector for more than two decades.\n\nBello was born in Caracas and grew up studying at the academy of Ramón Vanlonsten. He was the first son of the lawyer don Bartolomé Bello and Ana Antonia López, whose parents descended from people from the Canary Islands. He also frequented the Convent of las Mercedes, where he studied Latin under Father Cristobal de Quesada. After the monk's death in 1796, Bello translated Book V of the Aeneid.\n\nHe studied Liberal Arts, Law and Medicine at the University of Caracas and graduated on May 9, 1800 with a degree of Bachelor of Arts. As well as having unfinished studies in law and medicine, he also learned English and French on his own. He gave private classes, with the young Simón Bolívar among his students. His translations and adaptations of classic texts gave him prestige, and in 1802 won, by contest, the rank of officer Second Secretary of the colonial government. During the period 1802-1810, Bello became one of the most intellectually influential people in the society of Caracas, standing in performing political work for the colonial administration, besides gaining notoriety as a poet, translating the tragedy Zulima Voltaire. He later became known for his early writings and translations, edited the newspaper \"Gazeta de Caracas\" and held important offices in the government of the Captaincy General of Venezuela. He accompanied Alexander von Humboldt in a part of his Latin American expedition (1800) and was for a short time Simón Bolívar's teacher. His relationships with both men became a major factor in cultivating his ideas for his intellectual career.\n\nBello spent ten years after his formal education in his homeland of Caracas. He authored two pieces of literary work, \"Calendario manual y guía universal del forastero en Venezuela para el año de 1810\" and the \"Resumen de la historia de Venezuela\"\n\nBoth works became widely accepted in Venezuela, and from this point Bello started his career as a poet. As time progressed, Bello further expanded his notions on humanism and conservatism. From his theories and ideas, Bello was eventually hailed as one of the foremost humanists of his time.\n\nOn April 19, 1810, Bello participated in events that helped to spark the independence of Venezuela, including the dismissal of Captain General Vicente Emparan by the Cabildo de Caracas. The Supreme Junta of Caracas, the institution that governed the Captaincy General of Venezuela following the forced resignation of Emparan, and immediately named Bello First Officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On June 10 of that year, he set sail on a diplomatic mission to London as a representative of the new Republic. He was commissioned, together with Simón Bolívar and Luis López Méndez, to obtain British support for the cause of independence. Bello was chosen for his knowledge and command of the English language, which he had acquired predominantly on his own.\n\nAs First Officer of Venezuela's Foreign Secretariat after the coup on April 19, 1810, he was sent to London with Simón Bolívar and Luis Lopez Mendez serving as Diplomatic Representative to procure funds for the revolutionary effort until 1813. Bello landed at Portsmouth as an attache to Bolivar's mission in July 1810. Bello had an admittedly hard life throughout his stay in England, though he managed to further develop his ideas and took a particular interest in England's social changes from the industrial and agricultural revolution. In order to earn a living while in London, Bello taught Spanish and tutored Lord Hamilton's children. In London, he met Francisco de Miranda and became a frequent visitor of his library in Grafton Way, as well as of the British Museum. Along with Bello, Bolivar and López also became friends with Miranda and used their opportunity to become known thanks to Miranda's accomplishments. During his lengthy stay in England, he curbed his feelings of homesickness and became contemporaries with thinkers and intellectuals such as José María Blanco White, Bartólome José Gallardo, Vicente Rocafuerte to name a few. He stayed in London for nineteen years acting as a secretary to legations and diplomatic affairs for Chile and Colombia. In his free time he was involved in study, teaching and journalism.\nAn English Heritage blue plaque commemorates Bello at 58 Grafton Way, his Fitzrovia address.\n\nIn 1812, Andrés Bello suffered economically as he tried to return home to Venezuela. The earthquake that occurred March 26, 1812, prevented Bello's family to help him financially in his return. Besides this, the fall of the First Republic ended the mode of financial support he received from Latin America and the arrest of Francisco de Miranda did not make any thing better. \n\nIn 1814, Andrés Bello married Mary Ann Boyland, whom he had been with for 20 years. He has three children, (1815), Francisco Bello Boyland (1817), and Juan Pablo Antonio Bello Boyland (1820). His family situation is constantly affected by his financial situation which is why he is always finding new jobs. He managed to work for the government of Cundinamarca in 1815 and to the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata the following year. In 1821, his wife died of Tuberculosis and shortly after his son, Juan Pablo died as well. \n\nIn 1823, Bello published the \"Biblioteca America\" with Juan Garcia del Rio which was widely hailed in Europe. In 1826 he published the journal \"Repertorio Americano\" to which he frequently contributed as both editor and poet. His two epic poems by which he was made famous, entitled \"Las Silvas Americanas\", were originally published during his time in London around 1826 and documented the emerging culture of the New World. The second of the poems \"la agricultura de la zona tórrida\" is the most famous of the two, and is a poetic description of South America's tropical lands in a style reminiscent of Virgil, a poet of great influence for Bello. His situation temporarily got better in 1822 when Antonio José de Irisarri, a Chilean minister in London, named Bello interim secretary of the legation.\n\nOn February 24, 1824, Bello remarried Isabel Antonia Dunn, whom he had 12 children with (3 born in London and the rest in Chile). Bello was able to become interim secretary again but for Colombia and took charge on February 7, 1825. This job was not what he expected as he was paid irregularly due to the financial crisis in Latin America. \n\nIn December 1826, Bello wrote a letter to Bolivar asking him to help out with his financial situation in London. Not only did write because of his economic crisis but because he believed that his friendship with Bolívar had disappeared. In April 1827, Bello wrote to Bolívar again but his situation did not get any better. Their friendship eventually came to an end when Bolívar gave Bello's position to someone else and Bello had to find another job. In 1828, the government of Chile offered Bello a job in the Ministry of Finance and on February 14, 1829, he finally left the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1829 he accepted a post in the Chilean Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Santiago, Chile under the administration of Chilean minister Diego Portales. While a surprising candidate considering his Venezuelan birth, he gladly accepted the post and was later named Senator of Santiago. As Senator, Bello founded the University of Chile in 1843 and held a position as Rector for the remainder of his life. Until his death at the age of eighty-three, Bello worked tirelessly to train the young minds of the new republic. Such brilliant thinkers and writers as José Victorino Lastarria and Francisco Bilbao were influenced by their time with Bello.\n\nThe , or \"Castilian Grammar Intended for the Use by Americans\" (\"Americans\" referring to Castilian- or Spanish-speaking inhabitants of the Americas), finished in 1847, was the first Spanish-American Grammar, with many original contributions, a product of long years of study. Republished over the years with many revisions, the most significant of which are by Rufino Jose Cuervo, this is still a valuable reference work. Bello was accepted in the Spanish Royal Academy of Language as Correspondent Member in 1861.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13603287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13603287", "title": "Ann Moore (impostor)", "text": "Ann Moore (impostor)\n\nAnn Moore (31 October 1761 – 1813) was an English woman who became notorious as the fasting-woman of Tutbury. From 1807 to 1813, she claimed to have eaten nothing at all, but her claims were eventually shown to be a hoax.\n\nAnn was born in Rosliston, Derbyshire, the daughter of a day-labourer named Peg or Pegg. In 1788 she inveigled into marriage a farm servant, James Moore, who soon deserted her. She then lived on her looks and became the mother of a large family. About 1800 she made her way to Tutbury to find employment.\n\nReduced to dire poverty, she subsisted on the minimum amount of food necessary to support a human being, and the astonishment created locally by her long fasts doubtless encouraged her to undertake the imposture which made her notorious. It was given out that she had lost all desire for food from November 1806. Six months later the interest taken in her in the neighbourhood was sufficient to warrant her in taking permanently to her bed. On 20 May 1807 it was reported that she attempted to swallow a piece of biscuit, but the effort was followed by great pain and vomiting of blood. 'The last food she ever took was a few blackcurrants, on 17 July 1807,' and in August 'she gradually diminished her liquids.' Details were multiplied in the pamphlets which narrated her case. One learned writer proved that she lived on air, another that the phenomenon was due to disease of the oesophagus, while a third was convinced that her condition was a manifestation of the supernatural power of God. Joanna Southcott declared that the advent of the fasting-woman presaged a three years' famine in France.\n\nAn investigation was set on foot in September 1808, and a succession of four hours' watches, undertaken by the chief inhabitants of the district, was arranged to cover a period of sixteen days. Bulletins were posted from time to time in Tutbury, to record progress, and a list of the watchers was published. At the commencement of the ordeal Mrs. Moore was described as terribly worn and emaciated, but as it progressed she sensibly improved in health and spirits. Robert Taylor and John Allen, two local doctors made communications on the subject of the case to the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal in November and December 1808.\n\nThe report of the committee was generally held to be conclusive evidence of Ann's veracity. For the next four years she continued to attract crowds of visitors many making a substantial offering. Mary Howitt, then Mary Botham, was taken to see her as a child as she explains in her autobiography. She says that her father told her that not many believed that she ate nothing but that she did eat very little. Mary said that she could only think of the following poem:\n<poem>\nThere was an old lady all skin and bone\nThis old lady was very well known\nShe lay in bed as I've heard say\nFor many years to fast and pray\nWhen she had lain a twelvemonth's space\nThe flesh was gone from hands and face\nWhen that another twelvemonth was gone\nShe was nothing at all but a skeleton\n\n</poem>\n\nIn 1812 she deposited £400 in the funds, but in the summer of that year Alexander Henderson (1780–1863) Physician to the Westminster General Dispensary, wrote an able \"Examination ' of the imposture\", showing the inconsistencies and absurdities of the woman's statements, and the curious parallel between the case and that of Anna M. Kinker, a girl of Osnabrück, who practised a similar imposture in Germany in 1800. Henderson reported that Ann claimed to have not eaten solid food for \"upwards of five years\" and had not drunk liquid for four years. She claimed that she did not pass urine or any other matter.\n\nHaving survived one watch, Ann was subjected to another to check her claims. This one commenced on 21 April 1813, and continued till the 30th, when she was shown to be a cheat. She died a few months afterwards, aged 53 years.\n\nThe first set of doctors who investigated Moore were easily duped. According to skeptical writer Bergen Evans:\n\nThe credulousness of the first set of watchers was revealed in her admission that during the whole sixteen days of her first observation she had been fed by her daughter while the watchers were in the room. The younger woman had soaked towels in milk and broth and wrung them into her mother's mouth while washing her face. She had also conveyed food from her mouth to her mother's while kissing her.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280561", "title": "Annie Glenn", "text": "Annie Glenn\n\nAnna Margaret Glenn (née Castor; born February 17, 1920) is an American advocate for people with disabilities and communication disorders as well as the widow of former astronaut and Senator John Glenn.\n\nAnna Margaret Castor was born on February 17, 1920 in Columbus, Ohio to parents Homer and Margaret Castor. Her father was a dentist. In 1923, the Castor family moved to New Concord, Ohio. There, Castor became childhood friends with John Glenn; the pair later became high school sweethearts. After graduating from high school, Castor attended Muskingum College where she majored in music and education with a minor in secretarial skills. She graduated in 1942. Even though she received an offer for a pipe organ scholarship from the Juilliard school of music, Castor declined the offer, choosing instead to stay in Ohio with Glenn. Castor and Glenn were married on April 6, 1943.\nLike her father before her, Glenn has experienced a speech stutter throughout her life. When she was young, it was determined that her stutter was present in eighty-five percent of her verbal utterances. At age 53, Glenn found out about and attended an intensive three-week treatment course at Hollins Communications Research Institute in Roanoke, Virginia to help with her dysfluency. After attending the course, her speech was greatly improved, however, she does not consider herself \"cured\" of stuttering. After attending the treatment course, she was able to interact verbally with others in a way that had been previously impossible. In time, she was able to give speeches at public events and at rallies in relation to her husband's political career.\n\nAt the time of her husband's death in December 2016, Annie and John Glenn had been married for 73 years and eight months. During the course of their marriage, the couple had two children and two grandchildren. Glenn's children are: John David, born in 1945, and Carolyn Ann, born in 1947.\n\nOrganizations in which she is involved include:\n\nIn 1983, she received the first national award of the American Speech and Hearing Association for “providing an inspiring model for people with communicative disorders.” In 1987, the National Association for Hearing and Speech Action awarded the first annual Annie Glenn Award for achieving distinction despite a communication disorder. Glenn presented the award to James Earl Jones as its first recipient. She was inducted into the National Stuttering Association Hall of Fame in 2004. In 2015, The Ohio State University renamed 17th Avenue (on its campus) to Annie and John Glenn Avenue. The road is located in close proximity to the John Glenn College of Public Affairs and crosses through the heart of The Ohio State University’s academic core.\n\nGlenn is an adjunct professor with Ohio State’s Speech Pathology Department. In 2009, the university awarded her an honorary Doctorate of Public Service to recognize her work on behalf of children and others. The department awards the “Annie Glenn Leadership Award” annually to someone who has displayed innovative and inspirational work in speech/language pathology.\n\nGlenn was played by Mary Jo Deschanel in the 1983 movie \"The Right Stuff\". The film highlighted her stuttering problem, particularly in a scene involving then-Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson during the buildup to John Glenn's \"Friendship 7\" flight. In the 2015 ABC-TV series \"The Astronaut Wives Club\", Annie is portrayed by Azure Parsons.\n"}
{"id": "3071455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3071455", "title": "Arnold \"Poet\" Jackson", "text": "Arnold \"Poet\" Jackson\n\nPoet, played by muMs da Schemer, is a fictional character in the HBO series \"Oz\".\n\n\"Prisoner #96J352. Convicted February 15, 1996 - Armed robbery, attempted murder, possession of a deadly weapon. Sentence: 16 years, eligible for parole in nine. Granted early release in 1998. Returned as inmate #98J448, convicted July 20, 1998, on one count of 2nd degree murder. Sentence: 26 years, eligible for parole in 19.\"\n\nPoet is a heroin addict imprisoned for armed robbery and attempted murder. He composes and recites free verse poetry and regularly practices and performs in front of other inmates. He gets paroled early with the help of Kareem Saïd and Tim McManus. His freedom is short-lived, however, as he soon kills a drug dealer who came after him to collect the money he owed. When back in prison, he becomes a full-fledged member of the Homeboy gang, often acting as the second in command to whoever is in charge.\n\nPoet is one of the most incompetent members of the Homeboys, as he relies heavily on other gang members and inmates to solve problems. This is seen through Poet making little to no effort to sell drugs, and daring to get into fights only with backup from Kenny Wangler, Junior Pierce, or Reggie Rawls. Nevertheless, Poet remains as the gang's second in command throughout the series due to his intelligence and diplomacy.\n\nPoet has a limited role in this season, often reciting poems for the other prisoners during mealtimes. His poems often reflect the social problems and political decisions which adversely affect African-American men and their wider communities, as well as everyday life in prison.\n\nLet back into Emerald City as one of the Homeboys, Poet is enrolled in the GED program in Oz. Tim McManus, the unit manager of Em City, believes Poet is very talented and gets Muslim leader Kareem Saïd to help publish his work. He dedicates one of these poems to Kareem Said and another to the graduating classmates of his GED class while in prison. Poet does very well in the GED program, finishing at the top of the class even though he is made fun of frequently by Kenny Wangler. As a result, Poet is paroled early and sells several of his poems as a known author that are published in a book 'Unheard America'. However, Poet is still a heroin addict and spends all his profits on drugs. Drug dealers come after him to collect a debt at one of his book signings during his book promotional tour and he kills one of them in self-defense. However, since Poet was carrying a weapon without a permit and shot the dealer six times while on parole, he is in violation and sent back to Oz for murder-in-the-second-degree to serve twenty-six years.\n\nMcManus and Saïd are both disappointed and the Aryan Brotherhood congratulates Poet for messing up and getting sent back to Oz. While back inside as punishment, he must work in the morgue and is only accepted by Kenny Wangler and Junior Pierce.\n\nPoet is now referred to by his birth name of Arnold. Following the orders of Kenny Wangler, their attempt to murder Simon Adebisi is put on hold under orders from Mafia leader Antonio Nappa. Feeling guilty for wasting Said's efforts to have him paroled, a contrite Poet asks Said for permission to begin writing poetry again. Said gives Poet his blessing, but after Muslim Hamid Khan beats Poet's friend and fellow homeboy, Kenny Wangler, in boxing Poet publicly recites a sarcastic poem about Said's new relationship with a white woman. Because Said's behaviour has now become a public humiliation to the Muslims, he is eventually deposed and replaced by Hamid Khan.\n\nMeanwhile, when Wangler leaves temporarily to attend his girlfriend's funeral, Adebisi makes a deal with current Italian head Chucky Pancamo to take Wangler's spot in the drug trade. With the help of the Latinos, Adebisi burns Poet and Pierce with hot soup, putting them out of commission for a few weeks. When released from the infirmary, Poet and Pierce both have white spots all over their skin since the burn wounds burned off part of their flesh and caused a temporary change in complexion. Poet jokingly remarks \"I might be able to get a cab now\" since his skin for the time being appears whiter.\n\nIn Unit B, they tell Wangler that Adebisi must die but they are temporarily dissuaded when they learn that Adebisi is going to get Tim McManus replaced by an African American unit manager.\n\nPoet, Wangler, and Pierce are transferred back into Em City after Adebisi makes a request to Warden Glynn. Inside they torment a new inmate named Guillaume Tarrant. Adebisi puts a smuggled gun under Tarrant's bed, and the young man murders Wangler, Pierce, and a C.O., before turning the gun on himself. Poet is very upset that his best friends have died and Adebisi then suggests that Poet join him to take down all the white inmates. Poet remains loyal and as a result, when an African American named Martin Querns is hired in Tim McManus' position, things look up for Adebisi and his followers; they may do whatever they wish as long as there is no violence in Em City.\n\nSeveral transfers are made; mainly white and Latino inmates and guards being traded for blacks. Poet is asked to supervise Desmond Mobay, a Jamaican inmate wanting into the drug trade whom Adebisi does not trust. Poet and Supreme Allah are named trustees after the Italian and Latino inmates are transferred out of Em City. Poet becomes disgusted with what has happened in Em City under Adebisi's leadership (He is most disgusted by Adebisi's sexual behavior towards young black inmates) and secretly assists Saïd in taking him down. Homeboy member Leroy Tidd notices this and warns Adebisi, who decides to lie low until Saïd actually reveals what he is doing. Querns is fired and Adebisi dies when trying to kill Saïd, so Poet has now become the leader of the Homeboys by default.\n\nWhen a news crew comes to Oz, Poet makes statements that convince them that Oz is full of corruption. When inmate Burr Redding arrives, the older man informs Poet that he has been doing \"a shit job\" and convinces him to hand over leadership of the Homeboys. Unfazed, Poet willingly serves as Redding's lieutenant and sets up an attempted murder on Supreme Allah, who has been expelled from the Homeboys. Poet schedules a visit with Tug Daniels, the brother of Supreme Allah's murder victim, and smuggles a knife made from a sharpened toothbrush into the visiting room. Allah narrowly survives Tug's attack, however; Daniels is sentenced to prison for attempted murder, and Warden Leo Glynn sends Poet, protesting his innocence, into solitary confinement as punishment for assisting Daniels.\n\nWhen Daniels arrives at Oz, he assists Poet and Redding in a plan to murder all the Italian and Latino inmates. However, a worried Augustus Hill tips off the authorities, the S.O.R.T. team is swiftly mobilized and the Homeboys plans are ruined, with Hill then expelled from the Homeboys. When Tug Daniels is later discovered to be conspiring with Supreme Allah against Redding, Poet pays off the guards to allow Redding to stage a kangaroo court that ends with Daniels' death. Hill approaches Poet with some information pertaining to Supreme Allah's weakness; he is allergic to eggs. In the cafeteria, they mix several eggs into Supreme's food, who then dies swiftly and painfully. Poet then tells Redding about their success, and Redding allows Hill back into the Homeboys.\n\nEm City is reopened and Poet is among one of the Homeboys let back in. The Italians are taken down in a side battle with the Aryans. Redding calls a truce with Enrique Morales and the Latinos and agrees to work with them. Poet does not really like the Latinos and calls them spics behind their back. In the meantime, Redding gets control of the kitchen and the Italians removed so the Homeboys are now looking better. A guide dog program for the visually impaired then comes to Oz and Poet states his dislike for dogs being around him.\n\nA depressed Hill asks Poet and the Homeboys for some drugs. Hill accidentally snorts a lethal amount of heroin and goes into septic shock. Angry, Redding searches for the men responsible for drugging Hill and Poet is his first accusation. Poet lies, telling Burr to look at his enemies the Italians and Latinos instead of his friends among the Homeboys. Poet then uses Hill's overdose as an excuse to kill an Italian inmate as a means of drawing suspicion away from himself. With the help of Latino inmate Carmen Guerra, Poet gets Agamemnon Busmalis, a witness with no vested interest to lie about the Italians overdosing Hill. An Italian inmate named Salvatore DeSanto is falsely accused, and dies from an overdose of LSD Redding had put in his food. Hill then tells McManus that DeSanto did not give him the drugs and Poet, afraid for his life gets Busmalis to say the Latinos supplied Hill. The Latinos and Homeboys are no longer allied after the accusation is brought up and as a result, Morales now hates the black inmates.\n\nMeanwhile, Poet is paid by prison dentist Dr. Tariq Faraj to spread the word about a gum transplant that Aryan Brotherhood inmate James Robson receives. Amused by the fact that the gums are from a black man, Poet and Ryan O'Reily humiliate Robson in the cafeteria asking him first if he wants any \"Chitlins and Gravy\" with his lunch, then they announce that he got a pair of \"ghetto gums\" from the dentist. The Brotherhood is humiliated and kicks Robson out. Desperate to get back in with the Aryans, Robson buys cocaine from Poet, using it to numb the pain as he tries to remove his gums. The cocaine is woefully inadequate as a pain killer.\n\nAs Augustus leaves the hospital and Redding is released from the solitary ward, Poet then begs Hill not to inform on him, to which Hill agrees. Hill dies during an attempt on Redding's life made by the Italians and Latinos, who have reformed their alliance.\n\nThe Homeboys begin attacking inmates at random since Redding is too badly injured to lead them. Poet and fellow inmate Reggie Rawls, among others, are constantly robbing inmates and trying to sell drugs to get the gang back under control. Redding then tells them they are going to leave the kitchen and work as telemarketers. Poet, Rawls, and Kenaniah Maxwell, among others, are reluctant to do so. On the phones, Poet insults a woman for calling him a \"spook\" over the phone, and Redding fires him when he refuses to get back to work. The rest of the Homeboys follow Poet. Unknown to Poet, Redding requests that the Italians stop any drug transaction the Homeboys attempt to pull. This goes enforced as one of Poet's connections is run over 37 times by the Italians on orders of Chucky Pancamo. Poet then asks former Black Panther member Jahfree Neema to lead them who refuses, saying the Homeboys give black people a bad name. Desperate for work, they go to Zahir Arif who is running the prison printing press.\n\nPoet and Rawls offer to help new inmate Stanley Bukowski sell marijuana, but the Italians discover this and kill Bukowski. Redding destroys the book industry and forces the Homeboys to come back and work as telemarketers. As they come back, Poet is forced to beg his way back in as a worker. Poet, however, saves the Homeboys when he develops a plan to steal credit card numbers and have his cousin sell them on the street and give the homeboys a cut.\n\nAt the end of the series he is last shown evacuating Oswald with the rest of the prison population. His survival establishes himself as the last of the original members of the Homeboys and one of the few inmates who survived the entire series run and had been in Oz prior to the beginning of the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1498924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498924", "title": "Betty Oyella Bigombe", "text": "Betty Oyella Bigombe\n\nBetty Oyella Bigombe, also known as Betty Atuku Bigombe (born 21 October 1952), is the Senior Director for Fragility, Conflict, and Violence at the World Bank. She was appointed to that position in June 2014. From May 2011 until June 2014, she was the State Minister for Water Resources in the Uganda Cabinet. She was appointed to that position on 27 May 2011. During the same timeframe, she concurrently served as the elected Member of Parliament (MP), representing Amuru District Women's Constituency. She resigned both those positions on 1 June 2014.\n\nBetty Bigombe was born in Amuru District, on 21 October 1952, back when it was part of \"Acholi District\". She is one of eleven children by her father, who was a nurse. She is an ethnic Acholi. Bigombe attended Gayaza High School for her O-Level studies, graduating in 1968 and Trinity College Nabbingo for her A-Level education, graduating in 1970. She entered Makerere University, Uganda's oldest public university, graduating with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Social Science, in 1974. Later she attended the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, in Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States. She graduated with the degree of Master of Public Administration. Her studies at Harvard were sponsored by a Fellowship from the Harvard Institute for International Development.\n\nFrom 1981 until 1984, she worked as the Company Secretary of the \"Uganda Mining Corporation\", a government parastatal company. From 1986 until 1996, she served in the Ugandan Parliament as a Member of Parliament. In 1988, she was appointed State Minister for Northern Uganda, which required her to take up residence in Gulu, the largest city in the Uganda's Northern Region. She was tasked with convincing the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) guerilla rebels to lay down their arms, following the failure of military efforts to defeat the rebels. Bigombe initiated contact with the LRA leader Joseph Kony in June 1993. In 1993, she was named Uganda's Woman of the Year for her efforts to end the violence. Despite meeting with Kony, the talks collapsed in February 1994. Soon afterward, the insurgency intensified and no significant efforts towards peace would be made for the next decade.\n\nFollowing a ten-year stint in the Uganda Parliament from 1986 until 1996, she failed to win the parliamentary seat for Gulu Municipality in 1996 and left government service. In 2011, fifteen years later, she bounced back by winning the parliamentary seat of Amuru District Women's Constituency, on the National Resistance Movement party ticket.\n\nIn 1997, following her graduation from Harvard, she took up employment with the World Bank in Washington, DC, as a Senior Social Scientist with the Post-Conflict Unit. Later, she served as a Consultant to the Bank's Social Protection and Human Development Unit. In 1999 and 2000, Bigombe provided technical support to the Carter Center in a successful mediation effort between the governments of Uganda and Sudan.\n\nFollowing the February 2004 Barlonyo massacre, Bigombe took a leave of absence from the World Bank and flew to Uganda to attempt to restart the peace process. From March 2004 to 2005, Bigombe was the chief mediator in a new peace initiative with the Lord's Resistance Army, personally financing much of the logistics of bringing Ugandan government ministers and rebel leaders together. The last meeting on 20 April 2005, fell through. However, the failure of the Bigombe mediation is seen as laying the groundwork for the 2006–2007 Juba talks, which were mediated by the government of South Sudan. Those talks collapsed at the last minute when Joseph Kony refused to sign the peace agreement.\n\nIn 2006, she returned to the United States and served as a Senior Fellow at the US Institute of Peace in Washington DC. Later, she was appointed a Distinguished African Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, also in Washington, DC. In 2007, she received the Peacemakers in Action Award from the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding.\n\nShe was appointed the chairman of the National Information and Technology Authority in Uganda (NITAU) in 2009. In May 2011, she was appointed by President Yoweri Museveni as State Minister for Water Resources, a position that she held until June 2014, when she resigned to take up her current assignment at the World Bank.\n\nBetty Bigombe was at one time married to then Uganda's ambassador to Japan. She is the mother of two children; Pauline and Emmanuela. In addition to Acholi and English, she speaks Swahili and Japanese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38532029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38532029", "title": "Birendra Agrahari", "text": "Birendra Agrahari\n\nBirendra Agrahari (also spells as Virendra) is a Nepalese playback singer who primarily sings in Nepali, Oriya, Hindi and Bhojpuri languages.\nHe lent his voice for a debut Nepali film Undone By Love starring Dilip Rayamajhi and Jharana Bajracharya in 2004 which was released in Hong Kong and Nepal.\n\nAgrahari is a native of Butwal, Nepal.\n\nBirendra made his film debut with a song for the movie Pareni Maya Jalaima (Undone By Love) in 2004. He sings for several Nepali films, albums and has performed in many stage shows and events. Birendra sang in the music album \"Rumal Chhod Jau\".\n\nBelow is an incomplete discography:\n\n"}
{"id": "580524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580524", "title": "Charles Gunn (Angel)", "text": "Charles Gunn (Angel)\n\nCharles Gunn is a fictional character created by Joss Whedon for the television series, \"Angel\" and introduced by writer Gary Campbell in the episode \"War Zone\". The character is portrayed by J. August Richards, and was named by Whedon after filmmaker James Gunn and actor Sean Gunn, both of whom had worked with Whedon. Gunn is introduced as the leader of a street gang which protects its neighborhood from vampires.\n\nGunn was born in the Badlands, a section of inner-city Los Angeles where the police would not go, and looked after his sister, Alonna, from a very young age. Although he had a few brushes with the law, he acted as a modern day Robin Hood to keep the streets in his neighborhood safe. In his teens (although now Gunn is in his early 20s), Gunn rose through the ranks to become the leader of a group of street-fighters who protect their turf from vampires using guerrilla tactics. Possessing the mind of a military strategist and the strength of a brawler, life in the city hardened Gunn to the extent that his life became less important than the cause, resulting in him trading his soul for a truck in a deal with a demon named Jenoff when he was only seventeen, because he believed he had no future (cf. \"Double or Nothing\").\n\nGunn is introduced in the Season One episode \"War Zone\", when he observes the vampire Angel roughing up a blackmailer and tries, unsuccessfully, to dust him. Later on, a gang of vampires, who are at war with Gunn's group, attack their hideout, kidnapping several group members in the process, including Gunn's sister Alonna. Eventually, Angel wins Gunn's trust, but unfortunately not in time to save Alonna from being turned into a vampire. Gunn has no choice but to stake his own sister, a decision which continues to haunt him through the series. It is this loss that forces Gunn to question his own motives and become more receptive to Angel's help, realizing he cannot do everything alone. Angel recognizes Gunn's strength and often calls on him if he needs back up in battle or if he needs protection for the people he cares about when he cannot protect them himself. Although he initially regards his time with Angel Investigations as a \"paying side-gig,\" Gunn eventually becomes a full-time member of the gang, gaining mutual respect for those he fights side-by-side with while finding his place in the world. However, his work with his new 'family' often leads to conflicted loyalties; in the episode \"Belonging\", Cordelia is accidentally sucked into a portal to Pylea while a member of Gunn's old street crew, George, succumbs to the bite of a vampire. Gunn feels responsible for his friend's death, believing that it would not have happened if he had still been around to help in the fight. Yet even in his grief, he realizes that he could not commit the same crime twice and allow Cordelia to suffer the same fate, so he joins Angel, Wesley, and Lorne to rescue her.\n\nA short time after their return from Pylea, demons across the city are being massacred - regardless of whether or not they actually did anything to deserve being killed in the first place - and Gunn comes to the conclusion that his old gang is responsible for the deaths, currently being led by a man named Gio, who has a serious grudge against supernatural entities due to an unrevealed event in his past (cf. \"That Old Gang of Mine\"). He realizes that his ties with his old life are gone and that his loyalty now lies with the vampire with a soul. In a showdown with one of his lifelong friends, Gunn finally chooses the mission of the Angel Investigations team. Without realizing it, Gunn finds the future he thought he would never have. He has friends, loyalty, respect, and a mission to pursue. He even finds love in the arms of the new girl Fred Burkle, but his past still comes back to haunt him in the episode \"Double or Nothing,\" when the demon Jenoff decides it is time to cash in on a deal made years earlier by claiming Gunn's soul. The Angel Investigations are able to defeat Jenoff.\n\nFred becomes the most important person in Gunn's world, and in \"Supersymmetry\", he kills Professor Seidel (who deliberately sent Fred to Pylea) in order to save Fred from having to carry the burden of doing it herself. The guilt of what he had done for her plagues Fred and instead of bringing them closer together, it begins the rift that leads to the end of their relationship. Although no longer romantically linked, Gunn and Fred continue to fight side-by-side, and Gunn has a fling with the electric Gwen Raiden in the episode \"Players\". When Wolfram & Hart want to cut a deal to have Angel take over the L.A. branch, Gunn is led into the mysterious White Room where he is exposed to the mysterious conduit to the Senior Partners, who impresses Gunn with his immense power. Soon, he undergoes a remarkable transformation at Wolfram & Hart.\n\nFeeling undervalued by his friends, Gunn submits to a procedure at the hands of Wolfram & Hart's Medical Department that enhances his mind with a comprehensive understanding of the law (and Gilbert & Sullivan, to help improve his voice and diction), making him the only member of Angel's team who can work inside the system seamlessly (cf. \"Conviction\"). When his mental abilities begin to diminish, Gunn, fearful of losing his new talents and respect, makes a pact with Dr. Sparrow and gets a permanent upgrade in exchange for signing to release an ancient curio stuck in customs. When this curio results in the death of Fred and the resurrection of Illyria (cf. \"A Hole in the World\"), a guilt-ridden Gunn willingly offers himself to take Lindsey McDonald's place in a hell dimension in order to get information on how to stop the Senior Partners (cf. \"Underneath\"). While the team have no clue how to free him, Illyria saves Gunn with ease. He then returns to the fold, changed and seeking redemption for his sins. In the show's finale \"Not Fade Away\", he spends his potential-last day alive helping Anne Steele out at her youth help center, and then slays Senator Helen Brucker, one of the members of the Circle of the Black Thorn, but is seriously injured in the process. While preparing for one last fight against the army of the Senior Partners, Illyria states that he has only minutes to live with Gunn quoting, \"Then let's make them memorable.\" Joss Whedon later discussed the final battle in SFX Magazine: \"Gunn is dead. Illyria keeps fighting. Angel loses an arm. Spike gets Shanshu. And Xander loses another eye, which is funny, because he isn't even there.\"\n\nJ. August Richards later revealed in an interview that Gunn was intended to have become a vampire either in \"Angel\" season six or the proposed \"Spike\" spin-off movie had either project gone ahead: \"I’d probably have him come back as a vampire and then kill himself,\" \"That’s always how I wanted it to end for my character\".\n\nIn issue one of the \"\" comic series (which is the canonical continuation of the \"Angel\" series), Gunn and a group he has assumed leadership of storm a stadium and kill Kr'ph, one of the demon lords of L.A., who has taken up residence there. The group frees humans, who were forced to fight each other by the demon. Gunn then makes a suggestive comment to the demon's female captives. At the end of the issue, Gunn is revealed to be a vampire, having been turned either during or after Team Angel's battle with the Senior Partners' army at the end of \"Not Fade Away\", who feeds on the women and turns the \"rescued\" men into vampires as part of \"Team Gunn\".\n\nHowever, in the second issue, Gunn insists that he is still a good guy. He resents being a vampire, though he is prone to murderous impulses due to his lack of a soul. He reveals that he blames Angel for his condition, believing he had allowed him to be turned, and that he intends to save L.A. to prove that one doesn't need a soul to be a champion. As part of his plans, he kidnaps the psychic fish Betta George and imprisons him, forcing George to tap into his psychic ability to freeze Slayers in their tracks and contact people outside of Hell/Los Angeles.\n\nIn a later issue, he is seen making mystical plans; the intent is to have Angel come to the conclusion he sent Gunn to die, then Angel himself will die moments later. As part of his revenge against Angel, Gunn destroys the Wolfram & Hart building, Angel's headquarters in the war with the Demon Lords, which also forces Wesley back to the Senior Partners for a short time. Gunn later bears witness to Angel's defeat of the Lords, hanging back to ensure that not all of the people are slaughtered should Angel fail. Shortly after the team moves back into the Hyperion Hotel, Gunn confronts them and reveals his vampire nature.\n\nUpon seeing what has become of Gunn, Angel tells him he is sorry. Gunn says he figured he would say that, and tells him to table that for now. Gunn takes Angel around his base of operations, explains what happened to him. When Angel sees that Gunn thinks he is doing the right thing, Angel cautions him that the beast is the one in control, not him. Gunn attacks him, angered that Angel thinks that Gunn isn't himself. Gunn proceeds to remove all of the magic that had kept Angel alive, and realizes that Angel was actually now a human. Gunn decides to let Angel lie there and die slowly, only to be confronted by Wesley's \"ghost\", who reveals to him that the visions he has been receiving are from the Senior Partners rather than the Powers That Be. Ignoring this revelation, Gunn continues to attack his former friends, his team of Slayers apparently staking Spike- although Spike is later seen alive thanks to Illyria's timeslips- before he is kicked out of a window by Connor while trying to kill Angel again. Confronting Illyria, he tricks her into transforming into Fred so that he can shoot her, reverting her to her true form in the hope that he can convince her to use her powers to rewind time so that the Fall never occurs, only for Illyria to vow to unmake time itself. Realizing that the Senior Partners cannot allow him to die, Angel provokes Gunn into killing him, thus forcing the Senior Partners to reverse time to the original battle in the alleyway, giving Angel the opportunity to save Gunn before he is sired, the group subsequently taking Gunn to the hospital, where he falls into a coma. In \"Aftermath\" #18 Gunn is shown driving a sports car. Gunn seems to be recovering from his wound well, but was stated not to be ready to rejoin the team yet. In \"Aftermath\" #23 Gunn is spotlighted. It is explained how he was cured so quickly from the attacks at the end of the series and he and Illyria come to a mutual agreement and strike a friendship of sorts. In the end Illyria and Gunn take off to find adventure, slay demons, and find a new direction in their lives.\n\nGunn eventually returns to Angel Investigations, though he nonetheless faces multiple difficulties upon his return, as Spike and Connor still regard him as a traitor due to his actions in Hell and are distrustful of him. When Connor takes over the leadership of Angel Investigations after Angel is captured by Innovation Labs, a biotech company seeking to duplicate Angel's status as an immortal with a soul, Gunn, while still loyal to Angel's mission, left the team due to escalating disagreements and arguments with Connor. Gunn departs with the intent of starting his own crew and fighting the good fight his way, though he nonetheless intends to return when Angel is found. However, his attempts to start anew are briefly halted when he is attacked by Eddie Hope, an ice-manipulating devil who has been hunting down people for crimes they committed while Los Angeles was in Hell, while at a diner.\n\nIn the Angel & Faith series Gunn reconvenes with Angel, Faith and Willow after they come to LA from London in the Family Reunion arc. Gunn has been sending reports to Angel on Connor's normal life as well as updating him on the status of his other friends from LA. Gunn stays in the Hyperion Hotel to protect the tear in reality when the other four enter Qour'toth. He appears pleased at the positive place Angel and Connor's relationship has finally reached.\n\nIn the television series, Gunn is a normal human with no supernatural abilities, but he has strength and martial arts expertise due to his years as a vampire hunter, often being described as \"the muscle\" of Angel Investigations. Episodes such as \"Darla\" and \"Reunion\" have proven that Gunn is also a talented and intelligent investigator. In Season Five, he is given a \"legal upgrade\" by Wolfram & Hart's which gives him knowledge of all legal codes, both human and demon, as well as fluency in some demonic languages, knowledge of golf techniques and all Gilbert & Sullivan light operas. In the canonical comic book \"Angel: After the Fall\", Gunn is depicted as having become a vampire, acquiring superhuman strength, speed, reflexes durability, virtual immortality, accelerated healing, vulnerability to holy items and sunlight and the necessity to feed on blood to maintain vitality. He claims that his \"inner demon\" is partially subdued by his earlier Wolfram & Hart upgrade. By devouring a prophetic demon, Gunn also acquired its power to receive visions, which he believes come from the Powers but in fact come from the Senior Partners. At the end of the series, time is reversed and Gunn is an ordinary human again.\n\nGunn is a fan of pop culture and often displays a detailed knowledge regarding comic books:\n\nFollowing his mental upgrade, Gunn sheds his street look for the sleek, professional suits of a legal powerhouse. He also lets his hair grow slightly, having had it shaved in all previous seasons, which comes as a surprise to Cordelia in the episode \"You're Welcome\". In the final episodes, Gunn comes full circle, returning to his roots, taking back his street clothes, and reawakening his purpose as a soldier in the fight against evil.\n\n\n\nGunn has appeared in 95 canonical Buffyverse appearances.\n\n\nGunn has also appeared in \"Angel\" expanded universe material such as comics and novels, most notable his own one-shot comic \"\" in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "1474704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474704", "title": "Head gardener", "text": "Head gardener\n\nThe head gardener (also known as a curator) or as a Master Gardener is an individual who manages the staff of a large garden, landscape or park, such as a residential garden, botanical garden, theme park, public park, museum or roadside embankments and islands.\n\nA head gardener's responsibility may therefore cross over into the managing of or communicating with individuals from other disciplines, such as landscaping, construction and cooking and not be limited to gardening, the activity of growing and maintaining the garden. A large or stately property may include several different types of garden, such as the formal garden (also English garden), lawns, white garden, Japanese garden, miniature or bonsai garden, tropical garden, cold climate garden, rockery, fernery, water garden, herb garden, orchard, and the management of related buildings and setups such as greenhouses (hothouses, glasshouses and shadehouses), water features and aquaria.\n\nA head gardener may also be the directing gardener on a lifestyle television show; compare celebrity gardener.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33605375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33605375", "title": "Henry Jackson (Minnesota pioneer)", "text": "Henry Jackson (Minnesota pioneer)\n\nHenry Jackson (February 1, 1811 – July 31, 1857) was an American pioneer, businessman, and politician from Minnesota.\n\nBorn in Abingdon, Virginia, Jackson served in the Texas army under Sam Houston during the Texas Revolution. He moved to Green Bay, Wisconsin, then Galena, Illinois, where he opened a store. After some difficulties, he moved to Saint Paul, Minnesota and was the first merchant to settle there. He was also the first postmaster in Saint Paul and served on the Saint Paul Town Council. He was also appointed justice of the peace by Henry Dodge, Governor of Wisconsin Territory, for what is now St. Croix County, Wisconsin. From 1847 to 1848, Jackson served in the Wisconsin Territorial Legislature, in the Wisconsin Territorial House of Representatives, and in 1849 he was elected to the first Minnesota Territorial Legislature, serving in the Minnesota Territorial House of Representatives. In 1852, he help founded Mankato, Minnesota. Jackson County, Minnesota was named after him. He was a Democrat.\n"}
{"id": "5171586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5171586", "title": "I'm with the Band", "text": "I'm with the Band\n\nI'm with the Band: Confessions of a Groupie is a 1987 memoir by former groupie Pamela Des Barres.\n\nThe book tells the story of Pamela Ann Miller, a groupie who gets a kind of fame in the 1960s by having wild nights with musicians and actors. Pictures of famous musicians and actors accompany the many stories of her time in Los Angeles, California during the late 1960s and early 1970s. She recounts tales of moments shared with girlfriends The GTOs which they use as a way to outwardly express themselves. She becomes Frank Zappa's nanny as well as has relationships with Jimmy Page and with Don Johnson. \n\nHer escapades include travels to England where she spends time with Mick Jagger and others. She also travels to Europe before coming back home. She later falls in love with Michael Des Barres, an English glam rocker. She ends the books with the story of their wedding and the birth of her son Nicholas Dean Des Barres.\n\nThe book was described by Kirkus Reviews as \"a classic account of rampant narcissism among guitar egomaniacs\", and enjoyed considerable success, being issued as an audio book in CD in 1995, then reissued as a paperback in 2005, with an Amazon Kindle edition the same year.\n"}
{"id": "1083893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083893", "title": "Israel Vibration", "text": "Israel Vibration\n\nIsrael Vibration are a reggae harmony group, originating from Kingston, Jamaica. Lascelle \"Wiss\" Bulgin, Albert \"Apple Gabriel\" Craig, and Cecil \"Skelly\" Spence all overcame childhood polio, and went on to be one of the most successful roots groups to form in Jamaica in the 1970s. The trio initially met as children at a rehabilitation center. \n\nBulgin (born 1955), Craig, and Spence (born 1952) first met as children at the Mona Rehabilitation Clinic, all sufferers of polio in the epidemic that spread through Jamaica in the 1950s, but it was several years later that they formed Israel Vibration. Craig attended the Alpha Boys School but ran away at the age of fourteen, living on the streets. Spence was a member of the band Hot Lickers, appearing on Jamaican television with the group at the age of twelve. He also played in the Jamaican wheelchair basketball team, but was forced out in 1969 after adopting the Rastafarian faith, something which the three had in common when they were later reunited. \n\nSpence and Craig got together in Kingston and sought out Bulgin, who at the time was working as a tailor. They formed a vocal group, initially adopting the name Israel Vibration Israel Vibrates, soon becoming simply Israel Vibration. They survived on money earned singing in the streets for several years, and in 1975 attempted to launch a recording career at Channel One Studios, but the track they recorded there (\"Bad Intention\") was not released.\n\nFunding for their first album came in the form of a grant from the Twelve Tribes of Israel branch of Rastafarai after Hugh Booth, a member of the Twelve Tribes, had overheard the three men singing in a wooded area outside Kingston. Apple and Wiss were living in the area, which they had converted into a home. Recorded at the Treasure Isle studio in 1976, their debut release was the single \"Why Worry\", released on the Twelve Tribes label late that year. The single was successful enough for the group to be offered support slots at shows by artists such as Dennis Brown, Inner Circle, and Bob Marley.\n\nThey then began working with producer Tommy Cowan, releasing \"The Same Song\" (on which they were backed by members of Inner Circle) on his Top Ranking label in 1977, and an album of the same name followed in 1978. The album, and its dub counterpart, \"Israel Tafari\" (aka \"Same Song Dub\") were a success internationally, leading to a deal with EMI label Harvest to reissue the album in the UK, the label also releasing a second album, \"Unconquered People\" in 1980.\n\nFor their third album, \"Why You So Craven\" (the title track aimed at their former producer Cowan), they worked with Henry \"Junjo\" Lawes but disagreements meant that they left the album unfinished, with Lawes getting The Tamlins to complete it.\n\nThe group relocated to New York in 1982 to seek professional health care, and escape the growing dancehall movement in Jamaica, but struggled to break through there and they split up. They each attempted to launch solo careers, with Bulgin releasing the \"Mr Sunshine\" album in 1985, but by 1987 they decided to relaunch Israel Vibration. Having all been turned down when they approached Gary \"Dr. Dread\" Himmelfarb, founder of RAS Records, during their solo period, they received a positive response when they approached him as a group. They were flown to Washington, D.C. to record a new album at the Lion and Fox Recording Studios in College Park, Maryland, backed by the Roots Radics. \"Strength of my Life\" was the group's fourth album. The band stayed with RAS into the 21st century, releasing more than a dozen albums for the label. \n\nIn 1997, Apple Gabriel left the group to pursue a solo career, releasing the album \"Another Moses\" in 1999. Skelly and Wiss continue to record albums and tour the world as Israel Vibration, backed by longtime associates Roots Radics. In December 2014 they were reportedly recording a new album set for release in early 2015. The new album, entitled \"Play It Real\" was released on 31 March 2015 via Utopia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13741048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13741048", "title": "James H. Burton", "text": "James H. Burton\n\nJames H. Burton (August 17, 1823 – October 18, 1894) was born in Shenandoah Spring, Virginia. Educated at the Westchester Academy in Pennsylvania, Burton entered a Baltimore machine shop at age 16. In April 1844, he went to work at the Harpers Ferry Armory, serving as a machinist. He subsequently served as Foreman of the Rifle Factory Machine Shop, where he gained a considerable amount of knowledge and respect for the work of John H. Hall. Hall pioneered mechanized arms production and interchangeable manufacture at Harpers Ferry between 1820-1840. According to Burton, Hall's Rifle Works housed \"not an occasional machine, but a plant of milling machinery by which the system and economy of the manufacture was materially altered.\" During the next three decades, Burton followed Hall's example by furthering the mechanization of arms production.\n\nIn 1849, Burton was promoted to Acting Master Armorer. During the next four years, Burton experimented with improved designs for the Minié bullet at Harpers Ferry. The Minié bullet, introduced in 1848 by Captain Claude-Étienne Minié of the French Army, was a conical slug of lead slightly more than half an inch in diameter and about an inch long, with a hollow base which expanded when the rifle was fired. This prevented leakage of the powder gases, and served to expand the base of the bullet outward into the riflings of the gun barrel. Its effective range was from 200 to 250 yards – a significant improvement over previous bullets.\n\nBurton carefully documented his work in a set a detailed drawings. These drawings show that he was experimenting with several different Minié bullet designs. According to Colonel Benjamin Huger of the Ordnance Department, Burton was studying the \"tige\" and Minié principles (the \"tige\" bullet had a steel stem designed to expand the bullet into the weapon's rifling). Burton designed a barrel which used a hard metal plug to expand the bullet into the rifling, and developed a hollow-base bullet design that worked even better. In 1855, Burton's modified design for the Minié bullet was adopted by the United States Army.\n\nIn 1854, Burton left Harpers Ferry to take a job with the Ames Manufacturing Company of Chicopee, Massachusetts, which supplied both federal armories with precision machinery for the manufacture of firearms. Just one year later, in June 1855, Burton accepted a five-year contract as Chief Engineer of the Royal Small Arms Manufactory in Enfield Lock, England. Here, Burton was responsible for setting up new production machinery purchased in the United States, much of it from Ames.\n\nBurton returned briefly to Harpers Ferry in June 1859 to marry Eugenia Harper Mauzy. The wedding took place in the Harpers Ferry Presbyterian Church on Shenandoah Street in the Lower Town. Just four months later, after their return to England, James and Eugenia Burton learned the startling news of John Brown's Raid in a series of emotional letters from Eugenia's parents, George and Mary Mauzy.\n\nThe sectional divisiveness brought about by John Brown's Raid soon affected the life of James H. Burton. On January 21, 1860, the Virginia assembly passed a bill \"For the better defence [sic] of the State.\" The old Virginia Manufactory of Arms – renamed the Richmond Armory in 1861 – was reactivated after being shut down for 38 years. When J.R. Anderson & Company was awarded a large contract to supply machinery for the reactivated manufactory, the firm engaged Burton to engineer the Richmond Armory contract in November 1860. On December 4, Burton returned to Harpers Ferry to obtain model rifled musket patterns and components for his new employer, returning to Richmond with a large portfolio of drawings.\n\nIn June 1861, Burton was appointed superintendent of the Richmond Armory, where his complete familiarity with the machinery for manufacturing United States firearms proved indispensable to the Confederacy. In fact, much of the machinery at Richmond had been confiscated from the Harpers Ferry Armory by Confederate forces in June 1861 under Burton's own direction.\n\nBurton was commissioned Lieutenant Colonel in the Confederate States Army in December 1861, and placed in charge of all Southern armories. In June 1862, Burton left Richmond for Macon, Georgia, where he established a new armory for the Confederacy. One year later Burton traveled to England to \"purchase and contract for the machinery, tools and material required for the new Armory.\" Burton returned to Macon in October 1863, where he awaited delivery of several shipments of machinery from the firm Greenwood & Batley of Leeds, England. The machinery and tools were finally shipped to Bermuda in late 1864, where they awaited reshipment to run the Union naval blockade. But then the Civil War ended.\n\nBurton was taken prisoner along with the Confederate garrison at Macon in April 1865. He subsequently signed the \"Oath of Allegiance to the United States\" and on October 4, 1865, was granted a Presidential pardon by Andrew Johnson.\n\nAfter the war, Burton returned to England to superintend a new armory for Greenwood & Batley. Returning to the United States in 1868, Burton took up residence in Leesburg, Virginia. He returned to Leeds, England in 1871 to engineer a firearms contract for the Russian Government. But ill health intervened, and in 1873 he returned to Virginia for good and took up farming near Winchester, Virginia. Here, James H. Burton died on October 18, 1894, far removed from the weapons technology he had been so instrumental in developing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52529705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52529705", "title": "Jean Skipwith", "text": "Jean Skipwith\n\nJean Skipwith, Lady Skipwith (February 21, 1747 or 1748 - May 19, 1826) was a Virginia plantation owner and manager who is noted for her extensive garden, botanical manuscript notes, and library. At the time of her death, her library was perhaps the largest existing library assembled by a woman.\n\nBorn Jane Miller, February 21, 1747 or 1748, in Prince George County, Virginia, youngest of four children of Hugh and Jane (Bolling) Miller, tobacco grower, merchant, and vestryman of Old Blandford Church of Bristol Parish, Petersburg, VA.; Mr. Miller returned to Scotland with his family before December 8, 1760.\n\nJean's older sister, Anne, had married Sir Peyton Skipwith, 7th Baronet, in 1765. Anne died in childbirth in 1779.\n\nWhile it is unclear where or with whom Jean Miller was living in Scotland between 1760 and 1786, the Skipwith Family Papers show bills and receipts for Miller's book purchases in Edinburgh in 1781, and Miller was back in Virginia by 1786. On September 7, 1788, Sir Peyton wrote to Jean Miller (then living at Sir Peyton's Elm Hill Plantation), expressing his wish \"to complete a union on which my future happiness so much and so immediately depends.\" He requested her permission to tell his daughter that, on a journey to Cototoman, he would be accompanied by \"Lady Skipwith and not Miss Miller . . . by their [new] mother and not their aunt.\" They were married on September 25, 1788 in Granville, North Carolina, and by April 1789, Lady Skipwith was corresponding with Samuel Goode regarding hop roots. Lady Skipwith's first daughter, Helen, was born June 25, 1789 at Elm Hill Plantation.\n\nIn January, 1788, letters to Sir Peyton began to be addressed to him at his new house, Prestwould Plantation, in Mecklenberg County, named for Prestwold Hall, the country home of the Skipwith family. Originally, the plantation had been acquired by William Byrd II and named \"Blue Stone Castle.\" On November 6, 1765, Sir Peyton paid William Byrd III 200 pounds for the plot of Blue Stone Castle land that would become Prestwould (deeded Oct. 30, 1765). The family moved to Prestwould in 1797, a Georgian-style house sitting above the Roanoke River. Prestwould Plantation, its outbuildings, and its grounds are now a National Historic Landmark and are open to the public, including what may be the earliest known slave house in Virginia. This was a working tobacco plantation with farm and livestock, a mill, blacksmith shop, store, ferry, and where thoroughbred horses were raised. The plantation's records reflect many skilled laborers, as well as meticulous bills of sale for slaves. By the time of Sir Peyton Skipwith's death in 1805, the Skipwiths owned over 200 slaves. \n\nPrestwould's extensive archives are held by The College of William & Mary, Earl Gregg Swem Library Special Collections. These include plans for the house and gardens.\n\nIt was at Prestwould Plantation that Lady Skipwith had her garden built by enslaved laborers overseen by Samuel Dedman. A receipt signed by Samuel Dedman on April 24, 1801 states that Dedman had received \"Twenty two dollars in part for my services in building [the] Garden.\" Dedman must have worked closely with Lady Skipwith to carry out her design, for two sketches in Lady Skipwith's hand map out several garden plots. Her sketches feature highly-organized garden plots crisscrossed by \"boardwalks,\" some wide enough for wheelbarrows, pony carts, or couples taking exercise to pass through. The plans also indicate where Lady Skipwith intended to plant verbena, strawberry, crocus, phlox, violets, pansies, and portulaca, as well as annuals and shrubbery. \n\nThe archives include records of Lady Skipwith's orders for vegetables, roots and bulbs, which she grew in raised beds. She ordered from Prince Nurseries on Long Island, as did George Washington and Thomas Jefferson. \n\nLady Skipwith often corresponded with neighbors, requesting cuttings of plants she could then add to her own collections, or offering gardening advice of her own. \"Plumb Stones,\" for instance, were acquired from \"General Parsons.\" Her extensive botanical notes also describe where each kind of plant was grown at Prestwould, what the ideal conditions for its growth were, and how it should be cared for. She listed the many wildflowers she collected, including trillium and viola, identifying them from Philip Miller's Gardener's Dictionary—and noting when they were not in that source. For instance, she recorded that \"The Sealy Pink coloured root from the Point of the Island\" was of the \"9th Sort -- Miller.\" She kept records of her fruit crops, notes on how to raise trees from cuttings, and lists of what she planted. \"Wintering plants,\" including \"Oranges, Lemons, and Limes\" were grown in a glass-walled orangery abutting the garden. Lady Skipwith's botanical notes often connected a plant with its use. Of a particular kind of apple, the \"Maryland Red Steeck,\" Lady Skipwith noted that it \"Makes a fine strong Cyder and keeps through the winter better than almost any other apples.\" \n\nLady Skipwith was a keeper of lists. She listed \"Shrubs to be got when I can\". Among her house plants she listed, not only oranges, lemons, and limes, but also oleander, dwarf myttle, rose geranium and chrysanthemum, observing that those would \"live in the garden through the winter though the first frost would destroy the flower.\" Living, as she did, far from markets and major trade routes, Lady Skipwith also listed, for example, \"Bulbous roots to get when in my power. . . . Meadow saffron a bulbous root about the size of a tulip, flowers in autumn and the leaves continue green all winter. Called by the common people Naked Ladies, great varieties may be obtained from seed\".\n\nAfter her husband's death in 1805, Lady Skipwith managed Prestwould Plantation for the next 21 years. \n\nLady Skipwith died on May 19th, 1826. Of her death \"after an illness of 3 days,\" Dr. Robert Redd of Mecklenburg County, Virginia, noted that \"she, to the last, would not allow a Physician to be sent for. The character of this truly unique woman is well known. -- May her everlasting life be as happy as her days here were profitable.\"\n\nBy her death, Lady Skipwith had acquired a library of more than 850 volumes. Her library was, perhaps, the largest library assembled by a woman of that era. Her collection, the product of an independent and curious mind, also reflected her interests in botany, gardening, travel, geography, and history. Her collection also included a will, which allowed her daughters and daughter-in-law to choose 200 books each from her library, and left her son-in-law her Encyclopædia Britannica.\n"}
{"id": "14439096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14439096", "title": "Joan Curran", "text": "Joan Curran\n\nJoan Elizabeth Curran (26 February 1916 – 10 February 1999) was a Welsh scientist who played important roles in the development of radar and the atomic bomb during the Second World War. She invented chaff, a radar countermeasure technique credited with reducing losses among Allied bomber crews. She also worked on the development of the proximity fuse and the electromagnetic isotope separation process for the atomic bomb.\n\nJoan Elizabeth Strothers was born on 26 February 1916 in Swansea, Wales, the daughter of an optician, Charles William Strothers, and his wife, Margaret Beatrice, née Millington. She was educated at Swansea Girls' High School, and in 1934 won an open scholarship to Newnham College, Cambridge. In 1935, she rowed for the ladies' university eight, in the first real Women's boat race against Oxford. She gained an honours degree in physics, which was not awarded because it was before women were allowed Cambridge degrees. In her seventies, in 1987, she was honoured with the degree of Doctor of Laws honoris causa by the University of Strathclyde.\n\nStrothers, who \"had the scientific equivalent of gardening green fingers\", was awarded a government grant to study for a higher degree, and elected to go to the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge, where she joined Sam Curran in a team under the direction of Philip Dee. She soon established a reputation for \"extreme dexterity and being outstandingly neat and skilful in the deployment of equipment.\" In 1939, Dee proposed that the team spend a month at the Royal Aircraft Establishment at Farnborough Airfield. They arrived on 1 September 1939. Two days later, Britain declared war on Germany, and Britain entered the Second World War.\n\nInstead of returning to the Cavendish, the team moved to Exeter, where Dee and three others worked on developing rockets as anti-aircraft weapons, while Strothers and Curran joined a group under John Coles working on the development of the proximity fuse. Strothers was based at Leeson House and Durnford School. She and Curran developed a workable fuse, which was codenamed VT, an acronym of \"Variable Time fuze\". The system was a small, short-range, Doppler radar that used a clever circuit. However, Britain lacked the capacity to mass-produce the fuze, so the design was shown to the United States by the Tizard Mission in late 1940. The Americans perfected and mass-produced the fuse. In due course, these proximity fuses arrived in the United Kingdom, where they played an important part in the defence of the kingdom against the V-1 flying bomb.\nStrothers married Curran on 7 November 1940. Soon afterwards they were transferred to the Telecommunications Research Establishment near Swanage, where Sam worked on centimetric radar, while Joan joined the Counter Measures Group in an adjoining lab. It was with this group, at Swanage, and later at Malvern, that Joan devised the technique that was codenamed Window, which is also known as chaff. She tried various types of radar reflectors, including wires and sheets, before settling on strips of tin foil wide and long that could be scattered from bombers, thus disrupting the enemy's radar. Window was first employed in Operation Gomorrah, a series of raids on Hamburg, and resulted in a much lower loss rate than usual. As part of Operation Taxable on 5–6 June 1944, Window was dropped by Avro Lancasters of 617 Squadron to synthesise a phantom invasion force of ships in the Straits of Dover and keep the Germans unsure as to whether the brunt of the Allied assault would fall on Normandy or in the Pas de Calais area. R. V. Jones later declared: \"In my opinion, Joan Curran made an even greater contribution to victory, in 1945, than Sam.\"\n\nIn early 1944 the Currans were part of a group of British scientists invited to go to the US to take part in the Manhattan Project – the Allied project to develop an atomic bomb. They joined the British Mission at the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory in California, headed by Mark Oliphant, a distinguished Australian scientist that Joan knew from the Cavendish Laboratory. Oliphant also acted as \"de facto\" deputy to Ernest Lawrence, the director of the Radiation Laboratory. The mission of the laboratory was to develop the electromagnetic isotope separation process to create enriched uranium for use in atomic bombs.\n\nWhile at Berkeley, Joan gave birth to her first child, a daughter, Sheena, who was born severely mentally handicapped. They later had three sons, all of whom went on to complete a PhD.\n\nAfter the war ended, Sam took up an offer from Dee to become Professor of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow University. In Glasgow, the Currans, together with a few friends, set up the Scottish Society for the Parents of Mentally Handicapped Children (Enable), which eventually grew to 100 branches and more than 5000 members. Later, when Joan was a member of the Greater Glasgow Health Board and the Scottish Special Housing Association, the needs of the disabled were always at the forefront of her mind, and she did much to promote their welfare. She took a close interest in the work of the Council for Access for the Disabled and helped improve the range of facilities, especially for disabled university students.\n\nSam worked at the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment at Aldermaston on the development of the British hydrogen bomb from 1955 to 1959. He returned to Glasgow in 1959 as principal the Royal College of Science and Technology. When it became the University of Strathclyde in 1964, the first new university in Scotland in 384 years, he became its first Principal and Vice Chancellor. While her husband was Principal, Joan founded the Strathclyde Women's Group and became its president.\n\nDuring the war the Polish 1st Armoured Division had been based in Scotland, establishing ties between the community and Poland. Joan promoted a special relationship with the Technical University of Lodz, and also devoted care and attention to the children's hospital of that city. Later she established the Lady Curran Endowment fund for overseas, particularly Polish, students.\n\nSam died on 25 February 1998. While gravely ill with cancer in 1998, Joan unveiled a memorial plaque in Barony Hall, Glasgow, to commemorate her husband, and it was announced that the walled garden at Ross Priory, on Loch Lomondside, was to be named in her honour, and the Joan Curran Summer House would be built there. Joan died on 10 February 1999, and was cremated at the Daldowie Crematorium. Her daughter, Sheena, three sons and three grandsons survived her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22796481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22796481", "title": "John William Smith (politician)", "text": "John William Smith (politician)\n\nJohn William Smith (November 4, 1792 – January 12, 1845) (born William John Smith in Virginia) was a Texas political figure, the first mayor of San Antonio under the Republic of Texas and the first mayor of San Antonio under the state of Texas. He supported and served Texas during the struggle for Texas Independence.\n\nSmith was born as the second son of John and Isabel Smith. He grew up in Ralls County, Missouri after moving from his birth state of Virginia, and received an expensive education. He married Harriet Stone in Hannibal, Missouri sometime between 1821 and 1822. They had three known children, Samuel, Mary Elizabeth and Lucinda.\n\nHis first elected position was in 1822 as Sheriff of Ralls County and State and County tax Collector. He resigned from the post in 1826 to move to Texas following the birth of his third child. His wife refused to accompany him and filed for divorce. She ultimately came to Texas with her second husband.\n\nSmith moved to Mexican Texas and settled in San Antonio. In Texas, he changed his first and middle names around because \"William\" was difficult for Mexicans to pronounce. He was known throughout the town as \"El Colorado\", Spanish for \"Redhead\". He served as in the city as military storekeeper until 1835 also working as a surveyor (like his Texas contemporaries; James Kerr, Byrd Lockhart, and Arthur Swift ) and a civil engineer. While in the city (San Fernando Cathedral to be exact), he converted to Roman Catholicism and married a 15-year-old Spanish (her great grandfather Juan Curbelo came from the Canary Islands) girl named Maria Jesusita Curbelo.\n\nThrough time, Smith had become upset by the occupation of San Antonio by Mexican Colonel Domingo Ugartechea. He was arrested with A. C. Holmes and Samuel Maverick and was saved by his wife's pleas, which enabled him to escape and guide the final assault in the Siege of Bexar.\n\nHe served twice as a messenger during the Siege of the Alamo. On February 23, Smith and Sutherland were sent by Travis as scouts to assess the Mexican Army's strength and position. Upon locating the Mexican Army in strength, he immediately returned to the Alamo. That evening he was dispatched to Gonzales, Texas with a message from Travis. He returned to the Alamo from Gonzales, Texas on March 1. Before the final battle of the Alamo and its fall, William B. Travis sent Smith with a message for Washington-on-the-Brazos, allowing him to escape the fate that all Texas soldiers defending San Antonio ultimately succumbed to. After delivering the message, he returned with men to fight in the battle but heard no gunfire as their horses drank at Cibolo Creek. He was informed that the battle of the Alamo was over and headed eastward to fight at San Jacinto, where independence was won.\n\nHe was elected Mayor on September 19, 1837 and served until 1838. As mayor, he prohibited public bathing in the San Antonio River and San Pedro Creek between the hours of 5 a.m. and 8 p.m. He established that businesses must close at 9 p.m. on Sunday, and allowed for milk cows in Downtown as long as they were milked and in the corral before 10 p.m. Smith also regulated dog ownership, taxing citizens $2.00 for bitches and $0.50 for males. Although he did not run for re-election in 1838, he would run in 1840 and was elected. He served his second time as mayor until 1844. During this time, he constructed the city's first bridge across the San Antonio River on Commerce Street.\n\nHe was for a time postmaster of San Antonio.\n\nOther positions he held in Bexar County were alderman, tax assessor, clerk of the County Court, clerk of the Board of Land Commissioners, clerk of the County Probate Court, county treasurer.\n\nDuring the Republic years, Smith served as a commissioner, to treat with the Indians of Texas.\n\nFrom 1842 to January 12, 1845, he served the Republic as a Texas Senator.\nHe died on January 12, 1845, most likely from pneumonia. He is regarded as a hero and was honored as such upon his death.\n\nHe was buried at the Washington-on-the-Brazos State Historical Park, but his remains were later transferred to Washington Cemetery which is located on 19724 Washington Cemetery Rd, Washington, Texas in Washington County, where his body remains today.\n\n"}
{"id": "48690219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48690219", "title": "Joseph Baly", "text": "Joseph Baly\n\nJoseph Baly (1824 – 1909) was Archdeacon of Calcutta from 1872 until 1883;\n\nBaly was educated at Worcester College, Oxford, graduating BA in 1846 and M.A. in 1857. He was ordained deacon in 1847 and priest in 1848. He served curacies in Leicester and Falmouth. In 1854 he became Warden of St Thomas's College, Colombo. He later served as Chaplain at Allahabad, Sealkote and Simla before returning to Falmouth as its Rector (1870–1872). He was appointed a Fellow of the University of Calcutta in 1879. On his return from India he was Chaplain of Windsor Great Park from 1885 until 1906.\n\nHe died on 6 November 1909.\n\nHis daughter Amelia Baly was the wife of Field Marshal Sir George White.\n"}
{"id": "1913219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913219", "title": "Joseph Chatoyer", "text": "Joseph Chatoyer\n\nJoseph Chatoyer, also known as Satuye (died 14 March 1795), was a Garifuna (\"Carib\") chief who led a revolt against the British colonial government of Saint Vincent in 1795. Killed that year, he is now considered a national hero of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and also of Belize and Costa Rica. Vincentian politician Camillo Gonsalves described him in 2011 as his country's \"sole national hero\".\n\nIn 1772, the population rebelled. Led by Chatoyer, the First Carib War forced the British to sign a treaty with them in 1773. This was the first time Britain had been forced to sign an accord with non-white people in the Caribbean.\n\nBy 1795, it became apparent to the local population that Britain had no intention of obeying the treaty. The people of the Caribbean then rose in rebellion and were joined by a group of French radicals, inspired by the ideals of the French Revolution, who saw Britain as a traditional enemy of France. In the Second Carib War, Chatoyer divided the island with his brother Duvalle, who was another chieftain. Duvalle had a Guadeloupean lieutenant by the name of Massoteau. Working his way along the coast, Chatoyer was met by his French supporters at Chateaubelair, and together the forces worked their way to Dorsetshire Hill, from where they would launch their attack on the capital city, Kingstown.\n\nOn March 14, a battalion of British soldiers led by General Ralph Abercromby, marched toward Dorsetshire Hill. That night, Chatoyer was killed by Major Alexander Leith. Though the rebellion continued until October 1796 under the leadership of Duvalle, Chatoyer's death led to the desertion of the French supporters and without their aid, the tide of the war turned in favour of the British.\n\nAs a national hero of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Chatoyer is recognized with a monument on Dorsetshire Hill, where he died.\n\nAlthough Chatoyer died before the remainder of the rebels were deported to Roatan in Honduras, from where they spread along the Caribbean coast of Central America and became known as the Garifuna people; he is considered to have been a Garifuna warrior.\n\nA play based on his life, \"The Drama of King Shotaway,\" written by William Henry Brown, an African American from the West Indies, and Director of the African Theatre. It was the first play written in the United States by a black man. The play was produced by the African Company at the African Grove Theatre in New York City in 1823, but no manuscript survived.\n"}
{"id": "2934449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2934449", "title": "Juan de Garay", "text": "Juan de Garay\n\nJuan de Garay (1528–1583) was a Spanish conquistador.\nGaray's birthplace is disputed. Some say it was in the Castile city of Junta de Villalba de Losa, while others argue he was born in the area of Orduña (Basque Country). There's no birth certification whatsoever, though Juan De Garay regarded himself as somebody from Biscay (a region from the Basque Country). He served under the Crown of Castille, in the Viceroyalty of Peru. He was governor of Asunción (present day Paraguay) and founded a number of cities in present-day Argentina, many near the Paraná River area, including the second foundation of Buenos Aires, in 1580.\n\nIn 1543 he sailed to Peru with his uncle Pedro de Zárate in Viceroy Blasco Núñez Vela's first expedition. In 1561 he took part in the foundation of Santa Cruz de la Sierra. In 1568 he moved to Asunción where he attained political stature. The governor of Asunción sent him in April 1573, with a company of eighty men, on an expedition to the Paraná River, during which he founded the city of \"Santa Fe de la Vera Cruz\". In 1576 he was appointed governor of Asunción. As governor, he attempted to avoid bloodshed by bringing justice and civilization to the natives. To achieve these goals, he founded Indian villages and established local governments.\n\nIn 1580, having attained the rank of Capitan General of the Viceroyalty, he re-founded the city on the banks of the Río de la Plata, which was first established by Pedro de Mendoza in 1536 under the name of Nuestra Señora del Buen Ayre, but was later destroyed by the natives. Garay founded Buenos Aires a second time on June 11 in the year 1580. He landed on the riverbank in the location of Plaza de Mayo, calling the city \"Ciudad de la Trinidad\" and its port \"Santa Maria de Buenos Ayres\". Buenos Aires would become the main city in the Paraná basin and its most important port.\n\nLater, he went on an expedition in search for the legendary City of the Caesars (1581-1582).\n\nJuan de Garay died near the Río de la Plata, while travelling from Buenos Aires to Santa Fe on March 20, 1583, his group of 40 men, a Franciscan priest and a few women entered an unknown lagoon and decided to spend the night on the banks of the Carcarañá River, near the ancient Sancti Spíritus Fort. The group was ambushed by Querandíes natives who killed Garay, the priest, a woman, and twelve of the soldiers. He was then made King.\n\nGaray had a daughter, Jerónima de Contreras, who married Hernando Arias de Saavedra, the governor of Rio de la Plata.\n\nIn the oldest part of the town of Garay in Biscay is located a palace-baserri named Garatikua and built by Juan de Garay. In the 19th century, it was called \"Garay-Goitia\".\n\nAccording to García Carraffa, the Garay's coat of arms (gules with rampant lion in gold with a silver banner) indicates an origin from the noble Garay Family of Tudela (Navarra), already mentioned in the thirteenth century. Juan de Garay as a Biscayan had the title of knight, a title the \"Fueros\" granted to all the Vizcayans. The family had a certain economic and cultural level, it should be kept in mind that his uncle was appointed Judge and \"Alcalde Mayor\" of Segovia and his cousin attended the University of Salamanca.\n\nJuan joined the family of his uncle that was made by Pedro Ortiz de Zárate, his wife Catalina Uribe and Salazar and his cousins: Pedro Ortiz de Zárate, Ana Salazar and the youngest of the brothers Francisco Uribe. The three children bear different surnames, only the firstborn retains that of the father, while the others adopt the mother's surname (which was very common at the time). He also had a family relationship with Juan Ortiz de Zárate, third \"Adelantado\" (advanced) of the Rio de la Plata.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49823003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49823003", "title": "Kaitlyn Alexander", "text": "Kaitlyn Alexander\n\nKaitlyn Alexander (born October 9, 1992) is a Canadian actor, writer, web series creator and YouTube personality, best known as LaFontaine in the popular LGBT web series \"Carmilla\" (2014–2016). In 2016, their Kickstarter and Indiegogo-funded web series \"Couple-ish\" (2015–2017) was nominated for a Streamy Award.\n\nAlexander grew up in Ottawa, Ontario. As a kid, Alexander was very shy and only got into acting because it was a mandatory course in high school. Through that, they discovered how confident they felt while acting.\n\nThey attended University of Toronto Mississauga, in conjunction with Sheridan College, for Theatre and Drama Studies. They spent six months in Germany.\n\nAlexander began their YouTube channel on June 15, 2011. Their videos began to gain traction in 2014, when they became well known for playing LaFontaine in the web series \"Carmilla\". In 2016, Alexander played Max in five episodes of \"Full Out\". In the same year they starred in the music video \"Melete\" by Laurence Made Me Cry.\n\nIn addition to working as an actor, Alexander is also a musician and a writer. They are also the creator of the web series \"Couple-ish\", in which Alexander acts as a main character, writer, producer and theme song singer. They play the lead role, Dee, who is non-binary, pansexual and open to date all genders. The series was funded through a successful Kickstarter campaign, which raised over $29,000 CAD. In 2016, the series was nominated for a Streamy Award in the Best Indie category, but ultimately lost to \"Brooklyn Sound\".\n\nAnother successful Indiegogo campaign was launched in November 2016 to fund a second season, with a fixed goal of $45,000 USD. The second season premiered on April 29, 2017.\n\nAlexander is also the co-host of the \"Orphan Black\" after-show podcast.\n\nAlexander lives in Toronto, Ontario. They identify as queer and non-binary, and go by singular they pronouns. They have credited LaFontaine, the non-binary \"Carmilla\" character which they play, with helping them discover and accept their own identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "19583036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19583036", "title": "Kid Cudi", "text": "Kid Cudi\n\nScott Ramon Seguro Mescudi (born January 30, 1984), better known by his stage name Kid Cudi (; often stylized as KiD CuDi), is an American singer, rapper, songwriter, record producer and actor from Cleveland, Ohio. \n\nCudi first gained major recognition following the release of his first official full-length project, a mixtape titled \"A Kid Named Cudi\" (2008). The mixtape caught the attention of American rapper-producer Kanye West, who subsequently signed Cudi to his GOOD Music label imprint in late 2008. In 2008 his debut single \"Day 'n' Nite\" led him to prominence, reaching the top five of the \"Billboard\" charts. Cudi's debut album \"\" (2009) was later certified two-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). In 2010, he released \"\", which was preceded by \"Erase Me\" and \"Mr. Rager\". Later that year Cudi formed a rock band, now known as WZRD, with his long-time collaborator Dot da Genius, releasing one eponymous debut album in early 2012. The album debuted at number one on the Top Rock Albums chart. In April 2013, Cudi released \"Indicud\", which became his highest-charting album on multiple charts. In February 2014, Cudi unexpectedly released his fourth album, \"\", exclusively to digital retailers with no promotion. In 2015 Cudi released his rock album \"Speedin' Bullet 2 Heaven\" to negative reception. In 2016 he returned to hip-hop with his sixth album \"Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin'\" to generally positive reviews. Cudi later released a joint album with West under the eponymous name \"Kids See Ghosts\". The album was met with critical acclaim. \n\nAs of 2018, Cudi has released six studio albums as a solo artist and has sold over 5.2 million digital singles and has worked with numerous prominent artists in the music industry, including Jay Z, Mary J. Blige, David Guetta, MGMT, Shakira, Snoop Dogg and Michael Bolton among others. With his originality and creativity, as well as the emotion he conveys in his music, Cudi has amassed a large cult-like following among high school students, college students and stoners alike. After signing to GOOD Music, Cudi has since gone on to launch his own record label imprints, the now-dissolved Dream On and current independent label Wicked Awesome Records. In 2010, Cudi ventured into acting when he began starring in the HBO series \"How to Make It in America\". Cudi has since appeared in several feature films, including \"Goodbye World\", \"Need for Speed\" and \"Entourage\". In addition, he has made appearances on television shows such as \"One Tree Hill\", \"The Cleveland Show\" and \"Brooklyn Nine-Nine\". In 2015, he was the bandleader on the IFC series, \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\".\n\nScott Ramon Seguro Mescudi was born on January 30, 1984, in Cleveland, Ohio, and grew up in Shaker Heights and Solon. He is the youngest of four children, with two brothers, Domingo and Dean, and a sister, Maisha. His mother, Elsie Harriet (Banks), is a middle-school choir teacher at Roxboro Middle School in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. His father, Lindberg Styles Mescudi, was a house painter, substitute teacher and World War II Air Force veteran. His father was of African-American and Mexican-American descent, while his mother is African-American.\n\nWhen he was eleven years old, Cudi's father died of cancer; his passing had a significant effect on Cudi's personality and subsequently his music. Cudi attended Shaker Heights High School for two years before transferring to Solon High School. He was expelled from the school for threatening to punch his principal and would later earn his GED. Cudi studied film at the University of Toledo, dropping out after a year. His subsequent plan to join the U.S. Navy didn't pan out because of his juvenile police record.\n\nCudi first began rapping towards the end of his high school career, inspired by alternative hip hop groups such as The Pharcyde and A Tribe Called Quest. He moved to New York City to pursue a music career. Upon his arrival, he stayed with his uncle, Kalil Madi:\n\nShortly after he moved from Cleveland, a BAPE store opened up in the city, where he later applied for a job:\n\nWhile working there Cudi met future mentor Kanye West, for the first time after forgetting to remove an anti-theft device from a jacket West had purchased. His uncle later kicked him out, leading to his writing \"Day 'n' Nite\":\n\nCudi's early work caught the attention of Kanye West, whose then-manager Plain Pat, had introduced Cudi's music to him, subsequently leading West to sign Cudi to his GOOD Music imprint later that year. In July 2008, Kid Cudi released his first mixtape, \"A Kid Named Cudi\" (executive produced by Plain Pat and Emile Haynie), in collaboration with New York street-wear brand 10.Deep as a free download.\n\nKanye West first called upon Cudi to reference hooks for American rapper and mogul Jay-Z, and while in the studio Cudi and West went from working on \"The Blueprint 3\" (2009) to West's R&B-esque \"808s & Heartbreak\" (2008). Cudi’s assistance on the latter includes co-writing credits and or vocals on \"Heartless,\" \"Welcome to Heartbreak,\" \"Paranoid\" and \"RoboCop.\" Kid Cudi was a prominent songwriter and featured artist on \"808s & Heartbreak\", with \"Paranoid\" and \"Heartless\" being released as singles, while \"Welcome to Heartbreak\" charted as an album cut and peaked at number 87 on the Pop 100.\n\nKid Cudi's first television appearance was at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards, alongside Travis Barker and DJ AM. Cudi was promoted as an artist to watch for in media such as \"Rolling Stone\", \"Vibe\", \"The Source\", \"XXL\" and BBC News's 2009 Sound of poll. MTV News reported on Cudi on a series of reports \"MCs To Watch In 2009\".\n\nIn late 2008, Cudi was revealed to be included in \"XXL\"'s 2009 annual Freshman Class. He was featured on the cover alongside fellow up-and-coming rappers Asher Roth, Wale, B.o.B, Charles Hamilton, Cory Gunz, Blu, Mickey Factz, Ace Hood and Curren$y. On February 17, 2009, he appeared on Snoop Dogg's MTV talk show \"Dogg After Dark\", performing \"Day 'n' Nite\" at the end of the show. Two days later on February 19, 2009, Cudi appeared on BET's \"106 & Park\", alongside Kanye West to debut the music video of \"Day 'n' Nite\". On February 25, 2009, Cudi self-leaked a teaser trailer for the upcoming \"\" film, using his song \"Sky Might Fall\" in the background; later he posted that he made the trailer himself and was in talks to possibly making it official.\n\nIn February 2009, Kid Cudi also made a cameo appearance next to Solange, in the video for her song \"T.O.N.Y.\". On March 16, 2009, Kid Cudi performed on mtvU's Spring Break special, and the following day he performed three songs on NBC's \"Last Call with Carson Daly\". Cudi teamed up with partner and record producer Emile Haynie, to produce an exclusive single titled \"Switchin Lanes\", for the video game \"\", part of its \"South Central Premium Upgrade\" downloadable content (DLC), which came out March 19, 2009, for the PlayStation 3 and March 27, 2009, for the Xbox 360. He has also appeared as a musical guest on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" and \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\". In June 2009, he made a cameo in The Black Eyed Peas' video for \"I Gotta Feeling\", alongside David Guetta, where the two met for the first time and subsequently recorded their international hit \"Memories\". In 2009, he had also been on two magazine covers, \"Complex\" (August/September 2009) and \"URB\" (August 2009).\nHe revealed information about his future plans via his blog, saying that a possible collaborative album with Chip tha Ripper could be followed with a collaborative project with electronic rock duo Ratatat. On May 5, 2009 Iranian-American progressive house DJ Sharam, released \"She Came Along\", the lead single from his debut studio album, \"Get Wild\" (2009). The song, featuring Cudi, charted for 15 weeks on the Bulgaria Singles Top 40. It entered the chart on position 40 on week 30/2009, and its last appearance was on week 44/2009. It peaked at number 11, where it stayed for 1 week.\n\nDuring the summer of 2009, Cudi joined fellow up-and-coming rappers Asher Roth and B.o.B, for 'The Great Hangover' concert tour.\nIn late 2009, Kid Cudi was featured on the highly anticipated Jay-Z album \"The Blueprint 3\", on the song \"Already Home\". On September 14, 2009, BET premiered their \"Rising Icons\" profile of Kid Cudi. During the 30 minute show Cudi performed \"CuDi Zone\", \"Mr. Solo Dolo\", \"Day ‘n’ Nite\" and \"Make Her Say\". Cudi also discussed his childhood, his move to New York to begin his career as an artist and more.\n\nCudi's debut album \"\", was released on Universal Motown Records on September 15, 2009 and sold 104,419 copies in the first week and charted at #4. The album's lead single \"Day 'n' Nite\", Kid Cudi's greatest commercial success thus far, charted well in both the U.S. and in Europe. The second single released was \"Make Her Say\" (originally titled \"I Poke Her Face\"), which features a sample from Lady Gaga's hit single \"Poker Face\" and performances by Kanye West and Common. Common was also featured throughout the album, as the narrator.\n\nIn September 2009, Cudi co-headlined 50 Cent's \"50 Fest\" concert, along with fellow American rapper Wale. In a late 2009 interview, Cudi announced that the follow-up to his debut album would be a compilation album entitled \"Cudder and the Revolution of Evolution\", which would have many collaborations. He stated he had already recorded songs with Snoop Dogg, Travis Barker, Clipse, Cage and Pharrell, and would also like to work with Drake, Green Day, Kings of Leon, Robin Thicke, The Killers and The Postal Service on the album. It was also rumored that \"Man on the Moon: The End of Day\" would be followed up by a sequel titled \"Man on the Moon: The Ghost in the Machine\" and that the \"Man on the Moon\" series would be a trilogy. Kid Cudi was nominated for three 2010 Grammy Awards, for his singles \"Day 'n' Nite\" and \"Make Her Say\".\n\nIn January 2010, Cudi released \"Man on the Moon: The End of Day\"s third and final single \"Pursuit of Happiness\", which was eventually certified platinum by the RIAA. In 2010, Kid Cudi was featured on Snoop Dogg's re-release of \"Malice n Wonderland\", titled \"More Malice\", on the lead single \"That Tree\". Cudi also teamed up with independent artist Johnny Polygon, to remix Polygon's \"The Riot Song\", which appears on his mixtape \"Rebel Without Applause\" (2010). On April 20, 2010, Kid Cudi announced that the name of his second album would not be \"Cudder and the Revolution of Evolution\", but \"\". On June 11, 2010, Kid Cudi was arrested in the Chelsea neighborhood of the Manhattan borough in New York City and charged with felony criminal mischief and possession of a controlled substance. Despite his arrest, he was released and made it to Manchester, Tennessee in time to play at Bonnaroo.\n\nThe lead single from Cudi's second studio album, titled \"Erase Me\", features Kanye West and was produced by Jim Jonsin. The song debuted on a Cleveland radio station June 30, 2010, and was officially released to Rhythm/Crossover radio on August 17, 2010. The title-track \"Mr. Rager\", was released as a promotional single shortly before the album's release. The album, released November 9, 2010, debuted at number three on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart, with first-week sales of 169,000 copies. In its second week it crossed the 200,000 sales mark.\n\nIn 2010, Kid Cudi appeared on several songs for Kanye West's weekly free music giveaway \"GOOD Fridays\", including \"Good Friday\", \"Christian Dior Denim Flow\" and \"The Joy\", the latter of which later became a bonus track on the Jay-Z and Kanye West collaborative album \"Watch the Throne\" (2011).\n\nIn October 2010, Cudi had announced that he would be forming a rock band with frequent collaborator Dot da Genius, tentatively called Wizard. In early 2011, he announced that he would be releasing a mixtape titled \"A Man Named Scott\", reminiscent of his \"A Kid Named Cudi\" title, prior to the rock album. On February 26, 2011, Cudi took to his Twitter account to announce that Dream On, the record label he launched back in 2009 with partners Patrick \"Plain Pat\" Reynolds and producer Emile Haynie, has been dissolved. However, in an interview with \"Complex Magazine\" Cudi explained they were all still on good terms: \"I wanted to try something new, and I wanted to take control of things myself. Those are still my guys, Pat and Emile, and I'm still going to work with them in the future. When we start working on \"Man on the Moon III\" I'll be calling them up to see if they want to be a part of it. I know Emile is definitely down. We had an issue, but we’re men and we were able to figure it out and move forward. There's no hard feelings.\"\n\nIn March 2011, Cudi announced that a music video for \"Marijuana\" would be released in the spring, followed by a music video for \"Mr. Rager\" in the summer, then he would release a short film, directed by Shia LaBeouf, inspired by his song \"Maniac\", with Cage, in October 2011. In April 2011, while performing at New York City's Roseland Ballroom Kid Cudi announced he was launching his own record label. The new label, which he will be releasing his third studio album on is called Wicked Awesome Records. He also renamed his band on the same occasion to 2 Be Continuum, renaming it from the original Wizard. Kid Cudi explained his reasoning saying: \"I needed something more original, something different, but it's still wizardry at its finest.\" In 2011, Cudi landed a songwriting placement on English singer Natalia Kills' debut album \"Perfectionist\", for the song \"Free\".\n\nOn August 12, 2011, Kid Cudi released the music video for \"No One Believes Me\", directed by Fright Night director Craig Gillespie. The song, produced by Dot da Genius, features Cudi singing and contains elements of rock music. On August 21, Cudi announced that he would no longer be releasing the \"A Man Named Scott\" mixtape, so that he can focus on his rock project and his third solo album \"Man on the Moon III\". Kid Cudi released the music video for his second album's title-track \"Mr. Rager\", on September 8, 2011. The video has received all-positive reviews from critics and fans alike.\n\nDespite saying he will not do many more features for other artists in \"Complex Magazine\"'s October/November 2011 cover story, Cudi appeared on Bryan Greenberg's second studio album \"We Don't Have Forever\" (2011), Travis Barker's \"Give the Drummer Some\" (2011), The Knux's \"Eraser\" (2011), and Wale's \"Ambition\" (2011), respectively. On October 30, 2011, Cudi released \"Maniac\", a short horror film co-starring Cage and directed by Shia LaBeouf, through his blog. On November 13, 2011, a previously unreleased mixtape of material Cudi had recorded from 2002-2003, under the pseudonym Kid Mescudi, titled \"Rap Hard\" leaked online. On November 18, 2011 Cudi renamed his band for the second time to WZRD (pronounced W-Z-R-D). He also announced that the upcoming rock project would be released on his 28th birthday, January 30, 2012.\n\nIn late 2011, Cudi was mentioned in a viral video by vlogger Ben Breedlove, about his near death experiences. After Breedlove's death on December 26, 2011, Cudi commented on his thoughts about inspiring the young kid. \"I am so sad about Ben Breedlove,\" Kid Cudi wrote on his Tumblr blog. \"I watched the video he left for the world to see, and him seeing me in detail, in his vision really warmed my heart. I broke down, I am to tears because I hate how life is so unfair. This has really touched my heart in a way I cant describe, this is why I do what I do. Why I write my life, and why I love you all so much. Life is really f---- up sometimes, but I know Ben is at Peace, and I hope he gets a chance to sit and talk with my Dad. We love you Ben. Forever. Thank you for loving me. To Ben’s family, you raised a real hero, he’s definitely mine. You have my love.\"\n\nIn January 2012, Cudi appeared on two songs from Chip tha Ripper's mixtape \"Tell Ya Friends\", \"Ride 4 You\" which also featured Far East Movement and \"GloryUs\", which credited the duo as they are collectively known, The Almighty GloryUs. This led to speculation that a long-awaited project from the two was underway. On January 31, Cudi announced through his Twitter feed that he had completed \"WZRD\" and that his next album was the collaborative effort with Chip tha Ripper. In 2012, Cudi was featured on the \"The Hunger Games\", crafting an original song for the film titled \"The Ruler and the Killer\". Referring to \"The Ruler and the Killer\", Cudi wrote on his Twitter feed: \"I could not have done it without my producing partners on the project for the film, The legendary and Godly T Bone Burnett and Greg Wells!\"\n\nWhile working on the band's self-titled debut, Cudi claims he had writer's block for almost 5 months because of his new sobriety; something that had never happened to him for such an extended period of time. According to Kid Cudi, bands that inspired the album include Electric Light Orchestra, Jimi Hendrix, Nirvana and Pink Floyd. The album includes a song titled \"Where Did You Sleep Last Night?\", a cover of the same titled song by Nirvana, who in turn were inspired by blues guitar legend Lead Belly's rendition of the traditional folk song. Following \"WZRD\"'s release on February 28, 2012, the album debuted at #3 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart, with first-week sales of 66,000 physical and digital copies in the United States. The album also debuted on the Top Rock Albums and Top Alternative Albums at number one, and at #9 on the Canadian Albums Chart respectively.\n\nIn April 2012, in Geneseo, New York, Cudi performed before a sold out crowd and premiered a hip hop song, his first since 2010. During his set, he performed a new record, tentatively titled \"The Leader of the Delinquents\", which he did a cappella. On April 25, 2012 Cudi was officially back to rapping with the release of \"Dennis, Hook Me Up with Some More of That Whiskey!\". The song, the first ever solely produced by Cudi himself, samples his 2010 song \"Ghost!\". In June 2012, Cudi was seen in the music video for \"Mercy,\" the lead single from GOOD Music's compilation album \"Cruel Summer\", in which he, along with other GOOD Music recording artists were featured on. Cudi was ultimately featured on two songs from the compilation, \"The Morning\" and a solo track originally meant for \"\" (2010), titled \"Creepers\", produced by Dan Black.\n\nIn the summer of 2012, Cudi announced the title of his third studio album to be, \"Indicud\" when he tweeted: \"My new album is entitled \"indicud\", it will be my version of \"The Chronic 2001\", some songs i'll produce, others i'll feat &/or play songwriter\". On June 8, 2012, Cudi announced \"Indicud\", will be a double-disc album. On August 12, Kid Cudi released the lead single from \"Indicud\", a song titled \"Just What I Am\", featuring his friend and longtime collaborator King Chip (formerly Chip tha Ripper). The album was announced to be released in early 2013 with Cudi focusing on scoring movies, followed by the third installment of the \"Man on the Moon\" series. Cudi then added that \"Indicud\" \"will feature more uptempos and that it will consist of at most 17 new songs.\" The music video for \"Just What I Am\", which marked Cudi's directorial debut, premiered November 6, 2012 on VEVO and was shot in Los Angeles with fans invited to participate in the video’s shoot. On November 7, he revealed the album's second official single's title to be \"Immortal\", and that it again was produced by himself like the two previous releases, \"Just What I Am\" and \"King Wizard\". He claimed the song \"will make you feel amazing in the heart and soul.\" The song was officially released via iTunes on March 14, 2013.\n\nOn March 14, 2013 Kid Cudi performed at MySpace’s South by Southwest (SXSW) secret show in Austin, Texas and after performing his many hits, he previewed a new verse from \"Indicud\". He also revealed that the album would feature 18 tracks, while officially confirming ASAP Rocky and Michael Bolton as featured guests. On March 16, Cudi announced that he would release the album's tracklist and cover art on April 2. Three days later, Kid Cudi announced via Twitter that the album had officially been completed and turned in to his label, Universal Republic. On March 26, the album's cover art and tracklist was unveiled by Walmart and later Complex. Later that day, Cudi appeared on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" and performed the album's lead singles; \"Just What I Am\" and \"Immortal\", as well as premiering \"Mad Solar\", which he performed a cappella.\n\nOn April 2, 2013, Kid Cudi announced on Power 106, that he was no longer under Kanye West's GOOD Music imprint. Cudi revealed he left the label on good terms, with him saying West respected his decision and will always be \"big brother\". Cudi's decision to move forward without West, was his desire to focus on his own imprint, Wicked Awesome Records and his friend, fellow rapper King Chip. After \"Indicud\" leaked online in its entirety on April 9, 2013, Kid Cudi decided to push the album's release date up to April 16. The album went on to debut at #2 on the charts by moving 140,000 copies. In late 2013, Kid Cudi went on tour in support of \"Indicud\" on \"The Cud Life Tour 2013\". The tour was announced on July 15 with tickets going on sale the following day. Supporting acts on the tour included fellow American rappers Big Sean, Tyler, The Creator and Logic.\n\nWhile on tour, on October 16, 2013 Kid Cudi announced he would be releasing an extended play (EP), sometime in the next three months. Cudi also revealed he would be producing it alongside Dot da Genius and that frequent collaborator King Chip, would appear on the EP. He then called the EP a prelude to his fourth album \"Man on the Moon III\", which he announced would be released in 2015. On October 19, 2013, Cudi revealed \"Going to the Ceremony\", a song he had released via online audio distribution platform SoundCloud, earlier in July, would be included in the EP. Cudi would also go on to reveal a remix of his hit single \"Day 'n' Nite, which was briefly previewed on the intro of his 2008 breakout mixtape \"A Kid Named Cudi\", would also appear on the EP.\n\nOn November 25, 2013, via his Twitter, Cudi revealed the title of the EP to be \"\". On December 16, 2013, Kid Cudi once again utilized SoundCloud to release \"Satellite Flight\", the EP's title-track. On January 27, 2014, Kid Cudi revealed on Twitter that \"Satellite Flight: Journey to Mother Moon\" would no longer be an EP, but a full-length album instead. In a February 2014 interview with MTV News, Cudi discussed the EP's transition to a full-fledged album and called the project his best work yet: \"I'm really excited because it's my best work, and it's a surprise. People weren't really expecting it. I've never done two albums within a year of each other.\"\n\nOn February 25, 2014, with only few hours' notice from Cudi, \"Satellite Flight: The Journey to Mother Moon\" was released exclusively to digital retailers. The album debuted at number four on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart, with first-week sales of 87,000 digital copies in the United States. On March 4, 2014 Cudi appeared on \"Chelsea Lately\", where he was interviewed by Oscar-nominated actress Gabourey Sidibe, to promote \"Satellite Flight\" and the 2014 film \"Need for Speed\". On March 12, 2014, Cudi released a song titled \"Hero\", a collaboration with American singer-songwriter Skylar Grey, recorded for the soundtrack to \"Need for Speed\". On March 15, 2014, Cudi appeared on \"The Arsenio Hall Show\", where he promoted the album, discussed the state of hip-hop, suicidal thoughts, \"Need for Speed\", and performed the song \"Internal Bleeding\", from the album.\n\nIn April 2014, Cudi appeared on the cover of the inaugural issue of \"Fat Man\" magazine. On April 24, 2014, while being honored as a mental health advocate by Didi Hirsch Mental Health Services, at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles, Cudi offered a special performance during their annual Erasing the Stigma Leadership Awards. On May 2, 2014, it was announced Cudi would headline Chicago's North Coast Music Festival, along with West Coast rapper Snoop Dogg. On May 11, 2014 Cudi revealed he would be writing and directing a short film for the \"Satellite Flight\" album cut \"Balmain Jeans\": \"Developing a short film for \"Balmain Jeans\", a story about a spontaneous electric connection between two strangers.\"\n\nIn a January 2015 interview, at the Sundance Film Festival, Kid Cudi expressed the possibility of releasing another album before the release of \"Man on the Moon III\": \"I'm always making music. The beauty in that is that I have a lot of material. And I'm actually thinking that it would be good to release something in the meantime, before \"Man on the Moon III\" comes out. Another Kid Cudi album, it's just kind of along the lines of what I did with \"Indicud\" or \"Satellite Flight\", which is just its own standalone thing but still a Kid Cudi album. The \"Man on the Moon III\" album is something that's gonna take some time but I know the fans are gonna be patient and I really appreciate that guys, thank you for your patience. But \"Man on the Moon III\" is coming, there may be an album before that just to tide you over.\"\n\nOn March 3, 2015, Cudi officially released his first song since his album \"Satellite Flight\", was put on the market. The song, which is titled \"Love,\" was originally recorded for \"Satellite Flight\", and samples Ratatat's \"Sunblocks\" and has been received with positive reviews. On April 4, 2015, Cudi announced via Twitter that he would be releasing a new album titled \"Speedin' Bullet 2 Heaven\". On October 27, 2015, Cudi announced the new album will be released on December 4, 2015. He also leaked two songs off the project, \"Wedding Tux\" and \"Judgemental Cunt\". In November 2015 Cudi announced a \"Especial Tour\", that will bring the rapper to various theaters all across the United States. On December 1, 2015, Cudi announced the cancellation of his \"Especial Tour\", due to various reasons, such as production and personal issues. To make up for postponing the concert tour, Cudi released the album's title-track as the second single.\n\nIn March 2016, Kid Cudi performed at McDowell Mountain Music Festival in Phoenix, Arizona. In an early April 2016 interview with \"Billboard\", when asked about \"Man on the Moon III\", Cudi responded with: \"I came up with \"Man on the Moon\" when I was a young man. People change their vibe! We can follow the same template and do the five-act split. Sonically, I’m still going to be where I’m at. Honestly, I was ready to live up to the obligation and do \"'Man on the Moon III\". I haven’t been dicking around. I was planning on doing it after \"Speedin' Bullet\". But the \"Speedin’ Bullet\" response tore me up. It made me realize what’s most important. I’m getting back on the bike again and doing what I do best: me.\" On April 22, 2016, Kid Cudi announced he would be releasing a new studio album, slated for a summer unveiling.\n\nOn May 11, 2016, amidst rumors that he was set to release \"Man on the Moon III\", Cudi revealed the title of his sixth solo album would be \"Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin'\", through online mobile video-sharing and social networking service Instagram. On June 1, 2016, Cudi announced that he has two upcoming albums. One set to be released in the summer, while the other would be released in the fall. He added that one of them is completed. On September 26, 2016, Kid Cudi unveiled the track-list for \"Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin\"' via Twitter, which revealed guest spots from Travis Scott, André 3000, Pharrell Williams and Willow Smith.\n\nAlthough there was a discrepancy between him and Kanye West, West later made an offer of peace and a song featuring him and Cudi subsequently surfaced online. \"Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin’\" was announced to be issued first via digital distribution on December 16, 2016, with the physical release on December 23. Cudi has also shared the song \"Baptized in Fire,\" which features Travis Scott (with whom Cudi collaborated extensively with on 2016's \"Birds in the Trap Sing McKnight\"). On March 1, 2017, Kid Cudi performed the song \"Kitchen\", with a string orchestra, live on \"The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon\".\n\nOn August 15, 2017, Cudi announced a national concert tour by the name of Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin' Tour; with the first date on September 30 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2018 Cudi and Kanye West formed a duo known as Kids See Ghosts, and produced an album with the same name, \"Kids See Ghosts\", which was released on June 8, 2018.\n\nOn October 23, 2018, in response to a fan on Twitter, Cudi revealed he had begun working on his seventh solo album. Although he said he would be taking his time to create his forthcoming LP, Cudi projected a 2019 release.\n\nIn 2010, Kid Cudi made a guest appearance on American television drama \"One Tree Hill\", starring as himself and performing his \"Man on the Moon II\" single \"Erase Me\", during the episode. In 2010, Kid Cudi also began starring in the HBO comedy series \"How to Make It in America\", as part of the main cast, being credited by his birth name Scott Mescudi, until its cancellation after two seasons. On October 31, 2010, Kid Cudi released a short film, directed by Shia LeBeouf, in which he and fellow American rapper Cage, star as French-speaking serial killers. The short film, titled \"Maniac\", was inspired by Cudi's song of the same name, from his 2010 album \"Man on the Moon II\" and is an homage to the 1992 Belgian black comedy crime mockumentary, \"Man Bites Dog\". In May 2012, Kanye West premiered a short film he directed, titled \"Cruel Summer,\" at the Cannes Film Festival. According to MTV, Kid Cudi is the lead character, playing a \"car thief who falls for a blind Arabian princess.\" The film was shown on seven different screens that turned on and off, giving various angles of each shot.\n\nIn October 2012, it was announced Cudi would star in an indie romantic comedy titled \"Two Night Stand\", alongside Analeigh Tipton and Miles Teller. Also in 2012, it was revealed Cudi would star in an indie thriller film titled \"Tacoma\", alongside Patricia Clarkson. In 2013, Cudi guest starred in the animated TV series \"The Cleveland Show\", voicing a character named Devon, in the Season 4 episode \"Brownsized\". In 2013, he also guest starred on the FOX comedy series \"Brooklyn Nine-Nine\", where he played a criminal named Dustin Whitman. In 2013, it was revealed Cudi would then star in \"Goodbye World\", alongside Adrian Grenier.\n\nIn January 2013, Cudi was cast in the film adaptation of \"Need for Speed\". \"Need for Speed\", which is Cudi's feature film debut, was released by Touchstone Pictures on March 14, 2014. In June 2013, it was revealed Cudi would appear in Mark Webber's film \"The Ever After\", alongside Teresa Palmer and Melissa Leo. On November 10, 2014, Cudi guest starred on the CBS American television series \"Scorpion\", as Peyton Temple, a musical prodigy who created a controversial algorithm that generates the perfect hit pop song, who later helps Scorpion investigate the murder of his friend who was a music industry blogger. In February 2014, it was announced Cudi would appear in \"Entourage\" (2015), the film adaptation of the popular HBO TV series of the same name.\n\nOn April 11, 2014, it was announced Cudi would star in a film titled \"James White\", alongside Christopher Abbott and Cynthia Nixon. In addition to starring in the film, it was revealed Cudi would also be curating the film's score as well. In January 2015, Cudi revealed he played a homosexual character in \"James White\": \"This was way different than anything else I've ever done. It was dope to do that. I felt like I had a responsibility to present a different walk in life from that world.\" Although his character's sexuality is not outwardly discussed during the film, the original script included a coming-out scene and a kiss between Cudi and a male friend, played by David Call: \"I didn't flinch. I'm secure with mine,\" Cudi told an audience after the film's premiere. \"I'm an artist—it's all about playing characters that are intriguing and stimulating.\"\n\nAlso in January 2015, Cudi revealed he had just finished filming a movie titled \"Vincent-N-Roxxy\", alongside Zoe Kravitz and Emile Hirsch. When speaking on \"Vincent-N-Roxxy\", Cudi said: \"this movie that I have coming out soon that’s my first villain role. It’s very violent and very disturbing […] I play kind of like a drug lord.\" On February 19, 2015, it was announced that Cudi would be taking over the mic duties for Reggie Watts, on IFC's television series, \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\". Cudi's first episode as Scott Aukerman's co-host, aired July 10, 2015. As the in-house disc jockey, Cudi crafted original music for the show and appeared in several skits throughout season four. The December 10 Christmas edition of \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\", marked the season finale and Cudi's final episode as bandleader.\n\nIn July 2016, it was announced Cudi would join the cast of FOX's \"Empire\", debuting in the third season of the series as \"an independent musician who is a rival to Hakeem (Bryshere \"Yazz\" Gray) both in the studio and in life.\" Cudi would later exit the role due to creative differences.\n\nKid Cudi's musical style has been described as \"an atmospheric take on melodic rap, with a dollop of charming, off-key singing\". He has also been called \"introspective, with the ability to lay his insecurities on record and expose his fallibility.\" In 2015, Kris Ex of \"Billboard\", wrote \"he's always been an emotional artist, dealing with expansive and nebulous feelings in acute and often destructive ways.\" Kid Cudi's sound is what inspired and led Kanye West to create his cathartic \"808s & Heartbreak\" (2008), with West later stating that he and Cudi were \"the originators of the style, kinda like what Alexander McQueen is to fashion…. Everything else is just Zara and H&M.\" West also complimented Cudi by saying, \"His writing is just so pure and natural and important.\" In March 2014, Cudi talked about wanting to provide guidance for young listeners with his music: \"my mission statement since day one […] all I wanted to do was help kids not feel alone, and stop committing suicide.\"\n\nIn a 2013 article for \"The BoomBox\", the author wrote: \"On [\"A Kid Named Cudi\"], Cudi raps and croons over samples and interpolations of Gnarls Barkley, Paul Simon, Band of Horses, J Dilla, Nosaj Thing, N.E.R.D. and Outkast. He melded indie rock, electronica and dubstep seamlessly with hip-hop without pandering or reaching. Before Drake broke through with 2009’s \"So Far Gone\", rapping and singing over Swedish indie poppers Lykke Li and Peter Bjorn and John, Cudi tweaked with multi-genre covers and seamless transitions between singing and rapping.\" In a 2009 interview with HipHopDX, when speaking on his debut album Cudi stated: \"Well one thing I wanted to do was combine sounds that really bring out intense moods.\"\n\nKid Cudi's music has also been described as trip hop. Furthermore, he is known for harmonizing and humming in his music, which helps formulate his signature sound. On 2011's \"WZRD\" and 2015's \"Speedin' Bullet 2 Heaven\", Cudi incorporated the use of screamed vocals, and can be heard yodeling on his 2016 album \"Passion, Pain & Demon Slayin'\". Throughout the years he has also incorporated elements of psychedelia, R&B, electronica, synthpop and grunge, in his music.\n\nKid Cudi's earliest influences include alternative hip hop groups such as The Pharcyde, A Tribe Called Quest and Bone Thugs-n-Harmony. Cudi also cites rappers such as The Notorious B.I.G., Tupac, Jay Z, Snoop Dogg, Run-DMC, Kurtis Blow, LL Cool J, Salt-N-Pepa, Queen Latifah, Kid 'n Play, N.W.A., Naughty By Nature, Onyx and Public Enemy, as his hip hop influences while growing up. Cudi has also credited fellow Ohio native Camu Tao, as an influence. He has also been inspired by the sounds of The O'Jays, Ratatat, MGMT and The Postal Service. In 2010, he began experimenting with rock music; rock acts that inspired Cudi include the Electric Light Orchestra, Jimi Hendrix, Nirvana, the Pixies and Pink Floyd.\n\nKid Cudi has gone on to influence and inspire several artists himself, such as rappers Kanye West, Travis Scott, Kendrick Lamar, Schoolboy Q, Chance the Rapper, Childish Gambino, Logic, ASAP Rocky, ASAP Nast, Allan Kingdom, Raury, Key!, Kevin Abstract, and Jaden Smith, as well as singers Jhene Aiko, Lissie and Tinashe, among others. In a 2010 interview with \"Billboard\", Kanye West called Cudi his \"personal favorite artist in the world right now. His whole take on the game is just unfiltered, uncensored artistry.\" In a 2015 article titled \"KiD CuDi - A Forgotten Influence on Psychedelic Introspection in Hip-Hop\", the author wrote \"Cudi helped bring about a new era of electronic, psychedelic driven production. And his dark, drug-riddled approach to introspection has already taken hold in the up-and-comers in the hip-hop world.\"\n\nIn 2016, Kanye West called Cudi \"the most influential artist of the past 10 years\". West Coast hip hop duo Audio Push also praised Cudi in 2016, saying \"The thing I love about Cudi is he's unapologetically real. He birthed so much of, not even the new generation of artists, but a lot of [your] favorite artists wouldn't be [your] favorite artists if it wasn't for Cudi.\" In November 2016, Atlanta-based rapper OG Maco, who has cited Cudi as a major influence on several occasions, released an EP titled \"For Scott\", as a tribute to Kid Cudi. Publications such as HotNewHipHop, DJBooth and \"IBTimes\" have all noted Cudi's influence on contemporary hip hop, since his breakthrough in 2008.\n\nIn September 2009, Kid Cudi teamed up with Japanese clothing company BAPE, for a collaboration that saw Cudi's likeness featured on graphic T-shirts, with the Japanese label's mascot, Baby Milo. As of 2014, he has had five t-shirt collaborations with BAPE.\n\nIn February 2011, Kid Cudi announced a collaboration with Parisian brand, Surface to Air. In the fall of 2011, Kid Cudi released a leather jacket collection in collaboration with the fashion label. Taking cues from the modern biker jacket, the \"Thriller-inspired\" lineup offered two men's styles — the Fire Jacket V1 and the Champs Jacket V2 — each made from 100% genuine leather. A red stitch treatment was applied to the shoulders and inner arms of the otherwise black jackets. Lending itself to the important details, the collection features black heavy-duty gunmetal zippers and hardware, as well as tonal metal snap buttons. A variety of diagonal and vertical pockets live on the front exterior shell of the jackets and the interior is fully lined for added comfort. Kid Cudi can be seen wearing the jackets in music videos such as \"All of the Lights and \"Mr. Rager\".\n\nIn August 2014, Giuseppe Zanotti designed an exclusive sneaker inspired by Kid Cudi’s style. During one of Kid Cudi’s concerts, the designer was inspired by his great artistry, energy and vibes. They soon got in touch to share their personal vision of a sneaker embodying Kid Cudi’s style.\n\nIn January 2015, Coach, Inc. announced Kid Cudi as the new face of their brand, along with actress Chloë Grace Moretz, to front its Spring campaign.\n\nIn a January 2013 interview, Cudi revealed that he had stopped smoking marijuana two years earlier, both for the sake of his child and due to frustration with constantly being associated with the drug and stoner culture. In that same interview, Cudi said that while he believes in God, he considers himself spiritual but not religious.\n\nIn a March 2013 interview, Kid Cudi talked about how his initial sudden and unexpected fame drove him to alcohol and drugs: \nIn a 2013 interview, Cudi revealed he had suffered an addiction to anti-depressant medication, which had been prescribed to help him deal with an \"emotional breakdown\" following a failed relationship. In a 2014 interview, Cudi spoke on his struggles with depression and suicide throughout the years: \"I’ve dealt with suicide for the past five years. There wasn’t a week or a day that didn’t go by where I was just like, ‘You know, I wanna check out.’ I know what that feels like, I know it comes from loneliness, I know it comes from not having self-worth, not loving yourself.\"\n\nIn October 2016, Cudi revealed on his Facebook page that he had checked himself into rehabilitation for depression and suicidal urges.\n\nOn March 26, 2010, Cudi's daughter, Vada Wamwene Mescudi, was born. Throughout 2012, Cudi was in a quiet custody battle over his daughter. Reports surfaced that Cudi gave up custody after his child's mother accused him of being an absentee father, as well as having violent tendencies and a \"long history of consistent drug and alcohol abuse.\" These claims were disputed by Cudi and his attorney in a statement, which noted: \"Cudi did not give up custody but reached an amicable agreement with the mother; that 'both parents are fit and proper persons to have custody of their child,' as stated in the final custody judgment; results came back negative for drugs in a drug test voluntarily taken by Cudi; and that the court acknowledged Cudi attempted to establish a relationship and visit his child since her birth and \"voluntarily provided financial support, including child support, rent and other monthly payments, for his daughter since her birth until the time that a child support order was entered as part of the normal course of the case.\" Details of the official custody agreement remain private. Cudi has since purchased a property in Chicago to be close to his daughter.\n\nOn April 8, 2014, Didi Hirsch Mental Health Services announced that it would recognize mental health advocates Kid Cudi, Ronda Rousey and Natasha Tracy, during its annual Erasing the Stigma Leadership Awards on April 24, at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles. Committed to helping depressed and suicidal youth through the power of music, Cudi joined Didi Hirsch’s Erasing the Stigma Efforts as a Mental Health Ambassador.\n\nOn February 7, 2015, Kid Cudi partnered with TED to give a TED Talk at his former high school Shaker Heights, to help inspire the students with his story, for the school's independently organized \"TEDxSHHS\" conference.\n\nKid Cudi has also been a volunteer for Musicians on Call (MOC), a charity with the mission of bringing live and recorded music to the bedsides of patients in healthcare facilities. In December 2015, Cudi arranged a dance party for the teenage participants of the Children’s Hospital At Montefiore's (CHAM) B-N-Fit program, in the Bronx. Kid Cudi also hosted a group of young patients and their families from CHAM, at his sold-out Roseland Ballroom shows in April 2016.\n\nIn June 2016, 49 celebrities, including Kid Cudi, honored the 49 victims killed in the Orlando shooting in a video tribute.\n\nIn 2009, Cudi began dating entertainment attorney Jamie Baratta. They were in an on-again, off-again relationship, and were a prominent couple in the music industry. They ultimately broke up in 2012, but not before Cudi dedicated a song to her titled \"Teleport 2 Me, Jamie\", which he recorded as a member of the alternative rock duo, WZRD.\n\nStudio albums\n\nCollaborative albums\n\nHeadlining\n\nSupporting\n\n"}
{"id": "1672058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672058", "title": "Leif Newry Fitzroy Crozier", "text": "Leif Newry Fitzroy Crozier\n\nLeif Newry Fitzroy Crozier (11 June 1846 – 25 February 1901), commonly known as L.N.F. Crozier, was a Canadian militia officer and a superintendent of the North-West Mounted Police, now best remembered for his role in the North-West Rebellion of 1885, a resistance movement headed by Métis leader Louis Riel in what is now the modern province of Saskatchewan.\n\nCrozier was born in June 1846 in Ireland. After immigrating to Canada, he entered Royal Military College in Kingston, Ontario.\n\nHe served as a major in the military. He joined the NWMP in 1872. He was appointed an inspector of the NWMP in 1873. He saw first hand the hardships faced by the Native people as the buffalo disappeared. By 1884, he was the Superintendent of the North-West Mounted Police stationed in Fort Carlton. He warned Lieutenant-Governor Edgar Dewdney that government policies were creating unrest among the First Nations and Métis. Since he feared a repetition of the Red River Rebellion, he asked for reinforcements to be sent to the North-West.\nWanting to avoid conflict, he attempted to negotiate with Louis Riel but was unsuccessful leaving the situation in a stalemate. \n\nOn March 26, 1885, Crozier lead a group of approximately 100 mounted police and Prince Albert Volunteers from Fort Carlton and a seven-pounder gun to bring back provisions which were running low at Fort Carlton. These men were confronted by Gabriel Dumont and a superior force of Métis near Duck Lake, Saskatchewan; no shots were fired and the police returned to Fort Carlton. In the ensuing Battle of Duck Lake, the NWMP were routed by the Métis. The resistance that he had wanted to avoid earlier broke out.\nThe retreat of the government under heavy fire tarnished the reputation of the NWMP.\nCrozier's role in the remainder of the rebellion was minimal, and his force largely remained at its post in Battleford, Saskatchewan. His march on Duck Lake and into an ambush stalled his career with the NWMP. Nevertheless, he was on April 1 promoted to assistant commissioner of the NWMP, a post which he held until his retirement in 1886. In 1886, after the Prime Minister, Sir John A. Macdonald, appointed a civilian commissioner instead of himself, he resigned. He spent his later years in as a merchant and banker in Oklahoma Territory, dying of a heart attack in Cushing, Oklahoma Territory on 25 February 1901. His body was brought back to Belleville, Ontario, to be buried.\n\n"}
{"id": "2336613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2336613", "title": "List of Nigeriens", "text": "List of Nigeriens\n\nThis is a list of from Niger:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "855610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855610", "title": "Liu Di", "text": "Liu Di\n\nLiu Di (Traditional Chinese: 劉荻; Simplified Chinese: 刘荻; Pinyin: Liú Dí; born October 9, 1981), writing under the screen name \"Stainless Steel Rat\" (不锈钢老鼠), named after the assertive Harry Harrison science fiction character, became a symbol for democracy and free speech in China since her detention in November 2002. Her screen-name is often translated as Stainless Steel Mouse.\n\nLiu Di graduated as a psychology major from Beijing Normal University.\n\nLiu's case comes during a crackdown on Internet content—from politics to pornography—and as the government struggles to gain control over a new and popular medium.\n\nThe reasons for Liu's detention were satirizing the CCP online and calling for the release of other \"cyber-dissidents.\"\n\nShe was freed from Beijing's Qincheng prison on Friday, November 28, 2003. Two other \"cyber-dissidents\", Wu Yiran, and Li Yibin, were also freed from a jail for political detainees.\n\n"}
{"id": "25393997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25393997", "title": "Louisa Motha", "text": "Louisa Motha\n\nLouisa Motha is the co-ordinator of the Abahlali baseMjondolo movement. She lives in the Motala Heights shack settlement in Pinetown near the city of Durban in South Africa\n\nShe is particularly well known for organising against evictions and was a strong critic of the Slums Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "17129067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17129067", "title": "Lounes Laouzai", "text": "Lounes Laouzai\n\nLounes Laouzai (born 26 December 1989 in Tizi Ouzou) is an Algerian footballer who is currently playing for MC Saïda in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1.\n\nLaouzai signed with MC Alger from JS Bordj Ménaïel in the summer of 2007. In 2009, he joined MFK Topvar Topoľčany in the Slovak Second League. In 2010, he returned to Algeria and signed with MC Saïda.\n"}
{"id": "50919690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50919690", "title": "Luke Kunin", "text": "Luke Kunin\n\nLuke Kunin (born December 4, 1997) is an American professional ice hockey center, currently playing with the Iowa Wild in the American Hockey League (AHL) as a prospect to the Minnesota Wild of the National Hockey League (NHL). Kunin was selected 15th overall by the Wild in the 2016 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nKunin is the son of Sheri and Mark Kunin, and has an older brother Nick. His paternal grandmother was Sandy Spevack Kunin, who was the daughter of George and Bernice Spevack. He was born in Chesterfield, Missouri, and is Jewish.\n\nIn grade 6, Kunin was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. His friend and, then, teammate Matthew Tkachuk arranged for Kunin to meet with St. Louis Blues player B. J. Crombeen who also had type 1 diabetes. He went to Whitfield School in Missouri for one year and then spent time with the U.S National Team Development Program in Ann Arbor, Michigan. He graduated from high school in three years.\n\nIn the 2015–16 season, his freshman year with the Wisconsin Badgers, he was the second-youngest player in college hockey. Kunin scored 19 goals (third-most among NCAA freshmen) and 32 points in 34 games and was named to the Big Ten Conference All-Rookie Team.\n\nIn the 2016–17 season, Kunin was elected as the Wisconsin team captain, becoming only the second sophomore captain in teams history. The last sophomore to have had achieved this honor was Mike Eaves 40 years ago. He led the Badgers with 22 goals and 38 points in 35 games, good enough for Second Team All Big Ten.\n\nOn January 5, 2017, Kunin won a gold medal at the 2017 IIHF World Junior U20 Championship as Captain of Team USA in a 5-4 shootout win against Team Canada.\n\nAt the conclusion the 2016–17 season, Kunin ended his collegiate career by signing a three-year, entry-level contract with the Minnesota Wild on March 23, 2017. He was assigned to conclude the season with AHL affiliate, the Iowa Wild, on an amateur try-out deal.\n\nIn the 2017–18 season, on October 26, 2017, Kunin recorded his first goal against the New York Islanders in an eventual 6–4 win. He became the first player in team history to score their first career NHL goal shorthanded. However, on October 29 Kunin was sent back to the Iowa Wild, Minnesota's AHL affiliate. On January 4, 2018, Kunin was selected to represent the Wild at the 2018 AHL All-Star game. He became the fourth player in team history to be named an All Star, joining former Wild players Alex Tuch, Mathew Dumba, and Gustav Olofsson. Kunin was called up to the Wild on February 28, 2018, however he received a season ending injury, a torn ACL, in a game against the Detroit Red Wings on March 4, 2018. He underwent surgery for his ACL a month later and was given a 6–7 month recovery time.\n\nIn 2013-14 he won the U.S. National Team World Under-17 Hockey Challenge Gold Medal, and in 2014-15 he won the U.S. National Team WJC IIHF World Under-18 Championship Gold Medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "24767201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24767201", "title": "Malabo Lopelo Melaka", "text": "Malabo Lopelo Melaka\n\nMalabo Löpèlo Mëlaka or King Malabo I (1837–1937), born on the island of Fernando Po (today Bioko, Equatorial Guinea), was the son of former Bubi king Moka and served as king between 1904 until his death in 1937, during the Bahítáari Dynasty. One of his three sons, Francisco Malabo Beosá (1896–2001) was a successor to the royal throne as well as the final heir to the Bubi Kingdom.\n\nPrior to his reign, King Malabo I served as the secretary to Sas-Ebuera from 1899 until 1904. When King Esáasi Eweera (also known as King Sás-Ebuera) was arrested by Spanish authorities and detained in 1903 for one year. King Malabo I, along with his brother, Lopelo Malabo Bioko, lost faith that an anti-colonial front against the reigning Spanish authority would come into fruition.\n\nDespite not having full political influence, King Malabo I symbolically served as the King of Bioko Island during his reign. His administration conducted bureaucratic gestures such as thanking Francisco Alimama Kashu, a native of Hyderabad, India, for his collaborating with local farms in improving farming techniques by giving him a plot of land in the village of Moka. Alimama Kashu eventually settled in Moka and married into the Malabo family.\n\nDuring his reign the government of Spanish Guinea received complete cooperation of the Bubi people, often using violent colonial methods to gain favorable results.\n\nThe last anti-colonial uprising took place in 1910 at San Carlos, after the assassination of a European by the name of Leon Rabadan and two Indian policemen. The confrontation resulted in the death of fifteen thousand ethnic Bubi. Immediately after the insurrection, the colonial forces pressured King Malabo I to convince Bubi clan leaders to cease further retaliation. The colonial leaders only addressed the most resistant of the local leaders, such as Chief Riokalo.\n\nWith the death of King Malabo I in 1937, who died in prison while serving a life sentence for killing Spanish colonial authorities on April 19 of the same year, the political influence of the Bubi administration as well as the traditional role of the tribal king dissipated. The Bahítáari Dynasty ended with the death of King Malabo I's son, Francisco, in 2001.\n\nAt the end of the 1970s and under the toponymic Africanization policy of the new Equatorial Guinean government, the capital city of Bioko Island, formerly known as the British Port Clarence and the Spanish Santa Isabel, was renamed in honor of King Malabo I. In the early 1980s the Rey Malabo National Institute, formerly called Cardinal Cisneros, followed suit renaming their organization in honor of the king. Furthermore, many streets in several countries around the world have also been named in honor of King Malabo I.\n\n"}
{"id": "5176760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5176760", "title": "Malusha", "text": "Malusha\n\nMalusha Malkovna (Old Ruthenian: Малушa) was allegedly a servant (kholopka) for Olga of Kiev and wife of Sviatoslav I of Kiev. According to Slavonic chronicles, she was the mother of Vladimir the Great and sister of Dobrynya. The Norse sagas describe Vladimir's mother as a prophetess who lived to the age of 100 and was brought from her cave to the palace to predict the future. Malusha monuments in Korosten, Ukraine, with her young son Vladimir.\n\nAs the chronicles are silent on the subject of Malusha's pedigree, 19th-century Russian and Ukrainian historians devised various theories to explain her parentage and name.\n\nMalusha Malkovna is said to be the daughter of Malk of Lyubech, prince of the Drevlians. The same one that wanted to marry Olga of Kiev after she became a widow. Primary Chronicle records that a certain Malusha died in 1000. This record follows that of Rogneda's death. Since Rogneda was Vladimir's wife, historians assume that Malusha was another close relative of the ruling prince, preferably his wife or mother.\n\nThe anti-Normanist historian Dmitry Ilovaisky managed to draw an opposite conclusion: that the Slavic name Malusha was turned into a Scandinavian Malfried. This claim received no wider support.\n"}
{"id": "15122137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15122137", "title": "Marcus (Manichean)", "text": "Marcus (Manichean)\n\nMarcus was an influential Manichaean missionary in Spain in the fourth Century AD.\n"}
{"id": "31830942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31830942", "title": "Mathew Caldwell", "text": "Mathew Caldwell\n\nMatthew Caldwell, (March 8, 1798 – December 28, 1842), also spelled Mathew Caldwell was a 19th-century Texas settler, military figure, Captain of the Gonzales – Seguin Rangers and a signer of the Texas Declaration of Independence. Because of his recruitment ride ahead of the Battle of Gonzales, some have called him the Paul Revere of Texas.\n\nMatthew Caldwell, nicknamed \"Old Paint\", was born in Kentucky on March 8, 1798. He moved to Missouri with his family in 1818, where he traded, fought and learned the ways of the Indians. He, his wife, and family arrived in Texas in the Green DeWitt Colony on February 20, 1831. On June 22, 1831, he received the title to a parcel of land near the Zumwalt Settlement, southwest of current Hallettsville, Texas. Settling in Gonzales, Caldwell acquired the original James Hinds residence on Water Street and soon became a person of notoriety, involved in security and command of minutemen rangers in Gonzales and the surrounding areas.\n\nActively recruiting before the battle of Gonzales in October 1835, he rode from Gonzales to Mina informing colonists of the dire need of their support in the volunteer army. Because of this, some have called him the Paul Revere of Texas. As a participant at the battle, he would serve as a scout and mediator. On Nov. 3, 1835, the delegates of the citizens of Texas established the provisional Texas government by the Consultation of 1835. The Consultation authorized the recruitment of 25 Rangers and later was increased to three companies of 56 men each. Caldwell was appointed a subcontractor to the Texian Army by the Provisional Government of Texas, to supply and administer a volunteer army at the siege of Bexar and the Alamo.\n\nOn 1 February 1836, he and John Fisher were elected delegates from Gonzales to the Texas Independence Convention of 1836 at Washington on the Brazos and both were signers of the Texas Declaration of Independence, on March 2. The convention appointed a committee of three, of which Caldwell was a member, to assess the situation of the enemy on the frontier and the condition of the Texian army. They then dispatched couriers with the message of independence and Caldwell went along with them, paying close attention to the state of the new republic as they passed through numerous settlements.\n\nOn February 4, 1836, Matthew Caldwell was named along with Byrd Lockhart and William A. Matthews as commissioners to raise a group of volunteers for a Gonzales Ranging Company. The company was mustered by March 23, 1836. The muster list of 23 rangers is shown here.\n\nOfficers\nCapt. Byrd Lockhart,\nLt. George C. Kimble,\nFirst Sergeant William A. Irvin\n\nPrivates\nJohn Ballard, John Davis, Andrew Duvalt, Jacob Darst, Frederick C. Elm, Galba Fuqua, William Fishbaugh, John Harris, Andrew J. Kent, David B. Kent, John G. King, Daniel McCoy, Jesse McCoy, Prospect McCoy, Isaac Millsaps, William Morrison, James Nash, Marcus L. Sewell, William Summers, Robert White\n\nWhen the call for immediate reinforcements came from Lt. Col. William B. Travis by way of courier Captain Albert Martin on February 25, Lt. George C. Kimble responded on the 27th with 12 of the original rangers mustered and 20 more men joined as they worked their way to the Alamo.\n\nThe Gonzales Ranging Company of Mounted Volunteers company primarily consisted of family men from Gonzales and DeWitt's Colony, who had gathered when the call for support was issued. After receiving Travis's \"To the People of Texas and All Americans in the World\" appeal on February 25, the Gonzales Rangers would leave the town of Gonzales on the evening of Saturday, February 27, led by commanding officer Lieutenant George C. Kimble and Captain Albert Martin, who had been the Alamo courier to deliver Travis's appeal at Gonzales. Of the 23 original members who were mustered into the Gonzales Ranger Company on the 23rd, a total of 12 are thought to have entered the Alamo with the final Relief Force on March 1 and all but one died there. Lockhart, Sowell, John William Smith and others would accompany the 32 Rangers into the Alamo and later depart, at night, as other couriers left.\n\nAccording to one account, a group of 25 men left Gonzales at two in the evening on the 27th. As they passed through Green Dewitt's Colony toward the Umphries Branch community and on to the Cibolo Creek, the company would gain 8 more members, increasing the company to 32 men. The youngest member of the Alamo defenders, William Philip King, only 16 years old, would become a part of this group. Due to family illness, he had substituted in his father's place. On the 29th, the group searched to find a way into the Alamo and through the Mexican lines. Then at three o'clock, in the early hours of March 1, they made a wild dash into the fort while being shot at by Alamo sentries. One man was slightly wounded and after a few rash words, the Alamo gates flew open for the Gonzales force to enter.\n\nThe list of the 32 immortals are:\nIsaac G. Baker,\nJohn Cain,\nGeorge Washington Cottle,\nDavid P. Cummings,\nJacob Darst,\nJohn Davis,\nSquire Daymon (Damon),\nWilliam Dearduff,\nCharles Despallier,\nWilliam Fishbaugh,\nJohn Flanders,\nDolphin Ward Floyd,\nGalba Fuqua,\nJohn E. Garvin,\nJohn E. Gaston,\nJames George,\nThomas J. Jackson,\nJohn Benjamin Kellogg II,\nAndrew Kent,\nGeorge C. Kimble,\nWilliam Philip King,\nJonathan L. Lindley,\nAlbert Martin ,\nJesse McCoy,\nThomas R. Miller,\nIsaac Millsaps,\nGeorge Neggan,\nMarcus L. Sewell,\nWilliam Summers,\nGeorge Washington Tumlinson,\nRobert White,\nClaiborne Wright.\n\nAlthough knowing their chance of survival was slim, the Gonzales Rangers remained in the Alamo, serving as possibly the only reinforcements to make it into the Alamo during the siege. The 1836 Gonzales Ranging Company of Mounted Volunteers would all perish in the battle of the Alamo. For their heroic effort to support the besieged and outnumbered Texians, they are remembered as the \"Immortal 32\".\n\nIn the fall of 1837, after the revolution, settlers began returning to Gonzales. Nothing remained of the former town but one charred building. The Comanche had reestablished their claim to the area. Caldwell would serve as the first law officer or Sheriff of Gonzales (Guadalupe, Dewitt, Caldwell, Lavaca) County.\n\nCity Founders\n\nIn 1838, he and his fellow rangers founded the town of Walnut Branch, a sparsely populated area in northwest Gonzales County. The area was well favored and had been a frequented DeWitt ranger campground years before the revolution.\n\n1838 frontier rangers\n\nCaldwell formed a frontier ranger company of 29 men. Charles Lockhart became First Lieutenant and Robert Hall joined as his Second Lieutenant. They built a log fort to provide security for the residents and only mustered for a real crisis. In October that year, Indians raided the town and stole two young women and some children, The rangers pursued the group, but could not catch them. They were able to make allies of friendly Indians and valued their support.\n\nFrontier defender\n\nRumors of a Mexican retaliation soon flourished and Texas President Mirabeau B. Lamar would appoint Caldwell, on January 15, 1839, as a captain, to recruit a company of Gonzales Rangers, to defend the Texas frontier. Two months later he had raised his company of rangers and on March 23, 1839, Caldwell became captain of a company in the First Regiment of Infantry of Texas. On March 29, 1839, a company of 80 men commanded by General Edward Burleson had defeated Vicente Córdova and his rebels during a fight near Seguin, Texas, at \"Battleground Prairie\". Córdova survived, but was pursued by Caldwell's Rangers, Seguin militia and then joined by members of the Henry Karnes company, insuring his departure from Texas.\n\nCaldwells Gonzales & Seguin Rangers 1839\n\nDuring this time, 1st Lt. James Campbell would be stationed at the Seguin outpost with half of the Caldwell Rangers, providing protection for the new town and others stationed close to Gonzales.\nThe officers of the Rangers were:\nCaptain Matthew Caldwell,\n1st Lt. James Campbell,\n2nd Lt. Canah C. Colley,\n1st Sergt. George D. Miller,\n2nd Sergt. John R. King,\n3rd Sergt. William N. Henry,\n4th Sergt. John Archer.\nThe privates were:\nM. L. Baber,\nSeth Baldridge,\nNathan Burgett,\nCurtis Caldwell,\nWilliam Clinton,\nJames M. Day,\nMiles G. Dikes,\nA. S. Emmitt,\nJames Forrester,\nDaniel Gray,\nJohn B. Gray,\nThomas Grubbs,\nFrederick W. Happle,\nEverett H. Harris,\nVaughter Henderson,\nDavid Henson,\nJohn S. Hodges,\nMaury Irvin,\nE. R. Jones,\nWilliam H. Killin,\nHenry B. King,\nHenry Eustace McCulloch,\nT. N. Minter,\nG. H. Nichols,\nGeorge W. Nichols,\nJames W. Nichols,\nJohn W. Nichols,\nSol. G. Nichols,\nThomas R. Nichols,\nWilliam S. Osbourne,\nJames Pinchback,\nD. M. Poore,\nWilliam Putman,\nDavid Reynolds,\nAbram Roberts,\nAlexander Roberts,\nJames B. Roberts,\nJeremiah Roberts,\nRussell, D. W.\nRussell, John H.\nEzekiel Smith,\nFrench Smith,\nWilliam Smith,\nA. J. Sowell,\nAsa J. L. Sowell,\nJ. N. Sowell,\nJohn S. Stump,\nJames A. Swift,\nT. W. Symonds,\nNathan Wadkins,\nIsaac Wallace,\nJohn D. Wolfin\n\n1840s defense and imprisonment\n\nIndian attacks continued to plague the new Republic and in March Caldwell participated in a meeting to trade captives with the Comanches. However, the meeting turned violent and the Council House Fight erupted, where he was wounded. He had recovered in time to lead a company at the battle of Plum Creek on August 12, 1840.\n\nAs captain of Company D of the scouting force in the Texan Santa Fe Expedition in 1841, he was captured with other members and imprisoned in Mexico. He was soon released and headed to San Antonio to confront the invading Mexican forces there.\n\nOn September 18, 1842, Caldwell commanded a force of 200 men from Gonzales, Seguin, San Antonio and other near settlements, confronting and defeating General Adrián Woll, at the battle of Salado Creek.\n\nIn 1826 when Mathew was 28, he first married Martha A and had 3 children. Martha died abt 1833 in Gonzales, TX.\n\nTheir 3 children:\n\nOn May 17, 1837, when Mathew was 39, he married Hannah Morrison in Washington County, Texas.\n\nMatthew Caldwell died at his home in Gonzales on December 28, 1842, and was buried with honors as a military hero.\n\nCaldwell County, Texas was established in 1848 and named in his honor. In 1930, he was honored by the state of Texas, when a monument was placed at his grave site at Gonzales. The 1936 Texas Hall of State Building, in Dallas, commemorates Caldwell's past on the exterior historical figure frieze.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17371312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17371312", "title": "Mirka Vasiljević", "text": "Mirka Vasiljević\n\nMirka Vasiljević (Serbian Cyrillic: Мирка Васиљевић; born 27 September 1990) is a Serbian actress and occasional model and television presenter. She rose to domestic fame with 2005 film \"We Are Not Angels 2\", the sequel to 1992 cult film \"We Are Not Angels\". Vasiljević has since established a career as one of the most eminent young actors in Serbia. In 2005, she earned a Rose d'Or Award for Best Television Actress nomination for her work on \"Love, Habit, Panic\".\n\nSince 2009, Vasiljević has dated footballer Vujadin Savić, the son of legendary Serbian footballer Dušan Savić. In 2011, it was revealed the couple was expecting a baby, later confirmed to be a boy. After that they got one more son and daughter. They are not still married, but recently Vujadin announced they would get married, probably in 2018.\n\nVasiljević took intensive ballet lessons to prepare herself for the role in television series \"TNW: Totally New Wave\".\n"}
{"id": "53130735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53130735", "title": "Panos M. Pardalos", "text": "Panos M. Pardalos\n\nPanos M. Pardalos is a Greek scientist and engineer, currently a Distinguished Professor and the Paul and Heidi Brown Preeminent Professor in Industrial and Systems Engineering at the University of Florida.\n"}
{"id": "18995600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18995600", "title": "Randolph George", "text": "Randolph George\n\nThe Right Reverend Randolph Oswald George (died 18 July 2016) was the Bishop of Guyana from 1980 until 2009. Born in 1924 and educated at Codrington College, Barbados, after a curacy at \"St Peter Barbados\" he spent a decade in England. Successively he was Curate at Leigh, Ardwick and Lavender Hill before returning to become Chaplain to the Bishop of Trinidad. From there he became Rector of Couva then \"All Saints, Port of Spain\" before being elected to the Deanery of the Anglican Diocese of Guyana in 1971. Promoted to be the Suffragan Bishop of \"Stabroek\" in 1976, four years later he became Bishop -a position he held until 2009.\n\nGeorge died on 18 July 2016 at the age of 92.\n"}
{"id": "1289948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289948", "title": "Randy California", "text": "Randy California\n\nRandy Craig Wolfe (February 20, 1951 – January 2, 1997), known as Randy California, was a guitarist, singer and songwriter and one of the original members of the rock group Spirit, formed in 1967.\n\nCalifornia was born into a musical Jewish family in Los Angeles and spent his early years studying varied styles at the family's Los Angeles folk club, the Ash Grove. His uncle, Ed Pearl, was the founder of the Ash Grove. He was 15 years old when his mother Bernice Pearl and new stepfather, Ed Cassidy (later to become a founding member of the band Spirit, with Randy), moved to New York City in the summer of 1966 because Cassidy had a number of jazz gigs lined up. It was there, at Manny's Music, that Randy met Jimi Hendrix. He played in Hendrix's band Jimmy James and the Blue Flames that summer. California, Cassidy and Pearl lived in an apartment building in Forest Hills (Queens), New York called the Balfour, whose other residents included future Steely Dan co-founder Walter Becker, who cited California's blues-based guitar style as an influence on his own playing.\n\nThe stage name \"Randy California\" was given to him by Hendrix to distinguish him from another Randy in the band, Randy Palmer, whom Hendrix dubbed \"Randy Texas\". When Hendrix and California were invited to come to England by Chas Chandler, former bassist of British Invasion band the Animals—who became Hendrix's manager and producer—Randy's parents refused to allow him to go, insisting the 15-year-old stay and finish high school. By some accounts, Chandler wanted Hendrix as the only guitarist for the band and nixed California's going to England.\n\nTogether with Cassidy, songwriter/front-man Jay Ferguson, bassist Mark Andes (with whom California and Cassidy had initially formed a band called the Red Roosters) and keyboardist John Locke, California founded the band Spirit.\n\nTheir first, self-titled, album was released in January 1968, a month before California's 17th birthday. He then wrote the band's biggest hit, 1968's \"I Got a Line on You\" for Spirit's second album, \"The Family That Plays Together\". He also wrote the single \"1984\", released in early 1970 and banned from most AM radio stations at that time. He also penned Spirit's other hit, \"Nature's Way\", for the band's best-selling album, \"Twelve Dreams of Dr. Sardonicus\". Christopher Cross covered \"Nature's Way\" on his 1994 album \"Windows.\"\n\nIn writing Led Zeppelin's \"Stairway to Heaven\", Jimmy Page may have been reworking California's guitar riff from \"Taurus\", an instrumental song from the first Spirit album. Led Zeppelin was on the same bill as Spirit on two American music festival dates in 1969. In the liner notes for the 1996 reissue of Spirit's first album, California stated: \"people always ask me why 'Stairway to Heaven' sounds exactly like 'Taurus,' which was released two years earlier. I know Led Zeppelin also played 'Fresh Garbage' in their live set. They opened up for us on their first American tour\". The fact that \"Fresh Garbage\" was a track from the same album that includes the song \"Taurus\" further fueled the belief that Led Zeppelin was at least aware of the song. In 2014, a copyright infringement and injunction lawsuit against the reissue of \"Led Zeppelin IV\" started with the lawyer saying, \"The idea behind this is to make sure that Randy California is given a writing credit on Stairway to Heaven.\" In Led Zeppelin's January 1969 appearance at the Fiillmore West, Jimmy Page breaks into an instrumental jam which clearly includes the Spirit song \"Fresh Garbage.\"\n\nIn June 2016, after a trial that included audio recordings of several versions of both songs but not the Spirit and Led Zeppelin recordings, and also featured testimony from Page and bandmate Robert Plant explaining the songwriting process for \"Stairway,\" a jury ruled that Page and Plant had not copied \"Taurus.\" The decision came under appeal because the judge did not permit the two sound recordings to be played and instead allowed only sheet music. Copyright law had been expanded to include sound recordings in 1974. In September 2018, this decision was overturned. A new trial was unanimously ordered by a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco on the basis that U.S. District Judge R. Gary Klausner gave jurors erroneous information about copyright law. \n\nSpirit was invited to open for Jimi Hendrix at Woodstock. However, band manager/producer Lou Adler—who had been one of the founders of the rock festival movement two years earlier, as a partner (with Mamas & Papas lynchpin John Phillips) in the Monterey Pop Festival, where Hendrix premiered in the U.S.—opposed it because the band was busy promoting their latest album, \"Clear\".\n\nWhen Ferguson and Andes left Spirit to form Jo Jo Gunne due to the slow sales of \"Sardonicus\", and then his dear friend Hendrix died, a depressed California left Spirit. He recorded \"Kapt. Kopter & The Fabulous Twirly Birds\", which included California and Cassidy's version of Paul Simon's \"Mother and Child Reunion\" plus a slew of authentically Hendrix-like tracks (also featuring former Experience bassist Noel Redding, AKA 'Clit McTorius'). In 1972 the album was released at virtually the same moment as Jo Jo Gunne's first, eponymous album that featured \"Run, Run Run\" and a Spirit album called \"Feedback\" that was recorded by Cassidy and Locke (who were Spirit's jazz influences) and guitarist/bassist brother duo Al and John Staehely, who wrote and sang most of the material on the LP.\n\nCalifornia's second solo album, \"Euro-American\", was released in 1982 by Beggar's Banquet featuring a line up including British Drummer Preston Heyman and he headed the bill with Heyman at 1982 Glastonbury Festival, much of the footage from which can be found on YouTube, including a performance of the Bob Dylan classic song \"Like a Rolling Stone\". At this concert the power generator failed, it was said because the operator had fallen asleep stoned and neglected to refill the fuel - forcing Drummer Preston Heyman to perform a 20-minute un-amplified solo with the audience accompanying banging beer cans and chanting while the situation was rectified. He would release two more solo albums during the decade.\n\nIn December 1982, the original Spirit line-up re-formed and recorded several songs from their first four albums (as well as a few new tracks) live on a soundstage. Though the album Spirit of '84 was initially recorded for an audiophile label, Mercury Records re-signed the band (and gave California a solo deal) and released the album in 1984. The album was only a moderate success. Some of the original members went to do other projects, but California and Cassidy continued touring with new members Scott Monahan on keyboards and Dave Waterbury on bass.\n\nCalifornia headed to England and recorded his third solo album, the contemporary hard rock \"Restless\" for which his friend British Drummer Preston Heyman (who played on the track \"Jack Rabbit\") secured a deal with Phonogram for in late 1985. Following a few live dates in England, California returned to the United States and resumed touring extensively with Cassidy, Monahan, and Waterbury. There was one more solo album from California: a collection of material entitled \"Shattered Dreams\" that was released in 1986.\n\nCalifornia drowned in the Pacific Ocean in 1997 at the age of 45 while rescuing his 12-year-old son Quinn from a rip current near the home of his mother, Bernice Pearl, at Molokai, Hawaii. He managed to push Quinn (who survived) toward the shore.\n\nThe Randy Craig Wolfe Trust was established after his death and, using royalties from California's recording contracts, financially supports the Randy California Project, an after-school music education program for underprivileged elementary school children in Ventura County.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14892127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14892127", "title": "Robby Wells", "text": "Robby Wells\n\nRobert Carr \"Robby\" Wells Jr. (born April 10, 1968) is an American politician and former college football coach. He was the head football coach at Savannah State University in Savannah, Georgia for the 2008 and 2009 seasons.\n\nWells unsuccessfully sought the Constitution Party's nomination for President of the United States in the 2012 presidential election. He ran as an independent in the 2016 presidential election.\n\nWells played football at Furman University, playing fullback and wide receiver. He was a member of the 1988 NCAA Division I-AA national championship team.\n\nWells coached football from 1990 to 2009. He began his career as an assistant coach at Greer (S.C.) High School (1990–1995). He served as head coach at C.E. Murray High School Greeleyville, SC (1995–1997).\n\nHe moved to the University of South Carolina as a graduate assistant for four seasons. Wells worked with the defensive backs (1998-1999) and middle linebackers (2000). Wells was fired by Head Football Coach Lou Holtz for meeting with Clemson Assistant Coach Brad Scott. It was alleged that Wells shared the Gamecock playbook with Scott. Wells moved on to become the defensive coordinator at South Carolina State University in 2002. As the Bulldog's defensive coordinator (2002–2005) Wells' defense attained numerous national rankings and a Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference championship (2004).\n\nIn 2006, Wells was hired as the General Manager for the Augusta Spartans Arena Football Team where his duties included coaching, player personnel decisions, player development, team travel, fund raising and media relations.\n\nWells' final position before joining Savannah State was as the defensive coordinator and football marketing director for one season at Benedict College in Columbia, South Carolina.\n\nWells was hired as head football coach on . In his first season as head coach, the team saw as many victories as the previous four seasons combined. Wells resigned his position on January 28, 2010 citing personal reasons. He subsequently filed a lawsuit against SSU for reverse discrimination, alleging that his resignation as head coach was forced. The lawsuit was settled in November 2011.\n\nOn November 21, 2011, Wells announced his candidacy for President of the United States in the 2012 general election. He initially stated that he would run as an independent, saying \"Our party system is broken. We need a third option\". In December, he became a candidate for the presidential nomination of the Reform Party. In January 2012, Wells withdrew his bid for the Reform Party nomination and announced that he would instead seek the presidential nomination of the Constitution Party. At the Constitution Party National Convention, Wells received 58 of 402 votes (14.39%) for the party's presidential nomination, which was won on the first ballot by former U.S. Congressman Virgil Goode.\n\nWells announced on November 3, 2012 that he would run for President of the United States again in 2016 as an independent candidate. On July 17, 2013, he held a conference call to address a variety of accusations by his former campaign managers.\n\nOn September 24, 2013, Wells announced that he would discontinue campaigning as an independent candidate and would instead seek the presidential nomination of the Democratic Party. On March 9, 2016, a press release on Wells' website claimed that Wells is no longer running as a Democrat, but as an independent once again.\n\nIt is important to note that Wells never attempted to get his name on the ballot in any state. \n\nWells holds both a master's degree in adult education from the University of South Carolina (2000) and a Bachelor's degree in health and physical education from Furman University (1990).\n\n"}
{"id": "17655776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17655776", "title": "Rodolfo Fierro", "text": "Rodolfo Fierro\n\nGeneral Rodolfo Fierro (1880 – 14 October 1915) was a railway worker, railway superintendent, federal soldier and a major general in the army of Pancho Villa during the Mexican Revolution in the . Fierro and his counterpart and fellow lieutenant, Tomas Urbina, have been cited as the two halves of Pancho Villa, Fierro representing his malicious side. It is believed Fierro met Pancho Villa in 1913 following the Madero revolution. Originating from Sinaloa, Fierro was a former federal officer having taken part in fighting against the Yaqui Indians. Following his role as a federal officer, Fierro went on to work as a railway man, eventually being absorbed into Villa's ranks.\n\nFierro's prominence is often cited back to the Battle of Tierra Blanca on 23 November 1913. The battle included 5,500 of Villa's soldiers, against an estimated 7,000 federal soldiers. Before the battle began Fierro had been sent South to destroy the railroad tracks, forcing the federal soldiers to halt. As Villa flanked the well armed federal soldiers with cavalry, a locomotive filled with dynamite and percussion caps was rammed into the federal soldiers train cars, the resulting explosion caused the federal soldiers to flee to nearby undamaged train cars in retreat. Fierro is then noted as riding on horseback after the escaping locomotive, climbing on to the locomotive, running across the roofs of the train cars, and shooting dead the boilerman and conductor, pulling the train to a complete stop. All federal soldiers captured were executed and in the battle Villa captured 4 locomotives, 7 machine guns, horses, rifles and 400,000 rounds of small arms ammunition. The death toll during the battle stood around 1,000 federal soldiers killed and 300 of Villa's.\n\nFierro is most known as Villa's executioner, known as (). A 1930 novel \"El águila y la serpiente\" by Martín Luis Guzmán gives Fierro his nom de guerre. Guzmán describes events following the capture of over 300 Orozquistas soldiers, followers of Pascual Orozco. The captured soldiers were led into a large field with Fierro on one end, and a wall on the other. They were informed, if they were to reach the opposite end and climb over the wall they would be allowed to continue on free. In groups of ten the captured men were set out to run, Fierro alone firing his pistol at them as they ran, his soldiers handing him fresh pistols to continue firing without delay. One captive is noted as making it over the wall and to freedom, only after Fierro stopped to massage an achy trigger finger.The shooting went on for two hours. \nAnother account recounts that Fierro would ask each prisoner if they would rather return to their family, or join the army of Pancho Villa. Those deciding to return to their family were seen as men who would head back to their old regiment and were executed. Those choosing to join Pancho Villa were provided with a horse, a gun, and three bullets.\n\nOther stories exist of Fierro shooting a man dead in public in the state of Chihuahua. The person, sitting across from Fierro, argued that a man shot would fall backwards, Fierro disagreed. To settle the bet Fierro shot the man, and watched as he fell forward, confirming to Fierro that he was correct. A similar story is told by John Reed: outside the theater of Durango, a drunken man asked Fierro what time it was; Fierro said: \"You! How dare you speak to me before I speak to you first-\" and shot him dead.\n\nWhile working as Villa's railway superintendent, Fierro was publicly reprimanded by Villa for a train of supply water running 35 minutes late. Fierro, when the train arrived is said to have shot the conductor dead as an act of vengeance for his humiliation. This incident sparked strife amongst the railway workers, who primarily supported Villa. In another incident, a drunken Fierro killed a railway worker for bumping into him, this final incident caused Villa to act. Villa permitted a judge to begin collecting evidence against Fierro into his actions, a judge who begged to be removed from the case for fear of repercussion. The case never went to trial but Fierro was removed from the position of railway superintendent. It is often stated the case was a sham, simply to continue to retain support from the much needed railway workers.\n\nFierro is also known for the murder of William Benton on 17 February 1914, an Englishman and land owner in Mexico who had his land confiscated by Villa's forces. Numerous stories exist around what happened. Benton is cited as having stormed into Villa's headquarters in Ciudad Juárez, demanding his land back from Villa, in which Villa refused. Following his refusal, Villa maintains Benton unsuccessfully attempted to draw a six-shooter pistol, he was wrestled to the floor and given a formal court martial and found guilty of attempted assassination, he was then executed and buried. A conflicting story exists in which Benton drew his pistol but was detained and removed from the town at night. He was taken to the desert, where a hole was dug and Fierro is believed to have struck Benton in the head with a shovel, dumping him into the grave without checking to see if Benton was still alive.\n\nOn 15 January 1915, Villa turned over command of the western forces to Fierro and Calixto Contreras. The decision was made following the election of Roque González Garza by the Mexico City Convention. Fierro and Contreras were defeated following being put in command. In Guadalajara, Jalisco on 17 January 1915, Fierro's forces were surprised by an attack and forced to flee to Irapuato, Guanajuato. Villa was forced to pull troops from Mexico City to North West Mexico to assist Fierro and Contreras. With the larger number of forces, (11,000 soldiers strong), Villa was able to take Guadalajara without a fight, Villa pursued but was repelled, after sustaining heavy casualties, he ordered a withdrawal moving himself and a large force of soldiers from the area. Fierro was again in charge of the west, and on March 22, attacked a well dug-in force at Tuxpan, Veracruz. Fierro was again defeated, losing two thousand men and eight hundred horses, the loss forced him to abandon Guadalajara as well.\n\nOn 14 October 1915, Fierro died after being thrown from his horse and landing in quicksand. At the time, Fierro was marching toward Sonora when he encountered the quicksand at the Casas Grandes Lagoon. The weight of his belt, loaded with gold coins and material is said to have prevented him from being able to escape.\n\nIn the film \"Villa Rides\" (1968), Fierro was portrayed by Charles Bronson.\n\n\"The Friends of Pancho Villa\" (Berkeley: New York, 1996), a novel by James Carlos Blake. Fierro is the narrator of the novel. Fierro also appears in Blake's novel \"Under the Skin\" as the father of the novel's protagonist, Jimmy Youngblood.\n\n\"Les amis de Pancho Villa\" Léonard Chemineau and James Carlos Blake (Rivages Noir Casterman, 2012), a graphic novelization of James Carlos Blake's \"The Friends of Pancho Villa\".\n\n\"Tom Mix and Pancho Villa\", (St. Martin's Press, 1982) a novel by Clifford Irving. Fierro is depicted as Villa's evil right-hand-man.\n\n"}
{"id": "143102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=143102", "title": "Saint Anne", "text": "Saint Anne\n\nSaint Anne, of David's house and line, was the mother of Mary and grandmother of Jesus according to apocryphal Christian and Islamic tradition. Mary's mother is not named in the canonical gospels, but is mentioned as the daughter of Faqud in Quran. In writing, Anne's name and that of her husband Joachim come only from New Testament apocrypha, of which the Gospel of James (written perhaps around 150) seems to be the earliest that mentions them.\n\nThe story bears a similarity to that of the birth of Samuel, whose mother Hannah ( \"Ḥannāh\" \"favour, grace\"; etymologically the same name as Anne) had also been childless. Although Anne receives little attention in the Latin Church prior to the late 12th century,\ndedications to Anne in Eastern Christianity occur as early as the 6th century. In the Eastern Orthodox Churches and Eastern Catholic Churches, she is revered as Hannah. In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, Hannah is ascribed the title \"Forebear of God\", and both the Nativity of Mary and the Presentation of Mary are celebrated as two of the twelve Great Feasts of the Orthodox Church. The Dormition of Hannah is also a minor feast in Eastern Christianity. In Lutheran Protestantism, it is held that Martin Luther chose to enter religious life as an Augustinian friar after crying out to St. Anne while endangered by lightning.\n\nAnne (Arabic: حنة \"Ḥannah\") is also revered in Islam, recognised as a highly spiritual woman and as the mother of Mary. The Qur'an describes her as the daughter of Faqud who remained childless until her old age. One day, Hannah saw a bird feeding its young while sitting in the shade of a tree, which awakened her desire to have children of her own. She prayed for a child and eventually conceived; her husband, Imran, died before the child was born. Expecting the child to be male, Hannah vowed to dedicate him to isolation and service in the Second Temple.\n\nHowever, Hannah bore a daughter instead, and named her Mary. Her words upon delivering Mary reflect her status as a great mystic, realising that while she had wanted a son, this daughter was God's gift to her:\n\nAlthough the canonical books of the New Testament never mention the mother of the Virgin Mary, traditions about her family, childhood, education, and eventual betrothal to Joseph developed very early in the history of the church. The oldest and most influential source for these is the apocryphal \"Gospel of James\", first written in Greek around the middle of the second century. In the West, the \"Gospel of James\" fell under a cloud in the fourth and fifth centuries when it was accused of \"absurdities\" by Jerome and condemned as untrustworthy by Pope Damasus I, Pope Innocent I, and Pope Gelasius I.\n\nAncient belief, attested to by a sermon of John of Damascus, was that Anne married once. In late medieval times, legend held that Anne was married three times first to Joachim, then to Clopas and finally to a man named Solomas and that each marriage produced one daughter: Mary, mother of Jesus, Mary of Clopas, and Mary Salomæ, respectively. The sister of Saint Anne was Sobe, mother of Elizabeth.\n\nSimilarly, in the 4th century and then much later in the 15th century, a belief arose that Mary was born of Anne by virgin birth, preserving Anne's body and soul intact as distinct from the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception that preserved her daughter's body and soul intact and sinless from the first moment of existence. Adherents included the 16th-century Lutheran mystic Valentin Weigel, who claimed Anne conceived Mary by the power of the Holy Spirit rather than conventional conjugal relations. This belief was condemned as an error by the Catholic Church in 1677. In the fifteenth century, the Catholic cleric Johann Eck related in a sermon that St Anne's parents were named Stollanus and Emerentia. The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" (1907) regards this genealogy as spurious.\n\nIn the Eastern church, the cult of Anne herself may go back as far as c. 550, when Justinian built a church in Constantinople in her honor. \n\nThe earliest pictorial sign of her veneration in the West is an 8th-century fresco in the church of Santa Maria Antiqua, Rome. \n\nVirginia Nixon sees an economic incentive in the local promotion of the cult of St. Anne in order to attract pilgrims. The identification of Sepphoris as the birthplace of Mary may reflect competition with a similar site in Jerusalem.\nA shrine at Douai, in northern France, was one of the early centers of devotion to St. Anne in the West.\n\nTwo well-known shrines to St. Anne are that of Ste. Anne d'Auray in Brittany, France; and that of Ste. Anne de Beaupré near the city of Québec. The number of visitors to the Basilica of Ste. Anne de Beaupré is greatest on St Anne's Feast Day, 26 July, and the Sunday before Nativity of the Virgin Mary, 8 September. In 1892, Pope Leo XIII sent a relic of St Anne to the church.\n\nIn the Maltese language, the Milky Way galaxy is called \"It-Triq ta' Sant'Anna\", literally \"The Way of St. Anne\".\n\nIn Imperial Russia, the Order of St Anne was one of the leading state decorations.\n\nThe supposed relics of St. Anne were brought from the Holy Land to Constantinople in 710 and were kept there in the church of St. Sophia as late as 1333. \n\nDuring the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, returning crusaders and pilgrims from the East brought relics of Anne to a number of churches, including most famously those at Apt, in Provence, Ghent, and Chartres. St. Anne's relics have been traditionally preserved and venerated in the many cathedrals and monasteries dedicated to her name, for example in Austria, Canada, Germany, Italy, and Greece in Holy Mount and the city of Katerini. Medieval and baroque craftsmenship is evidenced in the striking metalwork of the life-size reliquaries containing the bones of her forearm for example. Examples employing folk art techniques are also known.\n\nDüren has been the main place of pilgrimage for Anne since 1506, when Pope Julius II decreed that her relics should be kept there.\n\nThe Church of Saint Anne in Beit Guvrin National Park was built by the Byzantines and the Crusaders in the 12th century, known in Arabic as Khirbet (lit. \"ruin\") Sandahanna, the mound of Maresha being called Tell Sandahanna.\nSaint Anne is patroness of unmarried women, housewives, women in labor or who want to be pregnant, grandmothers, educators and teachers. She is also a patroness of horseback riders, cabinet-makers and miners. As the mother of Mary, this devotion to Saint Anne as the patron of miners arises from the medieval comparison between Mary and Christ and the precious metals silver and gold. Anne's womb was considered the source from which these precious metals were mined. Saint Anne is also said to be a patron saint of sailors and a protector from storms.\n\nShe is also the patron saint of: Brittany (France), Chinandega (Nicaragua), the Mi'kmaq people of Canada, Castelbuono (Sicily), Quebec (Canada), Santa Ana (California), Norwich (Connecticut), Detroit (Michigan), Adjuntas (Puerto Rico), Santa Ana and Jucuarán (El Salvador), Berlin (New Hampshire), Santa Ana Pueblo, Seama, and Taos (New Mexico), Chiclana de la Frontera, Marsaskala, Tudela and Fasnia (Spain),Town of Sta Ana Province of Pampanga, Hagonoy, Santa Ana, Taguig City, Saint Anne Shrine, Malicboy, Pagbilao and Quezon (Philippines), Santana (Brazil), Saint Anne (Illinois), Sainte Anne Island, Baie Sainte Anne and Praslin Island (Seychelles), Bukit Mertajam and Port Klang (Malaysia), Kľúčové (Slovakia) and South Vietnam. The parish church of Vatican City is Sant'Anna dei Palafrenieri. There is a shrine dedicated to Saint Anne in the Woods in Bristol, United Kingdom.\n\nIn John Everett Millais's 1849–50 work, \"Christ in the House of His Parents\",\nAnne is shown in her son-in-law Joseph's carpentry shop caring for a young Jesus who had cut his hand on a nail. She joins her daughter Mary, Joseph, and a young boy who will later become known as John the Baptist in caring for the injured hand of Jesus.\n\nThe subject of Joachim and Anne \"The Meeting at the Golden Gate\" was a regular component of artistic cycles of the Life of the Virgin. The couple meet at the Golden Gate of Jerusalem and embrace. They are aware of Anne's pregnancy, of which they have been separately informed by an archangel. This moment stood for the conception of Mary, and the feast was celebrated on the same day as the Immaculate Conception. Art works representing the Golden Gate and the events leading up to it were influenced by the narrative in the widely read \"Golden Legend\" of Jacobus de Voragine. The Birth of Mary, the Presentation of Mary and the Marriage of the Virgin were usual components of cycles of the Life of the Virgin in which Anne is normally shown here. \n\nHer emblem is a door.\n\nAnne is never shown as present at the Nativity of Christ, but is frequently shown with the infant Christ in various subjects. She is sometimes believed to be depicted in scenes of the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple and the Circumcision of Christ, but in the former case, this likely reflects a misidentification through confusion with Anna the Prophetess. There was a tradition that Anne went (separately) to Egypt and rejoined the Holy Family after their Flight to Egypt. Anne is not seen with the adult Christ, so was regarded as having died during the youth of Jesus. Anne is also shown as the matriarch of the Holy Kinship, the extended family of Jesus, a popular subject in late medieval Germany; some versions of these pictorial and sculptural depictions include Emerentia who was reputed in the 15th Century to be Anne's mother. In modern devotions, Anne and her husband are invoked for protection for the unborn.\n\nThe role of the Messiah's grandparents in salvation history was commonly depicted in early medieval devotional art in a vertical double-Madonna arrangement known as the Virgin and Child with Saint Anne. Another typical subject has Anne teaching the Virgin Mary the Scriptures (see gallery below).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1946832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946832", "title": "Sara Taylor", "text": "Sara Taylor\n\nSara Taylor Fagen (born September 15, 1974, in Dubuque, Iowa) is a technology and data entrepreneur, and former staff member in the administration of President George W. Bush.\n\nIn April 1999, Fagen began working for the presidential campaign of George Bush. Her initial position, through January 2000, was coalitions director for Bush's Iowa caucus campaign. She then did field work in the South Carolina, Virginia, Washington, and Illinois primaries, and finally served as executive director of the Michigan campaign. After Bush was elected, Fagen worked for the White House as an associate political director (Midwest) doing political and public affairs outreach.\n\nFagen became the deputy to Matthew Dowd, Chief Strategist for the Bush-Cheney 2004 re-election campaign. Sara earned her reputation as one of the nation's leading political and issue campaign strategists, serving as a senior aide and White House Political Director for President George W. Bush, and playing a pivotal part in the 2004 Bush-Cheney re-election campaign. During the campaign, The Wall Street Journal called her a \"data whiz,\" and said: \"As a top strategist for the 2004 Bush-Cheney re-election efforts Fagen helped perfect political micro-targeting.\" She also served as a senior strategist helping to direct the President's message development, paid media strategy, and opinion research.\n\nAfter Bush's 2004 re-election, Fagen returned to work in the White House, where she served as the director of the White House Office of Political Affairs and deputy assistant to President George W. Bush. She left for the private sector in May 2007.\n\nOn June 13, 2007, the Senate and House judiciary committees issued a subpoena to Taylor, to produce documents and testify before the committee. A subpoena was also issued to Harriet E. Miers, former White House counsel and supreme court nominee. In response to the subpoenas, the White House said that its longstanding policy was that no past or present White House officials would be permitted to testify under oath before the panels, and that only private, non-legally-binding, non-transcribed interviews would be permitted.\n\nThe Democratic chairs of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees said that the White House terms were unacceptable.\n\nA ranking member of the Senate Judiciary committee, Arlen Specter (R-PA) said that the White House had not responded to an April 11, 2007, inquiry by the committee, and he supported the issuance of the subpoena in light of the lack of response by the White House and Taylor. On July 9, 2007, White House counsel Fred Fielding, in letters to Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Representative John Conyers (D-MI) said President Bush is invoking executive privilege and not allowing Taylor to testify, but reiterated that Taylor was available for a private, off the record interview.\n\nIn 2008, Fagen founded a media firm, BlueFront Strategies, as a strategic consulting and public affairs company to focus on issue advocacy and solutions for business. In mid-2009, Fagen co-founded, with public affairs veteran John Brady, the company Resonate Networks, an advertising firm that uses data on political leanings and attitudes to help companies and interest groups sell online ads.\n\nFagen became a partner at DDC Advocacy in 2011 after the company acquired Bluefront Strategies. In 2013, Fagen, along with the partners of TargetPoint Consulting, formed Deep Root Analytics, a media analytics company that helps clients use big data to improve ad buying decisions. Fagen also sits on the board of CentraForce. Fagen's commentary appears on CNBC, where she is regular contributor.\n\nIn 2013, Fagen and Target Point Consulting partners founded Deep Root Analytics, a media analytics company that helps clients use big data to make ad buying decisions. They aim to improve microtargeting by providing better web-enabled media targeting. In June 2017 cyber risk analyst Chris Vickery discovered Deep Root's data on an unsecure Amazon server, which exposed political data on more than 198 million American citizens. Sources of the data included American Crossroads, the Kantar Group and r/FatPeopleHate, among other subreddits.\n\nFagen graduated from Wahlert High School, a private, co-educational, Roman Catholic school in Dubuque, Iowa, in 1992. She then attended Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa. While in college, she was the National Co-Chairman of the College Republicans. She also took a year off, in 1995-1996, to work on Senator Phil Gramm's presidential campaign in Iowa.\n\nAfter graduating from Drake in 1997 with a B.S. in Finance, Fagen worked for two years at the Tarrance Group, a northern Virginia polling firm headed by Ed Goeas.\n\nFagen is the daughter of Ray Taylor, a former Iowa state representative. She is married.\n"}
{"id": "1163228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163228", "title": "Scott Peterson", "text": "Scott Peterson\n\nScott Lee Peterson (born October 24, 1972) is an American former fertilizer salesman who is currently on death row in San Quentin State Prison. In 2004, he was convicted of the first-degree murder of his pregnant wife, Laci Peterson, and the second-degree murder of their unborn son, Conner, in Modesto, California.\n\nIn 2005, he was sentenced to death by lethal injection. His case is currently on appeal to the Supreme Court of California.\n\nScott Lee Peterson was born October 24, 1972, at Sharp Coronado Hospital in San Diego, California, to Lee Arthur Peterson, a businessman who owned a crate-packaging company, and Jacqueline \"Jackie\" Helen Latham, who owned a boutique in La Jolla called The Put On. Though Lee and Jackie had six children from previous relationships, Scott was their only child together. As a child, he shared a bedroom with his half-brother John in the family's two-bedroom apartment in La Jolla.\n\nPeterson began playing golf at an early age, a result of time he spent with his father. By age 14, he could beat his father at the game. For a time, he had dreams of becoming a professional golfer like Phil Mickelson, his teammate at the University of San Diego High School. By the end of high school, he was one of the top junior golfers in San Diego. In 1990, Peterson enrolled at Arizona State University (where Mickelson had also enrolled) on a partial golf scholarship. Mickelson would go on to become a highly successful PGA golfer, with Lee Peterson later testifying that his son was discouraged by the considerable competition that Mickelson presented at Arizona State. Randall Mell of the Broward County, Florida \"Sun-Sentinel\" reported that Chip Couch, the father of University of Florida golfer Chris Couch, had gotten Peterson kicked off the golf team after giving Chris a hangover following a night of partying. Peterson transferred to Cuesta College in San Luis Obispo, California, and later, California Polytechnic State University. He initially planned to major in international business, but changed his major to agricultural business. Professors who taught Peterson described him as a model student. His agribusiness professor, Jim Ahern, commented, \"I wouldn't mind having a class full of Scott Petersons.\"\n\nWhile at Cal Poly, Peterson worked at a restaurant in Morro Bay called the Pacific Café. One of his co-workers would receive visits from a neighbor named Laci Denise Rocha, who also attended Cal Poly as an ornamental horticulture major. When Peterson and his future wife first met at the restaurant in mid-1994, Laci made the first move, sending him her phone number. Immediately after meeting him, Laci told her mother that she had met the man that she would marry. Peterson later called Laci and they began dating, their first date being a deep-sea fishing trip on which Laci got seasick. As Peterson's relationship with Laci grew more serious, he put aside his dreams of professional golf in order to focus on a business path. The couple dated for two years and eventually moved in together. In 1997, after Laci graduated, they married at Sycamore Mineral Springs Resort in San Luis Obispo County's Avila Valley. While Peterson finished his senior year, Laci took a job in nearby Prunedale. Prosecutors have stated that around this time, Peterson engaged in the first of at least two extramarital affairs, though they have not revealed a name or details of each relationship.\n\nPeterson graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in agricultural business in June 1998. After their graduations, the Petersons opened a sports bar in San Luis Obispo called The Shack. Contrary to a \"Los Angeles Times\" story that reported that Peterson's parents loaned him money to open the establishment, his parents emphatically told the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" that they did not, believing it was a bad investment. When the couple had difficulty finding a technician to install a needed vent in the restaurant, Peterson took the necessary certification course in Los Angeles in order to install it himself. Business was initially slow, but eventually improved, especially on weekends. The Petersons sold The Shack in 2000 when they moved to Laci's hometown of Modesto to start a family. In October 2000, they purchased a three-bedroom, two-bath bungalow house for $177,000 on Covena Avenue in an upscale neighborhood near La Loma Park.\n\nLaci soon took a part-time job as a substitute teacher, and Peterson got a job with Tradecorp U.S.A., a newly founded subsidiary of a Spanish fertilizer company. According to Lee Peterson, the Spanish company was trying to establish a customer base in the U.S., and hired Scott as their West Coast representative. Working on salary plus commission, Peterson sold fertilizer, irrigation systems, chemical nutrients, and related products to big farms and flower growers, primarily in California, Arizona, and New Mexico. He was earning a salary of $5,000 a month before taxes. Laci's loved ones, including her mother and younger sister, related that she worked enthusiastically at being the perfect housewife, enjoying cooking and entertaining, and that she and her family welcomed the news in 2002 that she was pregnant. In November 2002, when Laci was seven months pregnant, Peterson was introduced by a friend to a Fresno massage therapist named Amber Frey. In later public statements, Frey said Peterson told her he was single, and the two began a romantic relationship. The last time Peterson's parents saw Laci was during a three-day weekend they spent together in Carmel the week before Christmas.\n\nOn December 24, 2002, Laci's parents, Dennis Robert Rocha and Sharon Ruth Anderson, reported Laci missing from their Modesto home. She was seven-and-a-half months pregnant at the time, with a due date of February 10, 2003. The couple had planned to name the baby boy Conner. The exact date and cause of Laci's death were never determined. Peterson initially reported her missing on Christmas Eve, and the story quickly attracted nationwide media interest. Modesto detectives Jon Buehler and Allen Brocchini, the lead investigators on the case, questioned Peterson the day he reported Laci missing. Peterson stated that he had been out on his boat at the Berkeley Marina in Richmond to go fishing, about 90 miles from their Modesto home. Detectives immediately launched a search, but were surprised by Peterson's behavior. Buehler later told ABC News that, \"I suspected Scott when I first met him. Didn't mean he did it, but I was a little bit thrown off by his calm, cool demeanor and his lack of questioning ... he wasn't, 'Will you call me back? Can I have one of your cards? What are you guys doing now?'\"\n\nModesto police did not immediately reveal to the public that Peterson was a suspect, largely because Laci's family and friends maintained their faith in his innocence during the month following her disappearance. The police did treat the case as suspicious within the first few hours after the missing persons report was filed. Eventually, the police grew more suspicious due to inconsistencies in Peterson's story. On January 17, 2003, it became known that Peterson had engaged in numerous affairs, most recently with Amber Frey. She approached the police about Peterson, whom she had just begun to date, after learning that he was actually married to a missing woman. At this point, Laci's family announced that they had withdrawn their support of Peterson, later expressing anger that he had told Frey that he'd \"lost his wife\" on December 9, 2002—fourteen days before she disappeared.\n\nFrey agreed to let the police tape her subsequent phone conversations with Peterson in the hopes of getting him to confess. During the trial, the audio recordings of the couple's conversations were played, and the transcripts were publicized. The recordings revealed that in the days after Laci went missing, Peterson claimed to Frey that he had traveled to Paris to celebrate the holidays, in part with his new companions Pasqual and François. In reality, he had made one of these phone calls while attending the New Year's Eve candlelight vigil for Laci in Modesto.\n\nOn April 13, 2003, the remains of a late-term male fetus were found on Richmond's Point Isabel Regional Shoreline, north of the marina where Peterson had been boating the day of Laci's disappearance. The next day, a partial female torso missing its hands, feet, and head was found in the same area. The bodies were identified as Laci and her fetus. Autopsies were performed, but due to decomposition the exact cause of death could not be determined. The medical examiner did note that she had suffered some broken ribs prior to her death; these injuries were not caused by her body being dragged along the rocks in the bay. Prosecutors suggested that she could have been suffocated or strangled in their home. The discovery of the bodies created a greater sense of urgency for Brocchini and Buehler, who had put a tracker on Peterson's car. Knowing that he was in San Diego at the time, they feared he would escape across the border to Mexico. Brocchini commented in 2017, \"I just thought, 'We've got to find Scott right now. He told me he was there and that’s where the bodies come up? I mean, I believe it was premeditated, he planned it... San Diego was pretty darn close to the Mexican border. Scott knew the area pretty well. That's where his parents lived. That's where he lived. So it wasn't like he was going to have to get on MapQuest to try and figure out a way to get to Tijuana.\"\n\nThe FBI and Modesto Police Department performed forensic searches of Peterson's home. The FBI also conducted mitochondrial DNA testing on a hair from pliers found in Peterson's fishing boat that linked them with hairs recovered from Laci's hairbrush. The authorities also searched Peterson's pickup truck, toolbox, warehouse, and boat. After Peterson was arrested, police conducted further searches in the bay in an attempt to locate hand-made concrete anchors they believe weighed down Laci's body while it was under water; nothing was found.\n\nPeterson was arrested on April 18, 2003, near a La Jolla golf course. He claimed to be meeting his father and brother for a game of golf. His naturally dark brown hair had been dyed blond, and his Mercedes-Benz was \"overstuffed\" with miscellaneous items, including nearly $15,000 in cash, twelve Viagra tablets, survival gear, camping equipment, several changes of clothes, four cell phones, and his brother's driver's license, in addition to his own. Peterson's father explained that he used his brother's license the day before to get a San Diego resident discount at the golf course, and that Peterson had been living out of his car because of the media attention. However, police feared these items were an indication that Peterson planned to flee to Mexico, an idea with which prosecutors would later concur.\n\nOn April 21, 2003, Peterson was arraigned in Stanislaus County Superior Court before Judge Nancy Ashley. He was charged with two felony counts of murder with premeditation and special circumstances: the first-degree murder of Laci, and the second-degree murder of Conner. He plead not guilty.\n\nBefore his arraignment, Peterson had been represented by Kirk McAllister, a veteran criminal defense attorney from Modesto. Chief Deputy Public Defender Kent Faulkner was also assigned to the case. Peterson later indicated that he could afford a private attorney, namely Mark Geragos, who had done other high-profile criminal defense work. On January 20, 2004, a judge changed the venue of the trial from Modesto to Redwood City, because Peterson was the victim of increasing hostility in the Modesto area.\n\nPeterson's trial began on June 1, 2004, and was followed closely by the media. The lead prosecutor was Rick Distaso. Geragos led Peterson's defense. Prosecution witness Frey engaged her own attorney, Gloria Allred, to represent her. Allred was not bound by the gag order imposed on those involved in the trial. Although she maintained that her client had no opinion about whether Peterson was guilty, Allred was openly sympathetic to the prosecution. She appeared frequently on television news programs during the trial.\n\nPeterson's defense lawyers based their case on the lack of direct evidence and played down the significance of circumstantial evidence. They suggested that the fetal remains were of a full-term infant and theorized that someone kidnapped Laci, held her until she gave birth, and then dumped both bodies in the bay. The prosecution's medical experts contended that the baby was not full term and died at the same time as his mother. Geragos suggested that a Satanic cult kidnapped the pregnant woman. He claimed Peterson was \"a cad\" for cheating on Laci, but was not a murderer.\n\nJuror Frances Gorman was removed and replaced early in the trial due to misconduct. Jury foreman and attorney Gregory Jackson later requested his own removal during jury deliberations, most likely because his fellow jurors wanted to replace him as foreman. Geragos told reporters that Jackson had mentioned threats he received when he requested to be removed from the jury. Jackson was replaced by an alternate.\n\nA single hair was the only piece of forensic evidence that was identified. The strand, thought to have been Laci's, was found in a pair of pliers on Peterson's boat.\n\nPresented as prosecution evidence during the trial was the fact that Peterson changed his appearance and purchased a vehicle using his mother's name in order to avoid recognition by the press. He added two pornographic television channels to his cable service only days after his wife's disappearance. The prosecution stated that this meant he knew she would not be returning home. Peterson expressed interest in selling the house he had shared with Laci, and sold her Land Rover.\n\nRick Cheng, a hydrologist with the United States Geological Survey and an expert witness on tides of the San Francisco Bay, testified as a witness for the prosecution. During cross-examination, Cheng admitted that his findings were \"probable, not precise.\" Tidal systems are sufficiently chaotic, and he was unable to develop an exact model of the bodies' disposal and travel. As the trial progressed, the prosecution opened discussion of Peterson's affair with Frey and the contents of their taped telephone calls.\n\nThe defense argued that a prostitute who was accused of stealing checks from Peterson's mailbox might have murdered Laci, but Modesto police detective Mike Hermosa did not indicate that the woman was ever a suspect in her disappearance. Prosecutor Dave Harris noted that the checks were stolen after she vanished, meaning the woman was not involved in her disappearance.\n\nCharles March was expected to be a crucial witness for the defense, one who, according to the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", could single-handedly exonerate Peterson by showing that Laci's fetus died a week after prosecutors claimed. Under cross-examination, March admitted basing his findings on an anecdote from one of Laci's friends that she had taken a home pregnancy test on June 9, 2002. When prosecutors pointed out that no medical records relied on the June 9 date, March became flustered and confused on the stand and asked a prosecutor to cut him \"some slack\", undermining his credibility. Summing up this key defense witness, Stan Goldman, a criminal law professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles said, \"There were moments today that reminded me of Chernobyl.\" According to one newspaper account about March's testimony, \"by the end of his testimony Thursday, legal analysts and jurors closed their notebooks, rolled their eyes, and snickered when they thought no one was looking\".\n\nThe prosecution presented Peterson's affair with Frey and financial problems as motives for the murder. Prosecutors surmised that he killed Laci due to increasing debt and a desire to be single again.\n\nOn November 12, 2004, a jury convicted Peterson of two counts of murder: first-degree murder with special circumstances for killing Laci, and second-degree murder for killing the fetus she carried. The penalty phase of the trial began on November 30, and concluded December 13, when the jury rendered a sentence of death. On March 16, Judge Alfred A. Delucchi followed the jury verdict, sentencing Peterson to death by lethal injection and ordering him to pay $10,000 toward the cost of Laci's funeral, calling the murder of Laci \"cruel, uncaring, heartless, and callous\".\n\nIn later press appearances, members of the jury stated that they felt that Peterson's demeanor—specifically his lack of emotion and the phone calls to Frey in the days following Laci's disappearance—indicated that he was guilty. They based their verdict on \"hundreds of small 'puzzle pieces' of circumstantial evidence that were revealed during the trial, from the location of Laci's body to the myriad lies her husband told after her disappearance\". The jury decided on the death penalty because they felt that Peterson betrayed his responsibility to protect his wife and son.\n\nOn October 21, 2005 a judge ruled that proceeds from a $250,000 life insurance policy Peterson took out on Laci will go to Laci's mother, which was reaffirmed by the Fifth District Court of Appeal on October 21, 2005. Peterson's automatic appeal was filed in the California Supreme Court on July 5, 2012.\n\nPeterson arrived at San Quentin State Prison in the early morning hours of Wednesday, March 17, 2005. He was reported not to have slept the night before, being too \"jazzed\" to sleep. He joined the more than 700 other inmates in California's sole death row facility while his case is on automatic appeal to the Supreme Court of California.\n\nCliff Gardner, Peterson's attorney, stated that the publicity surrounding the trial, incorrect evidentiary rulings, and other mistakes deprived Peterson of a fair trial. On July 6, 2012, Gardner filed a 423-page appeal of Peterson's sentence. The State Attorney General's office filed their response brief on January 26, 2015. The defense filed a response to the State's brief in July 2015, claiming that a certified dog that detected Laci's scent at Berkeley Marina had failed two-thirds of tests with similar conditions.\n\nIn November 2015, the defense filed a \"habeas corpus\" petition, claiming that a juror lied on her jury application, and that there was evidence that neighbors saw Laci alive after Scott left home. On August 10, 2017, the State Attorney General responded to the appeal by filing a 150-page document contesting the notion disputing the claims put forward in the appeal, stating that the appeal ignored \"overwhelming evidence\" that Peterson murdered Laci. Supervising Deputy Attorney General Donna Provenzano stated that the timeline of the crime was established by the neighbor who found the Petersons' Golden Retriever wandering in the street with its leash still attached, before the sightings of Laci and her dog. Provenzano also indicated, \"Purported sightings of Laci were legion,\" noting 74 reported sightings in 26 states and overseas, most of which she stated, were neither viable nor corroborated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2487546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2487546", "title": "Ted Owens (contactee)", "text": "Ted Owens (contactee)\n\nTed Owens (1920-1987) was an alleged UFO contactee who claimed paranormal powers.\n\nOwens, who had a genius-level IQ and was a member of Mensa, believed he had been subject to \"psychic surgery\" by \"space intelligences\" who had operated on his brain to allow him to receive their telepathic messages. He considered himself a \"UFO prophet\" and compared himself with Moses, claiming psychokinetic powers that enabled him to not only predict but control lightning, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and volcanoes. Dubbing himself the \"PK Man\", Owens professed that his alleged powers were given to him by space intelligences who wished to call attention to the dangers that nuclear weapons and environmental pollution posed for mankind.\n\nScience fiction and comic book writer Otto Binder wrote that Owens suffered a series of accidents resulting in brain trauma, which he felt were responsible for Owens supposed supernormal powers. Parapsychologist Jeffrey Mishlove wrote a book about Owens, \"The PK Man: A True Story of Mind Over Matter\", with a foreword by John E. Mack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39173145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39173145", "title": "Theology of John Calvin", "text": "Theology of John Calvin\n\nThe theology of John Calvin has been influential in both the development of the system of belief now known as Calvinism and in Protestant thought more generally. There has been disagreement among scholars regarding the degree to which later Calvinism corresponds to Calvin's own theology.\n\n\"The Encyclopedia of Christianity\" suggests that:\n\nHis theological importance is tied to the attempted systematization of Christian doctrine. In the doctrine of predestination; in his simple, eschatologically grounded distinction between an immanent and a transcendent eternal work of salvation, resting on Christology and the sacraments; and in his emphasis upon the work of the Holy Spirit in producing the obedience of faith in the regenerate (the \"tertius usus legis\", or so-called third use of the law), he elaborated the orthodoxy that would have a lasting impact on Reformed theology.\n\nCalvin developed his theology in his biblical commentaries as well as his sermons and treatises, but the most concise expression of his views is found in his magnum opus, the \"Institutes of the Christian Religion\". He intended that the book be used as a summary of his views on Christian theology and that it be read in conjunction with his commentaries. The various editions of that work span nearly his entire career as a reformer, and the successive revisions of the book show that his theology changed very little from his youth to his death. The first edition from 1536 consisted of only six chapters. The second edition, published in 1539, was three times as long because he added chapters on subjects that appear in Melanchthon's \"Loci Communes\". In 1543, he again added new material and expanded a chapter on the Apostles' Creed. The final edition of the \"Institutes\" appeared in 1559. By then, the work consisted of four books of eighty chapters, and each book was named after statements from the creed: Book 1 on God the Creator, Book 2 on the Redeemer in Christ, Book 3 on receiving the Grace of Christ through the Holy Spirit, and Book 4 on the Society of Christ or the Church.\n\nThe first statement in the \"Institutes\" acknowledges its central theme. It states that the sum of human wisdom consists of two parts: the knowledge of God and of ourselves. Calvin argues that the knowledge of God is not inherent in humanity nor can it be discovered by observing this world. The only way to obtain it is to study scripture. Calvin writes, \"For anyone to arrive at God the Creator he needs Scripture as his Guide and Teacher.\" He does not try to prove the authority of scripture but rather describes it as \"autopiston\" or self-authenticating. He defends the trinitarian view of God and, in a strong polemical stand against the Catholic Church, argues that images of God lead to idolatry.\n\nCalvin viewed Scripture as being both \"majestic\" and \"simple\". According to Ford Lewis Battles, Calvin had discovered that \"sublimity of style and sublimity of thought were not coterminous.\"\n\nAt the end of the first book of the \"Institutes\", he offers his views on providence, writing, \"By his Power God cherishes and guards the World which he made and by his Providence rules its individual Parts. Humans are unable to fully comprehend why God performs any particular action, but whatever good or evil people may practise, their efforts always result in the execution of God's will and judgments.\"\n\nThe second book of the \"Institutes\" includes several essays on the original sin and the fall of man, which directly refer to Augustine, who developed these doctrines. He often cited the Church Fathers in order to defend the reformed cause against the charge that the reformers were creating new theology. In Calvin's view, sin began with the fall of Adam and propagated to all of humanity. The domination of sin is complete to the point that people are driven to evil. Thus fallen humanity is in need of the redemption that can be found in Christ. But before Calvin expounded on this doctrine, he described the special situation of the Jews who lived during the time of the Old Testament. God made a covenant with Abraham, promising the coming of Christ. Hence, the Old Covenant was not in opposition to Christ, but was rather a continuation of God's promise. Calvin then describes the New Covenant using the passage from the Apostles' Creed that describes Christ's suffering under Pontius Pilate and his return to judge the living and the dead. For Calvin, the whole course of Christ's obedience to the Father removed the discord between humanity and God.\n\nR. T. Kendall has argued that Calvin's view of the atonement differs from that of later Calvinists, especially the Puritans. Kendall interpreted Calvin as believing that Christ died for all people, but intercedes only for the elect.\n\nKendall's thesis has been disputed by Paul Helm, who argues that \"both Calvin and the Puritans taught that Christ died for the elect and intercedes for the elect.\"\n\nIn the third book of the \"Institutes\", Calvin describes how the spiritual union of Christ and humanity is achieved. He first defines faith as the firm and certain knowledge of God in Christ. The immediate effects of faith are repentance and the remission of sin. This is followed by spiritual regeneration, which returns the believer to the state of holiness before Adam's transgression. However, complete perfection is unattainable in this life, and the believer should expect a continual struggle against sin. Several chapters are then devoted to the subject of justification by faith alone. He defined justification as \"the acceptance by which God regards us as righteous whom he has received into grace.\" In this definition, it is clear that it is God who initiates and carries through the action and that people play no role; God is completely sovereign in salvation. According to Alister McGrath, Calvin provided a solution to the Reformation problem of how justification relates to sanctification. Calvin suggested that both came out of union with Christ. McGrath notes that while Martin Bucer suggested that justification causes (moral) regeneration, Calvin argued that \"both justification and regeneration are the results of the believer's union with Christ through faith.\"\n\nNear the end of the \"Institutes\", Calvin describes and defends the doctrine of predestination, a doctrine advanced by Augustine in opposition to the teachings of Pelagius. Fellow theologians who followed the Augustinian tradition on this point included Thomas Aquinas and Martin Luther, though Calvin's formulation of the doctrine went further than the tradition that went before him. The principle, in Calvin's words, is that \"All are not created on equal terms, but some are preordained to eternal life, others to eternal damnation; and, accordingly, as each has been created for one or other of these ends, we say that he has been predestinated to life or to death.\"\n\nThe doctrine of predestination \"does not stand at the beginning of the dogmatic system as it does in Zwingli or Beza\", but, according to Fahlbusch, it \"does tend to burst through the soteriological-Christological framework.\" In contrast to some other Protestant Reformers, Calvin taught double predestination. Chapter 21 of Book III of the \"Institutes\" is called \"Of the eternal election, by which God has predestinated some to salvation, and others to destruction\".\n\nThe final book of the \"Institutes\" describes what he considers to be the true Church and its ministry, authority, and sacraments. He denied the papal claim to primacy and the accusation that the reformers were schismatic. For Calvin, the Church was defined as the body of believers who placed Christ at its head. By definition, there was only one \"catholic\" or \"universal\" Church. Hence, he argued that the reformers \"had to leave them in order that we might come to Christ.\" The ministers of the Church are described from a passage from Ephesians, and they consisted of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and doctors. Calvin regarded the first three offices as temporary, limited in their existence to the time of the New Testament. The latter two offices were established in the church in Geneva. Although Calvin respected the work of the ecumenical councils, he considered them to be subject to God's Word found in scripture. He also believed that the civil and church authorities were separate and should not interfere with each other.\n\nCalvin defined a sacrament as an earthly sign associated with a promise from God. He accepted only two sacraments as valid under the new covenant: baptism and the Lord's Supper (in opposition to the Catholic acceptance of seven sacraments). He completely rejected the Catholic doctrine of transubstantiation and the treatment of the Supper as a sacrifice. He also could not accept the Lutheran doctrine of sacramental union in which Christ was \"in, with and under\" the elements. His own view was close to Zwingli's symbolic view, but it was not identical. Rather than holding a purely symbolic view, Calvin noted that with the participation of the Holy Spirit, faith was nourished and strengthened by the sacrament. In his words, the eucharistic rite was \"a secret too sublime for my mind to understand or words to express. I experience it rather than understand it.\"\n\nIn common with other Protestant Reformers, Calvin believed that there were only two sacraments, baptism and the Lord's Supper. Calvin also conceded that ordination could also be called a sacrament, but suggested that it was a \"special rite for a certain function.\"\n\nCalvin believed in infant baptism, and devoted a chapter in his \"Institutes\" to the subject.\n\nCalvin believed in a real spiritual presence of Christ at the Eucharist. For Calvin, union with Christ was at the heart of the Lord's Supper.\n\nAccording to Brian Gerrish, there are three different interpretations of the Lord's Supper within non-Lutheran Protestant theology: \n\nCalvin's sacramental theology was criticized by later Reformed writers. Robert L. Dabney, for example, called it “not only incomprehensible but impossible.”\n\nCalvin's theology was not without controversy. Pierre Caroli, a Protestant minister in Lausanne accused Calvin, as well as Viret and Farel, of Arianism in 1536. Calvin defended his beliefs on the Trinity in \"Confessio de Trinitate propter calumnias P. Caroli\". In 1551 Jérôme-Hermès Bolsec, a physician in Geneva, attacked Calvin's doctrine of predestination and accused him of making God the author of sin. Bolsec was banished from the city, and after Calvin's death, he wrote a biography which severely maligned Calvin's character. In the following year, Joachim Westphal, a Gnesio-Lutheran pastor in Hamburg, condemned Calvin and Zwingli as heretics in denying the eucharistic doctrine of the union of Christ's body with the elements. Calvin's \"Defensio sanae et orthodoxae doctrinae de sacramentis\" (A Defence of the Sober and Orthodox Doctrine of the Sacrament) was his response in 1555. In 1556 , a Dutch dissident, held a public disputation with Calvin during his visit to Frankfurt, in which Velsius defended free will against Calvin's doctrine of predestination. Following the execution of Servetus, a close associate of Calvin, Sebastian Castellio, broke with him on the issue of the treatment of heretics. In Castellio's \"Treatise on Heretics\" (1554), he argued for a focus on Christ's moral teachings in place of the vanity of theology, and he afterward developed a theory of tolerance based on biblical principles.\n\nScholars have debated Calvin's view of the Jews and Judaism. Some have argued that Calvin was the least anti-semitic among all the major reformers of his time, especially in comparison to Martin Luther. Others have argued that Calvin was firmly within the anti-semitic camp. Scholars agree, however, that it is important to distinguish between Calvin's views toward the biblical Jews and his attitude toward contemporary Jews. In his theology, Calvin does not differentiate between God's covenant with Israel and the New Covenant. He stated, \"all the children of the promise, reborn of God, who have obeyed the commands by faith working through love, have belonged to the New Covenant since the world began.\" Still he was a supersessionist and argued that the Jews are a rejected people who must embrace Jesus to re-enter the covenant.\n\nMost of Calvin's statements on the Jewry of his era were polemical. For example, Calvin once wrote, \"I have had much conversation with many Jews: I have never seen either a drop of piety or a grain of truth or ingenuousness – nay, I have never found common sense in any Jew.\" In this respect, he differed little from other Protestant and Catholic theologians of his day. Among his extant writings, Calvin only dealt explicitly with issues of contemporary Jews and Judaism in one treatise, \"Response to Questions and Objections of a Certain Jew\". In it, he argued that Jews misread their own scriptures because they miss the unity of the Old and New Testaments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "238611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238611", "title": "Yōkai", "text": "Yōkai\n\n\"Yōkai\" often possess animal features (such as the \"kappa\", which looks similar to a turtle, or the \"tengu\" which has wings), yet others appear mostly human. Some \"yōkai\" look like inanimate objects (such as \"tsukumogami\"), while others have no discernible shape.\n\n\"Yōkai\" usually have spiritual or supernatural abilities, with shapeshifting being the most common. \"Yōkai\" that shapeshift are called \"bakemono (化物) / obake (お化け)\".\n\nJapanese folklorists and historians explain yōkai as personifications of \"supernatural or unaccountable phenomena to their informants\".\n\nIn the Edo period, many artists, such as Toriyama Sekien, invented new \"yōkai\" taking inspiration from folk tales or purely from their own imagination. Today, several such fabricated \"yōkai\" (e.g. Kameosa and Amikiri, see below) are commonly mistaken to originate in more traditional folklore.\n\nWhat is thought of as \"supernatural\" depends on the time period; but generally, the older the time period, the greater the amount of phenomena that were deemed supernatural in character or cause.\n\nAccording to Japanese ideas of animism, spirit-like entities called (among other things) \"mononoke\" were believed to reside in all things. Such spirits possessed emotions and personalities. If the spirit were peaceful, it was a \"nigi-mitama\", bringing good fortune—such as bountiful harvests. Violent spirits, \"ara-mitama\", brought ill fortune—including illness and natural disasters. One's ancestors and particularly-respected departed elders could be deemed \"nigi-mitama\", accruing status as protective gods and receiving worship. Animals, objects and natural features or phenomena were also venerated as \"nigi-mitama\" or propitiated as \"ara-mitama\"—depending on the area.\n\nThe ritual for converting \"ara-mitama\" into \"nigi-mitama\" was called the \"chinkon\" (\"the calming of the spirits\"). \"Chinkon\" rituals were performed to quell maleficent spirits, prevent misfortune and alleviate fear from events and circumstances that could not otherwise be explained. \"Ara-mitama\" that failed to achieve deification due to lack of sufficient veneration, or who lost their divinity following attrition of worshipers, became \"yōkai\".\n\nOver time, those things thought to be supernatural became fewer and fewer. Meanwhile, depictions of \"yōkai\" in \"emaki\" and paintings began to standardize, turning into caricatures and softening their fearsome natures. Elements from tales of \"yōkai\" were increasingly mined for public entertainment. Use of \"yōkai\" in popular media began as early as the middle ages. However, the mythology and lore of \"yōkai\" became more defined and formalized during the Edo period and after.\n\nThe folkloricist Tsutomu Ema studied the literature and paintings depicting \"yōkai\" and \"henge\" (変化, or \"mutants\") and divided them into categories, as presented in the \"Nihon Yōkai Henge Shi\" and the \"Obake no Rekishi\".\n\nIn traditional Japanese folkloristics, \"yōkai\" are classified (not unlike the nymphs of Greek mythology) by location or phenomenon associated with their manifestation. \"Yōkai\" are indexed in the book \"Sogo Nihon Minzoku Goi\" (綜合日本民俗語彙, \"A Complete Dictionary of Japanese Folklore\") as follows:\n\n\nThe ancient times were a period abundant in literature and folktales mentioning and explaining \"yōkai\". Literature such as the Kojiki, the Nihon Shoki, and various Fudoki expositioned on legends from the ancient past, and mentions of \"oni\", \"orochi\", among other kinds of mysterious phenomena can already be seen in them. In the Heian period, collections of stories about \"yōkai\" and other supernatural phenomena were published in multiple volumes, starting with publications such as the Nihon Ryōiki and the Konjaku Monogatarishū, and in these publications, mentions of phenomena such as Hyakki Yagyō can be seen. The \"yōkai\" that appear in these literature were passed on to later generations. However, despite the literature mentioning and explaining these \"yōkai\", they were never given any visual depictions. In Buddhist paintings such as the Hell Scroll (Nara National Museum), which came from the later Heian period, there are visual expressions of the idea of \"oni\", but actual visual depictions would only come later in the middle ages, from the Kamakura period and beyond.\n\nYamata no Orochi was originally a local god but turned into a \"yōkai\" that was slain by Susanoo. Yasaburo was originally a bandit whose vengeful spirit (\"onryo\") turned into a poisonous snake upon death and plagued the water in a paddy, but eventually became deified as the \"wisdom god of the well (井の明神).\" \"Kappa\" and \"inugami\" are sometimes treated as gods in one area and \"yōkai\" in other areas. From these examples, it can be seen that among Japanese gods, there are some beings that can go from god to \"yōkai\" and vice versa.\n\nMedieval Japan was a time period where publications such as \"Emakimono\", \"Otogizōshi\", and other visual depictions of \"yōkai\" started to appear. While there were religious publications such as the \"Jisha Engi\" (寺社縁起), others, such as the \"Otogizōshi\", were intended more for entertainment, starting the trend where \"yōkai\" became more and more seen as subjects of entertainment. For examples, tales of \"yōkai\" extermination could be said to be a result of emphasizing the superior status of human society over \"yōkai\". Publications included:\nIn this way, \"yōkai\" that were mentioned only in writing were given a visual appearance in the middle ages. In the Otogizōshi, familiar tales such as Urashima Tarō and Issun-bōshi also appeared.\n\nThe next major change in \"yōkai\" came after the period of warring states, in the Edo period.\n\n\nIt was in this era that the technology of the printing press and publication was first started to be widely used, that a publishing culture developed, and was frequently a subject of \"kibyoshi\" and other publications.\n\nAs a result, \"kashi-hon\" shops that handled such books spread and became widely used, making the general public's impression of each \"yōkai\" fixed, spreading throughout all of Japan. For example, before the Edo period, there were plenty of interpretations about what the \"yōkai\" were that were classified as \"kappa\",\"but because of books and publishing, the notion of \"kappa\" became anchored to what is now the modern notion of \"kappa\". Also, including other kinds of publications, other than \"yōkai\" born from folk legend, there were also many invented \"yōkai\" that were created through puns or word plays, and the Gazu Hyakki Hagyo by Sekien Toriyama is one example of that. Also, when the Hyakumonogatari Kaidankai became popular in the Edo period, it is thought that one reason for the appearance of new \"yōkai\" was a demand for entertaining ghost stories about \"yōkai\" no one has ever heard of before, resulting in some ō that were simply made up for the purpose of telling an entertaining story, and the \"kasa-obake\" and the \"tōfu-kozō\" are known examples of these.\n\nThey are also frequently depicted in \"ukiyo-e\", and there are artists that have drawn famous \"yōkai\" like Utagawa Kuniyoshi, Yoshitoshi, Kawanabe Kyōsai, and Hokusai, and there are also Hyakki Yagyō books made by artists of the Kanō school.\n\nIn this period, toys and games like \"karuta\", \"sugoroku\", pogs frequently used \"yōkai\" as characters. Thus, with the development of a publishing culture, \"yōkai\" depictions that were treasured in temples and shrines were able to become something more familiar to people, and it is thought that this is the reason that even though \"yōkai\" were originally things to be feared, they have then became characters that people feel close to.\n\nWith the Meiji Restoration, Western ideas and translated western publications began to make an impact, and western tales were particularly sought after. Things like \"binbogami\", \"yakubyogami\", and \"shinigami\" were talked about, and \"shinigami\" were even depicted in classical \"rakugo\", and although the \"shinigami\" were misunderstood as a kind of Japanese \"yōkai\" or \"kami\", they actually became well-known among the populace through a \"rakugo\" called \"Shinigami\" in San'yūtei Enchō, which were adoptions of European tales such as the Grimm fairy tale \"Godfather Death\" and the Italian opera \"Crispino\" (1850). Also, in Meiji 41 (1908), Kyōka Izumi and Tobari Chikufuu jointedly translated Gerhart Hauptmann's play \"The Sunken Bell\". Later works of Kyōka such as Yasha ga Ike were influenced by \"The Sunken Bell\", and so it can be seen that folktales that come from the West became adapted into Japanese tales of yōkai.\n\nSince yōkai are introduced in various kinds of media, they have become well-known among the old, the young, men and women. The \"kamishibai\" from before the war, and the \"manga\" industry, as well as the \"kashi-hon\" shops that continued to exist until around Showa 40 (the 1970s), as well as television contributed to the public knowledge and familiarity with \"yōkai\". \"Yōkai\" play a role in attracting tourism revitalizing local regions, like the places depicted in the Tono Monogatari like Tono, Iwate, Iwate Prefecture and the Tottori Prefecture, which is Shigeru Mizuki's place of birth. In Kyoto, there is a store called Yōkaido, which is a renovated \"machiya\" (traditional Kyoto-style house), and the owner gives a guided \"yōkai\" tour of Kyoto.\n\nIn this way, \"yōkai\" are spoken about in legends in various forms, but traditional oral storytelling by the elders and the older people is rare, and regionally unique situations and background in oral storytelling are not easily conveyed. For example, the classical \"yōkai\" represented by \"tsukumogami\" can only be felt as something realistic by living close to nature, such as with \"tanuki\" (Japanese racoon dogs), foxes and weasels. Furthermore, in the suburbs, and other regions, even when living in a primary-sector environment, there are tools that are no longer seen, such as the inkstone, the \"kama\" (a large cooking pot), or the \"tsurube\" (a bucket used for getting water from a well), and there exist \"yōkai\" that are reminiscent of old lifestyles such as the \"azukiarai\" and the \"dorotabo\". As a result, even for those born in the first decade of the Showa period (1925–1935), except for some who were evacuated to the countryside, they would feel that those things that become \"yōkai\" are \"not familiar\" are \"not very understandable.\" For example, in classical \"rakugo\", even though people understand the words and what they refer to, they are not able to imagine it as something that could be realistic. Thus, the modernization of society has had a negative effect on the place of yōkai in classical Japanese culture.\n\nOn the other hand, the \"yōkai\" introduced through mass media are not limited to only those that come from classical sources like folklore, and just as in the Edo period, new fictional \"yōkai\" continue to be invented, such as scary school stories and other urban legends like \"kuchisake-onna\" and \"Hanako-san\", giving birth to new \"yōkai\". From 1975 onwards, starting with the popularity of \"kuchisake-onna\", these urban legends began to be referred to in mass media as \"modern \"yōkai\".\" This terminology was also used in recent publications dealing with urban legends, and the researcher on yōkai, Bintarō Yamaguchi, used this especially frequently.\n\nDuring the 1970s, many books were published that introduced \"yōkai\" through encyclopaedias, illustrated reference books, and dictionaries as a part of children's horror books, but along with the \"yōkai\" that come from classics like folklore, \"kaidan\", and essays, it has been pointed out by modern research that there are some mixed in that do not come from classics, but were newly created. Some well-known examples of these are the \"gashadokuro\" and the \"jubokko\". For example, Arifumi Sato is known to be a creator of modern \"yōkai\", and Shigeru Mizuki, a manga artist for \"yōkai\", in writings concerning research about \"yōkai\", pointed out that newly created \"yōkai\" do exist, and Mizuki himself, through \"GeGeGe no Kitaro\", created about 30 new yōkai. There has been much criticism that this mixing of classical \"yōkai\" with newly created \"yōkai\" is making light of tradition and legends. However, since there have already been those from the Edo period like Sekien Toriyama who created many new \"yōkai\", there is also the opinion that it is unreasonable to criticize modern creations without doing the same for classical creations too. Furthermore, there is a favorable view that says that introducing various \"yōkai\" characters through these books nurtured creativity and emotional development of young readers of the time.\n\nVarious kinds of \"yōkai\" are encountered in folklore and folklore-inspired art and literature.\n\n\nOther popular works focusing on \"yōkai\" include the \"Nurarihyon no Mago\" series, \"Yo-kai Watch\" and the 1960s \"Yokai Monsters\" film series, which was loosely remade in 2005 as Takashi Miike's \"The Great Yokai War\". They often play major roles in Japanese fiction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36882279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36882279", "title": "Zurab Chumburidze", "text": "Zurab Chumburidze\n\nZurab Chumburidze (; born 6 July 1926, Terjola District) — Georgian philologist, critic, Doctor of Sciences in the field of philology (1969), professor (since 1970), member of Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1948) and Georgian writers' Union, author of nearly 250 literary and linguistic works much of which is published as a book.\n\nHe graduated from the faculty of philology at Tbilisi State University in 1949. He published his first book — „Issues about Georgian literary language and style“ (1956).\nHis major works include:\n\n"}
