{"id": "4809003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4809003", "title": "Agrippa (A Book of the Dead)", "text": "Agrippa (A Book of the Dead)\n\nAgrippa (A Book of the Dead) is a work of art created by science fiction novelist William Gibson, artist Dennis Ashbaugh and publisher Kevin Begos Jr. in 1992. The work consists of a 300-line semi-autobiographical electronic poem by Gibson, embedded in an artist's book by Ashbaugh. Gibson's text focused on the ethereal nature of memories (the title is taken from a photo album). Its principal notoriety arose from the fact that the poem, stored on a 3.5\" floppy disk, was programmed to encrypt itself after a single use; similarly, the pages of the artist's book were treated with photosensitive chemicals, effecting the gradual fading of the words and images from the book's first exposure to light.\n\nThe impetus for the initiation of the project was Kevin Begos Jr., a publisher of museum-quality manuscripts motivated by disregard for the commercialism of the art world, who suggested to abstract painter Dennis Ashbaugh that they \"put out an art book on computer that vanishes\". Ashbaugh—who despite his \"heavy art-world resume\" was bored with the abstract impressionist paintings he was doing—took the suggestion seriously, and developed it further.\n\nA few years beforehand, Ashbaugh had written a fan letter to cyberpunk novelist William Gibson, whose oeuvre he had admired, and the pair had struck up a telephone friendship. Shortly after the project had germinated in the minds of Begos and Ashbaugh, they contacted and recruited Gibson. The project exemplified Gibson's deep ambivalence towards technologically advanced futurity, and as \"The New York Times\" expressed it, was \"designed to challenge conventional notions about books and art while extracting money from collectors of both\".\n\nThe project manifested as a poem written by Gibson incorporated into an artist's book created by Ashbaugh; as such it was as much a work of collaborative conceptual art as poetry. Gibson stated that Ashbaugh's design \"eventually included a supposedly self-devouring floppy-disk intended to display the text only once, then eat itself.\" Ashbaugh was gleeful at the dilemma this would pose to librarians: in order to register the copyright of the book, he had to send two copies to the United States Library of Congress, who, in order to classify it had to read it, and in the process, necessarily had to destroy it. The creators had initially intended to infect the disks with a computer virus, but declined to after considering the potential damage to the computer systems of innocents.\n\nThe work was premiered on December 9, 1992, at The Kitchen, an art space in Chelsea in New York City. The performance—known as \"The Transmission\"—consisted of the public reading of the poem by composer and musician Robert Ashley, recorded and simultaneously transmitted to several other cities. The poem was inscribed on a sculptural magnetic disk which had been vacuum-sealed until the event's commencement, and was reportedly (although not actually) programmed to erase itself upon exposure to air. Contrary to numerous colourful reports, neither this disk nor the diskettes embedded in the artist's book were ever actually hacked in any strict sense.\n\nAcademic researcher Matthew Kirschenbaum has reported that a pirated text of the poem was released the next day on MindVox, \"an edgy New York City-based electronic bulletin board\". Kirschenbaum considers Mindvox, an interface between the dark web and the global Internet, to have been \"an ideal initial host\". The text spread rapidly from that point on, first on FTP servers and anonymous mailers and later via USENET and listserv email. Since Gibson did not use email at the time, fans sent copies of the pirated text to his fax machine.\n\nThe precise manner in which the text was obtained for MindVox is unclear, although the initial custodian of the text, known only as \"Templar\" attached to it an introductory note in which he claimed credit. Begos claimed that a troupe of New York University students representing themselves as documentarians attended The Transmission and made a videotape recording of the screen as it displayed the text as an accompaniment of Jillette's reading. Kirschenbaum speculates that this group included the offline persona of Templar or one of his associates. According to this account, ostensibly endorsed by Templar in a post to Slashdot in February 2000, the students then transcribed the poem from the tape and within hours had uploaded it to MindVox. However, according to a dissenting account by hacktivist and MindVox co-founder Patrick K. Kroupa, subterfuge prior to The Transmission elicited a betrayal of trust which yielded the uploaders the text. Kirschenbaum declined to elaborate on the specifics of the Kroupa conjecture, which he declared himself \"not at liberty to disclose\".\n\nOn December 9, 2008 (the sixteenth anniversary of the original Transmission), \"The Agrippa Files\", working with a scholarly team at the University of Maryland, released an emulated run of the entire poem (derived from an original diskette loaned by a collector) and an hour's worth of \"bootleg\" footage shot covertly at the Americas Society (the source of the text that was posted on MindVox).\n\nSince its debut in 1992, the mystery of \"Agrippa\" remained hidden for 20 years. Although many had tried to hack the code and decrypt the program, the uncompiled source code was lost long ago. Alan Liu and his team at \"The Agrippa Files\" created an extensive website with tools and resources to crack the Agrippa Code. They collaborated with Matthew Kirschenbaum at the Maryland Institute for Technology in the Humanities and the Digital Forensics Lab, and Quinn DuPont, a PhD student of cryptography from the University of Toronto, in calling for the aid of cryptographers to figure out how the program works by creating \"Cracking the Agrippa Code: The Challenge\", which enlisted participants to solve the intentional scrambling of the poem in exchange for prizes. The code was successfully cracked by Robert Xiao in late July 2012.\n\nThere is no encryption algorithm present in the Agrippa binary; consequently, the visual encryption effect that displays when the poem has finished is a ruse. The visual effect is the result of running the decrypted ciphertext (in memory) through the re-purposed bit-scrambling decryption algorithm, and then abandoning the text in memory. Only the fake genetic code is written back to disk.\n\nThe encryption resembles the RSA algorithm. This algorithm encodes data in 3-byte blocks. First, the each byte is permuted through an 8-position permutation, then the bits are split into two 12-bit integers (by taking the low 4 bits of the second byte and the 8 bits of the first byte as the first 12-bit integer, and the 8 bits of the third byte and the 4 high bits of the second integer as the second 12-bit integer). Each is individually encrypted by taking them to the 3491st power, mod 4097; the bits are then reassembled into 3 bytes. The encrypted text is then stored in a string variable as part of the program. To shroud the would-be visible and noticeable text it is compressed with the simple Lzw before final storage. As the Macintosh Common Lisp compiler compresses the main program code into the executable, this was not that necessary.\n\nIn order to prevent a second running of the program it corrupts itself when run. The program simply overwrites itself with a 6000 byte long DNA-like code at a certain position. Archival documents suggest that the original plan was to use a series of ASCII 1's to corrupt the binary, but at some point in development a change was made to use fake genetic code, in keeping with the visual motifs in the book. The genetic code has a codon entropy of 5.97 bits/codon, much higher than any natural DNA sequence known. However, the ciphertext was not overwritten.\n\n\nThe book was published in 1992 in two limited editions—Deluxe and Small—by Kevin Begos Jr. Publishing, New York City. The deluxe edition came in a 16 by 21½-inch (41 cm × 55 cm) metal mesh case sheathed in Kevlar (a polymer used to make bulletproof vests) and designed to look like a buried relic. Inside is a book of 93 ragged and charred pages sewn by hand and bound in stained and singed linen by Karl Foulkes; the book gives the impression of having survived a fire; it was described by Peter Schwenger as \"a black box recovered from some unspecified disaster.\" The edition includes pages of DNA sequences set in double columns of 42 lines each like the Gutenberg Bible, and copperplate aquatint etchings by Ashbaugh editioned by Peter Pettingill on Fabriano Tiepolo paper. The monochromatic etchings depict stylised chromosomes, a hallmark of Ashbaugh's work, accompanied by imagery of a pistol, camera or in some instances simple line drawings—all allusions to Gibson's contribution.\n\nThe deluxe edition was set in Monotype Gill Sans at Golgonooza Letter Foundry, and printed on Rives heavyweight text by Begos and the Sun Hill Press. The final 60 pages of the book were then fused together, with a hollowed-out section cut into the centre, containing the self-erasing diskette on which the text of Gibson's poem was encrypted. The encryption was the work of a pseudonymous computer programmer, \"BRASH\", assisted by Electronic Frontier Foundation founders John Perry Barlow and John Gilmore. The deluxe edition was originally priced at US$1500 (later $2000), and each copy is unique to some degree because of handmade or hand-finished elements.\n\nThe small edition was sold for $450; like the deluxe edition, it was set in Monotype Gill Sans, but in single columns. It was printed on Mohawk Superfine text by the Sun Hill Press, with the reproduction of the etchings printed on a Canon laser printer. The edition was then Smythe sewn at Spectrum Bindery and enclosed in a solander box. A bronze-boxed collectors' copy was also released, and retailed at $7,500.\n\nFewer than 95 deluxe editions of \"Agrippa\" are extant, although the exact number is unknown and is the source of considerable mystery. The Victoria and Albert Museum possesses a deluxe edition, numbered 4 of 10. A publicly accessible copy of the deluxe edition is available at the Rare Books Division of the New York Public Library and a small copy resides at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo, Michigan, while the Frances Mulhall Achilles Library at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City hosts a promotional prospectus. The Victoria and Albert Museum's copy was first exhibited in a display entitled \"The Book and Beyond\", held in the Museum's 20th Century Gallery from April to October 1995. The same copy was subsequently also included in a V&A display entitled \"Digital Pioneers\", from 2009–2010. Another copy of the book was exhibited in the 2003–2004 exhibition \"Ninety from the Nineties\" at the New York Public Library. Gibson at one point claimed never to have seen a copy of the printed book, spurring speculation that no copies had actually been made. Many copies have since been documented, and Gibson's signature was noted on the copy held by the New York Public Library. In 2011, the Bodleian Library's Special Collections Department at the University of Oxford acquired Kevin Begos' copy of Agrippa, as well as the archive of Begos' papers related to the work.\n\nThe construction of the book and the subject matter of the poem within it share a metaphorical connection in the decay of memory. In this light, critic Peter Schwenger asserts that \"Agrippa\" can be understood as organized by two ideas: the death of Gibson's father, and the disappearance or absence of the book itself. In this sense, it instantiates the ephemeral nature of all text.\n\nThe poem is a detailed description of several objects, including a photo album and the camera that took the pictures in it, and is essentially about the nostalgia that the speaker, presumably Gibson himself, feels towards the details of his family's history: the painstaking descriptions of the houses they lived in, the cars they drove, and even their pets.\n\nIn its original form, the text of the poem was supposed to fade from the page and, in Gibson's own words, \"eat itself\" off of the diskette enclosed with the book. The reader would, then, be left with only the memory of the text, much like the speaker is left with only the memory of his home town and his family after moving to Canada from South Carolina, in the course of the poem (as Gibson himself did during the Vietnam War).\n\nThe poem contains a motif of \"the mechanism\", described as \"Forever / Dividing that from this\", and which can take the form of the camera or of the ancient gun that misfires in the speaker's hands. Technology, \"the mechanism\", is the agent of memory, which transforms subjective experience into allegedly objective records (photography). It is also the agent of life and death, one moment dispensing lethal bullets, but also likened to the life-giving qualities of sex. Shooting the gun is \"[l]ike the first time you put your mouth / on a woman\".\n\nThe poem is, then, not merely about memory, but how memories are formed from subjective experience, and how those memories compare to mechanically-reproduced recordings. In the poem, \"the mechanism\" is strongly associated with recording, which can replace subjective experience. Insomuch as memories constitute our identities, \"the mechanism\" thus represents the destruction of the self via recordings. Hence both cameras, as devices of recording, and guns, as instruments of destruction, are part of the same mechanism—dividing \"that\" (memory, identity, life) from \"this\" (recordings, anonymity, death).\n\n\"Agrippa\" was extremely influential—as a sigil for the artistic community to appreciate the potential of electronic media—for the extent to which it entered public consciousness. It caused a fierce controversy in the art world, among museums and among libraries. It challenged established notions of permanence of art and literature, and, as Ashbaugh intended, raised significant problems for archivists seeking to preserve it for the benefit of future generations. \"Agrippa\" was also used as the key of a book cipher in the Cicada 3301 mystery.\n\n\"Agrippa\" was particularly well received by critics, with digital media theorist Peter Lunenfeld describing it in 2001 as \"one of the most evocative hypertexts published in the 1990s\". Professor of English literature John Johnson has claimed that the importance of \"Agrippa\" stems not only from its \"foregrounding of mediality in an assemblage of texts\", but also from the fact that \"media in this work are explicitly as passageways to the realm of the dead\". English Professor Raymond Malewitz argues that \"the poem's stanzas form a metaphorical DNA fingerprint that reveals Gibson's life to be, paradoxically, a novel repetition of his father's and grandfather's lives.\" \"The Cambridge History of Twentieth-Century English Literature\", which described the poem as \"a mournful text\", praised \"Agrippa\"'s inventive use of digital format. However, academic Joseph Tabbi remarked in a 2008 paper that \"Agrippa\" was among those works that are \"canonized before they have been \"read\", resisted, and reconsidered among fellow authors within an institutional environment that persists in time and finds outlets in many media\".\n\nIn a lecture at the exhibition of \"Agrippa\" at the Center for Book Arts in New York City, semiotician Marshall Blonsky of New York University drew an allusion between the project and the work of two French literary figures—philosopher Maurice Blanchot (author of \"The Absence of the Book\"), and poet Stéphane Mallarmé, a 19th-century forerunner of semiotics and deconstruction. In response to Blonsky's analysis that \"[t]he collaborators in \"Agrippa\" are responding to a historical condition of language, a modern skepticism about it\", Gibson disparagingly commented \"Honest to God, these academics who think it's all some sort of big-time French philosophy—that's a scam. Those guys worship Jerry Lewis, they get our pop culture all wrong.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20859565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20859565", "title": "Beth Alpha", "text": "Beth Alpha\n\nBeth Alpha (; \"Bet Alpha\", \"Bet Alfa\") is a sixth-century AD synagogue located at the foot of the northern slopes of the Gilboa mountains near Beit She'an, Israel. It is now part of Bet Alfa Synagogue National Park and managed by the Israel Nature and Parks Authority. \n\nThe Beth Alpha synagogue was uncovered in 1928 by members of the nearby Kibbutz Hefzibah, who stumbled upon the synagogue's extensive mosaic floors during irrigation construction. Excavations began in 1929 under the auspices of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and were led by Israeli archaeologist, Eleazar Sukenik. A secondary round of excavations, sponsored by the Israel Antiquities Authority in 1962, further explored the residential structures surrounding the synagogue.\n\nIn addition, a hoard of 36 Byzantine coins were found in a shallow depression in the floor apse.\n\nArchitectural remains from the Beth Alpha synagogue indicate that the synagogue once stood as two-story basilical building and contained a courtyard, vestibule, and prayer hall. The first floor of the prayer hall consisted of a central nave measuring 5.4 meters wide, the apse, which served as the resting place for the Torah Ark, the bimah, the raised platform upon which the Torah would have been read, and benches. The Torah Ark within the apse was aligned southwest, in the direction of Jerusalem.\n\n The northern entryway features two dedicatory inscriptions in Aramaic and Greek. Although partially destroyed, the Aramaic inscription indicates that the synagogue was built during the reign of Roman Emperor Justinus, probably Justin I (518–527 CE), and was funded by communal donations. The Greek inscription thanks artisans \"Marianos and his son Hanina\", whom were also listed as the artisans of the nearby Beth Shean synagogue. The inscriptions are flanked on either side by a lion and a buffalo, who serve as the synagogue's symbolic guardians.\n\n The northern panel depicts the \"Binding of Isaac\" (Genesis 22: 1–18). To the right, Abraham is depicted dangling Isaac over the fiery altar as he raises his hand to perform the sacrifice. In the center, God, symbolized by the small fire- encircled hand appearing in the upper center, instructs Abraham to sacrifice a nearby ram instead of Isaac. The hand of God is aptly labeled with \"al tishlah\" or \"do not raise\", taken from God's command to the angel that Abraham not \"raise his hand against the boy [Isaac]\" (Genesis 22:12). In the lower center of the composition, immediately below the hand of God, the ram that served as Isaac's substitute is positioned standing sideways, trapped in the nearby thicket. The odd positioning of the ram may perhaps be a convention the artists used to convey the distance that the Bible says separated Abraham and Isaac, from the two servant boys (Genesis 22:5), who accompanied Abraham and Isaac on their journey, and are depicted standing to the left. All the figures in the scene, except for the two servants, are identified with Hebrew labels.\n\nThe iconographic significance of the \"Binding of Isaac\" is unclear. There is a wide variety of opinions, with some scholars seeing this narrative as an affirmation of God's mercy, others as symbolic of his continuing covenant with Israel, and others as embodying the rabbinic notion of \"zechut avot\" or the merit of the fathers. In contemporaneous Christian church art, where the \"Binding of Isaac\" was also a popular theme, the narrative was seen as a typological pre-figuration for the crucifixion.\n\n The central panel features a Jewish adaptation of the Greco-Roman zodiac. The zodiac consists of two concentric circles, with the twelve zodiac signs appearing in the outer circle, and Helios, the Greco-Roman sun god, appearing in the inner circle. The outer circle consists of twelve panels, each of which correspond to one of the twelve months of the year and contain the appropriate Greco-Roman zodiac sign. Female busts symbolizing the four seasons appear in the four corners immediately outside the zodiac. In the center, Helios appears with his signature Greco-Roman iconographic elements such as the fiery crown of rays adorning his head and the highly stylized quadriga or four-horse-drawn chariot. The background is decorated with a crescent shaped moon and stars. As in the \"Binding of Isaac\" panel, the zodiac symbols and seasonal busts are labeled with their corresponding Hebrew names.\n\nThis zodiac wheel, along with other similar examples found in contemporaneous synagogues throughout Israel such as Naaran, Susiya, Hamat Tiberias, Huseifa, and Sepphoris, rest at the center of a scholarly debate regarding the relationship between Judaism and general Greco-Roman culture in late-antiquity. Some interpret the popularity that the zodiac maintains within synagogue floors as evidence for its Judaization and adaptation into the Jewish calendar and liturgy. Others see it as representing the existence of a \"non-Rabbinic\" or a mystical and Hellenized form of Judaism that embraced the astral religion of Greco-Roman culture.\n\nThe southern panel, which was laid before the synagogue's Torah Shrine, is a liturgically oriented scene that emphasizes the centrality of the Torah Shrine. The Torah Shrine stands at the center of the composition and is depicted with a gabled roof. The Torah Shrine is decorated with ornamented panels featuring diamonds and squares. The floating conch shell seen in the center of the roof, is a stylized representation of the Torah Shrine's inset arch. A hanging lamp is suspended from the gable of the roof. As a symbolic marker of its importance, the lower register of the Torah Shrine is flanked by two roaring lions and is surrounded by Jewish ritual objects such as the lulav, etrog, shofar, and incense shovel. Two birds flank the gabled roof in the upper register of the Torah Shrine.\nTwo large seven-branched Menorot candelabras stand on either of the Torah shrine. The base and branches of the two Menorot are not identical in form; the right-hand Menorah has an upright base, while the left-hand Menorah has two crescent shaped legs and one upright leg. Lastly, the entire scene is framed by the two pulled back curtains, which served to demarcate the sacred space of the Torah Shrine.\n\nThe presence of the Menorah, which originally stood in the Jerusalem Temple, comes to highlight the continuing importance that the Jerusalem Temple occupied in the development of the synagogue. Additionally, the Menorah also maintained a practical function, as the primary light source for the area around the Torah Shrine. Sukenik believed that the two Menorot depicted flanking the Torah Shrine in this scene, likely stood adjacent to the Torah Shrine within the actual Beth Alpha synagogue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5061252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5061252", "title": "Black is beautiful", "text": "Black is beautiful\n\nBlack is beautiful is a cultural movement that was started in the US in the 1960s by African Americans. It later spread beyond the United States, most prominently in the writings of the Black Consciousness Movement of Steve Biko in South Africa.\n\nIt aims to dispel the racist notion that black people's natural features such as skin color, facial features and hair are inherently ugly. John Rock was long thought to be the first to coin the phrase \"black is beautiful\" — during a speech in 1858—but historical records indicate he never actually used the specific phrase on that day. The movement also encouraged men and women to stop trying to eliminate African-identified traits by straightening their hair and attempting to lighten or bleach their skin.\n\nThis movement began in an effort to counteract the racist notion in American culture that features typical of Blacks were less attractive or desirable than those of Whites. Research indicates that the idea of blackness being ugly is highly damaging to the psyche of African Americans, manifesting itself as internalized racism. This idea made its way into black communities themselves and led to practices such as paper bag parties: social events which discriminated against dark-skinned African-Americans by only admitting lighter-skinned individuals.\n\nWhile the Black is Beautiful movement started in the 1960s, this fight for equal rights and a positive perception of the African American body starts much earlier in American history. The reason this moment took form was because the media and society as a whole had a negative perception of the African American body as suitable only for slave status. The Black is Beautiful movement was based around a fight for an equal perception of the black body to help undo all the negative ideas brought about by a history based in white supremacy.\n\nProving that Black is Beautiful has bled into fashion, where the idea is that dressing with sophistication in mind allows for one to command automatic respect from those around them. This is best exemplified in Black Dandyism, a male fashion movement best described through Monica Miller's book \"Slaves to Fashion\". Since slaves were forbidden from wearing expensive or beautiful fabrics, dressing up the Black body has historically been a radical statement of self-hood and equality. Black Dandyism has morphed over the years, moving from simply dressing sharply in the fashion of the times to what is now the combination of dressing sharply and loud, African-inspired prints and colors that subvert notions of traditional masculinity.\n\n"}
{"id": "5826415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5826415", "title": "Bookmark", "text": "Bookmark\n\nA bookmark is a thin marker, commonly made of card, leather, or fabric, used to keep the reader's place in a book and to enable the reader to return to it with ease. Other frequently used materials for bookmarks are paper, metals like silver and brass, silk, wood, cord (sewing), and plastic. Many bookmarks can be clipped on a page with the aid of a page-flap.\n\nAccording to new results of the research done on the history of bookmarks, there are indications that bookmarks have accompanied codices since their first emergence in the 1st century AD. The earliest existing bookmark dates from the 6th century AD and it is made of ornamented leather lined with vellum on the back and was attached with a leather strap to the cover of a Coptic codex (Codex A, MS 813 Chester Beatty Library, Dublin). It was found near Sakkara, Egypt, under the ruins of the monastery Apa Jeremiah. Further earliest bookmarks and remnants of them have been found in Coptic codices dating from the 1st to the 11th century and in Carolingian codices from the 8th to the 12th century.\n\nBookmarks were used throughout the medieval period, consisting usually of a small parchment strip attached to the edge of folio (or a piece of cord attached to headband). As the first printed books were quite rare and valuable, it was determined early on that something was needed to mark one's place in a book without causing its pages any harm. Some of the earliest bookmarks were used at the end of the sixteenth century.\n\nModern bookmarks are available in a huge variety of materials in a multitude of designs and styles. Many are made of cardboard or heavy paper, but they are also constructed of paper, ribbon, fabric, felt, steel, wire, tin, beads, wood, plastic, vinyl, silver, gold, and other precious metals, some decorated with gemstones.\n\nThe first detached, and therefore collectible, bookmarkers began to appear in the 1850s. One of the first references to these is found in Mary Russell Mitford's \"Recollections of a Literary Life\" (1852): \"I had no marker and the richly bound volume closed as if instinctively.\" Note the abbreviation of 'bookmarker' to 'marker'. The modern abbreviation is usually 'bookmark'. Historical bookmarks can be very valuable, and are sometimes collected along with other paper ephemera.\n\nBy the 1860s, attractive machine-woven markers were being manufactured, mainly in Coventry, England, the centre of the silk-ribbon industry. One of the earliest was produced by J.&J. Cash to mark the death of Albert, Prince Consort, in 1861. Thomas Stevens of Coventry soon became pre-eminent in the field and claimed to have nine hundred different designs.\n\nWoven pictorial bookmarks produced by Thomas Steven, a 19th-century English silk weaver, starting around 1862, are called Stevengraphs. Woven silk bookmarks were very appreciated gifts in the Victorian Era and Stevens seemed to make one for every occasion and celebration. One Stevengraph read: \"All of the gifts which heaven bestows, there is one above all measure, and that's a friend midst all our woes, a friend is a found treasure to thee I give that sacred name, for thou art such to me, and ever proudly will I claim to be a friend to thee.\"\n\nMost 19th-century bookmarks were intended for use in Bibles and prayer books and were made of ribbon, woven silk, or leather. By the 1880s the production of woven silk markers was declining and printed markers made of stiff paper or cardboard began to appear in significant numbers. This development paralleled the wider availability of books themselves, and the range of available bookmarkers soon expanded dramatically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206682", "title": "Caricature", "text": "Caricature\n\nA caricature is a rendered image showing the features of its subject in a simplified or exaggerated way through sketching, pencil strokes, or through other artistic drawings.\n\nIn literature, a caricature is a description of a person using exaggeration of some characteristics and oversimplification of others.\n\nCaricatures can be insulting or complimentary and can serve a political purpose or be drawn solely for entertainment. Caricatures of politicians are commonly used in editorial cartoons, while caricatures of movie stars are often found in entertainment magazines.\n\nThe term is derived from the Italian \"caricare\"—to charge or load. An early definition occurs in the English doctor Thomas Browne's \"Christian Morals\", published posthumously in 1716.\n\nwith the footnote:\n\nThus, the word \"caricature\" essentially means a \"loaded portrait\". Until the mid 19th century, it was commonly and mistakenly believed that the term shared the same root as the French 'charcuterie', likely owing to Parisian street artists using cured meats in their satirical portrayal of public figures.\n\nSome of the earliest caricatures are found in the works of Leonardo da Vinci, who actively sought people with deformities to use as models. The point was to offer an impression of the original which was more striking than a portrait.\n\nCaricature took a road to its first successes in the closed aristocratic circles of France and Italy, where such portraits could be passed about for mutual enjoyment.\n\nWhile the first book on caricature drawing to be published in England was Mary Darly's \"A Book of Caricaturas\" (c. 1762), the first known North American caricatures were drawn in 1759 during the battle for Quebec. These caricatures were the work of Brig.-Gen. George Townshend whose caricatures of British General James Wolfe, depicted as \"Deformed and crass and hideous\" (Snell), were drawn to amuse fellow officers. Elsewhere, two great practitioners of the art of caricature in 18th-century Britain were Thomas Rowlandson (1756–1827) and James Gillray (1757–1815). Rowlandson was more of an artist and his work took its inspiration mostly from the public at large. Gillray was more concerned with the vicious visual satirisation of political life. They were, however, great friends and caroused together in the pubs of London.\n\nIn a lecture titled \"The History and Art of Caricature\", the British caricaturist Ted Harrison said that the caricaturist can choose to either mock or wound the subject with an effective caricature. Drawing caricatures can simply be a form of entertainment and amusement – in which case gentle mockery is in order – or the art can be employed to make a serious social or political point. A caricaturist draws on (1) the natural characteristics of the subject (the big ears, long nose, etc.); (2) the acquired characteristics (stoop, scars, facial lines etc.); and (3) the vanities (choice of hair style, spectacles, clothes, expressions, and mannerisms).\n\n\nThere have been some efforts to produce caricatures automatically or semi-automatically using computer graphics techniques. For example, a system proposed by Akleman et al. provides warping tools specifically designed toward rapidly producing caricatures. There are very few software programs designed specifically for automatically creating caricatures.\n\nComputer graphic system requires quite different skill sets to design a caricature as compared to the caricatures created on paper. Thus using a computer in the digital production of caricatures requires advanced knowledge of the program's functionality. Rather than being a simpler method of caricature creation, it can be a more complex method of creating images that feature finer coloring textures than can be created using more traditional methods.\n\nA milestone in formally defining caricature was Susan Brennan's master's thesis in 1982. In her system, caricature was formalized as the process of exaggerating differences from an average face. For example, if Prince Charles has more prominent ears than the average person, in his caricature the ears will be much larger than normal. Brennan's system implemented this idea in a partially automated fashion as follows: the operator was required to input a frontal drawing of the desired person having a standardized topology (the number and ordering of lines for every face). She obtained a corresponding drawing of an average male face. Then, the particular face was caricatured simply by subtracting from the particular face the corresponding point on the mean face (the origin being placed in the middle of the face), scaling this difference by a factor larger than one, and adding the scaled difference back onto the mean face.\n\nThough Brennan's formalization was introduced in the 1980s, it remains relevant in recent work. Mo et al. refined the idea by noting that the population variance of the feature should be taken into account. For example, the distance between the eyes varies less than other features such as the size of the nose. Thus even a small variation in the eye spacing is unusual and should be exaggerated, whereas a correspondingly small change in the nose size relative to the mean would not be unusual enough to be worthy of exaggeration.\n\nOn the other hand, Liang et al. argue that caricature varies depending on the artist and cannot be captured in a single definition. Their system uses machine learning techniques to automatically learn and mimic the style of a particular caricature artist, given training data in the form of a number of face photographs and the corresponding caricatures by that artist. The results produced by computer graphic systems are arguably not yet of the same quality as those produced by human artists. For example, most systems are restricted to exactly frontal poses, whereas many or even most manually produced caricatures (and face portraits in general) choose an off-center \"three-quarters\" view. Brennan's caricature drawings were frontal-pose line drawings. More recent systems can produce caricatures in a variety of styles, including direct geometric distortion of photographs.\n\nBrennan's caricature generator was used to test recognition of caricatures. Rhodes, Brennan and Carey demonstrated that caricatures were recognised more accurately than the original images. They used line drawn images but Benson and Perrett showed similar effects with photographic quality images. Explanations for this advantage have been based on both norm-based theories of face recognition and exemplar-based theories of face recognition.\n\nBeside the political and public-figure satire, most contemporary caricatures are used as gifts or souvenirs, often drawn by street vendors. For a small fee, a caricature can be drawn specifically (and quickly) for a patron. These are popular at street fairs, carnivals, and even weddings, often with humorous results.\n\nCaricature artists are also popular attractions at many places frequented by tourists, especially oceanfront boardwalks, where vacationers can have a humorous caricature sketched in a few minutes for a small fee. Caricature artists can sometimes be hired for parties, where they will draw caricatures of the guests for their entertainment.\n\nThere are numerous museums dedicated to caricature throughout the world, including the \"Museo de la Caricatura\" of Mexico City, the \"Muzeum Karykatury\" in Warsaw, the Caricatura Museum Frankfurt in Frankfurt, the Wilhelm Busch Museum in Hanover and the \"Cartoonmuseum\" in Basel. The first museum of caricature in the Arab world was opened in March, 2009, at Fayoum, Egypt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23349423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23349423", "title": "Cheryl (artist collective)", "text": "Cheryl (artist collective)\n\nCheryl is a four-member, semi-anonymous, cat-masked artist collective based in Brooklyn, New York, known for its video art, museum installations, participatory events and dance parties. Cheryl originated in July 2008 in the Park Slope neighborhood of Brooklyn. Since then, Cheryl has regularly produced thematic art/performance/dance events and installations in New York and in Europe.\n\nCheryl is best known for its thematic video work, often paired with an upcoming event of the same theme. Cheryl's work has been showcased through various installations and events with the Museum of Modern Art, MoMA PS1, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Brooklyn Museum, Palazzo Strozzi, the Jewish Museum (New York), and the Bruce High Quality Foundation among others.\n\nCheryl has been featured in/on \"The New York Times\", \"New York\" magazine, \"The New York Observer\", \"Out\" magazine, \"V\", \"W\", \"Time Out\", \"Black Book\" magazine, \"The Village Voice\", \"Flavor\" magazine (Paris), \"Glamour\" (France), NBC and RAI among other outlets.\n\nThe four elements of CHERYL are fake blood, glitter, shoulder pads, and hair extensions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43871397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43871397", "title": "Coin of the Year Award", "text": "Coin of the Year Award\n\nThe Coin of the Year Award (COTY) is an awards program founded and annually conducted by the American publisher Krause Publications of Iola, Wisconsin, and directed at the coin producing industry. Awards are given for numismatic design, artistic vision and craftsmanship. A panel of international judges chooses the coins from those issued two years prior to the year of the award.\n\nThe COTY was awarded for the first time in 1984, when coins issued in 1982 were assessed.\n\nAwards are given in ten categories, and three coins are selected in each category:\n"}
{"id": "13436716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13436716", "title": "Color engraving", "text": "Color engraving\n\nColor Laser Engraving is a marking process that uses MOPA fiber laser source to mark color on metal surface such as stainless steel, titanium, etc.\n\nMOPA refers to a configuration consisting of a master laser (or seed laser) and an optical amplifier to boost the output power. A special case is the master oscillator fiber amplifier (MOFA), where the power amplifier is a fiber device. In other cases, a MOPA may consist of a solid-state bulk laser and a bulk amplifier, or of a tunable external-cavity diode laser and semiconductor optical amplifier.\n\nColor Laser Engraving Machine\n"}
{"id": "56598812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56598812", "title": "David Locke Hall", "text": "David Locke Hall\n\nDavid Locke Hall is a highly decorated former Assistant United States Attorney, Naval Intelligence officer, and author.\n\nHall was born in California in 1955. He received a BA from Dartmouth College, an MBA from Yale, and JD and MA degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. After law school, Hall served as a law clerk to the Honorable Walter King Stapleton, United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.\n\nHall served for 23 years with the United States Department of Justice as an Assistant United States Attorney, retiring in 2013. He tried a large number of significant cases to verdict, including mobster Roy Stocker of the K&A Gang. Hall also prosecuted the Leath Cocaine Trafficking Organization, the leaders of which were involved in shooting Philadelphia Police Officer Donald McMullin. \n\nA significant focus of Hall's prosecutorial career was the investigation and prosecution of weapons proliferation and technology transfer offenders. In the 1990s, he prosecuted the Armaments Corporation of South Africa (Armscor), Kentron, Fuchs Electronics, and others for violations of the Arms Export Control Act during the apartheid era. The ARMSCOR case was a significant point of contention between the United States and the Republic of South Africa because ARMSCOR and Kentron were state-owned corporations. After lengthy negotiations, the dispute was resolved by the pleas of ARMSCOR, Kentron, and Fuchs to criminal charges and the payment of fines in excess of $11 million.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009, Hall investigated and prosecuted Amir Ardebili, an Iranian arms procurement agent working in Shiraz, Iran, acquiring components for the F4, F14, and other military aircraft, as well as microchips for use in phased array radar. The years long investigation resulted in an undercover meeting between Ardebili and U.S. agents on October 1 and October 2, 2007 in Tbilisi, Republic of Georgia, where Ardebili was arrested by Georgian authorities. He was extradited to the United States in January 2008. Ardebili pled guilty to violations of the Arms Export Control Act, International Emergency Economic Powers Act, smuggling, conspiracy and money laundering in May 2008. The Ardebili case is the subject of a book, Operation Shakespeare: The True Story of an Elite International Sting, written by John Shiffman.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2013, Hall led the undercover investigation and prosecution of Xiang Li, a Chinese software pirate. Xiang Li's Chengdu, China-based operation sold over $100 million in cracked software products with multiple high-tech applications, including telecommunications, explosive simulation, aerospace, satellite tracking, and flight simulation. The undercover investigation led to a meeting on Saipan between federal agents and Xiang Li in June 2011. At that meeting, Xiang Li delivered 20 gigabytes of proprietary data hacked from a defense contractor. Xiang Li was charged with trafficking in more than $100 million in stolen copyrighted software. He pled guilty in January 2013 and in June 2013 was sentenced to 12 years incarceration.\n\nHall has testified before the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Committee on Foreign Affairs, United States House of Representatives on \"Examining the Effectiveness of the Kingpin Designation Act in the Western Hemisphere.\" \n\nHall also served as the Special Prosecutor for the FBI Art Crime Team. During this time, he worked closely with FBI Special Agent Robert King Wittman. Hall negotiated the return of three stolen Norman Rockwell paintings from Brazil in 2001. In 2009, he led the successful undercover investigation and prosecution of Marcus Patmon, an art thief who sold stolen works by Picasso. Hall forfeited and returned to Iraq a collection of Mesopotamian artifacts in 2010. In 2011, Hall affected the return to Peru of a gold Moche monkey head (circa 300 A.D.) that had been looted from the royal tombs of Sipan. In 2013, Hall seized and forfeited the Rosenberg Diary, the long-lost diary of Alfred Rosenberg, Nazi propagandist and Reich Minister for the occupied eastern territories. The Rosenberg Diary is now part of the Holocaust Museum collection.\n\nHall served in the United States Navy and Navy Reserve as an intelligence officer for thirty years. Commissioned in 1984, he retired at the rank of Captain in 2015. He commanded three intelligence units and served with the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Office of Naval Intelligence, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in addition to numerous Navy commands. He was a third generation naval officer, his father having served as a Marine Corps officer with the Second Marine Division in World War II.\n\nThroughout his career, Hall has received numerous awards in recognition of his outstanding professional and military service including:\n\n2013- \"\"Meritorious Service Medal\" by the United States Navy\n\n2012- \"International Achievement Award\" by the Department of Homeland Security\n\n2010- \"SAFE Beacon Award\" by Saving Antiquities for Everyone \n\n2008- \"Excellence in Law Enforcement Award\" by the Department of Homeland Security\n\n2008- \"Defense Meritorious Service Medal\" by the Department of Defense\n\n2004- \"Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal\" by the United States Navy\n\n2000- \"Joint Service Commendation Medal\" by the Department of Defense\n\n1998- \"Director's Award for Superior Performance\" by the Department of Justice\n\n1997- \"FBI Director Citation\" by the Federal Bureau of Investigation\n\n2015- \"CRACK99: The Takedown of a $100 Million Chinese Software Pirate\" W. W. Norton\n\n2015- \"Stolen Cultural Property: A Risk Management Primer\" (chapter co-author), \"The Legal Guide for Museum Professionals (J. Courtney, ed.)\", Rowman and Littlefield\n\n1991- \"The Reagan Wars: A Constitutional Perspective on War Powers and the Presidency\"\" Westview Press\n\n"}
{"id": "3555307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3555307", "title": "Design management", "text": "Design management\n\nDesign management is a field of inquiry that uses project management, design, strategy, and supply chain techniques to control a creative process, support a culture of creativity, and build a structure and organization for design. The objective of design management is to develop and maintain an efficient business environment in which an organization can achieve its strategic and mission goals through design. Design management is a comprehensive activity at all levels of business (operational to strategic), from the discovery phase to the execution phase. \"Simply put, design management is the business side of design. Design management encompasses the ongoing processes, business decisions, and strategies that enable innovation and create effectively-designed products, services, communications, environments, and brands that enhance our quality of life and provide organizational success.\" The discipline of design management overlaps with marketing management, operations management, and strategic management.\n\nTraditionally, design management was seen as limited to the management of design projects, but over time, it evolved to include other aspects of an organization at the functional and strategic level. A more recent debate concerns the integration of design thinking into strategic management as a cross-disciplinary and human-centered approach to management. This paradigm also focuses on a collaborative and iterative style of work and an abductive mode of inference, compared to practices associated with the more traditional management paradigm.\n\nDesign has become a strategic asset in brand equity, differentiation, and product quality for many companies. More and more organizations apply design management to improve design-relevant activities and to better connect design with corporate strategy.\n\nThe multifaceted nature of design management leads to varied opinion, making it difficult to give an overall definition; furthermore, design managers have a broad range of roles and responsibilities. These factors, combined with a multitude of other influences such as the industry involved, company size, the market situation, and the importance of design within the organization's activities. As a result, design management is not restricted to a single design discipline and usually depends on the context of its application within an individual organization.\n\nOn an abstract level, design management plays three key roles in the interface of design, organization, and market. The three key roles are to:\n\n\nUnlike unique sciences such as mathematics, the perspective, activity, or discipline of design is not brought to a generally accepted common denominator. The historical beginnings of design are complex and the nature of design is still the subject of ongoing discussion. In design, there are strong differentiations between theory and practice. The fluid nature of the theory allows the designer to operate without being constrained by a rigid structure. In practice, decisions are often referred to as \"intuition\". In his \"Classification of Design\" (1976), Gorb divided design into three different classes. Design management operates in and across all three classes: product (e.g. industrial design, packaging design, service design), information (e.g. graphic design, branding, media design, web design), and environment (e.g. retail design, exhibition design, interior design).\n\nManagement in all business and organizational activities is the act of getting people together to accomplish desired goals and objectives efficiently and effectively. Management comprises planning, organizing, staffing, leading or directing, and controlling an organization (a group of one or more people or entities), or effort for the purpose of accomplishing a goal. Resourcing encompasses the deployment and manipulation of human resources, financial resources, technological resources, and natural resources. Towards the end of the 20th century, business management came to consist of six separate branches, namely human resource management, operations management (or production management), strategic management, marketing management, financial management, and information technology management, which was responsible for management information systems. Although it is difficult to subdivide management into functional categories in this way, it helps in navigating the discipline of management. Design management overlaps mainly with the branches marketing management, operations management, and strategic management.\n\nDesign managers often operate in the area of design leadership; however, design management and design leadership are interdependent rather than interchangeable. Like management and leadership, they differ in their objectives, achievements of objectives, accomplishments, and outcomes. Design leadership leads from creation of a vision to changes, innovations, and implementation of creative solutions. It stimulates communication and collaboration through motivation, sets ambitions, and points out future directions to achieve long-term objectives. In contrast, design management is reactive and responds to a given business situation by using specific skills, tools, methods, and techniques. Design management requires design leadership to know where to go and design leadership requires design management to know how to get there.\n\nDifficulties arise in tracing the history of design management. Even though design management as an expression is first mentioned in literature in 1964, earlier contributions created the context in which the expression could arise. Throughout its history, design management was influenced by a number of different disciplines: architecture, industrial design, management, software development, engineering; and movements such as system theory, design methodologies. It cannot be attributed directly to either design or to management.\n\nEarly contributions to design management show how different design disciplines were coordinated to achieve business objectives at a corporate level, and demonstrate the early understanding of design as a competitive force. In that context, design was merely understood as an aesthetic function, and the management of design was at the level of project planning.\n\nThe practice of managing design to achieve a business objective was first documented in 1907. The Deutscher Werkbund (German Work Federation) was established in Munich by twelve architects and twelve business firms as a state-sponsored effort to better compete with Great Britain and the United States by integrating traditional craft and industrial mass-production techniques. A German designer and architect, Peter Behrens, created the entire corporate identity (logotype, product design, publicity, etc.) of Allgemeine Elektrizitäts Gesellschaft (AEG), and is regarded as the first industrial designer in history. His work for AEG was the first large-scale demonstration of the viability and vitality of the Werkbund's initiatives and objectives and can be considered as first contribution to design management.\n\nIn the following years, companies applied the principles of corporate identity and corporate design to increase awareness and recognition by consumers and differentiation from competitors. Olivetti became famous for its attention to design through their corporate design activities. In 1936 Olivetti hired Giovanni Pintori in their publicity department and promoted Marcello Nizzoli from the product design department to develop design in a comprehensive corporate philosophy. In 1956, inspired by the compelling brand character of Olivetti, Thomas Watson, Jr., CEO of IBM, retained American architect and industrial designer Eliot Noyes to develop a corporate-wide IBM Design Program consisting of coherent brand-design strategy together with a design management system to guide and oversee the comprehensive brand identity elements of: products, graphics, exhibits, architecture, interiors and fine art. This seminal effort by Noyes, with his inclusion of Paul Rand and Charles Eames as consultants, is considered to be the first comprehensive corporate design program in America. Up to and during the 1960s, debates in the design community were focused on ergonomics, functionalism, and corporate design, while debates in management addressed Just in time, Total quality management, and product specification. The main proponents of design management at that time were AEG, Bauhaus, HfG Ulm, the British Design Council, Deutscher Werkbund, Olivetti, IBM, Peter Behrens, and Walter Paepcke.\n\nThe work of designers in the 1960s was influenced by industry, as the debate on design evolved from an aesthetic function into active cooperation with industry. Designers had to work in a team with engineers and marketers, and design was perceived as one part of the product development process. In the early years, design management was strongly influenced by system science and the emergence of a design science (e.g. the \"blooming period of design methodologies\" in Germany, the US, and Great Britain), as its main contributors had backgrounds in architecture. Early discussions on design management were strongly influenced by Anglo-Saxon literature (e.g. Farr and Horst Rittel), methodological studies in Design Research (e.g. HfG Ulm and Christopher Alexander), and theories in business studies. Design management dealt with two main issues:\n\nInstruments and checklists were developed to structure the processes and decisions of companies for successful corporate development. In this period the main contributors to design management were Michael Farr, Horst Rittel, HfG Ulm, Christopher Alexander, James Pilditch, the London Business School, Peter Gorb, the Design Management Institute, and the Royal Society of Arts. Debates in design disciplines were focusing on design science, design methodology, wicked problems, Ulm methodology, the relationship of design and business, new German design, and semiotic and scenario technique.\n\nIn the 1980s several managers realized the economic effect of design, which increased the demand for design management. As companies were unsure how to manage design, there was a market for consultancy; focusing on helping organizations manage the product development process, including market research, product concepts, projects, communications, and market launch phases—as well as the positioning of products and companies.\n\nThree important works were published in 1990: the \"Publication of Design Management – A Handbook of Issues and Methods\" by Mark Oakley (Editor), the book \"Design Management\" by French researcher Brigitte Borja de Mozota, and the \"Publication of Design Management – Papers from the London Business School\" by Peter Gorb (Editor). This new method-based design management approach helped to improve communication amongst technical and marketing managers. Examples of the new methods included trend research, the product effect triad, style mapping, milieus, product screenings, empiric design methods, and service design, giving design a more communicative and central role within organizations.\n\nIn the management community the topics of management theory, positioning strategy, brand management, strategic management, advertisement, competitive strategy, leadership, business ethics, mass customization, core competencies, strategic intent, reputation management, and system theory were discussed. Main issues and debates in design management included the topics of design leadership, design thinking, and corporate identity; plus the involvement of design management at the operational, tactical, and strategic levels.\n\nIn 1980 Robert Blaich, the senior managing director of design at Philips, introduced a design management system that regards design, production, and marketing as a single unit. This was an important contribution to the definition of design as a core element in business. At Philips Design, Stefano Marzano became CEO and Chief Creative Director in 1991, continuing the work of Robert Blaich to align design processes with business processes and furthering design strategy as an important asset of the overall business strategy.\n\nUpon being appointed corporate head of the IBM Design Program in 1989, Tom Hardy, initiated a strategic design management effort, in collaboration with IBM design consultant Richard Sapper, to return to the roots of the IBM Design Program first established in 1956 by Eliot Noyes, Paul Rand and Charles Eames. The intent was to reprise IBM's brand image with customer experience-driven quality, approachability and contemporary product innovation. The highly successful IBM ThinkPad was the first product to emerge from this strategy in 1992 and, together with other innovative, award-winning products that followed, served to position design as a strategic asset for IBM's brand turnaround efforts initiated in 1993 by newly appointed CEO Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.\n\nAs a consultant following his 22-year tenure at IBM, Hardy served as Corporate Design Advisor to Samsung from 1996-2003 where his integration of a brand-design philosophy and guiding principles, together with a comprehensive design management system, became a strategic corporate asset that significantly helped elevate Samsung's image from follower to global brand-design leader and dramatically increased brand equity value.\n\nDesign management has taken a more strategic role within business since 2000, and more academic programs for design management have been established. Design management has been recognized (and subsidized) throughout the European Union as a function for corporate advantage of both companies and nations. The main issues and debates included the topics of design thinking, strategic design management, design leadership, and product service systems. Design management was influenced by the following design trends: sustainable design, inclusive design, interactive design, design probes, product clinics, and co-design. It was also influenced by the later management trends of open innovation and design thinking.\n\nIn 1965 the term \"design management\" was first published in a series of articles in the \"Design Journal\". This series includes a pre-publication of the first chapter of the book \"Design Management\" by Michael Farr, which is considered as the first comprehensive literature on design management. His thoughts on system theory and project management led to a framework on how to deal with design as a business function at the corporate management level by providing the language and methodology to effectively manage it.\n\nThe term \"architectural management\" was coined by the architects Brunton, Baden Hellard and Boobyer in 1964 where they highlighted the tension and synergy between the management of individual projects (job management) and the management of the business (office management). Although they did not use the term \"design management\", they stressed identical issues; while the design community discussed methodologies for design. Christopher Alexander's work played an important role in the development of the design methodology, where he devoted his attention to the problems of form and context; and focused on disassembling complex design challenges into constituent parts to approach a solution. His intention was to bring more rationalism and structure into the solving of design problems.\n\nDesign policies have a history reaching back to the end of the 19th century, when design programs with roots in the crafts sector were implemented in Sweden (1845) and Finland (1875). In 1907 the Deutscher Werkbund (German Work Federation) was established in Munich to better compete with Great Britain and United States. The success of the Deutscher Werkbund inspired a group of British designers, industrialists and business people after they had seen the Werkbund Exhibition in Cologne in 1914, to found the Design and Industries Association and campaign for a greater involvement of government in the promotion of good design. In 1944 design management by managing design policies was used by the British Government. The British Design Council was founded by Hugh Dalton, president of the Board of Trade in the British wartime government, as the Council of Industrial Design with the objective \"to promote by all practicable means the improvement of design in the products of British industry\".\n\nGermany also realized the national importance of design during World War II. Between 1933 and 1945 Adolf Hitler used design, architecture and propaganda to increase his power; shown through the annual Reichsparteitage in Nürnberg on September 5. Heinrich Himmler coordinated several design activities for Hitler, including: the all-black SS-uniform designed by Professor Karl Diebitsch and Walter Heck in 1933; the Dachau concentration camp, designed by Theodor Eicke, and prototypes for other Nazi concentration camps; and the Wewelsburg redesign commissioned by Heinrich Himmler in 1944.\n\nSince the 1990s the practice of design promotion evolved, and governments have used policy management and design management to promote design as part of their efforts of fostering technology, manufacturing and innovation.\n\nIn America the Chicago industrialist Walter Paepcke, of the Container Corporation of America, founded the Aspen Design Conference after World War II as a way of bringing business and designers together – to the benefit of both. In 1951 the first conference topic, \"Design as a function of management\", was chosen to ensure the participation of the business community. After several years, business leaders stopped attending because the increased participation of designers changed the dialogue, focusing not on the need for collaboration between business and design, but rather on the business community's failure to understand the value of design.\n\nThe Royal Society of Arts (RSA) Presidential Medals for Design Management were instituted in June 1964. These were to recognize outstanding examples of design policy in organizations that maintained a consistently high standard in all aspects of design management, throughout all industries and disciplines. With these awards the RSA introduced the term \"design management\". In 1965 the first medals were given to four companies; Conran & Co Ltd, Jaeger & Co Ltd, S. Hille & Co Ltd and W. & A. Gilbey Ltd. in the category \"current achievements\" and two companies London Transport and Heal and Son Ltd. in the category \"long pioneering in the field of design management\". The medal selection committee included representatives of the RSA council and the faculty of Royal Designers for Industry.\n\nThe Design Management Institute (DMI) was founded in 1975 at the Massachusetts College of Art in Boston. Since the mid-1980s the DMI has been an international non-profit organization that seeks to heighten the awareness of design as an essential part of business strategy, and become the leading resource and international authority on design management. One year later the first conference was organized. The DMI increased its international presence and established the \"European International Conference on Design Management\" in 1997, and a professional development program for design management.\n\nIn 2007 the European Commission funded the Award for Design Management Innovating and Reinforcing Enterprises (ADMIRE) project for two years, as part of the Pro Inno Europe Initiative, which is the EU's \"focal point for innovation policy analysis, learning and development\". The aim was to encourage companies – especially small and medium enterprises (SMEs) – to introduce design management procedures to; improve their competitiveness, stimulate innovation, establish a European knowledge-sharing platform, organize the Design Management Europe Award, and to identify and test new activities to promote Design Management.\n\nTeaching design to managers was pioneered at the London Business School (LBS) in 1976 by Peter Gorb (1926-2013), the first Honorary Fellow of the DMI and a long-standing Fellow of the RSA. Gorb had previously embedded design management in the Burton Retail Group before joining LBS where he later founded the Design Management Unit in 1982 (in collaboration with Charles Handy) which he led for over 20 years. In 1979 his talk at the RSA entitled \"Design and its Use by Managers\" provided a background introduction to the wide scope of design within industry and commerce, an appreciation of the power of design as a management resource, and advocated the teaching of design to managers. Gorb produced two books based on seminars at the Design Management Unit at LBS, \"Design Talks\" (1988) with Eric Schneider and \"Design Management: Papers from the London Business School\" (1990). Gorb is also remembered as introducing the concept of Silent Design, design undertaken by non-designers, in an influential paper with Angela Dumas (1987).\n\nIn 1991 the University of Art and Design Helsinki founded the Institute of Design Leadership and Management and established an international training program. The International Design Management Conference was organized in the same year by them. In 1995 the Helsinki School of Economics (HSE), University of Art and Design Helsinki (TaiK), and University of Technology (TKK) cooperated to create the International Design Business Management Program (IDBM), which aims to bring together experts from different fields within the concept of design business management.\n\nThe first international research project on design management, the TRIAD research project, was initiated by Earl Powell, then president of DMI and the Harvard Business School in 1989. In the same year Earl Powell and Thomas Walton, Ph.D. developed the Design Management Review and DMI published the first issue. The publication is solely focusing on design management and has become the flagship publication of the discipline.\n\nDesign and design management have experienced different generations of theories. In its first generation design focused on the object, in the second on the process, and in the third on the user. Similar shifts can be seen in management and design management in almost parallel steps. For design management this has been illustrated by Brigitte Borja de Mozota, using Findeli's Bremen Model as a framework. Design management research organised itself into:\nIt is difficult to predict where design management research is heading.\n\nDifferent types of design management depend on the type and strategic orientation of the business.\n\nIn product-focused companies, design management focuses mainly on product design management, including strong interactions with product design, product marketing, research and development, and new product development. This perspective of design management is mainly focused on the aesthetic, semiotic, and ergonomic aspects of the product to express the product's qualities and to manage diverse product groups and product design platforms and can be applied together with a user-centered design perspective.\n\nIn market and brand focused companies, design management focuses mainly on brand design management, including corporate brand management and product brand management. Focusing on the brand as the core for design decisions results in a strong focus on the brand experience, customer touch points, reliability, recognition, and trust relations. The design is driven by the brand vision and strategy.\n\n\nMarket and brand focused organizations are concerned with the expression and perception of the corporate brand. Corporate design management implements, develops, and maintains the corporate identity, or brand. This type of brand management is strongly anchored in the organization to control and influence corporate design activities. The design program plays the role of a quality program within many fields of the organization to achieve uniform internal branding. It is strongly linked to strategy, corporate culture, product development, marketing, organizational structure, and technological development. Achieving a consistent corporate brand requires the involvement of designers and a widespread design awareness among employees. A creative culture, knowledge sharing processes, determination, design leadership, and good work relations support the work of corporate brand management.\n\n\nThe main focus of product brand management lies on the single product or product family. Product design management is linked to research and development, marketing, and brand management, and is present in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) industry. It is responsible for the visual expressions of the individual product brand, with its diverse customer–brand touch points and the execution of the brand through design.\n\nService design management deals with the newly emerging field of service design. It is the activity of planning and organizing people, infrastructure, communication, and material components of a service. The aim is to improve the quality of the service, the interaction between the service provider and its customers, and the customer's experience. The increasing importance and size of the service sector in terms of people employed and economic importance requires that services should be well-designed in order to remain competitive and to continue to attract customers. Design management traditionally focuses in the design and development of manufactured products; service design managers can apply many of the same theoretical and methodological approaches. Systematic and strategic management of service design helps the business gain competitive advantages and conquer new markets. Companies that proactively identify the interests of their customers and use this information to develop services that create good experiences for the customer will open up new and profitable business opportunities.\n\nCompanies in the service sector innovate by addressing the intangibility, heterogeneity, inseparability, and perishability of service (the IHIP challenge):\n\nService design management differs in several ways from product design management. For example, the application of international trading strategies of services is difficult because the evolution of service 'from a craftsmanship attitude to industrialization of services' requires the development of new tools, approaches, and policies. Whereas goods can be manufactured centrally and delivered around the globe, services have to be performed at the place of consumption, which makes it difficult to achieve global quality consistency and effective cost control.\n\nBusiness design management deals with the newly emerging field of integrating design thinking into management. In organisation and management theory, design thinking forms part of the Architecture / Design / Anthropology (A/D/A) paradigm which characterizes innovative, human-centered enterprises. This paradigm focuses on a collaborative and iterative style of work and an adductive mode of thinking, compared to practices associated with the more traditional Mathematics / Economics / Psychology (M/E/P) management paradigm. Since 2006, the term \"Business Design\" is trademarked by the Rotman School of Management; they define business design as the application of design thinking principles to business practice. The designerly way of problem solving is an integrative way of thinking that is characterized by a deep understanding of the user, creative resolution of tensions, collaborative prototyping, and continuous modification and enhancement of ideas and solutions. This approach to problem solving can be applied to all components of business, and the management of the problem solving process forms the core of business design management activity. Universities other than the Rotman School of Management are offering similar academic education concepts, including the Aalto University in Finland, which initiated their International Design Business Management (IDBM) program in 1995.\n\nEngineering Design Management is a knowledge area within engineering management. It represents the adaptation and application of customary management practices, with the intention of achieving a productive [engineering design process]. Engineering design management is primarily applied in the context of engineering design teams, whereby the activities, outputs and influences of design teams are planned, guided, monitored and controlled. The output of an engineering design process is ultimately a description of a technical system. That technical system may either be an artifact (technical object), production facility, a process plant or any infrastructure for the benefit of society. Therefore, the domain of engineering design management includes high volume, mass production as well as low-volume, infrastructure.\n\nUrban design management involves mediation among a range of self-interested stakeholders engaged in the production of the built environment. Such mediation can encourage a joint search for mutually beneficial outcomes or integrative development. Integrative development aims to produce sustainable solutions by increasing stakeholder satisfaction with the process and with the resulting urban development.\n\nConventional real estate development and urban planning activities are subject to conflicting interests and positional bargaining. The integrative negotiation approach emphasises mutual gains. The approach has been applied in land use planning and environmental management, but has not been used as a coordinated approach to real estate development, city design, and urban planning. Urban design management involves reordering the chain of events in the production of the built environment according to the principles of integrative negotiation. Such negotiation can be used in urban development and planning activities to reach more efficient agreements. This leads to integrative developments and more sustainable ways to produce the built environment.\n\nUrban design management offers prescriptive advice for practitioners trying to organise city planning activities in a way that will increase sustainability by increasing satisfaction levels. Real estate development and urban planning often occur at very different decision-making levels. The practitioners involved may have diverse educational and professional backgrounds. They certainly have conflicting interests. Providing prescriptive advice for differing, possibly conflicting, groups requires construction of a framework that accommodates all of their daily activities and responsibilities. Urban design management provides a common framework to help bring together the conventional practices of urban and regional planning, real estate development, and urban design.\n\nThe work on \"Integrative Negotiation Consensus Building\" and the \"Mutual Gains Approach\" provide a helpful theoretical framework for developing the theory of urban design management. Negotiation theory provides a useful framework for merging the perspectives of urban planning, city design, and real estate project proposals regarding production of the built environment. \"Interests\", a key construct in negotiation theory, is an important variable that will allow integrated development, as defined above, to occur. The path-breaking work of Roger Fisher and William Ury (1981), \"Getting to yes\", advises negotiators to focus on interests and mutual gains instead of bargaining over positions.\n\nArchitectural management can be defined as an ordered way of thinking which helps to realise a quality building for an acceptable cost or as a process function with the aim of delivering greater architectural value to the client and society. Research by Kiran Gandhi describes architectural management as a set of practical techniques for an architect to successfully operate his practice. The term \"architectural management\" has been in use since the 1960s. The evolution of the field of architectural management has not been a smooth affair. Architectural practice was merely considered a business until after the Second World War, and even then practitioners appeared to be concerned about the conflict between art and commerce, demonstrating indifference to management. There was apparent conflict between the image of an architect and the need for professional management of the architectural business. Reluctance to embrace management and business as an inherent part of architectural practice could also be seen in architectural education programmes and publications. It appears that the management of architectural design, as well as architectural management in general, is still not being given enough importance. Architectural management falls into two distinct parts: office or practice management and project management. Office management provides an overall framework within which many individual projects are commenced, managed, and completed. Architectural management extends between the management of the design process, construction, and project management, through to facilities management of buildings in use. It is a powerful tool that can be applied to the benefit of professional service firms and the total building processes, yet it continues to receive too little attention both in theory and in practice.\n\nDesign plays a vital role in product and brand development, and is of great economic importance for organisations and companies. Creativity and design in particular (as an activity: design skills, methods and processes) play a growing role in creating products and services with high added value to consumers. Design generates 50% of world export revenue in the creative industries' products (goods and services). The creative industry workforce is 3.1% of total employment in the European Union (EU), which creates a revenue that is 2.6% of the EU gross value. Creative industries have attained an unprecedented average annual growth rate of 8.7 per cent across the EU between 2000 and 2005.\n\nThe increasing importance of creative industries (and especially design) in knowledge-intense industries is reflected not only in the policies and studies on EU levels, but has initiated design and creative policies and programmes in the most advanced economies. Furthermore, design and creativity has been recognised on a regional and local level as a driving force for competitiveness, economic growth, job market, and citizen's satisfaction. The investment in creative and cultural industries are considered a significant component of EU growth in the Lisbon Strategy and the Europe 2020 strategy; and designers are increasingly involved in innovation issues.\n\nTo better understand the value of design and its role in innovation, the EU holds a public consultation on the basis of their publication \"Design as a driver of user-centred innovation\" and have published the mini-study \"Design as a tool for innovation\". The report highlights the importance of design in user-centred innovation and recommends the integration of design into the EU innovation policy. In addition to the design share in the export of all creative industry products, design can also have a positive impact on all business performance indicators; from turnover and profit to market share and competitiveness. Design management research results can be classified as follows:\n\nIf and how design management is applied in a company correlates with the importance and integration of design in the company, but depends also on industry type, company size, ownership for design and type of competitive competence. A research from the Danish Design Centre (DDC) led to the \"Danish Design Ladder\", which shows how companies interpreted and applied design in differing depth:\nThe research showed that companies that considered design on a higher level of the ladder were constantly growing. Additionally, the Danish Design Centre published an \"Evaluation of the Importance of Design\" in 2006, with the result that most companies considered design as a promoter for innovation (71%), as a growth potential for the company (79%), and to make products more user friendly (71%). With increasing importance of design for the company, design management also becomes more important.\n\nThe value of design can be leveraged if it is managed well. Research by Chiva and Alegre shows that there is no link between the level of design investment and business success, but instead a strong correlation between design management skills and business success. This means that efficient and effective design management is crucial for maximising the value of design. Effective design management increases the efficiency of operations and process management, has a significant positive impact on process management, improves quality performance (internal and external quality), and increases operating performance. To measure and communicate the value of design management, Borja de Mozota suggests adapting the Balanced Score Card model and structuring the values in the following four categories:\n\nThree different orientations for the choice of design management can be identified in companies. These orientations influence the perception of management and the responsibility of design managers within the organisation. The strategic orientations are; market focus, product focus and brand focus.\n\nDepending on the strategic orientation, design management overlaps with other management branches to differing extents:\n\nMarketing management: The concepts and elements of brand management overlap with those of design management. In practice, design management can be part of the job profile of a marketing manager, though the discipline includes aspects that are not in the domain of marketing management. This intersection is called \"brand design management\" and consists of positioning, personality, purpose, personnel, project and practice, where the objective is to increase brand equity.\n\nOperations management: At the operational level design management deals with the management of design projects. Processes and tools from operations management can be applied to design management in the execution of design projects.\n\nStrategic management: Due to the increasing importance of design as a differentiator and its supporting role in brand equity, design management deals with strategic design issues and supports the strategic direction of the business or enterprise. The debate on design thinking suggests the integration of design thinking into strategic management. Design thinking and strategic thinking have some commonalities in their characteristics, both are synthetic, adductive, hypothesis-driven, opportunistic, dialectical, enquiring and value-driven.\n\nInnovation management: The value of the coordinating role of design in new product development has been well documented. Design management can help to improve innovation management, which can be measured by three variables: it reduces time-to-market, by improving sources and communication skills and developing cross-functional innovation; it stimulates networking innovation, by managing product and customer information flows with internal (e.g. teams) and external (e.g. suppliers, society) actors; it improves the learning process by promoting a continuous learning process.\n\nLike the management of strategy, design can be managed on three levels: strategic (corporate level or enterprise wide), tactical (business level or individual business units), and operational (individual project level). These three levels have been termed differently by various authors over the last 50 years.\n\nOperational level\n\nOperational design management involves the management of individual design projects and design teams. Its goal is to achieve the objectives set by strategic design management. Success of good design management can be measured by evaluating the quality of operational design management outcomes. It includes the selection and management of design suppliers and encompasses the documentation, supervision, and evaluation of design processes and results. It deals with personal leadership, emotional intelligence, and the cooperation with and management of internal communications. Regular management functions, tools, and concepts can often be applied to the management of design on the operational level. It is implemented to achieve specific design objectives and manage the judgment of design proposals. It can help to build brand equity through the consistent creation and implementation of high-quality design solutions that best fit the brand identity and desired consumer experience, in the most efficient way. Depending on the type of company and industry, the following job titles are associated with this role: operational design manager, senior designer, team leader, visual communication manager, corporate design coordinator, and others.\n\nTactical level\n\nTactical design management addresses the organisation of design resources and design processes. Its goal is to create a structure for design in the company, bridging the gap between objectives set through strategic design management and the implementation of design on the operational level. It defines how design is organised within the company. This includes the use of a central body to coordinate different design projects and activities. It deals with defining activities, developing design skills and competencies, managing processes, systems and procedures, assigning of roles and responsibilities, developing innovative products and service concepts, and finding new market opportunities. Outcomes of tactical design management are related to the creation of a structure for design within the company, to build internal resources and competencies for the implementation of design. Depending on the type of company and industry, the following job titles are associated with this function: tactical design manager, design director, design & innovation manager, brand design manager, new product development (NPD) manager, visual identity manager, and others.\n\nStrategic level\n\nStrategic design management involves the creation of strategic long-term vision and planning for design, and deals with defining the role of design within the company. The goal of strategic design management is to support and strengthen the corporate visio by creating a relationship between the design and corporate strategy. It includes the creation of design, brand and product strategies, ensuring that design management becomes a central element in the corporate strategy formulation process. Strategic design management is responsible for the development and implementation of a corporate design programme that influences the design vision, mission, and positioning. It allows design to interact with the needs of corporate management and focuses on the long-term capabilities of design. Where strategic design management is applied, there is often a strong belief in the potential to differentiate the company and gain competitive advantage by design. As a result, design thinking becomes integrated into the corporate culture. Depending on the type of company and industry the following job titles are associated with this function: design strategist, strategic design manager, chief design officer, vice president design and innovation, chief creative officer, innovation design director, and others.\n\nDesign management is not a standard model that can be projected onto every enterprise, nor is there a specific way of applying it that leads to guaranteed success. Design management processes are carried out by humans with different responsibilities and backgrounds, who work in different industries and enterprises with different sizes and traditions, whilst having different target groups and markets to serve. Design management is multifaceted, and so are the different applications of and views on design management. The function of design management in an organisation depends on its tasks, authority, and practice.\n\nTask\n\nSimilar tasks can be grouped into categories to describe the job profile of a design manager. Different categories in management that encompass design were defined by several authors; those tasks occur on all three design management levels (strategic, tactical, and operational):\n\nAuthority and position\n\nThe authority and position of the design management function has a large influence on what the design manager does in his or her daily job. Kootstra (2006) distinguishes design management types by organisational function: design management as line function, design management as staff function, and design management as support function. Design management as a \"line function\" is directly responsible for design execution in the \"primary\" organisational process and can take place on all levels of the design management hierarchy. The main attributes for design managers in the line are authority over and direct responsibility for the result. Design management as a staff function is not directly responsible for design execution in the \"primary\" organisational process, but consults as a specialist on all levels of the design management hierarchy. The main attributes for design managers in this function are their limited authority and the need to consult line managers and staff. When the design process is defined as a \"secondary\" organisational process, design management is seen as \"supportive function\". In this function it has only a supportive character, classifying the design manager as a creative specialist towards product management, brand management, marketing, R&D, and communication. Various authors use different concepts to describe the authority and position of design management; they can be grouped as follows:\n\nToday, most developed countries have some kind of design promotion programme. The Design Management Institute has dedicated three issues to design policy development. Although initiatives promote design in different complexities, scopes and focuses, specific targets tend to address the following objectives:\n\nA very comprehensive analysis on the situation of design on national level in Britain is the Cox review. The chairman of the Design Council, Sir George Cox, published the Cox Review of Creativity in Business in 2005 to communicate the competitive advantage of design for the British industry.\n\nInnovation policies have been excessively focused on the supply of technologies, neglecting the demand side (the user). There have been several initiatives by the European Commission to support and research design and design management in recent years. However, a European-wide policy to support design has never been planned, due to the inconsistencies and differences in design policies in each nation. Nonetheless, there are currently plans to include design in the EU innovation policy.\n\nWhile design management had its origins in business schools, it has increasingly become embedded in the curriculum in design schools, particularly at the postgraduate level. Teaching design to managers was pioneered at the London Business School in 1976, and the first programme of design management at a design school was started in the 1980s at the Royal College of Art (RCA), DeMontfort, Middlesex, Staffordshire. Although, in the UK, some design management courses have not been sustainable, including those at the RCA, Westminster and Middlesex, other postgraduate courses have flourished including ones at Brunel, Lancaster and more recently the University of the Arts with each providing a specific point of view on design management.\n\nThe Design Leadership Fellowship at the University of Oxford was founded in 2005. In the same year the Stanford University Institute of Design founded the D-school, a faculty intended to advance multidisciplinary innovation. The Finnish Aalto University was founded in 2010 and is a merger of the three established Finnish universities – the Helsinki School of Economics (HSE), University of Art and Design Helsinki (TaiK), and University of Technology (TKK) – that had been cooperating on the IDBM design management program since 1995. Since 2006 the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts in Switzerland offers one of the few undergraduate studies in design management, completely taught in English.\n\n\"BusinessWeek\" annually publishes a lists of the best programmes that combine design thinking and business thinking (\"D-schools 2009\" and \"D-school Programmes to Watch 2009\"). The article \"Finland – World´s Innovation Hot Spot\" in the Harvard Business Review shows the interest of business leaders in the blended education of design and management. Business Schools (such as the Rotman School of Management, Wharton University of Pennsylvania and MIT Sloan Executive Education) have acted on this interest and developed new academic curricula.\n\nIntegrated education models are emerging in the academic world, a model which is referred to as T-shape and π-shaped education. T-shaped professionals are taught general knowledge in a few disciplines (e.g. management and engineering) and specific, deep knowledge in a single domain (e.g. design). This model also applies to companies, when they shift their focus from \"small T\" innovations (innovations involving only one discipline, like chemists) to \"big T\" innovations (innovations involving several disciplines, like design, ethnography, lead user, etc.). Like in education, this shift makes breaking down silos of departments and disciplines of knowledge essential.\n\nBooks\n"}
{"id": "8333387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8333387", "title": "Domenico Morelli", "text": "Domenico Morelli\n\nDomenico Morelli (7 July 182313 August 1901) was an Italian painter, who mainly produced historical and religious works. Morelli was immensely influential in the arts of the second half of the 19th century, both as director of the Accademia di Belle Arti in Naples, but also because of his rebelliousness against institutions: traits that flourished into the passionate, often patriotic, Romantic and later Symbolist subjects of his canvases. Morelli was the teacher of Vincenzo Petrocelli.\n\nHe was born to a poor family in Naples. His mother had hoped he would become a priest. His precocious talent was noted, and he was enrolled at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Naples in 1836–1846, where he befriended Francesco Altamura. His early works contain imagery drawn from the Medieval stories and Romantic poets such as Byron. In 1845, he painted a prize-winning \"L' angelo che porta le anime al Purgatorio dantesco\". In 1845–46, with the painting of \"Saul calmato da David\", and help from a generous patron, the lawyer Ruggiero, he won a fellowship to study in Rome. In 1847–48, he painted \"Il corsaio\" and \"Una sfida di Trovatori\", the prize-winning \"Bacio del Corsaro\", and \"Goffredo a cui appare l'angelo\". In 1847 at Rome, he painted a \"Madonna che culla il bambino, aiutata da San Giovanni\".\n\nMorelli had just returned to Naples, when the insurrections of 1848 erupted in Naples. He joined the protesters in the barricades on via Toledo, and was wounded, nearly killed, and briefly imprisoned. In a retrospective published after his death, Isabella Anderton would label Domenico as one of the \"warrior artists\" of Italy, a group which also included Filippo Palizzi, Telemaco Signorini, Stefano Ussi, and Francesco Saverio Altamura.\n\nReleased, Morelli returned to Rome. He painted \"Van der Welt in mezzo ai corsari sopra una via romita\" (1851) and \"Cesare Borgia a Capita in mezzo ad una folla di fanciulle\". In 1855 at the Florentine Exposition, he displayed his famous \"The Iconoclasts\".\n\nHe participated in the Universal Exposition in Paris in 1855. Later, in Florence, he was an active participant in the Macchiaioli discussions on Realism. Morelli claimed that it was these discussions that made his own work less academic and helped him to develop a freer style and to experiment with color. In this period, he is grouped into the school of Realism.\n\nIn 1857, he won a contest to design the decoration of the church of San Francesco of Gaeta, a project never completed. On a trip to Milan he painted \"Count di Ijara\", \"Pompeian Bath\", and a \"Madonna Addolorata\". By 1857, he had returned to Naples, painting a \"Torquato Tasso\". For the ceiling of the Royal chapel of Naples, he painted an \"Assumption of the Virgin\".\n\nHe was a member of an independent society, led by his friend Filippo Palizzi, to promote the liberal arts, called the \"Societa Promotrice\" in 1862. He was appointed consultant for new acquisitions of the Capodimonte art museum in Naples and, thus, had significant impact on the subsequent direction of the collections. In 1868, Morelli became a professor of painting at his old Academy, which now became the Royal Institute of Fine Arts in Naples. From that period onward, his interest turned to religious and mystical themes, drawn from mostly Christian, but also Jewish and Muslim traditions. Perhaps best known from this period is the \"Assumption\" on the ceiling of the Royal Palace in Naples. Morelli was also one of the collaborators for the illustrations of the Amsterdam Bible in 1895. From 1899 until his death, he was president of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Naples.\n\nMorelli late in life won many awards and distinctions. he was named honorary professor of the principal academies of Italy and Europe, commendatore of the Order of SS. Maurizio e Lazzaro and of the Order of the Crown of Italy, and cavaliere dell' Ordine civile di Savoia. In June, 1886, he was knighted a senator by the King.\nHe died on 13 August 1901 in Naples.\n\nAmong his many pupils were Giuseppe Costa, Francesco Paolo Michetti, Vittorio Matteo Corcos, Giuseppe Boschetto, Camillo Miola, Edoardo Tofano, Antonio Mancini and Enrico Salfi. Morelli designed the frescoes painted for the tomb of Giacomo Leopardi, located in the church of San Vitale at Fuorigrotta, but they were completed posthumously by his son-in-law, Paolo Vetri.\n"}
{"id": "40203214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40203214", "title": "Emamzadeh Shah Zeyd", "text": "Emamzadeh Shah Zeyd\n\nEmamzadeh Shah Zeyd () is an imamzadeh in Isfahan, Iran. It belongs to the early Safavid era. It is well known for paintings on its walls. These paintings are about the Battle of Karbala. Cavalries are in most of the paintings, but there are also other elements such as veiled women, dead bodies, birds, mosques and even flowers and nightingales. The painter of the artworks is Abbas Shahzadeh. He has tried to use the available space as much as he can.\n"}
{"id": "7034369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7034369", "title": "Emperor Norton in popular culture", "text": "Emperor Norton in popular culture\n\nJoshua Abraham Norton (c.1818 – January 8, 1880), also known as Norton I or Emperor Norton, was a celebrated citizen of San Francisco who in 1859 proclaimed himself \"Emperor of these United States and Protector of Mexico.\" Though he was generally considered insane, or at least highly eccentric, the citizens of San Francisco in the mid to late nineteenth century celebrated Norton's regal presence and his deeds. He continues to be a patron saint of the unusual and of eccentrics, and he is recognized as a Saint in the \"Principia Discordia\" (1970), the main text of the Discordian religion.\n\n\nRichard Miller's \"Sparkletack\" series of historical podcasts includes a celebrated 2005 episode, \"Emperor Norton.\"\n\n\n\n\nA pair of \"Emperor Norton Awards\" is made annually by Tachyon Publications and Borderlands books, for \"extraordinary invention and creativity unhindered by the constraints of paltry reason.\"\n\n1944\nLu Watters composed a piece, \"Emperor Norton's Hunch\", originally performed and recorded by his Yerba Buena Jazz Band.\n\n1950s\nRobert B. Aird, founding chairman of the neurology department of the University of California at San Francisco, composed a still-unperformed opera based on Norton's life.\n\n1981\nA one-act opera, \"Emperor Norton\", with music by Henry Mollicone and a libretto by John S. Bowman, received its premiere in 1981. It was performed by the West Bay Opera company in the San Francisco peninsula in the fall of 1990.\n\n1999\nAn opera, \"Emperor Norton of the U.S.A.\", with music by Jerome Rosen and a libretto by James Schevill, premiered in Davis, California in 1999. \n\n2003\nAn opera, \"I, Norton\", by Gino Robair, combines free and conducted improvisation with graphical and conventional scores, and has been performed by many ensembles in North America and Europe.\n\n2005\n\"Emperor Norton: A New Musical\", by Kim Ohanneson with songs by Marty Axelrod premiered at San Francisco's Dark Room Theater in December 2005 and ran there for three months, consistently selling out. A condensed and re-arranged version was presented in July 2006 at the San Francisco Theater Festival, and a revised production with many of the original cast and several new songs began a three-month run at the Shelton Theater in January 2007.\n\n2006\n\"The Madness of Emperor Norton I\", a song by the group The Kehoe Nation, appears on the group's 2006 album, \"Devil's Acre Overture\".\n\n2007\n\"The Emperor\", a song with lyrics by Z. Mulls and music by Ron Tintner.\n\n2008\n\"Emperor Norton\", a song by singer-songwriter Matthew Dinario (who records as The Short Wave Mystery) appeared on his 2008 album, \"Okey Dokey\".\n\n2010\nA musical, \"Norton: America's Forgotten Emperor\", with words and music by Bobby McGlynn, was performed at Denison University.\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\"Emperor Norton\", song by singer-songwriter Steven Crowley.\n\n\nThe independent record label, Emperor Norton Records, launched in 1996 and closed in 2004.\n\n\nDuring the San Francisco sequence of the 1956 film \"Around the World in Eighty Days\", an actor dressed in a costume resembling Emperor Norton's regalia and accompanied by two dogs, thought to be Bummer and Lazarus, is briefly seen leading a torchlight parade.\n\nThe San Francisco radio station KFOG referred to the Bay Bridge as \"the Emperor Norton\" during their morning traffic reports in the late 1980s [need confirmation of exact dates].\n\n\nThe author of a blog titled \"Strip Mining for Whimsy\" wrote under the name Joshua Norton II, Emperor of the United States, Protector of Mexico. The blog was taken down in March 2007.\n\nEmperor Norton is a character in the \"Neuromancer\" video game, an adaptation of the novel by William Gibson. He hangs out in the Matrix Restaurant and sells the player skill chips.\n\nIn the mod \"After the End\" for Paradox Interactive's \"Crusader Kings II\", Norton I is listed as a past ruler of the Empire of California.\n\nEmperor Norton may be played as an alternate leader for the American civilization with the use of a mod for Civilization VI.\n\nEmperor Norton is the Final Boss of Asymmetric Productions' Weird West themed RPG West of Loathing. He rules over Frisco and demands a crown before he'll allow a transcontinental railroad to be completed, and if none is provided, he curses the player character with an annoying status effect called Norton's Ant-Eye Virus, and hijacks a passenger train, forcing the player character to find a cure and then track down Emperor Norton for the final battle.\n\n\n\n\n\nJosé Sarria, a drag queen and early gay activist, proclaimed himself \"Her Royal Majesty, Empress of San Francisco, José I, The Widow Norton\" in 1964. As the Widow Norton, Sarria established the Imperial Court System, an international network of charitable organizations. Sarria died in August 2013, at the age of 89 or 90, and is buried at the foot of Emperor Norton's grave at Woodlawn Cemetery in Colma, California.\n\nIn the religion of Discordianism, Emperor Norton is considered a Saint Second Class, the highest spiritual honor attainable by an actual (non-fictional) human being. The Principia also says that the Goddess Eris / Discordia replied with Norton's name when questioned as to whether She, like Jehovah, had a Begotten Son. As reported in the \"Principia Discordia\", the Joshua Norton Cabal, a group of Discordians based in San Francisco, has as its slogan: \nIn official practice, the phrase is never translated out of Latin, except on certain holidays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56368047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56368047", "title": "European Confederation of Conservator-Restorers' Organisations", "text": "European Confederation of Conservator-Restorers' Organisations\n\nThe European Confederation of Conservator-Restorers' Organisations (ECCO or E.C.C.O.) is a European non-governmental professional organisation aimed at safeguarding cultural heritage through the use of conservation-restoration techniques.\n\nE.C.C.O. was established in 1991 by 14 European conservator-restorers' organisations. As of 2018 it represents close to 6,000 professionals within 22 European countries and 25 members organisations, including one international body (International Association of Book and Papers Conservators – IADA). E.C.C.O. represents the field of preservation of cultural heritage, both movable and immovable, with the mission:\nE.C.C.O. was founded on 14 October 1991 as European federation of restorers’ associations, with the aim of working together to develop a common European project for professional recognition of the conservator-restorers’ profession. New associations have joined as the European Union has expanded. E.C.C.O. has established principles and encouraged regulation to control access to the profession of the Conservator-Restorer, by working on professional standards and publishing guidelines for education and practice.\n\nProjects in which E.C.C.O. has participated include APEL (1998–2001), CON.B.E.FOR (1999–2001), and FULCO (1998), resulting in the Document of Vienna. E.C.C.O. was also involved in the production of the Document of Pavia (1997), the Namur Declaration (2015), and the Declaration of Berlin (2016). E.C.C.O. has produced various professional guidelines:\n\n\nSince the end of 2014, E.C.C.O. has followed a new strategic plan and its proposed implementation. Since April 2015, E.C.C.O. has been granted observer status to the plenary sessions of the Council of Europe Steering Committee on Landscape, Heritage and Culture (CDCPP). Several projects are running concerning the legal situation of Cultural Heritage and Conservator-Restorers throughout Europe, working towards mutual recognition of the members of E.C.C.O.’s member organizations in Europe. The international network in the field of cultural heritage and conservation-restoration is being extended and intensified working with ICCROM, ENCoRE, ICOMOS, Europa Nostra, IIC, ICOM-CC, and other organisations. As a member, E.C.C.O. is also involved in the activities of the network in the European Heritage Alliance 3.3. Since 2017, E.C.C.O. has participated in the European Commission project \"Voices of Culture – Skills, Training and Knowledge Transfer: Traditional and Emerging Heritage – Structured Dialogue\". In November 2016, the E.C.C.O. 20th Anniversary Barcelona book was published. \n\nThe following have been presidents of E.C.C.O.:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6921949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6921949", "title": "Fiction (magazine)", "text": "Fiction (magazine)\n\nFiction is a literary magazine founded in 1972 by Mark Jay Mirsky, Donald Barthelme, and Max Frisch. It is published by the City College of New York. This is not the same as the French science fiction magazine \"Fiction\", published from 1953-1990.\n\nIn its early years, \"Fiction\" was published in tabloid format and featured experimental work by such writers as John Barth, Jerome Charyn, Italo Calvino, Ronald Sukenick, Steve Katz, Russell Banks, Samuel Beckett, and J.G. Ballard. It later took the form of a more traditional paperback literary magazine, publishing short works by Reinaldo Arenas, Isaac Babel, Donald Barthelme, Mei Chin, Julio Cortázar, Marguerite Duras, Natalia Ginzburg, Clarice Lispector, Robie Macauley, Robert Musil, Joyce Carol Oates, Manuel Puig, and John Yau.\n\nThough the magazine ostensibly focuses on publishing fiction, as its name implies, it has recently also featured excerpts from Robert Musil's diaries and letters, as well as various writings with an autobiographical slant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "593634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593634", "title": "Folklore of India", "text": "Folklore of India\n\nThe folklore of India compasses the folklore of the nation of India and the Indian subcontinent. India is an ethnically and religiously diverse country. Given this diversity, it is difficult to generalize widely about the folklore of India as a unit.\n\nAlthough India is a Hindu-majority country, with more than three-fourths of the population identifying themselves as Hindus, there is no single, unified, and all-pervading concept of identity present in it. It is because of the flexible nature of Hinduism which allows various heterogeneous traditions, numerous regional cultures and even different religions to grow and flourish. Folk religion in Hinduism may explain the rationale behind local religious practices, and contain local myths that explain the existence of local religious customs or the rituals. These sorts of local variation have a higher status in Hinduism than comparable customs would have in religions such as Christianity or Islam. However, folklore as currently understood goes beyond religious or supernatural beliefs and practices, and compasses the entire body of social tradition whose chief vehicle of transmission is oral or outside institutional channels.\n\nThe folk and tribal arts of India speak volumes about the country's rich heritage. Art forms in India have been exquisite and explicit. Folk art forms include various schools of art like the Mughal School, Rajasthani School, Nakashi art School etc. Each school has its distinct style of colour combinations or figures and its features. Other popular folk art forms include Madhubani paintings from Bihar, Kangra painting from Himachal Pradesh and Warli paintings from Maharashtra. Tanjore paintings from South India incorporate real gold into their paintings. Local fairs, festivals, deities and heroes (warriors) play a vital role in this art form.\n\nSome famous folk and tribal arts of India include:\n\n\nIndia possesses a large body of heroic ballads and epic poetry preserved in oral tradition, both in Sanskrit and the various vernacular languages of India. One such oral epic, telling the story of Pabuji, has been collected by Dr. John Smith from Rajasthan; it is a long poem in the Rajasthani language, traditionally told by professional story tellers, known as Bhopas, who deliver it in front of a tapestry that depicts the characters of the story, and functions as a portable temple, accompanied by a \"ravanhattho\" fiddle. The title character was a historical figure, a Rajput prince, who has been deified in Rajasthan. \nVarious performing arts such as Garba and Dandiya Raas of Gujarat, Sambalpuri dance of Odisha, Chhau, Alkap and Gambhira of West Bengal, Bihu of Assam, Ghoomar of Rajasthan and Haryana, Bhangra and Gidda of Punjab, Dhangar of Goa, Panthi of Chhattisgarh, Kolattam of Andhra Pradesh, Yakshagana of Karnataka, Thirayattam of Kerala and Chang Lo of Nagaland derive their elements from myriads of myths, folktales and seasonal changes.\n\nThe Ramayana and the Mahabharata are the two greatest and most widely read epics of India. Other noteworthy collections of Indian traditional stories include the \"Panchatantra\", a collection of traditional narratives made by Vishnu Sarma in the second century BC. The \"Hitopadesha\" of Narayana is a collection of anthropomorphic fabliaux, animal fables, in Sanskrit, compiled in the ninth century.\n\nIndian folklorists during the last thirty years have substantially contributed to the study of folklore. Devendra Satyarthi, Krishna Dev Upadyhayaya, Prafulla Dutta Goswami, Kunja Bihari Dash, Ashutosh Bhatacharya and many more senior folklorists have contributed for the study of folklore. But it is during the 1970s that some folklorists studied in US universities and trained up themselves with the modern theories and methods of folklore research and set a new trend of folklore study in India. Especially, South Indian universities advocated for folklore as a discipline in the universities and hundreds of scholars trained up on folklore. A.K. Ramanjuan was the noted folklorist to analyse folklore from Indian context.\n\nStudy of folklore was strengthened by two stremas (sicsic); one is Finnish folklorist Lauri Honko and another is Peter J. Claus of American folklore. These two folklorists conducted their field work on Epic of Siri and led the Indian folklorists to the new folklore study. The Central Institute of Indian Languages has played a major role in promoting folklore studies in India to explore another reality of Indian culture.\n\nRecently scholars such as Chitrasen Pasayat, M. D. Muthukumaraswamy, Vivek Rai, Jawaharlal Handoo, Birendranath Dutta, P. C. Pattanaik, B. Reddy, Sadhana Naithani, P. Subachary, Molly Kaushal, Shyam Sundar Mahapatra, Bhabagrahi Mishra and many new folklorists have contributed in their respective field for shaping folklore study as a strong discipline in representing the people's memory and people's voice. Recently the National Folklore Support Center in Chennai has taken the initiative to promote folklore in public domain and bridging the gap of academic domain and community domain.\n\nIndian folk heroes like Rama, Krishna in Sanskrit epics and history and also in freedom movement are well known to every one. They have found a place in written literature. But in Indian cultural sub-system, Indian folk heroes are most popular. The castes and tribes of India have maintained their diversities of culture through their language and religion and customs. So in addition to national heroes, regional heroes and local folk and tribal heroes are alive in the collective memory of the people. Let's take examples of the Santhals or the Gonds. The Santhals have their culture heroes Beer Kherwal and Bidu Chandan. Gonds have their folk hero Chital Singh Chhatti. Banjara folk hero is Lakha Banjara or Raja Isalu.\n\nBut not only heroes, the heroines of Indian folklore have also significant contribution in shaping the culture of India. Banjara epics are heroine-centric. These epics reflect the \"sati\" cult.\n\nOral epics with heroic actions of heroes and heroines produce a \"counter text\", as opposed to the written texts. Therefore, the younger brother becomes hero and kill his elder brother in an oral epic, which is forbidden in classical epics. Folk heroes are some times deified and are worshipped in the village. There is a thin difference of a mythic hero and romantic hero in Indian folklore. In Kalahandi, oral epics are available among the ethnic singers, performed in ritual context and social context. Dr Mahendra Mishra, a folklorist, has conducted research on oral epics in Kalahandi, taking seven ethnic groups. Dr. Chitrasen Pasayat has made an extensive study of different folk and tribal forms of Yatra, like Dhanu yatra, Kandhen-budhi yatra, Chuda-khai yatra, Sulia yatra, Patkhanda yatra, Budha-dangar yatra, Khandabasa yatra, Chhatar yatra, Sital-sasthi yatra and examined the 'hero characters' of the local deities.\n\nIndian oral epics are found abundantly everywhere there are caste based culture. Prof. Lauri Honko from Turku, Finland with Prof. Vivek Rai and Dr K Chinnapa Gawda have conducted extensive field work and research on Siri Epic and have come out with three volumes on Siri epics. Similarly Prof. Peter J Claus has done intensive work on Tulu epics. Aditya Mallick on Devnarayan epic, Pulikonda Subbachary on Jambupurana, Dr JD Smith on Pabuji epic are some of the commendable work that have been drawn attention of the wider readership.\n\n\nIndia has a long history of board games. You hear about these from the times of the Mahabharata and the Mughal empire. Some of the popular board games that originated from Indian Traditional games include Chess (Chaturanga), Ludo (Pachisi) and Snakes and Ladders (Moksha-Patamu).\n\nRecently, Odisha, a state in eastern India, introduced a child-friendly programme called Srujan (creativity) in the primary schools. About 18 million children took part in four activities like story telling activities, traditional games, traditional art and craft and music and dance and riddles over a period of three years (2007–2010). The result is that while there are hundreds of varieties of folktales, the varieties of traditional games are limited. About three hundred traditional games both indoor and outdoor were commonly played and it was found that the traditional games contain mathematical knowledge (like counting, measurement, shapes and size, geometrical ideas and finally socialization through action). The traditional games are the best ways of teaching and learning. When these are applied in the primary schools, many teachers revealed that children know many games that the teachers have forgotten.\n\nIndoor board game like \"Kasadi\" ( a wooden board with 14 pits played with tamarind seed by two ormore than two girls in the domestic domain) was most popular and it is still not vanished from the society. Dr Mahendra Kumar Mishra, a folklorist and an educator has collected these games and has documented in video form.Besides other games in the domestic domain is the goat and the tiger and ganjifa. These were the forerunners of the card games of today. Ganjifa used to be circular painted stack of card like things which were played using certain rules.\n\nThe scientific study of Indian folklore was slow to begin: early collectors felt far freer to creatively reinterpret source material, and collected their material with a view to the picturesque rather than the representative.\n\nA. K. Ramanujan's theoretical and aesthetic contributions span several disciplinary areas. Context-sensitivity is a theme that appears not only in Ramanujan's cultural essays, but also appears in his writing about Indian folklore and classic poetry. In \"Where Mirrors are Windows,\" (1989) and in \"Three Hundred Ramayanas\" (1991), for example, he discusses the \"intertextual\" nature of Indian literature, written and oral...He says, \"What is merely suggested in one poem may become central in a 'repetition' or an 'imitation' of it. His essay \"Where Mirrors Are Windows: Toward an Anthology of Reflections\" (1989), and his commentaries in The Interior Landscape: Love Poems from a Classical Tamil Anthology (1967) and Folktales from India, Oral Tales from Twenty Indian Languages (1991) are good examples of his work in Indian folklore studies.\n\nRudyard Kipling was interested in folklore, dealing with English folklore in works such as \"Puck of Pook's Hill\" and \"Rewards and Fairies\"; his experiences in India led him to also create similar works with Indian themes. Kipling spent a great deal of his life in India, and was familiar with the Hindi language. His works such as the two \"Jungle Books\" contain a great deal of stories that are written after the manner of traditional folktales. Indian themes also appear in his \"Just So Stories\", and many of the characters bear recognisable names from Indian languages. During the same period, Helen Bannerman penned the now notorious Indian-themed tale of \"Little Black Sambo\", which represented itself to be an Indian folktale.\n\nAfter independence, disciplines and methods from anthropology began to be used in the creation of more in-depth surveys of Indian folklore.\n\nFolklorists of India can be broadly divided into three phases. Phase I were the British Administrators who collected the local knowledge and folklore to understand the subjects they want to rule. next were the missionaries who wanted to acquire the language of the people to recreate their religious literature for evangelical purpose. Third phase was the post independent period in the country where many universities, institutes and individuals started studying the folklore. the purpose was to search the national identity through legends, myths, and epics. In course of time Academic institutions and universities in the country started opening departments on folklore in their respective regions, more in south India to maintain their cultural identity and also maintain language and culture.\n\nAfter independence, scholars like Dr Satyendra, Devendra Satyarthi, Krishnadev Upadhayaya, Jhaberchand Meghani, Prafulla Dutta Goswami, Ashutosh Bhattacharya, Kunja Bihari Dash, Chitrasen Pasayat, Somnath Dhar, Ramgarib choube, jagadish Chandra Trigunayan and many more were the pioneer in working on folklore. Of course, the trend was more literary than analytical. It was during the 1980s that the central Institute of Indian Languages and the American Institute of Indian Studies started their systemic study on Folklore any after that many western as well as eastern scholars pursued their studies on folklore as a discipline.\n\nThe pioneer of the folklorists in contemporary India are Jawaharlal Handoo, Chitrasen Pasayat, Sadhana Naithani, Kishore Bhattacharjee, Anjali Padhi, Kailash Patnaik, VA Vivek Rai, late Komal Kothari, Raghavan Payanad, M Ramakrishnan, Nandini Sahu and many more. An emerging trend of new folklorists have emerged who are committed to understand folklore from Indian point of view than to see the whole subjects from the western model. Some of them are better prefer to understand folklore from the folklore provider and consultants who are the creator and consumers of folklore.User of folklore know what folklore is since their use folklore with purpose and meaning.But theoreticians see folklore from their theoretical angle. Ethics point of view, folklorist should learn from the folk as practicable as possible and folk should give the hidden meaning of folklore to the folklorist, so that both of their interpretation can help giving a new meaning to the item of folklore and explore the possibility of use of folklore in new socio-cultural domain.\n\nNow the National Folklore support Center, Chennai since last ten years has created a space for the new scholars who are pursuing the study of folklore with their commitment. One important breakthrough in the field of folklore is that it is no more confined to the study in the four wall of academic domain, rather, it has again found its space within and among the folk to get their true meaning.\n\nDr.Raghavanpayyanad is a major role in Indian folklore study he has written so many books about folklore, he is also an international face of Indian folkloristics both in English and Malayalam.\n\nIndia has a rich and varied tradition of folk music and numerous types of folk songs. Some traditional folk song genres have been recognized as Intangible Cultural Heritage listed by UNESCO. Among these traditions, a well-known musical and religious repertoire is known as Baul, which has become famous in the World Music scene. Among the most respected historical figures of the Baul tradition, Lalon Fakir and Bhaba Pagla are often mentioned. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25551068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25551068", "title": "God the Father in Western art", "text": "God the Father in Western art\n\nFor about a thousand years, in obedience to interpretations of specific Bible passages, pictorial depictions of God in Western Christianity had been avoided by Christian artists. At first only the Hand of God, often emerging from a cloud, was portrayed. Gradually, portrayals of the head and later the whole figure were depicted, and by the time of the Renaissance artistic representations of God the Father were freely used in the Western Church.\n\nGod the Father can be seen in some late Byzantine Cretan School icons, and ones from the borders of the Catholic and Orthodox worlds, under Western influence, but after the Russian Orthodox Church came down firmly against depicting him in 1667, he can hardly be seen in Russian art. Protestants generally disapprove of the depiction of God the Father, and originally did so strongly.\n\nEarly Christians believed that the words of Book of Exodus 33:20 \"Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man see Me and live\" and of the Gospel of John 1:18: \"No man hath seen God at any time\" were meant to apply not only to the Father, but to all attempts at the depiction of the Father.\nThe Hand of God, an artistic metaphor, is found several times in the only ancient synagogue with a large surviving decorative scheme, the Dura Europos Synagogue of the mid-3rd century, and was probably adopted into Early Christian art from Jewish art. It was common in Late Antique art in both East and West, and remained the main way of depicting the actions or approval of God the Father in the West until about the end of the Romanesque period. It also represents the \"bath Kol\" (literally \"daughter of a voice\") or voice of God, similar to Jewish depictions.\n\nHistorically considered, God the Father is more frequently manifested in the Old Testament, while the Son is manifested in the New Testament. Hence it might be said that the Old Testament refers more especially to the history of the Father and the New Testament to that of the Son. Yet, in early depictions of scenes from the Old Testament, artists used the conventional depiction of Jesus to represent the Father, especially in depictions of the story of Adam and Eve, the most frequently depicted Old Testament narrative shown in Early Medieval art, and one that was felt to require the depiction of a figure of God \"walking in the garden\" (Genesis 3:8).\n\nThe account in Genesis naturally credits the Creation to the single figure of God, in Christian terms, God the Father. However the first person plural in Genesis 1:26 \"And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness\", and New Testament references to Christ as Creator (John 1:3, Colossians 1:15) led Early Christian writers to associate the Creation with the Logos, or pre-existing Christ, God the Son. From the 4th century the church was also keen to affirm the doctrine of consubstantiality confirmed in the Nicene Creed of 325.\nIt was therefore usual to have depictions of Jesus as Logos taking the place of the Father and creating the world alone, or commanding Noah to construct the ark or speaking to Moses from the Burning bush. There was also a brief period in the 4th century when the Trinity were depicted as three near-identical figures, mostly in depicting scenes from Genesis; the Dogmatic Sarcophagus in the Vatican is the best known example. In isolated cases this iconography is found throughout the Middle Ages, and revived somewhat from the 15th century, though it attracted increasing disapproval from church authorities. A variant is Enguerrand Quarton's contract for the Coronation of the Virgin requiring him to represent the Father and Son of the Holy Trinity as identical figures.\n\nOne scholar has suggested that the enthroned figure in the centre of the apse mosaic of Santa Pudenziana in Rome of 390-420, normally regarded as Christ, in fact represents God the Father.\n\nIn situations, such as the Baptism of Christ, where a specific representation of God the Father was indicated, the Hand of God was used, with increasing freedom from the Carolingian period until the end of the Romanesque. This motif now, since the discovery of the 3rd-century Dura Europos synagogue, seems to have been borrowed from Jewish art, and is found in Christian art almost from its beginnings.\n\nThe use of religious images in general continued to increase up to the end of the 7th century, to the point that in 695, upon assuming the throne, Byzantine emperor Justinian II put an image of Christ on the obverse side of his gold coins, resulting in a rift which ended the use of Byzantine coin types in the Islamic world. However, the increase in religious imagery did not include depictions of God the Father. For instance, while the eighty second canon of the Council of Trullo in 692 did not specifically condemn images of The Father, it suggested that icons of Christ were preferred over Old Testament shadows and figures.\n\nThe beginning of the 8th century witnessed the suppression and destruction of religious icons as the period of Byzantine iconoclasm (literally \"image-breaking\") started. Emperor Leo III (717–741), suppressed the use of icons by imperial edict of the Byzantine Empire, presumably due to a military loss which he attributed to the undue veneration of icons. The edict (which was issued without consulting the Church) forbade the veneration of religious images but did not apply to other forms of art, including the image of the emperor, or religious symbols such as the cross. Theological arguments against icons then began to appear with iconoclasts arguing that icons could not represent both the divine and the human natures of Jesus at the same time. In this atmosphere, no public depictions of God the Father were even attempted and such depictions only began to appear two centuries later.\n\nThe Second Council of Nicaea in 787 effectively ended the first period of Byzantine iconoclasm and restored the honouring of icons and holy images in general. However, this did not immediately translate into large scale depictions of God the Father. Even supporters of the use of icons in the 8th century, such as Saint John of Damascus, drew a distinction between images of God the Father and those of Christ.\n\nIn his treatise \"On the Divine Images\" John of Damascus wrote: \"In former times, God who is without form or body, could never be depicted. But now when God is seen in the flesh conversing with men, I make an image of the God whom I see\". The implication here is that insofar as God the Father or the Spirit did not become man, visible and tangible, images and portrait icons can not be depicted. So what was true for the whole Trinity before Christ remains true for the Father and the Spirit but not for the Word. John of Damascus wrote:\n\"If we attempt to make an image of the invisible God, this would be sinful indeed. It is impossible to portray one who is without body:invisible, uncircumscribed and without form.\"\n\nAround 790 Charlemagne ordered a set of four books that became known as the Libri Carolini (i.e. \"Charles' books\") to refute what his court mistakenly understood to be the iconoclast decrees of the Byzantine Second Council of Nicaea regarding sacred images. Although not well known during the Middle Ages, these books describe the key elements of the Catholic theological position on sacred images. To the Western Church, images were just objects made by craftsmen, to be utilized for stimulating the senses of the faithful, and to be respected for the sake of the subject represented, not in themselves.\n\nThe Council of Constantinople (869) (considered ecumenical by the Western Church, but not the Eastern Church) reaffirmed the decisions of the Second Council of Nicaea and helped stamp out any remaining coals of iconoclasm. Specifically, its third canon required the image of Christ to have veneration equal with that of a Gospel book:\nWe decree that the sacred image of our Lord Jesus Christ, the liberator and Savior of all people, must be venerated with the same honor as is given the book of the holy Gospels. For as through the language of the words contained in this book all can reach salvation, so, due to the action which these images exercise by their colors, all wise and simple alike, can derive profit from them.\nBut images of God the Father were not directly addressed in Constantinople in 869. A list of permitted icons was enumerated at this Council, but images of God the Father were not among them. However, the general acceptance of icons and holy images began to create an atmosphere in which God the Father could be depicted.\n\nPrior to the 10th century no attempt was made to represent a separate depiction as a full human figure of God the Father in Western art. Yet, Western art eventually required some way to illustrate the presence of the Father, so through successive representations a set of artistic styles for the depiction of the Father in human form gradually emerged around the 10th century AD.\n\nIt appears that when early artists designed to represent God the Father, fear and awe restrained them from a delineation of the whole person. Typically only a small part would be represented, usually the hand, or sometimes the face, but rarely the whole person. In many images, the figure of the Son supplants the Father, so a smaller portion of the person of the Father is depicted.\n\nBy the 12th century depictions of God the Father had started to appear in French illuminated manuscripts, which as a less public form could often be more adventurous in their iconography, and in stained glass church windows in England. Initially the head or bust was usually shown in some form of frame of clouds in the top of the picture space, where the Hand of God had formerly appeared; the Baptism of Christ on the famous baptismal font in Liège of Rainer of Huy is an example from 1118 (a Hand of God is used in another scene). Gradually the amount of the body shown can increase to a half-length figure, then a full-length, usually enthroned, as in Giotto's fresco of c. 1305 in Padua. In the 14th century the Naples Bible carried a depiction of God the Father in the Burning bush. By the early 15th century, the Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry has a considerable number of images, including an elderly but tall and elegant full-length figure walking in the Garden of Eden (gallery), which show a considerable diversity of apparent ages and dress. The \"Gates of Paradise\" of the Florence Baptistry by Lorenzo Ghiberti, begun in 1425 show a similar tall full-length Father. The Rohan Book of Hours of about 1430 also included depictions of God the Father in half-length human form, which were now becoming standard, and the Hand of God becoming rarer. At the same period other works, like the large Genesis altarpiece by the Hamburg painter Meister Bertram, continued to use the old depiction of Christ as \"Logos\" in Genesis scenes. In the 15th century there was a brief fashion for depicting all three persons of the Trinity as similar or identical figures with the usual appearance of Christ.\n\nIn an early Venetian school \"Coronation of the Virgin\" by Giovanni d'Alemagna and Antonio Vivarini, (c. 1443) (see gallery below) The Father is shown in the representation consistently used by other artists later, namely as a patriarch, with benign, yet powerful countenance and with long white hair and a beard, a depiction largely derived from, and justified by, the description of the Ancient of Days in the Old Testament, the nearest approach to a physical description of God in the Old Testament:. ...the Ancient of Days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire. (Daniel 7:9) \nIn the \"Annunciation\" by Benvenuto di Giovanni in 1470, God the Father is portrayed in the red robe and a hat that resembles that of a Cardinal. However, even in the later part of the 15th century, the representation of the Father and the Holy Spirit as \"hands and dove\" continued, e.g. in Verrocchio's \"Baptism of Christ\" in 1472.\n\nIn Renaissance paintings of the adoration of the Trinity, God may be depicted in two ways, either with emphasis on The Father, or the three elements of the Trinity. The most usual depiction of the Trinity in Renaissance art depicts God the Father as an old man, usually with a long beard and patriarchal in appearance, sometimes with a triangular halo (as a reference to the Trinity), or with a papal tiara, specially in Northern Renaissance painting. In these depictions The Father may hold a globe or book. He is behind and above Christ on the Cross in the Throne of Mercy iconography. A dove, the symbol of the Holy Spirit may hover above. Various people from different classes of society, e.g. kings, popes or martyrs may be present in the picture. In a Trinitarian Pietà, God the Father is often shown wearing a papal dress and a papal tiara, supporting the dead Christ in his arms. They float in heaven with angels who carry the instruments of the Passion.\n\nThe orb, or the globe of the world, is rarely shown with the other two persons of the Trinity and is almost exclusively restricted to God the Father, but is not a definite indicator since it is sometimes used in depictions of Christ. A book, although often depicted with the Father is not an indicator of the Father and is also used with Christ.\n\nRepresentations of God the Father and the Trinity were attacked both by Protestants and within Catholicism, by the Jansenist and Baianist movements as well as more orthodox theologians. As with other attacks on Catholic imagery, this had the effect both of reducing Church support for the less central depictions, and strengthening it for the core ones. In the Western Church, the pressure to restrain religious imagery resulted in the highly influential decrees of the final session of the Council of Trent in 1563. The Council of Trent decrees confirmed the traditional Catholic doctrine that images only represented the person depicted, and that veneration to them was paid to the person, not the image.\n\nArtistic depictions of God the Father were uncontroversial in Catholic art thereafter, but less common depictions of the Trinity were condemned. In 1745 Pope Benedict XIV explicitly supported the Throne of Mercy depiction, referring to the \"Ancient of Days\", but in 1786 it was still necessary for Pope Pius VI to issue a papal bull condemning the decision of an Italian church council to remove all images of the Trinity from churches.\n\nGod the Father appears in several Genesis scenes in Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling, most famously \"The Creation of Adam\". God the Father is depicted as a powerful figure, floating in the clouds in \"Titian's Assumption of the Virgin\" (see gallery below) in the Frari of Venice, long admired as a masterpiece of High Renaissance art. The Church of the Gesù in Rome includes a number of 16th-century depictions of God the Father. In some of these paintings the Trinity is still alluded to in terms of three angels, but Giovanni Battista Fiammeri also depicted God the Father riding on a cloud, above the scenes.\n\nIn both the \"Last Judgment\" and the \"Coronation of the Virgin\" paintings by Rubens (see gallery below) he depicted God the Father in the form that by then had become widely accepted, as a bearded patriarchal figure above the fray. In the 17th century, the two Spanish artists Velázquez (whose father-in-law Francisco Pacheco was in charge of the approval of new images for the Inquisition) and Murillo both depicted God the Father as a patriarchal figure with a white beard (see gallery below) in a purple robe.\n\nWhile representations of God the Father were growing in Italy, Spain, Germany and the Low Countries, there was resistance elsewhere in Europe, even during the 17th century. In 1632 most members of the Star Chamber court in England (except the Archbishop of York) condemned the use of the images of the Trinity in church windows, and some considered them illegal. Later in the 17th century Sir Thomas Browne wrote that he considered the depiction of God the Father as an old man \"a dangerous act\" that might lead to Egyptian symbolism. In 1847, Charles Winston was still critical of such images as a \"Romish trend\" (a term used to refer to Roman Catholics) that he considered best avoided in England.\n\nIn 1667 the 43rd chapter of the Great Moscow Council specifically included a ban on a number of depictions of God the Father and the Holy Spirit, which then also resulted in a whole range of other icons being placed on the forbidden list, mostly affecting Western-style depictions which had been gaining ground in Orthodox icons. The Council also declared that the person of the Trinity who was the \"Ancient of Days\" was Christ, as \"Logos\", not God the Father. However some icons continued to be produced in Russia, as well as Greece, Romania, and other Orthodox countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22156971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22156971", "title": "Grace (2009 film)", "text": "Grace (2009 film)\n\nGrace is a 2009 horror film written and directed by Paul Solet. It is based on the 2006 short film of the same name. The short film was used to obtain funding for the feature version. \n\nMichael Matheson (Stephen Park) and his pregnant wife Madeline (Jordan Ladd) are involved in a car accident. Michael dies, and doctors tell Madeline that her unborn child is dead, too. Madeline, desperate after trying to have a child for years, decides to carry her baby to term anyway. The child, a girl, initially appears stillborn. After a while, though, she seems to revive, and Madeline names her \"Grace\". It soon becomes clear something is wrong with the baby. She develops unhealthy smells, attracts flies, and craves blood.\n\nAfter two unsuccessful attempts to have a child, Michael and Madeline succeed the third time. Michael's domineering mother Vivian would rather they use her preferred doctor and friend, Dr. Sohn, as their obstetrician, but Madeline wants to consult her midwife friend Patricia, who is also an ex-girlfriend of hers. \n\nOne night, Michael rushes Madeline to the hospital because of chest pain. Dr. Sohn comes at Vivian's request. Just before he administers drugs to induce labor, Patricia arrives. She challenges his diagnosis and determines through bloodwork (which he has ignored) that inducement is not necessary. Madeline is treated and released, and on the way home, a car accident kills Michael and the unborn baby. Madeline refuses to go to the hospital to begin induction of labor, so Patricia allows Madeline to carry to term. When the stillborn girl, is delivered, Madeline is left alone with her, presumably to say goodbye. However, when Patricia returns, the baby is miraculously alive. Overjoyed, Madeline names the baby Grace. \n\nPatricia later visits Madeline at home and encourages her to take Grace to the hospital for tests to help understand how she revived. Citing her recent experience with Dr. Sohn, Madeline refuses any involvement with conventional medicine. But as Madeline cares for Grace, strange things keep happening in her home. She resorts to hanging fly paper in the nursery because Grace is attracting them due to her putrid scent, even when her diaper isn't soiled. Madeline tries to bathe her daughter, but Grace's skin begins to bleed. Madeline attempts to contact Patricia for help, but can only reach the clinic's answering machine and Patricia's jealous girlfriend, who does not pass on her messages. After attempts at feeding Grace end with vomiting, Madeline realizes that the baby is unable to digest breast milk.\n\nIn the meantime, Vivian wants to visit the baby and attempts to call Madeline, but she will not answer. She visits Dr. Sohn and convinces him to visit Madeline while looking to collect proof that she is an unfit mother in order to raise Grace herself.\n\nMadeline discovers that Grace's nursing is painful to the point of causing her breast to bleed, and realizes that the child is feeding on her blood. At first, she's able to feed Grace beef blood from a bottle, but Grace can't digest it, forcing Madeline to continue feeding Grace her own blood. Madeline becomes weakened to the point that she allows Dr. Sohn into her home when he calls on her. He explains that she is anemic, and instructs her to refrain from nursing for a few days. After hearing Grace cry weakly, he starts upstairs, dialing Vivian's number on his cellphone. Fearing that he will take Grace away, Madeline beats Dr. Sohn unconscious, but not before his call connects.\n\nVivian arrives just as Madeline finishes draining blood from Dr. Sohn's arm into a baby bottle. She agrees to leave, but instead finds Grace in her crib, and the bottle of Dr. Sohn's blood broken on the floor. Madeline tries to pursue her, but Vivian is able to grab Grace and look for a hiding place, discovering Dr. Sohn's body in the process. She arms herself with a hammer; Madeline confronts her, and Vivian beats Madeline unconscious with the hammer, but not before Madeline rips out part of her mother-in-law's throat with her teeth. They are discovered by Patricia, who realized her girlfriend was withholding Madeline's messages and decided to investigate.\n\nSome time later, Patricia is driving a motor home through the desert. She pulls over and goes to the back to check on Madeline and Grace. She asserts that medical tests have confirmed Grace is as healthy as she looks, and as long as Madeline keeps eating the proper diet, they can continue feeding and raising Grace. Madeline is concerned about something else, however: Grace has begun teething. She pulls up her shirt to reveal that a large chunk of her breast has been chewed away.\n\n\nShooting began on April 21, 2008, in Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.\n\n\"Grace\" premiered at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival. It was released in the US on August 14, 2009.\n\nRotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 67% of 27 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 6.4/10. Metacritic rated it 52/100 based on six reviews. Jon Anderson of \"Variety\" called it \"a satirical creepfest that mines modern motherhood for all its latent terrors\". Doris Toumarkine of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote, \"\"Grace\" whimpers a bit like \"Rosemary's Baby\" and gurgles occasionally like \"The Exorcist\", but the video look and bare-bones craftsmanship all scream B movie.\" Mike Hale of \"The New York Times\" described it as a \"chilly and slow-moving horror film, which plays with ideas of mother love, obsessive child rearing and liberal spinelessness, adding a helping of trendy vampirism.\" Michael Ordona of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called it \"a horrifying meditation on the unbreakable union of mother and child\". S. James Snyder of \"Time Out New York\" rated it 1/5 stars and wrote, \"Paul Solet's gyno-horror flick is certainly twisted but only slightly unnerving; the movie is about as gripping as one might expect given that its infant monster is both mute and cradle-bound.\" Ed Gonzalez of \"The Village Voice\" wrote that \"Grace\" is creepy but questioned the point of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "486077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486077", "title": "Grotto", "text": "Grotto\n\nA grotto (Italian \"grotta\" and French \"grotte\") is a natural or artificial cave used by humans in both modern times and antiquity, and historically or prehistorically. Naturally occurring grottoes are often small caves near water that are usually flooded or liable to flood at high tide. Sometimes, artificial grottoes are used as garden features. The \"Grotta Azzurra\" at Capri and the grotto at the villa of Tiberius in the Bay of Naples are examples of popular natural seashore grottoes.\n\nWhether in tidal water or high up in hills, grottoes are generally made up of limestone geology, where the acidity of standing water has dissolved the carbonates in the rock matrix as it passes through what were originally small fissures. See karst topography, cavern.\nThe word \"grotto\" comes from Italian \"grotta\", Vulgar Latin grupta, and Latin crypta (a crypt). It is also related by a historical accident to the word \"grotesque\". In the late 15th century, Romans accidentally unearthed Nero's \"Domus Aurea\" on the Palatine Hill, a series of rooms, decorated with designs of garlands, slender architectural framework, foliage, and animals. The rooms had sunk underground over time. The Romans who discovered this historical monument found it very strange, partly because it was uncovered from an \"underworld\" source. This led the Romans of that era to give it the name \"grottesca\", from which came the French \"grotesque\".\n\nGrottoes were very popular in Greek and Roman culture. Spring-fed grottoes were a feature of Apollo's oracles at Delphi, Corinth, and Clarus. The Hellenistic city of Rhodes was designed with rock-cut artificial grottoes incorporated into the city, made to look natural. At the great Roman sanctuary of Praeneste south of Rome, the oldest portion of the primitive sanctuary was situated on the second lowest terrace, in a grotto in the natural rock where a spring developed into a well. According to tradition, Praeneste's sacred spring had a native nymph, who was honored in a grotto-like watery nymphaeum.\n\nTiberius, the Roman emperor, filled his grotto with sculptures to create a sense of mythology, perhaps channeling Polyphemus' cave in the \"Odyssey\". The numinous quality of the grotto is still more ancient: in a grotto near Knossos in Crete, Eileithyia was venerated, even before Minoan palace-building. Even farther back in time, the immanence of the divine in a grotto is seen in the sacred caves of Lascaux.\n\nThe popularity of artificial grottoes introduced the Mannerist style to Italian and French gardens of the mid-16th century. Two famous grottoes in the Boboli Gardens of Palazzo Pitti were begun by Vasari and completed by Ammanati and Buontalenti between 1583 and 1593. One of these grottoes originally housed the \"Prisoners\" of Michelangelo. Before the Boboli grotto, a garden was laid out by Niccolò Tribolo at the Medici Villa Castello, near Florence. At Pratolino, in spite of the dryness of the site, there was a Grotto of Cupid (surviving), with water tricks for the unsuspecting visitor. The Fonte di Fata Morgana (\"Fata Morgana's Spring\") at Grassina, not far from Florence, is a small garden building, built in 1573–4 as a garden feature in the extensive grounds of the Villa \"Riposo\" (rest) of Bernardo Vecchietti. It is decorated with sculptures in the Giambolognan manner.\n\nThe outsides of garden grottoes are often designed to look like an enormous rock, a rustic porch or a rocky overhang. Inside, they are decorated as a temple or with fountains, stalactites and imitation gems and shells (sometimes made in ceramic); herms and mermaids, mythological subjects suited to the space; and naiads, or river gods whose urns spilled water into pools. Damp grottoes were cool places to retreat from the Italian sun, but they also became fashionable in the cool drizzle of the Île-de-France. In Kuskovo in the Sheremetev estate there is a Summer Grotto, built in 1775.\nGrottoes could also serve as baths; an example of this is at the Palazzo del Te, in the 'Casino della Grotta', where a small suite of intimate rooms is laid out around a grotto and \"loggetta\" (covered balcony). Courtiers once bathed in the small cascade that splashed over the pebbles and shells encrusted in the floor and walls.\n\nGrottoes have also served as chapels, or at Villa Farnese at Caprarola, a little theater designed in the grotto manner. They were often combined with cascading fountains in Renaissance gardens.\n\nThe grotto designed by Bernard Palissy for Catherine de' Medici's château in Paris, the Tuileries, was renowned. There are also grottoes in the gardens designed by André Le Nôtre for Versailles. In England, an early garden grotto was built at Wilton House in the 1630s, probably by Isaac de Caus.\n\nGrottoes were suitable for less formal gardens too. Pope's Grotto, created by Alexander Pope, is almost all that survives of one of the very first landscape gardens in England, at Twickenham. Pope was inspired after seeing grottoes in Italy during a visit there. Efforts are under way to restore his grotto. There are grottoes in the landscape gardens of Painshill Park, Stowe, Clandon Park and Stourhead. Scott's Grotto is a series of interconnected chambers, extending 67 ft (20 metres) into the chalk hillside on the outskirts of Ware, Hertfordshire. Built during the late 18th century, the chambers and tunnels are lined with shells, flints and pieces of coloured glass. The Romantic generation of tourists might not actually visit Fingal's Cave, on the remote isle of Staffa in the Scottish Hebrides, but they have often heard of it, perhaps through Felix Mendelssohn's \"Hebrides Overture\", better known as \"Fingal's Cave\", which was inspired by his visit. In the 19th century, when miniature Matterhorns and rock-gardens became fashionable, a grotto was often found, such as at Ascott House. In Bavaria, Ludwig's Linderhof contains an abstraction of the grotto under Venusberg, which figured in Wagner's \"Tannhäuser\".\n\nAlthough grottoes have largely fallen from fashion since the British Picturesque movement, architects and artists occasionally try to redefine the grotto in contemporary design works. Such examples include Aranda/Lasch's \"Grotto Concept,\" (2005), Callum Moreton's \"Grotto\" pavilion (2010), ARM's post-modern \"Storey Hall\" (1995), and Frederick Kiesler's \"Grotto of Meditation for New Harmony\" (1964).\n\nToday, artificial grottoes are purchased and built for ornamental and devotional purposes. They are often used as shrines in which to place statues of saints, particularly the Virgin Mary, in outdoor gardens.\n\nMany Roman Catholics visit a grotto where Bernadette Soubirous claimed she saw apparitions of Our Lady of Lourdes. Numerous garden shrines are modelled after these apparitions. They can commonly be found displayed in gardens and churches, among other places (see Lourdes grotto).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2484942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2484942", "title": "Harry Greenbank", "text": "Harry Greenbank\n\nHarry Greenbank (11 September 1865 – 26 February 1899) was an English author and dramatist best known for contributing lyrics to the successful series musicals produced at Daly's Theatre by George Edwardes in the 1890s.\n\nHarry Greenbank was born Henry Harveston Greenbank in London, England and had an extraordinarily productive, but short, life.\n\nGreenbank first placed one of his works, \"Captain Billy\", at the Savoy Theatre, set to music by the company's musical director François Cellier. The piece was staged as a curtain-raiser to \"The Nautch Girl\" beginning in 1891. He continued to write such small-scale pieces over the following couple of years, both for the Savoy (\"Mr. Jericho\" in 1893 and \"Old Sarah\" in 1897) and for the Lyric Theatre, where Horace Sedger asked him to supply the English lyrics to F. C. Burnand's adaptation of the French operetta \"Le Coeur et la main\" (Incognita).\n\nAfter that, George Edwardes put Greenbank together as lyricist with music director Sidney Jones and dramatist Owen Hall to create the hit musical comedy \"A Gaiety Girl\" in 1893. After the worldwide success of that piece, the three stayed together and subsequently formed the backbone of the team which produced the famous series of very successful series of Daly's Theatre musicals, including \"An Artist's Model\" (1895), \"The Geisha\" (1896), \"A Greek Slave\" (1898), and \"San Toy\" (1899).\n\nAt the same time, Greenbank also provided lyrics for two of the most successful of the lighter shows produced by Edwardes at the Gaiety Theatre \"The Circus Girl\" (1896) and \"A Runaway Girl\" (1898). He also ventured twice as librettist-lyricist, once with an original musical, \"Monte Carlo\", and once with an adaptation of Lecocq's \"La Petite Mademoiselle\" as \"The Scarlet Feather\". He also contributed additional lyrics for \"The Bric à Brac Will\" (1895) and, posthumously, a song for the London production of \"A Chinese Honeymoon\" (1901), \"Roses Red and White\".\n\nGreenbank was often in ill health, and during the production of \"A Greek Slave\", he moved with his wife and son to England's southern coast in an attempt to regain some strength. He died there while writing lyrics for \"San Toy\", and the piece was completed by Adrian Ross, who, with Greenbank, was largely responsible for establishing the post of lyricist (as opposed to librettist, or co-writer) in the modern musical theatre.\n\nHe died in Boscombe, Bournemouth, Hampshire at the age of 33.\n\n"}
{"id": "52712334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52712334", "title": "Instant book", "text": "Instant book\n\nInstant book is a term used in publishing to describe a book that has been produced and published very quickly to meet market demand.\n\nNormally when a book is published, it represents months of preparation and production—the production process takes from two months to a year. An Instant book is one that is written and published very quickly to capitalize on a current news event or figure. Many of the scheduling and roadblocks in a publishing plan are put aside in order to get the book published as quickly as possible. Sometimes government documents or reports are published—they require little editing and are part of the public domain. The book generally has a very short lifespan once published—sales are expected to be high in the first few days and weeks and then drop off.\n\nThere are conflicting reports as to when the first instant book was published. There are reports that the first instant book appeared after the Chicago fire of 1874. There were Instant books published and sold door-to-door about the Titanic shortly after the disaster in 1912. Pocket Books claims that they published the first instant book in 1945 after the death of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the dropping of the atomic bomb in Hiroshima.\n\nIt was in the latter half of the 20th century that American publishers used Instant books more commonly as part of their publishing plan. Instant books were published on the Northeast blackout of 1965, the Moon landing, the Iran hostage crisis, and the murder of John Lennon.\n\nOne of the most successful instant books was the Warren Commission Report published in 1964 by Bantam Books, which by 1987 had over 1.7 million copies in print. Bantam followed this book up with over 70 other instant books over the next couple of decades. Two \"San Francisco Chronicle\" journalists wrote a book on the Jonestown massacre in 11 days, publishing it three hours before a competing work. Operation Entebbe and IBM's introduction of its PCjr home computer also received instant books.\n\nInstant books have gone in and out of favor over the years. By the late 1980s, the New York Times said that their high cost of production along with several failed Instant books caused publishers to back away from this process. Publishers printed instant books in mass paperback in high quantity print runs that resulted in returns to the publisher after public interest waned in the topic. But by the 1990s advances in the publishing and distribution had allowed costs to go down and some publishers built instant publishing back into their plans.\n\nSt Martin's Press published several instant books in the late 1990s focusing on true-crime, including books on the O.J. Simpson case (\"Fallen Hero\") and the Susan Smith case (\"Sins of the Mother\"). Executive editor, Charles Spicer, described to \"Writer's Digest\" how he looked for authors who were experienced reporters who were capable of gathering information quickly and writing to a deadline. He had chosen Carlton Smith, an experienced reporter, to write an instant book on the Jon Benet Ramsay case (\"Death of a Little Princess\"). Spicer said that a book needed to be able to sell hundreds of thousands of copies to be worth a publisher's effort for an instant book.\n\nSome types of instant books did not fare well in the 21st century. The advent of the Internet affected government and document instant publishing—a government document or report could be posted online instead of printed in book form for easy public access. Instead of publishing documents—publishers looked for other ways to create value with instant books by focusing on major sporting and news events.\n\nOften a book publisher will team up with newspapers. Triumph Books, a division of Random House, is an example of a publisher that focuses on creating instant books with newspapers. Triumph worked with Los Angeles Times to publish a book commemorating the 2012 Stanley Cup, and with the Chicago Tribune for an Instant book commemorating the 2016 World series.\n\nJHU Press is an example of a publisher producing an Instant book tied to a news event. JHU Press published an instant book on the Gun Violence debate shortly after the Sandy Hook incident with materials gathered from a summit that was quickly conceived and put together. The publisher Press described their process for publishing an instant book using a simultaneous process to Publisher's Weekly in 2013: Kathy Alexander, JHU Press’ publicity manager, reports that while the press is more accustomed to a publishing process that typically takes 11 months from transmission of the manuscript to book release, they are able to produce \"Reducing Gun Violence\" in 14 days by shifting from a linear production process, in which every task occurs in order, to a more simultaneous process, in which different tasks are performed at the same time.The cover, for example, was designed before the title was finalized,” Anderson explained, “Metadata was pushed out to booksellers before the manuscript was complete. Even the peer review process was changed to accommodate the schedule with multiple readers reviewing individual parts simultaneously.”Over the years, printers and book manufacturers have adjusted their process to accommodate instant books through innovation and updating printing practices. Where once a large print run was needed for an instant book (but often translated in high returns), now smaller print runs can make instant publishing more feasible.\n\n"}
{"id": "31345896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31345896", "title": "International Children's Book Day", "text": "International Children's Book Day\n\nInternational Children's Book Day (ICBD) is a yearly event sponsored by the International Board on Books for Young People (IBBY), an international non-profit organization. Founded in 1967, the day is observed on or around Hans Christian Andersen's birthday, April 2. Activities include writing competitions, announcements of book awards and events with authors of children's literature.\n\nEach year a different National Section of IBBY has the opportunity to be the international sponsor of ICBD. It decides upon a theme and invites a prominent author from the host country to write a message to the children of the world and a well-known illustrator to design a poster. These materials are used in different ways to promote books and reading. Many IBBY Sections promote ICBD through the media and organize activities in schools and public libraries. Often ICBD is linked to celebrations around children's books and other special events that may include encounters with authors and illustrators, writing competitions or announcements of book awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1303431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303431", "title": "Jeri Ellsworth", "text": "Jeri Ellsworth\n\nJeri Janet Ellsworth is an American entrepreneur and an autodidact computer chip designer and inventor. She gained fame in 2004 for creating a complete Commodore 64 system on a chip housed within a joystick, called C64 Direct-to-TV. That \"computer in a joystick\" could run 30 video games from the early 1980's, and at peak, sold over 70,000 units in a single day via the QVC shopping channel.\n\nEllsworth co-founded CastAR (formerly Technical Illusions) in 2013 and stayed with the company until it shut down on June 26, 2017. In late 2014, she moved from Seattle to Mountain View, California with the CastAR team.\n\nEllsworth was born in Georgia and grew up in the towns of Dallas, Oregon and Yamhill, Oregon, where she was raised by her father, a local Mobil service station owner. As a child, she persuaded her father to let her use a Commodore 64 computer which had been originally purchased for her brother. She taught herself to program by reading the C64's manuals. While at high school, she drove dirt-track race cars with her father, and then began designing new models in his workshop, eventually selling her own custom race cars. This allowed her to drop out of high school to continue the business.\n\nIn 1995, at the age of 21, she decided that she wanted to get away from the race car business, and she and a friend started a business selling PCs based around the Intel 486 microprocessor, assembling and selling computers. When she and her partner later had a disagreement, Ellsworth opened a separate business in competition. This new business became a chain of four stores, \"Computers Made Easy\", selling computer equipment in towns in Oregon. She ran that chain until selling it in 2000, at which point she moved to Walla Walla, Washington and attended Walla Walla College, studying circuit design for about a year. She dropped out due to a \"cultural mismatch\"; Ellsworth said that questioning professors' answers was frowned upon.In 2000, Ellsworth attended her first Commodore exposition, where she unveiled a prototype video expansion for the C64. This project later evolved to become the CommodoreOne, a.k.a. the C-One, and C64-DTV, and a video on YouTube \"Expo Jeri 1st\". Ellsworth then began designing computer circuits that mimicked the behavior of her first computer, the Commodore 64. In 2002, she designed the chip used in the C-One as an enhanced Commodore 64 which could also emulate other home computers of the early 1980s, including the VIC-20 and Sinclair ZX81. She and her fellow developer displayed the C-One at a technology conference, which led to Ellsworth receiving a job offer from Mammoth Toys, which hired her to design the \"computer in a chip\" for the Commodore-emulating joystick. She began the project in June 2004 and had the project ready to ship by that Christmas. It sold over a half-million units, in the USA, Europe, and elsewhere.\nFrom December 2008 until March 2009, Ellsworth hosted a weekly webcast, \"Fatman and Circuit Girl\", together with George Sanger. On May 30, 2009, Ellsworth demonstrated her Home Chip Lab at Maker Faire Bay Area 2009. Ellsworth was named \"MacGyver of the Day\" on February 25, 2010 by Lifehacker.\n\nOn December 3, 2010 she released information on how to build a TSA \"naked\" scanner using repurposed satellite antenna parts. Ellsworth has published numerous technical articles online regarding subjects as diverse as homemade semiconductors (2009), homemade electroluminescent (EL) displays (2010), EL phosphor manufacture from common ingredients and ways to make transparent EL backplanes and phosphor without using expensive indium-tin-oxide coated glass and hard to obtain chemicals.\n\nEllsworth was a keynote speaker at the Embedded Systems Conference on May 5, 2011. Ellsworth has made significant contributions to ongoing work on DIY transistors in relation to rapid prototyping as well as thick film fabrication of EL displays using off the shelf chemicals. In early 2012 Ellsworth and several other notable hardware hackers were hired by Valve Corporation to work on gaming hardware. Along with several other Valve employees, Ellsworth was dismissed the following year.\n\nOn May 18, 2013, Ellsworth announced that she had developed an augmented reality development system named castAR with fellow ex-Valve engineer Rick Johnson, with the blessing of Valve's Gabe Newell and would be funding it via Kickstarter later in the year. Her start-up company, Technical Illusions, is developing castAR.\n\nEllsworth later revealed she had been secretly working to make castAR have \"true VR and true AR\" in addition to the previously announced projected AR capabilities. The castAR Kickstarter, launched on October 14, 2013, reached its goal of $400,000 in 56 hours and finished with $1.05 million, 263% of the original goal.\n\nEllsworth is a pinball aficionado and owns over 80 pinball machines. In 2016 she became a licensed amateur radio operator, holding an Extra Class license.\n\n"}
{"id": "38749265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38749265", "title": "Kala Academy", "text": "Kala Academy\n\nKala Academy (Academy of the Arts) is a prominent cultural centre run by the Government of Goa, in Goa, India. Situated at Campal, Panjim, it is registered as a society, and was started in February 1970. The building was designed by Charles Correa. It plays the role of being an \"apex body to develop music, dance, drama, fine art, folk art, literature, etc. and thereby promote (the) cultural unity of Goa.\"\n\nFunded by the Government of Goa, the centre offers training through its faculty, and also organises festivals, competitions, exhibitions, workshops, seminars, and other programmes related to various forms of the local arts. It has a General Council of 28 members, a 14-member Executive Board, and advisory committees for various sections.\n\n"}
{"id": "56754191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56754191", "title": "Koroghlu Fortress", "text": "Koroghlu Fortress\n\nKoroghlu fortress is a fortress located in the village of Gala of Gadabay district. \n\nThe name of the fortress is connected with the name of Koroglu, the national hero of Azerbaijan. Fortresses with this name are encountered in Shamkir, Gadabay, Tovuz and other regions. Generally, common feature of the Koroghlu fortresses are they are mostly built in the XVII century, and in military-strategic position in high-altitude, inaccessible places. Some researchers state that the age of the monument is older. According to them, the age of these monuments dates back farther than Koroglu, who lived in the XVI-XVII centuries.\n\nIt is located at an altitude of 2,000 meters above sea level. The fortress is located between the villages of Galakand and Miskinli, on the peak of the rocky cliff. The monument can be climbed only by foot. The western side of the tower is a steep cliff. The thickness of the walls is about 1 meter. Inside the fortress there are the ruins of windmill, tandoor and water reservoir. According to local residents, there are hidden underground roads that have not yet been explored in the fortress.\n\nArchitecture of Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "37590275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37590275", "title": "Laurent Gervereau", "text": "Laurent Gervereau\n\nLaurent Gervereau (born 1956, in Paris) is a French artist, novelist, philosopher and filmmaker. The founder of the discipline of Visual History (or \"Histiconologia\"), he has devoted his professional life to the world of images, as well as to the direction of cultural and international institutions.\n\nGervereau has been actively engaged in the art world since the 1970s, having participated in exhibitions with several notable surrealists (Philippe Soupault, Belgian or Czech surrealists, Mirabelle Dors, Alfred Courmes, Maurice Rapin, Clovis Trouille, etc.). His artistic and cultural interests include the Dada movement, Proudhon, Charles Fourier, Guy Debord and the situationist movement. He is a member of the Collège de 'Pataphysique.\n\nIn 1977, he founded the pataphysico-situationnist review \"Aux poubelles de la Gloire\" with Guy Bodson. There were 13 issues and it finished in 1979. This was the beginning of his philosophy of relativity (\"Pour une philosophie de la relativité\", 2010) against relativism. He then built his theories about cultural ecology, evolutionism, necessity of diversity and movement (\"plurofuturo\"), of choice between past and future (\"retrofuturo\") and his struggle against those who have only one way to look at the world, inheritated from the past, and want to uniformise the entire planet (\"monoretros\").\n\nHe began then his long novel called \"L'homme planétaire\" (end of the 1970s). The middle part of this triptych was published by Sens & Tonka in 2001 with the title \"Ce livre n'est pas à lire\" (\"This Book is Not to be Read\"). It was chosen by the \"Les Inrockuptibles\" magazine and the radio channel France Culture as one of the seven best novels of the year. This book is an experiment in mixed media and local-global description in literature: the \"crossmedialism\". He will make the adaptation for manga of the third part of the tryptique with a Chinese artist Xin Ye (\"Mixplanet\", 2011).\n\nIn 1989, he built with Louis Rollinde a new artistic group with a new review in English and French: Painters of History (\"Les Peintres d'histoire\"). Exhibitions were held in Naples, Paris and Hanover. To struggle against the new maelstrom of images, he defended rarity in art and the difficulty to see with hidden images (\"La Disparition des images\", 2003). So, he combines art actions or art productions and the creation of unique pieces (\"Unik\" movement which defends rarity and magic).\n\nAfter he began to make short movies during the 1970s, he released eight movies. They are experimental documentaries belonging to the \"cinema espresso\" and were shown from 2009 to 2012 (and after). Official projections were made in January 2011 in the Reflet Médicis in Paris.\n\nHe agreed to become president of the See-socioecolo Network, founded in 2010 in Brazil and Canada (official website of the socioecolo evolutionnists). In the end of 2012 he published \"LE LOCAL-GLOBAL. Changer soi pour changer la planète\" (\"The Local-Global. Change yourself to change the Planet\") and was nicknamed for years \"Mister Local-Global\". Last but not least, in 2012, he made an artistic action in Hong Kong with the words: \"economy is a belief\". In France, he chose: \"nostalgia = cancer\". Other members act in Brazil and Canada, and in some other countries for the World Campaign \"Knowledge is beautiful\".\n\nHe creates the local-global annual meeting in Argentat sur Dordogne (France): Les Rencontres-Promenades \"Histoires de Passages...\". Cabu gave the drawing for the 1st edition (July 2015), which is his last poster, in December 2014.\n\nHe first worked in bookshops and in a bank (Crédit Agricole) to get money to live. He made the choice on October 1, 1978, to work in a museum. It had two consequences: first, to act for the transformation of the patrimonial institutions all over the world (look at the networks part in networks section); second, made the choice to base his researches on all kind of images because he discovered that 98% of the pieces in the collections interested nobody. Then, became the specialist of the World History of Images or \"Histiconologia\" (website for cultural education).\n\nHe became the curator of the Museum of Contemporary History (\"Musée d'Histoire contemporaine de la Bibliothèque de documentation internationale contemporaine\") in 1991 where he did a lot of exhibitions. In 1991, he founded the International Association of Museums of History (website of the International Association of Museums of History) and was the president for 14 years. In 1992, he founded the \"Group L'Image\" with Fabrice d'Almeida, Antoine de Baecque, Philippe Buton, Christian Delporte, Laurence Bertrand Dorléac, and David El Kenz. The review is distributed by Gallimard in France and Harvard University in the United States. There are many contributions such as his interview of Ernst Gombrich in London or Arturo Schwarz in Milan about Marcel Duchamp. International colloquiums were held (\"Où va l'histoire de l'art contemporain?\" / \"Where does the History of Contemporary Art go?\", \"Peut-on apprendre à voir?\" / \"How to learn to see?\", \"Quelle est la place des images en histoire?\" / \"What is the Place of Images in History?\" ) and websites were invented with the help of the French government or the European Commission (imagesmag.net, imageduc.net, primages.net) as CD-roms (collection [décrypter les images] |deciphere the images]). Now all these activities belong to the Institute of Images and website of cultural education.\n\nIn the Museum of Contemporary History, he works with a lot of different researchers and artists. He built comparative exhibitions (Germany and France during the 1920s, Great Britain and France during the 1960s), exhibitions about foreign countries as Yugoslav space or Russia and USSR and also exhibitions about difficult subjects concerning French history: propaganda under the Vichy Government (1991), War in Algeria (1992), history of immigration, Dreyfus Affair, Deportation, Images and colonies etc. In 2001, he became director of the Museum of Cinema-Henri Langlois in the Cinémathèque française in Paris.\n\nEvery two years, he organized world congresses with different subjects (\"How to organize a Multipolar World?\", April 2004 in Brazil). He led the EUROCLIO Network about history of Europe and heritage, helped by the European Commission from 1999 to 2003 with numerous institutions from all countries of the European Union and more. He built the Museums of Europe Network, founding the review of comparatist history \"Comparare\" with Jacques Le Goff, Eric Hobsbawm, Carlo Ginzburg, Rudolf von Thadden, Bronislaw Geremek. He wrote the book \"Vous avez dit musées? Tout savoir sur la crise culturelle\" / \"You said museums? To know everything about the cultural crisis\" (CNRS Editions).\n\nConcerning the question of images, he published a lot of books during 30 years. The general bibliography (except articles and conferences) is on: official website of Laurent Gervereau, look at \"traces\". Here are some main examples: about the method to analyse images, \"Voir, comprendre, analyser les images\" (La Découverte); with Cabu, educative comics for children, \"Le monde des images. Comprendre les images pour ne pas se faire manipuler\" (Robert Laffont); le \"Dictionnaire mondial des images\"/ \"World Dictionary of Images\" (Nouveau monde); the general history of images, \"Images, une histoire mondiale\" (Nouveau monde/CNDP); \"Un siècle de manipulations par l'image\" (Somogy Editions d'art), \"Inventer l'actualité\" (La Découverte), \"La Guerre mondiale médiatique\" (Nouveau monde), the exhibition and the book \"Les images mentent? Manipuler les images ou manipuler le public\": general website for cultural education. Some translations are done (in Portuguese and in Arabic), but there is still a lack for some important languages as English, Spanish or Chinese.\n\nGervereau is now the president of the Institut des Images and director of: general website for cultural education. In July 2013, he created on this website a monthly cultural video magazine: [decryptcult].\n\nIn 2004, he became also the director of the International Museum of Ecology: \"Musée du Vivant\" (du Vivant). He created a world network in UNESCO during the Congress of December 2005 in Te Papa Museum (New Zealand): Ecology and Sustainable Development Network. He wrote in 2011 \"Une histoire générale de l'écologie en images\" (\"A General History of Ecology in Images\", about the relations between humanity and environment from prehistory). In 2012, he organized with Christian Delporte the international colloquium \"Patrimoine de l'écologie et écologie du patrimoine\" / \"Heritage of Ecology, Ecology of Heritage\".\n\nThe historian Jacques Le Goff, who directed Annales review Annales School, wrote in the newspaper \"Le Monde\" (December 15, 2006) about the \"World Dictionary of Images\": \"President of the Institute of Images, Laurent Gervereau published a book that will be essential. He built a team to work on the question of all types of images, a team of exceptional specialists, artists or celebrated intellectuals or brilliant young researchers. We know that, after the last years of the 20th century, humanity has entered into the time of images. The sum realised by Gervereau is in the continuity of his book of method \"See, Understand, Analyse Images\" (La Découverte, first edition in 1994) and of the reflections about the new and fundamental object of the human contemporary reality, the visual, visual that he has studied through his book \"History of the Visual in the XXth Century\" (« Points histoire », Le Seuil, 2000). (...) Today, we entered with the Internet into the \"Time of accumulation\" and this book seems to be the first attempt to decode this new world of mass images in a global World.\"\n\n\nEight movies have been directed by Laurent Gervereau (1h45). They are distributed by in France and abroad for Gervereau's movies:\n\n"}
{"id": "39994392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39994392", "title": "List of films featuring slavery", "text": "List of films featuring slavery\n\nFilm has been the most influential medium in the presentation of the history of slavery to the general public. The American film industry has had a complex relationship with slavery, and until recent decades often avoided the topic. Films such as \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915) and \"Gone with the Wind\" (1939) became controversial because they gave a favorable depiction. In 1940, \"The Santa Fe Trail\" gave a strong condemnation of abolitionist John Brown's attacks on slavery. The American civil rights movement in the 1950s made defiant slaves into heroes.\n\nMost Hollywood films used American settings, although \"Spartacus\" (1960) dealt with an actual slave revolt in the Roman Empire known as the Third Servile War. It failed, and all the rebels were executed, but their spirit lived on according to the film. \"The Last Supper\" (\"La última cena\" in Spanish) was a 1976 film directed by Cuban Tomás Gutiérrez Alea about the teaching of Christianity to slaves in Cuba and emphasizes the role of ritual and revolt. \"Burn!\" takes place on the imaginary Portuguese island of Queimada (where the locals speak Spanish) and merges historical events that took place in Brazil, Cuba, Santo Domingo, Jamaica, and elsewhere.\n\nThe following dramatic and documentary films featuring slavery are listed alphabetically. (For movies portraying penal labour see the list linked from here.)\n\n\n<note name = \"while ... black\"> OK, i am disqualifyying myself from doing more about this than drawing attn to it and offering a possible draft for the change. I won't complain if someone thinks i'm a \"white phony liberal\", but i note my objection to the language i found in one of the entries, along the lines of \" marrying a white woman while possibly black\". IMO, the phrase \"driving [or whatever] while black\" is a well established term regarding oppression, and adapting it in the context of describing the film in question is too ambiguous between mockery of the rerm, and an unfamiliar extension of its use in labelling oppression, to be acceptable in an article. Discuss, please, and reword unless i'm mistaken.</ref>\n"}
{"id": "9270463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9270463", "title": "List of nursery rhymes", "text": "List of nursery rhymes\n\nThe term \"nursery rhyme\" emerged in the third decade of the nineteenth century although this type of children's literature previously existed with different names such as \"Tommy Thumb Songs\" and \"Mother Goose Songs\". The very first known book containing a collection of these texts was \"Tommy Thumb's Pretty Song Book\", which was written by M. Cooper and was published in 1744. The works of several scholars and collectors helped document and preserve these oral traditions as well as their histories. These include Iona and Peter Opie, Joseph Ritson, James Orchard Halliwell, and Sir Walter Scott.\n\nThe following is a list of English nursery rhymes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51618805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51618805", "title": "Madame E. Toussaint Welcome", "text": "Madame E. Toussaint Welcome\n\nMadame E. Toussaint Welcome, born Jennie Louise Van Der Zee (January 10, 1885 - 1956) was an African-American visual artist associated with the Harlem Renaissances. Van Der Zee who referred to herself as The Foremost Female artist of the Race, is best recognized as being among the first few African-American Women Filmmaker from the silent film industry. She and her Husband Ernest Toussaint Welcome were also known as the husband-and-wife team of their time. Working closely together, they establish their own art school, photographic studio and film organization, from those they produced films and paintings that recognized the African-American soldiers of World War l. The Film; a twelve part documentary was titled; Doing the Bit in the.\n\nVan Der Zee was born in Lenox, Massachusetts to John Van Der Zee and Susan Brister Van Der Zee. Before moving to Lenox, Massachusetts, her parents were maid and butler in New York to president Ulysses S. Grant. Van Der Zee attended Lenox High School and took private lessons in art and music in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Early in the 20th century, she moved to New York with her father and brothers; including the famous photographer, James Van Der Zee. She married Ernest Toussaint Welcome, an inventor and entrepreneur, on January 10, 1910 and they moved together in a brownstone in New York City where they established the Toussaint Conservatory of Art and Music, an art school and photographic studio. The first advertisement for the conservatory appeared in the NAACP journal's first issue, \"The Crisis\". In this issue Van Der Zee published a full-page advertisement for her art school and photographic studio where she also referred to herself in print as The Foremost Female Artist of the Race. Van Der Zee stood out during her time because she was the African-American owner of a business in Harlem; where there was many white resident, that focused on the black community\n\nThe couple made films and pictures that recognized African-American contributions to War World I. Under the banner of the Toussaint Motion Picture Exchange, they created a film titled \"Doing Their Bit\" in 1916, \"a twelve-part series shown in two-reel segments,\" that focused on African-American military participation in the war. Van Der Zee also owned the Toussaint Studio. With a continued effort to acknowledge African-American patriotism, Van Der Ze made \"Charge of the Colored Division: Somewhere in France,\" under The Toussaint Pictorial Company. The painting shows an African American war hero with his bayonet in the chest of a German soldier. Between 1917 and 1918 The Toussaint Pictorial Company published \"A Pictorial History of the Negro in the Great War,\" a memorial book that featured her work; \"Charge of the Colored Division. A Pictorial History of the Negro in the Great War\" also included pictures from governmental sources and a few uncredited photo.\n\nToussaint Pictorial Company published one million patriotic postcards of African-American or \"race\" soldiers. After the war ended, the War Savings Stamp Committee accepted Van Der Zee's painting \"Charge of the Colored Divisions\" for use as a poster. Van Der Zee and her husband copyrighted the work in August 1918. No physical copies of their work are known to exist. According to the Massachusetts Historical Society, Van Der Zee died in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "21547986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21547986", "title": "Music &amp; Letters", "text": "Music &amp; Letters\n\nMusic & Letters is an academic journal published quarterly by Oxford University Press with a focus on musicology. The journal sponsors the Music & Letters Trust, twice-yearly cash awards of variable amounts to support research in the music field.\n\nA. H. Fox Strangways established the journal in 1920 and served as editor-in-chief until 1937. Eric Blom served as editor from 1937 to 1950 and again from 1954 to 1959. Other editors-in-chief have included Richard Capell, J.A. Westrup, Denis Arnold, Edward Olleson, Nigel Fortune, John Whenham, and Tim Carter.\n"}
{"id": "28322204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28322204", "title": "Nepalese painting", "text": "Nepalese painting\n\nNepalese Painting marks the beginning with the religious paintings of Hindu and Buddhist culture. Those traditional paintings can be found in the form of either wall paintings, cloth paintings or manuscripts. They used conservative technique, style, and iconography in their works for centuries.\nNepalese paintings believed to have embraced western influences after 1850 with a work of Bhajuman [Chitrakar], a traditional artist who became acquainted with western Realism after visiting Europe. Bhajuman, also known as Bhajumacha Chitrakar, was a court painter of Jung Bahadur Rana, who visited Europe in 1850 after becoming Prime Minister of Nepal. As a member of the new Prime Minister's entourage, Bhajuman also visited Paris and London. Soon after the return, western Realism supposedly influenced Bhajuman's paintings, marking the start of modern trend. An unsigned painting - supposedly to have painted by Bhajuman - depicts a Thapa General in a full military regalia. This painting remained a pivotal example of considerable departure from an established traditional school of Nepali painting to western school of art practice. However, the recent discovery of the illustrations by Raj Man Singh Chitrakar (1797-1865) for his patron a British Resident Brian Houghton Hodgson, sheds light on the western Realism entering Nepal way before the influences brought in by Bhajuman Chitrakar.\n\nMithila Painting is practiced in the Mithila region of Nepal and India. This tradition dates back to the 7th century AD. Mithila painting is done with twigs, fingers, natural dyes and pigments. Artists make pictures of natural objects like sun, moon, and deities from mythological epics, royal courts, and weddings. Researchers have discovered much Buddhist art in caves of Mustang area which dates back to 12 century or earlier. Style, technique, materials and subject of painting differed with the ethnic origin of the artists. Artists from the Newar community made most of the paintings that illuminated Buddhist manuscripts and book covers as well as devotional paintings on cloth. Newari artists were renowned throughout Asia for the high quality of their workmanship. Newari painting style 'Beri' was famous in Tibet. Beri was adopted as Tibet’s universal painting style in the 14th century.\n\nThe remarkable entry of the western school of art practice is noticed in Nepali painting only after the return of two young artists Tej Bahadur Chitrakar 1898-1971 and Chandra Man Singh Maskey in late 1920s. They both joined Government School of Art in Calcutta to learn to paint by observing life and nature-concept of tonal effects, colors and the most important - the application and the use of modern paint mediums like oil, water, charcoal, pastel etc. Very few works of Chandra Man Singh Maskey are accessible to the public. However with the publication of the book Tej Bahadur Chitrakar - icon of transition written by his heir Madan Chitrakar in 2004 and a grand post-humous retrospective of Tej Bahadur Chitrakar \"Images of a Lifetime--: A Historical Perspective\" organised by Siddhartha Art Gallery in 2005 have emphasised on his contribution for the development of Nepali painting. Tej Bahadur Chitrakar played an important role practising in both traditional Nepali art as well as western ways of painting. Simultaneously he is also fondly remembered as a dedicated teacher who shared his knowledge to many aspiring artists of his time. Under the tutelage of Tej Bahadur, Dil Bahadur Chitrakar versed himself in various paint mediums especially pastel techniques whilst Amar Chitrakar became an expert in water color and oil and became one of the beloved Nepali artists.\n\nThe arrival of Lain Singh Bangdel (1919–2002) in 1961 marks as an introduction to Modern Art in Nepal. He brought with him, the exposure to Modern art movements from Paris to a country which was slowly opening to the world only after 1950s. With the patronage of King Mahendra, Lain Singh Bangdel introduced abstract art to the Nepali audience. In 1972 he was appointed as an academician of Royal Nepal Academy by King Birendra.\n\nJuddha Kala Pathshala was the only institute where art was taught formally during those days. Many of the young enthusiasts opted India to study art under various scholarship programs. After the return of young artists such as Uttam Nepali, Manuj Babu Mishra, Shashi Bikram Shah, Batsa Gopal Baidhya, Krishna Manandhar, Rama Nanda Joshi, Thakur Prasad Mainali, Deepak Shimkhada, Sushma Shimkhada, Pramila Giri, Indra Pradhan, Karna Narsingh Rana, K.K. Karmacharya, Shashi Kala Tiwari, Nepali art flourished into a collective modern phase. Artists like Kiran Manandhar, Karna Maskey, Ragini Upadhyay, Uma Shankar Shah, Pramesh Adhikari, Yuwak Tuladhar, Birendra Pratap Singh, Surendra Bhattarai, Sharad Ranjit succeeded as a young and vibrant generation during 1980s. K.K.Karmacharya had more worked to stretch out as new technique, collage and assemblage cf popular in Europe, in Nepal. Durga Baral practising in isolation in his home town Pokhara came as a surprise with his first solo exhibition in 1983 \"Chowk ra Tamsuk\". Though a self practised artist, his mastery in skill and execution surpassed many of his contemporaries. Karna Maskey passed away on September 14, 2016\n"}
{"id": "2583188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2583188", "title": "New Formalism", "text": "New Formalism\n\nNew Formalism is a late 20th- and early 21st-century movement in American poetry that has promoted a return to metrical and rhymed verse.\n\nThe term 'New Formalism' was first used in the article 'The Yuppie Poet' in the May 1985 issue of the AWP Newsletter, which was an attack on what was perceived as a movement returning to traditional poetic forms. Dawson's article accused the New Formalist poets not only of social conservatism, but also of yuppie consumerism. \n\nNew Formalism was a reaction against various perceived deficiencies in the practice of contemporary poets. In his 1987 essay \"Notes on the New Formalism,\" Dana Gioia wrote: \"the real issues presented by American poetry in the Eighties will become clearer: the debasement of poetic language; the prolixity of the lyric; the bankruptcy of the confessional mode; the inability to establish a meaningful aesthetic for new poetic narrative and the denial of a musical texture in the contemporary poem. The revival of traditional forms will be seen then as only one response to this troubling situation.\" For women formalists, the situation was complicated by gender; as Annie Finch wrote in 1994 in the Introduction to \"A Formal Feeling Comes: Poems in Form by Contemporary Women\", \"Readers who have been following the discussion of the \"New Formalism\" over the last decade may not expect to find such a diversity of writers and themes in a book of formal poems; the poems collected here contradict the popular assumption that formal poetics correspond to reactionary politics and elitist aesthetics ... The passion for form unites these many and diverse poets.\"This is 'New Formalism'.\n\nDespite the formal innovations of Modernism as exemplified in the work of T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound, and the widespread appearance of free verse in the early decades of the 20th century, many poets chose to continue working predominantly in traditional forms, such as Robert Frost as well as those poets in America sometimes associated with the New Criticism, including John Crowe Ransom, Robert Penn Warren and Allen Tate. During the 1960s, with a surge of interest in Confessional poetry, publication of formal poetry became increasingly unfashionable. The emergence of the Language poets in the 1970s was one reaction to the predominance of the informal confessional lyric. But language poetry was another step away from the traditions of metre and rhyme, and was seen by some as widening the divide between poetry and its public.\n\nAn early sign of a revival of interest in traditional poetic forms was the publication of Lewis Turco's \"The Book of Forms: A Handbook of Poetics\" in 1968. In the early 1970s X. J. Kennedy started publishing the short-lived magazine \"Counter/Measures\" which was devoted to the use of traditional form in poetry. A few other editors around this time were sympathetic to formal poetry, but the mainstream was against rhyme and meter.\n\nOne of the first rumbles of the conflict that was to provide the impetus to create New Formalism as a specific movement, came with the publication in 1977 of an issue of the Mississippi Review called 'Freedom and Form: American Poets Respond'. The late 1970s saw the publication of a few collections by poets working in traditional forms, including Robert B. Shaw's \"Comforting the Wilderness,\" (1977), Charles Martin's \"Room for Error,\" (1978) and Timothy Steele's \"Uncertainties and Rest\" (1979). In 1980 Mark Jarman and Robert McDowell started the small magazine \"The Reaper\" to promote narrative and formal poetry. In 1981 Jane Greer launched \"Plains Poetry Journal\", which published new work in traditional forms. In 1984 McDowell started Story Line Press which has since published some New Formalist poets. \"The Reaper\" ran for ten years. Frederick Feirstein's \"Expansive Poetry\" (1989) gathered various essays on the New Formalism and the related movement New Narrative, under the umbrella term 'Expansive Poetry'.\n\nFrom 1983 the onset of \"neoformalism\" was noted in the annual poetry roundups in the yearbooks of \"The Dictionary of Literary Biography\", and through the mid-1980s heated debates on the topic of formalism were carried on in several journals. 1986 saw the publication of Vikram Seth's \"The Golden Gate: A Novel in Verse\" and the anthology \"Strong Measures: Contemporary American Poetry in Traditional Forms\".\n\nIn 1990 William Baer started \"The Formalist\" and the first issue contained poems by, among others, Howard Nemerov, Richard Wilbur, and Donald Justice. The magazine ran twice a year for fifteen years, with the fall/winter 2004 issue being the last. \"The Formalist\" was succeeded by \"Measure: A Review of Formal Poetry,\" which is published biannually by the University of Evansville.\n\nSince 1995, West Chester University has held an annual poetry conference with a special focus on formal poetry and New Formalism. Each year the Robert Fitzgerald Prosody Award is awarded as part of the conference.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, poems in traditional forms were once again being published more widely, and the new formalist movement per se was winding down. Since then, the effects of new formalism have been observed in the broader domain of general poetry; a survey of successive editions of various general anthologies showed an increase in the number of villanelles included in the post-mid-'80s editions. The publication of books concerned with poetic form has also increased. Lewis Turco's \"Book of Forms\" from 1968 was revised and reissued in 1986 under the title 'New Book of Forms. Alfred Corn's \"The Poem's Heartbeat\", Mary Oliver's \"Rules of the Dance\", and Stephen Frye's \"The Ode Less Travelled\" are other examples of this trend. The widely used anthology \"An Exaltation of Forms: Contemporary Poets Celebrate the Diversity of Their Art\" (University of Michigan Press, 2002), edited by Annie Finch and Kathrine Varnes, defines formalist poetry as a form on a par with experimental, free verse, and even prose poetry. \n\nIn 2001 the American poet Leo Yankevich founded \"The New Formalist\", which published among others the poets Jared Carter and Keith Holyoak.\n\nInterest in the movement and in formal techniques continues, as the West Chester conference demonstrates, but the movement is not without its detractors. In the November/December 2003 issue of \"P. N. Review\", N. S. Thompson wrote: \"While movements do need a certain amount of bombast to fuel interest, they have to be backed up by a certain artistic success. In hindsight, the movement seems to be less of a poetic revolution and more a marketing campaign.\"\n\nThe 2004 West Chester Conference had a by-invitation-only critical seminar on 'Defining the Canon of New Formalism', in which the following anthologies were discussed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28653", "title": "Outline of sculpture", "text": "Outline of sculpture\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to sculpture:\n\nA sculpture – human-made three-dimensional art object.\n\nSculpture or sculpting – activity of creating sculptures. A person who creates sculptures is called a \"sculptor\".\n\nSculpture can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of sculpture\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46316692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46316692", "title": "Palm Sunday Handcraft Market", "text": "Palm Sunday Handcraft Market\n\nThe Palm Sunday Handcraft Market (Tianguis de Domingo de Ramos), held in Uruapan, is the largest event in the Mexican state of Michoacán dedicated to the sale of the state’s traditional handcrafts and is reputed to be the largest of its kind in Latin America. The event draws over 1,300 artisans who offer over a million pieces for sale, which represent all of the state’s major handcraft traditions. It also includes other events such as a handcraft competition, exhibition of indigenous dress, food and other traditions, concerts, dance and more. The event is centered on the very large main plaza of the city of Uruapan, but extends over to adjoining streets and to other plazas in the city.\n\nThe tianguis (open air market) runs during Holy Week, officially beginning on the day before Palm Sunday and runs until the day after Easter Sunday, with the most important day being Palm Sunday (Domingo de Ramos). This is a major vacation period in Mexico, and the event draws visitors from Mexico and abroad.\n\nIt is the largest handcrafts event in Michoacán, followed closely by the Día de Muertos Fair in Pátzcuaro, and it is claimed to be the largest of its kind in Latin America. In 2015, the event drew over 1,300 artisans from all over the state, especially the Purépecha highland region, from towns such as Tzintzuntzan, San José de Gracia, Capula, Huáncito, Patamban, Santo Tomas, Cocucho and Paracho. It is the most important event for the four major indigenous communities of Michoacán (Mazahua, Nahua, Otomi and Purépecha). However, not all vendors are the artisans themselves, some are resellers.\nThe tianguis fills the large main plaza (Plaza de Martíres de Uruapan) of the city and overflows to adjoining streets and other plazas such as Morelos Plaza, Huatapera Plaza and the Garcia Ortiz alleyway next to the Casa de Cultura (cultural center). Related events occurs in these areas as well as the Plaza de la Ranita, the Casa de Cultura, and the entrance to the Barranca de Cupatizio National Park.\n\nIn 2015, there were over one million pieces for sale, representing all of the major handcraft traditions. These include textiles and traditional clothing, miniatures, jewelry, toys, furniture, lacquered gourds, chests, leather goods, iron, other metals, and the various types of ceramics produced, and those from stiff fibers such as wicker and palm fronds. Most of the items for sale are of high quality and are of styles only found in Michoacan such as clay pots from Huancito with animal heads, needlework from Charan, pre Hispanic lacquerware (maque) from Uruapan, copper pieces from Santa Clara del Cobre and wooden masks from Pamatacuaro, but there are some stands selling mostly tourist and cheap items. For Palm Sunday, there are even more craftspeople, mostly Purépecha, on the atriums of the two main colonial churches, weaving palm fronds into intricate designs for churchgoers.\n\nOver its history, the tianguis proper has since been expanded with other cultural events such as music and dance performances, a parade of artisans, a food exhibition featuring the traditional cuisine of the Purépecha and more.\n\nThe week is inaugurated with a parade of artisans and others in traditional dress, representing the four indigenous peoples found in the state, representing 45 communities and 25 Michoacan municipalities. The parade also include artisans with examples of their wares such as those from Santa Clara del Cobre, Pamatacuaro and Paracho along with marching bands and mojigangas (large cartonería puppet figures) . The parade runs from the National Park to the center of the city along Culver City and Emilio Carranza streets, ending at the Casa de Cultura.\n\nThe Casa de Cultura host’s the state’s main handcraft competition, where winners are announced on Palm Sunday. In 2015, the competition awarded over a million pesos in prizes in 259 awards. On the same day there is the State Regional Costume Festival held at the Huatapera Museum, in which all four indigenous communities are represented, both in dress and traditions such as dance.\n\nAt the Plaza de la Ranita, there is a demonstration and sale of traditional Purépecha food, which includes pozole, corundas, atole, enchiladas, buñuelos, uchepos (tamales of sweet corn) and fish dishes. The goal of this is to provide example of more traditional and less tourist foods. Atole includes the atolenuitede from San Miguel Pomocuaran, which is salty and spice with serrano chili peppers. Churipo is a beef soup, atole de pinole (with toasted corn), tamales de chapata, made with amaranth seed.\nThe event is located in Uruapan, which has been an important commercial center since the pre Hispanic period because it is centered among the major Purépecha regions (Lake, Purepech highlands, Cañada de los Once Pueblos and Ciènega de Chapala), as well as between the highlands and the “Tierra Caliente,” the lower elevations that extend to the coast.\n\nThe area has been an important one for trade since the pre Hispanic period as it is centered among the major Purépecha regions (Lake, Purepech highlands, Cañada de los Once Pueblos and Ciènega de Chapala). The original tianguis was dedicated only to pottery. which lasted for two or three days on Melchor Ocampo Street onto Santiago Street and the Izazaga Plaza. Later, this area was remodeled to create the current Morelos Plaza. This posed a problem for the vendors until the current event was established in 1960.\n"}
{"id": "23275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23275", "title": "Pythagoras", "text": "Pythagoras\n\nPythagoras of Samos () was an Ionian Greek philosopher and the eponymous founder of the Pythagoreanism movement. His political and religious teachings were well known in Magna Graecia and influenced the philosophies of Plato, Aristotle, and, through them, Western philosophy. Knowledge of his life is clouded by legend, but he appears to have been the son of Mnesarchus, a seal engraver on the island of Samos. Modern scholars disagree regarding Pythagoras's education and influences, but they do agree that, around 530 BC, he travelled to Croton, where he founded a school in which initiates were sworn to secrecy and lived a communal, ascetic lifestyle. This lifestyle entailed a number of dietary prohibitions, traditionally said to have included vegetarianism, although modern scholars doubt that he ever advocated for complete vegetarianism.\n\nThe teaching most securely identified with Pythagoras is \"metempsychosis\", or the \"transmigration of souls\", which holds that every soul is immortal and, upon death, enters into a new body. He may have also devised the doctrine of \"musica universalis\", which holds that the planets move according to mathematical equations and thus resonate to produce an inaudible symphony of music. Scholars debate whether Pythagoras developed the numerological and musical teachings attributed to him, or if those teachings were developed by his later followers, particularly Philolaus of Croton. Following Croton's decisive victory over Sybaris in around 510 BC, Pythagoras's followers came into conflict with supporters of democracy and Pythagorean meeting houses were burned. Pythagoras may have been killed during this persecution, or escaped to Metapontum, where he eventually died.\n\nIn antiquity, Pythagoras was credited with many mathematical and scientific discoveries, including the Pythagorean theorem, Pythagorean tuning, the five regular solids, the Theory of Proportions, the sphericity of the Earth, and the identity of the morning and evening stars as the planet Venus. It was said that he was the first man to call himself a philosopher (\"lover of wisdom\") and that he was the first to divide the globe into five climatic zones. Classical historians debate whether Pythagoras made these discoveries, and many of the accomplishments credited to him likely originated earlier or were made by his colleagues or successors. Some accounts mention that the philosophy associated with Pythagoras was related to mathematics and that numbers were important, but it is debated to what extent, if at all, he actually contributed to mathematics or natural philosophy.\n\nPythagoras influenced Plato, whose dialogues, especially his \"Timaeus\", exhibit Pythagorean teachings. Pythagorean ideas on mathematical perfection also impacted ancient Greek art. His teachings underwent a major revival in the first century BC among Middle Platonists, coinciding with the rise of Neopythagoreanism. Pythagoras continued to be regarded as a great philosopher throughout the Middle Ages and his philosophy had a major impact on scientists such as Nicolaus Copernicus, Johannes Kepler, and Isaac Newton. Pythagorean symbolism was used throughout early modern European esotericism and his teachings as portrayed in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" influenced the modern vegetarian movement.\n\nNo authentic writings of Pythagoras have survived, and almost nothing is known for certain about his life. The earliest sources on Pythagoras's life are brief, ambiguous, and often satirical. The earliest source on Pythagoras's teachings is a satirical poem probably written after his death by Xenophanes of Colophon, who had been one of his contemporaries. In the poem, Xenophanes describes Pythagoras interceding on behalf of a dog that is being beaten, professing to recognize in its cries the voice of a departed friend. Alcmaeon of Croton, a doctor who lived in Croton at around the same time Pythagoras lived there, incorporates many Pythagorean teachings into his writings and alludes to having possibly known Pythagoras personally. The poet Heraclitus of Ephesus, who was born across a few miles of sea away from Samos and may have lived within Pythagoras's lifetime, mocked Pythagoras as a clever charlatan, remarking that \"Pythagoras, son of Mnesarchus, practiced inquiry more than any other man, and selecting from these writings he manufactured a wisdom for himself—much learning, artful knavery.\"\n\nThe Greek poets Ion of Chios () and Empedocles of Acragas () both express admiration for Pythagoras in their poems. The first concise description of Pythagoras comes from the historian Herodotus of Halicarnassus (), who describes him as \"not the most insignificant\" of Greek sages and states that Pythagoras taught his followers how to attain immortality. The writings attributed to the Pythagorean philosopher Philolaus of Croton, who lived in the late fifth century BC, are the earliest texts to describe the numerological and musical theories that were later ascribed to Pythagoras. The Athenian rhetorician Isocrates (436–338 BC) was the first to describe Pythagoras as having visited Egypt. Aristotle wrote a treatise \"On the Pythagoreans\", which is no longer extant. Some of it may be preserved in the \"Protrepticus\". Aristotle's disciples Dicaearchus, Aristoxenus, and Heraclides Ponticus also wrote on the same subject.\n\nMost of the major sources on Pythagoras's life are from the Roman period, by which point, according to the German classicist Walter Burkert, \"the history of Pythagoreanism was already... the laborious reconstruction of something lost and gone.\" Three lives of Pythagoras have survived from late antiquity, all of which are filled primarily with myths and legends. The earliest and most respectable of these is the one from Diogenes Laërtius's \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\". The two later lives were written by the Neoplatonist philosophers Porphyry and Iamblichus and were partially intended as polemics against the rise of Christianity. The later sources are much lengthier than the earlier ones, and even more fantastic in their descriptions of Pythagoras's achievements. Porphyry and Iamblichus used material from the lost writings of Aristotle's disciples and material taken from these sources is generally considered to be the most reliable.\n\nHerodotus, Isocrates, and other early writers agree that Pythagoras was the son of Mnesarchus and that he was born on the Greek island of Samos in the eastern Aegean. His father is said to have been a gem-engraver or a wealthy merchant, but his ancestry is disputed and unclear. Pythagoras's name led him to be associated with Pythian Apollo; Aristippus of Cyrene explained his name by saying, \"He spoke (, ) the truth no less than did the (, )\". A late source gives Pythagoras's mother's name as Pythaïs. Iamblichus tells the story that the Pythia prophesied to her while she was pregnant with him that she would give birth to a man supremely beautiful, wise, and beneficial to humankind. As to the date of his birth, Aristoxenus stated that Pythagoras left Samos in the reign of Polycrates, at the age of 40, which would give a date of birth around 570 BC.\n\nDuring Pythagoras's formative years, Samos was a thriving cultural hub known for its feats of advanced architectural engineering, including the building of the Tunnel of Eupalinos, and for its riotous festival culture. It was a major center of trade in the Aegean where traders brought goods from the Near East. According to Christiane L. Joost-Gaugier, these traders almost certainly brought with them Near Eastern ideas and traditions. Pythagoras's early life also coincided with the flowering of early Ionian natural philosophy. He was a contemporary of the philosophers Anaximander, Anaximenes, and the historian Hecataeus, all of whom lived in Miletus, across the sea from Samos.\n\nPythagoras is traditionally thought to have received most of his education in the Near East. Modern scholarship has shown that the culture of Archaic Greece was heavily influenced by those of Near Eastern cultures. Like many other important Greek thinkers, Pythagoras was said to have studied in Egypt. By the time of Isocrates in the fourth century BC, Pythagoras's alleged studies in Egypt were already taken as fact. The writer Antiphon, who may have lived during the Hellenistic Era, claimed in his lost work \"On Men of Outstanding Merit\", used as a source by Porphyry, that Pythagoras learned to speak Egyptian from the Pharaoh Amasis II himself, that he studied with the Egyptian priests at Diospolis (Thebes), and that he was the only foreigner ever to be granted the privilege of taking part in their worship. The Middle Platonist biographer Plutarch () writes in his treatise \"On Isis and Osiris\" that, during his visit to Egypt, Pythagoras received instruction from the Egyptian priest Oenuphis of Heliopolis (meanwhile Solon received lectures from a Sonchis of Sais). According to the Christian theologian Clement of Alexandria (), \"Pythagoras was a disciple of Soches, an Egyptian archprophet, as well as Plato of Sechnuphis of Heliopolis.\" Some ancient writers claimed, that Pythagoras learned geometry and the doctrine of metempsychosis from the Egyptians.\n\nOther ancient writers, however, claimed that Pythagoras had learned these teachings from the Magi in Persia or even from Zoroaster himself. Diogenes Laërtius asserts that Pythagoras later visited Crete, where he went to the Cave of Ida with Epimenides. The Phoenicians are reputed to have taught Pythagoras arithmetic and the Chaldeans to have taught him astronomy. By the third century BC, Pythagoras was already reported to have studied under the Jews as well. Contradicting all these reports, the novelist Antonius Diogenes, writing in the second century BC, reports that Pythagoras discovered all his doctrines himself by interpreting dreams. The third-century AD Sophist Philostratus claims that, in addition to the Egyptians, Pythagoras also studied under Hindu sages in India. Iamblichus expands this list even further by claiming that Pythagoras also studied with the Celts and Iberians.\n\nAncient sources also record Pythagoras having studied under a variety of native Greek thinkers. Some identify as a possible tutor. Hermodamas represented the indigenous Samian rhapsodic tradition and his father Creophylos was said to have been the host of rival of the poet Homer. Others credit Bias of Priene, Thales, or Anaximander (a pupil of Thales). Other traditions claim the mythic bard Orpheus as Pythagoras's teacher, thus representing the Orphic Mysteries. The Neoplatonists wrote of a \"sacred discourse\" Pythagoras had written on the gods in the Doric Greek dialect, which they believed had been dictated to Pythagoras by the Orphic priest Aglaophamus upon his initiation to the orphic Mysteries at Leibethra. Iamblichus credited Orpheus with having been the model for Pythagoras's manner of speech, his spiritual attitude, and his manner of worship. Iamblichus describes Pythagoreanism as a synthesis of everything Pythagoras had learned from Orpheus, from the Egyptian priests, from the Eleusinian Mysteries, and from other religious and philosophical traditions. Riedweg states that, although these stories are fanciful, Pythagoras's teachings were definitely influenced by Orphism to a noteworthy extent.\n\nOf the various Greek sages claimed to have taught Pythagoras, Pherecydes of Syros is mentioned most often. Similar miracle stories were told about both Pythagoras and Pherecydes, including one in which the hero predicts a shipwreck, one in which he predicts the conquest of a city, and one in which he drinks from a well and predicts a shipwreck. Apollonius Paradoxographus, a paradoxographer who may have lived in the second century BC, identified Pythagoras's thaumaturgic ideas as a result of Pherecydes's influence. Another story, which may be traced to the Neopythagorean philosopher Nicomachus, tells that, when Pherecydes was old and dying on the island of Delos, Pythagoras returned to care for him and pay his respects. Duris, the historian and tyrant of Samos, is reported to have patriotically boasted of an epitaph supposedly penned by Pherecydes which declared that Pythagoras's wisdom exceeded his own. On the grounds of all these references connecting Pythagoras with Pherecydes, Riedweg concludes that there may well be some historical foundation to the tradition that Pherecydes was Pythagoras's teacher. Pythagoras and Pherecydes also appear to have shared similar views on the soul and the teaching of metempsychosis.\n\nBefore 520 BC, on one of his visits to Egypt or Greece, Pythagoras might have met Thales of Miletus, who would have been around fifty-four years older than him. Thales was a philosopher, scientist, mathematician, and engineer, also known for a special case of the inscribed angle theorem. Pythagoras's birthplace, the island of Samos, is situated in the Northeast Aegean Sea not far from Miletus. Diogenes Laërtius cites a statement from Aristoxenus (fourth century BC) stating that Pythagoras learned most of his moral doctrines from the Delphic priestess Themistoclea. Porphyry agrees with this assertion, but calls the priestess Aristoclea (\"Aristokleia\"). Ancient authorities furthermore note the similarities between the religious and ascetic peculiarities of Pythagoras with the Orphic or Cretan mysteries, or the Delphic oracle.\n\nPorphyry repeats an account from Antiphon, who reported that, while he was still on Samos, Pythagoras founded a school known as the \"semicircle\". Here, Samians debated matters of public concern. Supposedly, the school became so renowned that the brightest minds in all of Greece came to Samos to hear Pythagoras teach. Pythagoras himself dwelled in a secret cave, where he studied in private and occasionally held discourses with a few of his close friends. Christoph Riedweg, a German scholar of early Pythagoreanism, states that it is entirely possible Pythagoras may have taught on Samos, but cautions that Antiphon's account, which makes reference to a specific building that was still in use during his own time, appears to be motivated by Samian patriotic interest.\n\nAround 530 BC, when Pythagoras was around forty years old, he left Samos. His later admirers claimed that he left because he disagreed with the tyranny of Polycrates in Samos, Riedweg notes that this explanation closely aligns with Nicomachus's emphasis on Pythagoras's purported love of freedom, but that Pythagoras's enemies portrayed him as having a proclivity towards tyranny. Other accounts claim that Pythagoras left Samos because he was so overburdened with public duties in Samos, because of the high estimation in which he was held by his fellow-citizens. He arrived in the Greek colony of Croton (today's Crotone, in Calabria) in what was then Magna Graecia. All sources agree that Pythagoras was charismatic and quickly acquired great political influence in his new environment. He served as an advisor to the elites in Croton and gave them frequent advice. Later biographers tell fantastical stories of the effects of his eloquent speeches in leading the people of Croton to abandon their luxurious and corrupt way of life and devote themselves to the purer system which he came to introduce.\n\nDiogenes Laërtius states that Pythagoras \"did not indulge in the pleasures of love\" and that he cautioned others to only have sex \"whenever you are willing to be weaker than yourself\". According to Porphyry, Pythagoras married Theano, a lady of Crete and the daughter of Pythenax and had several children with her. Porphyry writes that Pythagoras had two sons named Telauges and Arignote, and a daughter named Myia, who \"took precedence among the maidens in Croton and, when a wife, among married women.\" Iamblichus mentions none of these children and instead only mentions a son named Mnesarchus after his grandfather. This son was raised by Pythagoras's appointed successor Aristaeus and eventually took over the school when Aristaeus was too old to continue running it.\n\nThe wrestler Milo of Croton was said to have been a close associate of Pythagoras and was credited with having saved the philosopher's life when a roof was about to collapse. This association may been the result of confusion with a different man named Pythagoras, who was an athletics trainer. Diogenes Laërtius records Milo's wife's name as Myia. Iamblichus mentions Theano as the wife of Brontinus of Croton. Diogenes Laërtius states that the same Theano was Pythagoras's pupil and that Pythagoras's wife Theano was her daughter. Diogenes Laërtius also records that works supposedly written by Theano were still extant during his own lifetime and quotes several opinions attributed to her. These writings are now known to be pseudepigraphical.\n\nPythagoras's emphasis on dedication and asceticism are credited with aiding in Croton's decisive victory over the neighboring colony of Sybaris in 510 BC. After the victory, some prominent citizens of Croton proposed a democratic constitution, which the Pythagoreans rejected. The supporters of democracy, headed by Cylon and Ninon, the former of whom is said to have been irritated by his exclusion from Pythagoras's brotherhood, roused the populace against them. Followers of Cylon and Ninon attacked the Pythagoreans during one of their meetings, either in the house of Milo or in some other meeting-place. Accounts of the attack are often contradictory and many probably confused it with later anti-Pythagorean rebellions. The building was apparently set on fire, and many of the assembled members perished; only the younger and more active members managed to escape.\n\nSources disagree regarding whether Pythagoras was present when the attack occurred and, if he was, whether or not he managed to escape. In some accounts, Pythagoras was not at the meeting when the Pythagoreans were attacked because he was on Delos tending to the dying Pherecydes. According to another account from Dicaearchus, Pythagoras was at the meeting and managed to escape, leading a small group of followers to the nearby city of Locris, where they pleaded for sanctuary, but were denied. They reached the city of Metapontum, where they took shelter in the temple of the Muses and died there of starvation after forty days without food. Another tale recorded by Porphyry claims that, as Pythagoras's enemies were burning the house, his devoted students laid down on the ground to make a path for him to escape by walking over their bodies across the flames like a bridge. Pythagoras managed to escape, but was so despondent at the deaths of his beloved students that he committed suicide. A different legend reported by both Diogenes Laërtius and Iamblichus states that Pythagoras almost managed to escape, but that he came to a bean field and refused to run through it, since doing so would violate his teachings, so he stopped instead and was killed. This story seems to have originated from the writer Neanthes, who told it about later Pythagoreans, not about Pythagoras himself.\n\nAlthough the exact details of Pythagoras's teachings are uncertain, it is possible to reconstruct a general outline of his main ideas. Aristotle writes at length about the teachings of the Pythagoreans, but without mentioning Pythagoras directly. One of Pythagoras's main doctrines appears to have been \"metempsychosis\", the belief that all souls are immortal and that, after death, a soul is transferred into a new body. This teaching is referenced by Xenophanes, Ion of Chios, and Herodotus. Nothing whatsoever, however, is known about the nature or mechanism by which Pythagoras believed metempsychosis to occur.\n\nEmpedocles alludes in one of his poems that Pythagoras may have claimed to possess the ability to recall his former incarnations. Diogenes Laërtius reports an account from Heraclides Ponticus that Pythagoras told people that he had lived four previous lives that he could remember in detail. The first of these lives was as Aethalides the son of Hermes, who granted him the ability to remember all his past incarnations. Next, he was incarnated as Euphorbus, a minor hero from the Trojan War briefly mentioned in the \"Iliad\". He then became the philosopher Hermotimus, who recognized the shield of Euphorbus in the temple of Apollo. His final incarnation was as Pyrrhus, a fisherman from Delos. One of his past lives, as reported by Dicaearchus, was as a beautiful courtesan.\n\nAnother belief attributed to Pythagoras was that of the \"harmony of the spheres\", which maintained that the planets and stars move according to mathematical equations, which correspond to musical notes and thus produce an inaudible symphony. According to Porphyry, Pythagoras taught that the seven Muses were actually the seven planets singing together. In his philosophical dialogue \"Protrepticus\", Aristotle has his literary double say:\n\nPythagoras was said to have practiced divination and prophecy. In the visits to various places in Greece—Delos, Sparta, Phlius, Crete, etc.—which are ascribed to him, he usually appears either in his religious or priestly guise, or else as a lawgiver.\n\nAccording to Aristotle, the Pythagoreans used mathematics for solely mystical reasons, devoid of practical application. They believed that all things were made of numbers. The number one (the monad) represented the origin of all things and the number two (the dyad) represented matter. The number three was an \"ideal number\" because it had a beginning, middle, and end and was the smallest number of points that could be used to define a plane triangle, which they revered as a symbol of the god Apollo. The number four signified the four seasons and the four elements. The number seven was also sacred because it was the number of planets and the number of strings on a lyre, and because Apollo's birthday was celebrated on the seventh day of each month. They believed that odd numbers were masculine, that even numbers were feminine, and that the number five represented marriage, because it was the sum of two and three.\n\nTen was regarded as the \"perfect number\" and the Pythagoreans honored it by never gathering in groups larger than ten. Pythagoras was credited with devising the tetractys, the triangular figure of four rows which add up to the perfect number, ten. The Pythagoreans regarded the tetractys as a symbol of utmost mystical importance. Iamblichus, in his \"Life of Pythagoras\", states that the tetractys was \"so admirable, and so divinised by those who understood [it],\" that Pythagoras's students would swear oaths by it. Andrew Gregory concludes that the tradition linking Pythagoras to the tetractys is probably genuine.\n\nModern scholars debate whether these numerological teachings were developed by Pythagoras himself or by the later Pythagorean philosopher Philolaus of Croton. In his landmark study \"Lore and Science in Ancient Pythagoreanism\", Walter Burkert argues that Pythagoras was a charismatic political and religious teacher, but that the number philosophy attributed to him was really an innovation by Philolaus. According to Burkert, Pythagoras never dealt with numbers at all, let alone made any noteworthy contribution to mathematics. Burkert argues that the only mathematics the Pythagoreans ever actually engaged in was simple, proofless arithmetic, but that these arithmetic discoveries did contribute significantly to the beginnings of mathematics.\n\nBoth Plato and Isocrates state that, above all else, Pythagoras was known as the founder of a new way of life. The organization Pythagoras founded at Croton was called a \"school\", but, in many ways, resembled a monastery. The adherents were bound by a vow to Pythagoras and each other, for the purpose of pursuing the religious and ascetic observances, and of studying his religious and philosophical theories. The members of the sect shared all their possessions in common and were devoted to each other to the exclusion of outsiders. Ancient sources record that the Pythagoreans ate meals in common after the manner of the Spartans. One Pythagorean maxim was \"koinà tà phílōn\" (\"All things in common among friends\"). Both Iamblichus and Porphyry provide detailed accounts of the organization of the school, although the primary interest of both writers is not historical accuracy, but rather to present Pythagoras as a divine figure, sent by the gods to benefit humankind. Iamblichus, in particular, presents the \"Pythagorean Way of Life\" as a pagan alternative to the Christian monastic communities of his own time.\n\nTwo groups existed within early Pythagoreanism: the \"mathematikoi\" (\"learners\") and the \"akousmatikoi\" (\"listeners\"). The \"akousmatikoi\" are traditionally identified by scholars as \"old believers\" in mysticism, numerology, and religious teachings; whereas the \"mathematikoi\" are traditionally identified as a more intellectual, modernist faction who were more rationalist and scientific. Gregory cautions that there was probably not a sharp distinction between them and that many Pythagoreans probably believed the two approaches were compatible. The study of mathematics and music may have been connected to the worship of Apollo. The Pythagoreans believed that music was a purification for the soul, just as medicine was a purification for the body. One anecdote of Pythagoras reports that when he encountered some drunken youths trying to break into the home of a virtuous woman, he sang a solemn tune with long spondees and the boys' \"raging willfulness\" was quelled. The Pythagoreans also placed particular emphasis on the importance of physical exercise; therapeutic dancing, daily morning walks along scenic routes, and athletics were major components of the Pythagorean lifestyle. Moments of contemplation at the beginning and end of each day were also advised.\n\nPythagorean teachings were known as \"symbols\" (\"symbolon\") and members took a vow of silence that they would not reveal these symbols to non-members. Those who did not obey the laws of the community were expelled and the remaining members would erect tombstones for them as though they had died. A number of \"oral sayings\" (\"akoúsmata\") attributed to Pythagoras have survived, dealing with how members of the Pythagorean community should perform sacrifices, how they should honor the gods, how they should \"move from here\", and how they should be buried. Many of these sayings emphasize the importance of ritual purity and avoiding defilement. For instance, a saying which Leonid Zhmud concludes can probably be genuinely traced back to Pythagoras himself forbids his followers from wearing woolen garments. Other extant oral sayings forbid Pythagoreans from breaking bread, poking fires with swords, or picking up crumbs and teach that a person should always put the right sandal on before the left. The exact meanings of these sayings, however, are frequently obscure. Iamblichus preserves Aristotle's descriptions of the original, ritualistic intentions behind a few of these sayings, but these apparently later fell out of fashion, because Porphyry provides markedly different ethical-philosophical interpretations of them:\n\nNew initiates were allegedly not permitted to meet Pythagoras until after they had completed a five-year initiation period, during which they were required to remain silent. Sources indicate that Pythagoras himself was unusually progressive in his attitudes towards women and female members of Pythagoras's school appear to have played an active role in its operations. Iamblichus provides a list of 235 famous Pythagoreans, seventeen of whom are women. In later times, many prominent female philosophers contributed to the development of Neopythagoreanism.\n\nPythagoreanism also entailed a number of dietary prohibitions. It is more or less agreed that Pythagoras issued a prohibition against the consumption of beans and the meat of non-sacrificial animals such as fish and poultry. Both of these assumptions, however, have been contradicted. Pythagorean dietary restrictions may have been motivated by belief in the doctrine of metempsychosis. Some ancient writers present Pythagoras as enforcing a strictly vegetarian diet. Eudoxus of Cnidus, a student of Archytas, writes, \"Pythagoras was distinguished by such purity and so avoided killing and killers that he not only abstained from animal foods, but even kept his distance from cooks and hunters.\" Other authorities contradict this statement. According to Aristoxenus, Pythagoras allowed the use of all kinds of animal food except the flesh of oxen used for ploughing, and rams. According to Heraclides Ponticus, Pythagoras ate the meat from sacrifices and established a diet for athletes dependent on meat.\n\nWithin his own lifetime, Pythagoras was already the subject of elaborate hagiographic legends. Aristotle described Pythagoras as a wonder-worker and somewhat of a supernatural figure. In a fragment, Aristotle writes that Pythagoras had a golden thigh, which he publicly exhibited at the Olympic Games and showed to Abaris the Hyperborean as proof of his identity as the \"Hyperborean Apollo\". Supposedly, the priest of Apollo gave Pythagoras a magic arrow, which he used to fly over long distances and perform ritual purifications. He was supposedly once seen at both Metapontum and Croton at the same time. When Pythagoras crossed the river Kosas (the modern-day Basento), \"several witnesses\" reported that they heard it greet him by name. In Roman times, a legend claimed that Pythagoras was the son of Apollo. According to Muslim tradition, Pythagoras was said to have been initiated by Hermes (Egyptian Thoth).\n\nPythagoras was said to have dressed all in white. He is also said to have borne a golden wreath atop his head and to have worn trousers after the fashion of the Thracians. Diogenes Laërtius presents Pythagoras as having exercised remarkable self-control; he was always cheerful, but \"abstained wholly from laughter, and from all such indulgences as jests and idle stories\". Pythagoras was said to have had extraordinary success in dealing with animals. A fragment from Aristotle records that, when a deadly snake bit Pythagoras, he bit it back and killed it. Both Porphyry and Iamblichus report that Pythagoras once persuaded a bull not to eat beans and that he once convinced a notoriously destructive bear to swear that it would never harm a living thing again, and that the bear kept its word.\n\nRiedweg suggests that Pythagoras may have personally encouraged these legends, but Gregory states that there is no direct evidence of this. Anti-Pythagorean legends were also circulated. Diogenes Laërtes retells a story told by Hermippus of Samos, which states that Pythagoras had once gone into an underground room, telling everyone that he was descending to the underworld. He stayed in this room for months, while his mother secretly recorded everything that happened during his absence. After he returned from this room, Pythagoras recounted everything that had happened while he was gone, convincing everyone that he had really been in the underworld and leading them to trust him with their wives.\n\nAlthough Pythagoras is most famous today for his alleged mathematical discoveries, classical historians dispute whether he himself ever actually made any significant contributions to the field. Many mathematical and scientific discoveries were attributed to Pythagoras, including his famous theorem, as well as discoveries in the fields of music, astronomy, and medicine. Since at least the first century BC, Pythagoras has commonly been given credit for discovering the Pythagorean theorem, a theorem in geometry that states that \"in a right-angled triangle the square of the hypotenuse is equal [to the sum of] the squares of the two other sides\"—that is, formula_1. According to a popular legend, after he discovered this theorem, Pythagoras sacrificed an ox, or possibly even a whole \"hecatomb\", to the gods. Cicero rejected this story as spurious because of the much more widely held belief that Pythagoras forbade blood sacrifices. Porphyry attempted to explain the story by asserting that the ox was actually made of dough.\n\nThe Pythagorean theorem was known and used by the Babylonians and Indians centuries before Pythagoras, but it is possible that he may have been the first one to introduce it to the Greeks. Some historians of mathematics have even suggested that he—or his students—may have constructed the first proof. Burkert rejects this suggestion as implausible, noting that Pythagoras was never credited with having proved any theorem in antiquity. Furthermore, the manner in which the Babylonians employed Pythagorean numbers implies that they knew that the principle was generally applicable, and knew some kind of proof, which has not yet been found in the (still largely unpublished) cuneiform sources. Pythagoras's biographers state that he also was the first to identify the five regular solids and that he was the first to discover the Theory of Proportions.\n\nAccording to legend, Pythagoras discovered that musical notes could be translated into mathematical equations when he passed blacksmiths at work one day and heard the sound of their hammers clanging against the anvils. Thinking that the sounds of the hammers were beautiful and harmonious, except for one, he rushed into the blacksmith shop and began testing the hammers. He then realized that the tune played when the hammer struck was directly proportional to the size of the hammer and therefore concluded that music was mathematical. However, this legend is demonstrably false, as these ratios are only relevant to string length (such as the string of a monochord), and not to hammer weight.\n\nIn ancient times, Pythagoras and his contemporary Parmenides of Elea were both credited with having been the first to teach that the Earth was spherical, the first to divide the globe into five climactic zones, and the first to identify the morning star and the evening star as the same celestial object. Of the two philosophers, Parmenides has a much stronger claim to having been the first and the attribution of these discoveries to Pythagoras seems to have possibly originated from a pseudepigraphal poem. Empedocles, who lived in Magna Graecia shortly after Pythagoras and Parmenides, knew that the earth was spherical. By the end of the fifth century BC, this fact was universally accepted among Greek intellectuals.\n\nSizeable Pythagorean communities existed in Magna Graecia, Phlius, and Thebes during the early fourth century BC. Around the same time, the Pythagorean philosopher Archytas was highly influential on the politics of the city of Tarentum in Magna Graecia. According to later tradition, Archytas was elected as \"strategos\" (\"general\") seven times, even though others were prohibited from serving more than a year. Archytas was also a renowned mathematician and musician. He was a close friend of Plato and he is quoted in Plato's \"Republic\". Aristotle states that the philosophy of Plato was heavily dependent on the teachings of the Pythagoreans. Cicero repeats this statement, remarking that \"Platonem ferunt didicisse Pythagorea omnia\" (\"They say Plato learned all things Pythagorean\"). According to Charles H. Kahn, Plato's middle dialogues, including \"Meno\", \"Phaedo\", and \"The Republic\", have a strong \"Pythagorean coloring\", and his last few dialogues (particularly \"Philebus\" and \"Timaeus\") are extremely Pythagorean in character.\n\nAccording to R. M. Hare, Plato's \"Republic\" may be partially based on the \"tightly organised community of like-minded thinkers\" established by Pythagoras at Croton. Additionally, Plato may have borrowed from Pythagoras the idea that mathematics and abstract thought are a secure basis for philosophy, science, and morality. Plato and Pythagoras shared a \"mystical approach to the soul and its place in the material world\" and it is probable that both were influenced by Orphism. The historian of philosophy Frederick Copleston states that Plato probably borrowed his tripartite theory of the soul from the Pythagoreans. Bertrand Russell, in his \"A History of Western Philosophy\", contends that the influence of Pythagoras on Plato and others was so great that he should be considered the most influential philosopher of all time. He concludes that \"I do not know of any other man who has been as influential as he was in the school of thought.\"\n\nA revival of Pythagorean teachings occurred in the first century BC when Middle Platonist philosophers such as Eudorus and Philo of Alexandria hailed the rise of a \"new\" Pythagoreanism in Alexandria. At around the same time, Neopythagoreanism became prominent. The first-century AD philosopher Apollonius of Tyana sought to emulate Pythagoras and live by Pythagorean teachings. The later first-century Neopythagorean philosopher Moderatus of Gades expanded on Pythagorean number philosophy and probably understood the soul as a \"kind of mathematical harmony.\" The Neopythagorean mathematician and musicologist Nicomachus likewise expanded on Pythagorean numerology and music theory. Numenius of Apamea interpreted Plato's teachings in light of Pythagorean doctrines.\n\nGreek sculpture sought to represent the permanent reality behind superficial appearances. Early Archaic sculpture represents life in simple forms, and may have been influenced by the earliest Greek natural philosophies. The Greeks generally believed that nature expressed itself in ideal forms and was represented by a type (), which was mathematically calculated. When dimensions changed, architects sought to relay permanence through mathematics. Maurice Bowra believes that these ideas influenced the theory of Pythagoras and his students, who believed that \"all things are numbers\".\n\nDuring the sixth century BC, the number philosophy of the Pythagoreans triggered a revolution in Greek sculpture. Greek sculptors and architects attempted to find the mathematical relation (canon) behind aesthetic perfection. Possibly drawing on the ideas of Pythagoras, the sculptor Polykleitos writes in his \"Canon\" that beauty consists in the proportion, not of the elements (materials), but of the interrelation of parts with one another and with the whole. In the Greek architectural orders, every element was calculated and constructed by mathematical relations. Rhys Carpenter states that the ratio 2:1 was \"the generative ratio of the Doric order, and in Hellenistic times an ordinary Doric colonnade, beats out a rhythm of notes.\"\n\nThe oldest known building designed according to Pythagorean teachings is the Porta Maggiore Basilica, a subterranean basilica which was built during the reign of the Roman emperor Nero as a secret place of worship for Pythagoreans. The basilica was built underground because of the Pythagorean emphasis on secrecy and also because of the legend that Pythagoras had sequestered himself in a cave on Samos. The basilica's apse is in the east and its atrium in the west out of respect for the rising sun. It has a narrow entrance leading to a small pool where the initiates could purify themselves. The building is also designed according to Pythagorean numerology, with each table in the sanctuary providing seats for seven people. Three aisles lead to a single altar, symbolizing the three parts of the soul approaching the unity of Apollo. The apse depicts a scene of the poetess Sappho leaping off the Leucadian cliffs, clutching her lyre to her breast, while Apollo stands beneath her, extending his right hand in a gesture of protection, symbolizing Pythagorean teachings about the immortality of the soul. The interior of the sanctuary is almost entirely white because the color white was regarded by Pythagoreans as sacred.\n\nThe emperor Hadrian's Pantheon in Rome was also built based on Pythagorean numerology. The temple's circular plan, central axis, hemispherical dome, and alignment with the four cardinal directions symbolize Pythagorean views on the order of the universe. The single oculus at the top of the dome symbolizes the monad and the sun-god Apollo. The twenty-eight ribs extending from the oculus symbolize the moon, because twenty-eight was the same number of months on the Pythagorean lunar calendar. The five coffered rings beneath the ribs represent the marriage of the sun and moon.\n\nMany early Christians had a deep respect for Pythagoras. Eusebius ( 260 – 340 AD), bishop of Caesarea, praises Pythagoras in his \"Against Hierokles\" for his rule of silence, his frugality, his \"extraordinary\" morality, and his wise teachings. In another work, Eusebius compares Pythagoras to Moses. In one of his letter, the Church Father Jerome ( 347 – 420 AD) praises Pythagoras for his wisdom and, in another letter, he credits Pythagoras for his belief in the immortality of the soul, which he suggests Christians inherited from him. Augustine of Hippo (354 – 430 AD) rejected Pythagoras's teaching of metempsychosis without explicitly naming him, but otherwise expressed admiration for him. In \"On the Trinity\", Augustine lauds the fact that Pythagoras was humble enough to call himself a \"philosophos\" or \"lover of wisdom\" rather than a \"sage\". In another passage, Augustine defends Pythagoras's reputation, arguing that Pythagoras certainly never taught the doctrine of metempsychosis.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Pythagoras was revered as the founder of mathematics and music, two of the Seven Liberal Arts. He appears in numerous medieval depictions, in illuminated manuscripts and in the relief sculptures on the portal of the Cathedral of Chartres. The \"Timaeus\" was the only dialogue of Plato to survive in Latin translation in western Europe, which led William of Conches (c. 1080-1160) to declare that Plato was Pythagorean. In the 1430s, the Camaldolese friar Ambrose Traversari translated Diogenes Laërtius's \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\" from Greek into Latin and, in the 1460s, the philosopher Marsilio Ficino translated Porphyry and Iamblichus's \"Lives of Pythagoras\" into Latin as well, thereby allowing them to be read and studied by western scholars. In 1494, the Greek Neopythagorean scholar Constantine Lascaris published \"The Golden Verses of Pythagoras\", translated into Latin, with a printed edition of his \"Grammatica\", thereby bringing them to a widespread audience. In 1499, he published the first Renaissance biography of Pythagoras in his work \"Vitae illustrium philosophorum siculorum et calabrorum\", issued in Messina.\n\nIn his preface to his book \"On the Revolution of the Heavenly Spheres\" (1543), Nicolaus Copernicus cites various Pythagoreans as the most important influences on the development of his heliocentric model of the universe, deliberately omitting mention of Aristarchus of Samos, a non-Pythagorean astronomer who had developed a fully heliocentric model in the fourth century BC, in effort to portray his model as fundamentally Pythagorean. Johannes Kepler considered himself to be a Pythagorean. He believed in the Pythagorean doctrine of \"musica universalis\" and it was his search for the mathematical equations behind this doctrine that led to his discovery of the laws of planetary motion. Kepler titled his book on the subject \"Harmonices Mundi\" (\"Harmonics of the World\"), after the Pythagorean teaching that had inspired him. Near the conclusion of the book, Kepler describes himself falling asleep to the sound of the heavenly music, \"warmed by having drunk a generous draught... from the cup of Pythagoras.\"\n\nIsaac Newton firmly believed in the Pythagorean teaching of the mathematical harmony and order of the universe. Though Newton was notorious for rarely giving others credit for their discoveries, he attributed the discovery of the Law of Universal Gravitation to Pythagoras. Albert Einstein believed that a scientist may also be \"a Platonist or a Pythagorean insofar as he considers the viewpoint of logical simplicity as an indispensable and effective tool of his research.\" The English philosopher Alfred North Whitehead argued that \"In a sense, Plato and Pythagoras stand nearer to modern physical science than does Aristotle. The two former were mathematicians, whereas Aristotle was the son of a doctor\". By this measure, Whitehead declared that Einstein and other modern scientists like him are \"following the pure Pythagorean tradition.\"\n\nA fictionalized portrayal of Pythagoras appears in Book XV of Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", in which he delivers a speech imploring his followers to adhere to a strictly vegetarian diet. It was through Arthur Golding's 1567 English translation of Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" that Pythagoras was best known to English-speakers throughout the early modern period. John Donne's \"Progress of the Soul\" discusses the implications of the doctrines expounded in the speech and Michel de Montaigne quoted the speech no less than three times in his treatise \"Of Cruelty\" to voice his moral objections against the mistreatment of animals. William Shakespeare references the speech in his play \"The Merchant of Venice\". John Dryden included a translation of the scene with Pythagoras in his 1700 work \"Fables, Ancient and Modern\" and John Gay's 1726 fable \"Pythagoras and the Countryman\" reiterates its major themes, linking carnivorism with tyranny. Lord Chesterfield records that his conversion to vegetarianism had been motivated by reading Pythagoras's speech in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\". Until the word \"vegetarianism\" was coined in the 1840s, vegetarians were referred to in English as \"Pythagoreans\". Percy Bysshe Shelley wrote an ode entitled \"To the Pythagorean Diet\" and Leo Tolstoy adopted the Pythagorean diet himself.\n\nEarly modern European esotericism drew heavily on the teachings of Pythagoras. The German humanist scholar Johannes Reuchlin (1455–1522) synthesized Pythagoreanism with Christian theology and Jewish Kabbalah, arguing that Kabbalah and Pythagoreanism were both inspired by Mosaic tradition and that Pythagoras was therefore a kabbalist. In his dialogue \"De verbo mirifico\" (1494), Reuchlin compared the Pythagorean tetractys to the ineffable divine name YHWH, ascribing each of the four letters of the tetragrammaton a symbolic meaning according to Pythagorean mystical teachings.\n\nHeinrich Cornelius Agrippa's popular and influential three-volume treatise \"De Occulta Philosophia\" cites Pythagoras as a \"religious magi\" and indicates that Pythagoras's mystical numerology operates on a supercelestial level. The freemasons deliberately modeled their society on the community founded by Pythagoras at Croton. Rosicrucianism used Pythagorean symbolism, as did Robert Fludd (1574–1637), who believed his own musical writings to have been inspired by Pythagoras. John Dee was heavily influenced by Pythagorean ideology, particularly the teaching that all things are made of numbers. Adam Weishaupt, the founder of the Illuminati, was a strong admirer of Pythagoras and, in his book \"Pythagoras\" (1787), he advocated that society should be reformed to be more like Pythagoras's commune at Croton. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart incorporated Masonic and Pythagorean symbolism into his opera \"The Magic Flute\". Sylvain Maréchal, in his six-volume 1799 biography \"The Voyages of Pythagoras\", declared that all revolutionaries in all time periods are the \"heirs of Pythagoras\".\n\nDante Alighieri was fascinated by Pythagorean numerology and based his descriptions of Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven on Pythagorean numbers. Dante wrote that Pythagoras saw Unity as Good and Plurality as Evil and, in \"Paradiso\" XV, 56–57, he declares: \"five and six, if understood, ray forth from unity.\" The number eleven and its multiples are found throughout the \"Divine Comedy\", each book of which has thirty-three cantos, except for the \"Inferno\", which has thirty-four, the first of which serves as a general introduction. Dante describes the ninth and tenth bolgias in the Eighth Circle of Hell as being twenty-two miles and eleven miles respectively, which correspond to the fraction , which was the Pythagorean approximation of pi. Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven are all described as circular and Dante compares the wonder of God's majesty to the mathematical puzzle of squaring the circle. The number three also features prominently: the \"Divine Comedy\" has three parts and Beatrice is associated with the number nine, which is equal to three times three.\n\nThe Transcendentalists read the ancient \"Lives of Pythagoras\" as guides on how to live a model life. Henry David Thoreau was impacted by Thomas Taylor's translations of Iamblichus's \"Life of Pythagoras\" and Stobaeus's \"Pythagoric Sayings\" and his views on nature may have been influenced by the Pythagorean idea of images corresponding to archetypes. The Pythagorean teaching of \"musica universalis\" is a recurring theme throughout Thoreau's \"magnum opus\", \"Walden\".\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\nOnly a few relevant source texts deal with Pythagoras and the Pythagoreans; most are available in different translations. Later texts usually build solely upon information in these works.\n\nClassical sources\nModern secondary sources\n"}
{"id": "46192408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46192408", "title": "Queen Mimi", "text": "Queen Mimi\n\nQueen Mimi is a 2015 documentary film about the life of Marie Haist, an octogenarian homeless woman who lived in a Santa Monica laundromat for 18 years, directed by Yaniv Rokah and produced by Elliot V Kotek.\n\nThe film was selected for the Sarasota Film Festival. In May 2016 XLRator Media released the film worldwide.\n\n\n\"Queen Mimi\" is a 2016 soundtrack album from the documentary containing a song by Grammy Awards nominee Deana Carter titled \"Celebrate Life\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53693942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53693942", "title": "Readgeek", "text": "Readgeek\n\nReadgeek is an online book recommendations engine and social cataloging service launched in December 2010. The website allows users to search for books matching their individual taste making use of several algorithms. Taking ratings and metadata of prior read books into account, those algorithms help the site to learn about a users preferences. The service suggests books other users with similar tastes have enjoyed, rather than offering up books similar to the ones a user already ranked.\n\nIt is the first of its kind to give users a prediction of how much they will like almost any book. Users can also create reading lists, book discussions and follow the activities of other users. The company was invited in 2016 by the Dutch General Publishers Association to a worldwide innovation-competition for startups in the publishing industry. The website's offices are in Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "43110698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43110698", "title": "Syndell Studio", "text": "Syndell Studio\n\nSyndell Studio was an art gallery located in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles, California, between 1954 and 1956.\n\nSyndell Studio was founded in 1954 by Walter Hopps and Jim Newman, with Michael Scoles, poet Ben Bartosh and his wife Betty Brunt. It was located at 11756 Gorham Avenue, Brentwood, in a (no longer extant) building constructed from used pier pilings and remnants from a demolished Santa Monica beach club. According to oral history interviews with Hopps, Newman, and artist Edward Kienholz, the gallery was named after Maurice Sindel, a Midwestern farmer who died on the highway in Ohio on 6 June 1953. The accident was witnessed by Newman as he drove from Oberlin to Los Angeles. Hopps stated, \"It's just too absurd, that this man dies in obscurity. We're going to make him an artist. We're going to create work for him. We're going to put him in group shows. We're going to name our place after him, as though it had been his studio\".\n\nThe gallery's business cards were created by poet and printmaker Robert Alexander. Alexander and Wallace Berman designed invitations to exhibitions.\n\nOn 21 October 1956, \"Los Angeles Times\" art critic Jules Langsner wrote, \"For a glimpse of avant-garde art in Los Angeles, the place to go is Syndell Studios\".\n\nExhibitions held at Syndell Studio included:\n\nIn 1955 Syndell Studio co-organised with Gallery 6, San Francisco, the exhibition \"Action\" of abstract painting, which was held at the merry-go-round building on Santa Monica Pier. Syndell also co-organised the follow-up \"Action2\" (\"Action Squared\") exhibition, held in 1956 at Edward Kienholz's Now Gallery. In 1956, Syndell Studio was featured in the Los Angeles All-City Outdoor Art Festival at Barnsdall Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "82778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82778", "title": "Teatro Colón", "text": "Teatro Colón\n\nThe Teatro Colón (Spanish: \"Columbus Theatre\") is the main opera house in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It is considered one of the ten best opera houses in the world by National Geographic, and is acoustically considered to be amongst the five best concert venues in the world. The other venues are Berlin's Konzerthaus, Vienna's Musikverein, the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, and Boston's Symphony Hall.\n\nThe present Colón replaced an original theatre which opened in 1857. Towards the end of the century it became clear that a new theatre was needed and, after a 20-year process, the present theatre opened on 25 May 1908, with Giuseppe Verdi's \"Aïda\".\n\nThe Teatro Colón was visited by the foremost singers and opera companies of the time, who would sometimes go on to other cities including Montevideo, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo.\n\nAfter this period of huge international success, the theatre's decline became clear and plans were made for massive renovations. After an initial start of works to restore the landmark in 2005, the theatre was closed for refurbishment from October 2006 to May 2010. It re-opened on 24 May 2010, with a programme for the 2010 season.\n\nThe first Teatro Colón was designed by Charles Pellegrini, and proved to be a successful venue for over 30 years, with 2,500 seats with the inclusion of a separate gallery reserved only for people who were in mourning. The construction started in 1856 and completed in 1857. This was celebrated with an opening on April 27, 1857, with Verdi's \"La traviata\", just four years after its Italian premiere. The production starred Sofia Vera Lorini as Violetta and Enrico Tamberlik as Alfredo.\n\nThis theater was closed on September 13th 1888 to step aside for a new improved building, which was opened twenty years later on Libertad street, overlooking Plaza Lavalle. In that period of time, the 1890 crisis and its effects were the cause for the delay in the completion of this second theater.\n\nBefore the construction of the current Teatro Colón, opera performances were given in several theatres, of which the first Teatro Colón and the Teatro Opera were the most important. The principal company that performed at the Teatro Opera moved to the Teatro Colón in 1908. However, major companies also performed at the Teatro Politeama and the Teatro Coliseo which opened in 1907.\n\nThe theatre is bounded by the wide 9 de Julio Avenue (technically Cerrito Street), Libertad Street (the main entrance), Arturo Toscanini Street, and Tucumán Street. It is in the heart of the city on a site once occupied by Ferrocarril Oeste's \"Plaza Parque\" station.\n\nThe auditorium is horseshoe-shaped, has 2,487 seats (slightly more than the Royal Opera House in Covent Garden, London), standing room for 1,000 and a stage which is 20 m wide, 15 m high and 20 m deep. The low-rise building has 6 floors above ground and 3 below ground, 7 elevators with a facade of applied masonry. It has a large central chandelier with 700 light bulbs. The original architect was the Italian Francesco Tamburini; after his death it was completed by the Belgian architect Julio Dormal. The original auditorium \"had eight boxes with metal grilles and a separate entrance, so that those in mourning could still attend performances, but remain dignifiedly sequestered from public view\". \n\nThe Colon's acoustics are considered to be so good as to place it in the top five performance venues in the world. Luciano Pavarotti held a similar opinion.\n\nThe present theatre, the second with that name, opened on 25 May 1908, after twenty years under construction, and was inaugurated with \"Aida\" by the Italian company directed by Luigi Mancinelli and tenor Amedeo Bassi, soprano Lucia Crestani (as Aida). The second presentation was Thomas' \"Hamlet\" with the baritone Titta Ruffo During the inaugural season seventeen operas were performed with famous stars such as Ruffo, Feodor Chaliapin in Boito's \"Mefistofele\", Antonio Paoli in Verdi's \"Otello\".\n\nThe cornerstone of the present Teatro Colón was laid in 1889 under the direction of architect Francesco Tamburini and his pupil, Vittorio Meano, who designed a theatre in the Italian style on a scale and with amenities which matched those in Europe. However, delays followed due to financial difficulties, arguments regarding the location, the death of Tamburini in 1891, the murder of Meano in 1904 and the death of Angelo Ferrari, an Italian businessman who was financing the new theatre. The building was finally completed in 1908 under the direction of the Belgian architect Julio Dormal who made some changes in the structure and left his mark in the French style of the decoration. The bas-reliefs and busts on the facade are the work of sculptor Luigi Trinchero.\n\nThe theatre's opening on 25 May, the \"Día de la Patria\" in Argentina, featured a performance of Verdi's \"Aida\" and it quickly became a world-famous operatic venue rivaling La Scala and the Metropolitan Opera in attracting most of the world's best opera singers and conductors.\n\nThe Teatro was bombed by anarchists in 1910; Georges Clemenceau was present in Argentina during the attack. The bomb landed in the middle of the orchestra. Clemenceau describes the attack as follows: \"The horror can not be exaggerated. A senior official told me that he had never seen such puddles of blood. The wounded were carried off as best as possible, and the room was emptied by the cries of fury, and the material damage repaired during the day which followed, not a woman of society missed the representation of the morrow. It is a fine trait of character that particularly honors the female element of the Argentine nation. I am not quite sure that in Paris the hall would have been full in such cases.\" \n\nBallet stars performed at the Colón alongside Argentine dancers and classical instrumentalists. This included the prima ballerina, Lida Martinoli. When she retired from dancing, Martinoli began to choreograph. She died in Santa Fe. The tragic 1971 aviation death of two of the best known of these, Norma Fontenla and José Neglia, was commemorated with a monument in neighbouring Lavalle Square.\n\nWith excellent acoustics and modern stage areas, the theatre's interior design features a rich scarlet and gold decor. The cupola contains canvas painted in 1966 by the 20th-century artist Raúl Soldi during renovation work.\n\nIn recent years, given the political and economic circumstances of Argentina, the Teatro Colón has suffered considerably, but a period of slow recovery began. The theatre underwent massive phased remodelling of both interior and exterior, initially while the house was still open, but production activities ceased at the end of December 2006 to allow full refurbishment.\n\nInitially, \"what had been planned as an 18-month, $25-million renovation with 500 workers, scheduled for a May 2008 reopening with \"Aida\", became a three-year $100-million extravaganza with 1,500 workers including 130 professional architects and engineers.\" In addition, an exterior open-air stage was planned for an opening in 2011. In all, underwent updating, both inside and out.\n\nSome of the last performances immediately before closure of the theatre's building were \"Swan Lake\" on 30 September with the Ballet Estable del Teatro Colón and the Buenos Aires Philharmonic (\"Orquesta Filarmónica de Buenos Aires\"). and, on 28 October, the opera \"Boris Godunov\" was given featuring Orquesta Estable del Teatro Colón and the house chorus.\n\nThe theatre's final performance before its closure for refurbishment works in 2005 was a concert on 1 November starring folklore singer Mercedes Sosa in performance with the Argentine National Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Pedro Ignacio Calderón.\n\nWhile it was originally planned to reopen in time for the centenary on 25 May 2008, delays prevented this, and the house was finally reopened with a gala concert and 3D animations on 24 May 2010, the eve of its own 102nd birthday and the Argentina Bicentennial. Tchaikovsky's \"Swan Lake\" and Act 2 of Puccini's \"La bohème\" were performed. A private concert to test the acoustics attended by employees, architects, and others involved in the renovation occurred on 6 May 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2899225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899225", "title": "The Associate", "text": "The Associate\n\nThe Associate is a 1996 American comedy film directed by Donald Petrie and written by Nick Thiel, starring Whoopi Goldberg, Dianne Wiest, Eli Wallach, Tim Daly, and Bebe Neuwirth, alongside Austin Pendleton and Lainie Kazan.\n\nInvestment banker Laurel Ayres (Whoopi Goldberg) is a smart and single woman trying to make it up the Wall Street corporate ladder, until one day she finds out that she is passed over for a promotion because she is a woman. Unable to face the fact that her less intelligent male protege, Frank Peterson (Tim Daly), has now become her boss, she quits and tries to start up her own company only to find out that the male dominated world of Wall Street is not interested in taking an African American woman seriously, and thus is forced to create a fictional white man, Robert S. Cutty (inspired by a bottle of Cutty Sark) in order to be judged on her own merits. Ayres' financial wisdom is joined by the intelligent and computer-savvy secretary Sally Dugan (Dianne Wiest), who also was not properly recognized for her talents. Together they are able to become the most successful independent stockbrokers in the world while helping a struggling high-tech computer company stay afloat.\n\nHowever, the ruse eventually runs into problems, as Cutty is still getting credit for Ayres' great ideas, and competing firms and tabloid journalists are willing to do anything in order to bring the wealthy and elusive Cutty into the public and on their side. Thus Ayres is forced to get her best friend (who works at a nightclub as a female impersonator) to create an effective disguise in the mould of Marlon Brando to try to fool the naysayers; when that fails, she and Dugan decide to kill Cutty only to be charged with his murder. Frank uncovers the ruse and pretends that he is now the front man to world-famous Cutty.\n\nThe film ends with Ayres donning the Cutty disguise one last time to attend a meeting of the exclusive gentlemen's club to accept Cutty's awards and unmasking herself in order to teach the male-dominated industry the evils of racial and sexual discrimination. Ayres is finally given credit for her work and creates a huge business empire with her friends at the helm. Frank attempts to land a job with the business, only to be laughed off.\n\nThe film, a remake of René Gainville's 1979 French film of the same name, which, in turn, was based on Jenaro Prieto's 1928 novel \"The Partner\"\n\nThe soundtrack album for \"The Associate\" was released on October 15, 1996 by Motown Records. The soundtrack features Queen Latifah, Sophie B. Hawkins, American country singer Wynonna Judd, Canadian-American recording artist Tamia, CeCe Peniston, Kate Pierson and Cindy Wilson (both of The B-52s), Jamaican reggae singer Patra, and Swedish musician Louise Hoffsten.\n\n\"The Associate\" opened theatrically on October 25, 1996 in 1,781 venues and earned $4,261,304 in its opening weekend, ranking sixth in the domestic box office. At the end of its run, the film grossed $12,844,057 domestically.\n\nThe film received negative reviews from critics. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 28% rating based on 18 critics, with an average rating of 5.2/10.\n\nPeter Stack of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" finds Goldberg \"very funny playing out her scheme, which inevitably backfires\" and opines that \"it's the peripheral characters that give the film its comic momentum.\"\n\nIn contrast, Roger Ebert writing in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", gave this film two stars, calling it \"an uninspired recycling of the \"Tootsie\" formula. Though the film \"scores some good points against the male-dominated hierarchy of the business world,\" Ebert is ultimately unconvinced by the Cutty character.\n\n"}
{"id": "25098571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25098571", "title": "The Bargee", "text": "The Bargee\n\nThe Bargee is a 1964 British comedy film directed by Duncan Wood, and starring Harry H. Corbett, Hugh Griffith, Eric Sykes and Ronnie Barker. The screenplay was written by Ray Galton and Alan Simpson.\n\nHemel Pike (Harry H. Corbett) and his cousin Ronnie (Ronnie Barker) are two boatmen operating a canal-boat and its butty for British Waterways on the Grand Union Canal. Though the canals are struggling due to declining traffic, Hemel refuses to give up his traditional lifestyle. He also enjoys his reputation as a Don Juan, with girlfriends all across the canal network, something which Ronnie is envious of.\n\nHemel and Ronnie set out from Brentford to Boxmoor, repeatedly encountering an inept mariner (Eric Sykes). At Rickmansworth, Hemel visits one of his lovers, a barmaid called Nelly (Miriam Karlin), but he has to make a quick exit when she accidentally learns about his other girlfriends. Hemel and Ronnie reach Boxmoor where they deliver their cargo before travelling on empty towards Birmingham. En route, Hemel meets up with another girlfriend.\n\nHemel's next call is Leg O'Mutton Lock to meet Christine (Julia Foster), the daughter of lock-keeper Joe Turnbull (Hugh Griffith). Hemel thinks highly of Christine, but knows that Joe loathes the thought of his daughter becoming associated with a canal worker. On arrival, Ronnie takes Joe to the local pub to get him out of the way while Hemel and Christine get together. Christine, who hates the idea of living on a boat, attempts to persuade Hemel to leave the canal and get a job on land, but Hemel refuses, alarmed by her talk of marriage and settling down. Then he narrowly escapes from being caught by Joe who returns home drunk.\n\nAfter Hemel and Ronnie have left for Birmingham, Joe discovers that Christine is pregnant. Dismayed and angry, and having learned from Christine that the father is one of the canal workers, Joe drains the canal pound, padlocks the lock gates, and attaches a home-made bomb, and announces that he will prevent any traffic from passing through until the father comes forward. After various attempts to get him to stop have failed, Hemel and Ronnie arrive and, seeing the commotion and Christine being harassed by the locals, Hemel admits that he is the father. \n\nJoe allows Hemel to move in to his house until he and Christine can be married, and Hemel tries to find a job on land, but he misses the lifestyle and independence he enjoyed on the canals.\n\nAt their wedding reception, Christine tells Hemel that she has a wedding gift for him and takes him to the canal where he sees that his boats have been renamed \"Hemel\" and \"Christine\". She tells him that Ronnie has learned that all working-boats are to be withdrawn from the canals in 18 months time, and that she will agree to live on the boats on the canal with him and their baby until they are withdrawn, so that his family, who have been on the canals since the beginning, will be there at the end as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4902661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4902661", "title": "The Birth of Venus (Cabanel)", "text": "The Birth of Venus (Cabanel)\n\nThe Birth of Venus (French: \"Naissance de Venus\") is a painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel. It was painted in 1863, and is now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris. A second and smaller version (85 x 135.9 cm) from ca. 1864 is in Dahesh Museum of Art. A third (106 x 182.6 cm) version dates from 1875; it is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.\n\nShown to great success at the Paris Salon of 1863, \"The Birth of Venus\" was immediately purchased by Napoleon III for his own personal collection.\nThat same year Cabanel was made a professor of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts.\n\nCabanel's erotic imagery, cloaked in historicism, appealed to the propriety of the higher levels of society. Art historian and curator Robert Rosenblum wrote of Cabanel's \"The Birth of Venus\" that \"This Venus hovers somewhere between an ancient deity and a modern dream\"; he described \"the ambiguity of her eyes, that seem to be closed but that a close look reveals that she is awake ... A nude who could be asleep or awake is specially formidable for a male viewer\".\n\nCabanel was a determined opponent of the Impressionists, especially Édouard Manet, although the refusal of the academic establishment to realize the importance of new ideas and sources of inspiration would eventually prove to be the undoing of the Academy.\n\nAt the Salon of 1863, \"The Birth of Venus\" was one of a multitude of female nudes. Bathed in opalescent colors, the goddess Venus shyly looks to the viewer from beneath the crook of her elbow. Two years later, Manet presented his now renowned painting \"Olympia\" at the Salon as well. Today both hang in the Musee’d’ Orsay. Unlike Venus’s ethereal-like palette, Manet painted Olympia with pale, placid skin tone, and darkly outlined the figure. Her only seemingly modest gesture is her placement of her hand over her leg, though it is not out of shyness- one must pay before they can see. James Rubin writes of the two works: “The \"Olympia\" is often compared to Cabanel’s \"Birth of Venus\", for the latter is a far more sexually appealing work, despite its mythological guise… It is evident Manet’s demythologizing of the female nude was foremost a timely reminder of modern realities. The majority of critics attacked the painting with unmitigated disgust…: “What is this odalisque with the yellow belly, ignoble model dredged up from who knows where?” [And] “The painter’s attitude is of inconceivable vulgarity.”\nCabanel depicts personality, but in subtle ways through her relaxed posture and sleepy expression. Jenna-Marie Newberry writes of Venus: “The lightest of color used in \"The Birth of Venus\" alludes to the lightness and enlightenment of relaxation, amplifying the reclining nude’s placid demeanor and virginity. The contraposto twist of the figure with the melodramatic swoop of the arm over the face comes directly from his previous paintings … Venus herself takes over the entire front of the picture plane. Her hair has been deepened, adding more to her allure and purity.” It is as if the viewer is catching a glimpse of a goddess simply basking in the nature that enfolds her. She is calm, and asks nothing with her gaze. She is a part of her surroundings and the viewer is privy to behold upon the scene. By adhering to the accepted canon of the day, Cabanel produced a quite seductive painting of a mythological beauty presented in a calculated way that was acceptable for viewers at the time of its creation. Following the Salon it was said: “His dark-eyed heroines, thinly painted, usually in muted colors and immaculately drawn, were popular on both sides of the Atlantic”.\nOver time, Alexandre developed what would become his signature style. It was his attention to detail that made him popular in the nineteenth century. Cabanel was schooled at the Ecole des Beaux Arts under the painter François-Edouard Picot. Following his tutelage, he entered his first Salon in 1843 and won second place in the Prix de Rome in 1845. “Several major decorative commissions followed including the ceiling in the Cabinet des Dessins in the Louvre, and are typical of Cabanel’s talent for achieving sumptuous effects.” Initially famous for his mythological paintings, Cabanel also made a name for himself in Europe and abroad through his portraits. “Praised as a portraitist of women, Cabanel expressed that he was particularly adept at painting portraits of American women.”\n\nA portrait by Cabanel was a desirable commodity. He was a favored portraitist of the Emperor Napoleon himself, and he also refused to travel outside France to accept a commission. This required American elite to travel to Paris to sit for him. “Cabanel had the ability to lend his sitters an air of gentility and urbanity, and to give them an aristocratic allure … \" C.H Stranahan summarized the appeal of Cabanel’s style shortly before his death saying: “…He is especially the master of every grace attractive to woman; great judiciousness in rendering what his subtle reading of the human face gives him; great power and knowledge of hands, which leads to his throwing a veil of mystery over the expression, even leaving a softening vagueness…\" \nUpon his death in 1889, “Journals and dailies paid indulgent tribute to Cabanel in obituaries.” In one, he was called “the most distinguished painter of the grand style,” and “all commented on Cabanel’s liberal teaching\".\n\n\n\nAlexandre Cabanel. \"Birth of Venus\". http://library.artstor.org/library/secure/ViewImages?id=%2FThWdC8hIywtPygxFTx5TnQkVn0reA%3D%3D.\nAlexandre Cabanel, French, 1823-1889. \"The Birth of Venus\". http://library.artstor.org/library/secure/ViewImages?id=%2FDFMaiMuOztdLS04ejp4QXsvXQ%3D%3D.\nCabanal, Alexandre, French, 1824-1889. \"The Birth of Venus\". http://library.artstor.org/library/secure/ViewImages?id=8DlKaFsnKjQ6.\n"}
{"id": "3966352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3966352", "title": "The Monist", "text": "The Monist\n\n\"The Monist: An International Quarterly Journal of General Philosophical Inquiry\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of philosophy. It was established in October 1890 by Edward C. Hegeler. After ceasing publication in 1936, the journal resumed publication in 1962 and has been continually published since then. Each issue contains papers on a single, pre-announced topic.\n\nThe journal's editors-in-chief have included Paul Carus (1890-1919), Mary Hegeler Carus (1919-1936), Eugene Freeman (1962-1983), John Hospers (1983-1991), Barry Smith (University at Buffalo, 1992–2016), Fraser MacBride (University of Manchester, 2017-present). Since January 2015 the journal has been published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Hegeler Institute.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed:\n"}
{"id": "2449747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2449747", "title": "The Spirit of the Laws", "text": "The Spirit of the Laws\n\nThe Spirit of the Laws (French: \"De l'esprit des lois\", originally spelled \"De l'esprit des loix\"; also sometimes translated The Spirit of Laws) is a treatise on political theory, as well as a pioneering work in comparative law, published in 1748 by Charles de Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu. Originally published anonymously, partly because Montesquieu's works were subject to censorship, its influence outside France was aided by its rapid translation into other languages. In 1750 Thomas Nugent published the first English translation. In 1751 the Roman Catholic Church added \"De l'esprit des lois\" to its \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (\"List of Prohibited Books\"). Yet Montesquieu's treatise had an enormous influence on the work of many others, most notably: Catherine the Great, who produced \"Nakaz\" (\"Instruction\"); the Founding Fathers of the United States Constitution; and Alexis de Tocqueville, who applied Montesquieu's methods to a study of American society, in \"Democracy in America\". Macaulay offers us a hint of Montesquieu's importance when he writes in his 1827 essay entitled \"Machiavelli\" that \"Montesquieu enjoys, perhaps, a wider celebrity than any political writer of modern Europe.\"\n\nMontesquieu spent around twenty one years researching and writing \"De l'esprit des lois\", covering a huge range of topics including law, social life and the study of anthropology, and providing more than 3,000 commendations. In this treatise Montesquieu argued that political institutions needed, for their success, to reflect the social and geographical aspects of the particular community. He pleaded for a constitutional system of government with separation of powers, the preservation of legality and civil liberties, and the end of slavery.\n\nIn his classification of political systems, Montesquieu defines three main kinds: republican, monarchical, and despotic. As he defines them, Republican political systems vary depending on how broadly they extend citizenship rights—those that extend citizenship relatively broadly are termed democratic republics, while those that restrict citizenship more narrowly are termed aristocratic republics. The distinction between monarchy and despotism hinges on whether or not a fixed set of laws exists that can restrain the authority of the ruler: if so, the regime counts as a monarchy; if not, it counts as despotism.\n\nDriving each classification of political system, according to Montesquieu, must be what he calls a \"principle\". This \"principle\" acts as a spring or motor to motivate behavior on the part of the citizens in ways that will tend to support that regime and make it function smoothly.\nA political system cannot last long if its appropriate principle is lacking. Montesquieu claims, for example, that the English failed to establish a republic after the Civil War (1642–1651) because the society lacked the requisite love of virtue.\n\nA second major theme in \"The Spirit of the Laws\" concerns political liberty and the best means of preserving it. \"Political liberty\" is Montesquieu's concept of what we might call today personal security, especially in so far as this is provided for through a system of dependable and moderate laws. He distinguishes this view of liberty from two other misleading views of political liberty. The first is the view that liberty consists in collective self-government—i.e. that liberty and democracy are the same. The second is the view that liberty consists in being able to do whatever one wants without constraint. Not only are these latter two not genuine political liberty, he maintains, they can both be hostile to it.\n\nPolitical liberty is not possible in a despotic political system, but it is possible, though not guaranteed, in republics and monarchies. Generally speaking, establishing political liberty on a sound footing requires two things:\n\nThis book concerns explicit laws, not in unwritten cultural norms that may support the same goals. \"Montesquieu believed the hard architecture of political institutions might be enough to constrain overreaching power — that constitutional design was not unlike an engineering problem,\" as Levitsky and Ziblatt put it.\n\nThe third major contribution of \"The Spirit of the Laws\" was to the field of political sociology, which Montesquieu is often credited with more or less inventing. The bulk of the treatise, in fact, concerns how geography and climate interact with particular cultures to produce the spirit of a people. This spirit, in turn, inclines that people toward certain sorts of political and social institutions, and away from others. Later writers often caricatured Montesquieu's theory by suggesting that he claimed to explain legal variation simply by the distance of a community from the equator.\n\nWhile the analysis in \"The Spirit of the Laws\" is much more subtle than these later writers perceive, many of his specific claims lack rigour to modern readers. Nevertheless, his approach to politics from a naturalistic or scientific point of view proved very influential, directly or indirectly inspiring modern fields of political science, sociology, and anthropology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18441954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18441954", "title": "Thematic transformation", "text": "Thematic transformation\n\nThematic transformation (also known as thematic metamorphosis or thematic development) is a musical technique in which a leitmotif, or theme, is developed by changing the theme by using permutation (transposition or modulation, inversion, and retrograde), augmentation, diminution, and fragmentation. It was primarily developed by Franz Liszt and Hector Berlioz. The technique is essentially one of variation. A basic theme is reprised throughout a musical work, but it undergoes constant transformations and disguises and is made to appear in several contrasting roles. However, the transformations of this theme will always serve the purpose of \"unity within variety\" that was the architectural role of sonata form in the classical symphony. The difference here is that thematic transformation can accommodate the dramatically charged phrases, highly coloured melodies and atmospheric harmonies favored by the Romantic composers, whereas sonata form was geared more toward the more objective characteristics of absolute music. Also, while thematic transformation is similar to variation, the effect is usually different since the transformed theme has a life of its own and is no longer a sibling to the original theme.\n\nLiszt was not the first composer to use thematic transformation. Ludwig van Beethoven had already used thematic transformation in his Fifth Symphony, and Ninth Symphony, where the \"Ode to Joy\" theme is transformed at one point into a Turkish march, complete with cymbals and drums. Franz Schubert used metamorphosis to bind together the four movements of his \"Wanderer Fantasy\", a work which influenced Liszt greatly. However, Liszt perfected the technique by creating entire structures from metamorphosis alone. He may have already had experience in metamorphosing themes into various shapes in his early operatic fantasies and improvisations and been also led to this practice by the monothematicism Liszt employed in many of his original works, including most of the Transcendental Etudes.\n\nConservative critics in Liszt's time viewed thematic transformation as merely a substitution of repetition for the musical development demanded by sonata form. However, the evocative, atmospheric melodies which Romantic composers such as Liszt tended to prefer left him little choice. These melodies, complete in themselves, already bore all the emotion and musical interest which they could hold; therefore, they could not be developed any further. The only apparent course open was to substitute a form of repetition for true development—in other words, to say in a different way what had already been said and trust the beauty and significance of what are fundamentally variations to supply the place of the development section demanded by sonata form. Moreover, Liszt's own view of repetition was more positive than that of his critics. He wrote, \"It is a mistake to regard repetition as a poverty of invention. From the standpoint of the public it is indispensable for the understanding of the thought, while from the standpoint of Art it is almost identical with the demands of clarity, structure, and effectiveness.\"\n\nIn perfecting this compositional method, Liszt made what some critics consider a lasting contribution to the history of musical form since thematic transformation became a regular part of later 19th-century music, especially at the hands of Liszt's followers. Liszt authority Humphrey Searle points out that \"the serial methods of Schönberg, for instance, use precisely the methods of Liszt's thematic transformation within the framework of an entirely different [musical] language.\" Richard Wagner and Gustav Holst heavily used thematic transformation in their compositions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18015871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18015871", "title": "Three Critics of the Enlightenment", "text": "Three Critics of the Enlightenment\n\nThree Critics of the Enlightenment: Vico, Hamann, Herder is a collection of essays in the history of philosophy by 20th century philosopher and historian of ideas Isaiah Berlin. Edited by Henry Hardy and released posthumously in 2000, the collection comprises the previously published works \"Vico and Herder: Two Studies in the History of Ideas\" (1976) – an essay on Counter-Enlightenment thinkers Giambattista Vico and Johann Gottfried Herder – and \"The Magus of the North: J. G. Hamann and the Origins of Modern Irrationalism\" (1993), concerning irrationalist Johann Georg Hamann. \n\nBerlin's initial interest in the critics of the Enlightenment arose through reading the works of Marxist historian of ideas Georgi Plekhanov. The historian Zeev Sternhell has raised questions concerning the editing of the work, pointing to Henry Hardy's replacement of Berlin's citations of secondary sources with primary sources on a number of occasions. He suggests that Hardy's editing \"raises doubts as to Berlin's reading of his sources,\" and concludes with the following observation: \"The question whether systematically omitting the secondary sources and replacing them with texts that Berlin himself did not mention, which probably means he did not read them, can be considered a legitimate procedure is highly dubious.\"\n\nVico and Herder are portrayed by Berlin as alternatives to the rationalistic epistemology which characterized the Enlightenment. Berlin held that the agenda of the Enlightenment could be understood in a number of ways, and that to view it from the perspectives of its critics (i.e. Vico, Herder and Hamann) was to bring its distinctive and controversial aspects into sharp focus. \"Three Critics\" was one of Berlin's many publications on the Enlightenment and its enemies that did much to popularise the concept of a Counter-Enlightenment movement that he characterised as relativist, anti-rationalist, vitalist and organic, and which he associated most closely with German Romanticism.\n\nBerlin identifies Hamann as one of the first thinkers to conceive of human cognition as language – the articulation and use of symbols. Berlin saw Hamann as having recognised as the rationalist's Cartesian fallacy the notion that there are \"clear and distinct\" ideas \"which can be contemplated by a kind of inner eye\", without the use of language. Herder, coiner of the term \"Nazionalismus\" (nationalism) is portrayed by Berlin as conceiving of the nation as a \"people's culture,\" the unique way of life of a particular folk, bound by ties of kinship and ties to land, defined by their unique history.\n\n"}
{"id": "26933197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26933197", "title": "Zulma Bouffar", "text": "Zulma Bouffar\n\nZulma Madeleine Boufflar, known as Zulma Bouffar, (24 May 1841 – 20 January 1909), was a French actress and soprano singer, associated with the opéra-bouffe of Paris in the second half of the 19th century who enjoyed a successful career around Europe.\n\nAged only 6 Bouffar appeared in \"La fille bien gardée\" in Marseille, and followed this with successful performances in Lyon. Her father then toured with her around western Europe and Scandinavia. After her father’s death in 1854 she continued travelling, bringing into her repertoire some of the contemporary songs of Offenbach, who heard her sing in Hamburg in 1864. The same year Bouffar appeared at Bad Ems in Offenbach's \"Lischen et Fritzchen\", and repeated her success in Paris.\n\nFrom this time for about 12 years Bouffar was probably Offenbach's mistress – his longest extra-marital liaison. She created Nani in \"Les géorgiennes\", Jeannet in \"Les bergers\", Gabrielle in \"La Vie parisienne\", Drogan in \"Geneviève de Brabant\", Toto in \"Le château à Toto\", Fragoletto in \"Les Brigands\", Robin Luron in \"Le Roi Carotte\", Ginetta in \"Les braconniers\", Moschetta in \"Il signor Fagotto\" and Prince Caprice in \"Le voyage dans la lune\" – a range of men's and women's roles.\n\nIn 1873 Bouffar was reported in the Parisian press to have been considered for the title role of Bizet's new opera, \"Carmen\". Although the composer refuted the story, the singer did attend the premiere of the piece in 1875.\n\nFrom 1891-93 Bouffar became the manager of the Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique. In the latter part of her stage career, Bouffar appeared in operettas by Lecocq and Strauss, and sang around Europe. She announced her retirement from the stage in 1902.\n"}
