{"id": "20238168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20238168", "title": "14th Dalai Lama", "text": "14th Dalai Lama\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama (religious name: Tenzin Gyatso, shortened from Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso; born Lhamo Thondup, 6 July 1935) is the current Dalai Lama. Dalai Lamas are important monks of the Gelug school, the newest school of Tibetan Buddhism which was formally headed by the Ganden Tripas. From the time of the 5th Dalai Lama to 1959, the central government of Tibet, the Ganden Phodrang, invested the position of Dalai Lama with temporal duties.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama was born in Taktser, Amdo, Tibet, and was selected as the tulku of the 13th Dalai Lama in 1937 and formally recognized as the 14th Dalai Lama at a public declaration near the town of Bumchen in 1939. His enthronement ceremony as the Dalai Lama was held in Lhasa on 22 February 1940, and he eventually assumed full temporal (political) duties on 17 November 1950, at the age of 15, after the People's Republic of China's incorporation of Tibet. The Gelug school's government administered an area roughly corresponding to the Tibet Autonomous Region just as the nascent PRC wished to assert control over it.\n\nDuring the 1959 Tibetan uprising, the Dalai Lama fled to India, where he currently lives as a refugee. The 14th Dalai Lama received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. \"Time Magazine\" named him one of the \"Children of Mahatma Gandhi\" and his spiritual heir to nonviolence. He has traveled the world and has spoken about the welfare of Tibetans, environment, economics, women's rights, non-violence, interfaith dialogue, physics, astronomy, Buddhism and science, cognitive neuroscience, reproductive health, and sexuality, along with various topics of Mahayana and Vajrayana Buddhist teachings.\n\nLhamo Thondup was born on 6 July 1935 to a farming and horse trading family in the small hamlet of Taktser, or Chija Tagtser (Hongya (红崖村) in Chinese), at the edge of the traditional Tibetan region of Amdo. His family was of Monguor extraction. He was one of seven siblings to survive childhood. The eldest was his sister Tsering Dolma, eighteen years his senior. His eldest brother, Thupten Jigme Norbu, had been recognised at the age of eight as the reincarnation of the high Lama Taktser Rinpoche. His sister, Jetsun Pema, spent most of her adult life on the Tibetan Children's Villages project. The Dalai Lama has said that his first language was \"a broken Xining language which was (a dialect of) the Chinese language\", a form of Central Plains Mandarin, and his family did not speak the Tibetan language.\n\nFollowing reported signs and visions, three search teams were sent out to the north-east, the east, and the south-east to locate the new incarnation when the boy who was to become the 14th Dalai Lama was about two years old. Sir Basil Gould, British delegate to Lhasa in 1936, related his account of the north-eastern team to Sir Charles Alfred Bell, former British resident in Lhasa and friend of the 13th Dalai Lama. Amongst other omens, the head of the embalmed body of the thirteenth Dalai Lama, at first facing south-east, had turned to face the north-east, indicating, it was interpreted, the direction in which his successor would be found. The Regent, Reting Rinpoche, shortly afterwards had a vision at the sacred lake of Lhamo La-tso which he interpreted as Amdo being the region to search. This vision was also interpreted to refer to a large monastery with a gilded roof and turquoise tiles, and a twisting path from it to a hill to the east, opposite which stood a small house with distinctive eaves. The team, led by Kewtsang Rinpoche, went first to meet the Panchen Lama, who had been stuck in Jyekundo, in northern Kham. The Panchen Lama had been investigating births of unusual children in the area ever since the death of the 13th Dalai Lama. He gave Kewtsang the names of three boys whom he had discovered and identified as candidates. Within a year the Panchen Lama had died. Two of his three candidates were crossed off the list but the third, a \"fearless\" child, the most promising, was from Taktser village, which, as in the vision, was on a hill, at the end of a trail leading to Taktser from the great Kumbum Monastery with its gilded, turquoise roof. There they found a house, as interpreted from the vision—the house where Lhamo Dhondup lived.\n\nAccording to the 14th Dalai Lama, at the time the village of Taktser stood right on the \"real border\" between the region of Amdo and China. When the team visited, posing as pilgrims, its leader, a Sera Lama, pretended to be the servant and sat separately in the kitchen. He held an old rosary that had belonged to the 13th Dalai Lama, and the boy Lhamo Dhondup, aged two, approached and asked for it. The monk said \"if you know who I am, you can have it.\" The child said \"Sera Lama, Sera Lama\" and spoke with him in a Lhasa accent, in a dialect the boy's mother could not understand. The next time the party returned to the house, they revealed their real purpose and asked permission to subject the boy to certain tests. One test consisted of showing him various pairs of objects, one of which had belonged to the 13th Dalai Lama and one which had not. In every case, he chose the Dalai Lama's own objects and rejected the others. Thus, it was the Panchen Lama who first discovered and identified the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nFrom 1936 the Hui 'Ma Clique' Muslim warlord Ma Bufang ruled Qinghai as its governor under the nominal authority of the Republic of China central government. According to an interview with the 14th Dalai Lama, in the 1930s, Ma Bufang had seized this north-east corner of Amdo in the name of Chiang Kai-shek's weak government and incorporated it into the Chinese province of Qinghai. Before going to Taktser, Kewtsang had gone to Ma Bufang to pay his respects. When Ma Bufang heard a candidate had been found in Taktser, he had the family brought to him in Xining. He first demanded proof that the boy was the Dalai Lama, but the Lhasa government, though informed by Kewtsang that this was the one, told Kewtsang to say he had to go to Lhasa for further tests with other candidates. They knew that if he was declared to be the Dalai Lama, the Chinese government would insist on sending a large army escort with him, which would then stay in Lhasa and refuse to budge. Ma Bufang, together with Kumbum Monastery, then refused to allow him to depart unless he was declared to be the Dalai Lama, but withdrew this demand in return for 100,000 Chinese dollars ransom in silver to be shared amongst them, to let them go to Lhasa. Kewtsang managed to raise this, but the family was only allowed to move from Xining to Kumbum when a further demand was made for another 330,000 dollars ransom: one hundred thousand each for government officials, the commander-in-chief, and the Kumbum Monastery; twenty thousand for the escort; and only ten thousand for Ma Bufang himself, he said.\n\nTwo years of diplomatic wrangling followed before it was accepted by Lhasa that the ransom had to be paid to avoid the Chinese getting involved and escorting him to Lhasa with a large army. Meanwhile, the boy was kept at Kumbum where two of his brothers were already studying as monks and recognised incarnate lamas. The payment of 300,000 silver dollars was then advanced by Muslim traders en route to Mecca in a large caravan via Lhasa. They paid Ma Bufang on behalf of the Tibetan government against promissory notes to be redeemed, with interest, in Lhasa. The 20,000-dollar fee for an escort was dropped, since the Muslim merchants invited them to join their caravan for protection; Ma Bufang sent 20 of his soldiers with them and was paid from both sides since the Chinese government granted him another 50,000 dollars for the expenses of the journey. Furthermore, the Indian government helped the Tibetans raise the ransom funds by affording them import concessions.\n\nReleased from Kumbum, on 21 July 1939 the party travelled across Tibet in an epic journey to Lhasa in the large Muslim caravan with Lhamo Thondup, now 4 years old, riding with his brother Lobsang in a special palanquin carried by two mules, two years after being discovered. As soon as they were out of Ma Bufang's area, he was officially declared to be the 14th Dalai Lama by the Central Government of Tibet, and after ten weeks of travel he arrived in Lhasa on 8 October 1939. The ordination (pabbajja) and giving of the monastic name of Tenzin Gyatso were handled by Reting Rinpoche. There was very limited Chinese involvement at this time.\n\nTibetan Buddhists normally refer to him as Yishin Norbu (\"Wish-Fulfilling Gem\"), Kyabgon (\"Saviour\"), or just Kundun (\"Presence\"). His devotees, as well as much of the Western world, often call him \"His Holiness the Dalai Lama\", the style employed on the Dalai Lama's website. According to the Dalai Lama, he had a succession of tutors in Tibet including Reting Rinpoche, Tathag Rinpoche, Ling Rinpoche and lastly Trijang Rinpoche, who became junior tutor when he was nineteen. At the age of 11 he met the Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer, who became his videographer and tutor about the world outside Lhasa. The two remained friends until Harrer's death in 2006.\n\nIn 1959, at the age of 23, he took his final examination at Lhasa's Jokhang Temple during the annual Monlam or Prayer Festival. He passed with honours and was awarded the Lharampa degree, the highest-level \"geshe\" degree, roughly equivalent to a doctorate in Buddhist philosophy.\n\nHistorically the Dalai Lamas or their regents held political and religious leadership over Tibet from Lhasa with varying degrees of influence depending on the regions of Tibet and periods of history. This began with the 5th Dalai Lama's rule in 1642 and lasted until the 1950s (except for 1705–1750), during which period the Dalai Lamas headed the Tibetan government or Ganden Phodrang. Until 1912 however, when the 13th Dalai Lama declared the complete independence of Tibet, their rule was generally subject to patronage and protection of firstly Mongol kings (1642–1720) and then the Manchu-led Qing dynasty (1720–1912). In 1939, at the age of four, the present Dalai Lama was taken in a procession of lamas to Lhasa. The Dalai Lama's childhood was then spent between the Potala Palace and Norbulingka, his summer residence, both of which are now UNESCO World Heritage sites.\n\nChina claims that the Kuomintang government ratified the 14th Dalai Lama and that a Kuomintang representative, General Wu Zhongxin, presided over the ceremony. The British Representative Sir Basil Gould was also at the ceremony and bore witness to the falsity of the Chinese claim to have presided over it. He criticised the Chinese account as follows: \nTibetan scholar Nyima Gyaincain wrote that based on Tibetan tradition, there was no such thing as presiding over an event, but two things are clear, first, the word \"主持 (preside or organize)\" was used in many places in communication documents. The meaning of the word was different than what we understand today. Second, Wu Zhongxin spent a lot of time and energy on the event, his effect of presiding over or organizing the event was very obvious. However, according to Goldstein: \nChiang Kai Shek ordered Ma Bufang to put his Muslim soldiers on alert for an invasion of Tibet in 1942. Ma Bufang complied, and moved several thousand troops to the border with Tibet. Chiang also threatened the Tibetans with aerial bombardment if they worked with the Japanese. Ma Bufang attacked the Tibetan Buddhist Tsang monastery in 1941. He also constantly attacked the Labrang monastery.\n\nIn October 1950 the army of the People's Republic of China marched to the edge of the Dalai Lama's territory and sent a delegation after defeating a legion of the Tibetan army in warlord-controlled Kham. On 17 November 1950, at the age of 15, the 14th Dalai Lama was enthroned formally as the temporal ruler of Tibet.\n\nPanchen Lama and Dalai Lama had many conflicts in Tibetan history. Dalai Lama's formal rule was brief. He sent a delegation to Beijing, which, without his authorization, ratified the Seventeen Point Agreement for the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet. He worked with the Chinese government: in September 1954, together with the 10th Panchen Lama he went to the Chinese capital to meet Mao Zedong and attend the first session of the National People's Congress as a delegate, primarily discussing China's constitution. On 27 September 1954, the Dalai Lama was selected as a Vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, a post he officially held until 1964.\n\nIn 1956, on a trip to India to celebrate the Buddha's Birthday, the Dalai Lama asked the Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, if he would allow him political asylum should he choose to stay. Nehru discouraged this as a provocation against peace, and reminded him of the Indian Government's non-interventionist stance agreed upon with its 1954 treaty with China.\n\nAt the outset of the 1959 Tibetan uprising, fearing for his life, the Dalai Lama and his retinue fled Tibet with the help of the CIA's Special Activities Division, crossing into India on 30 March 1959, reaching Tezpur in Assam on 18 April. Some time later he set up the Government of Tibet in Exile in Dharamshala, India, which is often referred to as \"Little Lhasa\". After the founding of the government in exile he re-established the approximately 80,000 Tibetan refugees who followed him into exile in agricultural settlements. He created a Tibetan educational system in order to teach the Tibetan children the language, history, religion, and culture. The Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts was established in 1959 and the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies became the primary university for Tibetans in India in 1967. He supported the refounding of 200 monasteries and nunneries in an attempt to preserve Tibetan Buddhist teachings and the Tibetan way of life.\n\nThe Dalai Lama appealed to the United Nations on the rights of Tibetans. This appeal resulted in three resolutions adopted by the General Assembly in 1959, 1961, and 1965, all before the People's Republic was allowed representation at the United Nations. The resolutions called on China to respect the human rights of Tibetans. In 1963, he promulgated a democratic constitution which is based upon the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, creating an elected parliament and an administration to champion his cause. In 1970, he opened the Library of Tibetan Works and Archives in Dharamshala which houses over 80,000 manuscripts and important knowledge resources related to Tibetan history, politics and culture. It is considered one of the most important institutions for Tibetology in the world.\n\nIn 2016, there were demands from Indian politicians of different political parties and citizens to confer His Holiness The Dalai Lama the prestigious Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian honour of India which has only been awarded to a Non-Indian citizen twice in its history.\n\nAt the Congressional Human Rights Caucus in 1987 in Washington, D.C., the Dalai Lama gave a speech outlining his ideas for the future status of Tibet. The plan called for Tibet to become a democratic \"zone of peace\" without nuclear weapons, and with support for human rights. The plan would come to be known as the \"Strasbourg proposal\", because the Dalai Lama expanded on the plan at Strasbourg on 15 June 1988. There, he proposed the creation of a self-governing Tibet \"in association with the People's Republic of China.\" This would have been pursued by negotiations with the PRC government, but the plan was rejected by the Tibetan Government-in-Exile in 1991. The Dalai Lama has indicated that he wishes to return to Tibet only if the People's Republic of China agrees not to make any precondition for his return. In the 1970s, the then-Paramount leader Deng Xiaoping set China's sole return requirement to the Dalai Lama as that he \"must [come back] as a Chinese citizen ... that is, patriotism\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama celebrated his seventieth birthday on 6 July 2005. About 10,000 Tibetan refugees, monks and foreign tourists gathered outside his home. Patriarch Alexius II of the Russian Orthodox Church alleged positive relations with Buddhists. However, later that year, the Russian state prevented the Dalai Lama from fulfilling an invitation to the traditionally Buddhist republic of Kalmykia. Then President of the Republic of China (Taiwan), Chen Shui-bian, attended an evening celebrating the Dalai Lama's birthday at the Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall in Taipei. In October 2008 in Japan, the Dalai Lama addressed the 2008 Tibetan violence that had erupted and that the Chinese government accused him of fomenting. He responded that he had \"lost faith\" in efforts to negotiate with the Chinese government, and that it was \"up to the Tibetan people\" to decide what to do.\n\n30 Taiwanese aborigines protested against the Dalai Lama during his visit to Taiwan after Typhoon Morakot and denounced it as politically motivated.\n\nThe Dalai Lama is an advocate for a world free of nuclear weapons, and currently serves on the Advisory Council of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has voiced his support for the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, an organisation which campaigns for democratic reformation of the United Nations, and the creation of a more accountable international political system. \n\nGiving public talks for non-Buddhist audiences and interviews and teaching Buddhism to large public audiences all over the world, as well as to private groups at his residence in India, appears to be the Dalai Lama's main activity. Despite becoming 80 years old in 2015 he maintains a busy international lectures and teaching schedule. His public talks and teachings are usually webcast live in multiple languages, via an inviting organisation's website, or on the Dalai Lama's own website. Scores of his past teaching videos can be viewed there, as well as public talks, conferences, interviews, dialogues and panel discussions.\n\nThe Dalai Lama's best known teaching subject is the Kalachakra tantra which, as of 2014, he had conferred a total of 33 times, most often in India's upper Himalayan regions but also in western venues like Madison Square Garden in New York, Los Angeles, Washington DC, Barcelona, Graz, Sydney and Toronto. The Kalachakra (Wheel of Time) is one of the most complex teachings of Buddhism, sometimes taking two weeks to confer, and he often confers it on very large audiences, up to 200,000 students and disciples at a time.\n\nThe Dalai Lama is the author of numerous books on Buddhism, many of them on general Buddhist subjects but also including books on particular topics like Dzogchen, a Nyingma practice.\n\nIn Dalai Lama's essay, \"The Ethic of Compassion\" (1999), he expresses his belief that if we only reserve compassion for those that we love, we are ignoring the responsibility of sharing these characteristics of respect and empathy with those we do not have relationships with, which cannot allow us to \"cultivate love.\" He elaborates upon this idea by writing that although it takes time to develop a higher level of compassion, eventually we will recognize that the quality of empathy will become a part of life and promote our quality as humans and inner strength.\n\nHe frequently accepts requests from students to visit various countries worldwide in order to give teachings to large Buddhist audiences, teachings that are usually based on classical Buddhist texts and commentaries, and most often those written by the 17 pandits or great masters of the Nalanda tradition, such as Nagarjuna, Kamalashila, Shantideva, Atisha, Ayradeva and so on.\n\nThe Dalai Lama refers to himself as a follower of these Nalanda masters, in fact he often asserts that 'Tibetan Buddhism' is based on the Buddhist tradition of Nalanda monastery in ancient India, since the texts written by those 17 Nalanda pandits or masters, to whom he has composed a poem of invocation, were brought to Tibet and translated into Tibetan when Buddhism was first established there and have remained central to the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism ever since.\n\nAs examples of other teachings, in London in 1984 he was invited to give teachings on the Twelve Links of Dependent Arising, and on Dzogchen, which he gave at Camden Town Hall; in 1988 he was in London once more to give a series of lectures on Tibetan Buddhism in general, called 'A Survey of the Paths of Tibetan Buddhism'. Again in London in 1996 he taught the Four Noble Truths, the basis and foundation of Buddhism accepted by all Buddhists, at the combined invitation of 27 different Buddhist organisations of all schools and traditions belonging to the Network of Buddhist Organisations UK.\n\nIn India, the Dalai Lama gives religious teachings and talks in Dharamsala and numerous other locations including the monasteries in the Tibetan refugee settlements, in response to specific requests from Tibetan monastic institutions, Indian academic, religious and business associations, groups of students and individual/private/lay devotees. In India, no fees are charged to attend these teachings since costs are covered by requesting sponsors. When he travels abroad to give teachings there is usually a ticket fee calculated by the inviting organization to cover the costs involved and any surplus is normally to be donated to recognised charities.\n\nOn his frequent tours of India, Asia and the west he is also often invited to give, alongside his Buddhist teachings, public talks for non-Buddhist audiences. His talks and teaching activities in the U.S., for example, have included the following: on his April 2008 U.S. tour, he gave lectures at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, at Rutgers University (New Jersey) and Colgate University (New York) Later in July, the Dalai Lama gave a public lecture and conducted a series of teachings at Lehigh University (Pennsylvania). On 8 May 2011, the University of Minnesota bestowed upon him their highest award, an Honorary Doctor of Letters. and during a return trip to Minnesota on 2 March 2014, he spoke at Macalester College which awarded him an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree.\n\nDozens of videos of recorded webcasts of the Dalai Lama's public talks on general subjects for non-Buddhists like peace, happiness and compassion, modern ethics, the environment, economic and social issues, gender, the empowerment of women and so forth can be viewed in his office's archive.\n\nThe Dalai Lama met Pope Paul VI at the Vatican in 1973. He met Pope John Paul II in 1980, 1982, 1986, 1988, 1990, and 2003. In 1990, he met a delegation of Jewish teachers in Dharamshala for an extensive interfaith dialogue. He has since visited Israel three times, and in 2006 met the Chief Rabbi of Israel. In 2006, he met Pope Benedict XVI privately. He has met the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Robert Runcie, and other leaders of the Anglican Church in London, Gordon B. Hinckley, who at the time was the president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), as well as senior Eastern Orthodox Church, Muslim, Hindu, Jewish, and Sikh officials.\nThe Dalai Lama is also currently a member of the Board of World Religious Leaders as part of The Elijah Interfaith Institute and participated in the Third Meeting of the Board of World Religious Leaders in Amritsar, India, on 26 November 2007 to discuss the topic of Love and Forgiveness.\n\nOn 6 January 2009, the Dalai Lama inaugurated an interfaith \"World Religions-Dialogue and Symphony\" conference at Gujarat's Mahuva religions\", according to Morari Bapu.\n\nOn 12 May 2010 the Dalai Lama, joined by a panel of select scholars, officially launched the Common Ground Project, in Bloomington, Indiana (USA), which was planned by himself and Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad of Jordan during several years of personal conversations. The project is based on the book \"Common Ground between Islam and Buddhism\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama's lifelong interest in science and technology dates from his childhood in Lhasa, Tibet, when he was fascinated by mechanical objects like clocks, watches, telescopes, film projectors, clockwork soldiers and motor cars, and loved to repair, disassemble and reassemble them. Once, observing the moon through a telescope as a child, he realised it was a crater-pocked lump of rock and not a heavenly body emitting its own light as Tibetan cosmologists had taught him. He has also said that had he not been brought up as a monk he would probably have been an engineer. On his first trip to the west in 1973 he asked to visit Cambridge University's astrophysics department in the UK and he sought out renowned scientists such as Sir Karl Popper, David Bohm and Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, who taught him the basics of science.\n\nThe Dalai Lama sees important common ground between science and Buddhism in having the same approach to challenge dogma on the basis of empirical evidence that comes from observation and analysis of phenomena.\n\nHis growing wish to develop meaningful scientific dialogue to explore the Buddhism and science interface led to invitations for him to attend relevant conferences on his visits to the west, including the Alpbach Symposia on Consciousness in 1983 where he met and had discussions with the late Chilean neuroscientist Francisco J. Varela. Also in 1983, the American social entrepreneur and innovator R. Adam Engle, who had become aware of the Dalai Lama's deep interest in science, was already considering the idea of facilitating for him a serious dialogue with a selection of appropriate scientists. In 1984 Engle formally offered to the Dalai Lama's office to organise a week-long, formal dialogue for him with a suitable team of scientists, provided that the Dalai Lama would wish to fully participate in such a dialogue. Within 48 hours the Dalai Lama confirmed to Engle that he was \"truly interested in participating in something substantial about science\" so Engle proceeded with launching the project. Francisco Varela, having heard about Engle's proposal, then called him to tell him of his earlier discussions with the Dalai Lama and to offer his scientific collaboration to the project. Engle accepted, and Varela assisted him to assemble his team of six specialist scientists for the first 'Mind and Life' dialogue on the cognitive sciences, which was eventually held with the Dalai Lama at his residence in Dharamsala in 1987. This five-day event was so successful that at the end the Dalai Lama told Engle he would very much like to repeat it again in the future. Engle then started work on arranging a second dialogue, this time with neuroscientists in California, and the discussions from the first event were edited and published as Mind and Life's first book, \"\"Gentle Bridges: Conversations with the Dalai Lama on the Sciences of Mind\".\"\n\nAs Mind and Life Institute's remit expanded, Engle formalised the organisation as a non-profit foundation after the third dialogue, held in 1990, which initiated the undertaking of neurobiological research programmes in the United States under scientific conditions. Over the ensuing decades, as of 2014 at least 28 dialogues between the Dalai Lama and panels of various world-renowned scientists have followed, held in various countries and covering diverse themes, from the nature of consciousness to cosmology and from quantum mechanics to the neuroplasticity of the brain. Sponsors and partners in these dialogues have included the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins University, the Mayo Clinic and Zurich University.\n\nApart from time spent teaching Buddhism and fulfilling responsibilities to his Tibetan followers, the Dalai Lama has probably spent, and continues to spend, more of his time and resources investigating the interface between Buddhism and science through the ongoing series of Mind and Life dialogues and its spin-offs than on any other single activity. As the Institute's Cofounder and the Honorary chairman he has personally presided over and participated in all its dialogues, which continue to expand worldwide.\n\nThese activities have given rise to dozens of DVD sets of the dialogues and books he has authored on them such as Ethics for the New Millennium and The Universe in a Single Atom, as well as scientific papers and university research programmes. On the Tibetan and Buddhist side, science subjects have been added to the curriculum for Tibetan monastic educational institutions and scholarship. On the Western side, university and research programmes initiated by these dialogues and funded with millions of dollars in grants from the Dalai Lama Trust include the Emory-Tibet Partnership, Stanford School of Medicine's Centre for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education (CCARES) and the Centre for Investigating Healthy Minds, amongst others.\n\nIn particular, the Mind and Life Education Humanities & Social Sciences initiatives have been instrumental in developing the emerging field of Contemplative Science, by researching, for example, the effects of contemplative practice on the human brain, behaviour and biology.\n\nIn his 2005 book \"The Universe in a Single Atom\" and elsewhere, and to mark his commitment to scientific truth and its ultimate ascendancy over religious belief, unusually for a major religious leader the Dalai Lama advises his Buddhist followers: \"If scientific analysis were conclusively to demonstrate certain claims in Buddhism to be false, then we must accept the findings of science and abandon those claims.\" He has also cited examples of archaic Buddhist ideas he has abandoned himself on this basis.\n\nThese activities have even had an impact in the Chinese capital. In 2013 an 'academic dialogue' with a Chinese scientist, a Tibetan 'living Buddha' and a Professor of Religion took place in Beijing. Entitled \"High-end dialogue: ancient Buddhism and modern science\" it addressed the same considerations that interest the Dalai Lama, described as 'discussing about the similarities between Buddhism and modern science'.\n\nThe Dalai Lama uses various meditation techniques, including analytic meditation. He has said that the aim of meditation is \"to maintain a very full state of alertness and mindfulness, and then try to see the natural state of your consciousness.\"\n\nThe Dalai Lama has shown a nuanced position on abortion. He explained that, from the perspective of the Buddhist precepts, abortion is an act of killing. He has also clarified that in certain cases abortion could be considered ethically acceptable \"if the unborn child will be retarded or if the birth will create serious problems for the parent\", which could only be determined on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe Dalai Lama says that he is active in spreading India's message of nonviolence and religious harmony throughout the world. \"I am the messenger of India's ancient thoughts the world over.\" He has said that democracy has deep roots in India. He says he considers India the master and Tibet its disciple, as great scholars went from India to Tibet to teach Buddhism. He has noted that millions of people lost their lives in violence and the economies of many countries were ruined due to conflicts in the 20th century. \"Let the 21st century be a century of tolerance and dialogue.\"\n\nIn 1993, the Dalai Lama attended the World Conference on Human Rights and made a speech titled \"Human Rights and Universal Responsibility\".\n\nIn 2001, he answered the question of a girl in a Seattle school by saying that it is permissible to shoot someone with a gun in self-defense if that person was \"trying to kill you,\" and he emphasized that the shot should not be fatal.\n\nIn April 2013, the Dalai Lama openly criticised Buddhist monks' attacks on Muslims in Myanmar \"Buddha always teaches us about forgiveness, tolerance, compassion. If from one corner of your mind, some emotion makes you want to hit, or want to kill, then please remember Buddha's faith. We are followers of Buddha.\" He said that \"All problems must be solved through dialogue, through talk. The use of violence is outdated, and never solves problems.\" In May 2013, he said \"Really, killing people in the name of religion is unthinkable, very sad.\" In May 2015, the Dalai Lama publicly called on Myanmar's Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi to do more to help the Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar, claiming that he had previously urged her to address the plight of the Rohingya in private during two separate meetings and that she had resisted his urging.\n\nIn response to the death of Chinese Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo, who died of organ failure while in government custody, the Dalai Lama issued the following statement on 14 July 2017, \"I am deeply saddened to learn that fellow Nobel Laureate Liu Xiaobo has passed away while undergoing a lengthy prison sentence ... It is my belief that Nobel Laureate Liu Xiaobo's unceasing efforts in the cause of freedom will bear fruit before long.\"\n\nThe Dalai Lama advocates compassion for animals and frequently urges people to try vegetarianism or at least reduce their consumption of meat. In Tibet, where historically meat was the most common food, most monks historically have been omnivores, including the Dalai Lamas. The Fourteenth Dalai Lama was raised in a meat-eating family but converted to vegetarianism after arriving in India, where vegetables are much more easily available. He spent many years as a vegetarian, but after contracting hepatitis in India and suffering from weakness, his doctors ordered him to eat meat on alternating days, which he did for several years. He tried switching back to a vegetarian diet, but once again returned to limited consumption of meat. This attracted public attention when, during a visit to the White House, he was offered a vegetarian menu but declined by replying, as he is known to do on occasion when dining in the company of non-vegetarians, \"I'm a Tibetan monk, not a vegetarian\". His own home kitchen, however, is completely vegetarian.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has referred to himself as a Marxist and has articulated criticisms of capitalism.\n\nHe reports hearing of communism when he was very young, but only in the context of the destruction of Communist Mongolia. It was only when he went on his trip to Beijing that he learned about Marxist theory from his interpreter Baba Phuntsog Wangyal. At that time, he reports, \"I was so attracted to Marxism, I even expressed my wish to become a Communist Party member\", citing his favorite concepts of self-sufficiency and equal distribution of wealth. He does not believe that China implemented \"true Marxist policy\", and thinks the historical communist states such as the Soviet Union \"were far more concerned with their narrow national interests than with the Workers' International\". Moreover, he believes one flaw of historically \"Marxist regimes\" is that they place too much emphasis on destroying the ruling class, and not enough on compassion. Despite this, he finds Marxism superior to capitalism, believing the latter is only concerned with \"how to make profits\", whereas the former has \"moral ethics\". Stating in 1993:\n\nThe Dalai Lama is outspoken in his concerns about environmental problems, frequently giving public talks on themes related to the environment. He has pointed out that many rivers in Asia originate in Tibet, and that the melting of Himalayan glaciers could affect the countries in which the rivers flow. He acknowledged official Chinese laws against deforestation in Tibet, but lamented they can be ignored due to possible corruption. He was quoted as saying \"ecology should be part of our daily life\"; personally, he takes showers instead of baths, and turns lights off when he leaves a room. Around 2005, he started campaigning for wildlife conservation, including by issuing a religious ruling against wearing tiger and leopard skins as garments. The Dalai Lama supports the anti-whaling position in the whaling controversy, but has criticized the activities of groups such as the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society (which carries out acts of what it calls aggressive nonviolence against property). Before the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference, he urged national leaders to put aside domestic concerns and take collective action against climate change.\n\nA monk since childhood, the Dalai Lama has said that sex offers fleeting satisfaction and leads to trouble later, while chastity offers a better life and \"more independence, more freedom\". He has observed that problems arising from conjugal life sometimes even lead to suicide or murder. He has asserted that all religions have the same view about adultery.\n\nIn his discussions of the traditional Buddhist view on appropriate sexual behavior, he explains the concept of \"right organ in the right object at the right time,\" which historically has been interpreted as indicating that oral, manual and anal sex (both homosexual and heterosexual) are not appropriate in Buddhism or for Buddhists. However, he also says that in modern times all common, consensual sexual practices that do not cause harm to others are ethically acceptable and that society should accept and respect people who are gay or transgender from a secular point of view. In a 1994 interview with \"OUT Magazine\", the Dalai Lama clarified his personal opinion on the matter by saying, \"If someone comes to me and asks whether homosexuality is okay or not, I will ask 'What is your companion's opinion?' If you both agree, then I think I would say, 'If two males or two females voluntarily agree to have mutual satisfaction without further implication of harming others, then it is okay.'\" However, when interviewed by Canadian TV news anchor Evan Solomon on \"\" about whether homosexuality is acceptable in Buddhism, the Dalai Lama responded that \"it is sexual misconduct\". This was an echo of an earlier response in a 2004 \"The Vancouver Sun\" interview when asked about homosexuality in Buddhism, where the Dalai Lama replied \"for a Buddhist, the same sex, that is sexual misconduct\".\n\nIn his 1996 book \"Beyond Dogma\", he described a traditional Buddhist definition of an appropriate sexual act as follows: \"A sexual act is deemed proper when the couples use the organs intended for sexual intercourse and nothing else [ ... ] Homosexuality, whether it is between men or between women, is not improper in itself. What is improper is the use of organs already defined as inappropriate for sexual contact.\" He elaborated in 1997, explaining that the basis of that teaching was unknown to him. He also conveyed his own \"willingness to consider the possibility that some of the teachings may be specific to a particular cultural and historic context\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama has expressed concern at \"reports of violence and discrimination against gay, bisexual, and transgender people\" and \"urges respect, tolerance and the full recognition of human rights for all\".\n\nIn 2007, he said that the next Dalai Lama could possibly be a woman, remarking \"If a woman reveals herself as more useful the lama could very well be reincarnated in this form\".\n\nIn 2009, on gender equality and sexism, the Dalai Lama proclaimed at the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis, Tennessee: \"I call myself a feminist. Isn't that what you call someone who fights for women's rights?\" He also said that by nature, women are more compassionate \"based on their biology and ability to nurture and birth children\". He called on women to \"lead and create a more compassionate world\", citing the good works of nurses and mothers.\n\nIn 2014, the Dalai Lama attended the inauguration of the Secular Ethics for Higher Education Course at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) in Mumbai, where he was reported to have stated that, \"Since women have been shown to be more sensitive to others' suffering, their leadership may be more effective. His Holiness suggested it's time for men to withdraw and for women to step forward.\"\n\nIn 2015, he said in a BBC interview that if a female succeeded him, \"that female must be attractive, otherwise it is not much use,\" and when asked if he was joking, replied, \"No. True!\" He followed with a joke about his current success being due to his own appearance.\n\nIn April 2013, at the Culture of Compassion event in Ebrington Square in Derry, Northern Ireland, the Dalai Lama asserted, stressing the importance of peace of mind: \"Warm-heartedness is a key factor for healthy individuals, healthy families and healthy communities [ ... ] Scientists say that a healthy mind is a major factor for a healthy body. If you're serious about your health, think and take most concern for your peace of mind. That's very, very important.\"\n\nIn September 2018, speaking at a conference in Sweden's third-largest city, Malmo, home to a large immigrant population, the Dalai Lama said \"I think Europe belongs to the Europeans,\" he said, adding they should make clear to refugees that \"they ultimately should rebuild their own country\".\n\nIn 2016, Speaking to German reporters the Dalai Lama said \"too many\" refugees are seeking asylum in Europe,\" adding that \"Europe, for example Germany, cannot become an Arab country\". He also said that Germany is Germany. \"There are so many that in practice it becomes difficult.\"\n\nOn 29 May 2011, the Dalai Lama retired from the Central Tibetan Administration.\n\nOn 24 September 2011, the Dalai Lama issued the following statement concerning his reincarnation:\nWhen I am about ninety I will consult the high Lamas of the Tibetan Buddhist traditions, the Tibetan public, and other concerned people who follow Tibetan Buddhism, and re-evaluate whether the institution of the Dalai Lama should continue or not. On that basis we will take a decision. If it is decided that the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama should continue and there is a need for the Fifteenth Dalai Lama to be recognized, responsibility for doing so will primarily rest on the concerned officers of the Dalai Lama's Gaden Phodrang Trust. They should consult the various heads of the Tibetan Buddhist traditions and the reliable oath-bound Dharma Protectors who are linked inseparably to the lineage of the Dalai Lamas. They should seek advice and direction from these concerned beings and carry out the procedures of search and recognition in accordance with past tradition. I shall leave clear written instructions about this. Bear in mind that, apart from the reincarnation recognized through such legitimate methods, no recognition or acceptance should be given to a candidate chosen for political ends by anyone, including those in the People's Republic of China.\n\nOn 3 October 2011, the Dalai Lama repeated his statement in an interview with Canadian CTV News. He added that Chinese laws banning the selection of successors based on reincarnation will not impact his decisions. \"Naturally my next life is entirely up to me. No one else. And also this is not a political matter,\" he said in the interview. The Dalai Lama also added that he was not decided on whether he would reincarnate or be the last Dalai Lama.\n\nIn an interview with the German newspaper \"Welt am Sonntag\" published on 7 September 2014 the Dalai Lama stated \"the institution of the Dalai Lama has served its purpose\", and that \"We had a Dalai Lama for almost five centuries. The 14th Dalai Lama now is very popular. Let us then finish with a popular Dalai Lama.\"\n\nGyatso has also expressed fear that the Chinese government would manipulate any reincarnation selection in order to choose a successor that would go along with their political goals. In response the Chinese government implied that it would select another Dalai Lama regardless of his decision.\n\nIn October 1998, the Dalai Lama's administration acknowledged that it received $1.7 million a year in the 1960s from the U.S. government through the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). When asked by CIA officer John Kenneth Knaus in 1995 to comment on the CIA Tibetan program, the Dalai Lama replied that though it helped the morale of those resisting the Chinese, \"thousands of lives were lost in the resistance\" and further, that \"the U.S. Government had involved itself in his country's affairs not to help Tibet but only as a Cold War tactic to challenge the Chinese.\"\n\nIn his autobiography \"Freedom in Exile\", the Dalai Lama criticized the CIA again for supporting the Tibetan independence movement \"not because they (the CIA) cared about Tibetan independence, but as part of their worldwide efforts to destabilize all communist governments\".\n\nIn 1999, the Dalai Lama said that the CIA Tibetan program had been harmful for Tibet because it was primarily aimed at serving American interests, and \"once the American policy toward China changed, they stopped their help.\"\n\nThe Chinese press has criticized the Dalai Lama for his close ties with India. His 2010 remarks at the International Buddhist Conference in Gujarat saying that he was \"Tibetan in appearance, but an Indian in spirituality\" and referral to himself as a \"son of India\" in particular led the \"People's Daily\" to opine, \"Since the Dalai Lama deems himself an Indian rather than Chinese, then why is he entitled to represent the voice of the Tibetan people?\" Dhundup Gyalpo of the \"Tibet Sun\" shot back that Tibetan religion could be traced back to Nalanda in India, and that Tibetans have no connection to Chinese \"apart ... from a handful of culinary dishes\". The \"People's Daily\" stressed the links between Chinese Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism and accused the Dalai Lama of \"betraying southern Tibet to India\". In 2008, the Dalai Lama said for the first time that the territory India claims as part of Arunachal Pradesh is part of India, citing the disputed 1914 Simla Accord.\n\nThe Dorje Shugden Controversy reappeared in the Gelug school by the publication of the \"Yellow Book\" in 1976, containing stories about wrathful acts of \"Dorje Shugden\" against Gelugpas who also practiced Nyingma teachings. In response, the 14th Dalai Lama, a Gelugpa himself and advocate of an \"inclusive\" approach to the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism, started to speak out against the practice of Dorje Shugden in 1978.\n\nThe controversy has attracted attention in the West because of demonstrations held in 2008 and 2014 by Dorje Shugden practitioners. A 2015 Reuters investigation determined \"that the religious sect behind the protests has the backing of the Communist Party\" and that the \"group has emerged as an instrument in Beijing's long campaign to undermine support for the Dalai Lama\". After the Reuters investigation revealed that China backs it, the Shugden group halted operations and disbanded.\n\nIn April 2018, the Dalai Lama confirmed the official Chinese claims about Gedhun Choekyi Nyima by saying that he knew from \"reliable sources\" that the Panchen Lama he had recognized was alive and receiving normal education. He said he hoped that the official Panchen Lama (Gyaincain Norbu) studied well under the guidance of a good teacher, adding that there were instances in Tibetan Buddhist tradition, of a reincarnated lama taking more than one manifestation.\n\nIn a May 2013 Harris Poll of 7,245 adults across the five largest European countries and the United States, the Dalai Lama was tied with President Barack Obama with the highest levels of popularity, 78%, of all world leaders. Pope Francis was the only leader that came close to the two of them, and in the United States alone the Dalai Lama topped the poll over Obama by 13 percentage points.\n\nThe Dalai Lama's appeal is variously ascribed to his charismatic personality, international fascination with Buddhism, his universalist values, international sympathy for the Tibetans, and western sinophobia. In the 1990s, many films were released by the American film industry about Tibet, including biopics of the Dalai Lama. This is attributed to both the Dalai Lama's 1989 Nobel Peace Prize as well as to the euphoria following the Fall of Communism. The most notable films, \"Kundun\" and \"Seven Years in Tibet\" (both released in 1997), portrayed \"an idyllic pre-1950 Tibet, with a smiling, soft-spoken Dalai Lama at the helm – a Dalai Lama sworn to non-violence\": portrayals the Chinese government decried as ahistorical.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has his own pages on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and Google Plus.\nThe Dalai Lama has tried to mobilize international support for Tibetan activities. The Dalai Lama has been successful in gaining Western support for himself and the cause of greater Tibetan autonomy or independence, including vocal support from numerous Hollywood celebrities, most notably the actors Richard Gere and Steven Seagal, as well as lawmakers from several major countries. Photos of the Dalai Lama were banned after March 1959 Lhasa protests until after the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1976. In 1996 the Chinese Communist Party once again reinstated the total prohibition of any photo of the 14th Dalai Lama. According to the Tibet Information Network, \"authorities in Tibet have begun banning photographs of the exiled Dalai Lama in monasteries and public places, according to reports from a monitoring group and a Tibetan newspaper. Plainclothes police went to hotels and restaurants in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, on April 22 and 23 and ordered Tibetans to remove pictures of the Dalai Lama ... \" The ban continues in many locations throughout Tibet today.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama has appeared in several non-fiction films including:\n\n\nHe has been depicted as a character in various other movies and television programs including:\n\n\nTwo characters in the animation series' \"\" and \"The Legend of Korra\" were named after him. Avatar Aang's mentor (\"The Last Airbender\") and Aang's youngest son Tenzin (\"The Legend of Korra\").\n\nThe Dalai Lama was featured on the March 5, 2017, episode of the HBO late-night talk show \"Last Week Tonight\", in which host John Oliver conducted a comedic interview with the Dalai Lama, focusing on the topics of Tibetan sovereignty, Tibetan self-immolations, and his succession plans.\n\nThe Dalai Lama has received numerous awards over his spiritual and political career. In 1959, he received the Ramon Magsaysay Award for Community Leadership.\n\nOn 16 June 1988 the Dalai Lama was awarded the Dr. Leopold Lucas Prize on behalf of the Protestant faculty of the University of Tübingen by Professor Hans-Jürgen Hermisson who stated that the prize was awarded because of the Dalai Lama's important contribution to the promotion of dialogue between different religions and peoples as well as to his commitment to Tolerance and non-violence. The Dalai Lama donated the 50,000 DM prizefund to a German Charity active in Tibet.\n\nAfter the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the Norwegian Nobel Committee awarded the Dalai Lama the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize. The Committee officially gave the prize to the Dalai Lama for \"the struggle of the liberation of Tibet and the efforts for a peaceful resolution\" and \"in part a tribute to the memory of Mahatma Gandhi\" although the President of the Committee also said that the prize was intended to put pressure on China, which was reportedly infuriated that the award was given to a separatist.\n\nIn 1994, he received the Freedom Medal from the Roosevelt Institute.\n\nOn 28 May 2005, the Dalai Lama received the Christmas Humphreys Award from the Buddhist Society in the United Kingdom. On 22 June 2006, he became one of only six people ever to be recognised with Honorary Citizenship by the Governor General of Canada. In February 2007, the Dalai Lama was named \"Presidential Distinguished Professor\" at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia; it was the first time that he accepted a university appointment.\n\nThe Dalai Lama was a 2007 recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian award bestowed by American lawmakers. In 2012, the Dalai Lama was awarded the Templeton Prize. He later donated the entire prize money to an Indian charity, \"Save the Children\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31959901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31959901", "title": "Achmad Soebardjo", "text": "Achmad Soebardjo\n\nRaden Ahmad Soebardjo Djojoadisoerjo (Karawang Regency, West Java, 23 March 1896 – 15 December 1978) was a diplomat, one of Indonesia's founding fathers, and an Indonesian national hero. He was the first Foreign Minister of Indonesia. In 1933, he received the degree \"Meester in de Rechten\" from Leiden University, Netherlands.\n\nAhmad Soebardjo was born in Teluk Jambe, Karawang Regency, West Java, on 23 March 1896. His father's name was Teuku Muhammad Yusuf, an Acehnese patrician from Pidie. His paternal grandfather was an ulama and his father was the chief of police in Teluk Jambe, Karawang. His mother's name was Wardinah. She was of Javanese-Buginese descent, and was daughter from \"Camat\" in Telukagung, Cirebon.\n\nInitially, his father gave him the name Teuku Abdul Manaf, but his mother gave him the name Ahmad Subardjo. Djojoadisoerjo was added by himself after he was arrested and imprisoned in Ponorogo Prison because of his involvement with the \"July 3, 1946 Incident\".\n\nHe studied at Hogere Burger School, Jakarta in 1917. He continued to Leiden University, Netherlands and obtained the degree \"Meester in de Rechten\" title in the field of law in 1933.\n\nAs a student, he was active in the fight for Indonesian independence through several organizations such as Jong Java and the Indonesian Students Association in the Netherlands, the Perhimpoenan Indonesia. In February 1927, Soebardjo, Mohammad Hatta, and three other students represented Indonesia at the conferences of the League against Imperialism in Brussels and later in Germany. At the founding congress in Brussels, Soebardjo and the others met Jawaharlal Nehru and others nationalist leaders from Asia and Africa. Soebardjo even spent a couple of months in Berlin and Moscow working for the International Secretariat of the League against Imperialism. Upon return to Indonesia, he became a member of the Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence (BPUPK).\n\nOn 19 August 1945, two days after the Proclamation of Indonesian Independence on 17 August 1945, Sukarno appointed Soebardjo as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Presidential Cabinet, Indonesia's first cabinet for 4 months and immediately started the first Foreign Ministry office at his own residence in Jalan Cikini raya. Subardjo served as Minister of Foreign Affairs once again from 1951 to 1952 in Sukiman's Cabinet. In addition, he also became the Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia to Switzerland from 1957 to 1961.\nSoebardjo died at the age of 82 at Pertamina Hospital, Kebayoran Baru, from influenza complications. He was buried at his vacation home in Cipayung, Bogor. In 2009 the government honoured him as a National Hero.\n"}
{"id": "52636930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52636930", "title": "Ahebi Ugbabe", "text": "Ahebi Ugbabe\n\nKing Ahebi Ugbabe (died 1948) was king (\"eze\") and warrant chief of Enugu-Ezike, Nigeria. She was the only female king in colonial Nigeria. Her life's impact is described by Nwando Achebe: \"She was a 'slave' married to a deity, a runaway, a sex worker, a headman, a warrant chief, and ultimately a female king. She was a strong leader of her people, yet also a collaborator empowered by and serving the British colonial regime in Nigeria.\" \n\nAhebi Ugbabe was born in the later part of the 19th cetnury to Ugbabe Ayibi, a farmer and palm wine tapper, and Anekwu Ameh, a farmer and trader, in Umuida, Enugu-Ezike. She had two brothers and no sisters. She lived with her mother's family in Unadu for a brief period before returning to Umuida. After her return, she did not stay long before running away.\n\nShe later had to escape to Igalaland. Ahebi was running from an order for her to be married to a female deity as punishment for her father's crime. This punishment was known as \"igo mma ogo\" (to become the inlaw of a deity). Her family had gone through a series of unfortunate events when she thirteen and fourteen. The farm yielded little, illness spread, and trading was slow. Her father had gone to a diviner, someone who was perceived as knowing the unknown. This man had correlated the events to the wrath of the goddess Ohe due to his crime. During her forced exile, Ahebi became a prostitute and used this form of work to her advantage. Along her travels, Ahebi learned to speak numerous languages, such as \"Igala, Nupe, and Pidgin English. Her success and independence helped to redefine sex work in Igbo culture, from servitude to a voluntary profession. Chinua Achebe wrote that \"Achebe furthermore sets out to introduce 'the concept of 'wife of a deity' and extends the analytical category of 'autonomous sex worker' as models through which to engage with continuities and change in conceptions of female enslavement as well as competing and overlapping definitions of prostitution in an African context\" Her sex work and linguistic skills gave her access to the Attah-Igala (king) and the British divisional officer, who not only facilitated her return to Enugu-Ezike, but supported her claim to the office of headman, warrant chief, and, later, eze.\"\n\nAhebi's reign began a few months after she returned to Igboland from exile. Ahebi was the only person in her village able to speak with the British. She replaced \"the aged (and increasingly incompetent)\" headman Ugwu Okegwu who was unable to communicate with the British. She was made the only woman warrant chief in all of colonial Nigeria in the British Native court. British District Officer W. H. Lloyd said Ahebi was \"a lady of influence and power. She is intelligent and of a quiet disposition. When she does speak, it is usually to the point and sensible.\"\n\nAlthough Ahebi commanded the respect of her people, she sewed seeds of resentment by conscripting forced labor and imposing a census and a British tax. The Igbo people \"did not believe that human beings should ever be counted. This census caused the Woman's War in southern Igboland.\n\nAt first, \"Ahebi easily quelled whatever resistance to her kingship existed\" because of her British backing. Ahebi amassed wealth and power, but ultimately fell from grace when the extent of her multiple—gender and power—transgressions became too much for her community. She overreached in her ambition and violated a social more by attending a spiritual masquerade ritual with her own mask. This ritual was only for people assigned male at birth. The male elders and Ahebi went to court to settle the case and the British sided with the male elders, undermining Ahebi's rule.\n\nAhebi Ugbabe cultivated an aura of mysticism to solidify an image of all powerful rule. She used pre-colonial traditions to push this mysticism and therefore power. She also used this to augment her gender to effectively make herself king. Another way that Ahebi asserted herself as a man was she collected multiple wives, many of whom were runaways from abusive husbands. She also had multiple servants who would help her. These wives would bear children to continue Ahebi's name.\n\nBefore Ahebi died, she performed her own burial rites. She \"did not trust that her society would accord her a befitting burial.\" She intended to perform the rites \"in such a magnificent manner that her society would never forget that an incredible being such as herself had lived.\" Her living funeral included gunfire, animal sacrifice, and glorious music of remembrance.\n\nAhebi died in 1948. Although she was a woman, she was buried according to the local customs for burying men.\n"}
{"id": "420766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420766", "title": "Ahmadou Ahidjo", "text": "Ahmadou Ahidjo\n\nAhmadou Babatoura Ahidjo (24 August 1924 – 30 November 1989) was a Cameroonian politician who was the first President of Cameroon, holding the office from 1960 until 1982.\n\nAhidjo was born in Garoua, a major river port along the Benue River in northern Cameroun, which was at the time a French mandate territory. His mother was a Fulani of slave descent, while his father was a Fulani village chief.\n\nAhidjo's mother raised him as a Muslim and sent him to Quranic school as a child. In 1932, he began attending local government primary school. After failing his first school certification examination in 1938, Ahidjo worked for a few months in the veterinary service. He returned to school and obtained his school certification a year later. Ahidjo spent the next three years attending secondary school at the Ecole Primaire Supérieur in Yaoundé, the capital of the mandate, studying for a career in the civil service. At school, Ahidjo also played soccer and competed as a cyclist.\n\nIn 1942, Ahidjo joined the civil service as a radio operator for a postal service. As part of his job, he worked on assignments in several major cities throughout the country, such as Douala, Ngaoundéré, Bertoua, and Mokolo. According to his official biographer, Ahidjo was the first civil servant from northern Cameroun to work in the southern areas of the territory. His experiences throughout the country were, according to Harvey Glickman, professor emeritus of political science at Haverford College and scholar of African politics, responsible for fostering his sense of national identity and provided him the sagacity to handle the problems of governing a multiethnic state.\n\nIn 1946, Ahidjo entered territorial politics. From January 28, 1957, to May 10, 1957, Ahidjo served as President of the Legislative Assembly of Cameroon. In the same year he became Deputy Prime Minister in \"de facto\" head of state André-Marie Mbida's government. While serving as Prime Minister, Ahidjo had administrative goals to move toward independence for Cameroon while reuniting the separated factions of the country and cooperating with French colonial powers. On June 12, with a motion from the National Assembly, Ahidjo became involved in negotiations with France in Paris. These negotiations continued through October, resulting in formal recognition of Cameroonian plans for independence. The date for the simultaneous termination of French trusteeship and Cameroonian independence was set by Cameroon's National Assembly for January 1, 1960.\n\nAhidjo's support and collaboration in allowing for continued French influence economically and politically was faced with opposition from radicals who rejected French influence. These radicals were sympathetic to a more revolutionary, procommunist approach to decolonization. They formed their own political party, Union des Populations du Cameroun. In March 1959, Ahidjo addressed the United Nations General Assembly in order to gather support for France's independence plan. Influenced by Cold War tensions, the United Nations expressed concern about the UPC due to the party's pro-communist disposition. The United Nations moved to end French trusteeship in Cameroon without organizing new elections or lifting the ban that France had imposed on the UPC. Ahidjo experienced a rebellion in the 1960s from the UPC, but defeated it by 1970 with the aid of French military force. Ahidjo proposed and was granted four bills to gather power and declare a state of emergency in order to end the rebellion.\n\nFollowing the independence of the French-controlled area of Cameroon, Ahidjo's focus turned on reuniting the British-controlled area of Cameroon with its newly independent counterpart. In addressing the United Nations, Ahidjo and his supporters favored integration and reunification whereas more radical players such as the UPC preferred immediate reunification. However, both sides were seeking a plebiscite for reunification of the separated Cameroons. The UN decided on the integration and reunification plebiscite. The plebiscite resulted in northern area of the British Cameroons voting to join Nigeria and the southern area voting to reunite with the rest of Cameroon. Ahidjo worked with Premier John Foncha of the Anglophone Cameroon throughout the process of integrating the two parts of Cameroon. In July 1961, Ahidjo attended a conference at which the plans and conditions for merging the Cameroons were made and later adopted by both the National Assemblies of the Francophone and Anglophone Cameroons. Ahidjo and Foncha met in Bamenda in order to create a constitution for the united territories. In their meetings, Ahidjo and Foncha agreed not to join the French community or the Commonwealth. In the summer of 1961, Ahidjo and Foncha resolved any issues between them and agreed upon the final draft for the constitution, which was drawn in Foumban, a city in West Cameroon. On October 1, 1961, the two separate Cameroons were merged, establishing the Federal Republic of Cameroon with Ahidjo as the president and Foncha as the Vice President. \n\nOn March 12, 1962, Ahidjo issued a decree that prevented criticism against his regime, giving the government the authority to imprison anyone found guilty of subversion against government authorities or laws. In July 1962, a group of opposition party leaders who had served in the government with Ahidjo, André-Marie Mbida, Charles Okala, Marcel Bey Bey Eyidi, and Theodore Mayi Martip, challenged Ahidjo's call for a single-party state, saying that it was dictatorial. These leaders were arrested, tried, and imprisoned on the grounds of subversion against the government. The arrest of these leaders resulted in many other opposition leaders joining Ahidjo's Party, the Union Camerounaise. On September 1, 1966, Ahidjo achieved his goal of creating a single-party state. The Cameroon National Union was established, with Ahidjo maintaining that it was essential to the unity of Cameroon. \n\nPlacing the blame for Cameroon's underdevelopment and poorly implemented town and public planning policies on Cameroon's federal structure, as well as charging federalism with maintaining cleavages and issues between the Anglophone and Francophone parts of Cameroon, Ahidjo announced on May 6, 1972, that he wanted to abolish the federation and put a unitary state into place if the electorate supported the idea in a referendum set for May 20, 1972. Ahidjo issued Presidential Decree No. 72-720 on June 2, 1972, which established the United Republic of Cameroon and abolished the federation. A new constitution was adopted by Ahidjo's government in the same year, abolishing the position of Vice President, which served to further centralize power in Cameroon. Ahidjo's power presided over not only the state and government, but also as commander of the military. In 1975, however, Ahidjo instituted the position of Prime Minister, which was filled by Paul Biya. In 1979, Ahidjo initiated a change in the constitution designating the Prime Minister as successor. \n\nIn 1972, when Cameroon hosted the Africa Cup of Nations, Ahidjo ordered the construction of two new stadiums, the Ahmadou Ahidjo stadium and the Unification Stadium. The Unification Stadium was named in celebration of the country being renamed as the United Republic of Cameroon. \n\nThough many of his actions were dictatorial, Cameroon became one of the most stable in Africa. He was considered to be more conservative and less charismatic than most post-colonial African leaders, but his policies allowed Cameroon to attain comparative prosperity. Courtiers surrounding Ahidjo promoted the myth that he was \"father of the nation.\"\n\nAhidjo resigned, ostensibly for health reasons, on 4 November 1982 (there are many theories surrounding the resignation; it is generally believed that his French doctor \"tricked\" Ahidjo about his health) and was succeeded by Prime Minister Paul Biya two days later. That he stepped down in favor of Biya, a Christian from the south and not a Muslim from the north like himself, was considered surprising. Ahidjo's ultimate intentions are unclear; it is possible that he intended to return to the presidency at a later point when his health improved, and another possibility is that he intended for Maigari Bello Bouba, a fellow Muslim from the north who succeeded Biya as Prime Minister, to be his eventual successor as President, with Biya in effectively a caretaker role. Although the Central Committee of the ruling Cameroon National Union (CNU) urged Ahidjo to remain President, he declined to do so, but he did agree to remain as the President of the CNU. However, he also arranged for Biya to become the CNU Vice-President and handle party affairs in his absence. During the first few months of Biya's administration, there was cooperation between Biya and Ahidjo. In January 1982, Ahidjo dismissed four CNU members who opposed Biya's presidency. Additionally that month, Ahidjo and Biya both went on separate speaking tours to different parts of Cameroon in order to address the public's concerns.\n\nLater that year, however, a major feud developed between Ahidjo and Biya. On July 19, 1983, Ahidjo went into exile in France, and Biya began removing Ahidjo's supporters from positions of power and eliminating symbols of his authority, removing official photographs of Ahidjo from the public as well as removing Ahidjo's name from the anthem of the CNU. On August 22, Biya announced that a plot allegedly involving Ahidjo had been uncovered. For his part, Ahidjo severely criticized Biya, alleging that Biya was abusing his power, that he lived in fear of plots against him, and that he was a threat to national unity. The two were unable to reconcile despite the efforts of several foreign leaders, and Ahidjo announced on August 27 that he was resigning as head of the CNU. In exile, Ahidjo was sentenced to death \"in absentia\" in February 1984, along with two others, for participation in the June 1983 coup plot, although Biya commuted the sentence to life in prison. Ahidjo denied involvement in the plot. A violent but unsuccessful coup attempt in April 1984 was also widely believed to have been orchestrated by Ahidjo.\n\nIn his remaining years, Ahidjo divided his time between France and Senegal. He died of a heart attack in Dakar on 30 November 1989 and was buried there. He was officially rehabilitated by a law in December 1991. Biya said on 30 October 2007 that the matter of returning Ahidjo's remains to Cameroon was \"a family affair\". An agreement on returning Ahidjo's remains was reached in June 2009, and it was expected that they would be returned in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "7341652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7341652", "title": "Anna Kéthly", "text": "Anna Kéthly\n\nAnna Kéthly (16 November 1889 – 7 September 1976) was a Hungarian social democratic politician. Her fellow party member Vilmos Böhm called her the \"Joan of Arc of Hungarian politics\".\n\nShe was one of nine children born into a poor family in Budapest, Hungary. At the age of fifteen she started working in a garment factory but soon found more appealing work in the editorial office of a women's magazine and this gave her the chance to further her education. In 1917, she joined the Hungarian Social Democratic Party and became an active Party member. In 1919, Kéthly was elected onto a committee of the Party. In subsequent years she was a frequent contributor to the Party's newspaper \"Népszava\". In 1922 Kéthly was elected to Parliament as a member of the Social Democratic Party, and represented her Party in parliament without a break until the German invasion of Hungary in March 1944. After the German invasion, Kéthly left Budapest and lived in the country with false papers under an assumed identity. \n\nAfter the Second World War, Kéthly again became politically active and helped to reorganize the Hungarian Social Democratic Party and she was elected to the Party's Political Committee. In April 1945, she was elected a member of the Provisional National Assembly and in the general elections in November of same year, she was re-elected to parliament, this time as head of the Social Democratic faction, and was made Deputy Speaker of Parliament. Kéthly made frequent contributions of articles to Socialist papers and was active in maintaining contact with international socialist Parties in the West. In post-war Hungary, she was a leading opponent of her Party's merger with the Hungarian Communist Party and in the internal power-struggle that ensued, in March 1948, she was dismissed from the Party and soon after she also lost her seat in Parliament and placed under house arrest for two years.\nIn June 1950, Kéthly, together with several other members of the Social Democratic Party, was arrested by the Communists, who had in the meantime gained control of Hungary. In January 1954, after more than three years in prison, she was charged with spying and activities directed against the state and sentenced to life imprisonment. Following international pressure from Western socialist parties she was granted a pardon and released, but kept under permanent 'observation'.\n\nOn 31 October 1956, following the revival of the Hungarian Social Democratic Party during the Revolution, she became president of the Party. On 1 November she attended the Socialist International Meeting in Vienna, Austria. The following day, 2 November The Hungarian Government appointed her a delegate to the United Nations General Assembly. On 3 November her Party nominated Kéthly for a ministerial position in the new coalition government of Imre Nagy but at dawn the following day, 4 November 1956, the Soviet Union invaded Hungary and she was advised to fly to New York City and appeal to the U.N. General Assembly on behalf of Hungary. Eventually she settled in London, United Kingdom, where she carried on writing and editing Socialist publications. In 1962 the Hungarian Supreme Court reviewed Kéthly's 1954 pardon and, \"in absentia\", imposed on her a three-year prison sentence for anti-state activities. \n\nAnna Kéthly died on 7 September 1976, in Blankenberge, Belgium.\n\nIn October, 1990, her ashes were returned to Hungary and laid to rest. A full rehabilitation of Anna Kéthly took place on 7 July 1994, when the Hungarian Supreme Court annulled the 1962 verdict against her.\n\nA movie about her life, \"Utolsó jelentés Annáról\" (\"Last Report About Anna\") premiered in late 2009. It was directed by Márta Mészáros. Enikő Eszenyi plays Kéthly.\n\n"}
{"id": "1294784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1294784", "title": "Augustin Bizimungu", "text": "Augustin Bizimungu\n\nAugustin Bizimungu (born 28 August 1952) is a former general in the Rwandan Armed Forces (FAR). In 1994, he briefly served as chief of staff of the army. During this time, he trained the soldiers and militiamen who carried out the Rwandan Genocide.\n\nBizimungu was born in Byumba préfecture, Mukaranje Commune, Mugina Secteur, Nyange Cellule, Rwanda.\n\nAn ethnic Hutu, Bizimungu held the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel in the FAR on 6 April 1994. Some days later, in the wake of Déogratias Nsabimana's death alongside Juvénal Habyarimana, Bizimungu was promoted to Major-General and appointed as chief of staff of the armed forces, replacing Marcel Gatsinzi.\n\nUpon fleeing the country following the RPF (Rwandan Patriotic Front) victory, he reportedly declared that \"The RPF will rule over a desert.\"\n\nOn 12 April 2002, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) issued an arrest warrant for Bizimungu, who was apparently working with the Angolan rebel movement UNITA. In August 2002, he was arrested by the Angolan government and taken to the U.N. War Crimes Tribunal in Tanzania.\nThe trial adjourned until September 2008, whereupon Bizimungu was tried along with fellow FAR officers Augustin Ndindiliyimana (Chief of Staff of the National Gendarmerie), François-Xavier Nzuwonemeye (Commander of the Reconnaissance Battalion of the Rwandan Army) and Innocent Sagahutu (Second-in-Command of the Reconnaissance Battalion of the Rwandan Army). Bizimungu was sentenced to thirty years in prison for his part in the genocide on 17 May 2011. \n\nBizimungu is portrayed by Fana Mokoena in the 2004 movie \"Hotel Rwanda\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8310502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8310502", "title": "Benegal Rama Rau", "text": "Benegal Rama Rau\n\nSir Benegal Rama Rau, CIE, ICS (1 July 1889 – 13 December 1969) was the fourth Governor of the Reserve Bank of India from 1 July 1949 to 14 January 1957.\n\nHe was educated at Presidency College, Madras, and at King's College, Cambridge. Joining the Indian Civil Service in 1919, he was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire (CIE) in 1930, and was knighted in 1939. He was a member of the Indian Civil Service. While he had the longest tenure as Governor of the RBI, it was cut short when he resigned just before the expiry of his second extended term, due to differences with Finance Minister TT Krishnamachari. \nFrom a Konkani-speaking Chitrapur Saraswat Brahmin family from Mangaluru, his elder brother Sir Benegal Narsing Rau was an Indian civil servant, jurist, diplomat and statesman known for his key role in drafting the Constitution of India, and his younger brother B Shiva Rao became a journalist and politician. Married to Dhanvanthi Rama Rau, of Kashmiri Brahmin descent and a leader in the Indian women's rights movement who was the International President of Planned Parenthood, their younger daughter Santha Rama Rau became a travel writer, marrying and settling in the United States.\nOn joining the ICS and before joining the RBI he held the following posts.\n\nWhen he returned to India he was appointed Chairman of the Bombay Port Trust (1941–1946). After serving in the post he once again served as a diplomat as the Indian Ambassador to Japan (1947–1948), and as the Ambassador to the United States (1948–1949). His last position was as the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India .\n"}
{"id": "8736993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8736993", "title": "Bobby Lounge", "text": "Bobby Lounge\n\nBobby Lounge (born Dub Brock, 1950) is an American singer-songwriter from McComb, Mississippi, United States. Lounge began playing for house parties while attending Louisiana Tech University in northern Louisiana in the mid 1970s. In the 1980s, Lounge played a handful of shows at Ruby's Roadhouse in Mandeville, Louisiana. He stopped playing professionally for many years while he battled Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. He launched a comeback from a short lived career when he appeared on stage at the 2005 New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival, Tipitina's, and the New Orleans House of Blues. That performance was enthusiastically received and subsequently glowing reviews appeared in \"Rolling Stone\", \"The New York Times\", \"Living Blues\", \"Blues Review\", \"Down Beat\", \"USA Today\" and other magazines and newspapers.\n\nHe has released four albums for the small Abitian record label, \"I Remember The Night Your Trailer Burned Down\", \"Ten Foot Woman\", \"Bobby's Back in Town Live\", and \"Somethin's Wrong\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "352224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352224", "title": "Bourbon family tree", "text": "Bourbon family tree\n\nThis is a simplified family tree of the House of Bourbon. The House of Bourbon is a cadet branch of the Capetian dynasty that descended from a younger son of King Louis IX of France. Louis IX's grandson was the first duke of Bourbon, whose descendants would later become Kings of France in accordance to the Salic law. In the present day, family representatives are the King of Spain and the Grand Duke of Luxembourg. Several others are pretenders to the thrones of France, Two Sicilies, and Brazil.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "647820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647820", "title": "Carlos P. Romulo", "text": "Carlos P. Romulo\n\nCarlos Peña Romulo, (14 January 1898 – 15 December 1985) was a Filipino diplomat, statesman, soldier, journalist and author. He was a reporter at 16, a newspaper editor by the age of 20, and a publisher at 32. He was a co-founder of the Boy Scouts of the Philippines, a general in the US Army and the Philippine Army, university president, President of the UN General Assembly, was eventually named one of the Philippines' National Artists in Literature, and was the recipient of many other honors and honorary degrees. His hometown is Camiling, Tarlac and he studied at the Camiling Central Elementary School during his basic education.\n\nRomulo served eight Philippine presidents, from Manuel L. Quezon to Ferdinand Marcos, as the Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines and as the country's representative to the United States and to the United Nations. He also served as the Resident Commissioner to the U.S. House of Representatives during the Commonwealth era. In addition, he served also as the Secretary of Education in President Diosdado P. Macapagal's and President Ferdinand E. Marcos's Cabinet through 1962 to 1968.\n\nRomulo served as Resident Commissioner of the Philippines to the United States Congress from 1944 to 1946. This was the title of the non-voting Delegate to the US House of Representatives for lands taken in the Spanish–American War, and as such, he is the only member of the US Congress to end his tenure via a legal secession from the Union.\n\nIn his career in the United Nations, Romulo was a strong advocate of human rights, freedom and decolonization. In 1948 in Paris, France, at the third UN General Assembly, he strongly disagreed with a proposal made by the Soviet delegation headed by Andrei Vishinsky, who challenged his credentials by insulting him with this quote: \"You are just a little man from a little country.\" In return, Romulo replied, \"It is the duty of the little Davids of this world to fling the pebbles of truth in the eyes of the blustering Goliaths and force them to behave!\", leaving Vishinsky with nothing left to do but sit down.\n\nHe served as the President of the Fourth Session of United Nations General Assembly from 1949 to 1950—the first Asian to hold the position—and served as president of the United Nations Security Council four times, twice in 1957, 1980 and 1981. He had served with General Douglas MacArthur in the Pacific, and became the first non-American to win the Pulitzer Prize in Correspondence in 1942. The Pulitzer Prize website says Carlos P. Romulo of Philippine Herald was awarded \"For his observations and forecasts of Far Eastern developments during a tour of the trouble centers from Hong Kong to Batavia.\"\n\nRomulo ran for the office of United Nations Secretary-General in the 1953 selection. He fell two votes short of the required 7-vote majority in the Security Council, finishing second to Lester B. Pearson of Canada. His ambitions were further dashed by negative votes from France and the Soviet Union, both of whom were permanent members with veto power. The Security Council eventually settled on a dark horse candidate and selected Dag Hammarskjöld as Secretary-General of the United Nations.\n\nFrom Jan 1952 to May 1953, Romulo became only the second former member of Congress to become the Ambassador to the United States from a foreign country, following Joaquin M. Elizalde, who had been his immediate predecessor in both posts. He later served as Ambassador again from Sept 1955 to Feb 1962.\n\nInstead, he returned to the Philippines and was a candidate for the nomination as the presidential candidate for the Liberal Party, but lost at the party convention to the incumbent Elpidio Quirino, who ran unsuccessfully for re-election against Ramon Magsaysay. Quirino had agreed to a secret ballot at the convention, but after the convention opened, the president demanded an open roll-call voting, leaving the delegates no choice but supporting Quirino, the candidate of the party machine. Feeling betrayed, Romulo left the Liberal Party and became national campaign manager of Magsaysay, the candidate of the opposing Nacionalista Party who won the election.\n\nHe was the signatory for the Philippines to the United Nations Charter when it was founded in 1945. He was the Philippines' Secretary (Minister from 1973 to 1984) of Foreign Affairs under President Elpidio Quirino from 1950 to 1952, under President Diosdado Macapagal from 1963 to 1964 and under President Ferdinand Marcos from 1968 to 1984. In April 1955 he led the Philippines' delegation to the Asian-African Conference at Bandung.\n\nRomulo supported President Ferdinand Marcos through most of his presidency. But he resigned soon after the assassination of Benigno Aquino, citing poor health. Gregorio Brillantes interviewed him in 1984, and he said he resigned \"heartsick\" because of the assassination of Aquino, whom he considered a \"friend\", and the resulting freefall of the Philippines' economy and international reputation.\n\nRomulo, in all, wrote and published 22 books, which includes \"The United\" (novel), \"I Walked with Heroes\" (autobiography), \"I Saw the Fall of the Philippines\", \"Mother America\" and \"I See the Philippines Rise\" (war-time memoirs).\n\nHe died, at 87, in Manila on 15 December 1985 and was buried in the Heroes' Cemetery (Libingan ng mga Bayani). He was honored as \"one of the truly great statesmen of the 20th century.\" In 1980, he was extolled by United Nations Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim as \"Mr. United Nations\" for his valuable services to the United Nations and his dedication to freedom and world peace.\n\nNational Honors\n\nRomulo is perhaps among the most decorated Filipino in history, which includes 72 honorary degrees from different international institutions and universities and 144 awards and decorations from foreign countries:\n\n\nAt the third UN General Assembly, held in Paris in 1948, the USSR's deputy foreign minister, Andrei Vishinsky, sneered at Romulo and challenged his credentials: \"You are just a little man from a little country.\" \"It is the duty of the little Davids of this world,\" cried Romulo, \"to fling the pebbles of truth in the eyes of the blustering Goliaths and force them to behave!\"\n\nDuring his meeting with Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia, Marshal Tito welcomed Gen. Romulo with drinks and cigars, to which the general kindly refused. Their conversation went as follows:\n\nAt this, Marshal Tito was tickled by his reply and loudly exclaimed around the room, \"I etcetera, etcetera, etcetera!\"\n\nRomulo was a dapper little man (barely five feet four inches in shoes). When they waded in at Leyte beach in October 1944, and the word went out that General MacArthur was waist deep, one of Romulo's journalist friends cabled, \"If MacArthur was in water waist deep, Romulo must have drowned!\"\n\nIn later years, Romulo told another story himself about a meeting with MacArthur and other tall American generals who disparaged his physical stature. \"Gentlemen,\" he declared, \"When you say something like that, you make me feel like a dime among nickels.\"\n\n\n\nResident Commissioner of the Philippines to the United States Congress\n\n"}
{"id": "6124669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124669", "title": "Dan Barker", "text": "Dan Barker\n\nDaniel Edwin Barker (born June 25, 1949) is an American atheist activist who served as an evangelical Christian preacher and musician for 19 years but left Christianity in 1984. He and his wife Annie Laurie Gaylor are the current co-presidents of the Freedom From Religion Foundation. He has written numerous articles for \"Freethought Today\", an American freethought newspaper. He is the author of several books including \"Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist\".\n\nBarker has been an invited speaker at Rock Beyond Belief. He is on the speakers bureau of the Secular Student Alliance.\n\nBarker received a degree in religion from Azusa Pacific University and was ordained to the ministry by the Standard Community Church, California, in 1975. He served as associate pastor at a Religious Society of Friends (Quaker) church, a church in the Assemblies of God fellowship, and an independent Charismatic church. To this day, he receives royalties from his popular children's Christian musicals, \"Mary Had a Little Lamb\" (1977) and \"His Fleece Was White as Snow\" (1978), both published by Manna Music.\n\nIn 1984 he announced to his friends, family, and co-ministers that he became an atheist, and appeared on AM Chicago (hosted by Oprah Winfrey) later that year on a show about \"kicking the religion habit\".\n\nBarker and Gaylor met when both were guests on the show. They began dating six months later and married in 1987. They have a daughter, Sabrina Delata.\n\nHe is a member of the Lenni Lenape (Delaware Indian) Tribe of Native Americans, and in 1991 edited and published \"Paradise Remembered\", a collection of his grandfather's stories as a Lenape boy in Indian Territory.\n\nBarker belongs to a number of high-IQ societies, including the Prometheus Society.\n\nHe is the current co-president with his wife Annie Laurie Gaylor of the Freedom From Religion Foundation, an American Freethought organization that promotes the separation of church and state. Barker is co-host of \"Freethought Radio\", a radio program based in Madison, Wisconsin for atheists, agnostics, and other freethinkers that began in 2006 and has included interviews with Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Steven Pinker, Christopher Hitchens, Philip Pullman, Daniel C. Dennett, Julia Sweeney, and Michael Newdow.\n\nBarker has appeared on dozens of national television and radio programs to discuss and debate issues related to atheism and the separation of state and church. He has discussed nativity scenes on government property, the campaign against a Mother Teresa stamp, prayer in public schools, and has appeared on \"Oprah Winfrey\", \"The O’Reilly Factor\", \"Tucker Carlson\", \"Laura Ingraham\", \"Phil Donahue\", \"Hannity & Colmes\", \"Maury Povich\", \"Good Morning America\", \"Sally Jessy Raphael\", and \"Tom Leykis\", as well as many international television and radio shows.\n\nHe was featured in a \"New York Times\" article about the growing of atheism in Southern states, has given addresses on his own de-conversion across the United States, and has participated in more than 125 debates around the country.\n\nBarker and his wife host a weekly one-hour radio program, \"Freethought Radio\". It is carried on several stations throughout the Midwest and is available through podcast.\nMusicals\nBooks\nMusic albums\n\n"}
{"id": "18208758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18208758", "title": "Dimitar Ilievski-Murato", "text": "Dimitar Ilievski-Murato\n\nDimitar Ilievski - Murato () (1953 in Bitola – May 10, 1989 in Mount Everest) was an alpinist from the Republic of Macedonia representing SFR Yugoslavia, the first Macedonian ever to climb the highest peak of the world, Mount Everest. He died on the descent of Mt. Everest.\n\nMurato, as he was known in his native town Bitola, reached the top of Mount Everest on May 10, 1989 as part of a larger Yugoslavian expedition, of which only few alpinists succeeded to reach the peak. He is noted as the 264th summiter of Mount Everest.\n\nAfter reaching the summit, he put the flags of both former SFR Yugoslavia and SR Macedonia.\n\nIn his honour, a traditional memorial march to Pelister named after him is organized every year around the date of his biggest achievement and tragedy.\n"}
{"id": "22789142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22789142", "title": "Erich Dinges", "text": "Erich Dinges\n\nErich Adam Oskar Dinges (20 November 1911 – 23 April 1953) was an SS-\"Sturmmann\" and member of staff at Auschwitz concentration camp. He was prosecuted at the Auschwitz Trial.\n\nDinges was born in Frankfurt am Main. He worked as a driving instructor. He joined the Nazi party and the SS on 1 March 1932. From 30 May 1941 to November 1944 he was a chauffeur at Auschwitz.\n\nDinges was tried by the Supreme National Tribunal in Kraków and was sentenced to 5 years in prison 22 December 1947.\n\n"}
{"id": "1031515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031515", "title": "Eva Mendes", "text": "Eva Mendes\n\nEva de la Caridad Méndez (born March 5, 1974), known professionally as Eva Mendes (), is an American actress, model and businesswoman. Her acting career began in the late 1990s, with a series of roles in B films such as \"\" (1998) and \"\" (2000).\n\nMendes's performance in \"Training Day\" (2001) marked a turning point in her career, and led to parts in the commercially successful films \"2 Fast 2 Furious\" (2003) and \"Hitch\" (2005), the latter of which made her one of the first minority actors to play the lead in a mainstream romantic comedy. She starred in \"Ghost Rider\" (2007) and \"The Spirit\" (2008), both film adaptations of comics, and ventured into more dramatic territory with \"We Own the Night\" (2007), \"\" (2009), \"Last Night\" (2010), and \"The Place Beyond the Pines\" (2012). Her other films include \"Out of Time\" (2003), \"The Women\" (2008), \"The Other Guys\" (2010), and \"Girl in Progress\" (2012).\n\nMendes has appeared in several music videos for artists like Will Smith, and has also been an ambassador for brands, including Calvin Klein, Cartier, Reebok, Pantene shampoo, Morgan, and Peek & Cloppenburg. She has designed for New York & Company and is the creative director of CIRCA Beauty, a makeup line sold at Walgreens.\n\nMendes was born in Miami, Florida, to Cuban parents Eva Pérez Suárez and Juan Carlos Méndez, and raised by her mother in the Los Angeles suburb of Glendale after her parents' divorce. Mendes was raised a Roman Catholic and at one time even considered becoming a Catholic nun. Her mother worked at Mann's Chinese Theatre and later for an aerospace company, and her father ran a meat distribution business. Mendes had one older brother, Juan Carlos Méndez, Jr. (1963–2016), who died from throat cancer. She also has an older sister, Janet, and a younger paternal half-brother, Carlos Alberto \"Carlo\" Méndez. She attended Hoover High School in Glendale, and later studied marketing at California State University, Northridge, but left college to pursue acting under Ivana Chubbuck.\n\nMendes began her acting career after a talent manager saw her photo in a friend's portfolio. Her first film role was that of one in a group teenagers who become lost in middle America in the direct-to-video horror film \"\". Mendes was disappointed in her performance and soon hired an acting coach. She subsequently took on the roles of a bridesmaid in the comedy \"A Night at the Roxbury\" (1998), with Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan, a housekeeper in the fantasy family film \"My Brother the Pig\" (1999), with Scarlett Johansson, and that of an ill-fated film student in the slasher film \"\" (2000).\n\nMendes starred opposite Steven Seagal in the action thriller \"Exit Wounds\" (2001), which made over US$73 million worldwide. According to Mendes, her voice was dubbed in the editing, with a producer telling her that she \"didn’t sound intelligent enough\". Her breakthrough though came later in 2001 with her performance as the mistress of a corrupt cop in Antoine Fuqua's crime thriller \"Training Day\", alongside Denzel Washington and Ethan Hawke. She described her role as \"privotal\" in her career, stating that it motivated her to keep going as an actress, as she was \"bored\" doing \"terrible cheesy horrible\" films before she obtained it. \"Training Day\" was a box office hit, grossing US$104.5 million.\n\nHer role in \"Training Day\" led to larger film parts and Mendes soon established herself as a Hollywood actress. While her sole film release in 2002 was the crime comedy \"All About the Benjamins\", in which she played the girlfriend of a con artist, Mendes had roles on four studio feature films released throughout 2003. \"2 Fast 2 Furious\" teamed her with Paul Walker and Tyrese Gibson, portraying a United States Customs Service agent working undercover for a notorious Argentine drug lord. The film gave Mendes a much wider exposure, grossing over US$236 million globally. The Western action film \"Once Upon a Time in Mexico\" saw her star with Antonio Banderas and Salma Hayek, as the daughter of a Mexican drug lord. While reviews for the film were mixed, it made US$98.1 million.\n\nMendes reunited with Danzel Washington for the thriller \"Out of Time\", in which she played the soon-to-be ex-wife of a well-respected chief of police. The film was a moderate commercial success, and Roger Ebert, in his review for the film, described Mendes' role as a \"curiously forgiving character, who feels little rancor for the straying [husband] and apparently still likes him; maybe there would have been more suspense if she were furious with him\". Her last 2003 film was the comedy \"Stuck on You\", with Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear, in which she played an aspiring actress. She starred with Will Smith, as the love interest of a professional dating consultant, in her next film, \"Hitch\" (2005), making her one of the first minority actors to play the lead in a mainstream romantic comedy. \"USA Today\" described it as \"her best screen role to date\", and \"Detroit Free Press\" remarked: \"Smith and Mendes are terrific together. He brings her game up so high you'd think she has had as many good parts as Smith\". \"Hitch\" was the highest-grossing comedy in North America until 2018, and made US$368.1 million in its global theatrical run. In 2005, Mendes also starred in the little-seen films \"The Wendell Baker Story\" and \"Guilty Hearts\".\n\nIn the romantic comedy \"Trust the Man\" (2006), Mendes starred with David Duchovny, Billy Crudup, Julianne Moore, and Maggie Gyllenhaal, playing what \"The A.V. Club\" described as a \"vapid sexpot\". The much criticized \"Ghost Rider\" (2007), based on the Marvel Comics character, featured Mendes as the love interest of the titular character (Nicolas Cage). The film fared well commercially, opening atop at the North American box office, with earnings of more than US$45 million; it eventually made over US$228 million worldwide. She starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix and Mark Wahlberg in the thriller \"We Own the Night\" (also 2007), as the girlfriend of an NYPD captain. Critic Peter Travers found the film to be \"defiantly, refreshingly unhip\" and noted that \"sizzle comes naturally\" from Mendes. In 2007, she also starred in the films \"Live!\" and \"Cleaner\", both of which went unnoticed by audiences, and made an uncredited cameo appearance in the comedy \"Knocked Up\".\n\nIn 2008, Mendes took on the role of a perfume salesgirl in Saks Fifth Avenue in the all-female comedy \"The Women\", opposite Meg Ryan, Annette Bening, Debra Messing, and Jada Pinkett Smith. Though a commercial success, \"The Women\" was panned by critics, with Mendes earning a nomination for the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Actress for her performance. She also played the \"femme fatale\" Sand Saref in 2008's \"The Spirit\", based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner. It received lackluster reviews from critics, who deemed it melodramatic, unoriginal, and sexist. Her only 2009 film release was the crime drama \"\", which reunited her with Nicolas Cage, playing a prostitute, and again, his love interest. While the film found a limited audience in theaters, it garnered acclaim, appearing on many top ten lists of the year.\n\nMendes reunited with previous collaborators Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg for the action comedy \"The Other Guys\" (2010), in which she portrayed the wife of a mild-mannered forensic NYPD accountant (Farrell). It was a commercial success, grossing US$170.4 million globally. In 2010, she also played the co-worker and the love interest of a committed man in Massy Tadjedin's romantic drama \"Last Night\", alongside Keira Knightley and Sam Worthington. While she was initially reluctant to star, worrying that the character would \"lack originality\" and was \"too seductive\", she agreed to play the role after meeting with Tadjedin; she said: \"It was great to connect with a female director and talk about this woman and not objectify her as the other woman but give her a real true life and make her honest[...]. Thank God I did.\"\n\nIn 2011, Mendes appeared in an uncredited cameo in \"Fast Five\", reprising her role from \"2 Fast 2 Furious\". In 2012, she starred in the dramedy \"Girl in Progress\", as a single mom raising her fourteen-year-old daughter, and in the art fantasy drama \"Holy Motors\", as Kay M, a role originally written for Kate Moss. While \"Girl in Progress\" earned Mendes an ALMA Award nomination for Favorite Movie Actress, she described \"Holy Motors\" as \"the coolest, most creative thing I've ever done\". In \"The Place Beyond the Pines\" (also 2012), a generational drama directed by Derek Cianfrance and alongside Ryan Gosling and Bradley Cooper, Mendes portrayed the former lover of a motorcycle stuntman. The film was a moderate commercial success, and \"Entertainment Weekly\", in its review, described her performance as \"quietly heartbreaking\". She also visited Sierra Leone and was featured in the PBS documentary \"\", which aired in October 2012.\n\nIn 2013, Mendes appeared in the HBO comedy film \"Clear History\", as a formerly heavy-set woman, and in 2014, she starred as a cabaret show performer in Ryan Gosling's directorial debut \"Lost River\", which competed in the Un Certain Regard section at the Cannes Film Festival.\n\nMendes appeared in the Pet Shop Boys' music video for \"Se a vida é (That's the Way Life Is)\" in 1996, Aerosmith's music video for \"Hole in My Soul\" in 1997, and Will Smith's music video for \"Miami\" in 1998. She also appeared in the music video for The Strokes' \"The End Has No End\" in 2004.\n\nIn 2005, Mendes was employed by Revlon as an international spokesperson, and participated in their campaign to raise funds for breast cancer research. In December 2007, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) used a nude photo of Mendes for their anti-fur campaign. Mendes was a spokesmodel for the 2008 Campari calendar, and in July 2008, she was announced as the international face of Australia's 30 Days of Fashion & Beauty event. She made guest appearances in that country at the month-long festival in September. She also appeared nude in a 2008 print advertisement for Calvin Klein's Secret Obsession perfume, an ad which was banned in the United States.\n\nMendes has been a spokesperson for Calvin Klein, Magnum, and the chocolate milk brand Cocio. She also promoted Thierry Mugler's Angel fragrance, Reebok shoes, and Pantene shampoo. In 2011, Mendes appeared in a Peek & Cloppenburg clothing catalog.\n\nMendes has a line of bed linens and dinnerware that is sold at Macy's. In February 2013, she partnered with New York & Co. to launch her own fashion line, Eva by Eva Mendes. She is also the creative director of the makeup brand CIRCA Beauty, which launched exclusively at Walgreens in 2015.\n\nIn 2010, Mendes sang on \"Pimps Don't Cry,\" a song featured in \"The Other Guys,\" and performed a duet with CeeLo Green on \"Pimps Don't Cry.\" In 2011, she recorded a version of \"The Windmills of Your Mind.\". She also featured in the single \"Miami\" sang by Will Smith and DJ Jazzy Jeff, which was released in May 1991.\n\nMendes' public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal. Many media outlets have cited her as one of the world's most beautiful Latin women, and she has been often considered a sex symbol. She once embraced that status, saying it was \"partially self-created [...] I think at times I play up my sexiness. And there's times where I don't\", though she does not let it to interfere with her film work: \"I like it when it doesn't limit my career. It's a part of my life, but on a secondary plane\". Her professional trajectory throughout the 2000s, nevertheless, tended to gravitate towards parts that relied heavily on her looks.\n\nMendes ranked 54th, 12th, 7th, 7th, and 11th in \"Maxim\" magazine's Hot 100 issue in 2002, 2005, 2007, 2008, and 2010 respectively, and appeared several times on the cover. She also ranked 80th, 23rd and 44th in \"FHM\" magazine's \"100 Sexiest Women in the World\" supplement in 2004, 2005, 2006. She was voted number four in the 2008 edition, and number one in the 2009 edition, of AskMen.com's Top 99 Most Desirable Women. \"People\" also named her one of 2012's Most Beautiful at Every Age.\n\nMendes was in a relationship with filmmaker George Augusto from 2002 to 2010.\n\nShe began dating Ryan Gosling in 2011, who she met on the set of \"The Place Beyond the Pines\", in which they both starred. The couple have two daughters: Esmeralda (born September 12, 2014) and Amada Lee (born April 29, 2016). Her first daughter's middle name and her second daughter's first name (Amada) is her grandmother's name, which means \"beloved\" in Spanish. It is also the name of the character Mendes played in \"We Own The Night\" (2007), which she believes to be her best performance on screen.\n\nMendes is a pescatarian for both ethical and health reasons. She also practices Transcendental Meditation.\n\n"}
{"id": "32788800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32788800", "title": "Francis Fuller the Younger", "text": "Francis Fuller the Younger\n\nFrancis Fuller the younger (1670–1706), was an English medical writer.\n\nFuller was the second son of Francis Fuller, nonconformist divine, and his wife Bridget. He was born at Bristol, and entered at St. John's College, Cambridge, in 1687. He graduated B.A. at Cambridge in 1691, and M.A. in 1704. He had severe hypochondriasis following his too vigorous external treatment of an attack of itch. The hypochondriasis was accompanied by dyspepsia, and he cured himself by exercise on horseback and by emetics. This led him to write a book on the use of exercise in the treatment of disease, called \"Medicina Gymnastica, or a Treatise concerning the power of Exercise with respect to the Animal Œconomy, and the great necessity of it in the Cure of several Distempers\", 1704. A second edition was published in the same year, a third in 1707, a fifth in 1718, a sixth in 1728, and a ninth and last in 1777. Sydenham had been an advocate for fresh air and exercise as remedies in consumption and hypochondriasis, and Fuller enlarges upon his suggestions. He shows but little knowledge of disease; he thought highly of millipedes in the treatment of rheumatism, and of liquorice in that of consumption, but has the merit of recommending the regular use of chafing, or, as it is now called, massage, where exercise by locomotion is impossible. He died in June 1706.\n"}
{"id": "15751750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15751750", "title": "François-Nicolas Vincent", "text": "François-Nicolas Vincent\n\nFrançois-Nicolas Vincent (born 1766 or 1767; died March 24, 1794) was the Secretary General of the War Ministry in the First French Republic, and a significant figure in the French Revolution. A member of the Cordelier Club, he is best known as a radical sans-culottes leader and prominent member of the Hébertist faction.\n\nThe son of a prison concierge and a native Parisian, Vincent worked as a lawyer's clerk and is believed to have lived in substantial poverty until 1792, at which point he became an active participant in the radical Revolutionary effort. The youngest of the men to follow Jacques Hébert, Vincent, along with fellow Hébertist Charles-Philippe Ronsin, took the Revolution to the country, becoming revolutionaries-on-a-mission. Upon his return to Paris, Vincent became more active in the Cordelier Club and was soon elected Orator. After this advancement, Vincent was eventually made General Secretary of the War Ministry under Jean Baptiste Noël Bouchotte. It is this job that allowed Vincent to bring more power to the sans-culottes.\n\nJacques Hébert, writer and publisher of the \"La Pere Duchesne\", led Vincent, among others, on a campaign against what they deemed the soft 'moderation' of the Committee of Public Safety, along with attempts to aid in the 'de-Christianization' of France. Vincent supported the overthrow of Maximilien Robespierre and when he and his fellow Hébertists became active enough in their opposition, Robespierre reacted with an arrest and trial for 'treasonous activity'. The Hébertists, along with some of their close friends and companions, were charged with attempting to overthrow the Committee of Public Safety to ensure the re-establishment of the monarchy and conspiring with foreigners to take down the Republic. No physical evidence was given to support these allegations but, even so, Vincent and his fellow Hébertists were found guilty and sentenced to death. On March 24, 1794, at the age of twenty-seven, François-Nicolas Vincent was beheaded at the guillotine along with Hébert, Ronsin, Momoro, and the other leaders of the Hébertist faction.\n\n"}
{"id": "333487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333487", "title": "Gennadiy Nikonov", "text": "Gennadiy Nikonov\n\nGennadiy Nikolayevich Nikonov (; August 11, 1950 - May 14, 2003) was a Russian gun engineer. His most famous accomplishments were probably as the designer of the AN-94 assault rifle, and the \"straight-back bolt.\" Nikonov held 44 Copyright Certificates, and was awarded the titles of \"The Best Designer of the Company\" and \"The Best Designer of the Ministry.\" In memory of the outstanding designer, a memorial plaque on the building design and weapons center of \"Izhmash\" (2003), and at the place of his burial (2007).\n\nNikonov was born in Izhevsk. His father and mother were employed at Izhmash, a Soviet arms factory. His father was a mechanic. Nikonov graduated from technical school in 1968 . At Izhmash, he took evening classes. In 1975 he graduated from the Izhevsk Mechanical Institute certified as a gun engineer.\n\nHe started work at Izhmash in the Department of the Chief Arms Designer. His first position was as a technician. In technical school, Nikonov became obsessed with underwater rifles. He won his first professional recognition by designing a trigger mechanism for an underwater rifle.\n\nHe designed various rifles, including air guns and sporting firearms. One of the most praised was the stylish, accurate \"Izjubr\" (Buck Deer) carbine - a limited edition luxury weapon. Nikonov was appointed as a senior project engineer to design single-shot bolt action rifles and fully automatic weapons. In this assignment he patented a number of mechanisms and components. One of the most significant was the \"straight-pull bolt,\" first used in a winter biathlon target rifle.\n\nNikonov also worked on research projects. In the middle 1970s he entered a post-graduate Ph.D course. From 1980 to 1985 he worked on projects for the Soviet Ministry for Defense Industry. Examples of his innovation include his twin-barreled machine gun and the \"blow back shifted pulse (BBSP)\" used on the AN-94. It is said that his high quality and quantity of work helped him advance to higher positions at work.\n\nHe was married with two sons, Nikolay and Yuri. Tatiana, Nikonov's wife, works as an arms designer in the same bureau.\n\n"}
{"id": "10442606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10442606", "title": "George Feyer (pianist)", "text": "George Feyer (pianist)\n\nGeorge Feyer (Hungary, 27 October 1908 – New York, 21 October 2001) was a classically trained pianist who turned to 'light' music upon graduating, and released a series of top-selling \"Echoes of...\" records on Vox Records. Feyer was born György Fejér, but westernised his name after leaving Europe. (\"Feher\" means 'white' in Hungarian, and \"\"Fejér\" is thus the equivalent of the antiquated spelling of the English name \"Whyte\".)\n\nFeyer remembered as a young boy hating his piano practice so much that his mother, a piano teacher, had to tie his legs to the piano stool. He studied at the Franz Liszt Academy of Music in Budapest [alongside conductor Sir Georg Solti], and at the Budapest Conservatory of Music. Among his teachers were Ernő Dohnányi, Zoltán Kodály and Béla Bartók. By this time he was developing an interest in light music and was playing in the evenings in many of the boîtes around Budapest, such as the Cafe Dunacorso where he accompanied Zsuzsa Darvas, a popular diseuse.\n\nFeyer graduated, aged 23, in 1932 and caused a minor scandal by turning to pop music full-time. It is ironic that he became a pianist after having been a student of composition and conducting, whereas his classmate Georg Solti, a piano prodigy, became one of the world's most acclaimed conductors.\n\nOne of Feyer's first jobs was accompanying silent films, but he soon moved to night clubs, and it was not long before he and his drummer began working around Europe. His first trip away from Budapest was in 1934, to Barcelona, Spain.\n\nFor the next five years he toured Europe. In Paris a great fan was the exiled Duke of Windsor (previously Edward VIII of the United Kingdom, who had abdicated the throne of England in December 1936, and who lived in France from 1937 to 1939). The Duke particularly liked the accordion, so Feyer and his drummer drew straws to decide which of them would have to learn to play it. The drummer lost, and Feyer was able to continue playing the piano.\n\nIn 1939 Feyer returned to Hungary to be with his family, but was moved to German factories in a forced labour brigade. He was imprisoned in Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in the last year of the war, from where he was rescued in 1945 by the Allies.\n\nFeyer returned to Budapest, and in late 1945 married Judith Hoffman, whom he had met during the war. The couple had a son (Robert, b. Budapest, November 1946), and Feyer continued his musical career, playing in the Allied Officers' Club in Budapest (there was four-power nominal occupation in all the former Axis powers, although in Eastern Europe the bulk of the troops were Soviet). After the establishment of Russian Stalinist Communist rule, Feyer fled to Switzerland in January 1948, where he had found a job playing at a resort hotel. He persuaded the owners to allow him to bring his family. At the time he played in a duo with a drummer, whose wife came too.\n\nBy the time the original contract was fulfilled, the Iron Curtain had truly dropped and Feyer and his drummer (also named George) decided not to return to Hungary, fearing persecution based on their contact with Western powers. They stayed in Switzerland, gaining popularity through successive jobs at the big hotels. By 1950, when Hungary revolted, Switzerland would not allow them to become permanent residents on old Hungarian passports.\n\nFeyer’s younger brother Paul had left Europe before the war, and went to Venezuela. While there Paul won a lottery, and used the money to come to New York City, where he settled with the existing Hungarian community. He quickly married a young woman from within that community, and thereby got permanent U.S. residency and later citizenship. Feyer's father had died during the war, probably of alcoholism, and Paul had brought their mother to the U.S. in 1947. Having two immediate family members in the U.S. helped George Feyer to obtain a visa. (Feyer's mother lived for another forty years in New York, dying at the age of 102, in 1987.) The family arrived and settled in New York in January, 1951, changing the spelling of the name to Feyer almost immediately, as his brother Paul had done, to make it easier to pronounce, and to get work. George's family became U.S. citizens in 1956 after the requisite five-year waiting period. Feyer lived there for the rest of his life. (Feyer's drummer and his wife were also able to come to the United States, but they did not continue to work together in New York.)\n\nWithin a few months of arrival he made his New York debut at the famous Gogi's La Rue, in The Plush Room. From 1951 to 1954 Feyer had a regular spot in Park Avenue's Delmonico Hotel [now known as Trump Park Avenue]. It was during this period that Feyer began his recording career, making his first record Echoes of Paris in 1953. (Although Feyer made his recordings with light accompaniment, all his hotel and nightclub shows were solo.)\n\nA handful more such records appeared in the next couple of years, and in 1955 Feyer signed a contract with New York's luxurious boutique hotel The Carlyle to appear in their Café Carlyle. He performed there for 13 years in a room specially set up for him, with decor provided by a Hungarian interior designer. In August 1968, when he took his usual vacation on Nantucket Island, Bobby Short was hired to cover for him. In Short's words, \"He took off two weeks that summer, and Peter Sharp, who owns The Carlyle, asked Ahmet and Nesuhi Ertegün, of Atlantic Records, who to get as a replacement. They said, ‘Get Bobby Short.’ I did my best to make those two weeks as successful as anything I’d done, and when Feyer’s contract ran out they offered me half a year. Feyer found a better deal elsewhere, and I work there now eight months of the year.\" The management had changed, and the move turned out to be permanent. Short was to remain at The Carlyle for a fabled uninterrupted run until 2004, the year before his death.\n\nFeyer joked that he had \"taken the most expensive vacation of them all,\" and his son later said that he never set foot in The Carlyle again. However he soon found work in the Stanhope Hotel's Rembrandt Room. Feyer remained there for 12 years, until 1980. He spent his remaining two years of active performing at the Hideaway Room in the Waldorf-Astoria, another famous hotel in New York.\n\nFeyer retired in December 1982, after the death of his wife. In 1985 he remarried the former Marta Kleyman (a cousin of his brother Paul's first wife), and continued to appear at private parties and occasional hotel engagements, mostly as favours to friends, particularly in Palm Springs, California, where his second wife owned a home. For many years, until no longer physically able to do so (in 1999), he played weekly at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, where he had been volunteering since 1961.\n\nFeyer died just six days before his 93rd birthday, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was survived by his son (who lives in San Francisco), three grandsons, and second wife (who died within the year after he died).\n\nThe Department of Music at Princeton University dedicated a \"George and Judith Feyer Practice Room\" to their memory on 2 June 2003.\n\nFrom 1953 to 1956, Feyer released a series of LPs on the VOX record label. The records were all similarly entitled \"Echoes of ...\". The first, \"Echoes of Paris\", was a huge hit, leading to 12 others. The music consisted of popular songs and melodies, played by Feyer on the piano in his own inimitable arrangements, with light guitar and rhythm accompaniment.\n\nIn 1957 Feyer released his only two records with orchestra: one each of the songs of Cole Porter and Jerome Kern. From 1958 to 1959 Feyer recorded four albums for RCA Victor, and in 1960 he recorded his first live album \"An Evening At The Café Carlyle\", for Cadence Records.\n\nFrom the early 1960s onwards Feyer recorded a series of albums [including a second live album] for Decca, who also reissued three of his VOX records.\n\nIn 1969 Feyer recorded an LP for Kapp Records. Sometime after 1970 he recorded his third live album, \"At The Stanhope\", which was available only from The Stanhope itself. Feyer's final three recordings were for Vanguard Records: \"The Essential George Gershwin\" (1974), \"The Essential Cole Porter\" (1976), and \"The Essential Jerome Kern\" (1978). These three double-albums are the only of Feyer's recordings subsequently to have been officially issued on CD. However the issue of the Jerome Kern CD is missing the six tracks from the original LP which had contained an integral cello part throughout. In addition, various other tracks on the original LP had contained briefer cello parts, and these sections of those tracks were also all cut from the CD issue. The cello player was Evangeline Benedetti, a cellist with the New York Philharmonic since 1967. She has said that she knows nothing about why her parts were comprehensively edited out of the CD issue of the recording.\n\nThe 10-inch release of Feyer's first record, \"Echoes of Paris\", is mentioned in Chapter 5 of Ian Fleming's fourth James Bond novel, \"Diamonds Are Forever\" (published 1956). Tiffany calls it the “Best light record ever made.”\n\nVOX - \"Echoes of series\" [ordered in sequence of 10\" catalogue number]\n\n\"Echoes of Paris\" [1953, 10\" VX 500] [1953, 1956, 12\" VX 25.200]\n\n\"Echoes of Vienna\" [1953, 10\" VX 550] [1953, 1956, 12\" VX 25.250]\n\n\"Echoes of Italy\" [10\" VX 620] [1953, 1956, 12\" VX 25.320]\n\n\"Echoes of Broadway\" [1954, 10\" VX 650] [1954, 1956, 12\" VX 25.350]\n\n\"Echoes of Latin America\" [1954, 1956, 12\" VX 25.370]\n\n\"Echoes of Childhood\" [10\" VX 710] [12\" VX 25.410]\n\n\"More Echoes of Paris\" [10\" VX 730] [1955, 1956, 12\" VX 25.430]\n\n\"Echoes of Hollywood\" [10\" VX 800] [1955, 1956, 12\" VX 25.400] [NB sides 1 and 2 reversed between 10\" and 12\"]\n\n\"Echoes of Budapest\" [1955, 10\" VX 850] [1955, 1956, 12\" VX 25.450]\n\n\"Echoes of Christmas\" [10\" VX 860] [1955, 12\" VX 25.010] [NB 10\" tracks in different order]\n\n\"Echoes of Continent\" [1957, 10\" VX 880] [was there a 12\"?] [one new track; all others are re-recordings of tracks which appear on previous records]\n\n\"Echoes of Spain\" [10\" VX 910] [1956, 12\" VX 25.070]\n\n\"My Fair Lady\" [12\" VX 25.340]\n\n\"Jerome Kern\" [1957, 12\" VX 25.500] [was there a 10\"?]\n\n\"Cole Porter\" [1957, 10\" VX 1270] [1957, 12\" VX 25.510]\n\n\"The King and I\" & \"Carousel\" [1956, 10\" VX 21.300] [1956, 12\" PL 21.300] [NB 10\" tracks in different order]\n\n\"This is Feyer\" [12\" “Voxample” LP SFP-1]\n\nRCA Victor\n\n\"South Pacific\" & \"Oklahoma!\" [1958, mono 12\" LPM-1731]\n\n\"Memories of Viennese Operettas\" [1958, mono 12\" RD-27130 (UK) / LPM-1862 (US)]\n\n\"Memories of Popular Operas\" [1958, stereo 12\" LSP-1926]\n\n\"Today’s Hits Tomorrow’s Memories\" [1959, mono 12\" LPM-2051]\n\n\"Music for a Mellow Mood\" [mono 12\" 12-track compilation CPM 119] [RCA Victor Record Club exclusive] [no original material; all tracks taken from previous two RCA Victor LPs]\n\nCadence\n\n\"An Evening at the Café Carlyle\" [1960, 12\" stereo live Cadence LP CLP 25051]\n\nDECCA series\n\n\"I Still Like To Play French Songs The Best\" [stereo 12\" DL 74333]\n\n\"But Oh! Those Italian Melodies\" [mono 12\" DL 4411]\n\n\"Latin Songs Everybody Knows\" [stereo 12\" DL 74420]\n\n\"Golden Waltzes Everybody Knows\" [mono 12\" DL 4455]\n\n\"A Nightcap with George Feyer\" [post-1964, mono 12\" DL 4625]\n\n\"Piano Magic Hollywood\" [post-1965, stereo 12\" DL 74647]\n\n\"My Fair Lady\" [mono 12\" DL 4804] appears to be a reissue of VOX 12\" LP\n\n\"The New Echoes of Paris\" [stereo 12\" DL 74808]\n\n\"Echoes of Christmas\" [mono 12\" DI 74814 ??] appears to be a reissue of VOX 12\" LP\n\n\"Echoes of Love\" [post-1966, stereo 12\" DL 74858]\n\n\"Echoes of Romance\" [stereo 12\" DL 74902]\n\n\"Echoes of Childhood\" [enhanced for stereo 12\" DL 74907] appears to be a reissue of VOX 12\" LP\n\nKapp\n\n\"Dancing In the Dark\" \"My Way\" [1969, 12\" stereo LP] Kapp KS-3611\n\nRembrandt\n\n\"At the Stanhope\" [post-1970, Rembrandt Records live 12\" LP, available only from The Stanhope 34845]\n\n\"Echoes of Paris-Vienna-Italy: The best of three on one\" [Rembrandt Records 12\" 34846]\n\nVANGUARD – “Essential” series [note discrepancy in sequence of LP release/recording dates and catalogue numbers]\n\n\"George Gershwin\" [1974, 12\" stereo double LP VSD 61/62] [CD OVC 6002]\n\n\"Cole Porter\" [1976, 12\" stereo double LP VSD 93/94] [CD OVC 6014]\n\n\"Jerome Kern\" [rec. 1978, 12\" stereo double LP VSD 87/88] [CD OVC 6015]\n\n"}
{"id": "37791247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37791247", "title": "Heinz Thilo", "text": "Heinz Thilo\n\nHeinz Thilo (8 October 1911 in Elberfeld 13 May 1945 in Hohenelbe) was a German SS officer and a physician in the Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz.\n\nThilo joined the Nazi party in December 1930 and the SS in 1934. From 1938 to 1941 he worked as a gynaecologist for the Lebensborn organization. After six months of war service he was assigned to the Auschwitz concentration camp in July 1942. There he became responsible for the infirmary camp with the rank of \"Obersturmführer\". Thilo called the camp the \"anus mundi\" (\"anus of the world\"). He was one of the physicians commonly performing the \"selections\" in which incoming Jews were divided into those deemed able to work and those who were to be gassed immediately. Thilo also participated in the liquidation of the Theresienstadt family camp on March 8, 1944, when 3,791 Jews were murdered in the gas chambers.\n\nIn October 1944 Thilo was transferred to Gross-Rosen where he served as camp physician until February 1945. He fled shortly before the camp's liberation. After the war Thilo committed suicide in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "2814861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2814861", "title": "Henry Whitney Bellows", "text": "Henry Whitney Bellows\n\nHenry Whitney Bellows (June 11, 1814 – January 30, 1882) was an American clergyman, and the planner and president of the United States Sanitary Commission, the leading soldiers' aid society, during the American Civil War. \nUnder his leadership, the USSC became the major source of spiritual and physical aid for wounded Union soldiers.\n\nBellows was born in Boston, Massachusetts. He graduated at Harvard College in 1832, and at the Harvard Divinity School in 1837, held a brief pastorate (1837–1838) at Mobile, Alabama, and in 1839 became pastor of the First Congregational (Unitarian) church in New York City (afterwards All Souls church), in charge of which he remained until his death.\n\nHere Bellows acquired a high reputation as a pulpit orator and lyceum lecturer, and was a recognized leader in the Unitarian Church in America. For many years after 1846 he edited \"The Christian Inquirer\", a Unitarian weekly paper, and he was also for some time an editor of \"The Christian Examiner\". In 1849, he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Honorary member. In 1857 he delivered a series of lectures in the Lowell Institute course, on The Treatment of Social Diseases.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Civil War, he planned the United States Sanitary Commission, of which he was the only president (1861 to 1878). He inspired the organization of chapters of the USSC in cities across the country, and the recruiting of thousands of volunteers to help Union soldiers. The organization raised millions of dollars for the war effort and to support soldiers and veterans.\n\nHe was the first president of the first Civil Service Reform Association organized in the United States (1877), and was an organizer of the Union League Club of New York and of the Century Association in New York City. Together with his parishioner and friend, Peter Cooper, he established Cooper Union, the design school that was free for students until the 21st century. In 1865 he proposed and organized the National Conference of Unitarian and other Christian churches, and from 1865 to 1880 was chairman of its council.\n\nHe died in New York City on 30 January 1882. A bronze memorial tablet by Augustus Saint-Gaudens was unveiled in All Souls church in 1886.\n\nHis published writings include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100434", "title": "Hua Guofeng", "text": "Hua Guofeng\n\nHua Guofeng (; born Su Zhu; 16 February 1921 – 20 August 2008) was a Chinese politician who served as Chairman of the Communist Party of China and Premier of the People's Republic of China. Hua held the top offices of the government, party, and the military after Premier Zhou and Chairman Mao's death, but was forced from power by more established party figures in 1978 and thereafter retreated from the political scene.\n\nOriginally from Shanxi province, Hua rose to power as a regional official in Hunan between 1949 and 1971, first serving as the prefecture Party Committee Secretary of the Xiangtan, Mao's home area, then as the party secretary in the province during the latter stages of the Cultural Revolution. Hua was elevated to the national stage in early 1976, and was mainly known for his unswerving loyalty to Mao. After the death of Zhou Enlai, Mao elevated Hua to the position of Premier of the State Council, overseeing government work, and of First Vice Chairman of the Communist Party, which made him Mao's designated successor.\n\nOn 6 October 1976, shortly after the death of Mao, Hua removed the Gang of Four from political power by arranging for their arrests in Beijing. Afterwards he took on the titles of party chairman and Chairman of the Central Military Commission. Hua is thus far the only leader to have simultaneously held the offices of party leader, premier and CMC chairman.\n\nHua attempted moderate reforms and reversing some of the excesses of Cultural Revolution-era policies. However, because of his insistence on continuing the Maoist line and refusal to adopt large-scale reforms, he faced resistance in the upper echelons of the party. In December 1978, a group of party veterans led by Deng Xiaoping, a pragmatic reformer, forced Hua from power but allowed him to retain some titles. Hua gradually faded into political obscurity, but continued to insist on the correctness of Maoist principles. He is remembered as a largely benign transitional figure in modern Chinese political history.\n\nBorn in Jiaocheng County, Shanxi province, Hua joined the Communist Party of China (CPC) in 1938 as a part of counter-Japanese resistance, after having joined the Long March in 1936. Like many Communists of the era who took on revolutionary names, he changed his name to Huá Guófēng as an abbreviation of \"Zhōnghuá kàngrì jiùguó xiānfēng duì\" (, Chinese Anti-Japanese National Salvation Vanguard). After having served in the 8th Route Army during 12 years under General Zhu De's command, he became propaganda chief for the county Party committee in 1947.\n\nHua moved with the PLA to Hunan in 1949, where he married Han Zhijun in January, and remained there as a local official until 1971. He was appointed Party secretary for Xiangyin County in August, just before the establishment of the People's Republic of China. In 1952, he was appointed secretary of Xiangtan Special District, which included Mao's hometown, Shaoshan. In this role, he built a memorial hall dedicated to Mao. When Mao visited the site, in June 1959, he was favorably impressed. Mao Zedong first met Hua in 1955, and apparently was impressed by his simplicity.\n\nHua participated in the 1959 Lushan Conference (an enlarged plenary session of the CPC Central Committee) as a member of the Hunan Provincial Party delegation, and wrote two investigative reports defending communes and the Great Leap Forward. He denounced Defense Minister Peng Dehuai and other critics of the Great Leap, and argued that the death toll, said to number up to 30-40 million people, was exaggerated. Hua's sycophantic loyalty to Mao thus ensured his political future.\n\nHua's influence increased with the Cultural Revolution, as he supported it and led the movement in Hunan. He organized the preparation for the establishment of the local Revolutionary Committee in 1967, of which he was a deputy chairman, and gained wide attention for suppressing a hard-line extremist faction. In December 1970, he was elected new chairman of the Revolutionary Committee as well as first secretary of the CPC Hunan Committee.\n\nHe was elected a full member of the 9th Central Committee in 1969.\n\nHua was called to Beijing to direct Zhou Enlai's State Council staff office in 1971, but only stayed for a few months before returning to his previous post in Hunan. Later that year, he was appointed as the most junior of the seven-member committee investigating the Lin Biao Affair, a sign of the strong trust Mao had in him. Hua was re-elected to the 10th Central Committee in 1973 and elevated to membership in the Politburo; in the same year, he was put in charge by Zhou Enlai of agricultural development. He became minister of public security and vice-premier in 1975, but his duties were far broader, as he was also chosen to deliver a speech on modernizing agriculture in October of that year which echoed the views of Zhou Enlai.\n\nZhou Enlai died on 8 January 1976, at a time when Deng Xiaoping's reformist alliance was not yet strong enough to stand up to both the ailing Mao Zedong and his Cultural Revolution allies, the Gang of Four (Jiang Qing, Zhang Chunqiao, Wang Hongwen, and Yao Wenyuan). After reading the late premier's eulogy a week later, Deng left Beijing along with several close allies for the relative safety of Guangzhou.\n\nAlthough Mao Zedong had reportedly wanted to appoint Wang Hongwen as Zhou Enlai's successor, he ended up naming Hua as acting premier. At the same time, the leftist-controlled media began denouncing Deng once again (he had been purged during the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution, and was only returned to power in 1973). Popular affection for Zhou was underestimated, however, leading to a confrontation between the radicals' militia allies and Beijing citizens seeking to honor Zhou during the traditional Qingming festival. At the same time, Hua delivered speeches on the \"official line for criticizing Deng Xiaoping\", which were approved by Mao and the Party Central Committee.\n\nDuring the Tiananmen Incident of 1976, thousands of people protested at the militia's removal of wreaths honoring Zhou in front of the Monument to the People's Heroes. Vehicles were burned, offices ransacked and there were reports of many injuries but no deaths. In the aftermath, Deng Xiaoping was blamed for inciting the protests and stripped of all his party and government posts, albeit his party membership was retained at Mao's behest. Shortly thereafter, Hua was elevated to First Vice Chairman of the CPC Central Committee and Premier of the State Council.\n\nFollowing the Tangshan Earthquake in July, Hua visited the devastated area and helped direct relief efforts, while the Gang of Four were nowhere to be seen.\n\nMao died on September 9, 1976. At the time, the highest power organ of the country, the Politburo Standing Committee, consisted of Hua, Ye Jianying, Zhang Chunqiao, and Wang Hongwen; Ye was in semi-retirement, and Zhang and Wang were part of the Gang of Four. Hua knew that in the post-Mao power vacuum, his position vis-a-vis the Gang of Four's would be a zero sum game. That is, if the Gang of Four were not removed through use of force, the Gang may attempt to oust him pre-emptively. Hua made contact with Ye days after Mao's death to discuss plans about the Gang of Four. Ye had grown disillusioned with the Gang before Mao's death, so he and Hua came to a quick agreement to conspire against the Gang. The two enlisted the support of Wang Dongxing, who had command of the elite Unit 8341, as well as other leading figures on the Politburo, including Wu De and Chen Xilian. The group discussed different ways to remove the Gang, including holding a Politburo or Central Committee meeting to oust them through established party procedure, but the idea was shot down because the Central Committee was, at the time, composed of many of the Gang's supporters. Eventually, the group decided to use force.\n\nThe members of the Gang were arrested on October 6, soon after midnight. Hua had summoned Zhang Chunqiao, Wang Hongwen, and Yao Wenyuan to a meeting at Zhongnanhai, ostensibly to discuss the fifth volume of Mao's \"Selected Works\". They were arrested while walking into the meeting at Huairen Hall. According to Hua's own recollection of events, he and Marshal Ye were the only two leaders present at the \"meeting\", awaiting the arrival of the members of the Gang. Upon the arrest of each of the three, Hua personally announced to them the reasons for their detention. Hua said that they had engaged in \"anti-party and anti-socialism\" acts and \"conspired to usurp power\". Jiang Qing and Mao Yuanxin were arrested at their respective residences. A task force led by Geng Biao occupied the headquarters of the party's main propaganda organs, which were considered a part of the Gang's turf at the time. Another group was dispatched to stabilize Shanghai, the Gang's main regional power base. At a Politburo meeting the next day, Hua Guofeng assumed the posts of Chairman of the CPC Central Committee and the Central Military Commission.\n\nDuring his relatively short leadership, Hua was credited for quickly ousting the Gang of Four from political power and thus became the leader whose emergence marked the end of the Cultural Revolution. The jubilation following the incarceration of the Gang of Four and the popularity of the new ruling triumvirate (Hua Guofeng, Ye Jianying, and Li Xiannian, a temporary alliance of necessity) were succeeded by calls for the restoration to power of Deng Xiaoping and the elimination of leftist influence throughout the political system. Hua's economic and political programs involved the restoration of Soviet-style industrial planning and party control similar to that followed by China before the Great Leap Forward. However, this model was rejected by supporters of Deng Xiaoping, who argued for a more market-based economic system. This argument was decisively resolved in Deng's favor in late 1978, which is generally taken as the start of the era of Chinese economic reform. Hua also attempted reforming state protocol as a method of elevating his prestige. In 1978 all party meetings were to hang portraits of Mao and Hua side-by-side, including at the National People's Congress and CPC Party Congress meetings. All schools were required to hang Hua's picture next to Mao's. Hua also changed the Chinese national anthem to incorporate Mao Zedong and the Chinese Communist Party, switching the tone from being war-rallying to purely Communist propaganda. These lyrics were eventually rejected. Hua Guofeng continued to use the terminology of the Cultural Revolution, but he criticized certain aspects of it, including the education reform, the revolutionary committees' activity and other excesses, blaming the Gang of Four. State media referred to him as \"the wise leader\".\n\nIn February 1978, the party met to approve a new state constitution, which Hua was heavily involved in drafting. This document, which attempted to restore some rule of law and planning mechanisms from the PRC's original 1956 constitution, still contained references to continuous revolution and proletarian internationalism; it was replaced only four years later with a different constitution that dropped all mentions of Maoism. Hua and other party conservatives such as Li Xiannian also drafted an ambitious ten year economic plan which sought to create a Soviet-style economy based around heavy industry and energy, but it was quickly scrapped in favor of a cheaper and more doable five-year plan which prioritized light industry and consumer goods.\n\nHua's weak personality and continued loyalty to Maoism did not inspire a nation and party leadership weary of the Cultural Revolution, and he quickly came to be seen as a Mao sycophant with no real ideas of his own. His slogan \"Whatever Chairman Mao said, we will say and whatever Chairman Mao did, we will do\" was soon referred to sarcastically as \"the Two Whatevers\" and became one of the major reasons for his fall from grace. Although Hua later distanced himself from Maoism and began to support some reformist ideas, his unrealistic economic plans proved a further strike against him.\n\nOn October 1979, Hua went on a European tour, the first of its kind for a Chinese leader after 1949. He traveled to West Germany and France. On 28 October Hua visited the United Kingdom and met with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. The two engaged in friendly talks and discussed the future of Hong Kong, which was a British Overseas Territory at the time.\n\nChairman Hua visited Derby's British Rail Railway Technical Centre to observe the development of the Advanced Passenger Train. His visit coincided with the donation of the Chinese Government Railways Steam Locomotive 4-8-4 KF Class No 7 to the National Railway Museum in York. Chairman Hua also went to a farm in Oxfordshire and visited Oxford University.\n\nHua was one of the last foreigners to visit Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the Shah of Iran, before he was overthrown in 1979.\n\nHis interpretation of the Three Worlds Theory, leading to a general rapprochement with Western powers, divided Maoist parties throughout the world. Many of them, including Shining Path, criticized him for this and accused him of being a traitor for ousting Jiang Qing and alinging the Party to the interests of Western imperialists.\n\nAt the 3rd Plenary Session of the 11th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, after which Deng Xiaoping became the \"de facto\" leader of China as his idea for economic reform was adopted by the Party, Hua Guofeng was implicitly criticized for serving concurrently as Chairman of the Central Committee, Chairman of the Central Military Commission and Premier of the State Council. This was reverted between 1980 and 1981, as the three posts were assigned to three different people, but this system was re-established by Jiang Zemin as he became \"paramount leader\" of China.\n\nAs Deng Xiaoping gradually gained control over the CCP, Hua was denounced for promoting the Two Whatevers policy. As early as January 1979, state media had stopped referring to him as \"the wise leader\" and he was replaced by Zhao Ziyang as Premier in 1980, by Hu Yaobang as Party Chairman and by Deng himself as chairman of the Central Military Commission in 1981. Hua gave self-criticism sessions and eventually renounced the Two Whatevers policy as a mistake. Both Zhao and Hu were protégés of Deng who were dedicated to Chinese economic reform. Hua Guofeng was demoted to junior Vice Chairman; and when this post was abolished in 1982, he remained as an ordinary member of the Central Committee, a position which he held until the 16th Party Congress of November 2002, despite having passed the mandatory retirement age of 70 in 1991.\n\nAfter Hua's downfall in 1980-81, the party's official verdict was that he had done good work by removing the Gang of Four, but afterwards committed \"serious errors\".\n\nThe ousting of Hua was significant in at least two respects. First, it demonstrated the unimportance of official titles in the Chinese Communist Party during the late-1970s and early-1980s. Despite being the official leader of the party, the state, and the army, Hua was unable to defeat a leadership challenge by Deng Xiaoping. Second, Hua's ousting reflected the more enlightened policies initiated by Deng Xiaoping in which disgraced party members would merely be stripped of their position, but not jailed or otherwise physically harmed.\n\nIn early 2002, Hua officially lost his seat on the Central Committee of the CPC. It was reported that he retired voluntarily for age and health reasons, although the party did not officially confirm this. He was, however, invited to the 17th Party Congress in 2007 as a special delegate and he appeared at a ceremony in December 2008 to commemorate the 115th anniversary of Mao Zedong's birth.\n\nDespite retaining formal party positions, Hua distanced himself from active participation in politics. His main hobby was grape cultivation, and he kept up with current affairs by subscribing to a host of newspapers. Hua's health deteriorated in 2008, and he was hospitalized for kidney and heart complications. He died in Beijing on 20 August 2008. A cause of death was not given, and as his death occurred during the festive Beijing Olympics, it was not given much attention on state media: merely a 30-second broadcast on the national news program \"Xinwen Lianbo\" and a short paragraph on the corner of the front page of the \"People's Daily\". His funeral, held at Babaoshan Revolutionary Cemetery, held on 30 August, was attended by President Hu Jintao, Premier Wen Jiabao, and the entire Politburo Standing Committee, as well as former leaders Jiang Zemin and Zhu Rongji.\n\nHua married Han Zhijun in January 1949. They had four children, all of whom are surnamed \"Su\" (苏/蘇), in accordance with Hua's birth name. Their first son, Su Hua, is a retired Air Force officer. Their second son, Su Bin, is a retired army officer. Their older daughter, Su Ling, is a party and union official at the Civil Aviation Administration of China. Their younger daughter, Su Li, works for the State Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4362966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4362966", "title": "Identity of Junius", "text": "Identity of Junius\n\nJunius was the pseudonym of a writer who contributed a series of political letters critical of the government of King George III to the \"Public Advertiser\", from 21 January 1769 to 21 January 1772 as well as several other London newspapers such as the \"London Evening Post\".\n\nCharges were brought against several people, of whom two were convicted and sentenced. Junius himself was aware of the advantages of concealment, as he wrote in a letter to John Wilkes dated 18 September 1771. Two generations after the appearance of the letters, speculation as to the authorship of Junius was rife. Sir Philip Francis is now generally, but not universally, believed to be the author.\n\nAccording to Alan Frearson there is scholarly consensus in favour of Sir Philip Francis; he divides the evidence into four classes, and reports that each class \"points most strongly to Francis\".\n\nThis scholarly theory has been called the \"Franciscan theory\", at least since Abraham Hayward's \"More about Junius: The Franciscan theory unsound\" (1868). Numerous subsequent publications have been written by those sceptical about the identification with Francis. John Cannon, editor of an edition of the \"Letters\" published in 1978, adhered to the Franciscan theory. As Francesco Cordasco puts it, \"while the Franciscan theory has recently enjoyed new life, it remains contested and impossible to demonstrate categorically\".\n\nJoseph Parkes, author with Herman Merivale of the \"Memoirs of Sir Philip Francis\" (1867), gave a list of more than forty persons who had been supposed to be Junius.\n\nThere have been other hypotheses put forward. In most cases the attribution is based on nothing more than a vague guess.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46328622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46328622", "title": "Jake Bilardi", "text": "Jake Bilardi\n\nAbu Abdullah al-Australi (1 December 1996 – 11 March 2015), born Jake Bilardi, dubbed by the media as Jihadi Jake, was an eighteen year old Australian suicide bomber considered among the youngest recruited from a Western nation. Bilardi's background has been described as radically different from other Western recruits and symbolises youth issues more than ideological ones. \n\nBorn in Craigieburn, Victoria, Bilardi was a shy, lonely boy and student who was reportedly bullied by peers. Bilardi kept a blog describing his disdain for United States forces committing crimes against Muslims in the Middle East. He became radical after his mother died of cancer. By 2014, he expressed sympathy for Osama bin Laden on Facebook. Concerned that the Australian government was monitoring him, Bilardi turned to building explosives in the event he would not be able to leave the country. A recruiter for Jabhat al-Nusra made contact with him in August 2014 and he left for Iraq.\n\nBilardi died in a suicide attack in Ramadi, Iraq on 11 March 2015. The Iraqi Army stated Bilardi's attack was unsuccessful, killing only himself. ISIL used his death as propaganda, in order to recruit more people to become suicide bombers. According to a friend, Bilardi was concerned his family would \"spend eternity in hell\" for being non-believers.\n\nPrime Minister Tony Abbott, commented on Bilardi's death as an \"absolutely horrific situation\", stating, \"it's very, very important that we do everything we can to try to safeguard our young people against the lure of this shocking, alien and extreme ideology.\" Professor Greg Barton, director of the Centre for Islam and the Modern World considers Bilardi a self-radical motivated by underlying mental health issues instead of religious zealotry.\n\n"}
{"id": "26262442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26262442", "title": "John Grant (musician)", "text": "John Grant (musician)\n\nJohn Grant (born July 25, 1968) is an American singer-songwriter and former member of the Denver-based alternative rock band The Czars. After recording six studio albums with the Czars, he embarked on a solo career in 2010. \n\nHis debut solo album \"Queen of Denmark\" was named in 2010 the best album of the year by \"Mojo\". In 2015, his third studio album, \"Grey Tickles, Black Pressure\" received widespread critical acclaim, and peaked at number 5 in the UK albums chart. His fourth album \"Love is Magic\" was released in 2018 and entered into the top 20 in the UK.\n\nGrant was born in Buchanan, Michigan but later raised in Parker, Colorado by his engineer father and housewife mother. He was brought up in an orthodox Methodist household, at odds with his emerging sexuality. At high school he was, on occasion, bullied both physically and emotionally by his fellow pupils. Grant now sings openly, often with caustic candour, about the landmark experiences that have pained and shaped his complex life to date; It took Grant until his mid-twenties to feel comfortable with his sexuality, having been raised in an environment where it was \"clear that those people were going to hell\". Grant moved to Germany in 1988 to continue his study of languages and is fluent in German, Russian and Spanish, as well as Icelandic, the language of his newly adopted home.\n\nAfter some years in Germany studying and working Grant returned to the US in 1994. Along with Chris Pearson, Andy Moneley, Jeff Linsenmaier and Roger Green he formed the alternative, Denver-based rock band The Czars. They enjoyed critical success, releasing six studio albums, but commercial recognition proved elusive. These were troubling years for Grant as he battled with drug and alcohol addictions. On top of this he struggled with severe anxiety, a condition that has stalked him throughout his adult life. While still with The Czars, Grant, who had always been a huge fan of Cocteau Twins, met with Simon Raymonde. Raymonde had recently started the record label Bella Union and although not particularly looking for new acts at that time he sensed the potential. He agreed to produce two Czars albums. Unfortunately the alcohol and substance abuse continued for Grant and after releasing \"Sorry I Made You Cry\" in 2004 the band split. Following the demise of the band, Grant moved to New York and \"returned to mainstream society\", as he put it at the time. He worked for a while as a waiter before taking up work as a medical interpreter for Russian in a city hospital. He felt compelled to continue writing music during this time. It was also during this time that Grant began the process of confronting the addictions that had been so destructive during his time with the Czars. \"Best Of\" was released in December 2014 on the Bella Union label.\n\nWhile still working and writing in New York, it was the Texan folk rock group Midlake who eventually persuaded Grant to return to the recording studio. They joined him to record and produce what would be his first solo album; \"Queen of Denmark\". It was released on the Bella Union label in April 2010. Described as a \"deeply personal album\" it explores Grant's struggles with alcohol and drug addiction as well as his personal struggle to reconcile his sexuality. \"Brothers\" was how Grant described Midlake when interviewed at a later date for the publication MusicOhm.\n\n\"Queen of Denmark\" received critical acclaim and was chosen as Best Album Of 2010 by the British music magazine Mojo. Grant was also nominated as Best Breakthrough Act at the Mojo Awards and won Best Live Act for Mojo. Filmmaker Andrew Haigh used several songs from his album \"Queen of Denmark\" are used in Haigh's 2011 movie \"Weekend\". \n\nIn 2012 at London's Meltdown Festival while performing on stage with Hercules & Love Affair, Grant announced that he was HIV positive.\n\nDuring a trip to Iceland to perform at the Airwaves Festival, Grant met Birgir Þórarinsson aka Biggi Veira of Icelandic electronic pop group GusGus. The electronic, synthesized dance sounds that Grant was looking for and experimented with in Veira's studio formed much of the backdrop to his second album \"Pale Green Ghosts\", which Veira himself produced. Sinéad O'Connor was guest vocalist on three of the tracks, including \"It Doesn't Matter To Him\". Grant was quickly and deeply touched by the people and landscape of Iceland, so much so that he now has a permanent home in Reykjavík.\n\n\"Pale Green Ghosts\" was released in March 2013 to critical acclaim. \"Pale Green Ghosts\" was Rough Trade Records Album Of The Year, and number 2 in \"The Guardian's\" Best Album of 2013. A nomination for Best Solo Artist at the Q Awards followed (with David Bowie and Laura Marling among the other nominees). A nomination for Best International Male Solo Artist at the Brit Awards in 2014 followed, and \"Attitude\" named Grant Man of The Year 2014.\n\nIn 2013 Grant put his linguistic skills to effect by translating Ásgeir Trausti's album \"Dýrð í dauðaþögn\". The English version titled \"In the Silence\" was released in October of that year. In 2014 he co-wrote \"No Prejudice\", the Icelandic entry for the Eurovision Song Contest performed by Pollapönk.\n\nIn 2014 Grant guested on the 40th anniversary release of Elton John's \"Goodbye Yellow Brick Road\", covering the song \"Sweet Painted Lady\". Always on the lookout for likely or unlikely collaborations, Grant has been keen to explore his passion for electronic and dance music, guesting on the album \"The Feast of The Broken Heart\", by Hercules & Love Affair and released on Moshi Moshi Records.\n\nIn the first half of 2014, Grant joined British group Elbow on the North American leg of their tour. In October 2014, accompanied by the BBC Philharmonic Orchestra, Grant recorded tracks from his first two albums for a concert on BBC Radio 6 Music arranged by Fiona Brice. This was released as an album: \"John Grant And The BBC Philharmonic Orchestra: Live In Concert\". Grant concluded 2014 with rave reviews following his UK concert hall tour with the Royal Northern Sinfonia. ClashMusic.com wrote that the concert \"could honestly be one of the greatest gigs of all time at London's Royal Festival Hall\". That night, he duetted with Alison Goldfrapp on (the Nancy Sinatra and Lee Hazlewood song) \"Some Velvet Morning\" at the Royal Albert Hall.\n\n2015 saw Grant release his third solo album \"Grey Tickles, Black Pressure\". Recorded in Dallas and produced by John Congleton, it featured guest vocalists Tracey Thorn (Everything But The Girl) and Amanda Palmer (The Dresden Dolls), and former Siouxsie and the Banshees drummer Budgie. Upon its release, the album was hailed by the likes of \"NME\", \"The Guardian\" and \"Mojo\". Before embarking on a worldwide tour, Grant appeared on UK TV show \"Later with Jools Holland\" in early October. Accompanied on stage by a band including several backing singers and special guest drummer Budgie, Grant delivered a show at the Hammersmith Apollo in London, receiving a five-star review in the national press. In July 2015, Grant played Glastonbury and Latitude festivals before embarking on a world tour. The following year, he toured across much of the US and Europe. In October of that year he made a third appearance on the BBC Two show Later... With Jools Holland.\n\nGrant co-wrote and recorded the track \"I Don't Want To Hurt You\" with Robbie Williams which features in Williams' album \"The Heavy Entertainment Show\", released November 2016.\n\nIn 2016, Grant performed a solo show at the Royal Albert Hall, which was met with rave reviews. He was joined on stage by Richard Hawley who performed \"Disappointing\" from \"Grey Tickles, Black Pressure\". Also guesting were Cate Le Bon, who duetted on \"Torn Between Two Lovers\" – a song made famous by Mary MacGregor – and Kylie Minogue in a performance of \"Glacier\". Kylie invited Grant back to the Royal Albert Hall to duet with her on \"Confide In Me\" for A Kylie Christmas in December that year. Two songs from 2013 \"Black Belt\" and \"Pale Green Ghosts\" appeared on Haigh's HBO series \"Looking\". On December 3, Grant was the subject of BBC Radio 4's Reimagining the City, where he took listeners around Reykjavik.\n\nIn 2017, Grant appeared at the Hay Literary Festival in conversation with Cosey Fanni Tutti (Throbbing Gristle/Chris & Cosey), to discuss her autobiography \"Art Sex Music\", which was a \"Sunday Times\", \"Telegraph\" and Rough Trade Records Book of the Year. Grant announced in 2017 that he had signed with publishers Little, Brown and Company to write his autobiography. 2017 also saw Grant curate North Atlantic Flux: Sounds From Smoky Bay, a four-day event celebrating the best in Nordic and Scandinavian culture as part of Hull's year as UK City Of Culture. The festival, a collaboration with Curated Place, went on to win three awards at The Drum UK Event Awards, including the prestigious Cultural Event Of The Year. Highlights of the festival included performances from Susanne Sundfør, GusGus, Tonik Ensemble, Nils Bech, Adelle Stripe, Wrangler and Grant himself, who also gave a two-hour Q&A hosted by writer and poet Adelle Stripe and later described as \"enthralling\". In July, Grant returned to the Royal Albert Hall to contribute to a fund-raising event on behalf of Stonewall, for a conversation with Elizabeth Fraser of the Cocteau Twins: the evening marked the 50th anniversary of the Sexual Offenses Act 1967. That month, Grant also joined a distinguished line up celebrating the music of Scott Walker, as part of the BBC's Late Night Proms. Jules Buckley's Heritage Orchestra joined special guests Grant, Susanne Sundfør, Richard Hawley and Jarvis Cocker to perform a string of Walker's songs. The event was broadcast on BBC Four, BBC Radio 3 and BBC Radio 6 Music. Grant also recorded \"Mountaineers\", a duet with Susanne Sundfør for her album \"Music for People in Trouble\", which was released in August 2017.\n\nHaving toured with Elbow in the US in 2014, Grant teamed up with Guy Garvey to record a duet version of Elbow's \"Kindling (Fickle Flame)\", which was released in September 2017. Grant was a guest vocalist on \"The Great Distraction\", an album by Leeds-based art–electro rock quintet Vessels. The single \"Erase the Tapes\" featuring Grant was released in September 2017.\n\nAs well as recording his fourth solo album, due for release in Autumn 2018, Grant has been working on a side project – Creep Show; a collaboration with Wrangler's Stephen Mallinder, Phil Winter and Benge. Described as experimental pop and surreal funk, the first single \"Modern Parenting\" from the album \"Mr Dynamite\" was released on January 30, the full album was released on March 16th 2018.\n\nOn July 9, 2018, Grant released a short teaser video on social media. The following day, together with the announcement of his fourth album, \"Love Is Magic\", a song of the same name, taken from the new album, was released as a digital download and lyric video. The album \"Love Is Magic\" was released in October with favorable reviews. In a 5 out of 5 star review, \"The Independent\" described the record as \"sardonic wit and heart-stopping drops of sheer honesty\", and \"NME\" hailed it as an album of \"arch brilliance that also makes room for quiet introspection\". Grant then went on tour in the UK with a full band including Budgie on drums, before embarking on a world tour from November.\n\nWith The Czars\n\nSolo\n\nWith The Czars\nSolo\nAs featured artist\n\n"}
{"id": "31602219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31602219", "title": "John Hasted", "text": "John Hasted\n\nJohn Barrett Hasted (February 17, 1921 – May 4, 2002) was a British physicist and folk musician.\n\nHasted was born in Woodbridge, Suffolk. He attended Winchester College and won a choral scholarship to New College, Oxford, where he read chemistry and later focused on atomic physics.\n\nFrom 1968 until his retirement he was head of experimental physics at Birkbeck College, London. He was the author of \"Physics Of Atomic Collisions\" (1964), \"Aqueous Dielectrics\" (1973), \"The Metal Benders\" (1981), and his autobiography, \"Alternative Memoirs\" (1992).\n\nHe was also active as a folk singer, folk club organiser, and leading light of the Second British Folk Revival.\n\nHasted was a believer in psychokinesis. He endorsed the spoon bending feats of Uri Geller and other alleged psychics. A 1987 report by the United States National Academy of Sciences investigated the paranormal claims of Hasted and chided him for his naiveté for playing into the hands of anyone intending on deceiving him. The report wrote that the conditions of his 1974 tests with Geller did not rule out the possibility of trickery.\n\nHasted believed that children could paranormally bend paperclips inside a glass sphere, provided the sphere had a hole in it and were allowed to take the sphere into a room unobserved. Martin Gardner wrote Hasted was incapable of devising simple controls such as videotaping the children secretly. Stephen North, a British psychic, was tested by Hasted in the late 1970s. Hasted claimed North had the psychokinetic ability to bend spoons and teleport objects in and out of sealed containers. North was tested in Grenoble on 19 December 1977 in scientific conditions and the results were negative. According to James Randi, during a test at Birkbeck College North was observed to have bent a metal sample with his bare hands. Randi wrote \"I find it unfortunate that [Hasted] never had an epiphany in which he was able to recognize just how thoughtless, cruel, and predatory were the acts perpetrated on him by fakers who took advantage of his naivety and trust.\"\n\nThe physicist John Taylor gave \"The Metal Benders\" (1981) a negative review. According to Taylor the metal bending tests had poor controls and Hasted was not in the same room as the subjects for some of the tests. Taylor wrote \"not only are the tests not watertight but the conjectured theory is monumentally silly.\" Hasted suggested in the book that paranormal effects arise through telepathy from the individual in a parallel universe.\n\n"}
{"id": "52444555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52444555", "title": "João Maria (monk)", "text": "João Maria (monk)\n\nJoão Maria was the name given to three lay monks who were in turn active in southern Brazil during the second half of the 19th century and early 20th century, although two originally had other names and the third was only called João Maria after his death. They were all ascetic wanderers and preachers who healed with herbs. The third led a peasant revolt in 1912. Their followers think they were the same person in different incarnations, a saint. The Monge State Park maintains a cave where the first monk once lived, visited by thousands of pilgrims annually.\n\nThe first João Maria was born in Piemont, Italy.\nAs a young man he entered the seminary in Rome, but left before being ordained priest.\nHe wandered in Europe, then came to South America where he travelled in Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and finally Brazil.\nThere are records from 1844 of João Maria going from Pará to Rio de Janeiro, where he became famous as a healer and counselor.\nHe moved to Sorocaba and continued to practice medicine and give advice.\n\nJoão Maria left the city of São Paulo and disappeared for a while before showing up in Rio Grande do Sul.\nThousands of people came to him at Cerro Campestre, in Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul, drawn by word of the miraculous power of his waters.\nThe authorities of Rio Grande do Sul analyzed the water and found it was potable but no different from any other water.\nHe then continued through Santa Catarina and Paraná, where he lived in a cave near Lapa in 1847.\nThere he performed marriages, baptisms, healings and gave blessings to the local people.\nJoão Maria was not a revolutionary, but tried to improve the condition of the peasants.\nHe organized processions, built chapels, blessed cattle and baptized children.\nHe cared for the sick, and his herbal teas became famous.\n\nIn 1848 João Maria was deported to Santa Catarina, then to Rio de Janeiro, where he was lost from sight for a while.\nHe reappeared in Buenos Aires in 1853 and walked through Bolivia and all of south and central America until 1861, arriving in New Mexico in the United States in 1862, where he lived in the mountains.\nHe was assassinated there on 17 April 1869 at the age of 69.\nHis tomb may be seen in New Mexico.\n\nIn 1890 João Maria de Jesus began to travel in southern Brazil.\nHis appearance, with a long white beard, and way of life were similar to Agostini.\nJoão Maria de Jesus was famous as a healer, and his medicine was thought to be miraculous.\nIt was said he could cure a person simply by praying for their health and prescribing a tea from a common herb called \"monk's broom\".\nHe was quoted as saying , \"He who does not know how to read the book of nature is illiterate in God's eyes.\"\nHis devotees thought that all objects or places that he touched became sacred, and would provide the hermit's blessings after he had disappeared.\n\nDuring the Federalist Revolution of 1893–95 he attended wounded rebels.\nHis teachings were prophetic and apocalyptic.\nHe said God would punish mankind with plagues of insects and bloody wars.\nHe thought the First Brazilian Republic of 1889 was the work of the devil, and defended restoration of the monarchy as the \"order of God\".\nHe may have died in 1908 in hospital in Ponta Grossa, Paraná, or may be buried in Lagoa Vermelha, Rio Grande do Sul, but his devotees think he is still living in the Morro Taió, a hill in Santa Catarina.\n\nJosé Maria de Santo Agostinho was formerly the soldier Miguel Lucena de Boaventura.\nHe settled in Taquaraçu, Santa Catarina, where he gained a reputation for healing powers.\nHe established a \"people's pharmacy\" where he would provide herbs, seeds and roots as well as prayers.\nJosé Maria claimed to be the first João Maria's brother.\nHe was the religious leader of the rebels during the \"Contestado War\" of 1912–16, in which small farmers and settlers in Paraná and Santa Catarina who had been expelled from their lands fought against the large capitalist landowners and companies.\nHe organized the dispossessed peasants and sharecroppers from his base at the Fazenda do Irani.\n\nThe state government's security regiment marched to Taquaruçu to disperse his followers.\nIn a clash on 22 October 1912 the troops were defeated, but José Maria, who was leading the rebels, was killed.\nIn their religious excitement the rebels sanctified José Maria and began to call him São João Maria, thinking he would return in a few months with an enchanted army commanded by Saint Sebastian.\n\nThe people of the region began to conflate José Maria and the João Marias, uniting them as one person.\nA socio-religious movement led by André Ferreira França began in Soledade, Rio Grande do Sul, in 1935.\nThe group was persecuted and André França decided to withdraw, but was shot in a clash with the city's military brigade.\n\nThere is a large literature about the monks called João Maria, but the devout population have little interest in their historicity and are much more concerned with the sacred characteristics attributed to them.\nThere are people today who think that João Maria, now more than 200 years old, still wanders in the region and works his miracles.\nThere are many places in the center and east of Paraná and Santa Catarina, the south of São Paulo and the north of Rio Grande do Sul, where a small altar or cross marks a place where one of the \"João Marias\" would have passed.\n\nThe various wanderers recognized as the monk or prophet João Maria all have strong similarities.\nThey are pilgrims, without home or family. They have withdrawn from the pleasures of the world to do penance by serving God.\nThey preach the Apocalypse, when God will punish all sinners.\nThey have the miraculous power of healing, and they are immortal.\n\nThe Monge State Park was created in Lapa in 1960.\nThe main attraction is the monk's cave, a place of religious pilgrimage for thousands of faithful. \nIt includes a source of water that it considered to be miraculous.\nIn 2015 Paraná Turismo was considering definition of a tourist circuit to visit the \"olhos d'água\" in places where the monk was present.\nAs of December 2015 the secretariat of tourism had identified 38 municipalities where the monk was present.\n\n"}
{"id": "3842872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842872", "title": "Lalitavistara Sūtra", "text": "Lalitavistara Sūtra\n\nThe Lalitavistara Sūtra is a Mahayana Buddhist sutra that tells the story of Gautama Buddha from the time of his descent from Tushita until his first sermon in the Deer Park near Varanasi. The term \"Lalitavistara\" has been translated \"The Play in Full\" or \"Extensive Play,\" referring to the Mahayana view that the Buddha’s last incarnation was a \"display\" or \"performance\" given for the benefit of the beings in this world.\n\nThe sutra consists of twenty-seven chapters:\n\nThe story ends at the very moment when the Buddha has finally manifested all the qualities of awakening and is fully equipped to influence the world, as he did over the next forty-five years by continuously teaching the Dharma and establishing his community of followers.\n\nThe Borobudur reliefs contain a series of panels depicting the life of the Buddha as described in the \"Lalitavistara Sutra\". In these reliefs, the story starts from the glorious descent of the Buddha from the Tushita heaven, and ends with his first sermon in the Deer Park.\n\nAs an example of how widely the sutra was disseminated, the \"Lalitavistara Sutra\" was known to the Mantranaya (Vajrayana) practitioners of Borobudur, who had the text illustrated by stonemasons.\n\nIn the early 20th century, P. L. Vaidya believed that the finished Sanskrit text dated to the 3rd century A.D.\n\nThe text is also said to be a compilation of various works by no single author and includes materials from the Sarvastivada and the Mahayana traditions.\n\nConcerning the origins of the text, the Dharmachakra Translation Committee states:\n\n\nFoucaux, Édouard. \"Le Lalitavistara : l’histoire traditionnelle de la vie du Bouddha Çakyamuni\". Les Classiques du bouddhisme mahāyāna, Musée National des Arts Asiatiques Guimet, vol. 19. Paris: Ernest Leroux, 1892.\n\nIn the \"Lalitavistara\", the Buddha explains to a mathematician named Arjuna the system of numerals in multiples of 100, starting from a koti (in later literature 10^7 but this is uncertain) to a tallakshana (10^53 then).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26016735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26016735", "title": "List of Arabs", "text": "List of Arabs\n\nThis is a list of notable Arabic-speaking people figures.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1263132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1263132", "title": "List of Haitians", "text": "List of Haitians\n\nThis is a list of Haitians, born in Haiti or possessing Haitian citizenship, notable in Haiti and abroad. Due to Haitian nationality laws, dual citizenship is now permitted by the Constitution of Haiti, therefore people of Haitian ancestry born outside of the country are not included in this list, unless they have renounced their foreign citizenship or have resided extensively in Haiti and made significant contributions to Haitian government or society. The list includes both native-born and naturalized Haitians, as well as permanent foreign residents who have been recognized internationally for artistic, cultural, economic, historical, criminal, or political reasons, among others. If not indicated here, their birth in Haiti and notability are mentioned in their main article. This list does not include fictional characters or Haitian associations and organizations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "669161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=669161", "title": "List of Naval Ministers of France", "text": "List of Naval Ministers of France\n\nOne of France's Secretaries of State under the ancien régime was entrusted with control of the French Navy (Secretary of State of the Navy (France). In 1791, this title was changed to Minister of the Navy. Before January 1893, this position also had responsibility for France's colonies, and was usually known as Minister of the Navy and Colonies. In 1947 the naval ministry was absorbed into the Ministry of Defence and reports to the Prime Minister of France and the President of the French Republic at the Elysee Palace.\n\nThe two French royal fleets (the Ponant fleet and Levant fleet) were put under the control of Colbert from 1662, whilst he was \"intendant des finances\" and \"minister of state\" – but not \"secretary of state\" : he only became secretary of state in 1669 after having bought his way into the post. From then on, right up to the French Revolution, a secretary of state had responsibility for the fleet.\n\nThe secretary of state was responsible for the administration of both the navy (the \"marine royale\") and civilian (merchant marine) fleets, and for all France's ports, arsenals, consulates, and colonies, as well as the guardianship for all her commercial companies.\n\nTo his two original offices (the bureau du Ponant and bureau du Levant) other services were added over time:\n\n\nThese different offices and departments were regrouped into four super-departments by marshal de Castries in 1786.\n"}
{"id": "2435505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2435505", "title": "List of Zimbabweans", "text": "List of Zimbabweans\n\nThis is a list of notable Zimbabweans. This list includes people born in Zimbabwe, notably of Zimbabwean descent, or otherwise strongly associated to Zimbabwe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25757046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25757046", "title": "List of covers of Time magazine (1930s)", "text": "List of covers of Time magazine (1930s)\n\nThis is a list of people appearing on the cover of \"Time\" magazine in the 1930s. \"Time\" was first published in 1923. As \"Time\" became established as one of the United States' leading newsmagazines, an appearance on the cover of \"Time\" became an indicator of a person's notability, fame or notoriety. Such features were accompanied by articles about the person.\n\nFor other decades, see Lists of people on the cover of \"Time\" magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "11400861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11400861", "title": "List of poliomyelitis survivors", "text": "List of poliomyelitis survivors\n\nThis is a list of notable people who have survived paralytic poliomyelitis. Poliomyelitis (often simply called polio) is an acute viral infection that involves the gastrointestinal tract and occasionally the central nervous system. Poliovirus is acquired by faecal-oral or oral transmission. Prior to the introduction of a vaccine in 1955, infection was common, with epidemics during the summer and autumn of temperate countries. An eradication programme has reduced the number of reported polio cases worldwide by more than 99% since the mid-1980s. Most infections are asymptomatic; a small number cause a minor illness that is indistinguishable from many other viral illnesses; less than 1% result in acute flaccid paralysis. This list only includes notable persons who had the paralytic form of polio. The extent of paralysis varies from part of a limb to quadriplegia and respiratory failure. The latter was often treated with an iron lung until, it was hoped, the patient recovered. Around 30–40 years after contracting paralytic poliomyelitis, about 25–40% of cases lead to post-polio syndrome. Symptoms include muscle pain, further weakening of muscles and paralysis.\n\nSurviving paralytic polio can be a life-changing experience. Individuals may be permanently physically disabled to varying degrees. Others remember the fear and isolation. Some continue to campaign for polio eradication or disability rights.\n\nThis categorised alphabetical list contains only those people with a firm and uncontested diagnosis made while still alive.\n\nThe following people were not diagnosed with polio during their lifetime. A retrospective diagnosis is speculative and can never be certain.\n\nThe following people may have had polio, but there is disagreement over it.\n\nThe following people are often reported to have had polio, but their own statements or other evidence contradict this.\n"}
{"id": "52979802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52979802", "title": "Louise Ebrel", "text": "Louise Ebrel\n\nLouise Ebrel, born 27 July 1932 at Treffrin in the Côtes-du-Nord (the present Côtes d'Armor), is a Breton singer whose parents Eugénie Goadec (one of the Goadec Sisters) and Job Ebrel were themselves singers. Her repertoire is composed of traditional Breton songs, either for dancing (\"kan ha diskan\") or for listening (\"gwerz\").\n\nFrom 1991 to 2006 she accompanied the singer-poet Denez Prigent in concerts, both as a duo and with his musical group. Since 1996 she has frequently sung with Ifig Flatrès in \"kan ha diskan\" at festoù noz. Since 2006 she has performed on Breton stages with the punk group Les Ramoneurs de menhirs and the rockers of Red Cardell as well as the ensemble The Celtic Social Club founded in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "42053868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42053868", "title": "Marcelo Costa de Andrade", "text": "Marcelo Costa de Andrade\n\nMarcelo Costa de Andrade (born January 2, 1967), a.k.a. \"The Vampire of Niterói\", is a Brazilian serial killer convicted of raping and killing 14 boys.\n\nMarcelo Costa de Andrade was born on January 2, 1967 in Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil and grew up in the Rocinha favela. He was beaten and sexually abused regularly by the age of ten and began to prostitute himself at the age of fourteen. He was sent to a reform school but later escaped. At 16, Andrade began a relationship with an older man and tried to rape his ten-year-old brother at 17. At 23, he broke up with his lover and moved back in with his family. He found a low-paying job and began to attend the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God.\n\nFrom April to December 1991, Andrade raped and killed 14 young boys aged 6 to 13. He would lure the boys to secluded spots and rape them, then strangle or beat them to death. He had sex with the corpses and decapitated one of his victims. He believed that doing so would send them to heaven. He also drank some of the victims' blood to \"become as beautiful as them\".\n\nIn December 1991, Andrade encountered ten-year-old Altair Abreu and his six-year-old brother Ivan. They were offered $20 to follow him to a church where he was going to light candles. Andrade then strangled Ivan to death and told Altair that he loved him and had sent Ivan to heaven. Andrade asked Altair to spend the night with him and Altair escaped the next morning after Andrade was going to take him to work with him.\n\nAndrade was arrested on December 18, 1991, and declared insane on April 26, 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "44748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44748", "title": "Mel Blanc", "text": "Mel Blanc\n\nMelvin Jerome Blanc (May 30, 1908 – July 10, 1989) was an American voice actor, comedian, singer, and radio personality. After beginning his over 60-year career performing in radio, he became known for his work in animation as the voices of Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Porky Pig, Tweety Bird, Sylvester the Cat, Yosemite Sam, Foghorn Leghorn, Marvin the Martian, Pepé Le Pew, Speedy Gonzales, Wile E. Coyote, Road Runner, the Tasmanian Devil and many of the other characters from the \"Looney Tunes\" and \"Merrie Melodies\" theatrical cartoons during the golden age of American animation. He voiced all of the major male Warner Bros. cartoon characters except for Elmer Fudd, whose voice was provided by fellow radio personality Arthur Q. Bryan, although Blanc later voiced Fudd as well after Bryan's death.\n\nHe later voiced characters for Hanna-Barbera's television cartoons, including Barney Rubble on \"The Flintstones\" and Mr. Spacely on \"The Jetsons\". Blanc was also the original voice of Woody Woodpecker for Universal Pictures and provided vocal effects for the \"Tom and Jerry\" cartoons directed by Chuck Jones for MGM, replacing William Hanna. During the golden age of radio, Blanc also frequently performed on the programs of famous comedians from the era, including Jack Benny, Abbott and Costello, Burns and Allen and Judy Canova.\n\nHaving earned the nickname The Man of a Thousand Voices, Blanc is regarded as one of the most influential people in the voice acting industry.\n\nBlanc was born in San Francisco, California to Russian-Jewish parents Frederick and Eva Blank, the younger of two children. He grew up in the Western Addition neighborhood in San Francisco, and later in Portland, Oregon, where he attended Lincoln High School. Growing up, he had a fondness for voices and dialect which he began voicing at the age of 10. He claimed that he changed the spelling of his name when he was 16, from \"Blank\" to \"Blanc\", because a teacher told him that he would amount to nothing and be like his name, a \"blank\". Blanc joined the Order of DeMolay as a young man, and was eventually inducted into its Hall of Fame. After graduating from high school in 1927, he split his time between leading an orchestra, becoming the youngest conductor in the country at the age of 19, and performing \"shtick\" in vaudeville shows around Washington, Oregon, and northern California.\n\nBlanc began his radio career at the age of 19 in 1927, when he made his acting debut on the KGW program \"The Hoot Owls\", where his ability to provide voices for multiple characters first attracted attention. He moved to Los Angeles in 1932, where he met Estelle Rosenbaum (1909–2003), whom he married a year later, before returning to Portland. He moved to KEX in 1933 to produce and co-host his \"Cobweb and Nuts\" show with his wife Estelle, which debuted on June 15. The program played Monday through Saturday from 11:00 pm to midnight, and by the time the show ended two years later, it appeared from 10:30 pm to 11:00 pm.\n\nWith his wife's encouragement, Blanc returned to Los Angeles and joined Warner Bros.–owned KFWB in Hollywood in 1935. He joined \"The Johnny Murray Show\", but the following year switched to CBS Radio and \"The Joe Penner Show\".\n\nBlanc was a regular on the NBC Red Network show \"The Jack Benny Program\" in various roles, including voicing Benny's Maxwell automobile (in desperate need of a tune-up), violin teacher Professor LeBlanc, Polly the Parrot, Benny's pet polar bear Carmichael, the tormented department store clerk, and the train announcer. The first role came from a mishap when the recording of the automobile's sounds failed to play on cue, prompting Blanc to take the microphone and improvise the sounds himself. The audience reacted so positively that Benny decided to dispense with the recording altogether and have Blanc continue in that role. One of Blanc's most memorable characters from Benny's radio (and later TV) programs was \"Sy, the Little Mexican\", who spoke one word at a time. The famous \"Sí ... Sy ... Sue ... sew\" routine was so effective that no matter how many times it was performed, the laughter was always there, thanks to the comedic timing of Blanc and Benny. Blanc continued to work with him on radio until the series ended in 1955 and followed the program into television from Benny's 1950 debut episode through guest spots on NBC specials in the 1970s. They last appeared together on a Johnny Carson \"Tonight Show\" in January 1974. A few months later, Blanc spoke highly of Benny on a Tom Snyder \"Tomorrow\" show special aired the night of the comedian's death.\n\nBy 1946, Blanc appeared on over 15 radio programs in supporting roles. His success on \"The Jack Benny Program\" led to his own radio show on the CBS Radio Network, \"The Mel Blanc Show\", which ran from September 3, 1946, to June 24, 1947. Blanc played himself as the hapless owner of a fix-it shop, as well as his young cousin Zookie.\n\nBlanc also appeared on such other national radio programs as \"The Abbott and Costello Show\", the Happy Postman on \"Burns and Allen\", and as August Moon on \"Point Sublime\". During World War II, he appeared as Private Sad Sack on various radio shows, including \"G.I. Journal\". Blanc recorded a song titled \"Big Bear Lake\".\n\nIn December 1936, Mel Blanc joined , which was producing theatrical cartoon shorts for Warner Bros. After sound man Treg Brown was put in charge of cartoon voices, and Carl Stalling became music director, Brown introduced Blanc to animation directors Tex Avery, Bob Clampett, Friz Freleng, and Frank Tashlin, who loved his voices. The first cartoon Blanc worked on was \"Picador Porky\" (1937) as the voice of a drunken bull. He soon after received his first starring role when he replaced Joe Dougherty as Porky Pig's voice in \"Porky's Duck Hunt\", which marked the debut of Daffy Duck, also voiced by Blanc.\n\nFollowing this, Blanc became a very prominent vocal artist for Warner Bros., voicing a wide variety of the \"Looney Tunes\" characters. Bugs Bunny, whom Blanc made his debut as in \"A Wild Hare\" (1940), was known for eating carrots frequently (especially while saying his catchphrase \"Eh, what's up, doc?\"). To follow this sound with the animated voice, Blanc would bite into a carrot and then quickly spit into a spittoon. One oft-repeated story is that Blanc was allergic to carrots, which Blanc denied.\n\nIn Disney's \"Pinocchio\", Blanc was hired to perform the voice of Gideon the Cat. However, Gideon eventually was decided to be a mute character (similar to Dopey from \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\"), so all of Blanc's recorded dialogue was deleted except for a solitary hiccup, which was heard three times in the finished film.\n\nBlanc also originated the voice and laugh of Woody Woodpecker for the theatrical cartoons produced by Walter Lantz for Universal Pictures, but stopped voicing Woody after the character's first three shorts when he was signed to an exclusive contract with Warner Bros. (his laugh was used in the cartoons until 1951, while his \"Guess who!?\" signature line was used until the end of the series in 1972).\n\nDuring World War II, Blanc served as the voice of the hapless Private Snafu in various war-themed animated shorts.\n\nThroughout his career, Blanc, aware of his talents, protected the rights to his voice characterizations contractually and legally. He, and later his estate, never hesitated taking civil action when those rights were violated. Voice actors at the time rarely received screen credits, but Blanc was an exception; by 1944, his contract with Warner Bros. stipulated a credit reading \"Voice characterization(s) by Mel Blanc.\" According to his autobiography, Blanc asked for and received this screen credit from studio boss Leon Schlesinger after he was denied a salary raise. Initially, Blanc's screen credit was limited only to cartoons where he voiced Bugs Bunny, with any other shorts he worked on being uncredited. In the middle of 1945, the contract was amended to include a screen credit for cartoons featuring Porky Pig and/or Daffy Duck as well, save for any shorts made before that amendment occurred (\"Book Revue\" and \"Baby Bottleneck\" are examples, despite being released after the fact). But by the end of 1946, Blanc began receiving a screen credit in any subsequent Warner Bros. cartoon for which he provided voices.\n\nIn 1960, after the expiration of his exclusive contract with Warner Bros., Blanc continued working for WB, but also began providing voices for the TV cartoons produced by Hanna-Barbera; his most famous roles during this time were Barney Rubble of \"The Flintstones\" and Cosmo Spacely of \"The Jetsons\". His other voice roles for Hanna-Barbera included Dino the Dinosaur, Secret Squirrel, Speed Buggy, and Captain Caveman, as well as voices for \"Wally Gator\" and \"The Perils of Penelope Pitstop.\"\n\nBlanc also worked with former \"Looney Tunes\" director Chuck Jones, who by this time was directing shorts with his own company Sib Tower 12 (later MGM Animation/Visual Arts); doing vocal effects for the \"Tom and Jerry\" series from 1963 to 1967. Blanc was the first voice of Toucan Sam in Froot Loops commercials.\n\nBlanc reprised some of his Warner Bros. characters when the studio contracted him to make new theatrical cartoons in the mid-to-late 1960s. For these, Blanc voiced Daffy Duck and Speedy Gonzales, the characters who received the most frequent use in these shorts (later, newly introduced characters such as Cool Cat and Merlin the Magic Mouse were voiced by Larry Storch). Blanc also continued to voice the \"Looney Tunes\" for the bridging sequences of \"The Bugs Bunny Show\", as well as in numerous animated advertisements and several compilation features, such as \"The Bugs Bunny/Road Runner Movie\" (1979). He also voiced Granny in \"Bugs Bunny’s High-Fructose Christmas Record\" (in place of June Foray).\n\nOn January 24, 1961, Blanc was involved in a near-fatal car accident. He was driving alone when his sports car collided head-on with a car driven by 18-year-old college student Arthur Rolston on Sunset Boulevard. Rolston suffered minor injuries, but Blanc was rushed to the UCLA Medical Center with a triple skull fracture that left him in a coma for two weeks, along with sustaining fractures to both legs and the pelvis. About two weeks after the accident, one of Blanc's neurologists tried a different approach. Blanc was asked, \"How are you feeling today, Bugs Bunny?\" After a slight pause, Blanc answered, in a weak voice, \"Eh... just fine, Doc. How are you?\" The doctor then asked Tweety if he was there, too. \"I tawt I taw a puddy tat,\" was the reply. Blanc returned home on March 17. Four days later, Blanc filed a US$500,000 lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles. His accident, one of 26 in the preceding two years at the intersection known as Dead Man's Curve, resulted in the city funding the restructuring of curves at the location.\n\nYears later, Blanc revealed that during his recovery, his son Noel \"ghosted\" several Warner Bros. cartoons' voice tracks for him. Warner Bros. had also asked Stan Freberg to provide the voice for Bugs Bunny, but Freberg declined, out of respect for Blanc. At the time of the accident, Blanc was also serving as the voice of Barney Rubble in \"The Flintstones\". His absence from the show was relatively brief; Daws Butler provided the voice of Barney for a few episodes, after which the show's producers set up recording equipment in Blanc's hospital room and later at his home to allow him to work from there. Some of the recordings were made while he was in full-body cast as he lay flat on his back with the other \"Flintstones\" co-stars gathered around him. He also returned to \"The Jack Benny Program\" to film the program's 1961 Christmas show, moving around by crutches and a wheelchair.\n\nIn the 1970s, Blanc gave a series of college lectures across the US and appeared in commercials for American Express. Mel’s production company, Blanc Communications Corporation, collaborated on a special with the Boston-based Shriners Burns Institute called \"Ounce of Prevention,\" which became a 30-minute TV special.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, Blanc performed his Looney Tunes characters for bridging sequences in various compilation films of Golden-Age-era Warner Bros. cartoons, such as \"The Looney Looney Looney Bugs Bunny Movie\", \"\", \"Daffy Duck's Fantastic Island\", and \"Daffy Duck's Quackbusters\". His final performance of his \"Looney Tunes\" roles was in \"Bugs Bunny's Wild World of Sports\" (1989). After spending most of two seasons voicing the diminutive robot Twiki in \"Buck Rogers in the 25th Century,\" Blanc's last original character was Heathcliff, in the early 1980s.\n\nIn the 1983 live-action film \"Strange Brew\", Blanc voiced the father of Bob and Doug MacKenzie, at the request of comedian Rick Moranis.\n\nIn the 1988 live-action/animated movie \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit,\" Blanc reprised several of his classic \"Looney Tunes\" roles (Bugs, Daffy, Porky, Tweety, and Sylvester), but left Yosemite Sam to Joe Alaskey (who later became one of Blanc's regular replacements until his death in 2016). The film was one of the few Disney projects Blanc was involved in. Blanc died just a year after the film's release. His final recording session was for \"\" (1990).\n\nIn 1962, Mel and his son Noel formed Blanc Communications Corporation, a media company which remains in operation. Mel and his son Noel produced over 5000 public service announcements and commercials, appearing with Kirk Douglas, Lucille Ball, Vincent Price, Phyllis Diller, Liberace, and The Who.\n\nBlanc began smoking cigarettes when he was nine years old. He continued his pack-a-day habit until he was diagnosed with emphysema, which pushed him to quit at age 77. On May 19, 1989, Blanc was checked into Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles by his family when they noticed he had a bad cough while shooting a commercial; he was originally expected to recover. Blanc's health then took a turn for the worse and doctors found that he had advanced coronary artery disease. He died on July 10 at Cedars-Sinai, at the age of 81. He is interred in Hollywood Forever Cemetery in Hollywood. Blanc's will stated his desire to have the inscription on his gravestone read, \"THAT'S ALL FOLKS,\" the phrase that was the hallmark of Blanc's character, Porky Pig.\n\nBlanc is regarded as the most prolific voice actor in the history of the industry. He was the first voice actor to receive on-screen credit.\n\nBlanc's death was considered a significant loss to the cartoon industry because of his skill, expressive range, and sheer volume of continuing characters he portrayed, which are currently taken up by several other voice talents. Indeed, as movie critic Leonard Maltin once pointed out, \"It is astounding to realize that Tweety Bird and Yosemite Sam are the same man!\"\n\nAccording to Blanc, Sylvester the Cat was the easiest character to voice because \"It's just my normal speaking voice with a spray at the end.\" Yosemite Sam was the hardest because of his loudness and raspiness.\n\nA doctor who once examined Blanc's throat found that he possessed unusually thick, powerful vocal cords that gave him an exceptional range. The doctor reported that they rivaled those of opera singer Enrico Caruso.\n\nAfter his death, Blanc's voice continued to be heard in newly released productions, such as recordings of Dino the Dinosaur in the live-action films \"The Flintstones\" (1994) and \"The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas\" (2000). Similarly, recordings of Blanc as Jack Benny's Maxwell were featured in \"\" (2003). More recently, archive recordings of Blanc have been featured in new CGI-animated \"Looney Tunes\" theatrical shorts; \"I Tawt I Taw a Puddy Tat\" (shown with \"Happy Feet Two\") and \"Daffy's Rhapsody\" (shown with \"\").\n\nBlanc trained his son Noel in the field of voice characterization. Although the younger Blanc has performed his father's characters (particularly Porky Pig) on some programs, he has chosen not to become a full-time voice artist.\n\nFor his contributions to the radio industry, Mel Blanc has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6385 Hollywood Boulevard. His character Bugs Bunny also has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame (the only others to have received this honor are Walt Disney as both himself and Mickey Mouse, Jim Henson as both himself and Kermit the Frog, and Mike Myers as both himself and Shrek).\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "58518229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58518229", "title": "Nakunte Diarra", "text": "Nakunte Diarra\n\nNakunte Diarra (born c. 1941) is a Malian textile artist, a creator of \"bògòlanfini\".\n\nA member of the Bamana people, Diarra learned the basics of creating \"bògòlanfini\" from her mother when she was four years old. She has been based in Kolokani for much of her career, but has traveled widely to give workshops and demonstrations of her technique, including spending two weeks at the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in 2003.In 1993 30 of her works were exhibited at the Fashion Institute of Technology. Her art was the subject of an article, \"Nakunte Diarra: Bogolanfini Artist of the Bélédougou\", published in the journal \"African Arts\" in 1994, and of a DVD produced in 2005. Two pieces by Diarra were commissioned for the collection of the Indiana University Art Museum, while other cloths are owned by the National Museum of African Art, the National Museum of Natural History, and the National Museum of Mali.\n"}
{"id": "86589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86589", "title": "Olwen", "text": "Olwen\n\nIn Welsh mythology, Olwen (or Olwyn) is the daughter of the giant Ysbaddaden and cousin of Goreu. She is the heroine of the story \"Culhwch and Olwen\" in the Mabinogion. Her father is fated to die if she ever marries, so when Culhwch (sometimes spelled as Kilhwch) comes to court her, he is given a series of immensely difficult tasks which he must complete before he can win her hand. With the help of his cousin King Arthur, Culhwch succeeds and the giant dies, allowing Olwen to marry her suitor.\n\nThe name \"Olwen\" reappears in the non-Arthurian folktale \"Einion and Olwen\", about a sheep herder who travels to the Otherworld to marry Olwen; they later have a son named Taliesin. The tale was collected at the turn of the 20th century but is related to \"Culhwch and Olwen\".\n\nThe meaning of the name Olwen is \"white footprint\". According to legend, she was so gentle and fragile that white lilies would grow in her footprints. Some authorities consider her to have been originally a solar goddess, based on the etymology of her name and light-related attributes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3084377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3084377", "title": "Paul Janssen", "text": "Paul Janssen\n\nPaul Adriaan Jan, Baron Janssen (12 September 1926, Turnhout – 11 November 2003, Rome) was a Belgian doctor. He was the founder of Janssen Pharmaceutica, a pharmaceutical company with over 20,000 employees.\n\nPaul Janssen was the son of Constant Janssen and Margriet Fleerackers. On 16 April 1957, he married Dora Arts.\n\nHe attended secondary school at the Jesuit St Jozef college in Turnhout, after which he decided to follow in his father's footsteps and become a doctor. During World War II, Janssen studied physics, biology and chemistry at the Facultés universitaires Notre-Dame de la Paix (FUNDP) in Namur. He then studied medicine at the Catholic University of Leuven and the University of Ghent. In 1951, Janssen graduated in medicine from the University of Ghent.\n\nDuring his military service, he worked at the University of Cologne in Germany at the Institute of Pharmacology of J. Schuller, where he worked until 1952. After he returned to Belgium he worked part-time at the Institute of Pharmacology and Therapeutics (University of Ghent) of Professor Corneille Heymans, who had won the Nobel Prize for medicine in 1938. Janssen founded his own research laboratory in 1953, with a loan of 50,000 Belgian francs from his father. In 1953 he also discovered his first drug ambucetamide, an antispasmodic found to be particularly effective for the relief of menstrual pain.\n\nIn 1956, Janssen received his teaching certificate for higher education in pharmacology (the habilitation and the official \"pro venia legendi\" (Latin, \"for permission to lecture\")) with a thesis on \"Compounds of the R 79 type\". He then left the university and in 1956 established the company which would become \"Janssen Pharmaceutica\". On 11 February 1958 he made haloperidol a major breakthrough in the treatment of schizophrenia. Paul Janssen and his team developed the fentanyl family of drugs, and many other anesthesia-related drugs, such as droperidol and etomidate which made a significant contribution to anesthesiology. One of the drugs he developed for the treatment of diarrhea, Diphenoxylate (Lomotil) was used during the Apollo program. In 1985, his company was the first Western pharmaceutical company to set up a pharmaceutical factory in the People's Republic of China (Xi'an). In 1995 he founded the \"Center for Molecular Design\", together with Paul Lewi, where he and his team used a supercomputer to search for candidate molecules to find a treatment for AIDS.\n\nJanssen and the scientists at Janssen Pharmaceutica discovered more than 80 new medicines. Four of his medicines are on the WHO list of essential medicines; this is an absolute world record. The majority of the drugs he and his teams developed were for human medicine and are being used to treat infestations by fungi and worms, mental illnesses, cardiovascular diseases, allergies, and gastrointestinal disorders.\n\nPaul Janssen died in Rome, Italy, in 2003, while attending the celebration of the 400th anniversary of the founding of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, of which he had been a member since 1990. He was survived by his widow, Dora Arts Janssen, two sons, three daughters and 13 grandchildren.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5714136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5714136", "title": "Pierre Taittinger", "text": "Pierre Taittinger\n\nPierre-Charles Taittinger (4 October 1887 – 22 January 1965) was the founder of the Taittinger champagne house and chairman of the municipal council of Paris in 1943–1944 during the German occupation of France, in which position he played a role during the Liberation of Paris.\n\nBorn in Paris, Pierre Taittinger's family were originally from Lorraine and had left the Moselle \"département\" when it had been annexed by the German Empire in 1871 in order to remain French citizens. An officer in the cavalry during the First World War, Taittinger received several citations and was decorated with the \"Légion d'honneur\". In 1919 he was elected deputy of the Charente-Inférieure département.\n\nTaittinger married Gabrielle Guillet (1893–1924) in 1917. In 1925, he married Anne-Marie Mailly (1887–1986). He died in Paris in 1965 and was buried in Reims at the \"cimetière du Nord\" with his third son François (1921–1960) who had run the Taittinger champagne house between 1945 and 1960.\n\nHis son Michel, a French military hero and second lieutenant in the 66th African Artillery Regiment of the French Army, died on 15 June 1940 at the age of 20 in the city of Saint Parres-aux-Tertres, near Troyes in the Champagne region. He had held off for five hours a Panzer division of General von Kleist with his fellow soldiers, many of whom were of Moroccan, Algerian and West African units. Michel had been a student in the French military academy Ecole Polytechnique.\n\nAnother of Taittinger's sons, Jean Taittinger, was deputy mayor of Reims from 1959 to 1977, Secretary of State for Budget from 1971 to 1973 and State Minister of Justice from 1973 to 1974 in the administration of Georges Pompidou.\n\nHe was mayor of Saint-Georges-des-Coteaux, in the same département, from 1919 until 1937, and again from 1953 until his death in 1965. In 1924 he was elected deputy of the 1st arrondissement of Paris, and held this mandate until 1940.\n\nIn 1924, Taittinger founded the \"Jeunesses patriotes\" (Patriotic Youths), a right-wing group, recruited mostly from university students and financed by industrialists. Taittinger took inspiration for the group's creation in the Boulangist \"Ligue des patriotes\". Taittinger was also deeply influenced by the Bonapartist movement, during which he was a member of the French Parliament. In the end of the 1920s, the \"Jeunesses patriotes\" became one of the far-right's major anti-Communist movements, challenging the \"Action française\" and the Croix de Feu under Colonel de Laroque.\n\nIn 1937, he was elected to the municipal council of Paris and to the departmental council of the Seine. In March 1940, he was elevated to the rank of Commander in the Order of the \"Légion d'honneur\". He became president of the municipal council of Paris in May 1943, as the Germans occupied the city, and held this position until the Liberation of Paris in August 1944.\n\nOn August 17, 1944, concerned that explosives were being placed at strategic points around Paris by the Germans, Taittinger met with the German military governor Dietrich von Choltitz. On being told that Choltitz intended to slow up as much as possible the Allied advance, Taittinger, along with the Swedish consul general Raoul Nordling, attempted to persuade Choltitz not to destroy Paris. As the Allies rolled into the Paris Basin, Pierre Taittinger made an incredible change from collaborator to a member of the resistance. After the war, he published a book called \"...et Paris ne fut pas détruit\" (\"...and Paris was not destroyed\") which was awarded a prize by the French Academy. In 1954 he became honorary deputy (a title given to ex-members of the French National Assembly).\n\nTaittinger, who, before the First World War, had run a business involved in the distribution and export of champagne with one of his brothers-in-law, acquired in 1931 the venerable champagne firm of Forest-Fourneaux, founded in 1734 by Jacques Fourneaux and the third oldest champagne house in existence. The next year he bought the Château de la Marquetterie and its champagne estate, near Épernay, which he had first visited during the war while stationed in the area. In the following years, he bought hundreds of acres of vineyards in the finest producing areas of Champagne, taking advantage of the cheap price of land caused by the 1930s economic crisis.\n\nForest-Fourneaux, renamed Ets Taittinger Mailly & Cie, was transformed by Taittinger into a world-famous champagne house, Champagne Taittinger, operating from the cellars of the Saint-Nicaise Abbey in Reims. Pierre Taittinger restored the House of the Counts of Champagne in the center of Reims, damaged by the Germans during the First World War, which had been the residence of the Counts of Champagne during the Middle Ages, now the property of Champagne Taittinger. He bequeathed his estate of La Grainetière, on the Isle of Rhé, to the city of Reims, which has become a summer camp for the children of Reims.\n\n"}
{"id": "19160484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19160484", "title": "Religious views of Samuel Johnson", "text": "Religious views of Samuel Johnson\n\nThe religious views of Samuel Johnson are expressed in both his moralistic writings and his sermons.\n\nSamuel Johnson regarded himself as a moralist during his career between 1748 and 1760. Although Johnson wrote a poem, many essays, and a short novel, all of these works are connected by a common intent and each relates to others. The works during this period cannot be separated without disregarding Johnson's major ideas and themes.\n\nAs David Greene points out, Johnson's moral writings contain no \"predetermined and authorized pattern of 'good behavior,'\" although they do emphasize certain kinds of conduct. To be moral, in Johnson's view, an individual must always be self-aware and self-critical. Johnson respected committed Christians of other denominations than his own High Church Anglicanism. . His aversion to Milton's politics entails no attack Milton's religious beliefs. He defended Thomas Browne by saying, in his \"Life of Browne\":\nMen may differ from each other in many religious opinions, and yet all may retain the essentials of Christianity; men may sometimes eagerly dispute, and yet not differ much from one another: the rigorous prosecutors of error should, therefore, enlighten their zeal with knowledge, and temper their orthodoxy with charity; that charity without which orthodoxy is vain.\nHe attacks other religions or their adherents on the grounds that they betray Christ's teachings. This is not to say that Johnson was passive in his religious observance; instead, he was an 18th-century evangelical, which, as he defines in his \"Dictionary\", means \"Agreeable to gospel; consonant to the Christian law contained in the holy gospel\".\n\n\"The Vanity of Human Wishes\" is a sort of prologue to Johnson's career as a moralist.\n\n\"Rasselas\" is a sort of epilogue to Johnson's career as a moralist.\n\nJohnson's sermons, according to David Greene, are \"a neglected but important and rewarding section of his writings\". They are dry and formally organized because Johnson did not approve of the emotionally charged rhetoric of 17th century preachers at the pulpit. Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion. Sometimes Johnson discussed theological topics like the nature of God or political topics like morality's role in governmental action.\n\nJohnson was a rationalist and believed that rational thought was vital to morality.\n\nIn his review of Soame Jenyns's \"A Free Enquiry into the Nature and Origin of Evil\" and its argument that those \"born to poverty\" should not be educated so they could enjoy the \"opiate of ignorance\", Johnson wrote, \"To entail irreversible poverty upon generation after generation only because the ancestor happened to be poor, is, in itself, cruel, if not unjust\".\n\nWhen Jenyns claimed that madness was a way God ensured that the poor would be content with life, Johnson responded:\nOn the happiness of madmen, as the case is not very frequent, it is not necessary to raise a disquisition, but I cannot forbear to observe that I never yet knew disorders of mind increase felicity; every madman is either arrogant and irascible, or gloomy and suspicious, or possessed by some passion or notion destructive to his quiet. He has always discontent in his look, and malignity in his bosom. And, if we had the power of choice, he would soon repent who should resign his reason to secure his peace.\n\nJohnson responds to Jenyns's final argument, that the ends justify the means when it comes to keeping the poor uneducated, by saying:\nI am always afraid of determining on the side of envy or cruelty. The privileges of education may sometimes be improperly bestowed, but I shall always fear to withhold them lest I should be yielding to the suggestions of pride, while I persuade myself that I am following the maxims of policy; and under the appearance of salutary restraints, should be indulging the lust of dominion, and that malevolence which delights in seeing others depressed.\n\nAt Oxford Johnson gave a toast and said, \"Here's to the next insurrection of the Negroes in the West Indies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "182147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182147", "title": "Sidney Darlington", "text": "Sidney Darlington\n\nSidney Darlington (July 18, 1906 – October 31, 1997) was an electrical engineer and inventor of a transistor configuration in 1953, the Darlington pair. He advanced the state of network theory, developing the insertion-loss synthesis approach, and invented chirp radar, bombsights, and gun and rocket guidance.\n\nDarlington was awarded a B.S. in Physics, Magna Cum Laude, from Harvard in 1928 where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He also received a B.S. in E.E. from MIT in 1929, and a Ph.D. in Physics from Columbia in 1940.\n\nIn 1945, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the United States' highest civilian honor, for his contributions during World War II. He was an elected member of the National Academy of Engineering, which cited his contributions to electrical network theory, radar, and guidance systems. In 1975, he received IEEE's Edison Medal \"For basic contributions to network theory and for important inventions in radar systems and electronic circuits\" and the IEEE Medal of Honor in 1981 \"For fundamental contributions to filtering and signal processing leading to chirp radar\".\n\nHe died at his home in Exeter, New Hampshire, USA, at the age of 91.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4037530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037530", "title": "Suna Kıraç", "text": "Suna Kıraç\n\nSuna Kıraç (born Suna Koç on June 3, 1941) is a Turkish businesswoman and a billionaire.\n\nSuna Koç was born to Vehbi Koç (1901-1996), the wealthiest businessman of Turkey, and his wife Sadberk (1908–1973) on June 3, 1941. She is the vice president of the Koç Holding. She married to İnan Kıraç, then a high-level executive of the Koç Holding. As they were unable to have a baby, they adopted a four-month old baby girl named İpek in their 15th marriage year.\n\nShe experienced the first symptoms of her illness shortly after her father's death and her involvement in the family business. In 1996, she suffered aphonia. The next year, her hands began to fall asleep, and one year later, she began to lisp. She was diagnosed amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a specific disease that causes the death of neurons which control voluntary muscles, in the Houston Methodist Hospital.\n\nKıraç was paralyzed throughout her entire body in 2000. She can not make any movement, walk, or talk, and she communicates only by eye movement. When she wants to express a will, she winks for the right letter on a Turkish alphabet show card.\n\nSuna and Kıraç established a foundation for culture and education. The foundation opened the Pera Museum in 2005, which exhibits three valuable art collections of Kıraç Family.\n\nSuna Kıraç was awarded the State Medal of Distinguished Service by the Turkish Council of Ministers for her contributions to education, health and social services in the country on 23 September 1997. She received the award from President Süleyman Demirel on 27 October 1997.\n\nIn 2008, she was awarded an honorary doctorate degree from the Boğaziçi University for her contribution to education.\n\nIn 1998, she published an autobiography, in which she wrote her life, her marriage, how she adopted her daughter İpek, her professional years, her illness and her dreams.\n\n"}
{"id": "31679715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31679715", "title": "Tecwyn Roberts", "text": "Tecwyn Roberts\n\nTecwyn Roberts (10 October 1925 – 27 December 1988) was a Welsh-born American spaceflight engineer who in the 1960s played important roles in designing the Mission Control Center at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas and creating NASA’s worldwide tracking and communications network.\n\nRoberts served as NASA’s first Flight Dynamics Officer with Project Mercury that put the first American into space. He later joined NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center where he served as Director and Manager of the Goddard Space Flight Center’s global tracking and communications system supporting NASA's manned and unmanned low earth orbiting flight programs.\nRoberts, alternately nicknamed \"Tec\" and \"Tex\", was born 10 October 1925 at Trefnant Bach cottage in Llanddaniel Fab, Anglesey, Wales. He received his early education at \"Ysgol Parc y Bont\", the small local primary school there. He left the school in 1938 after a successful Scholarship Examination and continued his studies at the Beaumaris Grammar School, from which he graduated in 1942. After leaving Beaumaris Grammar School, he began an engineering apprenticeship with the aero- and marine-engineering company Saunders-Roe at Fryars Bay, Llanfaes, Anglesey, some eight miles from Llanddaniel Fab.\n\nAfter serving briefly in the Royal Air Force (RAF), Roberts was released in 1944 and resumed work with Saunders-Roe at their Southampton works, from where he was transferred to the Isle of Wight in 1946. At that time, he also attended the University of Southampton where he obtained a degree in Aeronautical Engineering in 1948 and was awarded the Institute of Mechanical Engineers Special Award. Whilst working for Saunders-Roe on the Isle of Wight, Roberts met Doris Sprake whom he later married.\n\nIn December 1952, Roberts and his wife left England for Canada to take up a position with the aircraft manufacturing company Avro Canada near Toronto. From 1952 to 1959, he was a member of the engineering team that developed the CF-105 Arrow, a highly advanced delta-winged interceptor aircraft. When the Avro Arrow project was suddenly cancelled by the Canadian government on 20 February 1959, many Avro Canada engineers including Roberts followed the lead of Jim Chamberlin and moved to the United States to join NASA's Space Task Group at Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia.\n\nCreated in November 1958, the Space Task Group under the leadership of Robert Gilruth was tasked with superintending America's manned spaceflight program, Project Mercury, having been given the responsibility of placing a man in orbit around the Earth. Of its original 37 engineers, 27 were from Langley Research Center and 10 had been assigned from Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio. In 1959, Gilruth's group was greatly expanded by the addition of the engineers from Canada who had been left without jobs when the Avro Arrow project was cancelled.\n\nRoberts joined NASA in April 1959, one of a group of 25 engineers and technicians hired from Avro Canada by NASA. He was involved immediately in formulating the requirements for the tracking and communications network, and the Mercury Mission Control Center to provide the flight control of the missions.\n\nIn 1960, Roberts became NASA's first Flight Dynamics Officer at the Mercury Control Center, where his tasks centered on controlling the trajectory of the spacecraft and planning adjustments to it.\n\nRoberts may have popularized the use of the phrase \"A-OK\", making those three letters a universal symbol meaning \"in perfect working order.\" The first documented use of the English language phrase \"A-OK\" is contained within a \"memo from Tecwyn Roberts, Flight Dynamics Officer, to Flight Director (entitled \"Report on Test 3805\", dated 2 February 1961) in penciled notes on the countdown of MR-2, dated 31 January 1961\". U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. John \"Shorty\" Powers popularized the expression while NASA's public affairs officer for Project Mercury.\n\nIn 1962, Roberts was appointed head of the Mission Control Center Requirements Branch, as which he played a key role in the design and further development of the Mercury Control Center at Cape Kennedy and also at the subsequent Mission Control Center at the Manned Spacecraft Center (later Johnson Space Center) in Houston, Texas, where NASA's manned spaceflight program had been transferred in 1961. NASA's concept of Mission Control had previously been developed under the leadership of Christopher C. Kraft. When Roberts assumed his new position, Glynn Lunney succeeded him as Flight Dynamics Officer. As head of the Mission Control Center Requirements Branch, he was assigned responsibilities for determination, coordination and implementation of all design requirements for the construction of the new Mission Control Center in Houston. For his accomplishments in that area, Roberts received the NASA Outstanding Achievement Award.\n\nOn 21 May 1962, Roberts was appointed head of Manned Flight Division at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland. At that time, Roberts and his wife also resided in Maryland. Their only child, Michael (born about 1960), attended Spalding High School in Severn, Maryland.\n\nIn July 1964, Roberts became Technical Assistant to the Deputy Assistant Director of Tracking and Data systems at Goddard Space Flight Center, and chief of the Manned Flight Engineering Division. This put Roberts in charge of NASA's Manned Space Flight Network, a set of tracking stations built to support the American space efforts of Mercury, Gemini, Apollo and Skylab. There were two other space communication networks at this time, the Spacecraft Tracking and Data Acquisition Network (STADAN) for tracking unmanned satellites in low Earth orbit, and the Deep Space Network (DSN) for tracking more distant unmanned missions.\nAlso in summer 1964, he was honoured by Gilruth with the NASA Special Service Award for his contribution to the manned space flight program in the area of flight operations. The award was primarily for his determining the technical requirements of the Manned Spaceflight Control Center.\nRoberts became chief of the Manned Flight Support Division at the Goddard Space Flight Center during the Apollo Program in 1965. To support the Apollo program, Goddard commissioned three 85 ft, (26 m) antennas that would be equally spaced around the world. These were in Madrid (Spain), Goldstone in California (USA) and at Honeysuckle Creek in Australia. Roberts was present when the Honeysuckle Creek Tracking Station was opened by Australian Prime Minister Harold Holt on 17 March 1967.\n\nLater in 1967, Roberts became Chief of the Network Engineering Division, which he headed during the first landing on the moon. In 1969, he received the NASA Exceptional Service Medal for his work in support of the Apollo 8 flight. In 1972, Roberts became Director of Networks at the Goddard Space Flight Center, a position he still held by the time of the Apollo–Soyuz Test Project in July 1975. His chief responsibility in this role was to ensure that contact was maintained between the orbiting U.S. and Soviet spacecraft. This was to be his last direct involvement with NASA's manned space flights.\n\nIn 1976, Roberts and Robert S. Cooper, the Director of the Goddard Space Flight Center, were elected Fellows of the American Astronautical Society.\n\nIn 1979, Roberts retired as Director of Networks at Goddard and from NASA and became a consultant to the Bendix Field Engineering Corporation.\n\nOn 26 November 1984, the Goddard Space Center honoured a group of 34 individuals including Roberts with the Robert H. Goddard Award of Merit, the highest level of recognition the Goddard Space Center can bestow on its employees.\n\nFour years later, Tecwyn Roberts died on 27 December 1988, aged 63 years. He was buried at St. Stephens Episcopal Cemetery, Crownsville, Maryland. Inscribed upon his gravestone is \"Tecwyn Roberts, Husband of Doris & father of Michael\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54970791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54970791", "title": "Thomas Fulljames", "text": "Thomas Fulljames\n\nThomas Fulljames (1808-1874) was the county surveyor for Gloucestershire and a leading architect and civil engineer in that county in the first half of the nineteenth century. \n\nHe studied surveying with his uncle Thomas Fulljames (died 1847) and architecture with Thomas Rickman.\nAmong his designs was the Church of St Luke, High Orchard, Gloucester, which opened in 1841 and was demolished in 1934.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44595944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44595944", "title": "Umar Buba Bindir", "text": "Umar Buba Bindir\n\nHe was born on August 11, 1961 in Yola, the capital of Adamawa State, northeastern Nigeria.\nHe obtained a Bachelor of science (B.sc) degree with first class honours in Agricultural Technology from the University of Maiduguri and took the compulsory one year National Youth Service Corps in Benue State, the north central region of Nigeria. He later obtained a Master of science (M.sc) degree in agricultural machinery engineering and a doctorate degree, Ph.D. in agricultural machinery design from Cranfield University.\nHaving completed his doctorate degree, he joined the academic staff of Papua New Guinea University of Technology where he later became head of Agricultural Engineering Department, a position he held from 1992 to 1998. He specialized in Machine Design and Development Engineering. \nHe had served in several institute and government parastatals, including the Appropriate Technology and Community Development Institute in Northern Australia, Family Economic Advancement Programme, FEAP and Director of Sports, Federal Ministry of Sports and Social Development, Nigeria. Specifically, he served as Director of Operations - Family Economic Advancement Programme (FEAP), The Presidency Nigeria from 1998 to 2000; Director of Monitoring and Management Information Services at the National Poverty Eradication Programme (NAPEP) The Presidency Nigeria from 2000 to 2005; Director of Sports - Federal Ministry Sports and Youth Development Nigeria from 2005 to 2006; Director Technology Acquisition and Assessment - Federal Ministry of Science and Technology Nigeria from 2006 to 2009; Director General/CEO National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP) Nigeria from 2009 to 2015 and currently the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Adamawa State of Nigeria from 2015 to date.\nHe is a registered Engineer with the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), a European Engineering Council Chartered Engineer, holds wide range of professional Fellowships and currently serves as a Council member of the Nigerian Academy of Engineering. He is also passionately involved in driving the establishment of Nigeria's Science and Technology Parks programme and pioneered the establishment of Africa's Premier Science and Technology Innovation Corridor (APSTICA) in Abuja. He also pioneered the Technology Story Board project (TSB) and NOTAP-Industry Technology Transfer Fellowship (NITTF) as guided capacity building strategies to evolve highly skilled Science Technology and Innovation (STI) manpower for Nigeria at the primary and tertiary levels.\n\nHe Designed and produced a once-over groundnut combine harvester suitable for Nigerian farmers and animal gears system for processing agricultural commodities in rural area, designed, developed and commercialized a coconut de-husking machine for small coconut producers in Australia/Pacific and Asia, designed and developed solar water desalinating plant for rural areas of the pacific, designed and developed vegetable storage system for rural areas, designed a 16-bird slaughtering kit for small scale poultry processors.\n\n"}
{"id": "341960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341960", "title": "Victor Garber", "text": "Victor Garber\n\nVictor Joseph Garber (born March 16, 1949) is a Canadian-American actor and singer. He is known for playing Jesus in \"Godspell\", Anthony Hope in \"\", John Wilkes Booth in \"Assassins\", Jack Bristow in the television series \"Alias\", Max in \"Lend Me a Tenor\", Thomas Andrews in James Cameron's \"Titanic\", and Ken Taylor, Canadian Ambassador to Iran, in \"Argo\". He was a series regular on \"Legends of Tomorrow\", as Dr. Martin Stein, having previously played the same role in a recurring capacity on \"The Flash\" as well as the web series \"Vixen.\n\nGarber was born in London, Ontario, and is of Russian-Jewish descent. His parents were father Joseph \"Joe\" Garber (died 1995), and mother, Hope Garber (née Bessie Hope Wolf; died 2005), an actress, singer, and the host of \"At Home with Hope Garber\". He has a brother, Nathan, and a sister, Alisa.\n\nGarber began acting at the age of nine, and studied at the University of Toronto's Hart House at age 16.\n\nGarber attended Ryerson Elementary School. He also was enrolled in the children's program of the Grand Theatre; and, at age 16, he was accepted at a six-week summer theatre training program at the University of Toronto taught by Robert Gill.\n\nIn 1967, after a period working as a solo folk singer, he formed a folk group called The Sugar Shoppe with Peter Mann, Laurie Hood and Lee Harris. The group enjoyed moderate success, breaking into the Canadian Top 40 with a version of Bobby Gimby's song \"Canada\" (1967). Three other Sugar Shoppe songs made the lower reaches of the Canadian Top 100 in 1967 and '68, and the band even performed on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" before breaking up.\n\nHe played Jesus in Toronto's 1972 production of \"Godspell\". In 1985 he appeared in \"Noises Off\" at the \nAhmanson Theatre in Los Angeles.\n\nHe appeared on Broadway in the original productions of \"Deathtrap\", \"Sweeney Todd\" and \"Noises Off\" (1983), and in the original Off-Broadway cast of \"Assassins\", as well as the 1990s revival of \"Damn Yankees\". He has been nominated for four Tony Awards and opened the Tony Awards program in 1994 (the year he was nominated for the Tony Award for \"Damn Yankees\"). In 1998, he co-starred on Broadway in the Tony Award–winning play \"Art\" with Alan Alda and Alfred Molina. In 2005, he played the role of Frederic in the Los Angeles Opera production of \"A Little Night Music\". He played Ben in a critically praised Encores! staged concert production of \"Follies\" (2007) opposite Donna Murphy. In mid-2007, he played Garry Essendine in a production of Noël Coward's \"Present Laughter\" at Boston's Huntington Theatre. He reprised the role on Broadway in the Roundabout Theatre production, which opened in January 2010.\n\nIn January 2018, Garber replaced David Hyde Pierce as Horace Vandergelder in the Tony-winning Broadway revival of \"Hello, Dolly!\" at the Shubert Theatre opposite Bernadette Peters. Garber began performances on January 20 prior to the press opening on February 22.\n\nGarber received the 2018 Theatre World John Willis Award for Lifetime Achievement.\n\nHis film work includes James Cameron's \"Titanic\" (1997), in which he essayed a Mid-Ulster accent to play the shipbuilder Thomas Andrews. Other movie appearances include \"Godspell\" (1973) as Jesus (the part he originally played in the 1972 Canadian stage production), \"Sleepless in Seattle\" (1993), \"Annie\" (1999), \"Legally Blonde\" (2001), and \"Tuck Everlasting\" (2002). In 2009, he took on the role of the DC Comics supervillain Sinestro in the direct-to-video animated film \"\". The same year, Garber played a Klingon interrogator in J. J. Abrams' \"Star Trek\" film; however, his scenes were deleted from the finished film.\n\nIn 2010, Garber had an uncredited cameo in \"The Town\" as a bank manager. The film was directed by \"Alias\" co-star Jennifer Garner's husband, Ben Affleck. Also Garber had a credited role in the Ice Quake at the end of 2010. In late 2012, he appeared in Affleck's film \"Argo\", about the Iran hostage crisis; Garber portrayed Canadian Ambassador to Iran Kenneth D. Taylor. He also co-starred in 2014 thriller \"Big Game\".\n\nOn television, he has had roles on American and Canadian shows. Garber's first leading role on television show was in CBS's 1985 summer series \"I Had Three Wives\". He had a recurring guest role on CTV's \"E.N.G.\" (1991–93). He portrayed Jack Bristow on ABC's show, \"Alias\", earning three Emmy nominations. He next starred on the television series \"Justice\" (2006) on Fox and ABC's \"Eli Stone\". He appeared as Olivier Roth in four episodes of the Canadian science drama \"ReGenesis\". He appeared in Episode 3 of the Fox series \"Glee\" as Will's father. He played Dr. Martin Stein / Firestorm on \"The Flash\" beginning in 2015 and appeared as the character in a regular role on \"Legends of Tomorrow\" until 2017 and has the recurring role of Admiral Halsey on \"The Orville\".\n\nGarber prefers to keep his personal life private and has largely stayed out of the tabloids. He referred publicly to his homosexuality in 2012. In 2013, he said \"I don't really talk about it, but everybody knows.\" Garber has been in a relationship with Canadian artist and model Rainer Andreesen since 2000. On October 10, 2015, Andreesen announced on his Instagram page that he and Garber were married in Canada. Victor and Rainer reside in Southampton, New York. Victor has Type 1 diabetes he was diagnosed in 1962 when he was 12 years old \n\nSource: \"Playbill\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13231954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13231954", "title": "Wabanaki Confederacy", "text": "Wabanaki Confederacy\n\nThe Wabanaki Confederacy (\"Wabenaki, Wobanaki\", translated roughly as \"People of the First Light\" or \"People of the Dawnland\") are a First Nations and Native American confederation of five principal nations: the Mi'kmaq, Maliseet, Passamaquoddy, Abenaki, and Penobscot.\n\nMembers of the Wabanaki Confederacy, the Wabanaki peoples, are in and named for the area which they call \"Wabanahkik\" (\"Dawnland\"), generally known to European settlers as Acadia. It is made up of most of present-day Maine in the United States, and New Brunswick, mainland Nova Scotia, Cape Breton Island, Prince Edward Island and some of Quebec south of the St. Lawrence River in Canada. The Western Abenaki live on lands in New Hampshire, Vermont, and Massachusetts of the United States.\n\nIn recent official statements, the Confederacy has emphasized common cause with, and acceptance of, alliances with environmental activists toward the goal of protecting their land and waters. They gained powers under the United Nations 2010 Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (DRIP) and related treaties which major powers have signed.\n\nThe confederacy has historically united five North American Algonquian language-speaking First Nations peoples. It played a key role in supporting the colonial rebels of the American Revolution via the Treaty of Watertown, signed in 1776 by the Mi'kmaq and Passamaquoddy, two of its constituent tribes. Under this treaty, Wabanaki soldiers from Canada are still permitted to join the US military. They have done so in 21st-century conflicts in which the US has engaged, including the Afghanistan War and the Iraq War.\n\nMembers of the Wabanaki Confederacy are:\n\n\nNations in the Confederacy are also closely allied with the Innu and Algonquin and with the Iroquoian-speaking Wyandot. Wabanaki were also allies of the Huron in the past. Together they jointly invited the colonization of Quebec City and LaHave and the formation of New France in 1603, in order to put French guns, ships, and forts between themselves and the powerful Mohawk people to the west. Today the only remaining Huron First Nation resides mostly in the suburbs of Quebec City, a legacy of this protective alliance.\n\nThe Wabanaki ancestral homeland stretches from Newfoundland, Canada to the Merrimack River valley in New Hampshire and Massachusetts, United States. This became a hotly contested borderland between the English of colonial New England and French Acadia following the European settlement in the early 17th century. Members of the Wabanaki Confederacy of Acadia participated in six major wars, beginning with King William's War in 1688, before the British defeated the French in North America:\n\n\nDuring this period, their population was radically decimated due to many decades of warfare, but also because of famines and devastating epidemics of infectious disease.\n\nWabanaki people freely intermarried with French Catholics in Acadia starting in 1610 after the conversion of Chief Henri Membertou. After 1783 and the end of the American Revolutionary War, Black Loyalists, freedmen from the British colonies, were resettled by the British in this historical territory. They had promised slaves freedom if they left their rebel masters and joined the British. Three thousand freedmen were evacuated to Nova Scotia by British ships from the colonies after the war. \n\nMany intermarriages occurred between these peoples, especially in southwest Nova Scotia from Yarmouth to Halifax. Suppression of Acadian, Black, Mi'kmaq, and Irish people under British rule tended to force these peoples together as allies of necessity. Some white and black parents abandoned their mixed-race children on reserves to be raised in Wabanaki culture, even as late as the 1970s.\n\nThe British declared the Wabanaki Confederacy forcibly disbanded in 1862. However the five Wabanaki nations still exist, continued to meet, and the Confederacy was formally re-established in 1993.\n\nThe Wabanaki Confederacy gathering was revived in 1993. The first reconstituted confederacy conference in contemporary time was developed and proposed by Claude Aubin and Beaver Paul and hosted by the Mi'kmaq community of Listuguj under the leadership of Chief Brenda Gideon Miller. The sacred Council Fire was lit again, and embers from the fire have been kept burning continually since then. The revival of the Wabanaki Confederacy brought together the Passamaquoddy Nation, Penobscot Nation, Maliseet Nation, the Mi'kmaq Nation, and the Abenaki Nation\n\nFollowing the 2010 UN DRIP declaration (Declaration of Rights of Indigenous Peoples), the tribes began to assert their rights as defined in it. They invited non-Indian people to participate in the Confederacy meetings, especially environmental activists. The Wabanaki leadership emphasized the continuing role of the Confederacy in protecting natural capital. \n\nSome key quotes from leading participants:\n\n\"When we talk about Wabanaki people, we're also talking about Wabanaki people being the land, being the trees, being the animals, because in that cultural perspective, we're all related...The Wabanaki are in a far better position to defend the land,\" says gkisedtanamoogk. \"No land was ever ceded, and that's acknowledged by both the province and the federal government. So on the basis of the treaties, what we're suggesting is that you and I have a common responsibility to the land under those treaties.\" – gkisedtanamoogk, the Gathering's fire keeper.\n\n\"Within the Wabanaki territory we're looking for allies that are going to stand against the total annihilation of our land and water and air. We're looking for allies who will help us to put our nation back together, and put it back in order. And we're asking our allies to help us empower that. And in the process of doing that, they will be decolonizing us and they will be decolonizing themselves.\" – Jeaba-weay-quay (roughly translated from Obijway to 'The woman whose voice pierces').\n\n\"We're going to rebuild the Wabanaki Confederacy,\" says LaPorte. \"We also invited some non-Natives...to come and be with us and to help us build an alliance, so that when we...come into conflict with the government and some of their decisions and policies...to have them stand beside us and to let their government know that it's not only Native people who are worried about the water, the land, the air. But it's also people from their nation that are concerned.\" – Harry LaPorte, grand chief of the Maliseet First Nation\n\nThe final press release indicated that \"the grandmothers\" would decide the next step in reconstructing the confederacy as a legal and sovereign entity. The structure resembles that of Indigenous Peoples in Chiapas. Subcomandante Marcos and other political and military leaders better known to the public there have formally recognized the authority of the \"comandantes\" (older Indigenous women).\n\nThere were meetings amongst allies, a \"Water Convergence Ceremony\" in May 2013, with Algonquin grandmothers in August 2013 supported by Kairos Canada, and with other indigenous groups. \n\nAlma Brooks represented the Confederacy at the June 2014 UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues. She discussed the Wabanaki/Wolostoq position on the Energy East pipeline. Opposition to its construction has been a catalyst for organizing:\n\nThese and other preparatory meetings set an agenda for the August 19–22, 2015, meeting which produced the promised Grandmothers' Declaration \"adopted unanimously at N'dakinna (Shelburne, VT) on August 21, 2015\". The Declaration included mention of:\n\n\nOn October 15, 2015, Alma Brooks spoke to the New Brunswick Hydrofracturing Commission, applying the Declaration to current provincial industrial practices:\n\n\nThe Passamaquoddy will host the 2016 Wabanaki Confederacy Conference.\n\nThe term \"Wabanaki Confederacy\" in many Algonquian languages literally means \"Dawn Land People\". \nMaps showing the approximate locations of areas occupied by members of the Wabanaki Confederacy (from north to south):\n\n"}
{"id": "22651652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22651652", "title": "Wena Poon", "text": "Wena Poon\n\nWena Poon (方慧娜, born 1974) is a lawyer and novelist based in the United States. She writes English-language fiction. Her work has been seen by academics in the UK, US and Singapore as representative of the transnationalism of her generation.\n\nPoon began writing novels and plays in her early teens. She obtained her degrees in English literature and law from Harvard University. She is a corporate finance lawyer by profession. Born and raised in Singapore, she has lived in Hong Kong, New York, Boston, San Francisco and Austin. Her family is of Chinese Teochew descent and has lived in Singapore for five generations. According to Poon her grandmother and the story of her family as well as her home country during WWII served as a major inspiration to her as a writer. She speaks English, French, Mandarin, Teochew, Cantonese and Hokkien and reads Japanese script. These languages are sometimes used in her English-language fiction. She claimed that she had grown up with multilingual radio broadcasts and television series including M*A*S*H. Poon herself described her childhood as \"audio-visual\". She is a photography enthusiast and has incorporated some of her photographs as illustration to her novella \"Kami and Kaze\". Poon is also a fan of anime, manga as well as the works of the film director and actor Takeshi Kitano.\n\nSince her first book was released in 2008, Poon has won the Willesden Herald Short Story Prize (UK), and has been nominated for the Frank O'Connor Award (Ireland), Le Prix Hemingway (France), the Bridport Prize in Poetry (UK), the Singapore Literature Prize, and the Popular Readers Award (Malaysia).\n\n\"Lions in Winter\" (2007) portrays the Singapore Chinese diaspora in America, Canada, Australia and England. It was published in the US and Europe by Salt Publishing London and in Asia by MPH Group Publishing. It was a Straits Times best-seller in Singapore, was longlisted for the 2008 Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award and shortlisted for the 2008 Singapore Literature Prize.\n\nIn 2009, Poon released \"The Proper Care of Foxes\". Using Voltaire's \"Il fault cultiver notre jardin\" as a theme, the stories take place in Singapore, Hanoi, Hong Kong, London, New York, and Palo Alto. The title story is about a high-flying young London banker who was laid off during the recession and his chance encounter with an old classmate from Malaysia. Published by Ethos Books, it earned her a second longlist nomination for the Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award and another nomination for the Singapore Literature Prize.\n\nIn 2013, Poon released \"Maxine, Aoki, Beto + Me\", her third short fiction collection featuring stories and her black and white photographs from around the world. Most of the stories have been previously published in international literary anthologies and journals in 2010–2012, including \"The Architects\", winner of the Willesden Herald Prize in London and \"Dialogue Between Novillera and Minotaur\", shortlisted for the Prix Hemingway in France.\n\nPoon's novel \"Alex y Robert\" was commissioned by a Singapore theatre director originally for the stage. It was acquired by BBC Radio 4 and made into a 10 episode radio drama starring veteran BBC American actress Lorelei King. A short story spinoff from \"Alex y Robert\", \"Dialogue Between Novillera & Minotaur\", was translated in French and performed in the ancient Roman amphitheater in Nimes, France. It was shortlisted for France's Hemingway Prize and later published by Avocats du Diable in a French anthology called \"Pas De Deux\" (September 2011).\n\nPoon's great-granduncle was the head of a Chinese Teochew opera troupe in Malaysia during the golden era of Chinese opera in the 1930s. Poon incorporated Teochew opera in her latest English play \"The Wood Orchid\", which was performed at Westminster Abbey, London, as part of the Bush Theatre's October 2011 project \"Sixty Six Books\". The authentic Chinese opera costumes in the play were sourced from Manchester. The play is for 4 actors, based upon a chapter of the King James Bible. The title refers to Hua Mulan, the Chinese woman warrior. The play was published by Oberon Books London in a book called \"66 Books: 21st Century Writers speak to the King James Bible\" (October 2011).\n\nIn 2016, Poon released 4 new novels, among which are \"Chang'an: A Story of China & Japan\" (長安）, about a Mandarin-speaking Japanese army doctor who hides in Communist China for decades as a Chinese man, and \"Shonanto no Ramen\" （吃麵民族）, about the shared love of ramen noodles between the Chinese and the Japanese, set against the backdrop of war during the Japanese Occupation of Singapore. The novels explore the history of China and Japan's intimate but fractious relationship.\n\nPoon is bilingual and writes in English. However, \"Shonanto no Ramen\" is her first book written in both English and Chinese.\n\nIn 2015, Poon published a novel, \"Cafe Jause: A Story of Viennese Shanghai\", about a Viennese cafe run by Hungarian and Viennese Jews in 1936 Shanghai. It was launched at the China Bookworm Literary Festival in Beijing, Chengdu and Suzhou. In 2014, Poon released a novel called \"Kami and Kaze\" (神と風). Set in 1948 Kyoto, the novel is about the American occupation of Japan and the relationship between an Allied administrator, Kate Schroeder, and her young Japanese driver, Nakamura Shinji. It examines white racism against the Japanese and the power of the words \"kamikaze\" in the Western imagination.\n\nPoon's 2010 novel, \"Alex y Robert\", is a 21st-century novel about a young woman from Texas who goes to Spain to break into the male-dominated world of bullfighting.It was adapted by BBC Radio 4 for serialisation over two weeks for its \"Book at Bedtime\" radio show. The series ran from 6–17 September 2010. \"Alex y Robert\" was launched on 12 July at the London Literature Festival to favourable reviews.\n\nIn 2013, Poon released the sequel to \"Alex y Robert\" called \"Novillera\". The novel comments on gender, tradition and modernity and explores the ancient bull ranching culture of Spain.\n\nIn 2012–2015, Poon wrote a trilogy of Chinese-Japanese sword fighting novels as a humorous, modern response to classical Ming plays, Kun opera, wuxia television shows, and samurai films. They are published as \"The Adventures of Snow Fox & Sword Girl\", \"Voyage to the Dark Kirin\", and \"The Marquis of Disobedience\". The trilogy is a rumination on the history of the Chinese diaspora and their idea of a mythic China. It also examines the warrior or bushido code and its meaning for modern society and for women.\n\nIn 2009, Poon published four novels in her New York sci fi series, \"The Biophilia Omnibus\". During Christmas 2009, CNN's online magazine voted it the Best Book Gift of the Year in Singapore. The \"New Straits Times\" compared \"Biophilia\" to the works of film director Terry Gilliam in its book review.The series has been exhibited at the Alternative Press Expo in San Francisco.\n\nPoon's poetry has been published in anthologies, magazines and newspapers in Asia and Australia. In 2010, she was shortlisted for the Bridport Poetry Prize in the UK.\n\nPoon graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Harvard University with an honours degree in English Literature. She received a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School and continues to practice law. In Singapore, she attended Nanyang Girls Primary, Raffles Girls Primary, Raffles Girls School and Raffles Junior College, where she was a Humanities Scholar. She was in the Gifted Education Program in Singapore. She is a fellow of the Hawthornden Castle writing fellowship in Scotland, and a visiting fellow of the International Writing Workshop of Hong Kong Baptist University. In 2011, she was awarded a writer's residency by French literary press Avocats du Diable in the bullfighting region of southern France.\n\n\nWena Poon's poetry has appeared in the following publications:\n\n\n"}
