{"id": "31951442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31951442", "title": "Africa.com", "text": "Africa.com\n\nAfrica.com is an internet media company. Launched in 2010 by Teresa Clarke, the company has grown into a media company providing coverage on topics such financial, political and cultural news related to Africa. Using the online web portal about the continent, its main purpose is to be a unique platform for anyone interested in Africa to learn more about all aspects of the continent. Also it provides for both business and world leaders accurate information about the investment climate.\n\nThe Africa.com organization has representation offices in Johannesburg, South Africa; Lagos, Nigeria; and New York City, United States. African American business woman and entrepreneur Teresa Clarke is the CEO and founder of the site; CBS News correspondent Jacqueline Adams is the executive editor, and Jendayi Frazer (Ambassador to South Africa) is an advisory board member.\n\nAfrica.com was launched in February 2010, by Teresa Clarke after resigning from her position as a managing director in the investment banking division of Goldman Sachs & Co. Clarke is also co-founder of the Student Sponsorship Programme in South Africa.\n\nClarke lived in South Africa from 1995 to 2000 and acquired the domain name around 2001. \"Over most of the last decade, I worked at Goldman Sachs. During my free time, I imagined what I would do with the domain name and I looked at other African websites.\"\n\nIn a \"Wall Street Journal\" article from May 2010, Africa.com was mentioned because of its potential relevance with the impending 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa that same year. \"The site is small—with about 50,000 monthly unique users—but Ms. Clarke said she sees potential in the growth of African investment and a middle class in several African countries.\" Since then, Africa.com has expanded to add information about each of the continent's 54 countries, with over 30,000 daily visitors according to Alexa.com.\n\nRecently Africa.com has partnered with a number of well-known content providers including The Council on Foreign Relations, Foreign Affairs and HAND/EYE Magazines, McKinsey and Company, Freedom House and the Mo Ibrahim Foundation. It has also developed its own original content including blogs from the likes of a former president of Nigeria and several U.S. ambassadors to various African countries. Also it has published the first and only online museum guide providing detailed information about museums in every African country. Thus becoming a heavily visited site and destination for users from different continents interested in Africa.\n\nThe site aims to provide travel information, financial, political and cultural news, maps, information about international events and non-profit organizations related to Africa, as well as views from a varied array of opinion-leaders. It also provides encyclopedic information about each of the 54 countries on the African continent, with specially written travel information about 54 countries and 27 cities as well as 200 curated videos. Designed in collaboration with Brightcove Inc., Africa.com offers the same flexible, multi-language, on-line video platform used by \"The New York Times\".\n\nOn January 2011, Africa.com received over three million page views from almost one million users, the majority from the United States and Europe.\n\nOn a March 2011 interview to Memeburn.com, Teresa Clarke said, \"For me, ownership of the Africa.com domain name is about more than a business opportunity. I see this as a tremendous privilege and a great responsibility. Whoever owns this domain name has a monumental opportunity to shape how the internet world views Africa. Africa has been very good to me throughout my life and my career, and I wanted to step up to the challenge of ensuring that this great vehicle for change is used responsibly and effectively.\"\n\nOn Thursday April 28, 2011, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan pledged government support and collaboration with the Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) when he hosted founder Tony Elumelu and the TEF Advisory Board in Abuja, stating that relevant government institutions will be asked to work with the foundation. The Advisory Board members who accompanied Elumelu when he paid a courtesy call on the President included Teresa Clarke, founder and CEO of Africa.com and H. E. Shaukat Aziz, former Prime Minister of Pakistan.\n\nClarke said Africa.com is working on a platform that would allow people to check stock-market prices and make transactions on their cellphones.\n\nAfrica.com offers an encyclopedia, nicknamed “Afripedia”, that aims to provide information about each of the 54 sovereign states, including Madagascar and various island groups. Every country profile offers an overview of said country, as well as historic, geographic, economic and social data. The section also includes a fact and figures entry, information about the leaders of the country, and a \"Rights and Liberties Report\".\n\nThe site also offers interaction with Twitter and Facebook, travel and music videos, and short films and documentaries.\n\nIn partnership with Freedom House, Africa.com brings information on the human rights and civil liberties of every African country. Basic freedoms, political rights, freedom of religion, the right to free speech, free elections, political freedom, Africa human rights.\n\nThe \"Rights and Liberties Report\" is a scored provided by Freedom House, an advocacy organization that monitors and supports the expansion of freedom around the world. The organization has developed a survey to measure and rate worldwide political rights and civil liberties. A rating of 1 indicates the highest degree of freedom and 7 the least amount of freedom. The political rights and civil liberties ratings for each country or territory are combined and averaged to determine an overall \"freedom status\".\n\nCountries and territories with a combined average rating of 1.0 to 2.5 are considered \"Free\"; 3.0 to 5.0, \"Partly Free\"; and 5.5 to 7.0 \"Not Free\". On Africa.com, upward or downward trend arrows are assigned to countries and territories. Trend arrows indicate general positive or negative trends since the previous survey that are not necessarily reflected in the raw points and does not warrant a ratings change.\n\nBeing an aggregator of information regarding the African continent, Africa.com features the Ibrahim Index of African Governance funded and led by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation. It is an attempt to statistically monitor African governance levels throughout all the countries of Africa.\n\nRecently Africa.com partnered with Rhino Africa, a South African safari operator, to develop the Safari Wizard guide. This tool aims to help users design a custom safari among the main safari destinations in Africa: South Africa, Tanzania, Kenya, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Namibia. It offers a filter with which users can select different criteria, including location, children facilities, means of transportation, activities, cost, facilities, lodging amenities and animal sightings.\n\nIt also offers a Safari Advisor guide that aims to suit different safari customers based on their travel habits, destination of choice, activities they are looking for and additional requirements (e.g. vaccines for yellow fever, malaria, visa requirements, packing tips and safety concerns).\n\nAside from a traveling blog, it also offers maps and travel information as well as a museum guide for each country, that provides information of when to go, how to get there, what to do, safety and security tips and local advice. The Travel Health section holds information for tourists about vaccinations, medications, and other health advice for travel in Africa.\n\nIt also Africa.com offers direct links with other travel website like Tripadvisor.com, Bookingbuddy.com and STA Travel for booking flights, hotels, get deals and organizing trips.\n\nThe site offers business and financial information to its visitors, aside from that provided by the finance blog posts, based on information from the Council on Foreign Relations, Reuters Africa and \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine. It also offers articles, videos and interviews from McKinsey Quarterly.\n\nRecently Africa.com began to offer the Africa-related articles of HAND/EYE Magazine, a New York-based print and online publication focused on global arts, crafts, design, and culture. HAND/EYE aims to highlight creative projects and ventures originating in Africa.\n\nAfrica.com devotes a feature to \"Africa First\", the short film program is sponsored by Focus Features. The Africa First Short Film Program aims to support films that aspire to artistic excellence and accomplished storytelling, and substantially contribute to the development of local film industries. Award recipients of the 2010 Focus Features Africa First Short Film Program can use award money received from Africa First to complete initial production and to pay for post-production costs such as laboratory fees, sound mixing, and editing.\n\nPartnering with SARFM Radio, founded by Zimbabwean Chaka, radio.Africa.com provides with African music in all possible genres from the continent.\n\nThe site's primary audience is American, aims to shape the opinion of Americans on Africa using African sources, rather than the Western media.\n\nBased on a recent study more than 90 percent of Africa.com users have some college or are college graduates and about 22 percent have at least one graduate degree. Their top three areas of interest are travel, business/investment and arts and culture.\n\nApproximately 60 percent of Africa.com users are white or Asian, 23 percent are African and 17 percent are African-American. Approximately 52 percent are male and 48 percent female. More than 50 percent come from the United States; 20 percent from Europe, 20 percent from Asia and the balance from South America, India and South Africa.\n\nMore than 70 percent of users connect to Africa.com via broadband. On May 26, 2011 the Facebook page of Africa.com surpassed the 2,500 followers. And as of June 2011 their Twitter account had little over 900 followers.\n\nAccording to an Alexa Internet report, by June 2011, Africa.com's three-month global Alexa traffic rank is 113,943. The site's visitors view 3.8 unique pages each day on average. While roughly 54% of visitors to the site come from the US, where it is ranked #34,025, it is also popular in South Africa, where it is ranked #6,275.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "603004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603004", "title": "Biographical Directory of the United States Congress", "text": "Biographical Directory of the United States Congress\n\nThe Biographical Directory of the United States Congress is a biographical dictionary of all present and former members of the United States Congress and its predecessor, the Continental Congress. Also included are Delegates from territories and the District of Columbia and Resident Commissioners from the Philippines and Puerto Rico.\n\nThe online edition also includes a guide to research collections (a list of institutions where member's papers, letters, correspondence, and other items are archived) as well as an extended bibliography of published works concerning the member (a shorter bibliography is included with the member's biography). These additional resources when available can be accessed via links on the left side of the member's page on the website.\n\nCharles Lanman, author, journalist, and former secretary to Daniel Webster, gathered the first collection of biographies of former and sitting members of Congress for his \"Dictionary of Congress\", published by J. B. Lippincott & Co. in 1859. Lanman intended his \"Dictionary of the United States Congress\" to serve primarily as a guide for sitting Members of Congress, much as the \"Congressional Directory\" functions today.\n\nIn 1864, the House of Representatives and the Senate approved the publication of an updated version of Lanman's \"Dictionary of Congress\" by the recently established Government Printing Office. In the late 1860s Congress offered Benjamin Perley Poore, a journalist and clerk of the Senate Committee on Printing and Records, the job of preparing a \"Congressional Directory\" with biographical sketches and the kind of reference information found in the \"Dictionary of Congress\".\n\nIn anticipation of the centenary of American independence and in search of a market not served by Poore's \"Congressional Directory\", Lanman prepared the \"Biographical Annals of the Civil Government of the United States\", published by James Anglim of Washington, D.C. in 1876. This volume combined the biographies of the \"Dictionary of Congress\" with entries for other governmental officials since 1776 and expanded reference tables. Poore offered a competing historical volume in 1878 with his \"Political Register and Congressional Directory\", published by Houghton, Osgood and Company, Boston.\n\nJoseph M. Morrison's revision of Lanman's \"Biographical Annals\" (New York, 1887) was the final directory of congressional biography to be prepared and published privately. In 1903 Congress authorized the publication of \"A Biographical Congressional Directory, 1774 to 1903\". Compiled under the direction of O. M. Enyart, this was the first volume prepared by congressional staff who drew on the Lanman and Poore editions as well as biographical information printed in the \"Congressional Directory\" since the 40th United States Congress (1867). The most thorough and systematic revision of biographical entries attempted prior to the Bicentennial Edition was conducted in preparation for the \"Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774–1927\". Ansel Wold, chief clerk of the Joint Committee on Printing, directed the compilation of this volume published in 1928.\n\nThis survey of the 1920s yielded more detailed and consistent biographies than had been found in the nineteenth-century editions or in the earlier volumes compiled by congressional staff. The frequent reliance on family legends and personal recollections, however, introduced dubious information into the volume. Although Congress authorized updates that were published in 1950, 1961, and 1971, the entries from the 1928 edition remained virtually intact in the three subsequent editions. The creation of the Senate Historical Office in 1975 and the Office for the Bicentennial in the United States House of Representatives in 1983 provided the first opportunity for professional historians to revise and update the Biographical Directory. Earlier editions of the Biographical Directory and their nineteenth century predecessors offered little information on congressional careers other than terms of service. The bicentennial edition provided a more complete record of the individual Members' years in office. A 1996 edition was published by Congressional Quarterly, but did not achieve wide circulation due to the much higher cover price.\n\nThe development and growing use of the Internet in the 1990s led to the creation of websites for the House of Representatives and the Senate. Ray Strong, Assistant to the Clerk of the House, advocated the idea of publishing the entries from the Biographical Directory on the Internet. Through the efforts of Joe Carmel, Cindy S. Leach, and Gary Hahn of Legislative Computer Systems under the Clerk of the House, and Cheri Allen of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, the entries of the Biographical Directory became available online during the week of November 9, 1998, at http://bioguide.congress.gov/ under the auspices of the House Legislative Resource Center and the Senate Historical Office. Internet technology has allowed the editors to update entries of the Biographical Directory on a daily basis. Besides the biographies, the online database includes extensive bibliographies and a guide to all available research collections for Senate and House entries. The project was the first SGML/XML project for the House and Senate and paved the way for the drafting of legislation in XML in both chambers.\n\nThe online version, accessible to the public, also has benefited from updated information provided to the House Office of History and Preservation and the Senate Historical Office from scholars, librarians, genealogists, and family members. Senate entries are accompanied by an image of the Senator, when available. Online House entries include images for women Members and Speakers with official oil portraits and members since the 109th United States Congress (2005).\n\nThe data is maintained by staff in the Office of the Clerk's Office of History and Preservation and the Office of the Historian of the United States Senate.\n\nThe index value in the URL is a unique value for each member of Congress. There are some duplicates for name changes: and refer to the same person. The ID is also re-used in XML versions of House legislation (see http://congress.gov and http://xml.house.gov).\n\n"}
{"id": "24169901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24169901", "title": "Biological Abstracts", "text": "Biological Abstracts\n\nBiological Abstracts is a database produced by Clarivate Analytics. It includes abstracts from peer-reviewed academic journal articles in the fields of biology, biochemistry, biotechnology, botany, pre-clinical and experimental medicine, pharmacology, zoology, agriculture, and veterinary medicine published since 1926.\n\nIt can be accessed through number of services, including EBSCO, Ovid and Web of Science. \n\nThe service began as a print publication in 1926, when it was formed by the union of Abstracts of Bacteriology (1917–25), and Botanical Abstracts (1919–26), both published in Baltimore by Williams and Wilkins. It was published in paperback subject sections, with abstracts usually written by scientist in the US, as a great many of articles in that period were in other languages. At the time of founding it was in competition with the classified indexing service of the Concilium Bibliographicum in Zurich. \n\nThe first online version was published on magnetic tape; it contained only the bibliographic information, not the text of the abstracts, and was intended as a rapid alerting service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11202077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11202077", "title": "Bob Backlund", "text": "Bob Backlund\n\nRobert Louis Backlund (born August 14, 1949) is an American retired professional wrestler with an in-ring career spanning over 30 years, best known for his tenures in the World Wide Wrestling Federation/World Wrestling Federation (WWWF/WWF, later known as World Wrestling Entertainment and currently simply known as WWE), where he is a two-time WWWF/WWF Heavyweight Champion/WWF World Heavyweight Champion (Backlund's first reign is the second-longest reign in the title history, behind Bruno Sammartino's first), as well as being inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2013.\n\nBacklund was an accomplished amateur wrestler for the North Dakota State University Bison from the late 1960s to early 1970s. In 2000, he unsuccessfully ran for a Connecticut seat in Congress on a Republican ticket.\n\nBacklund was born in Princeton, Minnesota, in 1949. During his freshman year, Backlund was an All-American in both football and wrestling (, finishing third) while at Waldorf Junior College in Forest City, Iowa. During his sophomore campaign, Backlund focused on wrestling and once again earned All American Honors ( and national runner-up). Backlund was an amateur wrestler at North Dakota State University, winning the Division II NCAA Championship at 190 pounds in 1971. In 1972 Backlund moved up to the heavyweight class and finished fifth at the NCAA DII Nationals. He is a graduate of Princeton High School, where he was a state finalist in wrestling. He graduated from North Dakota State University with a degree in physical education.\n\nBacklund was trained for professional wrestling by renowned trainer Eddie Sharkey and made his debut for the American Wrestling Association (AWA) in 1973. Backlund's clean cut look and technical approach made him a natural face, and he quickly got over with the fans. After leaving the AWA, Backlund traveled the United States, working for the National Wrestling Alliance in its various territories. In 1974, Backlund wrestled in Texas, for Dory Funk, Jr. and Terry Funk's Amarillo, Texas-based Western States Sports promotion. In March, he defeated Terry Funk for the NWA Western States Heavyweight Championship (the promotion's top title). Backlund held it for two months, before losing it to Karl Von Steiger in May.\n\nIn mid-1975, Backlund started working for Georgia Championship Wrestling (GCW). He teamed with Jerry Brisco to win the NWA Georgia Tag Team Championship from Toru Tanaka and Mr. Fuji in October 1975. They held the championship belts for two months before losing to Les Thornton and Tony Charles. In 1976, Backlund left Georgia for Championship Wrestling from Florida (CWF, NWA Florida). Here he teamed with Steve Keirn to defeat Bob Orton, Jr. and Bob Roop for the NWA Florida Tag Team Championship. Backlund and Keirn lost the title to The Hollywood Blonds (Buddy Roberts and Jerry Brown) in October 1976. While working for NWA Florida, Backlund also wrestled in St. Louis, Missouri, for Sam Muchnick's St. Louis Wrestling Club. He defeated Harley Race to win the NWA Missouri Heavyweight Championship on April 23, 1976, and he lost the title to Jack Brisco on November 26.\n\nIn early 1977, Backlund joined Vincent J. McMahon's World Wide Wrestling Federation. He was managed by \"The Golden Boy\" Arnold Skaaland. Less than four months into his WWWF run, Backlund received his first shot at the WWWF Heavyweight Championship against Superstar Billy Graham, but he lost by countout. Through 1977, Backlund received additional title shots at the champion, and his fortunes started to change; the two went to a double countout in one match, then Backlund defeated Graham, but by countout (the title can only change hands via pinfall or submission). On February 20, 1978, at Madison Square Garden, Backlund finally scored a pinfall victory over Graham and won the title, despite Graham's leg being on the rope during the pinfall.\n\nBacklund's early challengers for the title included Spiros Arion, Mr. Fuji, Ivan Koloff, George \"the Animal\" Steele, and Ken Patera, and had his first high-profile title match in Japan, defending against Antonio Inoki. He also won a series of rematches against Graham, including an April 1978 steel cage match at Madison Square Garden.\n\nThree days after winning the WWWF Heavyweight Championship, Backlund clashed with the NWA World Heavyweight Champion Harley Race in a rare \"WWWF vs. NWA\" title match. Both titles were on the line, but neither changed hands as the two fought to a 60-minute time limit draw. Defending against other champions became a recurring theme in Backlund's run with the title. He faced the AWA World Heavyweight Champion (Nick Bockwinkel) and two NWA World Heavyweight Champions (Harley Race four times and Ric Flair once)He defeated the NWA Florida Heavyweight Champion Don Muraco. In 1982, he battled \"International Champion\" Billy Robinson to a 63-minute curfew draw in Montreal.\n\nEarly in his run, Backlund and Peter Maivia formed a successful tag team and challenged for the WWWF World Tag Team Championship, then held by The Yukon Lumberjacks. During a television taping in October 1978, Maivia turned on and attacked him and Skaaland. In the immediate aftermath, fans for the first time got to see another side of Backlund's personality: that of a raving, ranting maniac when angered or pushed hard enough; in the post-match interview, Backlund screamed to interviewer Vince McMahon that he was going to \"kill that son of a bitch!\" Backlund eventually won a series of matches against Maivia, including a steel cage match in January 1979 at Madison Square Garden.\n\nIn 1979, the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) became the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). On November 30, 1979, NWF Heavyweight Champion Antonio Inoki defeated Backlund in Tokushima, Japan to win the WWF title. Backlund then won a rematch on December 6. However, WWF president Hisashi Shinma declared the re-match a no contest due to interference from Tiger Jeet Singh, and Inoki remained Champion. Inoki refused the title on the same day, and it was declared vacant. Backlund later defeated Bobby Duncum in a Texas Death match to regain the title on December 17. As Inoki refused the title, his reign is not included nor is it recognized by WWE in its official history.\n\nOn August 9, 1980, Backlund teamed with Pedro Morales to capture the WWF Tag Team Championship from The Wild Samoans at Showdown at Shea. Backlund and Morales were forced to vacate the title due to a then-extant WWF rule stating that no one can hold two championships at the same time. Backlund had more tag team success when he (along with Antonio Inoki) won the \"1980 MSG Tag Team League Tournament\", last defeating Hulk Hogan and Stan Hansen on December 10 in Osaka, Japan. Backlund and Inoki finished the tournament with seven wins and two double-countout decisions.\n\nAlso during 1980, Backlund and Hogan met in a series of highly publicized matches; although he scored several countout victories over Hogan, Backlund never was able to score a decisive victory over his charismatic young challenger, and Hogan – showing flashes of his future superstardom – proved to be one of Backlund's toughest opponents. Backlund was also able to overcome a challenge from Ken Patera, with whom he feuded on-and-off from 1978 until early 1981, including during Patera's reign as WWF Intercontinental Heavyweight Champion.\n\nBacklund's WWF Heavyweight Championship was held up after a match in New York City against Greg \"The Hammer\" Valentine on October 19, 1981, after a dazed referee \"accidentally\" gave the championship belt to Valentine as part of the storyline, it constituted an interruption of Backlund's title reign. However, Backlund was billed as the WWF Heavyweight Champion in other cities in the days following the controversy. In the early part of the 1980s, when no promotion held nationally televised events, it was not uncommon practice to \"hold up\" the title in one area (to build interest in a rematch the \"former\" champion would win) while ignoring the situation in other parts of the territory. On November 23, Backlund pinned Valentine for the \"Vacant in New York Only\" WWF Heavyweight Championship. A rematch for the title, held inside a steel cage at the Philadelphia Spectrum in January 1982, also saw Backlund emerge the winner, securing the victory when he hit a piledriver on Valentine into the mat. Even with the title being held up against Antonio Inoki and Greg Valentine, Bob Backlund is recognized by WWE as having one continuous title reign from 1978 to 1983 as WWE Champion.\n\nBacklund continued to be successful into 1982 and 1983, successfully defending against a variety of contenders, ranging from Adrian Adonis, \"Cowboy\" Bob Orton, Big John Studd, Ivan Koloff, Magnificent Muraco and Sgt. Slaughter. One of his most memorable encounters came in mid-1982, when he won a steel cage match against \"Superfly\" Jimmy Snuka; in that match, at Madison Square Garden, Snuka scaled the top of the cage, intending to perform his \"Superfly\" splash onto a prone Backlund to incapacitate him, but Backlund moved after Snuka began to fly through the air and went on to escape the cage. He also turned back a challenge from Superstar Billy Graham, who returned to the WWF in late 1982 wanting to reclaim the championship.\n\nAfter having been popular with the fans from early on, in the final months of his title reign, Backlund changed his image, cutting his mop hair into a crew cut, wearing amateur wrestling singlets and losing muscle mass and definition. Fans seemingly grew weary of this \"Howdy Doody\" character (as The Grand Wizard had dubbed him). In 1983, he was voted the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\"'s \"Most Overrated Wrestler\". Vince McMahon, who had bought the WWF from his father, wanted to put the title on the more charismatic and muscular Hulk Hogan. McMahon initially suggested Backlund to turn heel and lose to Hogan, but when Backlund refused, a transitional champion became necessary between Backlund and Hogan. Backlund sustained a (kayfabe) injury when The Iron Sheik assaulted him with his Persian clubs and on December 26, 1983, Backlund lost the title to Sheik when Backlund's manager, Arnold Skaaland, threw in the towel while Backlund was locked in the camel clutch.\n\nDue to Backlund's (kayfabe) injury, Hogan took over Backlund's rematch and became the new WWF World Heavyweight Champion. However, this was a television storyline only; Backlund wrestled The Iron Sheik at least three times for the title, all at non-televised house shows (including once at the Boston Garden, winning by disqualification), and also wrestled The Magnificent Muraco for the Intercontinental Heavyweight Championship, also at a non-televised house show.\n\nBacklund continued to work for the WWF for a while after the title change, but did not receive another title shot for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship after Hogan's victory. On August 4, 1984, Backlund defeated Salvatore Bellomo in his last WWF match for eight years.\n\nAfter leaving the WWF, Backlund had a run in the short-lived Pro Wrestling USA, a joint promotion of the NWA and the AWA, meant to combat the national expansion of the WWF. In Pro Wrestling USA, Backlund unsuccessfully challenged AWA World Heavyweight Champion Rick Martel. He soon dropped out of the pro wrestling scene, but he made a surprise return in 1991 for Herb Abrams' short-lived Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF). At \"Beach Brawl\" (the UWF's only pay-per-view event), he defeated Ivan Koloff. Backlund also wrestled for Newborn UWF and UWF International in Japan, in a series of matches with Nobuhiko Takada. During his time away from the ring, he coached amateur wrestling at Bacon Academy and Rocky Hill High School in Connecticut.\n\nIn 1992, Backlund returned to the WWF. During his absence, the WWF had expanded into an international wrestling promotion, due in part to the colorful characters of the \"Rock 'n' Wrestling Connection Era\", which Hulk Hogan helped to kickstart eight years prior. Backlund, whose persona remained the same as it was in his heyday, seemed to be out of step with the evolution of the WWF. Many fans did not remember him, as he had left just prior to Vince McMahon's national expansion. His initial return to the WWF was largely uneventful and he mainly wrestled mid-card matches. However, at the 1993 Royal Rumble, Backlund, the number two entrant lasted sixty-one minutes and ten seconds, a duration record that stood until 2004, when Chris Benoit broke it. Backlund's first appearance at WrestleMania was the IX edition, where he was quickly pinned by Razor Ramon. Backlund also received several shots at the Intercontinental Championship, then held by Shawn Michaels.\n\nOn the July 30, 1994 episode of \"Superstars\", Backlund wrestled what was billed as an \"Old Generation vs. New Generation\" match with Bret Hart, with Hart's WWF World Heavyweight Championship on the line. Over the preceding weeks, the WWF aired vignettes of Backlund training for this match. Hart won the match, capitalizing after Backlund mistakenly believed he had won and helped Hart to his feet. Backlund \"snapped\" after Hart repeatedly tried to offer a sportsmanlike handshake following the match. He slapped Hart in the face and locked him in the crossface chickenwing submission hold, while screaming hysterically. After finally releasing the hold, Backlund stared at his hands in apparent shock. Backlund then started to regularly \"snap\" in similar fashion during his matches, viciously attacking his opponent with the crossface chickenwing and refusing to release it after the opponent submitted. He would then seemingly snap back to normal and appear horrified by what he had done.\n\nOn an episode of \"Monday Night Raw\", shortly after his match with Hart, Backlund claimed that he should still be considered the legitimate WWF World Heavyweight Champion, as he had not been pinned by The Iron Sheik, nor submitted to the camel clutch. Backlund continued wrestling under the new gimmick of an out of touch and highly volatile eccentric, out to teach \"The New Generation\" a lesson. He dressed in business suits (complete with a bow tie), had a hyperactive personality and used (and often misused, for comic effect) large words during his interviews. He demanded that he be addressed as Mr. Backlund, and he would only sign autographs for wrestling fans if they could recite the names of all of the United States Presidents in chronological order. On several instances, he assaulted wrestlers and other WWF employees and placed them in the crossface chickenwing. These victims include Jim Ross, Duke \"The Dumpster\" Droese, \"WWF Magazine\" writer Lou Gianfriddo, and his former manager Arnold Skaaland, who he blamed for costing him the WWF Heavyweight Championship in 1983.\n\nOn November 23, 1994, at the Survivor Series pay-per-view in San Antonio, Texas, Backlund faced Bret Hart in a special submission match for the WWF World Heavyweight Championship where the only way for a wrestler to win was to have the opponent's valet, like Arnold Skaaland did for Backlund over a decade earlier, stop the match by throwing a towel into the ring. Backlund began displaying a white towel that he claimed was the same one that was thrown into the ring the night he lost to The Iron Sheik. To serve as his second for the match, Backlund paired up with Owen Hart, the brother and chief rival of the reigning champion who had tried and failed multiple times that year to wrest the belt from Bret. \n\nLate in the match, as Backlund was locked in Hart's trademark Sharpshooter submission, Owen entered the ring and attacked Bret from behind to cause him to break the hold. Bret's cornerman for the match, Davey Boy Smith, chased Owen around the ring only to collide head first with the ring stairs. When Bret turned around to argue with his brother, Backlund took advantage and locked the crossface chickenwing on the champion. Hart fought the hold for an unprecedented eight-and-a-half minutes, but refused to give up. \n\nSince Smith was unconscious on the floor, he was unable to save Hart. Owen took advantage by picking up the pink and black towel Smith carried and, feigning concern for the well being of his brother, approached his father Stu and his mother Helen who were seated at ringside. As Backlund continued to cinch in the crossface chickenwing in the ring, Owen pleaded for his parents to stop the match. Stu refused, not trusting Owen's motives. Helen, however, did not want to see Bret risk further injury and she grabbed the towel and threw it into the ring. Backlund was awarded the championship and celebrated in the ring while Owen rejoiced in finally having cost his brother the championship. After the match, Backlund conducted a brief interview which he concluded by screaming how he felt \"like God\".\n\nBacklund's second reign as WWF World Heavyweight Champion was brief, as he lost the title three days later to Diesel at a non-televised show in Madison Square Garden, the site of many of Backlund's victories in the 1970s and 1980s. Diesel kicked Backlund in the stomach, hit him with a \"Jackknife Powerbomb\" and pinned him in eight seconds. For weeks afterwards, fans jeered Backlund with chants of \"Eight seconds! Eight seconds!\". In a 2005 interview for the \"Pro Wrestling Torch\", Kevin Nash (a.k.a. Diesel) recalled how Backlund sold his \"Jackknife Powerbomb\" by crawling up the aisleway, back to the dressing room area of the Garden. Nash said, \"He couldn't have put me over any stronger\". This match was the last time the WWF World Heavyweight Championship changed hands at a non-televised event, and aside from Money in the Bank cash-ins, this match remains the shortest WWF title match ever; in fact, it would be tied by Randy Orton cashing in his Money in the Bank contract on Daniel Bryan at the 2013 SummerSlam.\n\nAfter the title loss, Backlund wrestled progressively less often, never again reaching main event status. One of his final WWF matches was an \"I Quit\" match against Bret Hart at WrestleMania XI on April 2, 1995 which Backlund lost, even though he never actually said \"I quit\", instead screaming unintelligibly into the microphone, which special guest referee Roddy Piper seemed to interpret as \"I quit\".\n\nFollowing WrestleMania, the WWF ran an angle in which Backlund declared his candidacy for President of the United States. Several vignettes aired, featuring Backlund preaching socially conservative values, and one showed him campaigning at a beach. Backlund also confronted a Bill Clinton impersonator who was seated at ringside at the 1995 Survivor Series. This angle was quietly dropped before it reached a conclusion.\n\nFrom late 1996 to early 1997, Backlund joined forces with his old nemesis, The Iron Sheik, to manage The Sultan in the WWF. He left the WWF shortly after on April 20, where he managed The Sultan in his win over Flash Funk.\nIn 1999, Backlund appeared on an episode of \"Sunday Night Heat\" in a skit in which himself, The Iron Sheik, and Dominic Denucci gave comedic advice to Mankind before his WWF Championship match with The Rock.\n\nBacklund returned to the WWF in the 2000 Royal Rumble. After that, he briefly managed Intercontinental and European Champion Kurt Angle, and he taught his crossface chickenwing submission hold to Angle. Later on, Angle fired Backlund and locked him in that move, after discovering Backlund had booked him in a two-fall triple threat match against Chris Benoit and Chris Jericho (with both of his titles on the line) at WrestleMania 2000, where he ultimately lost both titles.\n\nAfter many references to Bob Backlund were made by Kevin Nash, he officially debuted in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) in January 2007, at the Final Resolution pay-per-view, judging the finals of the Paparazzi Championship Series (PCS) between Alex Shelley and Austin Starr. Given the tie breaking vote, Backlund launched a long explanation before declaring his decision a draw, and the match was restarted by PCS director Kevin Nash. After Shelley won the match, Starr pie-faced Backlund because he believed Backlund had cost him the match, at which Backlund responded by putting Starr in the crossface chickenwing.\n\nBacklund then began to make regular appearances on \"Impact!\". During this time, he was described as crazy and weird by commentators Don West and Mike Tenay, somewhat similar to the \"Mr. Backlund\" gimmick of his second WWF tenure.\n\nBacklund made his in-ring return at Slammiversary, where he defeated Alex Shelley. He then teamed with Jerry Lynn to lose to Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin (managed by Kevin Nash) at Victory Road. When TNA redesigned their website, Backlund's profile was removed, signaling the end of his run with the company.\n\nOn the 15th Anniversary episode of \"Raw\" on December 10, 2007, Backlund participated in the 15th Anniversary battle royal, along with 14 other wrestlers from \"Raw\"'s 15-year history. Backlund was eliminated from the match by Skinner.\n\nOn the July 9, 2012 episode of \"Raw\", after Heath Slater's match with Sin Cara, Slater issued a challenge to any \"past champion\" as part of a weekly series of Legend appearances. Backlund emerged from backstage to answer this challenge and, as Backlund entertained the crowd, Slater kicked him in the stomach and mocked him; Backlund responded by putting Slater in the crossface chickenwing, which he refused to break for 20 seconds after Slater had tapped out. He later appeared on \"Raw 1000\" with all of the other Legends who had faced Slater over prior weeks, helping Lita chase Slater back into the ring when he tried to run away from Lita and the APA.\n\nBacklund was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame on April 6, 2013 by his friend Maria Menounos, and was acknowledged onstage with the year's other inductees at WrestleMania 29.\n\nBacklund made an appearance on the October 7, 2013 episode of \"Raw\", unsuccessfully attempting to canvass votes in order to become the special guest referee for the WWE Championship match at Hell in a Cell; Shawn Michaels later won a public vote and was named as the special guest referee. However, Backlund did appear in a segment at Hell in a Cell together with The Prime Time Players, where they played \"WWE 2K14\". Since April 2014, he has served as an ambassador for WWE.\n\nOn the May 5, 2016 episode of \"SmackDown\", Backlund would be approached by Darren Young, who asked Backlund to be his life coach, at which Backlund agreed, vowing to \"Make Darren Young Great Again\". Over the next several months, various vignettes featuring Young and Backlund aired, with Backlund assuming the role of Young's life coach. In a \"life lesson\" segment on the July 4 episode of \"Raw\", Backlund approved of Young adopting his famous Crossface chickenwing. On the July 11 episode of \"Raw\", Young would win a battle royal to become the number one contender for the Intercontinental Championship. At Battleground, Young faced The Miz in a match that resulted in a double-countout after he applied the Crossface Chickenwing to Miz outside the ring to protect Backlund from Miz and Maryse. On July 19 at the 2016 WWE draft, Backlund and Young were drafted to \"Raw\". In early 2017, after Young got injured, Backlund ceased appearing on TV. On October 29, 2017, Young was released from WWE, ending the storyline. Backlund's profile on WWE.com was then moved to the Hall of Fame page shortly afterwards.\n\nBacklund's autobiography, \"The All-American Boy: Lessons and Stories on Life from Wrestling Legend Bob Backlund\", was released on September 18, 2015. The 352-page book, contributed to by Robert H. Miller, includes interviews with Roddy Piper, Ric Flair, The Iron Sheik and Vince McMahon.\n\nBacklund was a guest on MTV's \"Singled Out\", where he acted in sketches with hosts Jenny McCarthy and Chris Hardwick. He played the role of Friar Chuck, alongside Maria Menounos and John Waters, in the feature film comedy \"In the Land of Merry Misfits\". The film played at the 2007 Tribeca Film Festival, where Backlund appeared and signed autographs.\n\nBacklund and his wife, high school physical education teacher Corki, have a daughter named Carrie. They live in Glastonbury, Connecticut.\n\nIn 2000, Backlund unsuccessfully ran for a Congress seat from Connecticut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28823796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28823796", "title": "Bridgestone Guides", "text": "Bridgestone Guides\n\nThe Bridgestone Guides are independent guides to Irish food and hospitality sponsored by Bridgestone. Written and edited by John McKenna and his wife Sally, the guides have won André Simon, Glenfiddich and Slow Food awards. Prints include the \"Bridgestone Irish Food Guide\", The \"Bridgestone 100 Best Restaurants in Ireland 2011\" and The \"Bridgestone 100 Best Places to Stay in Ireland 2010\".\n\n"}
{"id": "805274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=805274", "title": "BugMeNot", "text": "BugMeNot\n\nBugMeNot is an internet service that provides usernames and passwords to let Internet users bypass mandatory free registration on websites. It was started in August 2003 by an anonymous person, later revealed to be Guy King, and allowed Internet users to access websites that have registration walls (for instance, that of \"The New York Times\") with the requirement of compulsory registration. This came in response to the increasing number of websites that request such registration, which many Internet users find to be an annoyance and a potential source of spam e-mail.\n\nBugMeNot allows users of their service to add new accounts for sites with free registration. It also encourages users to use disposable email address services to create such accounts. However, it does not allow them to add accounts for pay websites, as this could potentially lead to credit card fraud. BugMeNot also claims to remove accounts for any website requesting that they do not provide accounts for non-registered users.\n\nTo help make access to their service easier, BugMeNot hosts a bookmarklet that can be used with any browser to automatically find a usable account from their service. They also host extensions for the web browsers Mozilla Firefox (but not on Firefox quantum yet), Internet Explorer, and Google Chrome (the extensions were created by Eric Hamiter with Dmytri Kleiner and Dean Wilson, respectively). There are also implementations in the form of a BugMeNot Opera widget, or UserJS scripts along with buttons, which makes it fully browser-integrated. An Android application is also available.\n\nBugMeNot provides an option for site owners to block their site from the BugMeNot database, if they match one or more of the following criteria:\n\n\nNo option is provided for users to request removing a block if a site ceases to meet the blocking criteria or has never met them in the first place.\n\nSite blocking can be circumvented by BugMeNot users by publishing usernames and passwords under a similar, but different, domain name to which they apply. For example, the owners of the domain abc.def.com might request a block to be put in place, but this will not prevent users uploading access information under the name of def.abc.com. Since one domain owner cannot demand that another domain be blocked, the information remains and is accessible provided that BugMeNot users tacitly agree that def.abc.com in fact refers to abc.def.com. For example, Wikipedia logins are in the database under wikipedia.net because wikipedia.com and wikipedia.org have been banned under the first criteria.\n\nNearly a year after it was created BugMeNot was shut down temporarily by their service provider (at that time) HostGator. The site's creator claimed BugMeNot's host was pressured by websites to shut them down, though Hostgator claimed that the BugMeNot site was repeatedly crashing their servers.\n\nThe BugMeNot domain was transferred briefly to another hosting company, dissidenthosting.com, but before the site was set up, it began to redirect visitors to web pages belonging to racist groups, without the knowledge or consent of the site's owner. BugMeNot moved again, to NearlyFreeSpeech.NET. BugMeNot's move to this provider, which also hosts a number of highly controversial sites, prompted BugMeNot's creator to say, \"Personally, I don't care if I'm sharing a server with neo-Nazis. I might not agree with what they have to say, but the whole thing about freedom of speech is that people are free to speak.\"\n\nShortly after BugMeNot returned, reports surfaced that some news sites had begun to attempt to block accounts posted on BugMeNot, though the extent and effectiveness of such efforts, as well as compliance with BugMeNot's Terms of Use, are not known.\n\nThe operators of BugMeNot expanded the \"MeNot\" network in October, 2006 with the addition of RetailMeNot - a service for finding and sharing online coupon codes. Users can add coupons they have found through any method, as well as a description of the coupon and an expiration date. Users can also scan in printed coupons and upload them for others to print.\n\n"}
{"id": "48430963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48430963", "title": "Chambas Municipal Museum", "text": "Chambas Municipal Museum\n\nChambas Municipal Museum is a museum located in Chambas, Cuba. It was established on 29 December 1982.\n\nThe museum holds collections on archeology, history, ethnology and natural sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "19495707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19495707", "title": "Comparison of 3D computer graphics software", "text": "Comparison of 3D computer graphics software\n\n3D computer graphics software refers to programs used to create 3D computer-generated imagery.\nThis is a chart about notable software on basic comparative elements that is based on the raw software without the inclusion of additional plugins.\nThere are many discontinued software.\nThe operating systems on which the editors can run natively (without emulation or compatibility layers), meaning which operating systems have which editors specifically coded for them (not, for example, Wings 3D for Windows running on Linux with Wine).\n\n"}
{"id": "45279675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45279675", "title": "Cook Islands Shipping Co Ltd v Colson Builders Ltd", "text": "Cook Islands Shipping Co Ltd v Colson Builders Ltd\n\nCook Islands Shipping Co Ltd v Colson Builders Ltd [1975] 1 NZLR 422 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding performance of an existing contractual duty to a promisor in economic duress. This case reinforces the English case of Stilk v Myrick (1809) 2 Camp 317; 170 ER 1168\n\nIn 1971, Colson Builders were building a new hangar for Air New Zealand in Rarotonga in the Cook Islands. For the build, they needed 1,800 tons of building materials to be shipped from Portland Oregon, consisting mainly of cement and steel.\n\nCIS quoted $4,463 for the shipping of the 158 tons of the steel required for the project, which CIS had quoted by using a \"deadweight\" basis. However, the steel for the project was prefabricated sections, which were far more bulky than plain flat steel, and so more onerous to the shipper, and so informed Colson that they would need to pay $13,265.39 for the freight.\n\nThe court held that the increased price was economic duress, and so not legally enforceable.\n"}
{"id": "52060241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52060241", "title": "Eric (robot)", "text": "Eric (robot)\n\nEric was the first British robot, built in 1928 by First World War veteran Captain William Richards, and aircraft engineer Alan Reffell. He was constructed to open the Exhibition of the Society of Model Engineers at London's Royal Horticultural Hall in 1928, after George VI (then the Duke of York) cancelled and an exasperated Richards, the exhibition's secretary, offered to \"make a man of tin\" to take the Duke's place. At the event's opening, Eric rose to his feet, bowed and gave a four-minute opening address.\n\nThe robot was operated by two people,\nand Eric's voice was received live by a radio signal, Richards claiming to be working under a license of the Marconi Company. Although able to sit and stand, Eric could not move his legs to walk. His chest bore the letters \"R.U.R.\", a reference to the robot manufacturer in Karel Čapek's 1920 play of the same name.\n\nFollowing his first appearance, Eric was taken on a US tour, introducing himself to an audience in New York in 1929 as \"Eric the robot, the man without a soul\". The \"New York Press\" described him as \"the perfect man\". Some time after this, Eric disappeared. Having researched Eric's story, Science Museum curator Ben Russell concluded that \"no-one quite knows what happened to him, whether he was blown-up or taken to pieces for spare parts\".\n\nIn 2016, the London Science Museum raised funds through a Kickstarter campaign to rebuild Eric, working from archive material including \"Illustrated London News\" photographs. Eric was added to the museum's permanent collection, and appeared as part of a 2017 robots exhibition.\n\nIn the 1930s, William Richards built a similar robot called \"George\", which toured the world including Germany and Australia. George could deliver speeches in French, German, Hindustani, Chinese and Danish. He cost almost £2,000 to build, compared to Eric's £140, and \"The Age\" newspaper described him as \"the educated gentleman, alongside his rough-hewn awkward brother\".\n"}
{"id": "8208878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8208878", "title": "FERT", "text": "FERT\n\nFERT (sometimes tripled, \"FERT, FERT, FERT\"), the motto of the royal house of Savoy-Sardinia and Italy, the House of Savoy, was adopted by King Vittorio Amedeo II (1666–1732).\n\nIt appeared for the first time on the collar of the Supreme Order of the Most Holy Annunciation, or \"Ordine Supremo della Santissima Annunziata\", the primary dynastic order of the kingdom. This ceased to be a national order when Italy became a republic in 1946. The order remains under the jurisdiction of the head of the House of Savoy, however, as hereditary Sovereign and Grand Master.\n\nThe meaning of the letters has been a matter of some controversy, to which a number of interpretations have been offered. The motto is believed an acronym of:\n\n\nIt has also been suggested that the letters are actually the Latin word \"\" (third-person singular present active indicative of \"ferre\"), meaning \"[he/she/it] suffers/bears\", possibly referring to Jesus bearing the sins of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "11839137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11839137", "title": "Friedrichswerder Church", "text": "Friedrichswerder Church\n\nFriedrichswerder Church (, ) was the first Neo-Gothic church built in Berlin, Germany. It was designed by an architect better known for his Neoclassical architecture, Karl Friedrich Schinkel, and was built under his direction, 1824-1831.\n\nThe building is maintained by the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation and is part of Berlin State Museums' ensemble. In late 2012, the building was closed indefinitely, owing to structural damage suffered from nearby building activity. Previously it held Berlin National Gallery's collection of nineteenth-century German sculpture, showing works of Johann Gottfried Schadow, Karl Friedrich Schinkel and Christian Daniel Rauch, among others. On the upper floor was an exhibition of the work and life of Karl Friedrich Schinkel. \nThese artworks have been removed and are not on display since.\n\n"}
{"id": "455400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455400", "title": "George Murdock", "text": "George Murdock\n\nGeorge Peter (\"Pete\") Murdock (May 11, 1897 – March 29, 1985), also known as G. P. Murdock, was an American anthropologist. He is remembered for his empirical approach to ethnological studies and his study of family and kinship structures across differing cultures.\n\nBorn in Meriden, Connecticut to a family that had farmed there for five generations, Murdock spent many childhood hours working on the family farm and acquired a wide knowledge of traditional, non-mechanized, farming methods. He graduated from Phillips Academy, Andover, in 1915 and earned a BA in American History at Yale University. He then attended Harvard Law School, but quit in his second year and took a long trip around the world. This trip, combined with his interest in traditional material culture, and perhaps a bit of inspiration from the popular Yale teacher A.G. Keller, prompted Murdock to study anthropology at Yale. Yale's anthropology program still maintained something of the evolutionary tradition of William Graham Sumner, a quite different emphasis from the historical particularism promulgated by Franz Boas at Columbia. In 1925, he received his doctorate and continued at Yale as a faculty member and chair of the anthropology department.\n\nEven in his earliest writings, Murdock's distinctive approach is apparent. He advocates an empirical approach to anthropology, through the compilation of data from independent cultures, and then testing hypotheses by subjecting the data to the appropriate statistical tests. He also sees himself as a social scientist rather than more narrowly as an anthropologist, and is in constant dialogue with researchers in other disciplines. At Yale, he assembled a team of colleagues and employees in an effort to create a cross-cultural data set.\n\nBelieving that a cross-cultural approach would help the U.S. war effort during World War II, Murdock and a few colleagues enlisted in the Navy and wrote handbooks on the cultures of Micronesia, working out of an office at Columbia University. After completing the handbooks, Murdock and his fellow officers were sent to the Pacific as military government officials, serving for nearly a year in the administration of occupied Okinawa. While his pre-war fieldwork had been among the Haida and other indigenous peoples of the Northwest North American coast, Murdock's interests were now focused on Micronesia, and he conducted fieldwork there episodically until the 1960s.\n\nMurdock joined the faculty of Yale University in 1928. His PhD from the institution was in the field of Sociology, as Yale at that time did not yet have a Department of Anthropology. Murdock taught courses in physical anthropology. In 1931, Yale established an anthropology department and hired Edward Sapir as the chairman. Murdock's sociological and positivist approach to anthropology was at odds with Sapir's Boasian approach to cultural anthropology. Following Sapir's death, Murdock served as chairman of the Department of Anthropology from 1938 until 1960, when he reached the then mandatory retirement age at Yale. However, he was offered the chair of Andrew Mellon Professor of Social Anthropology at the University of Pittsburgh. Leaving his long-time residence at 960 Ridge Road in Hamden, Connecticut, Murdock moved with his wife to 4150 Bigelow Boulevard in Pittsburgh. He taught at the University of Pittsburgh until his retirement in 1973, at which point he moved to the Philadelphia area to be close to his son.\n\nMurdock and his wife had one child, Robert Douglas Murdock. He was born in 1929 and died in 2011. Bob and Jean Murdock had three children, Nancy and Karen (born 1955) and Douglas (born 1959). \n\nFor Murdock's war service in World War II, the best source is his own account as published in \"A Twenty-Five Year Record: Yale College Class of 1919\", a class yearbook published in New Haven, Connecticut in 1946. These are Murdock's own recollections, as shared with his classmates in the class of 1919 at Yale: \n\nAccording to David H. Price, in a chapter entitled \"Hoover's Informer\", devoted to Murdock during McCarthyism, Murdock had secretly informed on AAA colleagues to J. Edgar Hoover. Murdock was particularly antagonistic of Boasian cultural anthropology, which he considered to be aligned with communist thought. Murdock was not the only person in his field or at his university to cooperate with intelligence agencies. For much of the 20th century, agencies such as the CIA and the FBI enjoyed a close relationship with American universities. Yale University was especially known (later) as a breeding ground for employees of the agencies. Researchers in anthropology and foreign relations were often debriefed after foreign field trips (see: Robin W. Winks, Cloak and Gown: Scholars in the Secret War, 1939–1961. New York: William Morrow, 1987). Murdock later served as chair of the American Anthropological Association's (AAA's) Committee on Scientific Freedom, established to defend anthropologists from unfair attacks.\n\nIn 1948, Murdock decided that his cross-cultural data set would be more valuable were it available to researchers at schools other than Yale. He approached the Social Science Research Council and obtained the funding to establish an inter-university organization, the Human Relations Area Files, with collections maintained at Yale University (Whiting 1986: 684).\n\nIn 1954, Murdock published a list of every known culture, the \"Outline of World Cultures\". In 1957, he published his first cross-cultural data set, the \"World Ethnographic Sample\", consisting of 565 cultures coded for 30 variables. In 1959, despite having no professional experience in Africa, Murdock published \"Africa: Its peoples and their culture history\", a very useful reference book on African ethnic groups which also broke new ground in the analysis of prehistory, especially the domestication of plants. There is also a list of his other major works:\n\nIn 1960, Murdock moved to the University of Pittsburgh, where he occupied the Andrew Mellon Chair of Anthropology. In 1971, he was instrumental in founding the Society For Cross-Cultural Research, a scholarly society composed primarily of anthropologists and psychologists (Whiting 1986: 685). Between 1962 and 1967, he published installments of his \"Ethnographic Atlas\" in the journal \"Ethnology\"—a data set eventually containing almost 1,200 cultures coded for over 100 variables. In 1969, together with Douglas R. White, he developed the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample, consisting of a carefully selected set of 186 well-documented cultures that today are coded for about 2000 variables (Whiting 1986: 685). At the end of his career, he felt \"no hesitation in rejecting the validity and utility of the entire body of anthropological theory, including the bulk of my own work...consigning it to the realm of mythology [not] science\" as in \"anthropology there's virtually no [...] consensus\" on \"the essential core of its body of theory.\"\n\nAfter his retirement from Pitt, Murdock moved to the Philadelphia area to be close to his son and grandchildren. He is buried in a military cemetery, Valley Forge Memorial Gardens, 352 South Gulph Road, King of Prussia, PA.\n\nIn 1962, Murdock founded \"Ethnology\" An International Journal of Cultural and Social Anthropology, published by the University of Pittsburgh. Publication ended in 2012 owing to a lack of interest from the faculty of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Pittsburgh. Journal staff was released shortly thereafter, and offices were permanently repurposed.\n\nMurdock is known most of all for his main sequence theory whose gist was spelled out by him initially as follows: \"When any social system which has attained equilibrium begins to change, such change regularly begins with modification of the rule of residence. Alteration in residence rules is followed by development or change in form of descent consistent with residence rules. Finally adaptive changes in kinship terminology follow (Murdock 1949:221-222).\"\n\n\n\nCHRONOLOGICAL LISTING OF BOOKS AND ARTICLES:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2874344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2874344", "title": "Glossary of Japanese words of Portuguese origin", "text": "Glossary of Japanese words of Portuguese origin\n\nMany Japanese words of Portuguese origin entered the Japanese language when Portuguese Jesuit priests introduced Christian ideas, Western science, technology and new products to the Japanese during the Muromachi period (15th and 16th centuries). \n\nThe Portuguese were the first Europeans to reach Japan and the first to establish direct trade between Japan and Europe, in 1542. During the 16th and 17th century, Portuguese Jesuits had undertaken a great work of Catechism, that ended only with religious persecution in the early Edo period (Tokugawa Shogunate). The Portuguese were the first to translate Japanese to a Western language, in the \"Nippo Jisho\" dictionary (, literally the \"Japanese-Portuguese Dictionary\") or \"Vocabulario da Lingoa de Iapam\" compiled by Portuguese Jesuit João Rodrigues, and published in Nagasaki in 1603, who also wrote a grammar \"Arte da Lingoa de Iapam\" . The dictionary of Japanese-Portuguese explained 32,000 Japanese words translated into Portuguese. Most of these words refer to the products and customs that first came to Japan via the Portuguese traders.\n\nMany of the first words which were introduced and entered the Japanese language from Portuguese and Dutch are written in \"kanji\" or \"hiragana,\" rather than \"katakana\", which is the more common way to write loanwords in Japanese in modern times. \"Kanji\" versions of the words are \"ateji\", characters that are \"fitted\" or \"applied\" to the words by the Japanese, based on either the pronunciation or the meaning of the word.\n\nThe † indicates the word is archaic and no longer in use.\n\nIt is often suggested that the Japanese word \"arigatō\" derives from the Portuguese \"obrigado\", both of which mean \"Thank you\", but evidence clearly indicates a purely Japanese origin. The Japanese phrase \"arigatō gozaimasu\" is a polite form of \"arigatō\". This is a form of an adjective, \"arigatai\", for which written records exist dating back to the \"Man'yōshū\" compiled circa 759 AD, well before Japanese contact with Portugal. \n\nThe full derivation is \"arigatō\", the “u” sound change of \"arigataku\" < \"arigataku\", the attributive form of arigatai, < \"arigatai\" < \"arigatashi\" < \"ari\" + \"katashi\". \"Ari\" is a verb meaning \"to be\" and \"katashi\" is an adjective meaning \"difficult\". The original meaning of \"arigatashi\" was \"difficult to be\", i.e. that the listener's generosity or behavior is \"rare\" and thus \"special\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50012785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50012785", "title": "Gyeonggi Museum of Art", "text": "Gyeonggi Museum of Art\n\nThe Gyeonggi Museum of Art, located in Ansan, South Korea, opened in 2006, endeavors to observe, reflect and foster contemporary art in a regional and national scale in order to enrich the local community's cultural experience.\n\n\n268, Dongsan-ro, Danwon-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do\n경기도 안산시 단원구 동산로 268 (초지동)\n\n"}
{"id": "31403234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31403234", "title": "Hostile prejudice", "text": "Hostile prejudice\n\nHostile prejudice is the outward expression of hate for people of a different race, religion, ideology, country, sex, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Anyone who goes against specific criteria of dress, cultural or moral beliefs, or religious or political ideologies are subject to hostile racism. This racism often leads to direct discrimination to anyone who does not fit the prejudiced person's idea of a \"normal\" person. This behavior is most prevalent when there are noticeable differences between ingroups and outgroups, with the outgroup members experiencing hostile prejudice from ingroup members.\n\nMost research done on hostile prejudice has been done on hostile sexism. Peter Glick and Susan Fiske, along with several other colleagues, did a study on hostile and benevolent sexism across cultures. Glick and his colleagues found that hostile sexism and benevolent sexism are consistent notions that have a positive relationship to each other across nations. Women and men are viewed by hostile sexism as opposites in that women try to control men by domesticated means (e.g., marriage, demands for attention, and material possessions), forcing men to attempt to hang on to their independence and keep their masculinity. Glick and colleagues found that, if sexism in a culture is high overall, then women will tend to reject hostile sexism over benevolent sexism when it comes to men. They also found that, based on national averages on hostile sexism and benevolent sexism, predictions can be made regarding gender inequality across nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "54306680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54306680", "title": "Indonesian Small Islands Directory", "text": "Indonesian Small Islands Directory\n\nIndonesian Small Islands Directory (Direktori Pulau-pulau Kecil Indonesia) is a web directory that lists small islands of Indonesia.\n\nEstablished by 2007 Law 27 (Undang-Undang 27 Tahun 2007), it covers islands up to area of 2,000 km and their surrounding marine ecosystem.\n\nThe directory is managed by Direktorat Pendayagunaan Pulau-Pulau Kecil, Direktorat Jenderal Pengelolaan Ruang Laut, Kementerian Kelautan dan Perikanan, Republik Indonesia.\n\nThe database also is important in quantifying the long term task of verifying how many islands exist in Indonesia. \n\nDifficulties in ascertaining information about the smaller islands of the Indonesian archipelago has been a serious long term issue - and the database is part of governmental efforts to verify and determine the issue. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26351512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26351512", "title": "Irish genealogy", "text": "Irish genealogy\n\nIrish genealogy is the study of individuals and/or families who originated on the island of Ireland.\n\nGenealogy was cultivated since at least the start of the early Irish historic era. Upon inauguration, Bards and poets are believed to have recited the ancestry of an inaugurated king to emphasise his hereditary right to rule. With the transition to written culture, oral history was preserved in the monastic settlements. Dáibhí Ó Cróinín believed that Gaelic genealogies came to be written down with or soon after the practise of annalistic records, annals been kept by monks to determine the yearly chronology of feast days (see Irish annals).\n\nIts cultivation reached a height during the Late Medieval Era with works such as \"Leabhar Ua Maine\", \"Senchus fer n-Alban\", \"Book of Ballymote\", \"De Shíl Chonairi Móir\", \"Book of Leinster\", \"Leabhar Cloinne Maoil Ruanaidh\" and the \"Ó Cléirigh Book of Genealogies\". This tradition of scholarship reached its zenith with \"Leabhar na nGenealach\", composed mainly between 1649–1650 in Galway.\n\nGenealogy had at first served a purely serious purpose in determining the legal rights of related individuals to land and goods. Under Fenechas, ownership of land was determined by Agnatic succession, female ownership being severely limited.\n\nOver time, genealogy was pursued for its own merits by the Gaelic learned classes. From c. 1100, various families such as Ó Cléirigh, Mac Fhirbhisigh, Ó Duibhgeannáin, Mac Aodhagáin and Mac an Bhaird became professional historians. They were often employed by ruling families, the most important of whom included Ó Conchobhair, Ó Neill, Ó Domhnaill, Ó Cellaigh, Mac Murchadha Caomhánach, Mac Carthaigh, Ó Briain, Ó Mael Sechlainn, Mac Giolla Padraig. It also became pervasive among the Anglo-Irish, with the recording of the family trees of FitzGerald, Butler, Burke, Plunkett, Nugent, Bermingham and others.\n\nSome clans, such as Mac Fhirbhisigh and Ó Duibhgeannáin were originally hereditary ecclesiastical families, while others (Ó Cléirigh, Mac an Bhaird, Ó Domhnallain) were dispossessed royalty who were forced to find another profession (see also Irish medical families).\n\nThe transmission of this body of lore (\"seanchas\") has resulted in detailed knowledge on the origins and history of many of the tribes and families of Ireland. An anglicised tradition has continued since the 17th-century, translating many of the scripts into English. The practise of genealogy continues to be of importance among the Irish and its diaspora. Historians (such as Dáibhí Ó Cróinín and Nollaig Ó Muraíle) consider the Irish genealogical tradition to have the largest national corpus in Europe.\n\nOver the course of several centuries, an evolving genealogical dogma created by the bardic viewed all Irish as descendants of Míl Espáine. This ignored variant traditions, including those recorded in their own works. The reasons behind the doctrine's adoption is rooted in the policies of dynastic and political propaganda.\n\nThe doctrine dates from the 10th–12th centuries, as demonstrated in the works of Eochaid ua Flainn (936–1004); Flann Mainistrech (died 25 November 1056); Tanaide (died c. 1075); and Gilla Cómáin mac Gilla Samthainde (fl. 1072). Many of their compositions were incorporated into the compendium Lebor Gabála Érenn.\n\nIt was enhanced and embedded in the tradition by successive generations of historians such as Seán Mór Ó Dubhagáin (d.1372), Gilla Íosa MacFhirbhisigh (fl. 1390–1418) and Flann Mac Aodhagáin (alive 1640). By 1600 it was refined to the point that certain Anglo-Irish families were given spurious Gaelic ancestors and origin legends, such was their immersion in Gaelic culture.\n\nThe first Irish historian who questioned the reliability of such accounts was Dubhaltach Mac Fhirbhisigh (murdered 1671), whose massive Leabhar na nGenealach included disparate and variant recensions. Unlike Geoffrey Keating \"Foras Feasa ar Éirinn\", he did not attempt to synthesise the material into a unified whole, instead recording and transmitting it unaltered. However, historians as late as such as Eugene O'Curry (1794–1862) and John O'Donovan (1806–1861) sometimes accepted the doctrine and a nationalistic interpretation of Irish history uncritically. During the 20th century the doctrine was reinterpreted by the work of historians such as Eoin MacNeill, T. F. O'Rahilly, Francis John Byrne, Kathleen Hughes (historian), and Kenneth Nicholls.\n\nSee also O'Rahilly's historical model, Genetic history of Europe, Genetic history of the British Isles.\n\nThe following are manuscripts consisting of genealogies in whole or part.\n\n\n\n\nSee also:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1092026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1092026", "title": "Jane's Information Group", "text": "Jane's Information Group\n\nJane's Information Group (often referred to as Jane's) is a British publishing company specialising in military, aerospace and transportation topics. It was acquired in 2007 by IHS Inc., and its open-source intelligence databases and publications continue to be produced under the IHS Jane's and IHS brands.\n\nJane's was founded in 1898 by Fred T. Jane who had begun sketching ships as an enthusiast naval artist while living in Portsmouth. This gradually developed into an encyclopaedic knowledge, culminating in the publishing of \"All the World's Fighting Ships\" (1898). The company then gradually branched out into other arenas of military expertise. The books and trade magazines published by the company are often considered the \"de facto\" public source of information on warfare and transportation systems.\n\nBased in London for most of its existence, Jane's Information Group was acquired by IHS Inc. in June 2007, having previously been owned by The Woodbridge Company and before that the Thomson Corporation for a number of years. Major periodical competitors include \"Defense News\", \"Flight International\", \"Aviation Week & Space Technology\" and the Shephard Group. The company continues to provide open-source intelligence in the defence, security, aerospace and transportation sectors.\n\n\"(annual)\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42113681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42113681", "title": "Jean Blackwell Hutson", "text": "Jean Blackwell Hutson\n\nJean Blackwell Hutson (born Jean Blackwell; September 7, 1914 – February 4, 1998 was an African-American librarian, archivist, writer, curator, educator, and later chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture.\n\nJean Blackwell Hutson was born in Sommerfield, Florida and moved to Baltimore, Maryland with her mother in 1918. She graduated valedictorian from Frederic Douglass High School in 1929.   Jean continued her education at the University of Michigan, studying psychiatry, and transferred to Barnard College, where she graduated with an English degree, Bachelor of Arts in 1935. In 1936, Ms. Hutson received her Master's degree in Library Science from Columbia University. She also acquired her teaching certificate from Columbia University in 1941. \n\nMs. Hutson was married twice, to Andy Razaf 1939-1947 and John Hutson 1952-1957. She had a daughter, Jean Frances Hutson. \n\nThrough the social and cultural prejudices against people of color and women, common at the time, Jean Blackwell Hutson made great gains in her professional career. From 1936 to 1984, she worked at multiple branches of the New York Public Library system, with a brief period as a school librarian at Paul Lawrence Dunbar High School in Baltimore, Maryland. Her most notable professional position was as curator and chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture during which time she developed the Schomburg Dictionary Catalog. The collection at the Schomburg Center grew under her guidance to become, \"a major source for research on Black history and culture\". \n\nWith a personal invitation from Kwame Nkrumah, Hutson was asked to assist in Ghana with the development and creation of the African Collection. She took the opportunity to move to Ghana and spent the years of 1964-1965 at the University at Ghana. \n\nHutson retired in 1980 but still remained active. She was still actively involved in organizations such as Information Science in the 1980s. She served on the Task Force on Library and Information Services to Cultural Minorities of the National Commission on Libraries. During her retirement she wrote a chapter on the Schomburg Center in Black Bibliophiles and Collectors: Preservers of Black History.\n\nDuring Hutson's lifetime, she was involved in many different civic, social, professional and cultural organizations. She was a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, the NAACP, the American Library Association, the African Studies Association and the Urban League. Throughout her lifetime she received numerous awards. In 1966, Hutson received the Annual Heritage Award of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History and 1974 , she received Black Heroes Memorial Award for Outstanding Community Service Commemorating the Lives of Malcolm. Additional awards received are as follows: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn February 4, 1998, Jean Blackwell Hutson died at Harlem Hospital in New York City at age 83.\n"}
{"id": "8342322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8342322", "title": "Johnstown Magazine", "text": "Johnstown Magazine\n\nJohnstown Magazine is a monthly magazine describing events and activities in the Johnstown, Pennsylvania and surrounding area. The magazine began in April 2005. The magazine is published by Community Newspaper Holdings based in Birmingham, Alabama.\n\n"}
{"id": "11826951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11826951", "title": "La terrazza", "text": "La terrazza\n\nLa terrazza is a 1980 Italian drama film directed by Ettore Scola. The all-star cast features the best of Italian Cinema of its era: Marcello Mastroianni, Ugo Tognazzi, Vittorio Gassman, Jean-Louis Trintignant, Serge Reggiani, Stefano Satta Flores, Stefania Sandrelli, Carla Gravina, Ombretta Colli, Milena Vukotic.\n\nThe film director Ettore Scola and the screen writer Agenore Incrocci make cameo appearances.\n\nOn a terrace in Rome, a group of Italian communist politicians and intellectuals have a party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33704311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33704311", "title": "List of Aramaic acronyms", "text": "List of Aramaic acronyms\n\nThis is a list of Jewish Babylonian Aramaic and Jewish Palestinian Aramaic acronyms.\n\nThis list is far from complete; you can help by expanding it.\n\nThe entries in each section are sorted according to the Hebrew alphabet. Prefixes indicating prepositions and articles (such as ב, ד, ה, ש, כ) have been removed, with the following exceptions: \n\nSome abbreviations included here are actually gematria (Hebrew numeronyms), but the number is so closely associated with some noun that it is grammatically used as a noun and is synonymous with it, for example ב\"ן, Ban. Other abbreviations contain a variable gematria component alongside other words, like the chapter references פי\"א perek yud-alef (chapter 11) or פ\"ט perek tet (chapter 9). Rather than list separate entries for every possible gematria, or use only one number for an example, the gematria component is replaced with [x] to produce (for example) [x]\"פ.\n\nSome Hebrew acronyms are not included here; they may be found in the List of Hebrew acronyms.\n\nMany of the abbreviations here are similar or identical to corresponding Hebrew acronyms. In fact, a work written in Aramaic may have Hebrew acronyms interspersed throughout (ex. Talmud, Midrash), much as a Hebrew work may borrow from Aramaic (ex. Tanya).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51387589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51387589", "title": "List of Guggenheim Museums", "text": "List of Guggenheim Museums\n\nThe Guggenheim Museums are a group of museums in different parts of the world established (or proposed to be established) by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation.\n\nMuseums in this group include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28697936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28697936", "title": "List of art reference books", "text": "List of art reference books\n\nThis is a list of out-of-copyright books and journals about art and artists, available online to read or download. Includes the visual arts, such as painting, engraving, sculpture etc., only.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26565495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26565495", "title": "List of early-modern journals", "text": "List of early-modern journals\n\nThe list of early-modern journals gives an overview of periodicals (newspapers are excluded) for the period from the first printed books to 1800. The list includes periodical publications such as catalogues and some works which appeared in a longer time frame, such as the \"Theatrum Europaeum\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46232992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46232992", "title": "List of far-right political parties", "text": "List of far-right political parties\n\nThe following is a list of far-right political parties and movements. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33486779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33486779", "title": "Lists of film archives", "text": "Lists of film archives\n\nThis is a list of film archives and cinematheques. Film archives collect, restore, investigate and conserve audiovisual content like films, documentaries, television programs and newsreel footage. Often, every country has its own film archive to preserve the national audiovisual heritage. The International Federation of Film Archives comprises more than 150 institutions in over 77 countries and the Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques is an affiliation of 44 European national and regional film archives founded in 1991.\n\nEuropean Film Gateway provides quick and easy access to hundreds of thousands of film historical documents as preserved in European film archives and cinémathèques: photos, posters, programmes, periodicals, censorship documents, rare feature and documentary films, newsreels and other materials. It is still a beta version and provides access to about 30 film archives.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1109441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1109441", "title": "Monogram", "text": "Monogram\n\nA monogram is a motif made by overlapping or combining two or more letters or other graphemes to form one symbol. Monograms are often made by combining the initials of an individual or a company, used as recognizable symbols or logos. A series of uncombined initials is properly referred to as a cypher (e.g. a royal cypher) and is not a monogram.\n\nMonograms first appeared on coins, as early as 350BC. The earliest known examples are of the names of Greek cities which issued the coins, often the first two letters of the city's name. For example, the monogram of Achaea consisted of the letters alpha (Α) and chi (Χ) joined together.\n\nMonograms have been used as signatures by artists and craftsmen on paintings, sculptures and pieces of furniture, especially when guilds enforced measures against unauthorized participation in the trade. A famous example of a monogram serving as an artist's signature is the \"AD\" used by Albrecht Dürer.\n\nOver the centuries, monograms of the name of Jesus Christ have been used as Christian symbols. The IX monogram consists of the initial Greek letters of the name \"Jesus Christ,\" \"I\" for Ιησούς, (Jesus in Greek) and \"X\" for Χριστος (Christ in Greek). The \"IHS\" Christogram, denoting the first three letters of the Greek name of Jesus, is usually written as a cypher, but sometimes as a monogram. Perhaps the most significant Christogram is the Chi Rho, formed from the first two letters of Χριστος.\n\nSignum manus (sometimes also known as \"Chrismon\") refers to the medieval practice, current from the Merovingian period until the 14th century in the Frankish Empire and its successors, of signing a document or charter with a special type of monogram or royal cypher.\nMonograms of the names of monarchs are used as part of the insignia of public organizations in kingdoms, such as on police badges. This indicates a connection to the ruler. However, the royal cypher, so familiar on pillar boxes, is not technically a monogram, since the letters are not combined.\n\nRoyal monograms often appear on coins, frequently surmounted by a crown. Countries that have employed this device in the past include Bulgaria, Great Britain, Russia, Sweden and many German states. Today, several Danish coins carry the monogram of Margrethe II, while the current Norwegian 1 Krone coin has the \"H5\" monogram of Harald V on the obverse. The only countries using the Euro to have a royal monogram as their national identifying mark are Belgium and Monaco. In Thailand, royal monograms appear on the individual flag for each major royal family member. \nAn individual's monogram is often a very fancy piece of art used for stationery, for adorning luggage, for embroidery on clothing, and so forth. These monograms may have two or three letters.\n\nA basic 3-letter monogram has the initial of the individual's last name (surname) set larger, or with some special treatment in the center, while the first name initial appears to the left of it and the middle name initial appears to the right of it. There is a difference in how this is written for men and women. For example, if the individual's name is Mary Ann Jones, and Jones is the surname, then the arrangement of letters would be thus: MJA, with the surname initial set larger in the center, the M for Mary to the left and the A for Ann to the right. Traditionally, individual monograms for men are based on the order of the name. The name Kyle George Martin would be written (KGM).\n\nMarried or engaged couples may use two-letter monograms of their entwined initials, for example on wedding invitations. Married couples may also create three-letter monograms incorporating the initial of their shared surname. For example, the monogram MJA might be used for Michael and Alice Jones. However, monogramming etiquette for the married couple varies according to the item being monogrammed. Linens, for example, typically list the woman's given initial first, followed by the couple's shared surname initial and then the man's given initial (AJM).\n\nMonograms can often be found on custom dress shirts where they can be located in a number of different positions.\n\nSome personal monograms have become famous symbols in their own right and instantly recognizable to many, such as J.R.R. Tolkien's monogram.\n\nSome companies and organizations adopt a monogram for a logo, usually with the letters of their acronym. For example, as well as having an official seal, and the Texas Longhorns logo, the University of Texas at Austin uses a \"UT\" monogram (in the same color as the Longhorns logo, burnt orange). The New York Yankees baseball team also uses a monogram on their ball cap insignia. The Consolidated Edison logo, with a rounded \"E\" nested inside a \"C,\" has been described as a \"classic emblem.\"\n\nMany fashion companies have a monogram for a logo, including Louis Vuitton and Fendi. The connected \"CC\" company logo, created by Coco Chanel, is one of the most recognizable monograms internationally.\n\nAthletes have also been known to brand merchandise with their monogram logo; notably Tiger Woods and Roger Federer.\nA notable example of a royal monogram is the H7 monogram of King Haakon VII of Norway. While in exile during World War II, Haakon VII spearheaded the Norwegian resistance to the German occupation, and H7 became a symbol used by the Norwegian populace to mark solidarity and loyalty to the King, and adherence to the Norwegian resistance movement. The act of drawing or creating a H7 symbol in German-occupied Norway was punishable by imprisonment.\n\nSimilarly, during World War II in Poland, the \"PW\" monogram was used as a resistance symbol, known as \"The Anchor\", or Kotwica due to its characteristic shape. Its meaning varied, as the initials were useful for many different slogans, such as \"Poland Fights\", \"Warsaw Uprising\", \"Polish Army\" and others. Like the Norwegian example above, its use was punished by the Nazi occupation authorities.\n\nA Japanese rebus monogram is a monogram in a particular style, which spells a name via a rebus, as a form of Japanese wordplay or visual pun. Today they are most often seen in corporate logos or product logos.\n\n"}
{"id": "39246074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39246074", "title": "Museum of Serbs of Croatia", "text": "Museum of Serbs of Croatia\n\nMuseum of Serbs of Croatia (, ) was a public museum in Zagreb, which was specialized in history of Serbs of Croatia. Museum existed from 1946 till 1963 when it became part of Croatian History Museum. Today, part of the material is kept in Museum of Metropolitanate of Zagreb and Ljubljana, part in Prosvjeta, some in Museum of Croatian History and part of them were destroyed in mining of Museum of Metropolitanate of Zagreb and Ljubljana on 11 April 1992 during War in Croatia. In 2009, on 65 anniversary of Prosvjeta, organization has launched an initiative for restoration of museum work.\n\nDuring the World War II group of Croatian museum professionals collected some number of artifacts from churches and monasteries of Serbian Orthodox Church in Independent State of Croatia that escaped Ustaše destruction, and stored them in Museum of Arts and Crafts. After the end of war in 1946, on initiative of Main Board of Serbs in Croatia and Prosvjeta, from material from these collection and added non-religious materials, was established Museum of Serbs of Croatia as part of Museum of Arts and Crafts. In early in 1948 it became part of Museum of Croatian History. Since 1963 museum as division was annexed to Museum of Croatian History and after few years that division were dissolved.\n\nThe museum collection was divided into five halls:\n\n"}
{"id": "4934593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4934593", "title": "Nanjung Ilgi", "text": "Nanjung Ilgi\n\nNanjung Ilgi or War Diary of Yi Sun-sin is the personal diary of Admiral Yi Sun-sin (Hangul: 이순신, Hanja: 李舜臣), a Korean naval commander who lived during the Joseon Dynasty. It was written between January 1, 1592 and November 17, 1598, a first person narrative of the admiral's perspective on the Japanese invasions of Korea in the late 16th century.\n\nIt is the 76th national treasure of Korea and listed in UNESCO's Memory of the World registry.\n\nThe original \"Nanjung Ilgi\" consists of 205 folio pages divided into 7 volumes. Entries detail the admiral's daily life in a military camp, his strategies, his naval campaigns, the names and dispositions of various military officers and civil officials with whom Admiral Yi interacted, geographic and atmospheric details, and his personal observations and commentary on the events and circumstances of his military command. These entries are not continuous: there are breaks in the narrative throughout the diary, representative of periods of time in which Admiral Yi was unable to maintain daily entries. There is also some overlap between Volumes 5 and 6, where Admiral Yi apparently later revised earlier entries.\n\nVolume 1 consists of 27 folio pages, covering the entries from the 1st of 5th moon 1592 to the 22nd of 3rd moon 1593.\n\nVolume 2 consists of 30 folio pages, covering the entries from the 1st day of 5th moon 1593 to the 15th day of 9th moon 1593.\n\nVolume 2 consists of 50 folio pages, covering the entries from the 1st day of 1st moon 1594 to the 28th day of 11th moon 1594.\n\nVolume 4 consists of 41 folio pages, covering the entries from the 1st day of 1st moon 1596 to the 11th day of 10th moon 1596.\n\nVolume 5 consists of 27 folio pages, covering the entries from the 1st day of 4th moon 1597 to the 8th day of 10th moon 1597.\n\nVolume 6 consists of 20 folio pages, covering the entries from the 4th day of 8th moon 1597 to the 4th day of 1st moon 1598.\n\nVolume 7 consists of 8 folio pages, covering the entries from the 15th day of 9th moon 1598 to the 7th day of 10th moon 1598.\n\n"}
{"id": "57037979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57037979", "title": "Open Eye Gallery", "text": "Open Eye Gallery\n\nOpen Eye Gallery is a photography gallery and archive in Liverpool, UK that was established in 1977. It is housed in a purpose-built building on the waterfront at Mann Island, its fourth location.\n\nOpen Eye Gallery comprises an exhibition space on one floor and an archive space on another, and has large-scale graphic art installations on its external facade. It is the only gallery dedicated to photography and related media in North West England. It is a non-profit organisation and a registered charity.\n\nOpen Eye Gallery first opened in Whitechapel, Liverpool (1977–1988); then Bold Street (1989–1995); then Wood Street (1996–2011); and finally Mann Island (2011–present). Its current building was purpose-built.\n\nLorenzo Fusi was appointed its artistic director in 2013. Sarah Fisher replaced him as executive director in 2015.\n\n\nOpen Eye Gallery has a \"considerable archive\" of predominantly portraiture and documentary photography. \"Formed in 1980, the Open Eye Archive is made up of the work of more than 100 photographers and comprises around 1600 prints.\"\n\nSignificant bodies of work are held by Bert Hardy (\"Chinese Hostel\" (1942) and \"Is There a British Colour Bar?\" (1949)), Edith Tudor-Hart, Tom Wood, Chris Steele-Perkins (\"The Pleasure Principle\"), Michelle Sank (\"The Water’s Edge\"), and John McDonald.\n\nWork is also held by John Davies, Gabriele Basilico, Vanley Burke, Bruce Gilden, E. Chambré Hardman, Peter Kennard, Mari Mahr, Peter Marlow, Joel Meyerowitz, Simon Norfolk, Martin Parr, Ewen Spencer, Ed van der Elsken, John Edwards), Ian Beesley, Steve Conlan, Philippe Conti, Will Curwen, Paul Fazackerley, Steve Hale, Sean Halligan, Thurston Hopkins, Greg Leach, Peter Hagerty, Harry Hammond, Derek Massey, Neil McDowall, Rob Meighen, Paul O’Donnell, Caroline Penn, Michael Robinson, Ludwig Schirmer, Samantha Seneviratne, Patrick Shanahan, John Stoddart, Wolfgang Suschitsky, Jan Svenungsson, Ali Taptik, Sandy Volz, Wojtek Wilczyk, Rob Williams, and David Reid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20015427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20015427", "title": "Origins of Judaism", "text": "Origins of Judaism\n\nThe origins of Judaism lie in the Bronze Age amidst polytheistic ancient Semitic religions, specifically Canaanite religion, co-existing with a syncretization with elements of Babylonian religion and of the worship of Yahweh reflected in the early prophetic books of the Hebrew Bible. During the Iron Age I, the Israelite religion became distinct from other Canaanite religions due to the unique monolatristic (proto-monotheistic) worship of Yahweh.\n\nDuring the Babylonian captivity of the 6th and 5th centuries BCE (Iron Age II), certain circles within the exiled Judahites in Babylon refined pre-existing ideas about monotheism, election, divine law and Covenant into a strict monotheistic theology which came to dominate the former Kingdom of Judah in the following centuries.\n\nFrom the 5th century BCE until 70 CE, Israelite religion developed into the various theological schools of Second Temple Judaism, besides Hellenistic Judaism in the diaspora. Second Temple eschatology was significantly influenced by Zoroastrianism. The text of the Hebrew Bible was redacted into its extant form in this period and possibly also canonized as well.\n\nRabbinic Judaism developed during Late Antiquity, during the 3rd to 6th centuries CE; the Masoretic Text of the Hebrew Bible and the Talmud were compiled in this period. The oldest manuscripts of the Masoretic tradition come from the 10th and 11th centuries CE; in the form of the Aleppo Codex of the later portions of the 10th century CE and the Leningrad Codex dated to 1008–1009 CE. Due largely to censoring and the burning of manuscripts in medieval Europe the oldest existing manuscripts of various rabbinical works are quite late. The oldest surviving complete manuscript copy of the Babylonian Talmud is dated to 1342 CE.\n\nJudaism has its origins in the Iron Age Kingdom of Judah and in Second Temple Judaism. It has three essential and related elements: study of the written Torah (the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy); the recognition of Israel (defined as the descendants of Abraham through his grandson Jacob) as a people elected by God as recipients of the law at Mount Sinai, his chosen people; and the requirement that Israel live in accordance with God's laws as given in the Torah.\n\nThe Iron Age kingdoms of Israel (or Samaria) and Judah first appear in the 9th century BCE. The two kingdoms shared Yahweh as their national god, for which reason their religion is commonly called Yahwism. Neighbouring kingdoms of the time each had their own national gods: Chemosh was the god of Moab, Moloch the god of the Ammonites, Qaus the god of the Edomites, and so on, and in each kingdom the king was his god's viceroy on Earth. The various national gods were more or less equal, reflecting the fact that kingdoms themselves were more or less equal, and within each kingdom a divine couple, made up of the national god and his consort – Yahweh and the goddess Asherah in Israel and Judah – headed a pantheon of lesser gods.\n\nBy the late 8th century both Judah and Israel had become vassals of Assyria, bound by treaties of loyalty on one side and protection on the other. Israel rebelled and was destroyed c. 722 BCE, and refugees from the former kingdom fled to Judah, bringing with them the tradition that Yahweh, already known in Judah, was not merely the most important of the gods, but the only god who should be served. This outlook was taken up by the Judahite landowning elite, who became extremely powerful in court circles in the next century when they placed the eight-year-old Josiah (reigned 641–609 BC) on the throne. During Josiah's reign Assyrian power suddenly collapsed, and a pro-independence movement took power promoting both the independence of Judah from foreign overlords and loyalty to Yahweh as the sole god of Israel. With Josiah's support the \"Yahweh-alone\" movement launched a full-scale reform of worship, including a covenant (i.e., treaty) between Judah and Yahweh, replacing that between Judah and Assyria.\n\nBy the time this occurred, Yahweh had already been absorbing or superceding the positive characteristics of the other gods and goddesses of the pantheon, a process of appropriation that was an essential step in the subsequent emergence of one of Judaism's most notable features, its uncompromising monotheism. The people of ancient Israel and Judah, however, were not followers of Judaism: they were practitioners of a polytheistic culture worshiping multiple gods, concerned with fertility and local shrines and legends, and not with a written Torah, elaborate laws governing ritual purity, or an exclusive covenant and national god.\n\nIn 586 BCE Jerusalem was destroyed by the Babylonians, and the Judean elite – royal family, the priests, the scribes and other members of the elite – were taken to Babylon in captivity. They represented only a minority of the population, and Judah, after recovering from the immediate impact of war, continued to have a life not much different from what had gone before. In 539 BCE Babylon fell to the Persians and the Babylonian exile ended and a number of the exiles, but by no means all and probably a minority, returned to Jerusalem. They were the descendants of the original exiles, and had never lived in Judah; nevertheless, in the view of the authors of the Biblical literature, they, and not those who had remained in the land, were \"Israel\". Judah, now called Yehud, was a Persian province, and the returnees, with their Persian connections in Babylon, were in control of it. They represented also the descendants of the old \"Yahweh-alone\" movement, but the religion they instituted was significantly different from both monarchic Yahwism and modern Judaism. These differences include new concepts of priesthood, a new focus on written law and thus on scripture, and a concern with preserving purity by prohibiting intermarriage outside the community of this new \"Israel\". \n\nThe Yahweh-alone party returned to Jerusalem after the Persian conquest of Babylon and became the ruling elite of Yehud. Much of the Hebrew Bible was assembled, revised and edited by them in the 5th century BCE, including the Torah (the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy), the historical works, and much of the prophetic and Wisdom literature. The Bible narrates the discovery of a legal book in the Temple in the seventh century BCE, which the majority of scholars see as some form of Deuteronomy and regard as pivotal to the development of the scripture. The growing collection of scriptures was translated into Greek in the Hellenistic period by the Jews of the Egyptian diaspora, while the Babylonian Jews produced the court tales of the Book of Daniel (chapters 1–6 of Daniel – chapters 7–12 were a later addition), and the books of Tobit and Esther.\n\nOther scholars contend that the development of a strict monotheism was the result of cultural diffusion between Persians and Hebrews. While (in practice) dualistic, Zoroastrianism believed in eschatological monotheism (i.e. only one god in the end). Some suggest that it is not merely coincidence that Zoroastrianism's model of eschatological monotheism and the Deuteronomic historians' strictly monotheistic model receive formative articulations during the period after Persia overthrew Babylon.\n\nSecond Temple Judaism was divided into theological factions, notably the Pharisees and the Sadducees, besides numerous smaller sects such as the Essenes, messianic movements such as Early Christianity, and closely related traditions such as Samaritanism (which gives us the Samaritan Pentateuch, an important witness of the text of the Torah independent of the Masoretic Text).\n\nDuring the 2nd to 1st centuries BCE, when Judea was under Seleucid and then Roman rule, the genre of apocalyptic literature became popular, the most notable work in this tradition being the Book of Daniel.\n\nFor centuries, the traditional understanding has been that Judaism came before Christianity and that Christianity separated from Judaism some time after the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE. Starting in the latter half of the 20th century, some scholars have begun to argue that the historical picture is quite a bit more complicated than that. In the 1st century, many Jewish sects existed in competition with each other, see Second Temple Judaism. The sects which eventually became Rabbinic Judaism and Early Christianity were but two of these. Some scholars have begun to propose a model which envisions a twin birth of Christianity and Judaism rather than a separation of the former from the latter. For example, Robert Goldenberg (2002) asserts that it is increasingly accepted among scholars that \"at the end of the 1st century CE there were not yet two separate religions called \"Judaism\" and \"Christianity\"\".\nDaniel Boyarin (2002) proposes a revised understanding of the interactions between nascent Christianity and nascent Rabbinical Judaism in Late Antiquity which views the two religions as intensely and complexly intertwined throughout this period.\n\nThe Amoraim were the Jewish scholars of Late Antiquity who codified and commented upon the law and the biblical texts. The final phase of redaction of the Talmud into its final form took place during the 6th century CE, by the scholars known as the Savoraim. This phase concludes the Chazal era foundational to Rabbinical Judaism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226691", "title": "Publication", "text": "Publication\n\nTo publish is to make content available to the general public. While specific use of the term may vary among countries, it is usually applied to text, images, or other audio-visual content, including paper (newspapers, magazines, catalogs, etc.). The word publication means the act of publishing, and also refers to any printed copies.\n\n\"Publication\" is a technical term in legal contexts and especially important in copyright legislation. An author of a work generally is the initial owner of the copyright on the work. One of the copyrights granted to the author of a work is the exclusive right to publish the work.\n\nIn the United States, publication is defined as:\n\nGenerally, the right to publish a work is an exclusive right of copyright owner (), and violating this right (e.g. by disseminating copies of the work without the copyright owner's consent) is a copyright infringement (), and the copyright owner can demand (by suing in court) that e.g. copies distributed against his will be confiscated and destroyed (). Exceptions and limitations are written into copyright law, however; for example, the exclusive rights of the copyright owner eventually expire, and even when in force, they don't extend to publications covered by fair use or certain types of uses by libraries and educational institutions.\n\nThe definition of \"publication\" as \"distribution of copies to the general public with the consent of the author\" is also supported by the Berne Convention, which makes mention of \"copies\" in article 3(3), where \"published works\" are defined. In the Universal Copyright Convention, \"publication\" is defined in article VI as \"the reproduction in tangible form and the general distribution to the public of copies of a work from which it can be read or otherwise visually perceived.\" Many countries around the world follow this definition, although some make some exceptions for particular kinds of works. In Germany, §6 of the \"Urheberrechtsgesetz\" additionally considers works of the visual arts (such as sculptures) \"published\" if they have been made permanently accessible by the general public (i.e., erecting a sculpture on public grounds is publication in Germany). Australia and the UK (as the U.S.) do not have this exception and generally require the distribution of copies necessary for publication. In the case of sculptures, the copies must be even three-dimensional.\n\nIn biological classification (taxonomy), the \"publication\" of the description of a taxon has to comply with some rules. The definition of the \"publication\" is defined in nomenclature codes. Traditionally there were the following rules:\n\nElectronic publication with some restrictions is permitted for publication of scientific names of fungi since 1 January 2013.\n\nThere is an enormous variety of material types of publication, some of which are:\n\n Electronic publishing (also referred to as e-publishing or digital publishing or online publishing) includes the digital publication of e-books, digital magazines, and the development of digital libraries and catalogues. Electronic publishing has become common. It is also becoming common to distribute books, magazines, and newspapers to consumers through digital devices, by online sources.\n\nTypes of publication can also be distinguished by content:\n\nA work that has not undergone publication, and thus is not generally available to the public, or for citation in scholarly or legal contexts, is called an unpublished work. In some cases unpublished works are widely cited, or circulated via informal means. An author who has not yet published a work may also be referred to as being unpublished.\n\nThe status of being unpublished has specific significance in the legal context, where it may refer to the non-publication of legal opinions in the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "3879555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3879555", "title": "Robert A. Heinlein bibliography", "text": "Robert A. Heinlein bibliography\n\nThe science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein (1907–1988) was productive during a writing career that spanned the last 49 years of his life; the Robert A. Heinlein bibliography includes 32 novels, 59 short stories and 16 collections published during his life. Four films, two TV series, several episodes of a radio series, and a board game derive more or less directly from his work. He wrote a screenplay for one of the films. Heinlein edited an anthology of other writers' SF short stories.\n\nThree non-fiction books and two poems have been published posthumously. has been published posthumously and another, an unusual collaboration, was published in 2006. Four collections have been published posthumously.\n\nHeinlein's fictional works can be found in the library under PS3515.E288, or under Dewey 813.54. Known pseudonyms include Anson MacDonald (7 times), Lyle Monroe (7), John Riverside (1), Caleb Saunders (1), and Simon York (1). All the works originally attributed to MacDonald, Saunders, Riverside and York, and many of the works originally attributed to Lyle Monroe, were later reissued in various Heinlein collections and attributed to Heinlein.\n\nNovels marked with an asterisk * are the Scribner's \"juvenile\" series.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll the works initially attributed to Anson MacDonald, Caleb Saunders, John Riverside and Simon York, and many of the works attributed to Lyle Monroe, were later reissued in various Heinlein collections and attributed to Heinlein.\n\nAt Heinlein's insistence, the three Lyle Monroe stories marked with the symbol '§' were never reissued in a Heinlein anthology during his lifetime.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14939539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14939539", "title": "Rock in China", "text": "Rock in China\n\n\"For the music genre please see Chinese rock\"\n\nRock in China is a website dedicated to the documenting and archiving of contemporary Chinese music, ranging from rock music to punk, metal, electro, jazz and hiphop. It was founded in 2004, and in 2006 became a wiki. The website currently runs on MediaWiki and Semantic MediaWiki.\n\nIn April 2004, Rock in China started as subsection named Metal in China at the Painkiller Heavy Music Magazine.\n\nIn December 2006, Rock in China opens a wiki.\n\nFebruary 2007: RiC collaborates with Last.fm and starts its own non-commercial promotion label, getting bands such as Hang on the Box, Tookoo, No Name, Blood Funk and The Fuck'ndrolls to work with them.\n\nSeptember 2007: The founders of RiC are invited to the China Calling in Berlin 2007 and the German Popkomm 2007.\n\nApril 2008: Rock in China becomes a media partner of the German Esplanade.\n\nOctober 2008: Rock in China becomes a media partner of the 20th anniversary of the Goethe-Institut.\n\nNovember 2008: Rock in China started a cooperation with the Institute of Sinology at the University of Heidelberg.\n\nSince 2008, Rock in China has been an official partner of the Midi Music Festival, China's largest rock music festival, and has helped to prepare their English-language websites.\n\nIn November 2012, Rock in China rolled out Semantic Mediawiki and connected their database to the Open Linked Data Cloud featuring over 50000 data triplets. The same month the page also extended their service to Music-China.org and included non-rock music specific content, including Chinese Opera, classical music of China and Cantopop/Mandopop.\n\nIn March 2013, Music-China.org started an academic online project with the aim to map the complete history of Chinese music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13747410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13747410", "title": "Russian State Archive of Contemporary History", "text": "Russian State Archive of Contemporary History\n\nThe Russian State Archive of Contemporary History (RGANI) () is a large Russian state archive managed by Rosarkhiv, which preserves post-1952 documents of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It was established in 1999 as the successor to the Center for Preservation of Contemporary Documentation (TsKhSD, ), which acquired current records of the Communist Party nationalized after the failure of the Soviet coup attempt in 1991. A very large percentage of its files are still classified and many others are still difficult to access. In 1992 Soviet dissident Vladimir Bukovsky worked in the archive and secretly scanned copies of some documents. Pre-1952 documents of the CPSU are collected in the Russian State Archive of Socio-Political History.\n\n"}
{"id": "1110903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110903", "title": "Tail call", "text": "Tail call\n\nIn computer science, a tail call is a subroutine call performed as the final action of a procedure. If a tail call might lead to the same subroutine being called again later in the call chain, the subroutine is said to be tail-recursive, which is a special case of recursion. Tail recursion (or tail-end recursion) is particularly useful, and often easy to handle in implementations.\n\nTail calls can be implemented without adding a new stack frame to the call stack. Most of the frame of the current procedure is no longer needed, and can be replaced by the frame of the tail call, modified as appropriate (similar to overlay for processes, but for function calls). The program can then jump to the called subroutine. Producing such code instead of a standard call sequence is called tail call elimination. Tail call elimination allows procedure calls in tail position to be implemented as efficiently as goto statements, thus allowing efficient structured programming. In the words of Guy L. Steele, \"in general, procedure calls may be usefully thought of as GOTO statements which also pass parameters, and can be uniformly coded as [machine code] JUMP instructions.\"\n\nNot all programming languages require tail call elimination. However, in functional programming languages, tail call elimination is often guaranteed by the language standard, allowing tail recursion to use a similar amount of memory as an equivalent loop. The special case of tail recursive calls, when a function calls itself, may be more amenable to call elimination than general tail calls. When the language semantics do not explicitly support general tail calls, a compiler can often still optimize sibling calls, or tail calls to functions which take and return the same types as the caller.\n\nWhen a function is called, the computer must \"remember\" the place it was called from, the \"return address\", so that it can return to that location with the result once the call is complete. Typically, this information is saved on the call stack, a simple list of return locations in order of the times that the call locations they describe were reached. For tail calls, there is no need to remember the caller – instead, tail call elimination leaves the stack alone (except possibly for function arguments and local variables,) and the newly-called function will return directly to the \"original\" caller. The tail call doesn't have to appear lexically after all other statements in the source code; it is only important that the calling function return immediately after the tail call, returning the tail call's result if any, since the calling function will never get a chance to do anything after the call if the optimization is performed.\n\nFor non-recursive function calls, this is usually an optimization that saves only a little time and space, since there are not that many different functions available to call. When dealing with recursive or mutually recursive functions where recursion happens through tail calls, however, the stack space and the number of returns saved can grow to be very significant, since a function can call itself, directly or indirectly, creating a new call stack frame each time. Tail call elimination often asymptotically reduces stack space requirements from linear, or O(n), to constant, or O(1). Tail call elimination is thus required by the standard definitions of some programming languages, such as Scheme, and languages in the ML family among others. The Scheme language definition formalizes the intuitive notion of tail position exactly, by specifying which syntactic forms allow having results in tail context. Implementations allowing an unlimited number of tail calls to be active at the same moment, thanks to tail call elimination, can also be called 'properly tail-recursive'.\n\nBesides space and execution efficiency, tail call elimination is important in the functional programming idiom known as continuation-passing style (CPS), which would otherwise quickly run out of stack space.\n\nA tail call can be located just before the syntactical end of a subroutine:\n\nHere, both codice_1 and codice_2 are calls, but codice_3 is the last thing the procedure executes before returning and is thus in tail position. However, not all tail calls are necessarily located at the syntactical end of a subroutine:\nHere, both calls to codice_3 and codice_5 are in tail position. This is because each of them lies in the end of if-branch respectively, even though the first one is not syntactically at the end of codice_6's body.\n\nIn this code:\n\nthe call to codice_1 is in tail position in codice_8, but it is not in tail position either in codice_9 or in codice_10, because control must return to the caller to allow it to inspect or modify the return value before returning it.\n\nThe following program is an example in Scheme:\n\nThis is not written in a tail recursion style, because the multiplication function (\"*\") is in the tail position. This can be compared to:\n\nThis program assumes applicative-order evaluation. The inner procedure codice_11 calls itself \"last\" in the control flow. This allows an interpreter or compiler to reorganize the execution which would ordinarily look like this:\n\ninto the more efficient variant, in terms of both space and time:\n\nThis reorganization saves space because no state except for the calling function's address needs to be saved, either on the stack or on the heap, and the call stack frame for codice_11 is reused for the intermediate results storage. This also means that the programmer need not worry about running out of stack or heap space for extremely deep recursions. In typical implementations, the tail recursive variant will be substantially faster than the other variant, but only by a constant factor.\n\nSome programmers working in functional languages will rewrite recursive code to be tail-recursive so they can take advantage of this feature. This often requires addition of an \"accumulator\" argument (codice_13 in the above example) to the function. In some cases (such as filtering lists) and in some languages, full tail recursion may require a function that was previously purely functional to be written such that it mutates references stored in other variables.\n\nTail recursion modulo cons is a generalization of tail recursion optimization introduced by David H. D. Warren in the context of compilation of Prolog, seen as an \"explicitly\" \"set once\" language. It was described (though not named) by Daniel P. Friedman and David S. Wise in 1974 as a LISP compilation technique. As the name suggests, it applies when the only operation left to perform after a recursive call is to prepend a known value in front of a list returned from it (or to perform a constant number of simple data-constructing operations, in general). This call would thus be a \"tail call\" save for (\"modulo\") the said \"cons\" operation. But prefixing a value at the start of a list \"on exit\" from a recursive call is the same as appending this value at the end of the growing list \"on entry\" into the recursive call, thus building the list as a side effect, as if in an implicit accumulator parameter. The following Prolog fragment illustrates the concept: \nThus in tail recursive translation such a call is transformed into first creating a new list node and setting its codice_14 field, and \"then\" making a tail call with the pointer to the node's codice_15 field as argument, to be filled recursively.\n\nThe following fragment defines a recursive function in C that duplicates a linked list:\nIn this form the function is not tail-recursive, because control returns to the caller after the recursive call duplicates the rest of the input list. Even if it were to allocate the \"head\" node before duplicating the rest, it would still need to plug in the result of the recursive call into the codice_16 field \"after\" the call. \nSo the function is \"almost\" tail-recursive. Warren's method pushes the responsibility of filling the codice_16 field into the recursive call itself, which thus becomes tail call:\n\n(A sentinel head node is used to simplify the code.) The callee now appends to the end of the growing list, rather than have the caller prepend to the beginning of the returned list. The work is now done on the way \"forward\" from the list's start, \"before\" the recursive call which then proceeds further, instead of \"backward\" from the list's end, \"after\" the recursive call has returned its result. It is thus similar to the accumulating parameter technique, turning a recursive computation into an iterative one.\n\nCharacteristically for this technique, a parent frame is created on the execution call stack, which the tail-recursive callee which can reuse as its own call frame if the tail-call optimization is present.\n\nThe tail-recursive implementation can now be converted into an explicitly iterative form, as an accumulating loop:\nIn a paper delivered to the ACM conference in Seattle in 1977, Guy L. Steele summarized the debate over the GOTO and structured programming, and observed that procedure calls in the tail position of a procedure can be best treated as a direct transfer of control to the called procedure, typically eliminating unnecessary stack manipulation operations. Since such \"tail calls\" are very common in Lisp, a language where procedure calls are ubiquitous, this form of optimization considerably reduces the cost of a procedure call compared to other implementations. Steele argued that poorly implemented procedure calls had led to an artificial perception that the GOTO was cheap compared to the procedure call. Steele further argued that \"in general procedure calls may be usefully thought of as GOTO statements which also pass parameters, and can be uniformly coded as [machine code] JUMP instructions\", with the machine code stack manipulation instructions \"considered an optimization (rather than vice versa!)\". Steele cited evidence that well optimized numerical algorithms in Lisp could execute faster than code produced by then-available commercial Fortran compilers because the cost of a procedure call in Lisp was much lower. In Scheme, a Lisp dialect developed by Steele with Gerald Jay Sussman, tail call elimination is guaranteed to be implemented in any interpreter.\n\nTail recursion is important to some high-level languages, especially functional and logic languages and members of the Lisp family. In these languages, tail recursion is the most commonly used way (and sometimes the only way available) of implementing iteration. The language specification of Scheme requires that tail calls are to be optimized so as not to grow the stack. Tail calls can be made explicitly in Perl, with a variant of the \"goto\" statement that takes a function name: codice_18\n\nHowever, for language implementations which store function arguments and local variables on a call stack (which is the default implementation for many languages, at least on systems with a hardware stack, such as the x86), implementing generalized tail call optimization presents an issue: if the size of the callee's activation record is different from that of the caller, then additional cleanup or resizing of the stack frame may be required. For these cases, optimizing tail recursion remains trivial, but general tail call optimization may be harder to implement efficiently.\n\nFor example, in the Java virtual machine (JVM), tail-recursive calls can be eliminated (as this reuses the existing call stack), but general tail calls cannot be (as this changes the call stack). As a result, functional languages such as Scala that target the JVM can efficiently implement direct tail recursion, but not mutual tail recursion.\n\nThe GCC, LLVM/Clang, and Intel compiler suites perform tail call optimization for C and other languages at higher optimization levels or when the codice_19 option is passed. Though the given language syntax may not explicitly support it, the compiler can make this optimization whenever it can determine that the return types for the caller and callee are equivalent, and that the argument types passed to both function are either the same, or require the same amount of total storage space on the call stack.\n\nVarious implementation methods are available.\n\nTail calls are often optimized by interpreters and compilers of functional programming and logic programming languages to more efficient forms of iteration. For example, Scheme programmers commonly express while loops as calls to procedures in tail position and rely on the Scheme compiler or interpreter to substitute the tail calls with more efficient jump instructions.\n\nFor compilers generating assembly directly, tail call elimination is easy: it suffices to replace a call opcode with a jump one, after fixing parameters on the stack.\nFrom a compiler's perspective, the first example above is initially translated into pseudo-assembly language (in fact, this is valid x86 assembly):\n\nTail call elimination replaces the last two lines with a single jump instruction:\n\nAfter subroutine codice_20 completes, it will then return directly to the return address of codice_21, omitting the unnecessary codice_22 statement.\n\nTypically, the subroutines being called need to be supplied with parameters. The generated code thus needs to make sure that the call frame for A is properly set up before jumping to the tail-called subroutine. For instance, on platforms where the call stack does not just contain the return address, but also the parameters for the subroutine, the compiler may need to emit instructions to adjust the call stack. On such a platform, for the code:\n(where codice_23 and codice_24 are parameters) a compiler might translate that as:\n\nA tail call optimizer could then change the code to:\n\nThis code is more efficient both in terms of execution speed and use of stack space.\n\nSince many Scheme compilers use C as an intermediate target code, the tail recursion must be encoded in C without growing the stack, even if the C compiler does not optimize tail calls. Many implementations achieve this by using a device known as a trampoline, a piece of code that repeatedly calls functions. All functions are entered via the trampoline. When a function has to tail-call another, instead of calling it directly and then returning the result, it returns the address of the function to be called and the call parameters back to the trampoline (from which it was called itself), and the trampoline takes care of calling this function next with the specified parameters. This ensures that the C stack does not grow and iteration can continue indefinitely.\n\nIt is possible to implement trampolines using higher-order functions in languages that support them, such as Groovy, Visual Basic .NET and C#.\n\nUsing a trampoline for all function calls is rather more expensive than the normal C function call, so at least one Scheme compiler, Chicken, uses a technique first described by Henry Baker from an unpublished suggestion by Andrew Appel, in which normal C calls are used but the stack size is checked before every call. When the stack reaches its maximum permitted size, objects on the stack are garbage-collected using the Cheney algorithm by moving all live data into a separate heap. Following this, the stack is unwound (\"popped\") and the program resumes from the state saved just before the garbage collection. Baker says \"Appel's method avoids making a large number of small trampoline bounces by occasionally jumping off the Empire State Building.\" The garbage collection ensures that mutual tail recursion can continue indefinitely. However, this approach requires that no C function call ever returns, since there is no guarantee that its caller's stack frame still exists; therefore, it involves a much more dramatic internal rewriting of the program code: continuation-passing style.\n\nTail recursion can be related to the \"while\" control flow operator by means of a transformation such as the following:\n\nThe above construct transforms to:\n\nIn the preceding, \"x\" may be a tuple involving more than one variable: if so, care must be taken in designing the assignment statement \"x\" ← bar(\"x\") so that dependencies are respected. One may need to introduce auxiliary variables or use a \"swap\" construct.\n\nMore general uses of tail recursion may be related to control flow operators such as break and continue, as in the following:\n\nwhere \"bar\" and \"baz\" are direct return calls, whereas \"quux\" and \"quuux\" involve a recursive tail call to \"foo\". A translation is given as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7752586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7752586", "title": "The Almanac of American History", "text": "The Almanac of American History\n\nThe Almanac of American History (1983) (revised edition 2004) is a reference work on American history in chronology format. Its general editor is Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., and the executive editor is John S. Bowman.\n\nSchlesinger wrote the introduction; in the current edition the introduction to each of the six sections is written by a different noted scholar:\n\n"}
{"id": "2162459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2162459", "title": "UCLA Phonological Segment Inventory Database", "text": "UCLA Phonological Segment Inventory Database\n\nThe UCLA Phonological Segment Inventory Database (or UPSID) is a statistical survey of the phoneme inventories in 451 of the world's languages. The database was created by American phonetician Ian Maddieson for the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1984 and has been updated several times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39129935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39129935", "title": "V&amp;A Rotunda Chandelier", "text": "V&amp;A Rotunda Chandelier\n\nThe V&A Rotunda Chandelier (often known as V&A Chandelier and originally called Ice Blue and Spring Green Chandelier) is a glass sculpture by Dale Chihuly. It hangs under the glass rotunda at the entrance to the Victoria and Albert Museum in South Kensington, London. Considered to be an artwork as much as a source of light, it was installed in 1999 and then substantially altered and enlarged to its current size in 2001, coinciding with a V&A exhibition of the artist's work. \n\nThe chandelier has dimensions of and is made of blown glass. The original name was \"Ice Blue and Spring Green Chandelier\". It was created with blue, green, and yellow glass composed of fused, relatively small swirling tendrils and sharp protruding edges that extend outward from every side. The top and the bottom are composed of a more rounded shape, while a smaller round arrangement of glass hangs in the middle. The top has a notable protrusion, mainly of light blue glass, which then develops into shades of yellow and green as the viewer's eye moves downwards.\n\nThe first chandelier was installed in 1999 and was more modest, however, Chihuly decided it needed to be bigger and enlarged it so that it now fills the central rotunda at the entrance to the museum. Commenting in \"The Daily Telegraph\", art critic Richard Dorment noted: \"The V&A chandelier isn't exactly 'finished' – Chihuly just stopped adding baubles and curlicues and wiggly bits to it. Because its shape is so amorphous, there is no aesthetic reason that I can see why the glass-maker should not continue to ornament the work for the rest of his life, or for as long as the laws of physics allow him to\".\nWhile referred to as a chandelier, technically this is a hanging sculpture, a concept Chihuly has favored throughout his career. His technique is to let the glass naturally shape itself. This approach, in combination with his use of vibrant colors, has been described by curator Tina Oldknow as creating: \"vessels that communicate a range of aesthetic experience from the ephemeral moods…to the highly emotional, transformational environments realized in large-scale installations\". \n\nLike most of Chihuly’s works, the chandelier does not light up on its own. In some instances, lights were placed on the piece after the fact or external spotlights were directed towards the structure to illuminate them.\n\nThe massive size of the chandelier and the delicate nature of the glass meant the museum had had to make special accommodations to house and maintain it. Before the chandelier could even be installed, the V&A had to reinforce the ceiling. Cleaning the chandelier requires specialist techniques. It is cleaned piece by piece by a technician on a raised platform. The technician moves slowly around the chandelier cleaning each individual spike and tendril of glass with an antistatic wand made of plastic filaments. This has to be carried out before the museum opens, a process that takes several days.\n\nThe critical response was generally positive, if somewhat uncertain. The \"London Evening Standard\" reported: \"Whether it attracts you or appals you, Chihuly’s work is certainly breathtaking\". Another critic, writing in a home-interest magazine, said: \"Wriggling like a large and glowing creature of the sea, this spectacularly weird glass chandelier…[is] the first time Dale’s work has been seen on this scale in the UK and he seems to gather a few more admirers as a result\".\n\nA duplicate of the 1999 version of the chandelier can be seen at Scotts Square, a shopping centre and residential complex in Singapore. As with the V&A Rotunda Chandelier, its location in the entrance atrium means natural light shines down onto the glass structure creating additional interplay of light.\n\n"}
{"id": "22683974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22683974", "title": "Versailles Orangerie", "text": "Versailles Orangerie\n\nThe Versailles Orangerie (French: L′Orangerie du Château de Versailles) was built by Jules Hardouin-Mansart between 1684 and 1686, replacing Le Vaus design from 1663 - that is to say, before work on the palace had even begun. It is an example of many such prestigious extensions of grand gardens in Europe designed both to shelter tender plants and impress visitors. In the winter, the Versailles Orangerie houses more than a thousand trees in boxes. Most are citrus trees, but there are many tender Mediterranean plants including oleanders, olive, pomegranate, and palm trees, totaling over 1,055 altogether. From May to October, they are put outdoors in the Parterre Bas.\n\nThe sweet orange (Citrus sinensis) was introduced to Europe by the fifteenth or sixteenth century. At first, they were an expensive food item. Medieval cookbooks tell exactly how many orange slices a visiting dignitary was entitled to. Citrus soon became the fashion of the nobility and rich merchants. By the sixteenth century, sweet oranges had become well-established and had assumed commercial importance in Europe.\n\nIn France, the first orangerie was built and stocked by Charles VIII of France at the Château of Amboise. There is general agreement that the arrival of the sweet orange in Europe was linked with the activities of the Portuguese during the fifteenth century, and particularly by Vasco de Gama's voyages to the East. Although the Romans had been acquainted with lemons and probably sour oranges as well as citrons, the different types - sour oranges, lemons and sweet oranges - reached Europe centuries apart. By withholding water and nutrients, and by using pruning techniques, French gardeners were able to make citrus trees bloom throughout the year, to the delight of Louis XIV. Citrus motifs formed themes in sculpture, mosaics, embroidery, weaving, paintings, poems, and songs throughout history, and orange blossoms remain prized as floral ornaments at weddings.\n\nThe central gallery is flanked by two side galleries located under the “Escaliers des Cent Marches”. The three galleries enclose the lower bed (\"parterre bas\"), also called the 'bed de l'orangerie'. The walls of these galleries are 4-5 meters thick (13-16 feet) and the central gallery is over 150 meters long (500 feet), facing south to optimize the natural warming effects of the sun. As a result a frost-free environment is maintained without the use of artificial heating year round.\n\nAt the center of the \"Parterre Bas\" is a large circular pool with a \"jet d'eau\" water feature, surrounded by formal lawns planted with topiary. From May to October, the orange trees and other trees are exposed in the lower bed. There are over 1,000 different containers altogether, with several Pomegranate (\"Punica granatum\"), Olive (\"Olea europea\"), and Orange (\"Citrus sinensis\") trees that are over 200 years old.\n\nOriginally completed in 1663, the Orangerie was intended to supply the much smaller hunting lodge of Versailles and the small retinue which Louis XIV would bring with him in the summer. In 1688, after the Court had officially relocated to Versailles, the Orangerie was enlarged by Jules Hardouin-Mansart. The pavilion that resulted was modelled on the theories of the horticulturalist Jean-Baptiste de la Quintinie, whose writings detailed a system for protecting exotic plants from the cold without the use of artificial heating. \n\nLouis XIV had a love for orange trees and had them potted in solid silver tubs and placed throughout the state rooms of the Palace to perfume the air. The Orangerie was intended to supply the palace with specimens and supply the Court with fruit year round. In 1664, a year after the first Orangerie was completed, Louis XIV's disgraced former Finance Minister Nicolas Fouquet was convicted of maladministration and his belongings confiscated by the Crown. These included over 1,000 orange trees from Vaux-le-Vicomte, which were transferred to the Orangerie.\n\nNumbering several thousand trees by the 1790s, the Orangerie was the largest of its kind in Europe and a major attraction for visiting diplomats and foreign royalty. In 1698 the British Ambassador to France, William Bentinck, 1st Earl of Portland, reported back to KingWilliam III that he had been taken to view the orange trees at Versailles, but compared them unfavorably to William's own collections in Holland.\n\nThe Versailles Orangerie is under the flowerbed known as \"parterre du midi\". Its central gallery is 155 metres in length, and its frontage is directed towards the south. The “Parterre Bas” is bordered on its south side by a balustrade overlooking the Saint-Cyr-l'École. This separates it from the Swiss Pond.\n"}
{"id": "23456152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23456152", "title": "WWE Encyclopedia: The definitive guide to World Wrestling Entertainment", "text": "WWE Encyclopedia: The definitive guide to World Wrestling Entertainment\n\nThe WWE Encyclopedia: The Definitive Guide to World Wrestling Entertainment is a reference book featuring in-depth knowledge surrounding the leading organization in professional wrestling, World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE).\n\nThe book covers the 45-year history of WWE and features a comprehensive A-Z listing of nearly 1,000 former and current wrestlers from as early as the 1960s to the present day. The book also contains official listings for title histories, television and pay-per-view events, most notably, a detailed history of WrestleMania.\n\nThe \"WWE Encyclopedia: The Definitive Guide to World Wrestling Entertainment\" contains profiles for past and present WWE personalities, as well as event and title histories. While providing information primarily about the personalities career in WWE, information is also present about their careers in other companies. People who portrayed separate characters are often given separate profiles for each character.\n\nPeople who left the company on bad terms were given favorable profiles, including Alundra Blayze and The Ultimate Warrior. Chris Benoit has a profile in the encyclopedia, however there is no mentioned of the double murder and suicide.\n\nBrian Shields and Kevin Sullivan (not the wrestler) created the book together. WWE was given final say over who would be included in the book. Overall, the book took over one year to create. Sullivan and Shields divided some of the work load, dividing the research for championship title histories in half.\n\nThe book debuted at No. 10 on \"The New York Times\" Hardcover Books Bestsellers List and climbed as high as No. 8.\n\nIt received mostly favorable reviews. Bob Kapur of SLAM! Wrestling was favorable toward the book, saying that it \"is just the ticket for fans looking for a trip down memory lane\". He praised the book for including lesser known personalities, but also criticized the absence of notable tag teams such as Doug Furnas and Phil LaFon. Simon Rothstein of \"The Sun\" stated, \"I cannot stress how much fun this book is to read\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1012978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1012978", "title": "Whetstone (benchmark)", "text": "Whetstone (benchmark)\n\nThe Whetstone benchmark is a synthetic benchmark for evaluating the performance of computers. It was first written in Algol 60 in 1972 at TSU (The Technical Support Unit of the Department of Trade and Industry - later part of the Central Computer and Telecommunications Agency or CCTA in the United Kingdom). It was derived from statistics on program behaviour gathered on the KDF9 computer at NPL National Physical Laboratory in the United Kingdom, using a modified version of its Whetstone ALGOL 60 compiler. The workload on the machine was represented as a set of frequencies of execution of the 124 instructions of the Whetstone Code. The Whetstone Compiler was built at the Atomic Power Division of the English Electric Company in Whetstone, Leicestershire, England, hence its name. Dr. B.A. Wichman at NPL produced a set of 42 simple ALGOL 60 statements, which in a suitable combination matched the execution statistics.\n\nTo make a more practical benchmark Harold Curnow of TSU wrote a program incorporating the 42 statements. This program worked in its ALGOL 60 version, but when translated into FORTRAN it was not executed correctly by the IBM optimizing compiler. Calculations whose results were not output were omitted. He then produced a set of program fragments which were more like real code and which collectively matched the original 124 Whetstone instructions. Timing this program gave a measure of the machine’s speed in thousands of Whetstone instructions per second (kWips) The Fortran version became the first general purpose benchmark that set industry standards of computer system performance. Further development was carried out by Roy Longbottom, also of TSU/CCTA, who became the official design authority. The ALGOL 60 program ran under the Whetstone compiler in July 2010, for the first time since the last KDF9 was shut down in 1980, but now executed by a KDF9 emulator.\n\nFollowing increased computer speeds, performance measurement was changed to Millions of Whetstone Instructions Per Second (MWIPS). The original results on numerous minicomputers, mainframes and supercomputers are available in Whetstone Benchmark History and Results. This also shows original system costs and year of manufacture. For comparison purposes, a summary of results on PCs is also provided, including a table showing the relative efficiency of various programming languages. Detailed results on PCs are also available, showing speeds of the different test functions.\n\nSource code and pre-compiled versions for PCs in C/C++, Basic, Visual Basic, Fortran and Java are available in Roy Longbottom's PC Benchmark Collection (Free). Compiled codes include those to run via DOS, OS/2 plus 32 bit and 64 bit Windows.\n\nWhen information from Roy Longbottom’s site is no longer available, the files, up to at least 2013, have been archived at British Library, with Whetstone Data being of particular significance.\n\nThe Whetstone benchmark primarily measures the floating-point arithmetic performance. A similar benchmark for integer and string operations is the Dhrystone.\n\n\n"}
