{"id": "35471671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35471671", "title": "Alexander Graham Bell National Historic Site", "text": "Alexander Graham Bell National Historic Site\n\nAlexander Graham Bell National Historic Site is a property in Baddeck, Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, Canada, overlooking the Bras d'Or Lakes. The site is a unit of the national park system, and includes the Alexander Graham Bell Museum, the only museum in the world containing the actual artifacts and documents from Bell's years of experimental work in Baddeck. This site was designated a National Historic Site in 1952. \n\nThe museum features artifacts donated in 1955 from the Bell family's personal museum, located in the Kite House at Beinn Bhreagh. The museum also features memorabilia associated with Bell's experiments, including: the original HD-4 hull of a hydrofoil boat that set the world speed record in Baddeck of over 70 MPH in 1919; a full-scale replica of that boat; the AEA Silver Dart which in 1909 J.A.D. MacCurdy piloted up into the air over the ice of Baddeck Bay to become the first heavier-than-air craft to be flown in Canada and possibly the British Empire -- plus many other exhibits and documents from Bell's years of research activities on the transmission of speech and sound by wire and by light, as well as his experiments with kites, planes and high speed boats. The museum also features displays relating to Bell's work with the deaf and how it led to the invention of the telephone.\n\nIn addition to its displays, the museum features an observation deck on the roof of the building which offers a view of Alexander Graham Bell's Beinn Bhreagh estate, across the Bay. Beinn Bhreagh is a separate National Historic Site, still owned and occupied by Bell descendants. The museum was designed by renowned British Architect O.Howard Leicester R.I.B.A. It is not in the national park system and not open to the public. For more, see Bras d'Or Lakes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "82482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82482", "title": "Ariadne", "text": "Ariadne\n\nAriadne (; ; ), in Greek mythology, was a Cretan princess. She is mostly associated with mazes and labyrinths because of her involvement in the myths of the Minotaur and Theseus.\n\nAriadne was the daughter of Minos—the King of Crete and a son of Zeus—and Pasiphaë—Minos' queen and a daughter of Helios. Others called her mother Crete, daughter of Asterius, husband-king of Europa. Ariadne was the sister of Acacallis, Androgeus, Deucalion, Phaedra, Glaucus, Xenodice and Catreus.\n\nMinos put Ariadne in charge of the labyrinth where sacrifices were made as part of reparations (either to Poseidon or to Athena, depending on the version of the myth); later, she helped Theseus overcome the Minotaur and save the potential sacrificial victims. In other stories, she became the bride of the god Dionysus, with the question of her being mortal or a goddess varying in those accounts.\n\nSince ancient Greek myths are passed down through oral tradition, many variations of this and other myths exist. According to an Athenian version of the legend, Minos attacked Athens after his son was killed there. The Athenians asked for terms, and were required to sacrifice seven young men and seven maidens to the Minotaur every seven or nine years. One year, the sacrificial party included Theseus, the son of King Aegeus, who volunteered to come and kill the Minotaur. Ariadne fell in love at first sight, and helped him by giving him a sword and a ball of thread (μίτο της Αριάδνης 'Ariadne's thread'), so that he could find his way out of the Minotaur's labyrinth.\n\nShe eloped with Theseus after he achieved his goal, but according to Homer \"he had no joy of her, for ere that, Artemis slew her in seagirt Dia because of the witness of Dionysus\" (\"Odyssey\" XI, 321-5). Most accounts claim that Ariadne was abandoned by Theseus, but in some versions she is mortally wounded by Perseus . Homer does not expand on the nature of Dionysus's accusation, but the \"Oxford Classical Dictionary\" speculates that she was already married to Dionysus when she ran away with Theseus.\n\nIn Hesiod and most other accounts, Theseus abandoned Ariadne sleeping on Naxos, and Dionysus rediscovered and wedded her. In a few versions of the myth, Dionysus appeared to Theseus as they sailed away from Crete, saying that he had chosen Ariadne as his wife and demanding that Theseus leave her on Naxos for him; this has the effect of absolving the Athenian culture-hero of desertion. The vase-painters of Athens often showed Athena leading Theseus from the sleeping Ariadne to his ship.\n\nWith Dionysus, she was the mother of Oenopion, the personification of wine, Staphylus (related to grapes), Thoas, Peparethus, Phanus, Eurymedon, Enyeus, Ceramus, Maron, Euanthes, Latramys and Tauropolis. Her wedding diadem was set in the heavens as the constellation Corona Borealis.\n\nAriadne remained faithful to Dionysus but was later killed by Perseus at Argos. In other myths she hanged herself from a tree, like Erigone and the hanging Artemis, a Mesopotamian theme. Some scholars have posited, due to her thread-spinning and winding associations, that she was a weaving goddess, like Arachne, supporting this theory with the mytheme of the Hanged Nymph (see weaving in mythology). Dionysus descended into Hades and brought her and his mother Semele back. They then joined the gods in Olympus.\n\nKarl Kerenyi and Robert Graves theorize that Ariadne (whose name they derive from Hesychius's listing of Άδνον, a Cretan-Greek form for \"arihagne\", \"utterly pure\") was a Great Goddess of Crete, \"the first divine personage of Greek mythology to be immediately recognized in Crete\", once archaeology had begun. Kerenyi observes that her name is merely an epithet and claims that she was originally the \"Mistress of the Labyrinth\", both a winding dance-ground and in the Greek view a prison with the dreaded Minotaur at its centre. Kerenyi notes a Linear B inscription from Knossos, \"to all the gods, honey... to the mistress of the labyrinth honey\" in equal amounts, suggesting to him that the Mistress of the Labyrinth was a Great Goddess in her own right. Professor Barry Powell has suggested she was Minoan Crete's Snake Goddess.\n\nPlutarch, in his \"vita\" of Theseus, which treats him as a historical individual, reports that in the Naxos of his day, an earthly Ariadne was separate from a celestial one:\nSome of the Naxians also have a story of their own, that there were two Minoses and two Ariadnes, one of whom, they say, was married to Dionysos in Naxos and bore him Staphylos and his brother, and the other, of a later time, having been carried off by Theseus and then abandoned by him, came to Naxos, accompanied by a nurse named Korkyne, whose tomb they show; and that this Ariadne also died there.\n\nIn a kylix by the painter Aison (c. 425 – c. 410 BCE) Theseus drags the Minotaur from a temple-like labyrinth, but the goddess who attends him, in this Attic representation, is Athena.\n\nAn ancient cult of Aphrodite-Ariadne was observed at Amathus, Cyprus, according to the obscure Hellenistic mythographer Paeon of Amathus; Paeon's works are lost, but his narrative is among the sources cited by Plutarch in his \"vita\" of Theseus (20.3-.5). According to the myth that was current at Amathus, the second most important Cypriote cult centre of Aphrodite, Theseus's ship was swept off course and the pregnant and suffering Ariadne put ashore in the storm. Theseus, attempting to secure the ship, was inadvertently swept out to sea, thus being absolved of abandonment. The Cypriote women cared for Ariadne, who died in childbirth and was memorialized in a shrine. Theseus, overcome with grief upon his return, left money for sacrifices to Ariadne and ordered two cult images, one of silver and one of bronze, set up. At the observation in her honour on the second day of the month Gorpiaeus, one of the young men lay on the ground vicariously experiencing the throes of labour. The sacred grove in which the shrine was located was called the grove of Aphrodite Ariadne.\n\nThe primitive aspect of the cult at Amathus in this account would appear to be much older than the Athenian-sanctioned shrine of Aphrodite, who has assumed \"Ariadne\" (\"hagne\", \"sacred\") as an epithet at Amathus.\n\nAriadne (Etruscan: Areatha) is paired with Dionysus (Etruscan: Fufluns) on engraved bronze Etruscan bronze mirrorbacks, where the Athenian culture-hero Theseus is absent, and Semele (Etruscan: Semla), as mother of Dionysus, may accompany the pair, lending a particularly Etruscan air of family authority.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45303194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45303194", "title": "ArtPassport", "text": "ArtPassport\n\nArtPassport is a free app for iOS. It provides 360º views of art exhibitions and can be connected to a virtual reality headset. It was chosen by TIME as one of the best 25 apps in the first five months of 2017, and was nominated for a Webby Award in 2018. The developers claimed that the app was downloaded 25,000 times in its first week on the App Store, where it received a rating of 2.5 stars out of 5.\n"}
{"id": "2620457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2620457", "title": "Baobhan sith", "text": "Baobhan sith\n\nA baobhan sith is a type of female vampire in the folklore of the Scottish Highlands, though they also share certain characteristics in common with the succubus and fairy. They appear as beautiful women who seduce their victims before attacking them and draining their blood.\n\nAccording to the Scottish folklorist Donald Alexander Mackenzie, the baobhan sith usually appears as a beautiful young woman wearing a long green dress that conceals the deer hooves she has instead of feet. Like other vampires she drinks the blood of human victims and will vanish with the rising sun. She may also take the form of a hooded crow or raven.\n\nThere are numerous stories about the baobhan sith with a general theme of hunters being attacked in the wilderness at night. In one tale recorded by Mackenzie, there were four men who went hunting and took shelter for the night in a lonely shieling or hut. One of the men supplied vocal music while the others began dancing. The men expressed a desire for partners to dance with, and soon after that four women entered the hut. Three of them danced while the fourth sat beside the vocalist. He then noticed drops of blood falling from his companions and fled from the hut, taking refuge among the horses. His vampiric partner chased him but was unable to catch him, and when daylight came she disappeared. The man went back inside and found all three of his friends dead and drained of blood. The folklorist Katharine Briggs suggested that the baobhan sith was unable to catch the fourth man among the horses because of the iron with which the horses were shod, iron being a traditional fairy vulnerability.\n\nIn a similar tale one of the men noticed that the women had deer hooves instead of feet and fled from them. He returned the next morning to find that the other hunters had their \"throats cut and chests laid open\".\n\nIn a third story the hunters took refuge in a cave. Each of the men said he wished his own sweetheart were there that night, but one of them, Macphee, who was accompanied by his black dog, said he preferred his wife to remain at home. At that moment some young women entered the cave, and the men who had wished for their sweethearts were killed. Macphee was protected by his dog who drove the women from the cave.\n\nOne recurring motif in these stories is that of the baobhan sith appearing almost immediately after the hunters express their desire for female companionship. This is connected with a traditional Scottish belief that if one were to make a wish at night without also invoking God's protection, then that wish would be granted in some terrible manner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46842956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46842956", "title": "Bekker numbering", "text": "Bekker numbering\n\nBekker numbering or Bekker pagination is the standard form of citation to the works of Aristotle. It is based on the page numbers used in the Prussian Academy of Sciences edition of the complete works of Aristotle and takes its name from the editor of that edition, the classical philologist August Immanuel Bekker (1785-1871); because the Academy was located in Berlin, the system is occasionally referred to by the alternative name Berlin numbering or Berlin pagination.\n\nBekker numbers consist of up to three ordered coordinates, or pieces of information: a number, the letter a or b, and another number, which refer respectively to the page number of Bekker's edition of the Greek text of Aristotle's works, the page column (a standard page of Bekker's edition has exactly two columns), and the line number (total lines typically ranging from 20-40 on a given column or page in Bekker's edition). For example, the Bekker number denoting the beginning of Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics is \"1094a1\", which corresponds to page 1094 of Bekker's edition, first column (column a), line 1.\n\nAll modern editions or translations of Aristotle intended for scholarly readers use Bekker numbers, in addition to or instead of page numbers. Contemporary scholars writing on Aristotle use the Bekker number so that the author's citations can be checked by readers without having to use the same edition or translation that the author used.\n\nWhile Bekker numbers are the dominant method used to refer to the works of Aristotle, Catholic or Thomist scholars often use the medieval method of reference by book, chapter, and sentence, albeit generally in addition to Bekker numbers.\n\nStephanus pagination is the comparable system for referring to the works of Plato, and Diels-Kranz numbering is the comparable system for Pre-Socratic philosophy. Unlike Stephanus pagination, which is based upon a three-volume translation of Plato's works and which recycles low page numbers across the three volumes, introducing the possibility for ambiguity if the Platonic work or volume is not specified, Bekker page numbers cycle from 1 through the end of the \"Corpus Aristotelicum\" regardless of volume, without starting over for some other given volume. Bekker numbering therefore has the advantage that its notation is unambiguous as compact numerical information, although it relies upon the ordering of Aristotle's works as presented in Bekker's edition.\n\nThe following list is complete. The titles are given in accordance with the standard set by the Revised Oxford Translation. Latin titles, still often used by scholars, are also given.\n\nThe \"Constitution of the Athenians\" (or \"Athenaiōn Politeia\") was not included in Bekker's edition because it was first edited in 1891 from papyrus rolls acquired in 1890 by the British Museum. The standard reference to it is by section (and subsection) numbers.\n\nSurviving fragments of the many lost works of Aristotle were included in the fifth volume of Bekker's edition, edited by Valentin Rose. These are not cited by Bekker numbers, however, but according to fragment numbers. Rose's first edition of the fragments of Aristotle was \"Aristoteles Pseudepigraphus\" (1863). As the title suggests, Rose considered these all to be spurious. The numeration of the fragments in a revised edition by Rose, published in the Teubner series, \"Aristotelis qui ferebantur librorum fragmenta\", Leipzig, 1886, is still commonly used (indicated by \"R\"), although there is a more current edition with a different numeration by Olof Gigon (published in 1987 as a new vol. 3 in Walter de Gruyter's reprint of the Bekker edition), and a new de Gruyter edition by Eckart Schütrumpf is in preparation.\n\nFor a selection of the fragments in English translation, see W.D. Ross, \"Select Fragments\" (Oxford 1952), and Jonathan Barnes (ed.), \"The Complete Works of Aristotle: The Revised Oxford Translation\", vol. 2, Princeton 1984, pp. 2384–2465.\n\nThe works surviving only in fragments include the dialogues \"On Philosophy\" (or \"On the Good\"), \"Eudemus\" (or \"On the Soul\"), \"On Justice\", and \"On Good Birth\". The possibly spurious work, \"On Ideas\" survives in quotations by Alexander of Aphrodisias in his commentary on Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\". For the dialogues, see also the editions of Richard Rudolf Walzer, \"Aristotelis Dialogorum fragmenta, in usum scholarum\" (Florence 1934), and Renato Laurenti, \"Aristotele: I frammenti dei dialoghi\" (2 vols.), Naples: Luigi Loffredo, 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "49885517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49885517", "title": "Boddington v British Transport Police", "text": "Boddington v British Transport Police\n\nMr Boddington was caught smoking in a railway carriage where smoking was prohibited. He was convicted and fined by a magistrate under a by-law made under the Transport Act 1962.\n\nOn appeal, the question was whether Mr Boddington was entitled to raise, as a defence, the invalidity of the by-law under which he had been convicted. The difficulty was that the normal path for having an administrative action declared unlawful and invalid is an application for judicial review – which Mr Boddington had not brought.\n\nThe House of Lords held unanimously that he was entitled to bring a so-called collateral challenge in the criminal proceedings. Lord Irvine, then Lord Chancellor, and Lord Steyn gave the leading speeches. On the facts, however, Mr Boddington's challenge failed, and his appeal against conviction was dismissed.\n\nCollateral challenges are an important means, alternative to an application for judicial review, of attacking the validity of an administrative action. Although collateral challenges had been permitted in English law before \"Boddington\", the case is notable for strongly asserting their continuing relevance in modern law and rooting them in liberal values.\n\n\"Boddington\" was adopted into South African law by the Supreme Court of Appeal in \"Oudekraal Estates (Pty) Ltd v City of Cape Town and Others.\"\n"}
{"id": "851479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=851479", "title": "British Encyclopaedia", "text": "British Encyclopaedia\n\nThe British Encyclopedia, or Dictionary of Arts and Sciences, claimed by its publishers to be a work \"Comprising an accurate and popular view of the present improved state of human knowledge\", was published at London in 1809 in six octavo volumes and around 150 plates.\n\nThe title page credits William Nicholson as the author, and much of the work was overseen by Jeremiah Joyce. Some of the plates were drawn by John Farey, Jr., and engraved by Wilson Lowry and Scott.\n\nThe work was published by a syndicate of twenty-three booksellers whose names appear on the title page of each volume, headed by the firm of Longman, Hurst, Rees, & Orme. Each purchased shares and in due time received a proportional profit from the eventual sales. This method of publishing was common in the 18th and early 19th century and was known as a conger. It was particularly suited to multi-part works such as encyclopaedias.\n\nThe Philadelphia publishing house of Mitchell, Ames, & White published three American editions of \"The British Encyclopedia\". The first American edition appeared in 1816-17 but little else is known of this edition. The second American edition appeared in 1818 in twelve volumes, and the third American, also in twelve volumes, closely followed in 1819 and 1821.\n\nIn 1998 John Issitt compared the text of \"The British Encyclopedia\" with the text of Gregory's \"A Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\", which was published in 1806-1807 and also edited by Jeremiah Joyce. Issitt suggests that Joyce developed Nicholson's \"Encyclopedia\" largely from the text of his prior work on Gregory's \"Dictionary\", and he contends, without an empirical showing, that 50% of the text of the two works is identical. If Issitt is correct, given that Gregory's \"Dictionary\" appeared in two folio volumes and Nicholson's \"Encyclopedia\" was presented in six octavo volumes, it would seem that Joyce must have copied nearly the whole of Gregory's \"Dictionary\" into Nicholson's \"Encyclopedia\". By observation of a sample of headwords and their articles between \"bergamot\" and \"bignonia\", we find in Gregory 34 heads in 8 columns and in Nicholson 27 heads in 21 columns; of these, 17 articles share some text, and of these, only seven very short articles in Gregory are copied directly and with minimal paraphrasing into Nicholson. This is sufficient to demonstrate that Gregory's \"Dictionary\" was indeed a useful resource for Nicholson's \"Encyclopedia\", but within this sample, less than two columns of text in Gregory can be found in Nicholson, and less than three columns of text in Nicholson can be found in Gregory. This sample then suggests that less than 25% of the text of Gregory found its way into Nicholson, and that of Nicholson's text, less than 15% can be traced to Gregory.\n\n"}
{"id": "52877199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52877199", "title": "Charcoal drawings by Georgia O'Keeffe from 1915", "text": "Charcoal drawings by Georgia O'Keeffe from 1915\n\nCharcoal drawings by Georgia O'Keeffe from 1915 represents Georgia O'Keeffe's first major exploration of abstract art and attainment of a freedom to explore her artistic talents based upon what she felt and envisioned. O'Keeffe developed radical charcoal drawings, with just a few lines, that led to greater development of total abstraction. This series of works was completed following three summers of instruction at the University of Virginia on Arthur Wesley Dow's design philosophies, which were highly influential in her development as an abstract artist. Early the following year, photographer and art dealer, Alfred Stieglitz exhibited some of the drawings at his \"291\" art gallery.\n\nWhile teaching at Columbia College in South Carolina, O'Keeffe completed a series of highly innovative charcoal abstractions in 1915, which were unique in their form. Other earlier creators of abstract art used Cubist shapes, but she used the rhythms and shapes that she found in nature to conceptualize her subconscious feelings, which she called the \"unknown\", to dictate her compositions.\n\n\"Drawing XIII\" is an example of how O'Keeffe began to develop her own sense of design and composition. A rising flame or flowing river are suggested by the curved line on the right side of the drawing. On the left is a jagged line that seems to represent a lightning strike or mountains. In between the two are four rounded images that appear to be trees or a rolling hillside.\n\nO'Keeffe mailed the drawings to friend and former classmate, Anita Pollitzer, who took them to Alfred Stieglitz at his \"291\" gallery early in 1916. Stieglitz found them to be the \"purest, finest, sincerest things that had entered \"291\" in a long while\", and in April, Stieglitz exhibited ten of her drawings at \"291\". O'Keeffe was surprised that Stieglitz had not communicated when her work would be shown. She confronted him, but agreed to let exhibit continue.\n"}
{"id": "4451215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4451215", "title": "Chazal", "text": "Chazal\n\nChazal or Ḥazal (), an acronym for the Hebrew \"Ḥakhameinu Zikhronam Liv'rakha\" (, \"Our Sages, may their memory be blessed\"), refers to all Jewish sages of the Mishna, Tosefta and Talmud eras, spanning from the times of the final 300 years of the Second Temple of Jerusalem until the 6th century CE, or  250 BCE –  625 CE.\n\nChazal are generally divided according to their era and the main writing done in that era:\n\nUntil the end of the Savoraim era, Chazal had the authority to comment on the Torah according to the Talmudical hermeneutics standards required by the Halakhah le-Moshe mi-Sinai (The unwritten laws believed to have been given to Moses at Sinai), sometimes even expounding a word or phrase outside its plain and ordinary sense. Nowadays in Orthodoxy, this authority is not delegated to the current generation's sages, and thus the Torah can not be commentated on, in matters concerning the \"halakha\" (\"tradition\"), if it contradicts Chazal's commentary.\n\nUntil the middle of the Tannaim era, when there was a Sanhedrin (a High Court of Jewish law), Chazal had also the authority to decree restrictions and to enact new religious regulations, in any matter they saw fit, concerning issues that were not included in the written Torah, or were not delivered at Mount Sinai. These rabbinical \"mitzvot\" (\"commandments\") include the holidays of Purim and Hanukkah, the laws of \"muktzah\" (\"set-aside items\") on Shabbat, the ritual washing of one's hands (\"netilat yadayim\") before eating bread, the construction of \"eruvim\" (liminal gateways), and the institution of the current schedule of daily prayer services – \"shacharit\" (morning prayer), \"mincha\" (afternoon prayer), and \"ma'ariv\" (evening prayer).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63317", "title": "Christian right", "text": "Christian right\n\nChristian right or religious right is a term used mainly in the United States to label conservative Christian political factions that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies. Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and to public policy by proclaiming the value of those teachings or by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy.\n\nIn the United States, the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a core of evangelical Protestants and Roman Catholics. The Christian right draws additional support from politically conservative mainline Protestants, Jews, and Mormons.\nThe movement has its roots in American politics going back as far as the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s. Its influence draws, in part, from grassroots activism as well as from focus on social issues and from the ability to motivate the electorate around those issues.\nThe Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school prayer, intelligent design, embryonic stem cell research, homosexuality, euthanasia, contraception, sex education, abortion, and pornography.\nAlthough the term \"Christian right\" is most commonly associated with politics in the United States, similar Christian conservative groups can be found in the political cultures of other Christian-majority nations.\n\nThe Christian right is \"also known as the \"New Christian Right\" (NCR) or the \"Religious Right\"\", although some consider the religious right to be \"a slightly broader category than Christian Right\".\n\nJohn C. Green of the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life states that Jerry Falwell used the label \"religious right\" to describe himself. Gary Schneeberger, vice president of media and public relations for Focus on the Family, states that \"[t]erms like 'religious right' have been traditionally used in a pejorative way to suggest extremism. The phrase 'socially conservative evangelicals' is not very exciting, but that's certainly the way to do it.\"\n\nEvangelical leaders like Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council have called attention to the problem of equating the term \"Christian right\" with evangelicals. Although evangelicals constitute the core constituency of the Christian right, not all evangelicals fit the description and moreover, a number of Roman Catholics are also members of the Christian right's core base. The problem of description is further complicated by the fact that \"religious conservative\" may refer to other groups. Mennonites and the Amish, for example, are theologically conservative, however there are no overtly political organizations associated with these denominations.\n\nPatricia Miller states that the \"alliance between evangelical leaders and the Catholic bishops has been a cornerstone of the Christian Right for nearly twenty years\". Since the late 1970s, the Christian right has been a notable force in both the Republican party and American politics when Baptist pastor Jerry Falwell and other Christian leaders began to urge conservative Christians to involve themselves in the political process. In response to the rise of the Christian right, the 1980 Republican Party platform assumed a number of its positions, including dropping support for the Equal Rights Amendment and adding support for a restoration of school prayer. The past two decades have been an important time in the political debates and in the same time frame religious citizens became more politically active in a time period labeled the New Christian Right. While the platform also opposed abortion and leaned towards restricting taxpayer funding for abortions and passing a constitutional amendment which would restore protection of the right to life for unborn children, it also accepted the fact that many Americans, including fellow Republicans, were divided on the issue. Since about 1980, the Christian right has been associated with several institutions including the Moral Majority, the Christian Coalition, Focus on the Family and the Family Research Council.\n\nWhile the influence of the Christian right is typically traced to the 1980 Presidential election, Daniel K. Williams argues in \"God's Own Party\" that it had actually been involved in politics for most of the twentieth century. He also notes that the Christian right had previously been in alliance with the Republican Party in the 1940s through 1960s on matters such as opposition to communism and defending \"a Protestant-based moral order.\"\n\nInto the 1960 election, Catholics and evangelicals worked against each other, as evangelicals mobilized their forces to defeat Catholics Al Smith in 1928 and John F. Kennedy in 1960. Secularization came to be seen by Protestants as the biggest threat to Christian values, however, and by the 1980s Catholic bishops and evangelicals had begun to work together on issues such as abortion.\n\nThe alienation of Southern Democrats from the Democratic Party contributed to the rise of the right, as the counterculture of the 1960s provoked fear of social disintegration. In addition, as the Democratic Party became identified with a pro-choice position on abortion and with nontraditional societal values, social conservatives joined the Republican Party in increasing numbers.\n\nIn 1976, U.S. President Jimmy Carter received the support of the Christian right largely because of his much-acclaimed religious conversion. However, Carter's spiritual transformation did not compensate for his liberal policies in the minds of Christian conservatives, as reflected in Jerry Falwell's criticism that \"Americans have literally stood by and watched as godless, spineless leaders have brought our nation floundering to the brink of death.\"\n\nThe Christian Right has engaged in battles over abortion, euthanasia, contraception, pornography, gambling, obscenity, state sanctioned prayer in public schools, textbook contents (concerning creationism), homosexuality, and sexual education. The Supreme Court's decision to make abortion a Constitution-protected right in the 1973 \"Roe v. Wade\" ruling was the driving force behind the rise of the Christian Right in the 1970s. Changing political context led to the Christian Right's advocacy for other issues, such as opposition to euthanasia and campaigning for abstinence-only sex education.\n\nRalph Reed, the chairman of the Christian Coalition, stated that the 1988 presidential campaign of Pat Robertson was the 'political crucible' that led to the proliferation of Christian Right groups in the United States.\n\nLinda Wertheimer, on the other hand, has suggested that the New Christian Right Movement's rise was not centered around the issue of abortion, but rather Bob Jones University's refusal to comply with the Supreme Court's 1971 \"Green v. Connally\" ruling that permitted the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to collect penalty taxes from private religious schools that violated federal laws.\n\nMuch of the Christian right's power within the American political system is attributed to their extraordinary turnout rate at the polls. The voters that coexist in the Christian right are also highly motivated and driven to get out a viewpoint on issues they care about. As well as high voter turnout, they can be counted on to attend political events, knock on doors and distribute literature. Members of the Christian right are willing to do the electoral work needed to see their candidate elected. Because of their high level of devotion, the Christian right does not need to monetarily compensate these people for their work.\n\nLed by Robert Grant advocacy group Christian Voice, Jerry Falwell's Moral Majority, Ed McAteer's Religious Roundtable Council, James Dobson's Focus on the Family, Paul Weyrich's Free Congress Foundation and The Heritage Foundation, and Pat Robertson's Christian Broadcasting Network, the new Religious Right combined conservative politics with evangelical and fundamentalist teachings. The birth of the New Christian right, however, is usually traced to a 1979 meeting where televangelist Jerry Falwell was urged to create a \"Moral Majority\" organization. In 1979, Weyrich was in a discussion with Falwell when he remarked that there was a \"moral majority\" of Americans ready to be called to political action. Weyrich later recalled in a 2007 interview with the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel that after he mentioned the term \"moral majority,\" Falwell \"turned to his people and said, 'That's the name of our organization.' \"\n\nWeyrich would then engineer a strong union between the Republican Party and many culturally conservative Christians. Soon, Moral Majority became a general term for the conservative political activism of evangelists and fundamentalists such as Pat Robertson, James Robison, and Jerry Falwell. Howard Schweber, Professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, writes that \"in the past two decades\", \"Catholic politicians have emerged as leading figures in the religious conservative movement.\"\n\nOne early attempt to bring the Christian right into American politics began in 1974 when Robert Grant, an early movement leader, founded American Christian Cause to advocate Christian ideological teachings in Southern California. Concerned that Christians overwhelmingly voted for President Jimmy Carter in 1976, Grant expanded his movement and founded Christian Voice to rally Christian voters behind socially conservative candidates. Prior to his alliance with Falwell, Weyrich sought an alliance with Grant. Grant and other Christian Voice staff soon set up their main office at the headquarters of Weyrich's Heritage Foundation. However, the alliance between Weyrich and Grant fell apart in 1978.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Pat Robertson founded the Christian Coalition of America, building from his 1988 presidential run, with Republican activist Ralph Reed, who became the spokesman for the Coalition. In 1992, the national Christian Coalition, Inc., headquartered in Virginia Beach, Virginia, began producing voter guides, which it distributed to conservative Christian churches, both Protestant and Catholic, with the blessing of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. Under the leadership of Reed and Robertson, the Coalition quickly became the most prominent voice in the conservative Christian movement, its influence culminating with an effort to support the election of a conservative Christian to the presidency in 1996. In addition, they have encouraged the convergence of conservative Christian ideology with political issues, such as healthcare, the economy, education and crime.\nPolitical activists lobbied within the Republican party locally and nationally to influence party platforms and nominations. More recently James Dobson's group Focus on the Family, based in Colorado Springs, and the Family Research Council in Washington D.C. have gained enormous respect from Republican lawmakers. While strongly advocating for these ideological matters, Dobson himself is more wary of the political spectrum and much of the resources of his group are devoted to other aims such as media. However, as a private citizen, Dobson has stated his opinion on presidential elections; on February 5, 2008, Dobson issued a statement regarding the 2008 presidential election and his strong disappointment with the Republican party's candidates.\n\nIn an essay written in 1996, Ralph Reed argued against the moral absolutist tone of Christian right leaders, arguing for the Republican Party Platform to stress the moral dimension of abortion rather than placing emphasis on overturning Roe v. Wade. Reed believes that pragmatism is the best way to advocate for the Christian right.\n\nOvertly partisan actions by churches could threaten their 501(c)(3) tax-exempt status due to the Johnson Amendment of the Internal Revenue Code. In one notable example, the former pastor of the East Waynesville Baptist Church in Waynesville, North Carolina \"told the congregation that anyone who planned to vote for Democratic Sen. John Kerry should either leave the church or repent\". The church later expelled nine members who had voted for Kerry and refused to repent, which led to criticism on the national level. The pastor resigned and the ousted church members were allowed to return.\n\nThe Alliance Defense Fund started the Pulpit Freedom Initiative in 2008. ADF states that \"[t]he goal of Pulpit Freedom Sunday is simple: have the Johnson Amendment declared unconstitutional – and once and for all remove the ability of the IRS to censor what a pastor says from the pulpit.\"\n\nChristian right organizations sometimes conduct polls to determine which presidential candidates will receive the support of Christian right constituents. One such poll is taken at the Family Research Council's Values Voter Summit. George W. Bush's electoral success owed much to his overwhelming support from white evangelical voters, who comprise 23% of the vote. In 2000 he received 68% of the white evangelical vote; in 2004 that percentage rose to 78%.\n\nThe Home School Legal Defense Association was co-founded in 1983 by Michael Farris, who would later establish Patrick Henry College, and Michael Smith. This organization attempts to challenge laws that serve as obstacles to allowing parents to home-school their children and to organize the disparate group of homeschooling families into a cohesive bloc. The number of homeschooling families has increased in the last twenty years, and around 80 percent of these families identify themselves as evangelicals.\n\nThe main universities associated with the Christian right in the United States are:\n\nThe media has played a major role in the rise of the Christian right since the 1920s and has continued to be a powerful force for political Christianity today. The role of the media for the Religious right has been influential in its ability to connect Christian audiences to the larger American culture while at the same time bringing and keeping religion into play as both a political and a cultural force. The political agenda of the Christian right has been disseminated to the public through a variety of media outlets including radio broadcasting, television, and literature.\n\nReligious broadcasting began in the 1920s through the radio. Between the 1950s and 1980s, TV became a powerful way for the Christian right to influence the public through shows such as Pat Robertson's \"The 700 Club\" and The Family Channel. The Internet has also helped the Christian right reach a much larger audience. Organization's websites play a strong role in popularising the Christian right's stances on cultural and political issues, and informed interested viewers on how to get involved. The Christian Coalition, for example, has used the Internet to inform the public, as well as to sell merchandise and gather members.\n\nThe Christian right has strong opinions on how American children should be educated.\n\nThe Christian right strongly advocates for a system of educational choice, using a system of school vouchers, instead of public education. Vouchers would be government funded and could be redeemed for \"a specified maximum sum per child per years if spent on approved educational services\". This method would allow parents to determine which school their child attends while relieving the economic burden associated with private schools. The concept is popular among constituents of church-related schools, including those affiliated with Roman Catholicism.\n\nThe Christian right in the United States generally promotes the teaching of creationism and intelligent design as opposed to, or alongside, biological evolution. Some supporters of the Christian right have opposed the teaching of evolution in the past, but they did not have the ability to stop it being taught in public schools as was done during the Scopes Trial in Dayton, Tennessee, in which a science teacher went on trial for teaching about the subject of evolution in a public school. Other \"Christian right organizations supported the teaching of creationism, along with evolution, in public schools\", specifically promoting theistic evolution (also known as evolutionary creationism) in which God is regarded as the originator of the process.\n\nMembers of and organizations associated with the Christian right, such as the Discovery Institute, created and popularized the modern concept of intelligent design, which became widely known only with the publication of the book \"Of Pandas and People\" in 1989. The Discovery Institute, through their intelligent design initiative called the \"Center for Science and Culture\", has endorsed the teach the controversy approach. Such an approach would ensure that both the strengths and weaknesses of evolutionary theory were discussed in the curriculum. This tactic was criticized by Judge John E. Jones III in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", describing it as \"at best disingenuous, and at worst a canard.\" The overwhelming majority of scientific research, both in the United States and elsewhere, has concluded that the theory of evolution, using the technical definition of the word theory, is the only viable explanation of the development of life, and an overwhelming majority of biologists strongly support its presentation in public school science classes. Outside the United States, as well as among American Catholics and Mainline Protestants, Christian conservatives have generally come to accept the theory of evolution.\n\nSome Christian groups advocate for the removal of sex education literature from public schools, for parental opt-out of comprehensive sex education, or for abstinence-only sex education. Thirty percent of America's sexual-education programs are abstinence based. These programs promote abstinence until marriage as the only way to prevent pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases and emotional issues that could arise from sexual activity. There is no evidence supporting the effectiveness of abstinence-only sex education; multiple studies have failed to find any benefit, and have even found that it may be harmful. It has been found to be ineffective in decreasing HIV risk in the developed world. Likewise, it does not decrease rates of sexual activity or unplanned pregnancy when compared to comprehensive sex education.\n\nThe Christian right promotes homeschooling and private schooling as a valid alternative to public education for parents who object to the content being taught at school. In recent years, the percentage of children being homeschooled has risen from 1.7% of the student population in 1999 to 2.2% in 2003. Much of this increase has been attributed to the desire to incorporate Christian teachings into the curriculum. In 2003, 72% of parents who homeschooled their children cited the ability to provide religious or moral instruction as the reason for removing their children from public schools. The \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" case established that creationism cannot be taught in public schools, and in response officials have increasingly appropriated public funds for charter schools that teach curricula like Accelerated Christian Education.\n\nSupporters of the Christian right have no one unified stance on the role of government since the movement is primarily one that advocates social conservatism; in fact, \"struggles [have] broken out in state party organizations\" between supporters of the Christian right and other conservatives. It promotes conservative interpretations of the Bible as the basis for moral values and enforcing such values by legislation. Some members of the Christian right, especially Catholics, accept the Catholic Church's strong support for labor unions.\n\nThe Christian right believes that separation of church and state is not explicit in the American Constitution, believing instead that such separation is a creation of what it claims are activist judges in the judicial system. In the United States, the Christian right often supports their claims by asserting that the country was \"founded by Christians as a Christian Nation.\" Members of the Christian right take the position that the Establishment Clause bars the federal government from establishing or sponsoring a state church (e.g., the Church of England), but does not prevent the government from acknowledging religion. The Christian right points out that the term \"separation of church and state\" is derived from a letter written by Thomas Jefferson, not from the Constitution itself. Furthermore, the Alliance Defense Fund takes the view that the concept of \"separation of church and state\" has been used by the American Civil Liberties Union and its allies to inhibit public acknowledgment of Christianity and restrict the religious freedoms of Christians.\n\nThus, Christian right leaders have argued that the Establishment Clause does not prohibit the display of religion in the public sphere. Leaders therefore believe that public institutions should be allowed, or even required, to display the Ten Commandments. This interpretation has been repeatedly rejected by the courts, which have found that such displays violate the Establishment Clause. Public officials though are prohibited from using their authority in which the primary effect is \"advancing or prohibiting religion\", according to the Lemon Supreme Court test, and there cannot be an \"excessive entanglement with religion\" and the government. Some, such as Bryan Fischer of the American Family Association, argue that the First Amendment, which specifically restricts Congress, applies only to the Congress and not the states. This position rejects the incorporation of the Bill of Rights.\n\nGenerally, the Christian right supports the presence of religious institutions within government and the public sphere, and advocates for fewer restrictions on government funding for religious charities and schools. Both Catholics and Protestants, according to a 2005 Gallup study, have been supportive of school prayer in public schools.\n\nEarly American fundamentalists, such as John R. Rice often favored \"laissez-faire\" economics and were outspoken critics of the New Deal and later the Great Society. The contemporary Christian right supports economic conservative policies such as tax cuts and social conservative policies such as child tax credits.\n\nMany evangelical Protestant supporters of the religious right have given very strong support to the state of Israel in recent decades, encouraging support for Israel in the United States government. Some have linked Israel to Biblical prophesies; for example, Ed McAteer, founder of the Moral Majority, said \"I believe that we are seeing prophecy unfold so rapidly and dramatically and wonderfully and, without exaggerating, makes me breathless.\" This belief, an example of dispensationalism, arises from the idea that the establishment of Israel is a prerequisite for the Second Coming of Jesus, because it represents the Biblically prophesied Gathering of Israel. A 2017 poll indicates that this belief is held by 80% of evangelicals, and that half of evangelicals consider it an important cause of their support for the state of Israel. \n\nThe Christian right opposes abortion, believing that life begins at conception and that abortion is murder. Therefore, those in the movement have worked toward the overturning of \"Roe v. Wade\", and have also supported incremental steps to make abortion less available. Such efforts include bans on late-term abortion (including intact dilation and extraction), prohibitions against Medicaid funding and other public funding for elective abortions, removal of taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood and other organizations that provide abortion services, legislation requiring parental consent or notification for abortions performed on minors, legal protections for unborn victims of violence, legal protections for infants born alive following failed abortions, and bans on abortifacient medications.\n\nThe Christian right contends that morning-after pills such as Plan B and Ella are possible abortifacients, able to interfere with a fertilized egg's implantation in the uterine wall. The labeling mandated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Plan B and Ella state that\nthey may interfere with implantation, but according to a June 2012, \"The New York Times\" article, many scientists believe that they work only by interfering with ovulation and are arguing to have the implantation language removed from product labels. The Christian right maintains that the chemical properties of morning-after pills make them abortifacients and that the politics of abortion is influencing scientific judgments. Jonathan Imbody of the Christian Medical Association says he questions \"whether ideological considerations are driving these decisions.\" Specifically, many Catholic members, as well as some conservative Protestant members, of the Christian right have campaigned against contraception altogether.\n\nAccording to some social science research, Christians and members of the Christian right are typically less concerned about issues of environmental responsibility than the general public.\n\nDue to the Christian right's views regarding ethics and to an extent due to negative views of eugenics common to most ideologies in North America, it has worked for the regulation and restriction of certain applications of biotechnology. In particular, the Christian right opposes therapeutic and reproductive human cloning, championing a 2005 United Nations ban on the practice, and human embryonic stem cell research, which involves the extraction of one or more cells from a human embryo. The Christian right supports research with adult stem cells, amniotic stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells which do not use cells from human embryos, as they view the harvesting of biological material from an embryo lacking the ability to give permission as an assault on a living being.\n\nThe Christian right also opposes euthanasia, and, in one highly publicized case, took an active role in seeking governmental intervention to prevent Terri Schiavo from being deprived of nutrition and hydration.\n\nThe modern roots of the Christian right's views on sexual matters were evident in the 1950s, a period in which many Christian conservatives in the United States viewed sexual promiscuity as not only excessive, but in fact as a threat to their ideal vision of the country.\nBeginning in the 1970s, conservative Christian protests against promiscuity began to surface, largely as a reaction to the \"permissive sixties\" and an emerging prominence of sexual rights arising from \"Roe v Wade\" and the gay rights movement. The Christian right proceeded to make sexuality issues a priority political cause.\n\nThe Christian right champions itself as the \"self-appointed conscience of American society\". During the 1980s, the movement was largely dismissed by political pundits and mainstream religious leaders as \"a collection of buffoonish has-beens\". Later, it re-emerged, better organized and more focused, taking firm positions against abortion, pornography, sexual deviancy, and extreme feminism. Beginning around the presidency of Donald Trump, Christian conservatives have largely refrained from engaging in debates about sexual morality.\n\nInfluential Christian right organizations at the forefront of the anti-gay rights movement in the United States include Focus on the Family, Family Research Council and the Family Research Institute. An important stratagem in Christian right anti-gay politics is in its rejection of \"the edicts of a Big Brother\" state, allowing it to profit from \"a general feeling of discontent and demoralization with government\". As a result, the Christian right has endorsed smaller government, restricting its ability to arbitrate in disputes regarding values and traditions. In this context, gay rights laws have come to symbolize the government's allegedly unconstitutional \"[interference] with individual freedom\".\n\nThe central tenets of Focus on the Family and similar organizations, such as the Family Research Council, emphasise issues such as abortion and the necessity of gender roles. A number of organizations, including the New Christian Right, \"have in various ways rejected liberal America in favor of the regulation of pornography, anti-abortion legislation, the criminalization of homosexuality, and the virtues of faithfulness and loyalty in sexual partnerships\", according to sociologist Bryan Turner.\n\nA large number of the Christian right view same-sex marriage as a central issue in the culture wars, more so than other gay rights issues and even more significantly than abortion. The legalization of same-sex marriage in Massachusetts in 2004 changed the Christian right, causing it to put its opposition to these marriages above most other issues. It also created previously unknown interracial and ecumenical coalitions, and stimulated new electoral activity in pastors and congregations.\n\nCriticisms of the Christian right often come from Christians who believe Jesus' message was centered on social responsibility and social justice. Theologian Michael Lerner has summarized: \"The unholy alliance of the Political Right and the Religious Right threatens to destroy the America we love. It also threatens to generate a revulsion against God and religion by identifying them with militarism, ecological irresponsibility, fundamentalist antagonism to science and rational thought, and insensitivity to the needs of the poor and the powerless.\" Commentators from all sides of the aisle such as Rob Schenck, Randall Balmer, and Charles M. Blow criticized the Christian right for its tolerance and embrace of Donald Trump during the 2016 presidential election despite Trump's failure to adhere to any of the principles advocated by the Christian right groups for decades.\n\nOne argument which questions the legitimacy of the Christian right posits that Jesus Christ may be considered a leftist on the modern political spectrum. Jesus' concern with the poor and feeding the hungry, among other things, are argued, by proponents of Christian leftism, to be core attributes of modern-day socialism and social justice. However, others contend that while Jesus' concern for the poor and hungry is virtuous and that individuals have a moral obligation to help others, the relationship between charity and the state should not be construed in the same manner.\n\nSome criticize what they see as a politicization of Christianity because they say Jesus transcends our political concepts.\n\nMikhail Gorbachev referred to Jesus as \"the first Socialist\".\n\nThe Christian right has tried to recruit social conservatives in the black church. Prior to the 2016 United States presidential election, Ben Carson emerged as a leader in the Christian right.\n\nWhilst the Christian right in the United States is making a tough stand against the progression of LGBT rights, other Christian movements have taken a more lenient approach towards the matter, arguing that the biblical texts only oppose specific types of divergent sexual behaviour, such as paederasty (i.e. the sodomising of young boys by older men). During the Trump administration, there is a growing push for \"religious liberty bills\" that would allow individuals and businesses claiming anti-LGBT beliefs that are religious in origin to exempt themselves from obeying anti-discrimination laws intended to protect LGBT people.\n\nSome social scientists have used the word \"dominionism\" to refer to adherence to Dominion Theology as well as to the influence in the broader Christian Right of ideas inspired by Dominion Theology. Although such influence (particularly of Reconstructionism) has been described by many authors, full adherents to Reconstructionism are few and marginalized among conservative Christians. In the early 1990s, sociologist Sara Diamond defined \"dominionism\" in her PhD dissertation as a movement that, while including Dominion Theology and Reconstructionism as subsets, is much broader in scope, extending to much of the Christian Right. She was followed by journalists including Frederick Clarkson and Chris Hedges and others who have stressed the influence of Dominionist ideas on the Christian right.\n\nThe terms \"dominionist\" and \"dominionism\" are rarely used for self-description, and their usage has been attacked from several quarters. Journalist Anthony Williams charged that its purpose is \"to smear the Republican Party as the party of domestic Theocracy, facts be damned.\" Stanley Kurtz labeled it \"conspiratorial nonsense,\" \"political paranoia,\" and \"guilt by association\", and decried Hedges' \"vague characterizations\" that allow him to \"paint a highly questionable picture of a virtually faceless and nameless 'Dominionist' Christian mass.\" Kurtz also complained about a perceived link between average Christian evangelicals and extremism such as Christian Reconstructionism:\n\nThe notion that conservative Christians want to reinstitute slavery and rule by genocide is not just crazy, it's downright dangerous. The most disturbing part of the \"Harper's\" cover story (the one by Chris Hedges) was the attempt to link Christian conservatives with Hitler and fascism. Once we acknowledge the similarity between conservative Christians and fascists, Hedges appears to suggest, we can confront Christian evil by setting aside 'the old polite rules of democracy.' So wild conspiracy theories and visions of genocide are really excuses for the Left to disregard the rules of democracy and defeat conservative Christians – by any means necessary.\n\nLisa Miller of \"Newsweek\" said that many warnings about \"dominionism\" are \"paranoid\" and that \"the word creates a siege mentality in which 'we' need to guard against 'them.'\" Ross Douthat of \"The New York Times\" noted that \"many of the people that writers like Diamond and others describe as 'dominionists' would disavow the label, many definitions of dominionism conflate several very different Christian political theologies, and there's a lively debate about whether the term is even useful at all.\" According to Joe Carter of \"First Things\", \"the term was coined in the 1980s by Diamond and is never used outside liberal blogs and websites. No reputable scholars use the term for it is a meaningless neologism that Diamond concocted for her dissertation,\" while Jeremy Pierce of \"First Things\" coined the word \"dominionismist\" to describe those who promote the idea that there is a dominionist conspiracy.\n\nOther criticism has focused on the proper use of the term. Berlet wrote that \"some critics of the Christian Right have stretched the term dominionism past its breaking point,\" and argued that, rather than labeling conservatives as extremists, it would be better to \"talk to these people\" and \"engage them.\" Sara Diamond wrote that \"[l]iberals' writing about the Christian Right's take-over plans has generally taken the form of conspiracy theory\", and argued that instead one should \"analyze the subtle ways\" that ideas like Dominionism \"take hold within movements and why.\"\n\nDan Olinger, a professor at the fundamentalist Bob Jones University in Greenville, South Carolina, said, \"We want to be good citizens and participants, but we're not really interested in using the iron fist of the law to compel people to everything Christians should do.\" Bob Marcaurelle, interim pastor at Mountain Springs Baptist Church in Piedmont, said the Middle Ages were proof enough that Christian ruling groups are almost always corrupted by power. \"When Christianity becomes the government, the question is whose Christianity?\" Marcaurelle asked.\n\nWhile the Christian Right is a strong movement in the United States, it has a presence as well in Canada. Alan Curtis suggests that the American Christian right \"is a phenomenon that is very hard for Europeans to understand.\" Robin Pettitt, a professor at Kingston University London, states, however, that like the Christian right in the US, Christian Democratic movements in Europe and Latin America are \"equally driven by the debate over the role of the state and the church in political, social and moral life.\"\n\nReligion has been a key factor in Canadian politics since well before Canadian Confederation in 1867, when the Conservatives were the party of traditionalist Catholics and Anglicans and the Liberals were the party of Protestant dissenters and anti-clerical Catholics. This pattern largely remained until the mid-twentieth century when a new division emerged between the Christian left (represented by the Social Gospel philosophy and ecumenicism) and the Christian right (represented by fundamentalism and biblical literalism). The Christian left (along with the secular and anti-religious left) became supporters of the New Democratic Party while the right moved to the Social Credit Party, especially in Western Canada, and to a lesser extent the Progressive Conservatives.\n\nThe Social Credit Party, founded in 1935 represented a major change in Canadian religious politics. Until that time, fundamentalists had shunned politics as \"worldly\", and a distraction from the proper practice of religion. However, the new party was founded by fundamentalist radio preacher and Bible school teacher William Aberhart or \"Bible Bill\". Aberhart mixed his own interpretation of scripture and prophecy with the monetary reform theories of social credit to create a movement that swept across Alberta, winning the provincial election of 1935 in a landslide. Aberhart and his disciple Ernest Manning then governed the province for the next forty years, several times trying to expand into the rest of Canada. In 1987 Manning's son, Preston Manning, founded the new Reform Party of Canada, which soon became the main party of the religious right. It won majorities of the seats in Western Canada in repeated elections, but was unable to break through in Eastern Canada, though it became the official opposition from 1997 to 2003 (Reform was renamed the Canadian Alliance in 2000). In 2003 the Canadian Alliance and the Progressive Conservatives merged to create the Conservative Party of Canada, led by Stephen Harper, a member of the Christian and Missionary Alliance, who went on to become prime minister in 2006.\n\nCanada has had a Charter of Rights and Freedoms since the Canadian Constitution was patriated in 1982. As a result, there have been major changes in the law's application to issues that bear on individual and minority group rights. Abortions were completely decriminalized after two R. v. Morgentaler cases (in 1988 and in 1993). A series of provincial superior court decisions allowing same-sex marriage led the federal government to introduce legislation that introduced same-sex marriage in all of Canada. Former Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper stated before taking office that he would hold a free vote on the issue, but declared the issue closed after a vote in the House of Commons in 2006.\n\nChristian right politics in Latin America is strongly connected with the growing Evangelical Christian community. Catholics in Latin America despite being normally socially conservative tend to be more left-wing in economics due to the traditional teachings of the Catholic social doctrine. Evangelical Christians on the other hand are mostly from the neo-Pentecostal movement and thus believers in the Prosperity Theology which justify most of their neoliberal economic ideas. They are also strongly socially conservative even for Latin American standards.\n\nIn the Netherlands Calvinist Protestants have long had their own political parties, now called the Reformed Political Party (SGP) on the right, and the ChristianUnion (CU) in the center. For generations they operated their own newspapers and broadcasting association. The SGP has about 28,000 members, and three members of parliament, of the 150. It has always been in opposition to the government. The SGP has helped the Dutch government to get laws through the Second Chamber 2010–2012. In exchange that government did not increase the number of Sundays on which shopping is allowed.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, Ian Paisley led a Protestant fundamentalist party, the Democratic Unionist Party, which had a considerable influence on the province's culture. Since the 2017 UK general election, the DUP has provided confidence and supply to the governing Conservative Party, although this agreement provoked concern from socially liberal elements of the party about possible DUP influence on social policy . Karen Armstrong has mentioned English evangelical leader Colin Urquhart as advocating positions similar to the Christian Right. Some of the members of the Conservative Party also support some of the values of the Christian right.\n\nIn Australia, fundamentalist Christianity is the base for Fred Nile and his Christian Democratic Party as well as the Family First Party. Nile in 1967–68 was Assistant Director of the Billy Graham Crusade in Sydney. Both parties promote social conservatism, opposing gay rights and abortion. Some party members of the Liberal and National Party Coalition and the Australian Labor Party also support some of the values of the Christian right on abortion and gay rights. The Australian Christian Lobby argues for opposition to same-sex marriage in state and federal politics.\n\nIn the Philippines, due to Spanish colonization, and the introduction of the Catholic Church, religious conservatism has a strong influence on national policies. Some have argued that the U.S. Christian right may have borrowed beliefs from the Filipino religious conservatism.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Democratic Union is a small conservative Protestant party with about 1% of the vote.\n\nIn Scandinavia, the Centre Party is a bible-oriented fundamentalist party; it has about 4% of the votes in the Faroe Islands. However, the Norwegian Christian People's Party, the Swedish Christian Democrats and Danish Christian Democrats are less religiously orthodox and are similar to mainstream European Christian Democracy.\n\nIn Fiji, Sodelpa is a conservative, nationalist party which seeks to make Christianity the state religion, while the constitution makes Fiji a secular republic. Following the 2014 general election, Sodelpa is the main opposition party in Parliament.\n\nIn Brazil, the evangelical bloc have a great influence at the parliament and in the society in general. The bloc promotes strong socially conservative positions, like opposition to abortion, LGBT rights, marijuana legalization, sexual and gender education at schools and support to decrease of age of defense of infancy. The Party of the Republic, the Brazilian Republican Party and the Social Christian Party are the main parties of the bloc, but except to left-wings and far-left parties with strong social progressive beliefs like Workers' Party or Socialism and Liberty Party, Christian conservatives can be found in all political parties of Brazil. In 2016, Marcelo Crivella, a licensed pentecostal pastor from the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, won in a runoff the election to mayor of Rio de Janeiro, the second biggest city in Brazil, with the Brazilian Republican Party, making for the first time an evangelical bloc member mayor of a big city in Brazil.\n\nThe Christian right has a strong position in several Conservative parties worldwide, although many members of these parties would also, paradoxically, strongly oppose such views.\n\nSome minor political parties have formed as vehicles for Christian right activists:\n\n"}
{"id": "40762262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40762262", "title": "Chronicon Suevicum universale", "text": "Chronicon Suevicum universale\n\nThe Chronicon Suevicum universale (, \"Swabian World Chronicle\"), written around 1045 in Latin, is a chronicle of universal history in the form of annals for the years from Creation down to 1043. It was once commonly associated with the monastery of Saint Gall, but is now thought to have been composed by a monk of Reichenau. On the first hypothesis, it has been called the \"Epitome Sangallense Herimanni Augiensis\", a Saint Gall version of Hermann of Reichenau's chronicle. On the second, it has been called the \"Reichenauer Weltchronik\". \n\n"}
{"id": "49313009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49313009", "title": "Cinemateca Argentina", "text": "Cinemateca Argentina\n\nCinemateca Argentina is a film archive located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It was established in 1949. It holds more than 22,000 films, 80,000 photographs and a library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25476512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25476512", "title": "Collectio Avellana", "text": "Collectio Avellana\n\nCollectio Avellana (the \"Avellana Compilation\") is a collection of 244 documents, dating from AD 367 to 553, that includes many imperial letters written to popes and others, imperial acts and papal letters and other documents that were gathered just after the mid-6th century. Many of the documents have not been preserved in any other collection. Contemporary copies have not survived: the oldest and best manuscript is in the Vatican Library, Vat. lat. 3787 (XI). This is the text that was edited by O. Guenther, \"Epistolae Imperatorum Pontificum Aliorum Inde ab a. CCCLXVII usque DLIII datae Avellana Quae Dicitur Collectio\", in \"Corpus Scriptorum Ecclesiasticorum Latinorum\", Vol. 35, in 2 parts (Prague/Vienna/Leipzig, 1895). \n\nThe compiler(s) of \"Collectio Avellana\" aimed to fill the gaps of previous compilations. The author or authors must have had access to archives of the See of Rome, since they incorporated into the collection a variety of papal documents not in the \"Liber Pontificalis\" and imperial acts.\n"}
{"id": "6824243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6824243", "title": "Comparison of statistical packages", "text": "Comparison of statistical packages\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a number of statistical analysis packages.\n\nSupport for various ANOVA methods\nSupport for various regression methods.\n\nSupport for various time series analysis methods.\n\nSupport for various statistical charts and diagrams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23180078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23180078", "title": "Coral Gardens and Their Magic", "text": "Coral Gardens and Their Magic\n\nCoral Gardens and Their Magic, properly Coral Gardens and Their Magic: A Study of the Methods of Tilling the Soil and of Agricultural Rites in the Trobriand Islands, is the final book in anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski's ethnographic trilogy on the lives of the Trobriand Islanders. It concentrates on the cultivation practices the Trobriand Islanders used to grow yams, taro, bananas and palms. It describes the gardens in which the Trobrianders grew food as more than merely utilitarian spaces, even as works of art. In 1988 Alfred Gell called the book \"still the best account of any primitive technological-cum-magical system, and unlikely ever to be superseded in this respect\". The book has been described as Malinowski's \"magnum opus\".\n\nThe book consists of seven parts divided over two volumes. Volume I, \"The Description of Gardening\", contains the introduction and parts one to three, and volume II, \"The Language of Magic and Gardening\", parts four to seven.\n\nThe work continues to receive attention from contemporary anthropologists. Its assessment of the Trobriand chief's role as that of a \"glorified brother-in-law\" to the whole community is one with which later anthropologists have taken issue. It records unusually extensive ethnolinguistic data for of a work of its time, much of it relating to gardening spells that the Trobriand Islanders used, and much of it incompletely analysed; it continues to provide a data source for anthropologists of language. Malinowski was also praised for his serious engagement with the realities of Trobriand agriculture, its emphasis on its ceremonial aspects notwithstanding, in favour of a simpler, romanticized view.\n\nThe work is also regarded as a pioneering text in the interdisciplinary study of pragmatics. Its analysis of the context and contents of Trobriand spells was one of the first to bring ethnography to bear on the subject of language.\n\nIn a letter written around February 1929, Malinowski wrote that he was basing the monograph partly upon a draft manuscript on gardening he had written during 1916 and 1917.\n\nThe book was published by Routledge in 1935. It has been through several editions, including a 1966 second edition by Allen and Unwin. US editions were published in 1965 and 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "4603296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4603296", "title": "Croatisation", "text": "Croatisation\n\nCroatisation or Croatization (, or \"pohrvaćenje\"; ) is a process of cultural assimilation, and its consequences, in which people or lands ethnically only partially Croatian or non-Croatian become Croatian.\n\nSerbs in the Roman Catholic Croatian Military Frontier were out of the jurisdiction of the Serbian Patriarchate of Peć and in 1611, after demands from the community, the Pope establishes the Eparchy of Marča (\"Vratanija\") with seat at the Serbian-built Marča Monastery and instates a Byzantine vicar as bishop sub-ordinate to the Roman Catholic bishop of Zagreb, working to bring Serbian Orthodox Christians into communion with Rome which caused struggle of power between the Catholics and the Serbs over the region. In 1695 Serbian Orthodox Eparchy of \"Lika-Krbava and Zrinopolje\" is established by metropolitan Atanasije Ljubojevic and certified by Emperor Josef I in 1707. In 1735 the Serbian Orthodox protested in the Marča Monastery and becomes part of the Serbian Orthodox Church until 1753 when the Pope restores the Roman Catholic clergy. On 17 June 1777 the Eparchy of Križevci is permanently established by Pope Pius VI with see at Križevci, near Zagreb, thus forming the Croatian Greek Catholic Church which would after World War I include other people; Rusyns and Ukrainians of Yugoslavia.\n\nThe Croatisation during Independent State of Croatia (NDH) was aimed primarily to Serbs, with Italian, Jews and Roma to a lesser degree. The Ustaše aim was a \"pure Croatia\" and the biggest enemy was the ethnic Serbs of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The ministers announced the goals and strategies of the Ustaše in May 1941. The same statements and similar or related ones were also repeated in public speeches by single ministers as Mile Budak in Gospic and, a month later, by Mladen Lorkovic.\n\n\nEven with a predominant Croatian majority, Dalmatia retained relatively large Italian communities in the coast (Italian majority in some cities and islands, largest concentration in Istria). Italians in Dalmatia kept key political positions and Croatian majority had to make an enormous effort to get Croatian language into schools and offices. Most Dalmatian Italians gradually assimilated to the prevailing Croatian culture and language between the 1860s and World War I, although Italian language and culture remained present in Dalmatia. The community was granted minority rights in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia; during the Italian occupation of Dalmatia in World War II, it was caught in the ethnic violence towards non-Italians during fascist repression: what remained of the community fled the area after World War II.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia in November 1991, and especially from May 1992 forward, the Herzeg-Bosnia leadership engaged in continuing and coordinated efforts to dominate and \"Croatise\" (or ethnically cleanse) the municipalities which they claimed were part of Herzeg-Bosnia, with increasing persecution and discrimination directed against the Bosniak population. The Croatian Defence Council (HVO), the military formation of Croats, took control of many municipal governments and services, removing or marginalising local Bosniak leaders. Herzeg-Bosnia authorities and Croat military forces took control of the media and imposed Croatian ideas and propaganda. Croatian symbols and currency were introduced, and Croatian curricula and the Croatian language were introduced in schools. Many Bosniaks were removed from positions in government and private business; humanitarian aid was managed and distributed to the Bosniaks' disadvantage; and Bosniaks in general were increasingly harassed. Many of them were deported to concentration camps: Heliodrom, Dretelj, Gabela, Vojno, and Šunje.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2405935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2405935", "title": "Dictionary (software)", "text": "Dictionary (software)\n\nDictionary is an application developed by Apple Inc. as a part of macOS. The application provides definitions and synonyms from various dictionaries, Wikipedia articles and a glossary of Apple-related terms.\n\nDictionary was introduced in OS X 10.4 with the New Oxford American Dictionary and \"Oxford American Writer's Thesaurus\" (as well as the Wikipedia and Apple sections). 10.5 added Japanese dictionaries, 10.7 added the British Oxford Dictionary of English, and 10.8 added French, German, Spanish and Chinese.\n\nOS X's progenitor, OPENSTEP (and NEXTSTEP) provided similar functionality, called Digital Webster, providing dictionary and thesaurus definitions from Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary and Webster's Collegiate Thesaurus (termed the \"First Digital Edition\"). OPENSTEP Services provide lookup from all applications.\n\nDictionary was first introduced with Mac OS X v10.4 \"Tiger\" and provided definitions from the \"New Oxford American Dictionary, 2nd Edition\". With Mac OS X 10.7 \"Lion\", Dictionary was updated to the Third Edition of the New Oxford American Dictionary and the British Oxford Dictionary of English was added.\n\nWords can be entered in the search bar by just typing the first few letters. The application will perform an incremental search to show any matching headwords or forms, and will try to bypass spelling errors. Clicking on any word in a definition searches for that word in the dictionary again. Almost any word is clickable, except the pronunciations in phonetic characters and numerals.\n\nThe Preferences allow a user to select from three different pronunciation schemes, either US English (Diacritical or IPA), or British English (IPA).\n\nThe dictionary and thesaurus in Dictionary are in an XML format, but make use of precompiled binary index files to access the XML file directly. Therefore, the lexicon cannot easily be modified. However, the user can add new words to the macOS system-wide spell checker, which uses its own lexicon.\n\n\nOS X 10.5 (Leopard) added the Japanese-language dictionary Daijisen, Progressive English to Japanese and Progressive Japanese to English dictionaries, and the 25,000-entry thesaurus , all of which are provided by the Japanese publisher Shogakukan. The Japanese dictionaries do not show up by default, and must be enabled in Preferences.\n\nIn OS 10.8 Mountain Lion, the Japanese dictionaries were replaced by Super Daijirin and the Wisdom English-Japanese Dictionary. In addition, dictionaries were also added for French (Multidictionnaire de la Langue Française for Macs sold in Europe, or Les Éditions Québec Amérique for Macs sold in America), German (Duden), Spanish (Vox), and Chinese (Standard Dictionary of Contemporary Chinese).\n\nSoftware such as DictUnifier can be used to add more dictionaries to the application.\n\nThough dictionary entries purport to be neutral, there is evidence that the Apple Dictionary application exhibits various forms of bias. A complaint was filed in 2013 about the definition for \"gay,\" which includes the following \"informal\" definition, \"\"offensive\" foolish, stupid, or unimpressive: \"making students wait for the light is kind of a gay rule.\"\" Despite the complaint, this definition has not been modified as of July 2018. In addition, writers of the dictionary exhibit gender bias in definitions such as \"political,\" and \"apolitical.\" The definition for \"political\" associates the word with a man, \"he's a political man\" and the example for \"apolitical\" associates the word with a woman, \"not interested or involved in politics: \"a former apolitical housewife\".\" This form of gender bias has been documented in many dictionaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "11869821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11869821", "title": "Encyclopedia Brunoniana", "text": "Encyclopedia Brunoniana\n\nEncyclopedia Brunoniana is an American reference work by Martha Mitchell covering Brown University. Published in 1993 by the Brown University Library, the encyclopedia has 629 pages. A digital version can be read free of charge on the Internet.\n\n\"Encyclopedia Brunoniana\" serves as a reference for the Brown community on the University's history. It includes articles on Brown's departments, publications, buildings, and people associated with the University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1102493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102493", "title": "Encyclopedia of Evolution", "text": "Encyclopedia of Evolution\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Evolution is a print encyclopedia of evolutionary biology, edited by Mark Pagel. A similar book, the \"Cambridge Encyclopedia of Evolution\" is edited by Steve Jones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12132858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12132858", "title": "Family History Center (LDS Church)", "text": "Family History Center (LDS Church)\n\nFamily History Centers (FHCs) are branches of the Family History Library in Salt Lake City Utah operated by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The centers supply resources for research and study of genealogy and family history. As of 2018, there are more than 5,100 FHCs in 140 countries.\n\nThe smallest FHCs are targeted toward people living within the boundaries of individual local wards and branches. Stakes and districts may house a FHC for their constituent wards/branches, or may share a facility with multiple stakes/districts in their area. Regional FHCs are usually \"library class\" facilities designated as true branch libraries of the Salt Lake City Family History Library (FHL). FHCs with established hours of operation are open to members of the LDS Church and nonmembers alike.\n\nFHCs vary greatly in size, hours staffed, and resources available. Because of changing demographics, many smaller FHCs are closing with their resources being directed into \"Library Class\" facilities similar to the Los Angeles Family History Library, but not like the Riverton FamilySearch Center that has computers only.\n\nBecause most of the Family History Library film/fiche assets have been converted to digital images, microfilm distribution services will end on September 1, 2017. After that time access to microfilm/microfiche will be restricted to the Internet or to collections already at the FHC or Family History Centers.\n\nMost of the larger Family History Centers provide some type of free access to a number of online subscription databases (e.g., \"Ancestry.com\"). Mid-range FHCs may have small local book collections.\n\nThe \"Ward FHC\" is the smallest, consists of at least one computer, related family history programs, most likely Internet access, and has the most variable hours per week because it has a volunteer staff. The ward (single congregation) FHC may or may not have a dedicated room in the ward building (\"meetinghouse\"), because most buildings are designed for multiple use. Such an FHC may or may not have microfilm or microfiche readers.\n\nThe \"Stake FHC,\" which typically serves six or more ward or branch units (congregations), is the next in size and consists of two or more computers, related family history programs, Internet access, and usually offers more hours per week of service than does the ward FHC. Stake FHCs may have a small collection of CDs, books, and local historical materials. A Stake FHC usually has a dedicated room staffed by volunteers. Most have microfilm or microfiche readers and the ability to receive film/fiches from the Salt Lake City Family History Library (FHL).\n\nThe \"Multi-Stake FHC\" serves two or more stake units consisting of eight or more wards and/or branches (congregations). These have larger dedicated areas within a stake center building, or other building, for the use of the FHC. These larger FHCs have dedicated book, microfilm, and microfiche areas. They have six or more computers with phone line, cable, or satellite Internet access, family history software, and often offer the institutional version of \"Ancestry.com\", \"Fold3.com\", and some other paid-access sites. All have microfilm or microfiche readers and the ability to receive film/fiches from the Salt Lake City FHL. Most have local area family history material, but are not \"Library Class\" facilities.\n\nThe \"Regional FamilySearch Libraries\" of the Salt Lake City Family History Library are considered \"library class\" facilities. Each has a dedicated internal server and a library catalogs or card catalogs or online catalog for its collection. In 2010, the \"regional branch libraries were re-designated as \"Large Multi-Stake FHCs\"\" on the \"FamilySearch.org\" website. However a supplement to the \"Family History Center Operations Guide\" dated January 5, 2006, renamed these FHCs officially. Supervision of these facilities is under each area presidency or assigned to a member of the Presidency of the Seventy. These facilities are still considered branches of the Salt Lake City central library and often have book collections in the thousands, microfilm and microfiches in the tens of thousands, dozens of Internet-connected computers, microfilm and microfiche readers, and some digital scanners. All have dedicated servers with DSL, cable or T-1 Internet access. In addition, all had at least one multi-use classroom, and several research areas.\n\nThese branch libraries have a dedicated unpaid full-time director or a pair of directors (usually a husband-wife team) and dozens of volunteer staff members. In many cases non-church member volunteers from the community serve. Local genealogy groups often support these library facilities to the extent that the centers see non-LDS patron usage higher than local LDS usage. While the LDS Church has renamed most of them, some legacy websites reflect older names. The following is a list of Regional Family History Libraries:\n\nThe BYU Family History Library is part of the Harold B. Lee Library at Brigham Young University (BYU) in Provo, Utah. The BYU Family History Library was one of the original planned FHCs and is the largest Family History Center outside of Salt Lake City. It was formerly known as the Utah Valley Regional Family History Center. It is now semi-independent of the LDS FHC system.\n\nIn June 2010, the LDS Church closed down many smaller FHCs in the Salt Lake Valley and opened the Riverton FamilySearch Library, a misnomer, since the facility has no books and no magazines, having computers only. Whether this will be a trend for future FHCs is not known. The Riverton FamilySearch Library in Riverton, Utah has a Family Story Room available for use to record ancestor and family stories with state-of-the-art audio and video technology.\n\nThe Salt Lake City Genealogical Library was founded in 1894 to gather genealogical records and assist members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with their family history and genealogical research. It is the largest library of its kind in the world. It is open to the general public at no charge. The Family History Library is visited by an estimated 1,900 or more individual patrons each day. By 1975 there were 17 \"branch libraries\" around the world.\n\nThe library collection has 2.4 million rolls of Family History Library microfilmed genealogical records and more than 742,000 microfiches in the main system. In 2003, the collection increased monthly by an average of 4,100 rolls of film, 700 books, and 16 electronic resources. A majority of the records contain information about persons who lived before 1930. Approximately 200 cameras are currently microfilming records in more than 45 countries. Records have been filmed in more than 110 countries, territories, and possessions.\n\nThe first Family History Center (FHC), then called a branch genealogical library, was organized in the Harold B. Lee Library on Brigham Young University Campus in May, 1964. Plans to organize family history centers in Mesa, Arizona, Logan, Utah, Cardston, Alberta, and Oakland, California, each adjacent to a temples in one of those cities, had been announced at the 1963 October General Conference.\n\nThe Family History Centers were put under the overall direction of Archibald F. Bennett. By December, 1964, there were 29 FHCs, and by 1968, there were 75. In 1987, these institutions were renamed \"Family History Centers.\"\n\n\nIn the late 1990s, a \"pilot program\" to update familysearch.org and digitize its entire collection was started using volunteers to input or \"index\" census and other data. This new genealogical index is considered an upgrade. It is a work in progress representing 426 regions around the world. Millions of new names have been input by volunteers and volunteers for the project are being actively solicited at FamilySearchIndexing.org. The searchable database containing the digital images and index will be available through the LDS Church's FamilySearch website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3656336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3656336", "title": "Fascism and Freedom Movement", "text": "Fascism and Freedom Movement\n\nThe Fascism and Freedom Movement – Socialist National Party (, MFL–PSN), called simply Fascism and Freedom Movement, is an Italian fascist political party. It was formed on 25 July 1991 by senator Giorgio Pisanò.\n\nThe Fascism and Freedom Movement always remained aloof from the area of so-called neo-fascist parties, which refuses agreements and / or alliances, stressing categorically not to be classified as a right-wing party. The party makes explicit reference to the ideals of the Italian Social Republic as corporatism, the socialization of the economy, taxation and monetary nationalism. Their ideology is based entirely on the thought of fascist leader Benito Mussolini, and has as its main objective the realization of Mussolini's strongly hierarchical corporate democracy based on social credit. The party is also in favor of a presidential republic, and expresses a strong sense of anti-Americanism and anti-Zionism. Fascism and Freedom was founded in 1989 as a political movement inside the Italian Social Movement, referring to Senator Giorgio Pisano and his weekly Candido. Finally, it separated from the MSI on 25 July 1991.\nIn 2009, it added the words National Socialist Party (NSP) to its original name. The movement has been sued several times for alleged reconstitution of the dissolved National Fascist Party.\n\nIt is the only recognised party in Italy with the inscription \"Fascismo\" on its logo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1116229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1116229", "title": "Genesis creation narrative", "text": "Genesis creation narrative\n\nThe Genesis creation narrative is the creation myth of both Judaism and Christianity. The narrative is made up of two stories, roughly equivalent to the first two chapters of the Book of Genesis. In the first, Elohim (the Hebrew generic word for God) creates the heavens and the earth in six days, then rests on, blesses and sanctifies the seventh. In the second story, God, now referred to by the personal name Yahweh, creates Adam, the first man, from dust and places him in the Garden of Eden, where he is given dominion over the animals. Eve, the first woman, is created from Adam and as his companion.\n\nBorrowing themes from Mesopotamian mythology, but adapting them to the Israelite people's belief in one God, the first major comprehensive draft of the Pentateuch (the series of five books which begins with Genesis and ends with Deuteronomy) was composed in the late 7th or the 6th century BCE (the Jahwist source) and was later expanded by other authors (the Priestly source) into a work very like the one we have today. The two sources can be identified in the creation narrative: Priestly and Jahwistic. The combined narrative is a critique of the Mesopotamian theology of creation: Genesis affirms monotheism and denies polytheism. Robert Alter described the combined narrative as \"compelling in its archetypal character, its adaptation of myth to monotheistic ends\".\n\nMisunderstanding the genre of the Genesis creation narrative, meaning the intention of the author(s) and the culture within which they wrote, can result in a misreading. Bruce Waltke, a well-known evangelical scholar, cautions against one such misreading, the approach which reads it as history rather than theology and so leads to Creationism and the denial of evolution. As noted scholar of Jewish studies, Jon D. Levenson, puts it:\n\nAlthough tradition attributes Genesis to Moses, biblical scholars hold that it, together with the following four books (making up what Jews call the Torah and biblical scholars call the Pentateuch), is \"a composite work, the product of many hands and periods.\" A common hypothesis among biblical scholars today is that the first major comprehensive draft of the Pentateuch was composed in the late 7th or the 6th century BCE (the Jahwist source), and that this was later expanded by the addition of various narratives and laws (the Priestly source) into a work very like the one existing today.\n\nAs for the historical background which led to the creation of the narrative itself, a theory which has gained considerable interest, although still controversial, is \"Persian imperial authorisation\". This proposes that the Persians, after their conquest of Babylon in 538 BCE, agreed to grant Jerusalem a large measure of local autonomy within the empire, but required the local authorities to produce a single law code accepted by the entire community. It further proposes that there were two powerful groups in the community – the priestly families who controlled the Temple, and the landowning families who made up the \"elders\" – and that these two groups were in conflict over many issues, and that each had its own \"history of origins\", but the Persian promise of greatly increased local autonomy for all provided a powerful incentive to cooperate in producing a single text.\n\nThe creation narrative is made up of two stories, roughly equivalent to the two first chapters of the Book of Genesis. (There are no chapter divisions in the original Hebrew text, see Chapters and verses of the Bible.) The first account (1:1 through 2:3) employs a repetitious structure of divine fiat and fulfillment, then the statement \"And there was evening and there was morning, the [\"x\"] day,\" for each of the six days of creation. In each of the first three days there is an act of division: day one divides the darkness from light, day two the \"waters above\" from the \"waters below\", and day three the sea from the land. In each of the next three days these divisions are populated: day four populates the darkness and light with sun, moon and stars; day five populates seas and skies with fish and fowl; and finally land-based creatures and mankind populate the land.\n\nThe primary accounts in each chapter are joined by a literary bridge at Genesis 2:4|, \"These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created.\" This echoes the first line of Genesis 1, \"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth\", and is reversed in the next phrase, \"...in the day that the God made the earth and the heavens\". This verse is one of ten \"generations\" ( \"\") phrases used throughout Genesis, which provide a literary structure to the book. They normally function as headings to what comes after, but the position of this, the first of the series, has been the subject of much debate.\n\nComparative mythology provides historical and cross-cultural perspectives for Jewish mythology. Both sources behind the Genesis creation narrative borrowed themes from Mesopotamian mythology, but adapted them to their belief in one God, establishing a monotheistic creation in opposition to the polytheistic creation myth of ancient Israel's neighbors.\n\nGenesis 1–11 as a whole is imbued with Mesopotamian myths. Genesis 1 bears both striking differences from and striking similarities to Babylon's national creation myth, the Enuma Elish. On the side of similarities, both begin from a stage of chaotic waters before anything is created, in both a fixed dome-shaped \"firmament\" divides these waters from the habitable Earth, and both conclude with the creation of a human called \"man\" and the building of a temple for the god (in Genesis 1, this temple is the entire cosmos). On the side of contrasts, Genesis 1 is monotheistic, it makes no attempt to account for the origins of God, and there is no trace of the resistance to the reduction of chaos to order (Gk. theomachy, lit. \"God-fighting\"), all of which mark the Mesopotamian creation accounts. Still, Genesis 1 bears similarities to the Baal Cycle of Israel's neighbor, Ugarit.\n\nThe Enuma Elish has also left traces on Genesis 2. Both begin with a series of statements of what did not exist at the moment when creation began; the Enuma Elish has a spring (in the sea) as the point where creation begins, paralleling the spring (on the land – Genesis 2 is notable for being a \"dry\" creation story) in Genesis 2:6 that \"watered the whole face of the ground\"; in both myths, Yahweh/the gods first create a man to serve him/them, then animals and vegetation. At the same time, and as with Genesis 1, the Jewish version has drastically changed its Babylonian model: Eve, for example, seems to fill the role of a mother goddess when, in Genesis 4:1, she says that she has \"created a man with Yahweh\", but she is not a divine being like her Babylonian counterpart.\n\nGenesis 2 has close parallels with a second Mesopotamian myth, the Atra-Hasis epic – parallels that in fact extend throughout Genesis 2–11, from the Creation to the Flood and its aftermath. The two share numerous plot-details (e.g. the divine garden and the role of the first man in the garden, the creation of the man from a mixture of earth and divine substance, the chance of immortality, etc.), and have a similar overall theme: the gradual clarification of man's relationship with God(s) and animals.\n\nThe Garden of Eden story is compared to the Sumerian myth in which the goddess Ninhursag created a beautiful garden full of lush vegetation and fruit trees, called Edinu, in Dilmun, the Sumerian earthly Paradise, a place which the Sumerians believed to exist to the east of their own land, beyond the sea. Ninhursag charged Enki, her lover and half brother, with controlling the wild animals and tending the garden, but Enki became curious about the garden, and his assistant, Adapa, selected seven plants (eight in some versions) and offered them to Enki, who ate them. This enraged Ninhursag, and she caused Enki to fall ill. Enki felt pain in his rib, which is a pun in Sumerian, as the word \"'\" means both \"rib\" and \"life\". The other deities persuaded Ninhursag to relent. Ninhursag then created a new goddess (seven or eight to heal his seven or eight ailing organs, including his rib), who was named Ninti, (a name composed of \"'\", or \"lady\", and \"\", and which may be translated both as \"Lady of Living\" and \"Lady of the Rib\"), to cure Enki Some scholars suggest that this served as the basis for the story of Eve as \"the mother of life\" and lady of the rib, created from Adam's rib in the Book of Genesis.\n\nThe narratives in Genesis 1 and 2 were not the only creation myths in ancient Israel, and the complete biblical evidence suggests two contrasting models. The first is the \"logos\" (meaning speech) model, where a supreme God \"speaks\" dormant matter into existence. The second is the \"agon\" (meaning struggle or combat) model, in which it is God's victory in battle over the monsters of the sea that mark his sovereignty and might. Genesis 1 is an example of creation by speech, while Psalm 74 and Isaiah 51 are examples of the \"agon\" mythology, recalling a Canaanite myth in which God creates the world by vanquishing the water deities: \"Awake, awake! ... It was you that hacked Rahab in pieces, that pierced the Dragon! It was you that dried up the Sea, the waters of the great Deep, that made the abysses of the Sea a road that the redeemed might walk...\"\n\nThe cosmos created in Genesis 1 bears a striking resemblance to the Tabernacle in Exodus 35–40, which was the prototype of the Temple in Jerusalem and the focus of priestly worship of Yahweh; for this reason, and because other Middle Eastern creation stories also climax with the construction of a temple/house for the creator-god, Genesis 1 can be interpreted as a description of the construction of the cosmos as God's house, for which the Temple in Jerusalem served as the earthly representative.\n\nThe word \"bara\" is translated as \"created\" in English, but the concept it embodied was not the same as the modern term: in the world of the ancient Near East, the gods demonstrated their power over the world not by creating matter but by fixing destinies, so that the essence of the \"bara\" which God performs in Genesis concerns bringing \"heaven and earth\" (a set phrase meaning \"everything\") into existence by organising and assigning roles and functions.\n\nThe use of numbers in ancient texts was often numerological rather than factual – that is, the numbers were used because they held some symbolic value to the author. The number seven, denoting divine completion, permeates Genesis 1: verse 1:1 consists of seven words, verse 1:2 of fourteen, and 2:1–3 has 35 words (5x7); Elohim is mentioned 35 times, \"heaven/firmament\" and \"earth\" 21 times each, and the phrases \"and it was so\" and \"God saw that it was good\" occur 7 times each.\n\nAlthough the opening phrase of is commonly translated in English as above, the Hebrew is ambiguous, and can be translated at least three ways:\n\nThe second seems to be the meaning intended by the original Priestly author: the verb \"bara\" is used only of God (people do not engage in \"bara\"), and it concerns the assignment of roles, as in the creation of the first people as \"male and female\" (i.e., it allocates them sexes): in other words, the power of God is being shown not by the creation of matter but by the fixing of destinies.\n\n\"The heavens and the earth\" is a set phrase meaning \"everything\", i.e., the cosmos. This was made up of three levels, the habitable earth in the middle, the heavens above, an underworld below, all surrounded by a watery \"ocean\" of chaos as the Babylonian \"Tiamat\". The earth itself was a flat disc, surrounded by mountains or sea. Above it was the firmament, a transparent but solid dome resting on the mountains, allowing men to see the blue of the waters above, with \"windows\" to allow the rain to enter, and containing the sun, moon and stars. The waters extended below the earth, which rested on pillars sunk in the waters, and in the underworld was Sheol, the abode of the dead.\n\nThe opening of Genesis 1 continues: \"And the earth was formless and void...\" The phrase \"formless and void\" is a translation of the Hebrew \"\", (), chaos, the condition that \"bara\", ordering, remedies. \"Tohu\" by itself means \"emptiness, futility\"; it is used to describe the desert wilderness; \"bohu\" has no known meaning and was apparently coined to rhyme with and reinforce \"tohu\". The phrase appears also in Jeremiah 4:23 where the prophet warns Israel that rebellion against God will lead to the return of darkness and chaos, \"as if the earth had been 'uncreated'\".\n\nThe opening of Genesis 1 concludes with a statement that \"\"darkness\" was on the face of the \"deep\"\" ( '), [the] \"darkness\" and the \"deep\" being two of the three elements of the chaos represented in ' (the third is the \"formless earth\"). In the Enuma Elish, the \"deep\" is personified as the goddess Tiamat, the enemy of Marduk; here it is the \"formless body of primeval water surrounding the habitable world\", later to be released during the Deluge, when \"all the fountains of the great deep burst forth\" from the waters beneath the earth and from the \"windows\" of the sky.\n\nThe \"Rûach\" of God moves over the face of the \"deep\" before creation begins. \"Rûach\" () has the meanings \"wind, spirit, breath\", and ' can mean \"great\" as well as \"god\": the ' may therefore mean the \"wind/breath of God\" (the storm-wind is God's breath in Psalms 18:16 and elsewhere, and the wind of God returns in the Flood story as the means by which God restores the earth), or God's \"spirit\", a concept which is somewhat vague in Hebrew Bible, or it may simply signify a great storm-wind.\n\nGod's first act was the creation of undifferentiated light; dark and light were then separated into night and day, their order (evening before morning) signifying that this was the liturgical day; and then the sun, moon and stars were created to mark the proper times for the festivals of the week and year. Only when this is done does God create man and woman and the means to sustain them (plants and animals). At the end of the sixth day, when creation is complete, the world is a cosmic temple in which the role of humanity is the worship of God. This parallels Mesopotamian myth (the \"Enuma Elish\") and also echoes chapter 38 of the Book of Job, where God recalls how the stars, the \"sons of God\", sang when the corner-stone of creation was laid.\n\nDay 1 begins with the creation of light (and, by implication, time). God creates by spoken command and names the elements of the world as he creates them. In the ancient Near East the act of naming was bound up with the act of creating: thus in Egyptian literature the creator god pronounced the names of everything, and the Enûma Elish begins at the point where nothing has yet been named. God's creation by speech also suggests that he is being compared to a king, who has merely to speak for things to happen.\n\n\"Rāqîa‘\", the word translated as firmament, is from \"rāqa‘,\" the verb used for the act of beating metal into thin plates. Created on the second day of creation and populated by luminaries on the fourth, it is a solid dome which separates the earth below from the heavens and their waters above, as in Egyptian and Mesopotamian belief of the same time. In Genesis 1:17 the stars are set in the \"raqia‘\"; in Babylonian myth the heavens were made of various precious stones (compare Exodus 24:10 where the elders of Israel see God on the sapphire floor of heaven), with the stars engraved in their surface.\n\nOn the third day, the waters withdraw, creating a ring of ocean surrounding a single circular continent. By the end of the third day God has created a foundational environment of light, heavens, seas and earth. The three levels of the cosmos are next populated in the same order in which they were created – heavens, sea, earth.\n\nGod does not create or make trees and plants, but instead commands the earth to produce them. The underlying theological meaning seems to be that God has given the previously barren earth the ability to produce vegetation, and it now does so at his command. \"According to (one's) kind\" appears to look forward to the laws found later in the Pentateuch, which lay great stress on holiness through separation.\n\nOn Day Four the language of \"ruling\" is introduced: the heavenly bodies will \"govern\" day and night and mark seasons and years and days (a matter of crucial importance to the Priestly authors, as religious festivals were organised around the cycles of the sun and moon); later, man will be created to rule over the whole of creation as God's regent. God puts \"lights\" in the firmament to \"rule over\" the day and the night. Specifically, God creates the \"greater light,\" the \"lesser light,\" and the stars. According to Victor Hamilton, most scholars agree that the choice of \"greater light\" and \"lesser light\", rather than the more explicit \"sun\" and \"moon\", is anti-mythological rhetoric intended to contradict widespread contemporary beliefs that the sun and the moon were deities themselves.\n\nIn the Egyptian and Mesopotamian mythologies, the creator-god has to do battle with the sea-monsters before he can make heaven and earth; in Genesis 1:21, the word \"tannin\", sometimes translated as \"sea monsters\" or \"great creatures\", parallels the named chaos-monsters Rahab and Leviathan from Psalm 74:13, and Isaiah 27:1, and Isaiah 51:9, but there is no hint (in Genesis) of combat, and the \"tannin\" are simply creatures created by God.\n\nWhen in Genesis 1:26 God says \"Let us make man\", the Hebrew word used is \"adam\"; in this form it is a generic noun, \"mankind\", and does not imply that this creation is male. After this first mention the word always appears as \"ha-adam\", \"the man\", but as Genesis 1:27 shows (\"So God created man in his \"[own]\" image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.\"), the word is still not exclusively male.\n\nMan was created in the \"image of God\". The meaning of this is unclear: suggestions include:\n\nThe fact that God says \"Let \"us\" make man...\" has given rise to several theories, of which the two most important are that \"us\" is majestic plural, or that it reflects a setting in a divine council with God enthroned as king and proposing the creation of mankind to the lesser divine beings.\n\nGod tells the animals and humans that he has given them \"the green plants for food\" creation is to be vegetarian. Only later, after the Flood, is man given permission to eat flesh. The Priestly author of Genesis appears to look back to an ideal past in which mankind lived at peace both with itself and with the animal kingdom, and which could be re-achieved through a proper sacrificial life in harmony with God.\n\nUpon completion, God sees that \"every thing that He had made ... was very good\" (). This implies that the materials that existed before the Creation (\"\"tohu wa-bohu\",\" \"darkness,\" \"tehom\") were not \"very good.\" Israel Knohl hypothesized that the Priestly source set up this dichotomy to mitigate the problem of evil.\n\nCreation is followed by rest. In ancient Near Eastern literature the divine rest is achieved in a temple as a result of having brought order to chaos. Rest is both disengagement, as the work of creation is finished, but also engagement, as the deity is now present in his temple to maintain a secure and ordered cosmos. Compare with Exodus 20:8–20:11: \"Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work; but the seventh day is a sabbath unto the LORD thy God, in it thou shalt not do any manner of work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day; wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.\"\n\nGenesis 2–3, the Garden of Eden story, was probably authored around 500 BCE as \"a discourse on ideals in life, the danger in human glory, and the fundamentally ambiguous nature of humanity – especially human mental faculties\". The Garden in which the action takes place lies on the mythological border between the human and the divine worlds, probably on the far side of the Cosmic ocean near the rim of the world; following a conventional ancient Near Eastern concept, the Eden river first forms that ocean and then divides into four rivers which run from the four corners of the earth towards its centre.\nIt opens \"in the day that the God made the earth and the heavens\", a set introduction similar to those found in Babylonian myths. Before the man is created the earth is a barren waste watered by an \"ed\"; Genesis 2:6 the King James Version translated this as \"mist\", following Jewish practice, but since the mid-20th century Hebraists have generally accepted that the real meaning is \"spring of underground water\".\n\nIn Genesis 1 the characteristic word for God's activity is \"bara\", \"created\"; in Genesis 2 the word used when he creates the man is \"yatsar\", meaning \"fashioned\", a word used in contexts such as a potter fashioning a pot from clay. God breathes his own breath into the clay and it becomes \"nephesh\", a word meaning \"life\", \"vitality\", \"the living personality\"; man shares \"nephesh\" with all creatures, but the text describes this life-giving act by God only in relation to man.\n\nEden, where God puts his Garden of Eden, comes from a root meaning \"fertility\": the first man is to work in God's miraculously fertile garden. The \"tree of life\" is a motif from Mesopotamian myth: in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" the hero is given a plant whose name is \"man becomes young in old age\", but a serpent steals the plant from him. There has been much scholarly discussion about the type of knowledge given by the second tree. Suggestions include: human qualities, sexual consciousness, ethical knowledge, or universal knowledge; with the last being the most widely accepted. In Eden, mankind has a choice between wisdom and life, and chooses the first, although God intended them for the second.\n\nThe mythic Eden and its rivers may represent the real Jerusalem, the Temple and the Promised Land. Eden may represent the divine garden on Zion, the mountain of God, which was also Jerusalem; while the real Gihon was a spring outside the city (mirroring the spring which waters Eden); and the imagery of the Garden, with its serpent and cherubs, has been seen as a reflection of the real images of the Solomonic Temple with its copper serpent (the nehushtan) and guardian cherubs. Genesis 2 is the only place in the Bible where Eden appears as a geographic location: elsewhere (notably in the Book of Ezekiel) it is a mythological place located on the holy Mountain of God, with echoes of a Mesopotamian myth of the king as a primordial man placed in a divine garden to guard the tree of life.\n\n\"Good and evil\" is a merism, in this case meaning simply \"everything\", but it may also have a moral connotation. When God forbids the man to eat from the tree of knowledge he says that if he does so he is \"doomed to die\": the Hebrew behind this is in the form used in the Bible for issuing death sentences.\n\nThe first woman is created to be \"ezer kenegdo\" – a term notably difficult to translate – to the man. \"Kenegdo\" means \"alongside, opposite, a counterpart to him\", and \"ezer\" means active intervention on behalf of the other person. God's naming of the elements of the cosmos in Genesis 1 illustrated his authority over creation; now the man's naming of the animals (and of Woman) illustrates Adam's authority within creation.\n\nThe woman is called \"ishah\", \"Woman\", with an explanation that this is because she was taken from \"ish\", meaning \"man\"; the two words are not in fact connected. Later, after the story of the Garden is complete, she receives a name: \"Hawwah\" (Eve). This means \"living\" in Hebrew, from a root that can also mean \"snake\". The word traditionally translated \"rib\" in English can also mean \"side\", \"chamber\", or \"beam\". A long-standing exegetical tradition holds that the use of a rib from man's side emphasizes that both man and woman have equal dignity, for woman was created from the same material as man, shaped and given life by the same processes. Medieval homilies about marriage as a sacrament stated that Eve was made from a more noble material (\"the better half\") than Adam;\n\nThe meaning to be derived from the Genesis creation narrative will depend on the reader's understanding of its genre, the literary \"type\" to which it belongs: \"it makes an enormous difference whether the first chapters of Genesis are read as scientific cosmology, creation myth, or historical saga\". Misunderstanding of the genre of the text, meaning the intention of the author/s and the culture within which they wrote, will result in a misreading. Reformed evangelical scholar Bruce Waltke cautions against one such misreading, the \"woodenly literal\" approach which leads to \"creation science\" and such \"implausible interpretations\" as the \"gap theory\", the presumption of a \"young earth\", and the denial of evolution. Another scholar, Conrad Hyers, sums up the same thought in these words: \"A literalist interpretation of the Genesis accounts is inappropriate, misleading, and unworkable [because] it presupposes and insists upon a kind of literature and intention that is not there.\"\n\nWhatever else it may be, Genesis 1 is \"story\", since it features character and characterisation, a narrator, and dramatic tension expressed through a series of incidents arranged in time. The Priestly author of Genesis 1 had to confront two major difficulties. First, there is the fact that since only God exists at this point, no-one was available to be the narrator; the storyteller solved this by introducing an unobtrusive \"third person narrator\". Second, there was the problem of conflict: conflict is necessary to arouse the reader's interest in the story, yet with nothing else existing, neither a chaos-monster nor another god, there cannot be any conflict. This was solved by creating a very minimal tension: God is opposed by nothingness itself, the blank of the world \"without form and void.\" Telling the story in this way was a deliberate choice: there are a number of creation stories in the Bible, but they tend to be told in the first person, by Wisdom, the instrument by which God created the world; the choice of omniscient third-person narrator in the Genesis narrative allows the storyteller to create the impression that everything is being told and nothing held back.\n\nIt can also be regarded as ancient history, \"part of a broader spectrum of originally anonymous, history-like ancient Near Eastern narratives.\" It is frequently called myth in scholarly writings, but there is no agreement on how \"myth\" is to be defined, and so while Brevard Childs famously suggested that the author of Genesis 1–11 \"demythologised\" his narrative, meaning that he removed from his sources (the Babylonian myths) those elements which did not fit with his own faith, others can say it is entirely mythical.\n\nGenesis 1–2 can be seen as ancient science: in the words of E.A. Speiser, \"on the subject of creation biblical tradition aligned itself with the traditional tenets of Babylonian science.\" The opening words of Genesis 1, \"In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth\", sum up the author(s) belief that Yahweh, the god of Israel, was solely responsible for creation and had no rivals. Later Jewish thinkers, adopting ideas from Greek philosophy, concluded that God's Wisdom, Word and Spirit penetrated all things and gave them unity. Christianity in turn adopted these ideas and identified Jesus with the creative word: \"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God\" (). When the Jews came into contact with Greek thought it led to a major reinterpretation of the underlying cosmology of the Genesis narrative. The biblical authors conceived the cosmos as a flat disc-shaped earth in the centre, an underworld for the dead below, and heaven above. Below the earth were the \"waters of chaos\", the cosmic sea, home to mythic monsters defeated and slain by God; in Exodus 20:4, God warns against making an image \"of anything that is in the waters under the earth\". There were also waters above the earth, and so the \"raqia\" (firmament), a solid bowl, was necessary to keep them from flooding the world. During the Hellenistic period this was largely replaced by a more \"scientific\" model as imagined by Greek philosophers, according to which the earth was a sphere at the centre of concentric shells of celestial spheres containing the sun, moon, stars and planets.\n\nThe idea that God created the world out of nothing (\"creatio ex nihilo\") is central today to Islam, Christianity, and Judaism – indeed, the medieval Jewish philosopher Maimonides felt it was the only concept that the three religions shared – yet it is not found directly in Genesis, nor in the entire Hebrew Bible. The Priestly authors of Genesis 1 were concerned not with the origins of matter (the material which God formed into the habitable cosmos), but with assigning roles so that the Cosmos should function. This was still the situation in the early 2nd century AD, although early Christian scholars were beginning to see a tension between the idea of world-formation and the omnipotence of God; by the beginning of the 3rd century this tension was resolved, world-formation was overcome, and creation \"ex nihilo\" had become a fundamental tenet of Christian theology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11686565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11686565", "title": "GeoNames", "text": "GeoNames\n\nGeoNames is a geographical database available and accessible through various web services, under a Creative Commons attribution license.\n\nThe GeoNames database contains over 25,000,000 geographical names corresponding to over 11,800,000 unique features. All features are categorized into one of nine feature classes and further subcategorized into one of 645 feature codes. Beyond names of places in various languages, data stored include latitude, longitude, elevation, population, administrative subdivision and postal codes. All coordinates use the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS84).\n\nThose data are accessible free of charge through a number of Web services and a daily database export.\n\nThe core of GeoNames database is provided by official public sources, the quality of which may vary. Through a wiki interface, users are invited to manually edit and improve the database by adding or correcting names, move existing features, add new features, etc.\n\nEach GeoNames feature is represented as a web resource identified by a stable URI. This URI provides access, through content negotiation, either to the HTML wiki page, or to a RDF description of the feature, using elements of the GeoNames ontology. This ontology describes the GeoNames features properties using the Web Ontology Language, the feature classes and codes being described in the SKOS language.\nThrough Wikipedia articles URL linked in the RDF descriptions, GeoNames data are linked to DBpedia data and other RDF Linked Data.\n\nAs in other crowdsourcing schemes, GeoNames edit interface allows everyone to sign in and edit the database, hence false information can be entered and such information can remain undetected especially for places that are not accessed frequently. studies these inaccuracies and classifies them into loss in the granularity of coordinates (e.g., due to truncation and low-resolution geocoding in some cases), wrong feature codes, near-identical places, and the placement of places outside their designated countries.\nManually correcting these inaccuracies is both tedious and error prone (due to the database size) and may require experts.\n\nThe literature provides very few works on automatically resolving them either.\nComputing the boundary information can help detect inconsistencies such as near-identical places and the placement of locations such as cities under wrong parents such as provinces or countries. Singh and Rafiei show that the boundary information derived in their work can move more than 20% of locations in GeoNames to better positions in the spatial hierarchy and the accuracy of those moves is over 90%.\n\n"}
{"id": "43472123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43472123", "title": "German Football Museum", "text": "German Football Museum\n\nThe German Football Museum () aka DFB-Museum is the national museum for German football in Dortmund, Germany. It was opened on 23 October 2015.\n\nAfter the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, the DFB decided to fund from the profits of the World Cup, the establishment of a national German football museum. From 14 cities that had applied as a location for the football museum DFB board elected in May 2007, the cities of Cologne, Oberhausen, Gelsenkirchen and Dortmund and decided to order for a site in the most populous state North Rhine-Westphalia. In an extraordinary Bundestag of the DFB on 24 April 2009, the delegates chose the downtown area south near the Dortmund Hauptbahnhof, which had been used until the start of construction of the museum as a bus station.\nConstruction of the museum began in September 2012; took place in the presence of DFB president on 20 September, Wolfgang Niersbach and Prime Minister Hannelore Kraft of the ground-breaking ceremony.\n\nThe groundbreaking ceremony took place on 29 April 2013. Present were among others Wolfgang Niersbach, Reinhard Rauball and Ute Schäfer. A year later, in 2014, the topping-out ceremony was celebrated.\n\nThe German Football Museum is located close to the main train station and is part of an art and culture mile between the creative center Dortmunder U and the Konzerthaus Dortmund .\n\nAn architectural competition was advertised for the building.\n\nFollowing an international architectural competition announced by the city of Dortmund, three designs were awarded on 4 May 2011 by the jury of the architectural competition from 24 works. A full winning design did not exist. The judges awarded instead a price group of three equal awards to architects HPP Hentrich-Petschnigg + Partner (Düsseldorf), ARGE Petersen BWM Architekten und Partner (Dortmund) and pmp Architekten (Munich). In addition, the jury awarded recognitions of their work on the office Bolles + Wilson (Münster), LOOC / M (Frankfurt / Main) and Schulte-Frohlind (Berlin).\n\nOn 29 June 2011 the city of Dortmund and the DFB football museum was announced at a joint press conference that the office HPP Hentrich-Petschnigg + Partner, Düsseldorf and pmp Architekten, Munich equal footing, occupy first place in the international architectural competition. The ARGE Petersen BWM Architekten und Partner, Dortmund, reached third place. Following the recommendation of the jury was in talks the final winning design determined and published on 26 September 2011 in the daily press.\n\n"}
{"id": "52060609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52060609", "title": "Getty Center Monorail", "text": "Getty Center Monorail\n\nThe Getty Center Monorail, also known as Getty Center Tram, is an Otis Hovair monorail of the U.S. city of Los Angeles serving the Getty Center. It is an electric, cable-driven hovertrain, with a fleet of 6 people movers divided in 2 convoys of 3 cars each.\n\nThe railway line, already planned in 1988, was opened at the end of 1997, following the inauguration of the Getty Center.\n\nThe line, located north of Brentwood, in the Westside Region of Los Angeles, links a freeway-level parking garage to the Getty Center, which includes the J. Paul Getty Museum. The duration of a ride is about 3 to 4 minutes and the distance is about .\n\nThe lower station (), at the bottom of the hill, lies beside Sepulveda Boulevard and the San Diego Freeway. The upper station (), at the top of the hill, is located in the arrival plaza of the Getty Center and is part of the structure. The line follows Getty Center Drive and has a passing loop in the middle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47861205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47861205", "title": "Guide Hachette des Vins", "text": "Guide Hachette des Vins\n\nThe Guide Hachette des Vins is a French wine buying guide published by Hachette Livre (Hachette Pratique). Its first edition was released in 1985. It is France's best-selling wine guide and one of France's oldest. The Guide Hachette des Vins is considered to be France' most authoritative guide and commonly referred to as the bible of the French wine industry.\n\nThe Guide Hachette uses blind tasting panels to evaluate wines by appellation. Each year 40,000 wines are tasted blind and rated by experts.\n\nNo fee is required to submit samples. Only the most recently bottled vintage is allowed to be submitted for blind tasting.\n\nWine tastings are organized locally in each region between January and May. Blind tasting sessions composed of a panel wine professionals (enologists, wine merchants, wine brokers, sommeliers) are organized with the Syndicat Viticole or Winegrower's Syndicate of each appellation present in the guide.\n\nEach wine is rated on a scale of 0 to 5.\nThe top rated wines are subject to a second round of blind tasting. After the second tasting, the panel votes on one or two wines to receive \"Coup de Coeur\" [Judges' Favorite]. The \"Coup de Coeur\" is considered to be the highest recommendation.\n\nThe 2016 edition covers:\n"}
{"id": "25911241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25911241", "title": "HPC Challenge Benchmark", "text": "HPC Challenge Benchmark\n\nHPC Challenge Benchmark combines several benchmarks to test a number of independent attributes of the performance of high-performance computer (HPC) systems. The project has been co-sponsored by the DARPA High Productivity Computing Systems program, the United States Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation.\n\nThe performance of complex applications on HPC systems can depend on a variety of independent performance attributes of the hardware. The HPC Challenge Benchmark is an effort to improve visibility into this multidimensional space by combining the measurement of several of these attributes into a single program.\n\nAlthough the performance attributes of interest are not specific to any particular computer architecture, the reference implementation of the HPC Challenge Benchmark in C and MPI assumes that the system under test is a cluster of shared memory multiprocessor systems connected by a network. Due to this assumption of a hierarchical system structure most of the tests are run in several different modes of operation. Following the notation used by the benchmark reports, results labeled \"single\" mean that the test was run on one randomly chosen processor in the system, results labeled \"star\" mean that an independent copy of the test was run concurrently on each processor in the system, and results labeled \"global\" mean that all the processors were working in coordination to solve a single problem (with data distributed across the nodes of the system).\n\nThe benchmark currently consists of 7 tests (with the modes of operation indicated for each):\n\nAt a high level, the tests are intended to provide coverage of four important attributes of performance: double-precision floating-point arithmetic (DGEMM and HPL), local memory bandwidth (STREAM), network bandwidth for \"large\" messages (PTRANS, RandomAccess, FFT, b_eff), and network bandwidth for \"small\" messages (RandomAccess, b_eff). Some of the codes are more complex than others and can have additional performance sensitivities. For example, in some systems HPL performance can be limited by network bandwidth and/or network latency.\n\nThe annual HPC Challenge Award Competition at the Supercomputing Conference focuses on four of the most challenging benchmarks in the suite: \nThere are two classes of awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2155531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155531", "title": "Handbook of the Birds of the World", "text": "Handbook of the Birds of the World\n\nThe Handbook of the Birds of the World (HBW) is a multi-volume series produced by the Spanish publishing house Lynx Edicions in partnership with BirdLife International. It is the first handbook to cover every known living species of bird. The series is edited by Josep del Hoyo, Andrew Elliott, Jordi Sargatal and David A. Christie.\n\nAll 16 volumes have been published. For the first time an animal class will have all the species illustrated and treated in detail in a single work. This has not been done before for any other group in the animal kingdom.\n\nMaterial in each volume is grouped first by family, with an introductory article on each family; this is followed by individual species accounts (taxonomy, subspecies and distribution, descriptive notes, habitat, food and feeding, breeding, movements, status and conservation, bibliography). In addition, all volumes except the first and second contain an essay on a particular ornithological theme. More than 200 renowned specialists and 35 illustrators (including Toni Llobet, Hilary Burn, Chris Rose and H. Douglas Pratt) from more than 40 countries have contributed to the project up to now, as well as 834 photographers from all over the world.\n\nSince the first volume appeared in 1992, the series has received various international awards. The first volume was selected as Bird Book of the Year by the magazines \"Birdwatch\" and \"British Birds\", and the fifth volume was recognised as Outstanding Academic Title by \"Choice Magazine\", the American Library Association magazine. The seventh volume, as well as being named Bird Book of the Year by \"Birdwatch\" and \"British Birds\", also received the distinction of Best Bird Reference Book in the 2002 WorldTwitch Book Awards This same distinction was also awarded to Volume 8 a year later in 2003.\n\nIndividual volumes are large, measuring , and weighing between ; it has been commented in a review that \"fork-lift truck book\" would be a more appropriate title.\n\nAs a complement to the \"Handbook of the Birds of the World\" and with the ultimate goal of disseminating knowledge about the world's avifauna, in 2002 Lynx Edicions started the Internet Bird Collection (IBC). It is a free-access, but not free-licensed, on-line audiovisual library of the world's birds with the aim of posting videos, photos and sound recordings showing a variety of biological aspects (e.g. subspecies, plumages, feeding, breeding, etc.) for every species. It is a non-profit endeavour fuelled by material from more than one hundred contributors from around the world.\n\nIn early 2013, Lynx Edicions launched the online database HBW Alive, which includes the volume and family introductions and updated species accounts from all 17 published HBW volumes. Since its launch, the taxonomy has been thoroughly revised and updated twice (once for non-passerines and once for passerines), following the publication of the two volumes of the \"HBW and BirdLife International Illustrated Checklist of the Birds of the World\".\n\nThe Handbook of the Birds of the World Alive site also provides a free access 'Key to Scientific Names in Ornithology'.\n\nA list of volumes of the \"Handbook of the Birds of the World\" produced to date is as follows:\n\nThis volume was published in 1992. Unlike subsequent volumes, it does not have an introductory essay; instead, it has a 38-page overview by Eduardo de Juana of the biology of birds and a foreword welcoming the HBW project, by Christoph Imboden. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 1994. It has a foreword by Walter J. Bock on the organization of information in HBW. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 1996. It has an foreword by Robert Bateman on \"art and nature\". Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 1997. It has an introductory essay \"Species Concepts and Species Limits in Ornithology\" by Jürgen Haffer. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\n\nThis volume was published in 1999. It has an introductory essay \"Risk Indicators and Status Assessment in Birds\" by Nigel J. Collar. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 2001. It has an introductory essay \"Avian Bioacoustics\" by Luis Baptista and Don Kroodsma. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 2002. It has an introductory essay \"Extinct Birds\" by Errol Fuller. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\n\nThis volume was published in 2003. It has an introductory essay \"A Brief History of Classifying Birds\" by Murray Bruce. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 2004. It has an introductory essay \"Ornithological Nomenclature\" by Richard Banks. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in 2005. It has an introductory essay \"The Ecology and Impact of Non-Indigenous Birds\" by Daniel Sol, Tim Blackburn, Phillip Cassey, Richard Duncan and Jordi Clavell. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in September 2006. It has an introductory essay \"Ecological Significance of Bird Populations\" by Cagan Sekercioglu with a preface by Paul R. Ehrlich. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in October 2007. It includes a foreword on fossil birds by Kevin J. Caley. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in October 2008. It includes an introductory essay on bird migration by Ian Newton. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in October 2009. It includes the foreword \"Birding Past, Present and Future – a Global View\" by Stephen Moss. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in October 2010. It includes a foreword on bird conservation by Stuart Butchart, Nigel Collar, Alison Stattersfield, and Leon Bennun. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in December 2011. It includes a foreword on climate change and birds by Anders Pape Møller. Groups covered in this volume are as follows:\nThis volume was published in July 2013. It includes a comprehensive introduction by Jon Fjeldså on changes in bird macrosystematics and a foreword on the history of BirdLife International. It covers 84 new species published more recently than their corresponding HBW volumes, including 15 scientific descriptions of newly discovered Amazonian birds.\n\nThis volume was published in July 2014. It depicts all non-passerines with drawings and maps, including all extinct species since the year 1500.\n\nThis volume was published in December 2016. It depicts all passerines with drawings and maps, including all extinct species since the year 1500.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13131980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13131980", "title": "HistoryLink", "text": "HistoryLink\n\nHistoryLink is a website that is an encyclopedia of Washington State history. The site has nearly 7,000 entries and attracts 5,000 daily visitors. It has 500 biographies and more than 14,000 images.\n\nThe non-profit historical organization History Ink produces HistoryLink.org, stating that it is the nation's first online encyclopedia of local and state history created expressly for the Internet. Walt Crowley was the founding president and executive director.\n\nIn 1997, Crowley discussed preparing a Seattle-King County historical encyclopedia for the 2001 sesquicentennial of the Denny Party. His wife Marie McCaffrey suggested publishing the encyclopedia on the Internet.\n\nThey and Paul Dorpat incorporated History Ink on November 10, 1997, with seed money from Priscilla \"Patsy\" Collins, by birth a member of Seattle's wealthy and prominent Bullitt family. The prototype of HistoryLink.org debuted on May 1, 1998, and attracted additional funding for a formal launch in 1999. In 2003 HistoryLink.org expanded its content to cover Washington state history. Meanwhile, History Ink continues, focusing on the production of history books.\n\nCrowley and HistoryLink.org have won many awards, including\n\n"}
{"id": "12297557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12297557", "title": "Houghton Library", "text": "Houghton Library\n\nHoughton Library, on the south side of Harvard Yard adjacent to Widener Library, is Harvard University's primary repository for rare books and manuscripts. It is part of the Harvard College Library, the library system of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHarvard's first special collections library began as the Treasure Room of Gore Hall in 1908. The Treasure Room moved to Widener Library after that library was completed in 1915. In March 1938, looking to supply Harvard's most valuable collections with more space and improved storage conditions, Harvard College Librarian Keyes DeWitt Metcalf presented the Harvard Corporation with a set of proposals which would eventually lead to the creation of Houghton Library, Lamont Library, and the New England Deposit Library. Funding for Houghton was raised privately, with the largest portion coming from Arthur A. Houghton Jr., in the form of shares of stock in Corning Glass Works. Construction was largely completed by the fall of 1941, and the library opened on February 28, 1942.\n\nHoughton holds collections of papers of Samuel Johnson, Emily Dickinson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Margaret Fuller, John Keats, Ralph Waldo Emerson and his family, Amos Bronson Alcott and his daughter Louisa May Alcott, along with the papers of other notable transcendentalists, Theodore Roosevelt, T.S. Eliot, E.E. Cummings, Henry James, William James, James Joyce, John Updike, Jamaica Kincaid, Gore Vidal, and many others.\n\nHoughton also holds the letters of Colonel Robert Gould Shaw, who commanded the 54th Massachusetts during the Civil War, and was killed during the assault on Fort Wagner.\n\nHoughton has five main curatorial departments:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40363382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40363382", "title": "Illustrated Europe", "text": "Illustrated Europe\n\nIllustrated Europe was a series of travel guide books to Europe published by Orell Fussli & Co. of Zürich and C. Smith & Son of London. It also appeared in a German-language edition (\"Europäische Wanderbilder\") and a French-language edition (\"L'Europe illustré\"). The guides described localities in Austria, Germany, Hungary, Italy, and Switzerland in the 1880s-1890s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1467607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467607", "title": "Jentil", "text": "Jentil\n\nThe jentil (or Jentilak with the Basque plural), are a race of giants in the Basque mythology. This word meaning \"gentile\", from Latin \"gentilis\", was used to refer to pre-Christian civilizations and in particular to the builders of megalithic monuments, to which the other Basque mythical legend the Mairuak are involved too.\n\nA Jentil stands more than 12 feet tall and weighs about 1600 pounds.\n\nThe \"jentil\" were believed to have lived alongside the Basque people. They were hairy and so tall that they could walk in the sea and threw rocks from one mountain to another. This stone throwing has led to several tales and explanations for ancient stone buildings and large isolated rocks. Even the Basque ball game, \"pilota\", is ascribed to these stone-throwers. The tradition lives on in the Basque power games of stone lifting and throwing. Some attributed to the \"jentil\" the defeat of Roland in the Battle of Roncevaux, where the Basques defeated the Frankish army by throwing rocks on them. The giants were believed to have created the neolithic monuments, such as dolmens, found around the Basque Country. \n\nThey also were said to have invented metallurgy and the saw and first grew wheat, teaching humans to farm. However, they were unwilling to move to the valleys from the mountains, with a certain unwillingness to progress. They disappeared into the earth under a dolmen in the Arratzaren valley in Navarra when a portentous luminous cloud – perhaps a star – appeared, said to have heralded the birth of Christ (\"Kixmi\") and the end of the jentil age. Other stories say \"jentil\" threw themselves from a mountain. Only Olentzero remained, a giant who appears at Christmas and is reproduced as straw dolls.\n\nThere are many structures and places around the Basque Country with \"jentil\" in their name, generally referring to pagan or ancient places, supposedly built by the jentil. Dolmens are \"jentilarri\" or \"jentiletxe\", harrespil are \"jentilbaratz\", caves can be \"jentilzulo\" or \"jentilkoba\".\n\n"}
{"id": "54189538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54189538", "title": "Kakaku.com", "text": "Kakaku.com\n\n"}
{"id": "42446144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42446144", "title": "List of Fortune 500 computer software and information companies", "text": "List of Fortune 500 computer software and information companies\n\nThis is a list of computer software and information technologies that are in the Fortune 500 list of the largest U.S. companies by revenue.\n\n"}
{"id": "54209488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54209488", "title": "List of women in Bletchley Park", "text": "List of women in Bletchley Park\n\nWomen made up the majority of the 10,000 people who worked at Bletchley Park. The following is a list of women who worked at Bletchley Park who have Wikipedia articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43631253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43631253", "title": "List of works by John Buchan", "text": "List of works by John Buchan\n\nJohn Buchan, 1st Baron Tweedsmuir (1875 – 1940) was a Scottish novelist, historian, biographer and editor. Outside the field of literature he was, at various times, a barrister, a publisher, a lieutenant colonel in the Intelligence Corps, the Director of Information—reporting directly to prime minister David Lloyd George—during the First World War and a Unionist MP who served as Governor General of Canada, the 15th since Canadian Confederation.\n\nBorn in Perth, Scotland, Buchan was admitted to the University of Glasgow in 1892 to study classics; during his first year at university he edited the works of Francis Bacon, which were published in 1894. The following year he was awarded a scholarship to Brasenose College, Oxford; shortly after his arrival he also published his first novel, \"Sir Quixote of the Moors\", which he dedicated to Gilbert Murray, his university tutor. By the time he left the university he had published five books, including \"Scholar-Gipsies\", the first work of non-fiction he wrote.\n\nMuch of Buchan's non-fiction mirrored his circumstances: his time in South Africa resulted in \"The African Colony\", the First World War led to a series of books about the war in general, and the Scottish and South African forces in particular. He interspersed his non-fiction with further novels, and also wrote ten biographies and four volumes of poetry, as well as numerous articles and stories for magazines and journals. During the war he wrote \"The Thirty-Nine Steps\", the novel which has been adapted for film and television more than any of his other work, (film versions in 1935; 1959; and 1978, as well as a 2008 version for British television).\n\nBuchan was the general editor of the \"Teaching of History\" series, published by T. Nelson Publishers between 1928 and 1930. In 1900 he was also a member of the editorial board of \"The Spectator\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35810448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35810448", "title": "Mafesa v Parity Versekeringsmaatskappy", "text": "Mafesa v Parity Versekeringsmaatskappy\n\nMafesa v Parity Versekeringsmaatskappy Bpk (In Likwidasie) is an important case in South African law. It was heard in the Orange Free State Provincial Division on 15 and 16 February 1968, with judgment handed down on 29 February. The presiding officer was Smit RP.\n\nThe case is especially important in the law of delict, as an illustration of the concept of the \"nova causa interveniens\". The plaintiff's leg had been broken in a collision, and he was discharged from hospital after the bone had clinically sufficiently knitted. Shortly thereafter, however, his crutches slipped on a smooth floor and the bone broke again. The court found that the fall had been caused by the plaintiff' own carelessness, and that the defendant was not liable for the prolongation of the recovery. The court also disallowed costs for the doctor's qualifying expenses.\n\nIn an action for damages for personal injuries which he sustained in a collision, it appeared that the plaintiff, a black man named Mafesa, had suffered a fracture of the right femur and tibia. After the leg had clinically set sufficiently, he was discharged from hospital. He had been given crutches to walk with, as his leg was still in splints. He was told not to place any weight on the leg, as it could break again.\n\nThe next month he slipped and fell and again broke the thighbone. He had been walking on his crutches on a smooth floor when the crutches had slipped away from under him. He had known that the floor was smooth and also that the crutches were liable to slip, because at that time they had not had rubber tips. Mafesa had to undergo a second operation, and his recovery was prolonged for six months.\n\nThe court held that the defendant was responsible for the damage sustained as a result of the collision, but that the fall had been caused by the plaintiff's own carelessness. The defendant was not liable for the damage caused thereby: The fall was an intervening cause which broke the causal effect of the original negligence. As no evidence had been adduced to show that the plaintiff's doctor had incurred special expenses in qualifying, the court held that plaintiff's request for his qualifying expenses should not be allowed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45409276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45409276", "title": "Manouchehr Khan Gorji", "text": "Manouchehr Khan Gorji\n\nManuchehr Khan Gorji Mo'tamad al-Dawle (died 1847) was a government official in Qajar Iran. He was of Georgian origin; hence, \"Gorji\" (i.e., \"Georgian\") in his surname. He was known as a sympathizer of Báb, the founder of Bábism religious movement.\n\nManuchehr was Christian by birth and from Tbilisi. His original Georgian name was Chongur Enakolopashvili (). During his early life, he participated in the campaign of General Pavel Tsitsianov during the Russo-Persian War of 1804-1813, but was captured by the Iranian troops near the Yerevan Fortress in the summer of 1804, converted to Islam, and castrated. Given an employment in the shah's harem, he rose to higher court and government positions by virtue of his military and administrative skills. Manuchehr Khan was heavy-handed in dealing with tribal and urban revolts and used his good contacts with the court to further his influence. \n\nInside the court, he formed an alliance with Khosrow Khan Gorji. In 1837, the governor of Kermanshah, Bahram Mirza, who was also the brother of then incumbent king Mohammad Shah Qajar (r. 1834–1848), was recalled to the Iranian capital of Tehran after complaints by the people of his governorate. Manuchehr subsequently succeeded him as its governor. \n\nIn 1838, he was given the governorship of the royal city of Isfahan, an office he would keep until his death. In 1839, the entire Isfahan Province was added to the domain of Manuchehr Khan Gorji, which already included Kermanshah, Khuzestan, and Lorestan. As a result of said promotions, \"he became in effect the viceroy of much central and southwestern Iran and delegated authority in Kermanshah to a series of subordinate governors\". Around the same time, still in the 1830s, Manuchehr Khan was responsible for the establishment of a central court of justice in Isfahan, which had both secular and religious judges, and in its implementation was roughly resembling the historical \"maẓālem\" court. \n\nThe court however, was disbanded due to the presented opposition of those who found it to be working against their personal interests. When Báb arrived in Isfahan in 1846, Manuchehr gave him protection and, allegedly, offered military services to conquer Iran and spread his teachings into the country and even beyond it. Báb reportedly declined the offer, but accepted the governor's protection. Manuchehr Khan died shortly thereafter and Báb, left without an influential patron, fell in disfavor with the shah. Manuchehr Khan was buried at the Fatima Masumeh Shrine in Qom. He was succeeded as governor of Isfahan by Ḡolām-Ḥosayn Khan Sepahdār.\n\n"}
{"id": "39975156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39975156", "title": "Meagre Company", "text": "Meagre Company\n\nThe Meagre Company, or The company of Captain Reinier Reael and Lieutenant Cornelis Michielsz Blaeuw, refers to the only militia group portrait, or \"schutterstuk\", painted by Frans Hals outside of Haarlem, and today is in the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum, where it is considered one of its main attractions of the \"Honor Gallery\". Hals was unhappy about commuting to Amsterdam to work on the painting and, unlike his previous group portraits, was unable to deliver it on time. The sitters contracted Pieter Codde to finish the work.\n\nHals was originally contracted in 1633, after the favorable reception of his previous militia group portrait, \"The Officers of the St Adrian Militia Company in 1633\", in which all ensigns are holding flags and all officers are holding their weapons. The sergeants were shown, holding halberds to differentiate them from officers with spontoons. Hals seems to have initially intended an Amsterdam version of the same painting, beginning on the left with a smiling flag bearer wearing a flamboyant cut-sleeve jacket with lace and holding a flag in the color of his sash. Though it is impossible to tell on which side of the canvas Hals began painting, the light falls onto the figures from the left in the \"standard\" Hals tradition and this is also where the most important figures are situated within the painting. Since each sitter paid for his own portrait, it is presumed that Hals began with the most important sitters in order to \"sell\" canvas room to other paying officers. Whether or not Hals did in fact start on the left or drew a sketch of the entire group at once, the flag bearer on the left in this painting has been painted in a remarkably flamboyant way from the tip of his hat to the toe of his boots. This was possibly to prove to the decision makers in Amsterdam that Hals was capable of painting a schutterstuk in the \"Amsterdam style\", which included the entire figure. In Haarlem, the civic guards were traditionally portrayed in the \"kniestuk\" style of being \"cut off at the knee\" in three-quarter length portraits.\n\nThe flag bearer is Nicolaes van Bambeeck. Seated next to him are Captain Reael, with hat and commander's staff, and Lieutenant Cornelis Michielsz Blaeuw, balding and holding a spontoon. The further to the right, however, the less the two paintings resemble each other. In 1636 Hals was called to Amsterdam to finish the painting, but he refused, offering to receive the sitters in his Haarlem studio with assurances that they would not need to sit very long. His offer was refused and Codde was hired to finish the piece. Because the men are thinner than the men portrayed in other, later, Amsterdam schutterstukken hanging near this painting, the piece was later nicknamed the \"meagre company\". Besides the ensign and the seated men, the names of the other officers are unknown today.\n\nThe impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh was inspired by the painting, which he saw when he paid a visit to the Night Watch in the newly opened Rijksmuseum in 1885. He sent an enthusiastic letter about it to his brother Theo:\n\nI don’t know whether you remember that to the left of the Night watch, in other words as a pendant to the Syndics, there’s a painting — it was unknown to me until now — by Frans Hals and P. Codde, 20 or so officers full length. Have you noticed it??? In itself, that painting alone makes the trip to Amsterdam well worth while, especially for a colourist. There’s a figure in it, the figure of the standard-bearer in the extreme left corner, right up against the frame. That figure is in grey from top to toe, let’s call it pearl grey, — of a singular neutral tone — probably obtained with orange and blue mixed so that they neutralize each other — by varying this basic colour in itself — by making it a little lighter here, a little darker there, the whole figure is as it were painted with one and the same grey. But the leather shoes are a different material from the leggings, which are different from the folds of the breeches, which are different from the doublet — expressing different materials, very different in colour one from another, still all one family of grey — but wait!\nInto that grey he now introduces blue and orange — and some white.\nThe doublet has satin ribbons of a divine soft blue. Sash and flag orange — a white collar.\n\nOrange, white, blue, as the national colours were then. Orange and blue next to each other, that most glorious spectrum — on a ground of grey judiciously mixed, precisely by uniting just those two, let me call them poles of electricity (in terms of colour, though) so that they obliterate each other, a white against that grey. Further carried through in that painting — other orange spectrums against a different blue, further the most glorious blacks against the most glorious whites — the heads — some twenty — sparkling with spirit and life, and how they’re done! and what colour! the superb appearance of all those fellows, full length. But that orange, white, blue chap in the left corner — — …… I’ve seldom seen a more divinely beautiful figure — — it’s something marvellous.\n\nDelacroix would have adored it — just adored it to the utmost.\n\nThe painting previously hung with others in the old Archer's meeting hall called the \"Voetboogdoelen\", located on the Singel. It was located there until the building was deconstructed to build the library of the University of Amsterdam. The group paintings that formerly hung in this hall have been since transferred to the Amsterdam Museum, except for this one and a later one by Bartholomeus van der Helst, which are on permanent loan to the Rijksmuseum.\nThe 'Meagre Company' currently hangs across from its successor, the next militia group portrait to be painted in Amsterdam, Van der Helst's \"\", completed in 1639. These paintings are both hung near Rembrandt's \"The Night Watch\", which was completed well over a decade after Hals' commission, in 1642. Casual observers over the centuries have noticed how much fatter the officers became in that time, which is how the \"Meagre Company\" got its nickname. The nickname \"Meagre company\" appears to have been first used by the 18th-century art historian Jan van Dijk in his \"Kunst en Historie Kundige beschrijving en opmerkingen over alle de schilderijen op het stadhuis\", p. 30, No. 20.\n\nVan der Helst was himself the son of an innkeeper in Haarlem, and, like Hals, had taken advantage of the new trekschuit commuting service between Haarlem and Amsterdam in 1632 along the Haarlemmertrekvaart. Whereas Hals gave up his Amsterdam commission to concentrate on his next Haarlem group portrait, \"The Officers of the St George Militia Company in 1639\", Van der Helst seems to have embraced Amsterdam and at the young age of 23, even married there in 1636, the year that Hals was replaced by Codde. Van der Helst was probably a pupil of either Codde or Hals, as very little is documented about his training. In his 1639 group, he was clearly influenced by Hals, since he added design ideas from the \"Meagre Company\" as well as from Hals' later 1639 Haarlem group.\n\nIf there was a competition in Amsterdam to win militia group portrait commissions, then Van der Helst was clearly favored above Codde. Codde was never given another militia group portrait commission, although he went on to become a successful painter who could afford a house on the Keizersgracht. Van der Helst, on the other hand, went on to paint several more militia group portrait commissions as well as group portraits for other Amsterdam municipal organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "18541342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18541342", "title": "Multicore Association", "text": "Multicore Association\n\nThe Multicore Association was founded in 2005. Multicore Association is a member-funded, non-profit, industry consortium focused on the creation of open standard APIs, specifications, and guidelines that allow system developers and programmers to more readily adopt multicore technology into their applications.\n\nThe consortium provides a neutral forum for vendors and developers who are interested in, working with, and/or proliferating multicore-related products, including processors, infrastructure, devices, software, and applications. Its members represent vendors of processors, operating systems, compilers, development tools, debuggers, ESL/EDA tools, and simulators; and application and system developers.\n\nThe consortium’s president is Markus Levy, who is also president of EEMBC, the Embedded Microprocessor Benchmark Consortium. Sven Brehmer is the CTO, as well as president of PolyCore Softwarewww.polycoresoftware.com.\n\nIn 2008, the Multicore Communications API working group released the consortium's first specification, referred to as MCAPI. MCAPI™ is a message-passing API that captures the basic elements of communication and synchronization that are required for closely distributed (multiple cores on a chip and/or chips on a circuit board) embedded systems. The target systems for MCAPI™ span multiple dimensions of heterogeneity (e.g., core heterogeneity, interconnect fabric heterogeneity, memory heterogeneity, operating system heterogeneity, software toolchain heterogeneity, and programming language heterogeneity).\n\nIn 2011, the MCAPI working group released MCAPI 2.0. The enhanced version adds new features, such as domains for routing purposes. MCAPI Version 2.0 adds a level of hierarchy into that network of nodes through the introduction of “domains.” Domains can be used in a variety of implementation-specific ways, such as for representing all the cores on a given chip or for dividing a topology into public and secure areas. MCAPI 2.0 also adds three new types of initialization parameters (node attributes, implementation-specific configurations, implementation information such as the initial network topology or the MCAPI version being executed). The MCAPI WG is chaired by Sven Brehmer.\n\nIn 2011, the Multicore Resource Management API working group released its first specification, referred to as MRAPI. MRAPI is an industry-standard API that specifies essential application-level resource management capabilities. Multicore applications require this API to allow coordinated concurrent access to system resources in situations where: (1) there are not enough resources to dedicate to individual tasks or processors, and/or (2) the Run time (program lifecycle phase) system does not provide a uniformly accessible mechanism for coordinating resource sharing. This API is applicable to both SMP and AMP embedded multicore implementations (whereby AMP refers to heterogeneous both in terms of software and hardware). MRAPI (in conjunction with other Multicore Association APIs) can serve as a valuable tool for implementing applications, as well as for implementing such full-featured resource managers and other types of layered services. The MRAPI WG was chaired by Jim Holt.\n\nIn 2013, the Multicore Task Management API (MTAPI) working group released its first specification. MTAPI is a standard specification for an application program interface (API) that supports the coordination of tasks on embedded parallel systems with homogeneous and heterogeneous cores. Core features of MTAPI are runtime scheduling and mapping of tasks to processor cores. Due to its dynamic behavior, MTAPI is intended for optimizing throughput on multicore-systems, allowing the software developer to improve the task scheduling strategy for latency and fairness. This working group was chaired by Urs Gleim of Siemens.\n\nIn 2013, the Multicore Programming Practices (MPP) working group delivered a multicore software programming guide for the industry that aids in improving consistency and understanding of multicore programming issues. The MPP guide provides best practices leveraging the C/C++ language to generate a guide of genuine value to engineers who are approaching multicore programming. This working group was chaired by Rob Oshana of NXP Semiconductors and David Stewart of CriticalBlue.\n\nin 2015, the Software/Hardware Interface for Multicore/Manycore (SHIM) working group delivered a specification to define an architecture description standard useful for software design. Some architectural features that SHIM describes are the hardware topology including processor cores, accelerators, caches, and inter-core communication channels, with selected details of each element, and instruction, memory, and communication performance information. This working group was chaired by Masaki Gondo of eSOL.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5849742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5849742", "title": "Māori mythology", "text": "Māori mythology\n\nMāori mythology and Māori traditions are the two major categories into which the legends of the Māori of New Zealand may usefully be divided. The rituals, beliefs, and the world view of Māori society were ultimately based on an elaborate mythology that had been inherited from a Polynesian homeland and adapted and developed in the new setting (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nFew records survive of the extensive body of Māori mythology and tradition from the early years of European contact. The missionaries had the best opportunity to get the information, but failed to do so at first, in part because their knowledge of the language was imperfect. Most of the missionaries who did master the language were unsympathetic to Māori beliefs, regarding them as 'puerile beliefs', or even 'works of the devil'. Exceptions to this general rule were J. F. Wohlers of the South Island, Richard Taylor, who worked in the Taranaki and Wanganui River areas, and William Colenso who lived at the Bay of Islands and also in Hawke's Bay. \"The writings of these men are among our best sources for the legends of the areas in which they worked\" (Biggs 1966:447).\n\nIn the 1840s Edward Shortland, Sir George Grey, and other non-missionaries began to collect the myths and traditions. At that time many Māori were literate in their own language and the material collected was, in general, written by Māori themselves in the same style as they spoke. The new medium seems to have had minimal effect on the style and content of the stories. Genealogies, songs, and narratives were written out in full, just as if they were being recited or sung. Many of these early manuscripts have been published, and scholars have access to a great body of material (more than for any other area of the Pacific) containing multiple versions of the great myth cycles known in the rest of Polynesia, as well as of the local traditions pertaining only to New Zealand. A great deal of the best material is found in two books, \"Nga Mahi a nga Tupuna\" (The Deeds of the Ancestors), collected by Sir George Grey and translated as \"Polynesian Mythology\"; and \"Ancient History of the Māori\" (six volumes), edited by John White (Biggs 1966:447).\n\nThe three forms of expression prominent in Māori and Polynesian oral literature are genealogical recital, poetry, and narrative prose.\n\nThe reciting of genealogies (whakapapa) was particularly well developed in Māori oral literature, where it served several functions in the recounting of tradition. Firstly it served to provide a kind of time scale which unified all Māori myth, tradition, and history, from the distant past to the present. It linked living people to the gods and the legendary heroes. By quoting appropriate genealogical lines, a narrator emphasised his or her connection with the characters whose deeds were being described, and that connection also proved that the narrator had the right to speak of them. \"In the cosmogonic genealogies, to be described later, genealogical recital is revealed as a true literary form. What appears at first sight to be a mere listing of names is in fact a cryptic account of the evolution of the universe\"' (Biggs 1966:447).\n\nMāori poetry was always sung or chanted; musical rhythms rather than linguistic devices served to distinguish it from prose. Rhyme or assonance were not devices used by the Māori; only when a given text is sung or chanted will the metre become apparent. The lines are indicated by features of the music. The language of poetry tends to differ stylistically from prose. Typical features of poetic diction are the use of synonyms or contrastive opposites, and the repetition of key words. \"Archaic words are common, including many which have lost any specific meaning and acquired a religious mystique. Abbreviated, sometimes cryptic utterances and the use of certain grammatical constructions not found in prose are also common\" (Biggs 1966:447-448).\n\nProse narrative forms the great bulk of Māori legendary material. Some appears to have been sacred or esoteric, but many of the legends were well-known stories told as entertainment in the long nights of winter. \"Nevertheless, they should not be regarded simply as fairy tales to be enjoyed only as stories. The Māui myth, for example, was important not only as entertainment but also because it embodied the beliefs of the people concerning such things as the origin of fire, of death, and of the land in which they lived. The ritual chants concerning firemaking, fishing, death, and so on made reference to Māui and derived their power from such reference\" (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nMyths are set in the remote past and their content often have to do with the supernatural. They present Māori ideas about the creation of the universe and the origins of gods and of people. The mythology accounts for natural phenomena, the weather, the stars and the moon, the fish of the sea, the birds of the forest, and the forests themselves. Much of the culturally institutioned behaviour of the people finds its sanctions in myth. \"Perhaps the most distinctive feature of myth, as distinct from tradition, is its universality. Each of the major myths is known in some version not only throughout New Zealand but also over much of Polynesia as well\" (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nThe Māori understanding of the development of the universe was expressed in genealogical form. These genealogies appear in many versions, in which several symbolic themes constantly recur. \"Evolution may be likened to a series of periods of darkness (pō) or voids (kore), each numbered in sequence or qualified by some descriptive term. In some cases the periods of darkness are succeeded by periods of light (ao). In other versions the evolution of the universe is likened to a tree, with its base, tap roots, branching roots, and root hairs. Another theme likens evolution to the development of a child in the womb, as in the sequence “the seeking, the searching, the conception, the growth, the feeling, the thought, the mind, the desire, the knowledge, the form, the quickening”. Some, or all, of these themes may appear in the same genealogy\" (Biggs 1966:448).\nThe cosmogonic genealogies are usually brought to a close by the two names Rangi and Papa (father sky and mother earth). The marriage of this celestial pair produced the gods and, in due course, all the living things of the earth (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nThe earliest full account of the origins of gods and the first human beings is contained in a manuscript entitled \"Nga Tama a Rangi\" (The Sons of Heaven), written in 1849 by Wī Maihi Te Rangikāheke, of the Ngāti Rangiwewehi tribe of Rotorua. The manuscript \"gives a clear and systematic account of Māori religious beliefs and beliefs about the origin of many natural phenomena, the creation of woman, the origin of death, and the fishing up of lands. No other version of this myth is presented in such a connected and systematic way, but all early accounts, from whatever area or tribe, confirm the general validity of the Rangikāheke version. It begins as follows: 'My friends, listen to me. The Māori people stem from only one source, namely the Great-heaven-which-stands-above, and the Earth-which-lies-below. According to Europeans, God made heaven and earth and all things. According to the Māori, Heaven (Rangi) and Earth (Papa) are themselves the source' \" (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nAccording to Biggs (1966:448), the main corpus of Māori mythology unfolds in three story complexes or cycles, which are:\n\n\n\n\n\"Every Māori social group had its own body of traditional belief which validated its claims to the territory it occupied, gave authority to those of high rank, and justified the group's external relationships with other groups. These purposes were served because the members of the groups concerned believed that the traditions were true records of past events, and they acted accordingly. Alliances between groups were facilitated if it was believed that they shared a common heritage, and the commoner's respect for and fear of his chief were based, in part at least, on his belief in the semi-divine ancestry of those of high rank\" (Biggs 1966:450).\n\n\"Traditions, as opposed to myths, tell of incidents which are for the most part humanly possible. Genealogical links with the present place them within the past millennium. They are geographically located in New Zealand and knowledge of them is confined to this country\" (Biggs 1966:448).\n\nAccording to Biggs (1966:451), tradition may be divided into three types:\n\nThere were two major discovery or origin traditions. One of these traditions names Kupe as the discoverer of New Zealand. The second group of traditions regards Toi as the first important origin ancestor. \"Both traditions were current over wide but apparently complementary areas of the North Island. Attempts to place the two in a single chronological sequence are misguided, since there is no reliable evidence that they ever formed part of the same body of traditional lore\" (Biggs 1966:451).\n\n\n\nEach tribal group, whether tribe or subtribe, maintained its discrete traditional record, which generally concerned \"great battles and great men\"; these stories were linked together by genealogy, which in Māori tradition is an elaborate art. \"In some cases the story is continuous and internally consistent from the migration down to the present. In other cases it is fragmentary and discontinuous earlier than about 1600\" (Biggs 1966:453).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "97287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97287", "title": "Neith", "text": "Neith\n\nNeith ( or , from , a borrowing of the Demotic form , likely originally \"nrt\" \"she is the terrifying one\"; also spelled Nit, Net, or Neit) was an early ancient Egyptian deity who was said to be the first and the prime creator. She was said to be the creator of the universe and all it contains and she governs how it functions.\n\nNeith was the tutelary deity of Sais ( \"Sai\" from Egyptian \"Zau\"), where her cult was centered in the western Nile Delta of Lower Egypt and attested as early as the First Dynasty. Neith was also one of the three tutelary deities of the southern city of Latopolis () or Snē (Sahidic Coptic: from earlier Egyptian: \"t3-snt\", also \"iwnyt\") Latopolis was located on the west bank of the River Nile some south of Luxor.\n\nNeith is a goddess of war and of hunting, and had as her symbol two arrows crossed over a shield. She is a far more complex goddess than is generally known, however, and of whom ancient texts only hint of her true nature. A religious silence was imposed by ancient Egyptians for secrecy, employing euphemisms and allusions and often relying on symbols alone. In her usual representations, she is portrayed as a fierce deity, a woman wearing the Red Crown, occasionally holding or using the bow and arrow, in others a harpoon. In fact, the hieroglyphs of her name usually are followed by a determinative containing the archery elements, with the shield symbol of the name being explained as either double bows (facing one another), intersected by two arrows (usually lashed to the bows), or, by other imagery associated with her worship. Her symbol also identified the city of Sais. This symbol was displayed on top of her head in Egyptian art. In her form as a goddess of war, she was said to make the weapons of warriors and to guard their bodies when they died.\n\nAs a deity, Neith is normally shown carrying the was scepter (symbol of rule and power) and the ankh (symbol of life). She is also called such cosmic epithets as the \"Cow of Heaven\", a sky-goddess similar to Nut, and as the Great Flood, Mehet-Weret (MHt wr.t), as a cow who gives birth to the sun daily. In these forms, she is associated with creation of both the primeval time and daily \"re-creation\". As protectress of the Royal House, she is represented as a uraeus, and functions with the fiery fury of the sun, In time, this led to her being considered as the personification of the primordial waters of creation. She is identified as a great mother goddess in this role as a creator. She is the personification of the primeval waters, able to give birth (create) parthenogenetically (without the opposite gender). Among the pairs of deities usually noted by the later ancient Egyptians, she is paired with Ptah-Nun. In the same manner, her personification as the primeval waters is Mehetweret (MHt wr.t), the Great Flood, conceptualized as streaming water, related to another use of the verb \"sti\", meaning 'to pour'.\n\nNeith is one of the most ancient deities associated with ancient Egyptian culture. Flinders Petrie (\"Diopolis Parva\", 1901) noted the earliest depictions of her standards were known in predynastic periods, as can be seen from a representation of a barque bearing her crossed arrow standards in the Predynastic Period, as displayed in the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford.\n\nHer first anthropomorphic representations occur in the early dynastic period, on a diorite vase of King Ny-Netjer of the Second Dynasty, found in the Step Pyramid of Djoser (Third Dynasty) at Saqqara. That her worship predominated the early dynastic periods is shown by a preponderance of theophoric names (personal names which incorporate the name of a deity) within which Neith appears as an element. Predominance of Neith's name in nearly forty percent of early dynastic names, and particularly in the names of four royal women of the First Dynasty, only emphasizes the importance of this goddess in relation to the early society of Egypt, with special emphasis upon the Royal House.\n\nIn the very early periods of Egyptian history, the main iconographic representations of this goddess appear to have been limited to her hunting and war characteristics, although there is no Egyptian mythological reference to support the concept that this was her primary function as a deity. It has been suggested these hunting and war features of Neith's imagery may indicate her origin from Libya, located west and southwest of Egypt, where she was goddess of the combative peoples there.\n\nIt has been theorized that Neith's primary cult point in the Old Kingdom was established in Saïs (modern Sa el-Hagar) by Hor-Aha of the First Dynasty, in an effort to placate the residents of Lower Egypt by the ruler of the unified country. Textual and iconographic evidence indicates that she was a national goddess for Old Kingdom Egypt, with her own sanctuary in Memphis, indicating the high regard held for her. There, she was known as \"North of her Wall\", as counterpoise to Ptah's \"South of his Wall\" epithet. While Neith is generally regarded as a deity of Lower Egypt, her worship was not consistently located in that delta region. Her cult reached its height in Saïs and apparently in Memphis in the Old Kingdom, and remained important, although to a lesser extent, through the Middle and New Kingdom. The cult regained prominence again during the twenty-sixth dynasties when worship at Saïs flourished again, as well as at Esna in Upper Egypt.\nNeith's symbol and part of her hieroglyph also bore a resemblance to a loom, and so in later syncretisation of Egyptian myths by the Greek ruling class, she also became goddess of weaving. At this time her role as a creator conflated with that of Athena, as a deity who wove all of the world and existence into being on her loom.\n\nSometimes Neith was pictured as a woman nursing a baby crocodile, and she then was addressed with the title, \"Nurse of Crocodiles\", reflecting a southern provincial mythology that she served as either the mother of the crocodile god, Sobek, (or he was her consort). As mother of Ra, in her Mehet-Weret form, she was sometimes described as the \"Great Cow who gave birth to Ra\". As a maternal figure (beyond being the birth-mother of the sun-god Ra) Neith is associated with Sobek as her son (as far back as the Pyramid Texts), but in later religious conventions that paired deities, no male deity is consistently identified with her as a consort and she often is represented without one. Later triad associations made with her have little or no religious or mythological supporting references, appearing to have been made by political or regional associations only.\n\nSome writers assert that since Neith is a creator capable of giving birth without a partner (asexually) and without association of creation with sexual imagery, as seen in the myths of Atum and other creator deities, they may interpret that as her being androgynous. Her name always appears as feminine, however. Erik Hornung interprets that in the Eleventh Hour of the Book of the Amduat, Neith's name appears written with a phallus (\"Das Amduat\", Teil I: \"Text\": 188, No. 800.(Äg. Abh., Band 7, Wiesbaden) 1963). See also Ramadan el-Sayed, \"La Déese Neith de Saïs\", I:16; 58-60, for both hieroglyphic rendering and discussion of an androgynous nature of Neith as creator/creatress deity, and \"Lexikon der Ägyptologie\" (LÄ I) under \"Götter, androgyne\": 634-635 (W. Westendorf, ed., Harassowitz, Wiesbaden, 1977). In reference to Neith's function as creator with both male and female characteristics, Peter Kaplony has said in the Lexikon der Ägyptologie: \"Die Deutung von Neith als \"Njt\" \"Verneinung\" ist sekundär. Neith ist die weibliche Entsprechung zu \"Nw(w\"), dem Gott der Urflut (Nun and Naunet). (Citing Sethe, \"Amun\", § 139)\". \"LÄ\" II: 1118 (Harassowitz, Wiesbaden, 1977). The antiquity of Neith reaches deeply into the prehistoric periods, apparently even the neolithic, however, when female deities as the sole creators were quite common in human cultures, so she should be considered in that role without having to reach for other explanations about her not following later conventions.\n\nNeith was considered to be eldest of the deities. Neith is said to have been \"born the first, in the time when as yet there had been no birth\" (St. Clair, \"Creation Records\": 176). In the Pyramid Texts, Neith is paired with Selket as braces for the sky, which places these two goddesses as the two supports for the heavens (see PT 1040a-d, following J. Gwyn Griffths, \"The Conflict of Horus and Seth\", (London, 1961) p. 1). This ties in with the vignette in the Contendings of Seth and Horus when Neith is asked by the deities, as the most ancient among them, to decide who should rule. She was appealed to as an arbiter in the dispute between Horus and Seth. In her message of reply, Neith selects Horus, and says she will \"cause the sky to crash to the earth\" if he is not selected.\n\nAn analysis of her attributes shows Neith was a goddess with many roles. From predynastic and early dynasty periods, she was referred to as an \"Opener of the Ways\" (\"wp w3.wt\") which may have referred, not only to her leadership in hunting and war, but also as a psychopomp in cosmic and underworld pathways, escorting souls. References to Neith as the \"Opener of Paths\" occurs in Dynasties 4 through 6, and is seen in the titles of women serving as priestesses of the goddess. Such epithets include: \"\"Priestess of Neith who opens all the (path)ways\", \"Priestess of Neith who opens the good pathways\", \"Priestess of Neith who opens the way in all her places\"\". (el-Sayed, I: 67-69). el-Sayed asserts his belief that Neith should be seen as a parallel to Wepwawet, the ancient jackal-god of Upper Egypt, who was associated with both royalty in victory and as a psychopomp for the dead.\n\nThe main imagery of Neith as \"wp w3.wt\" was as the deity of the unseen and limitless sky, as opposed to Nut and Hathor, who respectively represented the manifested night and day skies. Her epithet as the \"Opener of the Sun's paths in all her stations\" refers to how the sun is reborn (due to seasonal changes) at various points in the sky, under her control of all beyond the visible world, of which only a glimpse is revealed prior to dawn and after sunset. It is at these changing points that Neith reigns as a form of sky goddess, where the sun rises and sets daily, or at its 'first appearance' to the sky above and below. It is at these points, beyond the sky that is seen, that her true power as the deity who creates life is manifested. Georges St. Clair (\"Creation Records\", 1898) noted that Neith is represented at times as a cow goddess with a line of stars across her back (as opposed to Nut's representations with stars across the belly) [See el-Sayed, II, Doc. 644], and maintained this indicated the ancient goddess represents the full ecliptic circle around the sky (above and below), and is seen iconographically in texts as both the regular and the inverted determinative for the heavenly vault, indicating the cosmos below the horizon. St. Clair maintained it was this realm Neith personified, for she is the complete sky which surrounds the upper (Nut) and lower (Nunet?) sky, and which exists beyond the horizon, and thereby beyond the skies themselves. Neith, then, is that portion of the cosmos which is not seen, and in which the sun is reborn daily, below the horizon (which may reflect the statement assigned to Neith as \"I come at dawn and at sunset daily\").\n\nSince Neith also was goddess of war, she thus had an additional association with death: in this function, she shot her arrows into the enemies of the dead, and thus she began to be viewed as a protector of the dead, often appearing as a uraeus snake to drive off intruders and those who would harm the deceased (in this form she is represented in the tomb of Tutankhamun). She also is shown as the protectress of one of the Four sons of Horus, specifically, of Duamutef, the deification of the canopic jar storing the stomach, since the abdomen (often mistakenly associated as the stomach) was the most vulnerable portion of the body and a prime target during battle. \n\nIn some creation myths, she was identified as the mother of Ra and Apep. When she was identified as a water goddess, she was also viewed as the mother of Sobek, the crocodile. It was this association with water, i.e. the Nile, that led to her sometimes being considered the wife of Khnum, and associated with the source of the River Nile. She also was associated with the Nile Perch as well as the goddess of the triad in that cult center.\n\nAs the goddess of creation and weaving, she was said to reweave the world on her loom daily. An interior wall of the temple at Esna records an account of creation in which Neith brings forth from the primeval waters of the Nun the first land. All that she conceived in her heart comes into being, including the thirty deities. Having no known husband she has been described as \"Virgin Mother Goddess\":\n\nProclus (412–485 AD) wrote that the adyton of the temple of Neith in Sais (of which nothing now remains) carried the following inscription:\n\nIt was said that Neith interceded in the kingly war between Horus and Set, over the Egyptian throne, recommending that Horus rule.\n\nA great festival, called the \"Feast of Lamps\", was held annually in her honor and, according to Herodotus, her devotees burned a multitude of lights in the open air all night during the celebration.\n\nThe Greek historian Herodotus (c. 484–425 BC) noted that the Egyptian citizens of Sais in Egypt worshipped Neith and that they identified her with Athena. The \"Timaeus\", a dialogue written by Plato, mirrors that identification with Athena, possibly as a result of the identification of both goddesses with war and weaving.\n\nE. A. Wallis Budge speculates that the spread of Christianity in Egypt was influenced by the likeness of attributes between the Mother of Christ and goddesses such as Isis and Neith. He asserts that the writers of the apocryphal gospels, in honoring the blessed Virgin, ascribed to her the peculiar mythologies of these goddesses.\n\nPeople named after Neith:\n\n"}
{"id": "33594059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33594059", "title": "Private museum", "text": "Private museum\n\nA private museum is a collection, usually on a very limited topic and operated by individual enthusiasts, collectors, clubs or companies.\n\nUnlike a public or governmental museum, a scientific monitoring and systematic documentation is not always guaranteed. Therefore, a private museum has relevance for historical research only if it complements the national collections. Under certain circumstances, a private museum also receives funding from the state, so that a comparison with public museums is possible.\n\nMany, especially smaller, private museums do not meet the requirements of the International Council of Museums (ICOM). The main reason is that qualified personnel are not sufficiently available or can hardly be financed and therefore often only very limited opening times may be offered.\n\nOften private museums focus on entertainment and have a tourism focus. Their collections are on display for the public to enjoy. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12631035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12631035", "title": "Roy Heffernan", "text": "Roy Heffernan\n\nLaurence Roy Heffernan (12 July 1925 – 24 September 1992) was an Australian professional wrestler. Roy Heffernan toured all over the world, but is most famous for being one half of the original version of the tag team the Fabulous Kangaroos (with Al Costello). The Kangaroos used an \"Ultra Australian\" gimmick complete with Boomerangs, bush hats and \"Waltzing Matilda\" as their entrance music. The first incarnation of the Kangaroos is the most famous of all the Kangaroo versions and is often credited with popularizing tag team wrestling in the late 1950s and 1960s. Costello and Heffernan are also regarded as one of the top tag teams to ever compete in professional wrestling.\n\nWhen the Kangaroos broke up, Heffernan left America to return to his home of Australia. In Australia, Heffernan was involved with Australia's version of World Championship Wrestling under booker Jim Barnett where he worked as a face (good guy), the polar opposite of his time spent as a Fabulous Kangaroo. Both Heffernan and Costello died before the team was honored by being the first tag team inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame in 2003. The induction of the Fabulous Kangaroos started a tradition of inducting a new team every year.\n\nRoy Heffernan was a native Australian, born in Lithgow NSW, and was an avid weightlifter and bodybuilder in his teens. He was trained by his father, who was also a bodybuilder, and won the Mr. Australia title before making his wrestling debut at the age of twenty. Heffernan did not have an easy time moving up the ranks in Australian pro wrestling, as the belief at the time was that a wrestler really had to go overseas to North America and learn to be a pro before the bookers would even consider moving them up the rankings of the promotion. After working on the lower cards in Australia, Heffernan left his home country in 1953 to come to America in the hopes of attaining more success there.\n\nFor years, Al Costello had been working on an idea for a new tag team and even had an idea of who his partner should be in this new tag team: a wrestler he had worked with some years ago (Heffernan). The problem was that Costello and Heffernan had lost touch over the years, so the idea remained dormant until Costello went on a tour of Hawaii in 1956. Costello mentioned his idea of an \"Ultra Australian\" tag team to fellow wrestler and future promoter, Joe Blanchard. Blanchard was good friends with Heffernan and knew that he was working in Stampede Wrestling at that point in time. Blanchard put the two in touch with each other, and soon after, Costello was off to Calgary, Alberta, Canada to join up with Heffernan. Costello and Heffernan made their debut as the Fabulous Kangaroos on 3 May 1957 for Stu Hart’s Stampede Wrestling promotion in a match against Maurice LaPointe and Tony Baillargeon. Only weeks after making their debut, the Kangaroos were working with the top tag teams of the promotion.\n\nAfter working in Stampede for a while, the Fabulous Kangaroos traveled across the United States, headlining shows wherever they went due to their ability to rile the crowd up with their heel (bad guy) tactics. On one occasion in August 1958 the Kangaroos, or \"Kangaroo Men\" as they were billed, nearly caused a riot in Madison Square Garden during a match against Antonino Rocca and Miguel Pérez. The fans began to throw fruit and stones after the match ended without a decisive winner, and the promoters had to step in, turn up the lights in the arena and play the National Anthem to stop a potential riot from breaking out. Everywhere the team went, they seemed to win championships; be it the Texas version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship in Dory Funk’s NWA Western States promotion, or the forerunner to the WWWF United States Tag Team Championship, the North East version of the NWA United States Tag Team Championship.\n\nDuring their time together from 1957 until 1965, the Kangaroos wrestled in the United States, Canada, Asia and select tours of Australia and New Zealand. They worked for such companies as Capitol Wrestling Corporation (the future World Wrestling Entertainment), Championship Wrestling from Florida, NWA Ohio, the Japan Wrestling Association and the World Wrestling Association in Los Angeles.\n\nThe Kangaroos never forgot the territory that started it all and worked in Canada off and on over the years. The team not only worked for Stampede Wrestling while in Canada, but also worked for NWA All-Star Wrestling based in Vancouver, British Columbia. The Fabulous Kangaroos’ 1965 run in NWA All-Star Wrestling turned out to be the last time the original Kangaroos teamed together. In June 1965, the Kangaroos lost to Don Leo Jonathan and Jim Hardy and then split up. Heffernan left Australia to tour the world in 1953 and wanted to return to his homeland, while Costello was determined to remain in the United States at least for a while longer.\n\nRoy Heffernan returned to his native Australia, and became one of the main wrestlers for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) (the Australian version) under promoter Jim Barnett. Heffernan retained his \"Ultra Australian\" gimmick complete with Bush hat and boomerang, but what had made him a heel (bad guy) in the United States made him a beloved face (good guy) in Australia. Heffernan's Fan Club Yearbook circa 1966 gives the following physical statistics for Roy Heffernan: neck 17.5 inches; chest 48.5 inches; waist 32.5 inches; thigh 27 inches; biceps 17.5 inches; calf 17.5 inches. He was billed in 1967 as weighing 225 lb. Costello was originally supposed to join Heffernan in Australia but it never worked out that way, leaving Costello in the United States while Heffernan wrestled as a singles wrestler. Later in his career, Heffernan became involved in the actual running of WCW before retiring in the 1980s.\n\nRoy Heffernan died on 24 September 1992 in his home in Sydney from a heart attack. In 2003, the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame inducted Roy Heffernan, along with Al Costello, as the first ever tag team to be inducted into the Hall of Fame. From 2003 and forward, the Hall of Fame has honored other tag teams, but the Fabulous Kangaroos were given the honor of being the first team to enter the Hall of Fame; in the tradition of the Kangaroos they were \"billed as champions on arrival\" one last time.\n\n"}
{"id": "29657855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29657855", "title": "Rutherford Aris bibliography", "text": "Rutherford Aris bibliography\n\nThis bibliography of Rutherford Aris contains a comprehensive listing of the scientific publications of Aris, including books, journal articles, and contributions to other published material.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46727099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46727099", "title": "The Greatest of All - Our 50 Top Australians", "text": "The Greatest of All - Our 50 Top Australians\n\nThe Greatest of All - Our 50 Top Australians was a newspaper article published in \"The Australian\" on 27 June 2013, coinciding with that year's Australia Day. Compiled by News Limited journalist Billy Rule, the article listed what he considered were the top 50 individuals (including one horse) who \"have helped define who we are as a people and how Australia is perceived as a country\", including 'trailblazers', those who left a legacy for others to admire or benefit from, and those that engendered \n\nOther countries have produced similar shows; see Greatest Britons spin-offs\n"}
{"id": "34857533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34857533", "title": "VirtualCourthouse.com", "text": "VirtualCourthouse.com\n\nVirtualCourthouse.com is an online dispute resolution service that was founded by Judge Arthur Monty M. Ahalt in 2001 in order to provide a less expensive and faster way to resolve legal disputes. Today, disputing parties can choose from a directory listing over 300 neutrals,\nranging from family mediators to construction arbitrators, and retired judges, who can mediate the dispute or render an arbitral award. VirtualCourthouse.com has settled thousands of cases\nacross the United States.\n\nIn 2009, it received the American Bar Association's Louis M. Brown Award for Legal Access for minimizing \"the need and cost of unnecessary face-to-face meetings, mailing and copying\" during the ADR process.\n\nIn 2012, VirtualCourthouse.com entered into partnerships with the video-conferencing provider IOCOM as well as with Auburn University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1430812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430812", "title": "Yellowikis", "text": "Yellowikis\n\nYellowikis was a MediaWiki website collecting basic information about businesses. This information included basic contact details such as company name, address, websites, and telephone numbers, as well as internal Yellowiki wikilinks to competitors. Yellowikis was launched in January 2005. As of 2018, the Yellowikis main page had been translated into more than 25 different languages.\n\nSome users also entered a number of codes including a two letter country code, as well as an International Standard Industrial Classification, North American Industry Classification or US Standard Industrial Classification. Some users are also adding geocodes and Skype ids.\n\nA commercial business listing company, Yell Limited, requested that the founders of Yellowikis, Paul Youlten and Rosa Blaus, amend their site, claiming that Yellowikis was \"passing itself off\" as being associated with Yell.com and that people would confuse the two organisations. This was in July 2006.\n\nThis might be considered to be anti competitive behaviour/anti competitive in the eyes of certain commentators, however, such claim is unlikely to carry water from a legal perspective. \n\nYell's claim is given considerable weight by the slogan on Yellowiki's front page that they are \"Yellow Pages for the 21st Century\" although in their public protestations, Yellowikis claim that they are not trying to create association between themselves and Yellow Pages. Yellow Pages is a registered trade mark in many countries including the United Kingdom. \n\nIn some territories, however, the mark has lost its distinctiveness as a source of origin of goods and services. From 9 to 14 October 2006, the domain address redirected to the new \"Owikis\" website, which stated \"The trademark dispute between Yell Limited and Paul Youlten concerning the Yellowikis website has been satisfactorily resolved\".\n\nOn 15 October 2006, the Yellowikis website reappeared, with the explanation that United Kingdom users would have to use Owikis, with the word \"Yell\" from the domain name and the color yellow from the logo; international users could continue to use Yellowikis. As of 2018, the Owikis site is not yet available. As of 2018, the Wikia page is dead.\n\n\n"}
