{"id": "53566179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53566179", "title": "Abuchi Obinwa", "text": "Abuchi Obinwa\n\nMaduabuchi \"Abuchi\" Obinwa (born January 15, 1997) is a Nigerian-American professional soccer player who plays as a midfielder.\n\nBorn in Columbus, Ohio, Obinwa spent time in his youth with Chicago Magic PSG, an affiliate of French club Paris Saint-Germain. While with the team, he was named the 2013 U.S. Soccer Development Academy's U15/16 Central Conference Player of the Year. He also played with the PSG academy and spent time with the youth academy of Spanish club Real Madrid.\n\nObinwa signed his first professional contract with German club Hannover 96 on January 29, 2015, six months after he had signed an amateur contract with the club. He never made a professional appearance, only appearing for the U19 side in the Under-19 Bundesliga North/Northeast. Obinwa made six appearances over two seasons with the U19s. He also appeared once on the bench for Hannover 96 II in the Regionalliga Nord. Obinwa was an unused substitute against VfR Neumünster on March 29, 2015.\n\nOn January 25, 2017 Obinwa signed with his hometown club Columbus Crew SC of Major League Soccer. He made his first appearance for Columbus on July 17 in a friendly against German club Eintracht Frankfurt, replacing Mohammed Abu in the 67th minute of a 1–0 victory for Crew SC. Obinwa spent the rest of the season on loan to Pittsburgh, and finished the year without appearing again for Crew SC.\n\nOn December 1, 2017, Crew SC declined Obinwa's contract option. He left the club after just one season, and did not make an official appearance while in Columbus.\n\nOn March 25, 2017 Columbus sent Obinwa on loan to their affiliate Pittsburgh Riverhounds in the USL. Obinwa made his professional debut on April 8, 2017 against Charleston Battery, entering in the 13th minute to replace fellow Crew SC loanee Ben Swanson as the Riverhounds picked up a 2–1 victory. Four days later, April 12, he started for the first time in his professional career, against Saint Louis FC. Obinwa played 67 minutes before being replaced by Michael Green as the Riverhounds were defeated 2–1. Obinwa played sparingly for the remainder of the season, finishing the year with just seven appearances for Pittsburgh.\n\nObinwa has represented the United States at U15, U16, U17, U18, and U20 level. Obinwa made three appearances for the U18s at the 2014 U18 International Tournament in Lisbon, Portugal, where he played alongside future club teammate Ben Swanson. He would be called up for the U20 team for the 2015 Stevan Vilotic-Cele Tournament in Serbia, again playing alongside Swanson and making two appearances.\n\nAs a dual-citizen, Obinwa is eligible to represent the United States or Nigeria. He also qualifies for the Super Eagles through his parents, who are both Nigerian.\n\nIn July 2013, sixteen-year-old Obinwa controversially failed an MRI test when undergoing assessment to represent the Nigeria U17 team at the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup despite having the necessary paperwork from his country of birth, the United States. Nigeria went on to win the tournament and claim their fourth U-17 World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "8624793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8624793", "title": "Ajam of Bahrain", "text": "Ajam of Bahrain\n\nThe Ajam of Bahrain or or Persian Bahrainis or Iranian Bahrainis (, ) are an ethnic group in Bahrain composed of Shia Bahraini citizens of non-Arab Iranian national background.\n\nThe Ajam are mostly bilingual in Persian and Arabic.\n\nPersian migration into Bahrain goes back to the days of the Sassanid and Achaemenid Persian empire, though in modern times it has been constant for hundreds of years. There has always been a flow of Persian-speaking Shi'a into Bahrain.\nIn 1910, the Persian community funded and opened a private school, Al-Ittihad school, that taught Persian amongst other subjects. In the Manama Souq, many Persians were clustered in the neighborhood of Mushbir. However they resettled in other areas with the development of new towns and expansion of villages during the era of late Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa. Today, a significant amount of them are based in Muharraq's Shia enclaves and Bahrain Island's modernized Shia towns.\n\nMatam Al-Ajam Al-Kabeer (Arabic:مأتم العجم الكبير) is the first Persian Matam and the largest such matam in Bahrain. The matam was founded in Fareej el-Makharqa by Abdul-Nabi Al-Kazerooni, a rich Persian merchant who was representative of the Persian community in the council of the hakim Isa ibn Ali Al Khalifa. Himself an immigrant from the Dashti region of Iran, he single-handedly organised processions, collected donations and hired orators () to speak at the matam. Construction started in 1882 as a specialized building where Ashura, a holy day in Shia Islam, would be marked with processions, ceremonial flagellation and passion plays commemorating the death of Imam Hussain. The matam is still used for this purpose.\n\nIt was originally built with simple construction material such as palm tree trunks and leaf stalks. The matam was formally established in 1904 where it was decided that the matam would be renovated with rocks, clay and cement. Initially in the 1890s, the matam was primarily supported by Persian merchants, with two-thirds of the donation coming from the Bushehri and Safar family, respectively. For much of the 20th century, the matam had relied on yearly donations of money and land from rich and poor members of the Persian community and from waqf revenue. The matam also had an emergency relief fund that was to be distributed to the poor and to needy individuals; the matam provided financial aid and shelter to people following the collapse of the pearling market in the 1930s.\n\nUpon the death of Abdul-Nabi Al-Kazerooni in 1927, Abdul Nabi Bushehri, himself a Persian immigrant from Bushehr and a well-respected figure in the Persian community, took control of the matam. Unlike his close friend, Bushehri ran the matam with other notables of the Persian community, forming a de facto board. Upon Bushehri's death in 1945, the board took over. In order to prevent confusion, the board appointed a specific member, Hasan Baljik, to act as key carrier to the matam & responsible for programs and budgetary issues. In 1971, an administrative board consisting of a president, vice president, secretary, treasurer and others was set up, all of whom were rich merchants.\n\nThey speak southern Persian dialects distinctive to the cities they have originated from, e.g.\n\nIn addition to this, many names of villages in Bahrain are derived from Persian. These names were thought to have been as a result influences during the Safavid rule of Bahrain (1501–1722) and previous Persian rule. City and Village names such as Manama, Karbabad, Salmabad, Karzakan, Samaheej, Tashan, Duraz, Barbar, Demistan, Karrana, Shakhura, Shahrekan, and Jurdab were originally derived from the Persian language, suggesting that Persians had a substantial effect on the island's history.\nThe Persian language has had the biggest foreign linguistic influence on Bahrani Arabic. The indigenous Bahrani dialect of Bahrain has also borrowed many words from the Persian language. Some examples are:\n\nOne of the notable local delicacies of the Persians in Bahrain is mahyawa, consumed in Southern Iran as well, is a watery earth brick coloured sauce made from sardines and consumed with bread or other food. Persians are known and are famous in Bahrain for bread-making. Another local delicacy is \"pishoo\" made from rose water (golab) and agar agar. Cham-Chamoo is a sweet naan that is made similar to Qeshm Island version. Other food items consumed are similar to Persian cuisine.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4420024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4420024", "title": "Alpine Club of Canada", "text": "Alpine Club of Canada\n\nThe Alpine Club of Canada (ACC) is an amateur athletic association with its national office in Canmore, Alberta that has been a focal point for Canadian mountaineering since its founding in 1906. The club was co-founded by Arthur Oliver Wheeler, who served as its first president, and Elizabeth Parker, a journalist for the \"Manitoba Free Press\". Byron Harmon, whose 6500+ photographs of the Canadian Rockies in the early 20th century provide the best glimpse of the area at that time, was official photographer to the club at its founding. The club is the leading organization in Canada devoted to climbing, mountain culture, and issues related to alpine pursuits and ecology. It is also the Canadian regulatory organization for climbing competition, sanctioning local, regional and national events, and assembling, coaching and supporting the national team.\n\nThe ACC is divided into 22 regional sections across Canada that serve local members and focus on local issues and access, linking mountain enthusiasts to the national community. The club also maintains membership in international organizations including the International Federation of Sport Climbing and the Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (U.I.A.A.), provides year-round mountain adventures and an extensive system of throughout the Canadian Rockies, the ACC has grown from its early inception into a full-fledged mountain organization with a strong foundation of volunteer, professional and corporate support. The club's goals remain the promotion of the sport of competitive climbing, mountain culture adventure, access, and environmental responsibility. The ACC publishes the annual \"Canadian Alpine Journal\", which serves as the journal of record for Canadian achievements in climbing, mountaineering, ski mountaineering, and exploration of mountains.\n\nWhile the ACC's national office is in Canmore, Alberta, the core of the Club's activities are the volunteer-led outdoor recreation opportunities offered to its approximately 10,000 members through the 22 regional sections across the country.\n\nIn 2006, Canada Post issued a stamp to celebrate the club's centenary.\n\nIn the spirit of the Alpine Club created in England in 1857, and the American Alpine Club (founded 1902), the ACC was established in Winnipeg in 1906 by A.O. Wheeler and Elizabeth Parker, with the support of the Canadian Pacific Railway. Arthur O. Wheeler, who was born in 1860 in Kilkenny County, Ireland, immigrated to Canada in 1876 at the age of 16 with his family. Beginning in 1883, he worked for the Dominion Government and Canadian Pacific Railway as a land surveyor in the Canadian Rockies. His employment allowed him to experience mountaineering while exposing him to environmental concerns about the future of Canadian wilderness. He was described by climbing enthusiast Andrew J. Kauffman as having \"Irish emotions, Irish sensitivity, Irish grace and, more frequently than some would like, an Irish temper\". He was eager to create a Canadian climbing institution that focused on mutual appreciation of mountaineering and the environment rather than furthering social status, as it was in Britain's Alpine Club.\n\nWheeler's wrote many letters seeking support for the creation of a Canadian Alpine Club, which eventually ended up in the hands of columnist Elizabeth Parker. A native of Winnipeg, Parker was an avid nationalist and an environmental enthusiast. Conscious of the benefit of mountains, she took her children to Banff in the summer of 1904. She spent 18 months there and began writing newspaper and magazine articles about the mountains. Even if her health did not allow her to be a climber she thought that mountaineering could help women become stronger and more confident. After reading her articles, an editor of the \"Manitoba Free Press\" referenced her to Wheeler's letters. Writing an article in response to his letter, Parker advocated the establishment of an Alpine Club. However, she believed that it should be solely Canadian to encourage the development of national identity and reaffirm Canadian independence. Together they combined their efforts to create the Alpine Club of Canada.\n\nThe inaugural meeting took place on March 27 and 28 1906. A.O. Wheeler became President and Elizabeth Parker was named First Secretary. Several categories of members were created with different levels of involvement: Honorary Members (who had already distinguished themselves in the field of mountaineering), Active Members (who have made an assent of a peak of at least 10,000 feet). The first official camp of the ACC took place in July 1906. Thanks to the Canadian Pacific Railway, campers arrived at Field, B.C in Yoho National Park on July 8. The camp's chief mountaineer was Morrison Bridgland. The ACC received helped from professional mountain guides Edouard and Gottfried Feuz, from Switzerland. The Dominion Government, as recognition of its \"spirit of patriotism\", sponsored the camp, as well as the government of Alberta, the Canadian Pacific Railway and the North-West Mounted Police. Every member paid a dollar a day: with its 100 participants, the camp was considered a success. Morrison Bridgland chose the official climb, the 3066 meter-high Vice President: 44 members graduated and became Active Member of the Alpine Club of Canada.\n\nMolded after the Alpine Club in Great Britain, the Alpine Club of Canada was created to give environmental enthusiasts an opportunity to explore and experience the Canadian wilderness. Unlike the Alpine Club of Great Britain, the Alpine Club of Canada was created to promote equality between men and women within mountaineering and climbing, and to promote the conservation and preservation of Canadian wilderness. At the turn of the 20th century development in Canada expanded into mountain ecosystems, so founders Elizabeth Parker and A.O. Wheeler created the ACC to advocate the prevention of human infiltrations such as electricity and housing in the Canadian wilderness. The ACC helped progress societies mindset towards nature, mountaineering and the environment. Established in the first club meeting in 1906, the committee created a charter with key points that would help progress the club and their vision.\n\nThis charter included:\n\nThese principles reflected the member's goal to create a club that promoted the natural heritage of Canada while encouraging the urban classes of society to exercise in the outdoors. In 1923, the club was involved in activism concerning the construction of hydroelectric dams in places such as Waterton Lake, the Spray Lakes, and Lake Minnewanka. This put the ACC at the forefront of conservation groups, which helped it to create the National Parks of Canada in 1923. Beginning in 1906 and continuing until 1950, the Alpine Club of Canada progressed their relationship with the National Parks of Canada to promote outdoor activities, mountaineering and conservation. After the two World Wars, the ACC's philosophy progressed from being centered around strict conservation of the environment to encouraging outdoor recreation while maintaining a respectful appreciation of Canada's wilderness. The ACC and the NPC worked together to expand the parks system for easier access to the public. During these formative years, the ACC surveyed much for the Canadian Rockies which had been previously unmapped. The club also acted as management for the new National Parks board and aided with administration. The ACC aided in restoration of natural areas that were to be integrated into the parks while establishing the Park's conservation policies. As the National Parks in both the United States and Canada gained popularity, outdoor recreation became a prominent activity for many Canadians, which helped shape the ACC's goal and mission.\n\nThe mission of the ACC has evolved since 1906, but since the creation of the original charters, the club has promoted the sport of climbing and the recreational use and protection of mountain wilderness. The ACC viewed the National parks of Canada as assets that should be used by the public for recreation, but also held in trust to be preserved for future generations.\n\nAlpine Club Of Canada (106704182rr0001) was registered with Canadian Revenue Agency as a Canadian amateur athletic association (RCAAA); therefore, they can issue official donation receipts and are eligible to receive gifts from registered charities since 1972-05-29.\n\nSince the advent of sport climbing competitions on artificial surfaces in the mid-1980s, the Alpine Club of Canada has sanctioned (first through the UIAA, and since 2007 through the IFSC) national competitions and an international team. The first Canadian national championships were held in 1988 onstage in a theatre at the Banff Centre. Wholly as a part of the ACC, Climbing Escalade Canada (CEC) is a committee responsible for the regulation and development of the sport in Canada and by Canadians abroad. The CEC is working toward recognition by Sport Canada as the national sports organization for competitive climbing, by bringing together provincial sports organizations [currently established in the provinces of Nova Scotia, Quebec, Ontario, Alberta and British Columbia. Canadians have been relatively successful internationally in the disciplines of Lead and Bouldering, with a legacy of athletes including the Weldon sisters and most recently Sean McColl.\n\nThe Alpine Club of Canada also regulates the competitive sports of ice-climbing (through the UIAA) and ski-mountaineering (through the International Ski Mountaineering Federation).\n\nThe main activities offered by the Club are its camps and its system of Mountain huts. The Club uses its 20 regional club sections to currently operate 28 huts representing the most extensive system of backcountry accommodation on the continent. The Club's first annual General Mountaineering Camp was held in July 1906 in Yoho National Park, with the idea of educating Canadians about mountain travel and instilling a sense of national pride in their mountain heritage.\nThe camps began as a very modest way to introduce middle-class Canadians to the life of mountaineering. With donations from both the Federal and the Alberta Provincial government, over a 100 members marched their way to the Yoho Pass where a temporary Tent village had been erected with the help of the CPR and volunteers. With the expedition a resounding success, the Club has made summer camps for members an annual feature. The summer camps have grown incredibly popular over the years. Acknowledged as an annual celebration by many, some camps have special historical significance such as the 1920 camp which was considered a coming home camp for members returning from World War I. Although the camps originated with only a few tents and cooking utensils, the camps now sometimes boast transport helicopters, propane cooking and hot showers as some of the amenities available to the hundreds of members who make the camps a memorable part of their membership. The style of the camps may have changed over the years; however, the goal remains the same: to improve mountaineering skills and push the limits of the members through tougher and tougher climbs.\n\nWhile the ACC's national office is in Canmore, Alberta, the core of the Club's activities are the volunteer-led climbing opportunities offered to its membership through 20 regional sections across the country. The ACC has a calendar of winter and summer programs including leadership training, technical climbing instruction and international expeditions (for example, in 1997 the Saskatchewan section of the Club held a successful trip to Cho Oyu, an 8,201m peak in Nepal and more recently the Club offered a trip to the snowy peaks of Chile in January 2012). The different activities offered through the club are as diverse as mountaineering itself; one can learn to do Winter or Summer climbs, improve their backcountry skiing skills or refresh their ice climbing technique. Also accreditation for various certificates is available through the Club. The programmed adventures are also geared towards all skill levels and for all age groups. The only main criteria for the activities is that membership to the Club is required. The dedicated group of volunteers who organize these excursions are members themselves. Finally, the Club is also the focal point for Canadian mountain culture through its website, publications and programs. For instance, it is a big supporter of the annual Banff Mountain Film & Book Festival.\n\nFrom its origins in Winnipeg more than a century ago to the current, the Alpine Club of Canada has altered slightly. As the Club's founders expected it, the ACC has played a crucial role in shaping both the Canadian territory and the Canadian identity. As A.O.Wheeler wrote it in 1953, \"The Club is a permanency and in its 47 years of existence has done more than any other single institution to open up our mountains and bring revenue to the Parks and to Canada, both as a Club as such and from the explorations of its individual members, Canadian, British and American\". Indeed, the Club played a key role in the progression of the Canadian national park system, especially because of its longevity and its strongly rooted values, which enabled its members to always strike a balance between preservation and use. The author, Pearl Ann Reichwein, highlights the same idea, fifty years later: \"Since creating its charter almost 90 year ago the ACC maintained extraordinary continuity as witnessed by the Canadian Alpine Journal, published annually. Conceived with a wide-ranging agenda beyond the scope of a simple mountaineering club, the ACC has remained an agile and long-lived national organization\".\n\nThe ACC publishes the annual \"Canadian Alpine Journal\", \"the oldest and most respected publication of its kind in the country\". The \"Canadian Alpine Journal\" was established only a year after the ACC had its first general meeting and has been published over 90 times in the last century. According to the ACC website, the journal provides the reader with \"articles and images that reflect the ways that Canadians approach mountain culture, history, sport and science\". The Journal was and still is published every year, collecting route descriptions, records of adventures, mountain photography, geographical and natural science observations, poems, songs, cartoons and obituaries remembering Club members. Whilst the Journal is an annual publication, the Club also publishes The Gazette, a newsletter released three times a year, one for the spring, summer and winter season. The year 2006 saw the publication of the Centennial Gazette, a special issue celebrating the one hundredth anniversary of the ACC. In the ceremony's opening speech, Mike Mortimer, the Club president in 2006 declared: \"Clearly the Centennial was an opportunity to look towards the future – we knew where we came from but what about where we are going? Obviously we would not have the hubris to plan the next century, but maybe we would be in a position to examine the guidelines set by our founding members and see if the cornerstones, that had been laid in Winnipeg and which had served us so well in the previous century, could do the same in the next century\". The club has expanded its activities over the last century – it is now responsible for the largest public backcountry hut system in North America and proposes trip opportunities around the world.\n\nThe ACC is known as the world's first national mountaineering club to welcome women. Most Alpine Clubs were fashioned after the Alpine Club in England that did not welcome women and had separate organizations reserved for ladies. Because Elizabeth Parker was one of the two founders of the Alpine Club of Canada, women were never excluded from the ACC. At the end of the first camp in 1906, 15 women (out of 44 members) graduated and became active members of the ACC. Women's participation alongside men became evident in the Club activities and summer camps and those events were frequently used to promote women as legitimate members. On a regular basis, women were perceived in the ACC as able as men. They were encouraged and helped, and after the ACC's first camp it was decided that the dress-code for women would be the same as for men (which was very unusual in the early 20th century society). However, this official equality was sometimes challenged. Indeed, Arthur Wheeler's efforts to publicly acknowledge women's contribution to the ACC led to the distinction of women as a special group. Praising women for their ability to perform basic mountaineering skills, accomplishments for which men's ability was not even questioned, contributed to a sort of patronizing attitude towards women members. For instance, before 1923, no women were to be found among the ACC members volunteer guides. Nevertheless, the ACC played an important part in women's mountaineering, and some women, both American and Canadian, became important and famous mountaineers, such as Phyllis Munday.\n\nThe continuing mission of the Alpine Club of Canada is to \"foster alpine experiences, knowledge and culture; promoting responsible access; and supporting excellence in alpine leadership and skills\". Membership in the national organization is approximately 10,000, and the Club also represents Canada as a member of the Union Internationale des Associations d'Alpinisme (UIAA) – an international \"organization of climbing organizations\". In this way the ACC works towards its vision of \"Preserving, practicing and promoting Canadian mountain culture and self-propelled alpine pursuits.\"\n\nThe Alpine Club of Canada operates an extensive system of alpine club huts available to both members and non-members, primarily in the Canadian Rockies, providing rustic accommodation (though many of these huts are accessible only by experienced mountaineers). These huts offer exceptional access to the backcountry, and a quick look at a few of these facilities and their surroundings provides a survey of the mountain recreation resources available in Canada. For example:\n\n\nMost of these huts require advance reservation. Members may reserve huts earlier than the general public.\n\nThe Alpine Club of Canada Clubhouse located in Canmore is also accommodation. The Clubhouse facilities, affiliated with Hosteling International, are located 4.5 kilometers northeast from downtown Canmore. Positioned on the sunny north side of the bench, it has views of the Bow Valley. Visitors undertake hiking, biking trails, climbing routes and a number of other outdoor activities. Members and Non-member are able to stay at the accommodation.\n\nThe main building (The Clubhouse) is furnished with a kitchen, large living room, meeting room, TV/Game room, laundry, WiFi, two decks and a BBQ. The Bell Cabin is a smaller version of the Clubhouse. The Boswell has private rooms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45532897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45532897", "title": "Araba Euskaraz", "text": "Araba Euskaraz\n\nAraba Euskaraz is the festivity that ikastola-s (schools in which Basque is the language of instruction) of Álava celebrate. The Ikastola-s' Association organizes it annually in mid-June, and it was first organized in 1981 in Vitoria, capital of Álava.\n\nEvery year it is celebrate it in a different place by a different ikastola, with the aim of promote the use of Euskara in Álava, as well as helping to collect money to improve the infrastructures of the ikastola-s.\n\nThe celebration is organized around a circuit, where you are involve in certain activities that are aimed at the general public (concerts, performers, etc.). Different music groups get together this day to make a memorable and entertaining festival.\n\nIn 2015, it is celebrating the 45th edition, and it will take place on June 14 under the theme \"Piztu Euskara\" and the logo of a bulb, an invitation to \"turn on\" the use of the Basque language. It has been decided to organize it in the capital mainly for economic reasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28355793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28355793", "title": "Bachgoti Khanzada", "text": "Bachgoti Khanzada\n\nThe Bachgoti Khanzada is a Muslim community found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They are a sub-group within the larger Khanzada community of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Common surnames include khan and kunwar.\n\nThe Bachgoti Khanzada claim descent from Tilok Chand, a Bachgoti Rajput chieftain, who was a contemporary of the Mughal Emperor Babar. Tilok Chand is said to have been captured by the Emperor, after an unsuccessful rebellion, and given the option to convert to Islam, or face long incarceration. He chose the former option, and took the new name Tatar Khan. His sons, Barid Khan and Jalal Khan adopted the name the khanzada, which literally means a son of a khan. Hasan Khan, a son of Barid Khan, is said to have founded the town of Hasanpur, which was the headquarters of the tribe. The Bachgoti Khanzada were substantial landowners in eastern Uttar Pradesh, and provided the taluqdar families of Hasanpur, Maniarpur and Gangeo.\n\nThe Bachgoti Khanzada are found mainly in the districts of Faizabad and Sultanpur. They are Shia Muslims, the Bachgoti speak both Awadhi and Urdu. They were at one time substantial landowners, but with the carrying out of land reform by the government of India after independence in 1947, they lost many of their larger estates. The community are now small to medium-sized farmers, growing wheat, sorghum, pulses and sugar cane. They have no caste council or panchayat, although there are localized panchayats in their villages. Although the community did practice clan exogamy, this is no longer the case.\n\nThe sense of belonging to the Rajput community remains strong, with the Bachgoti Khanzada still strongly identifying themselves with the wider Rajput community of Awadh, and often refer to themselves as simply Rajput. This is shown by the persistence in their marriages of Rajput customs, like bursting of fire crackers and sending specially made laddoos to biradati members. Many members of the community continue to serve in the armed forces of India, an activity traditionally associated with the Rajputs. However, like other Indian Muslims, there is growing movement towards orthodoxy, with many of their villages containing madrasas. The madrasas have also facilitated the growth of Urdu, with it beginning to replace the Awadhi dialect they traditionally spoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "40110392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40110392", "title": "Belarusians in Lithuania", "text": "Belarusians in Lithuania\n\nThe Belarusian minority in Lithuania (, \"biełarusy\", , \"byelorusy\", Lithuanian: \"baltarusiai\" or \"gudai\") numbered 36,200 persons at the 2011 census, and at 1.2% of the total population of Lithuania, being the third most populous national minority. The Belarusian national minority in Lithuania has deep historical, cultural and political relations. Many famous Belarusians lived and created in Lithuania, mostly its capital Vilnius; it was in Vilnius that the first standardized Belarusian language grammar was printed in.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, only 18.4% of Belarusians speak Belarusian as their mother tongue, while Russian is native for 56.3%, Polish - 9.3%, Lithuanian - 5.2% of Belarusians.\n\nThe most widespread religion among Belarusians are Roman Catholicism (49.6%) and Orthodox (32.3%).\n\nFrancysk Skaryna gymnasium is the only Belarusian school in Vilnius. One Catholic church in Vilnius (St. Bartholomew’s Church) provides religious services in Belarusian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57516637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57516637", "title": "Biographical research", "text": "Biographical research\n\nBiographical research is a qualitative research approach aligned to the social interpretive paradigm of research. The biographical research is concerned with the reconstruction of life histories and the constitution of meaning based on biographical narratives and documents. The material for analysis consists of interview protocols (memorandums), video recordings, photographs, and a diversity of sources. These documents are evaluated and interpreted according to specific rules and criteria. The starting point for this approach is the understanding of an individual biography in terms of its social constitution. The biographical approach was influenced by the symbolic interactionism, the phenomenological sociology of knowledge (Alfred Schütz, Peter L. Berger, and Thomas Luckmann), and ethnomethodology (Harold Garfinkel). Therefore, biography is understood in terms of a social construct and the reconstruction of biographies can give insight on social processes and figurations (as in Norbert Elias), thus helping to bridge the gap between micro-, meso-, and macro- levels of analysis. The biographical approach is particularly important in German sociology. This approach is used in the Social Sciences as well as in Pedagogy and other disciplines. The Research Committee 38 \"Biography and Society\" of the International Sociological Association (ISA) was created in 1984 and is dedicated \"to help develop a better understanding of the relations between individual lives, the social structures and historical processes within which they take shape and which they contribute to shape, and the individual accounts of biographical experience (such as life stories or autobiographies)\".\n\nBiographies, including autobiographies, have always contained a sociological dimension since their advent in the Antiquity (Plutarch). For the most part of the usage of this notion, biographers dealt with outstanding individual personalities (such as politicians and artists) but there were also exceptions, such as Ulrich Bräker’s autobiography, “The Poor Man of Toggenburg” (\"Der arme Mann im Toggenburg\"). The emergence of Sociology influenced an approach to biography that extended this notion beyond the individual dimension, such as the works of Alphons Silbermann on the life of the composer Jacques Offenbach and Norbert Elias on the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart\n\nThe biographical method as a research approach to understand larger groupings was used as sociological material by Florian Znaniecki and William Isaac Thomas in the 1920s. After their work, the biographical approach was considered amongst the dominant research approaches in empirical social research. The study \"The Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918–1920) by Znaniecki and Thomas used an extensive collection of diaries, letters, memoirs, autobiographies, and other personal and archival documents as main source for a sociological investigation. The reception of this work was initially late due to linguistic barriers, but it was then absorbed and disseminated in the Social Science Research Council (SSRC). The biographical research approach formed an important foundation for the development of the Chicago School, which later influenced the symbolic interactionism and the work of sociologists such as Robert E. Park, Ernest W. Burgess, and George Herbert Mead.\n\nAnother milestone in the development of biographical research was the analysis of the life course of delinquent youths written by Clifford R. Shaw in 1930 and 1931. After 1945, the interest in biographical research declined due to the success of quantitative methods and structural-functionalist theories. The biographical approach influence was felt mainly in the study of deviance. In 1978, Aaron Victor Cicourel published a case study on the life history of a boy named Mark, that received special attention in the discipline of social work. Cicourel’s study explored in detail how a criminal career was constructed through police interrogation, individual and distorted interpretations, and institutional documents.\n\nSince the 1980s, biographical research gained momentum in the wake of a growing interest for qualitative social research. Biographical research is now a recognized approach in sociology, especially in the German Sociological Tradition (see Fritz Schütze, Martin Kohli, Werner Fuchs-Heinritz and others). This development was supported by a tendency to shift the sociological focus from system and structure to the lifeworld, the everyday life, and the resurgence of phenomenological approaches in sociology (under the influence of Edmund Husserl). The sociology turned to the reconstruction of biographical cases and individual life courses as a form to gain insight on social processes.\n\nWith the increasing pluralization of life-worlds, modernization, and differentiation in Postmodern societies, the dissolution of traditional values and the conference of meaning, the biographical approach proved useful to study these social phenomena of the turn of the millennium. The actor became an intersection of different and sometimes divergent determinants, logics, expectations, normative models, and institutionalized mechanisms of control (see Georg Simmel’s chapter “The Intersection of Social Circles”). The “normal biography” broke up and prompted the individual to manage his life course on his own and to find solutions amongst different and contradictory influencing factors and figurations. In this situation, the self-discovered biographical identity with its endangered transitions, breaks, and status changes becomes a conflict between institutional control and individual strategy.\n\nThe reconstructive approach in biographical research, which is connected to the phenomenological and Gestalt approaches, was methodologically developed by the German sociologist Gabriele Rosenthal. Rosenthal used principles of the method of objective hermeneutics and the reconstructive analysis of Ulrich Oevermann, and the Gestalt and structure considerations proposed by Aron Gurwitsch and Kurt Koffka to develop a method for the reconstruction of biographical cases.\n\nIn the context of qualitative researches, the biographical research is to be seen as a case-reconstructive approach. The decision to reconstruct cases is in itself an approach to the field rather than a specific research method. Biographical research does not use a single method for data analysis. The most commonly used methods for data construction in biographical research is the biographical narrative interview (see Fritz Schütze) and/or open interviews. Many use content analysis to analyze the biographical data. The diversity of biographical sources turns an inductive approach, as used in quantitative social research, unfruitful. The logic of an abductive reasoning process is preferred by many researchers that use the biographical approach. The principles of a grounded theory (as in Barney Glaser and Anselm Strauss) are often applied alongside a biographical research.\n\nThe questions regarding the possibility to use individual cases to create scientifically valid generalizations arise from the use of the abductive reasoning. This is que question of the sustainability of abductive conclusions (as in Charles Sanders Peirce). The abductive conclusion that biographical cases are socially relevant and bear general patterns of behavior, action, and interpretation in them is common in sociological practice, although some think that it is not yet fully developed. Different approaches to the development of typologies exist, as well as for the contrastive comparison between types in order to allow for theoretical generalizations (see Uta Gerhardt, 1984; Gabriele Rosenthal, 1993; and Susann Kluge, 2000).\n\nA fundamental problem exists regarding the differences between the levels of the experienced (\"erlebte\") life history and the narrated (\"erzählte\") life story. Another fundamental implication is the interrelation of experience, memory, and narration. In the early studies of biographical research, great value was placed on the reconstruction of the actual life course of the individual using data from additional sources (such as institutional archives, diaries, interviews with relatives and friends, etc.) and thus eliminating “errors” in the memory and presentation of the interviewee. Today – according to the phenomenological “bracketing” of the being of objects (as by the grounded theory principles) – it is increasingly assumed that the actual life course cannot be reconstructed: experiences are always interpreted by the subject and are mediated by perception, thus constituting the memory in regard to the framework of the overall biography as well as to the situation (for more, see Erving Goffmann notion of frame analysis) where the narrative is collected.\n\nThus, the main concern of the biographical research should be the life as experiences and narrated by subjects in clear contrast to the “true facts” of a life course reconstruction. Interpretations and constructions of meaning are of utmost importance to reconstruct a biographical case, as the actions and the self-interpretation of these actions by the individual turns his own biography into a coherent totality. Based on empirical experiences with narrated life history and using the research method of biographical narrative interviews, the method of biographical case reconstruction has developed in the last decades in fields that range from the study of migration to professional careers and healthcare.\n\nThe question of the construction of meaning leads to the questions of the subjectively intended and the objective meaning. Ulrich Oevermann says that an actor in a situation of interaction produces more meaning than he is aware of. Therefore, some researchers consider the task of the biographical research to be the reconstruction of both types of meaning – the intended and the objective. Behind and below the interpretations expressed by the interviewees are the latent structures of meaning that constitute the sense of life and manifest themselves in biographical life situations. In these latent, hidden patterns of meaning, individual experience and societal conditioning are intertwined. Thus, behind individual action lies a direction and a framework for action. According to Heinz Bude, the method of objective hermeneutics and reconstruction of structures of meaning is used in biographical research as a method for the reconstruction of the latent structures of meaning at play in specific situations of a case\n\nAlheit, Peter (1994): Everyday Time and Life Time. On the Problems of Healing Contradictory Experienced of Time. In: Time & Society, Vol, 3 (3), 305-319.\n\nApitzsch, Ursula; Inowlocki, Lena (2000): Biographical Analysis. A Germans School? In: Chamberlayne, Prue; Bornat, Joanna; Wengraf, Tom (Eds.): The Turn to Biographical Methods in Social Sciences. Comparative Issues and Examples. London: Routledge, 53-70.\n\nBertaux, Daniel; Kohli, Martin (1984): The Life Story Approach: A Continental View. In: Annual Review of Sociology, 10, 215-237.\n\nFlick, Uwe; Kardorff, Ernst von; Steinke, Ines (Eds.) (2004): A companion to Qualitative Research. London, UK: Sage Publications.\n\nFlick, Uwe (2009): An Introduction to Qualitative Research. Los Angeles, USA: Sage Publications.\n\nGlaser, Barney; Strauss, Anselm (1967): The Discovery of Grounded Theory. Chicago, USA: Aldine Press.\n\nGoffman, Erving (1959): The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life. Garden City, NY: Doubleday.\n\nGoffman, Erving (1974): Frame Analysis: An Essay on the Organization of Experience. New York, NY: Harper Publishing.\n\nHitzler, Ronald (2005): The Reconstruction of Meaning. Notes on German Interpretive Sociology. In: Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research [Online Journal], 2005, 6(3), Art. 45.\n\nMead, George Herbert (1972 [1934]): Mind, Self, and Society: From the Standpoint of a Social Behaviorist. Chicago, USA: University of Chicago Press.\n\nRiemann, Gerhard (2003): A Joint Project Against the Backdrop of a Research Tradition: An Introduction to \"Doing Biographical Research“. In: Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung / Forum: Qualitative Social Research [Online Journal], 2003, 4(3).\n\nRosenthal, Gabriele (1993): Reconstruction of Life Stories. Principles of selection in generating stories for narrative biographical interviews. In: The Narrative Study of Lives. Thousands Oaks: Sage Publications, 59-91.\n\nRosenthal, Gabriele (1997): National Identity or Multicultural Autobiography: Theoretical Concepts of Biographical Constitution Grounded in Case Reconstructions. In: The Narrative Study of Lives. Thousands Oaks: Sage Publications, 21-29.\n\nRosenthal, Gabriele (2018): Interpretive Social Research. An Introduction. Göttingen: Universitätsverlag Göttingen.\n\nSchütz, Alfred; Luckmann, Thomas (1973): The Structures of the Life-world. Evanston: Northwestern University Press.\n\nSchütze, Fritz (2007a): Biography analysis on the empirical base of autobiographical narratives: How to analyse autobiographical narrative interviews, Part I In: INVITE - Biographical counselling in rehabilitative vocational training: Further education curriculum, Module B.2.1.\n\nSchütze, Fritz (2007b): Biography analysis on the empirical base of autobiographical narratives: How to analyse autobiographical narrative interviews, Part II In: INVITE - Biographical counselling in rehabilitative vocational training: Further education curriculum, Module B.2.2.\n\nZnaniecki, Florian; Thomas, William Isaac (1918): . Boston: The Gorham Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "34637855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34637855", "title": "Blue Planet Prize", "text": "Blue Planet Prize\n\nThe Blue Planet Prize recognises outstanding efforts in scientific research or applications of science that contribute to solving global environmental problems. The prize was created by the Asahi Glass Foundation in 1992, the year of the Rio Earth Summit, and since then the foundation has awarded the prize to two winners every year. In 2012, twenty of the Blue Planet Prize winners collaborated on a joint paper that was launched at the UN Environment Programme's Governing Council meeting in Nairobi on 20 February.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58004095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58004095", "title": "Bob Barker Company", "text": "Bob Barker Company\n\nBob Barker Company, Inc. is an American company that sells supplies to prisons. The company was founded in 1972, with headquarters in Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina, and a distribution and sales center in Ogden, Utah. Its products include prisoner and officer uniforms, bedding, toiletries, cleaning supplies and security and restraint equipment.\n\nAccording to the company's website, founder Bob Barker, a former newspaper editor from North Carolina, initially started the company selling supplies and equipment to restaurants. The company began supplying to jails and prisons in the southeastern United States in the early 1980s.\n\nSince 1995, the company has been awarded at least $13 million in federal prison system contracts in the United States, representing about 100 federal prisons across the country. In 2016, the company began a $4.15 million distribution center expansion in Fuquay-Varina.\n\nA 2008 report by SweatFree Communities, a campaign of the International Labor Rights Forum, alleged use of Bangladesh-based sweatshop labor by the company. Company president Robert Barker Jr. responded by stating the company only worked with suppliers that \"share our commitment to the health and safety of those working in this industry.\"\n\nIn 2009, the company founded the philanthropic Bob Barker Company Foundation, with a focus on reducing recidivism.\n\nWhile prison lore has suggested that the company is affiliated with game show host Bob Barker, there is no relationship between the two.\n\n"}
{"id": "35146394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35146394", "title": "Cajamarca Quechua", "text": "Cajamarca Quechua\n\nCajamarca Quechua is a variety of Quechua spoken in the districts of Chetilla, Baños del Inca and Cajamarca (Porcón) in the Peruvian province of Cajamarca, along the northwest coast of Peru.\n\nIt was never spoken throughout the region, where other indigenous languages like Mochica were spoken .\n\nCajamarca Quechua is severely endangered, as hardly any children are now learning it.\n\nCajamarca Quechua belongs to Quechua II, subgroup Cajamarca–Cañaris (Quechua II a, Yunkay) and is closest to Lambayeque Quechua, with which it has 94% lexical similarity. Félix Quesada published the first grammar and dictionary in 1976.\n\nThere are three vowels: /a, i, u/\n\n"}
{"id": "428424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428424", "title": "Catallactics", "text": "Catallactics\n\nCatallactics is a theory of the way the free market system reaches exchange ratios and prices. It aims to analyse all actions based on monetary calculation and trace the formation of prices back to the point where an agent makes his or her choices. It explains prices as they are, rather than as they \"should\" be. The laws of catallactics are not value judgments, but aim to be exact, objective and of universal validity. It was used extensively by the Austrian School economist Ludwig von Mises.\n\nCatallactics is a praxeological theory, the term catallaxy being used by Friedrich Hayek to describe \"the order brought about by the mutual adjustment of many individual economies in a market.\" Hayek was dissatisfied with the usage of the word \"economy\" because its Greek root, which translates as \"household management\", implies that economic agents in a market economy possess shared goals. He derived the word \"Catallaxy\" (Hayek's suggested Greek construction would be rendered καταλλαξία) from the Greek verb \"katallasso\" (καταλλάσσω) which meant not only \"to exchange\" but also \"to admit in the community\" and \"to change from enemy into friend.\"\n\nAccording to Mises (\"Human Action\", p. 3) and Hayek it was Richard Whately who coined the term \"catallactics\". Whately's \"Introductory Lectures on Political Economy\" (1831) reads:\n\n"}
{"id": "5871313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5871313", "title": "Chinois (Réunion)", "text": "Chinois (Réunion)\n\nChinois, also referred to by the Réunion Creole name Sinwa or Sinoi, are ethnic Chinese residing in Réunion, a French overseas department in the Indian Ocean. As of 1999, roughly 25,000 lived on the island, making them one of Africa's largest Chinese communities along with Chinese South Africans, Chinese people in Madagascar, and Sino-Mauritians.\n\nDespite their French citizenship, the Chinois form a group with origins distinct from the Chinese in metropolitan France. The first Chinese to arrive in Réunion came not directly from China, but rather were indentured labourers drawn from among the population of Chinese in Malaya, who arrived on the island in 1844 to work in grain production and levee-building. They violently resisted the slave-like manner in which they were treated, and as a result, the colonial government put a stop to the immigration of Chinese indentured labourers just two years later.\n\nBeginning in the 1850s, Cantonese-speakers began to arrive from Mauritius. It was common for a Sino-Mauritian to bring his relatives over from China to Mauritius for a period of apprenticeship in his business; after they had gained sufficient familiarity with commercial practises and life in a colonial society, he would send them onwards with letters of introduction, lending them his own capital to start up businesses in neighbouring regions, including Réunion. Hakka-speakers, from Mauritius came as well in this manner starting only in the late 1880s.\n\nHowever, re-migration from Mauritius was not the only source of free Chinese migration to Réunion. In 1862, Réunion's government liberalised their immigration laws, allowing any foreigner to take up employment. Each year, a few hundred Cantonese-speaking migrants from Guangdong took advantage of this law and arrived in Réunion. Hakkas from Meixian and French Indochina began to arrive around the same time as those from Mauritius, in the late 1880s. As in other overseas Chinese communities, conflict between Cantonese- and Hakka-speakers was a common feature of social life, and the two groups tried to avoid contact with each other; the Hakka migrants settled in the south of the island, especially at Saint-Pierre and Le Tampon. Re-migration from Mauritius to Réunion continued in this manner until around 1940. Migrants were almost all male; until the late 1930s or early 1940s, fewer than one thousand had arrived on the island.\n\nAfter World War II, metropolitan French immigration laws were extended to cover Réunion. Along with the closure of China's borders in 1950, this meant that Chinese migration to the island largely came to a halt. By that time, the Chinese population of the island was roughly four thousand. Today's Chinois consist largely of their descendants. However, roughly 2,000 more new expatriates have come from the People's Republic of China in recent years.\n\nThe first Chinese school in Réunion was set up at Saint-Denis in 1927, but closed three years later when the teacher returned to China. In the following decade, more schools were set up privately, financed by contributions from Chinese businessmen. Prior to the 1950s, locally born ethnic Chinese children typically attended these Chinese schools, and as a result, they spoke both Chinese and Creole fluently, but not French. However, authorities looked dimly on such schools, seeing them as promoting cultural separatism, and so imposed a variety of regulations on their operation, requiring that they spend more time on French-language teaching than Chinese-language teaching. As a result, new bilingual schools were established, the two most famous of which were the ones at Saint-Denis and Saint-André.\n\nAfter World War II, education in French schools became mandatory. As a result, the generation who entered school after then typically speak little Chinese; however, many of them went to metropolitan France for their higher education, and as a result speak both French and Creole fluently. In an effort to \"return to their roots\", members of this generation and the younger ones have been attempting to reconnect to Chinese culture through cultural and language courses, return trips to their ancestors' villages in China, and the like. However, they are largely assimilated to French and Creole culture, and feel little connection to today's China, which has undergone huge changes since their ancestors emigrated.\n\nThe immigrant generation, as well their children who were educated locally in Chinese schools, often found self-employment as shopkeepers; in the 1970s, with rising standards of living on the island, they were able to expand their small shops into spacious markets. Their children, who were educated in France, have entered the liberal professions, such as medicine, dentistry, law, and architecture, or found employment in accountancy and engineering firms or the public sector.\n\nChinese cuisine is now consumed by people all over Réunion. One of the most visible culinary legacies of South China are \"bouchons\", known as \"shumai\" in North American dim sum restaurants. Pork \"bouchons\" are commonly eaten in baguettes and paninis with melted cheese and hotsauce. \"Riz cantonais\", a basic fried rice with diced vegetables and roasted pork, is another common dish. Chinese migrants also introduced a number of different plants and animals to the island, including a Chinese variety of the guava known locally and in Mauritius and the Seychelles as \"goyave de Chine\". Réunion is famous for its lychees, also from China.\n\n"}
{"id": "251484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251484", "title": "Coloureds", "text": "Coloureds\n\nColoureds () are a multiracial ethnic group native to Southern Africa who have ancestry from more than one of the various populations inhabiting the region, including Khoisan, Bantu, Afrikaner, English, Austronesian, East Asian or South Asian. Because of the combination of ethnicities, different families and individuals within a family may have a variety of different physical features.\n\nIn the Western Cape, a distinctive Cape Coloured and affiliated Cape Malay culture developed. In other parts of Southern Africa, people classified as Coloured were usually the descendants of individuals from two distinct ethnicities. Genetic studies suggest the group has the highest levels of mixed ancestry in the world. Mitochondrial DNA studies have demonstrated that the maternal lines of the Coloured population are descended mostly from African Khoisan women. This ethnicity shows a gender-biased admixture. Male lines have been primarily African, Asian Indian, and Southeast Asian.\n\nColoureds are to be mostly found in the western part of South Africa. In Cape Town, they form 45.4% of the total population, according to the South African National Census of 2011.\n\nThe apartheid-era Population Registration Act, 1950, and subsequent amendments, codified the Coloured identity, and defined its subgroups. Indian South Africans were initially classified under the act as a subgroup of Coloured.\n\nThe Coloured community is predominantly descended from numerous interracial sexual unions, primarily between Western European men and Khoisan or mixed-race women in the Cape Colony from the 17th century onwards.\n\nIn KwaZulu-Natal, the Coloured possess a diverse heritage including British, Irish, German, Mauritian, Saint Helenian, Indian, Xhosa and Zulu. \n\nZimbabwean Coloured are descended from Shona or Ndebele, and British and Afrikaner settlers. Griqua, on the other hand, are descendants of Khoisan women and Afrikaner Trekboers. Despite these major differences, as both groups have ancestry from more than one \"naturalised\" racial group, they are classified as \"coloured\" in the South African context. Such mixed-race people did not necessarily self-identify this way; some preferred to call themselves \"black\" or \"Khoisan\" or just \"South African\".\n\nThe Griqua were subjected to an ambiguity of other creole people within Southern African social order. According to Nurse and Jenkins (1975), the leader of this “mixed” group, Adam Kok I, was a former slave of the Dutch governor who was manumitted and provided land outside Cape Town in the eighteenth century (Nurse 1975:71). With territories beyond the Dutch East India Company’s administration, Kok provided refuge to deserting soldiers, runaway slaves, and remaining members of various Khoikhoi tribes. In South Africa and neighbouring countries, the white minority governments historically segregated Africans from Europeans after settlement had progressed. They classified all such \"mixed race\" people together in one class, despite their numerous ethnic and national differences in ancestry. The imperial and apartheid governments categorized them as Coloured. In addition, other distinctly homogeneous ethnic groups also traditionally viewed the mixed-race populations as a separate group.\n\nDuring the apartheid era in South Africa of the second half of the 20th century, the government used the term \"Coloured\" to describe one of the four main racial groups it defined by law. This was an effort to impose white supremacy and maintain racial divisions. Individuals were classified as white South Africans (formally classified as \"European\"), black South Africans (formally classified as \"Native\", \"Bantu\", or simply \"African\", and comprising the majority of the population), Coloureds (mixed-race), and Indians (formally classified as \"Asian\").\n\nColoured people may have ethnic ancestry from Indonesia, mixed-race, and Khoisan ancestry. The Apartheid government treated them as one people, despite their differences. 'Cape Muslims' were also classified as 'coloured.' They generally have Indonesian and black ancestry, as many Indonesian slaves had children with African partners. Many Griqua began to self-identify as \"Coloureds\" during the apartheid era, because of the benefits of such classification. For example, Coloureds did not have to carry a \"dompas\" (an identity document designed to limit the movements of the non-white populace), while the Griqua, who were seen as an indigenous African group, did.\n\nIn the 21st century, Coloured people constitute a plurality of the population in the provinces of Western Cape (48.8%), and a large minority in the Northern Cape (40.3%), both areas of centuries of mixing among the populations. In the Eastern Cape, they make up 8.3% of the population. Most speak Afrikaans, as they were generally descendants of Dutch and Afrikaner men and grew up in their society. About twenty percent of the Coloured speak English as their mother tongue, mostly those of the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. Virtually all Cape Town Coloured are bilingual. Some can comfortably codeswitch between \"Kaapse taal\" (a creolized dialect of Afrikaans spoken mostly in the Cape Flats) and \"suiwer Afrikaans\" (formal Afrikaans as used in schools and media), and South African English.\n\nAt least one genetic study indicates that Cape Coloureds have ancestries from the following ethnic groups; not all Coloureds in South Africa had the same ancestry. \n\nThe Malagasy component in the Coloured composite gene pool is itself a blend of Malay and Bantu genetic markers.\n\nThis genetic admixture appears to be gender-biased. A majority of maternal genetic material is Khoisan. The Coloured population is descended predominantly from unions of European and European-African males with autochthonous Khoisan females.\n\nColoured people played an important role in the struggle against apartheid and its predecessor policies. The African Political Organisation, established in 1902, had an exclusively Coloured membership; its leader Abdullah Abdurahman rallied Coloured political efforts for many years. Many Coloured people later joined the African National Congress and the United Democratic Front. Whether in these organisations or others, many Coloured people were active in the fight against apartheid.\n\nThe political rights of Coloured people varied by location and over time. In the 19th century they theoretically had similar rights to Whites in the Cape Colony (though income and property qualifications affected them disproportionately.) In the Transvaal Republic or the Orange Free State, they had few rights. Coloured members were elected to Cape Town's municipal authority (including, for many years, Abdurahman). The establishment of the Union of South Africa gave Coloured people the franchise, although by 1930 they were restricted to electing White representatives. They conducted frequent voting boycotts in protest. Such boycotts may have contributed to the victory of the National Party in 1948. They carried out an apartheid programme that stripped Coloured people of their remaining voting powers.\n\nColoured people were subject to forced relocation. For instance, the government relocated Coloured from the urban Cape Town areas of District Six, which was later bulldozed. Other areas they were forced to leave included Constantia, Claremont, Simon's Town. Inhabitants were moved to racially designated sections of the metropolitan area on the Cape Flats. Additionally, under apartheid, Coloured people received educations inferior to that of Whites. It was, however, better than that provided to Black South Africans.\n\nJ. G. Strijdom, known as \"the Lion of the North\", worked to restrict Coloured rights. He removed their ability to exercise their franchise. Strijdom's government expanded the number of Senate seats from 48 to 89. All of the additional 41 members hailed from the National Party. It increased its representation in the Senate to 77 in total. The Appellate Division Quorum Bill increased the number of judges necessary for constitutional decisions in the Appeal Court from five to eleven. Strijdom, knowing that he had his two-thirds majority, held a joint sitting of parliament in May 1956. The entrenchment clause regarding the Coloured vote, known as the South African Act, was amended.\n\nColoureds were placed on a separate voters' roll. They could elect four whites to represent them in the House of Assembly. Two whites would be elected to the Cape Provincial Council, and the governor general could appoint one senator. Both blacks and whites opposed this measure. The Torch Commando was very prominent, while the Black Sash (white women, uniformly dressed, standing on street corners with placards) also made themselves heard.\n\nMany Coloureds refused to register for the new voters' roll. The number of Coloured voters dropped dramatically. In the next election, only 50.2% of them voted. They had no interest in voting for white representatives—an activity which many of them saw as pointless.\n\nUnder the Population Registration Act, as amended, Coloureds were formally classified into various subgroups, including Cape Coloureds, Cape Malays and \"other coloured\". A portion of the small Chinese South African community was also classified as a coloured subgroup.\n\nIn 1958, the government established the Department of Coloured Affairs, followed in 1959 by the Union for Coloured Affairs. The latter had 27 members and served as an advisory link between the government and the Coloured people.\n\nThe 1964 Coloured Persons Representative Council turned out to be a constitutional hitch which never really got going. In 1969, the Coloureds elected forty onto the council to supplement the twenty nominated by the government, taking the total number to sixty.\n\nFollowing the 1983 referendum, in which 66.3% of white voters supported the change, the Constitution was reformed to allow the Coloured and Asian minorities limited participation in separate and subordinate Houses in a tricameral Parliament. This was part of a change in which the Coloured minority was to be allowed limited rights, but the Black majority were to become citizens of independent homelands. These separate arrangements were removed by the negotiations which took place from 1990 to provide all South Africans with the vote.\n\nDuring the 1994 all-race elections, some Coloured people voted for the white National Party. The National Party recast itself as the New National Party, partly to attract non-White voters. This political alliance, often perplexing to outsiders, has sometimes been explained in terms of the culture and language shared by White and Coloured New National Party members, who both spoke Afrikaans. In addition, both groups opposed affirmative action programmes that might give preference to non-Coloured Black people, and some Coloured people feared giving up older privileges, such as access to municipal jobs, if African National Congress gained leadership in the government.\n\nSince the late 20th century, Coloured identity politics have grown in influence. The Western Cape has been a site of the rise of opposition parties, such as the Democratic Alliance (DA). The Western Cape is considered as an area in which this party might gain ground against the dominant African National Congress. The Democratic Alliance drew in some former New National Party voters and won considerable Coloured support. The New National Party collapsed in the 2004 elections. Coloured support aided the Democratic Alliance's victory in the 2006 Cape Town municipal elections.\n\nPatricia de Lille, former mayor of Cape Town and founder of the now-defunct Independent Democrats, does not use the label Coloured but many observers would consider her as Coloured by visible appearance. The Independent Democrats party sought the Coloured vote and gained significant ground in the municipal and local elections in 2006, particularly in districts in the Western Cape with high proportions of Coloured residents. The firebrand Peter Marais (formerly a provincial leader of the New National Party) has sought to portray his New Labour Party as the political voice for Coloured people.\n\nColoured people supported and were members of the African National Congress before, during and after the apartheid era: notable politicians include Ebrahim Rasool (previously Western Cape premier), Beatrice Marshoff, John Schuurman and Allan Hendrickse. The Democratic Alliance won control over the Western Cape during the 2009 National and Provincial Elections and has since brokered an alliance with the Independent Democrats.\n\nThe Congress has had some success in winning Coloured votes, particularly among labour-affiliated and middle-class Coloured voters. Some Coloureds express distrust of the ANC with the comment, saying that the Coloured were considered \"not white enough under apartheid, and not black enough under the ANC.\"\nIn the 2004 election, voter apathy was high in historically Coloured areas.\n\nAccording to the \"Christian Science Monitor\", around 4 in 100 South African marriages occur between members of South Africa's major ethnoracial groups, with trepidation toward interracial marriage polling far lower among black South Africans than among white South Africans. It is not known how many descendants of post-apartheid interracial relationships identify as Coloured or with the Coloured minority group.\n\nThe term Coloured is also used in Namibia, to describe persons of mixed race, specifically part Khoisan, and part European. The \"Basters\" of Namibia constitute a separate ethnic group that are sometimes considered a sub-group of the Coloured population of that country. Under South African rule, the policies and laws of apartheid were extended to what was then called South West Africa. In Namibia, Coloureds were treated by the government in a way comparable to that of South African Coloureds.\n\nIn Zimbabwe and to a lesser extent Zambia, the term Coloured or \"Goffal\" was used to refer to people of mixed race. Most are descended from mixed African and British, or African and Indian, progenitors. Some Coloured families descended from Cape Coloured migrants from South Africa who had children with local women. Under Rhodesia's predominantly white government, Coloureds had more privileges than black Africans, including full voting rights, but still faced social discrimination. The term Coloured is also used in Swaziland.\n\nNumerous South African cuisines can be traced back to Coloured people. It is said that bobotie, snoek based dishes, koeksisters, bredies, Malay roti are staple diets of Coloureds and other South Africans as well. Most dishes are passed down for many generations.\n\n"}
{"id": "54101623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54101623", "title": "Cow vigilante violence in India since 2014", "text": "Cow vigilante violence in India since 2014\n\nIn India, where cows are venerated by a large segment of the population, cow vigilante violence involving mob attacks in the name of \"cow protection\" targeting mostly Muslims, has swelled since 2014. Cattle slaughter is banned in most states of India. Recently emerged cow vigilante groups, claiming to be protecting cattle, have been violent leading to a number of deaths. Cow-protection groups see themselves as preventing theft, protecting the cow or upholding the law in an Indian state which bans cow slaughter. According to a Reuters report, a total of 63 cow vigilante attacks had occurred in India between 2010 and mid 2017, mostly since the Modi government came to power in 2014. In these attacks between 2010 and June 2017, \"28 Indians – 24 of them Muslims – were killed and 124 injured\", states the Reuter's report.\n\nThere has been a rise in the number of incidents of cow vigilantism since the election of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Indian central government in 2014. The frequency and severity of cow vigilante violence has been described as \"unprecedented\". Human Rights Watch has reported that there has been a surge in cow vigilante violence since 2015. The surge is attributed to the recent rise in Hindu nationalism in India. Many vigilante groups say they feel \"empowered\" by the victory of the Hindu nationalist BJP in the 2014 election. The Supreme Court of India in September 2017 ruled that each state should appoint a police officer in each district as a nodal officer to take strict action against cow vigilantism. The court also expressed its concerns that animals were being illegally slaughtered such as the case of 200 slaughtered cattle found floating in a Bihar river.\n\nThe BJP has run the Indian federal government since its election in 2014. Following Narendra Modi's rise to power, extremist Hindu groups have led attacks across the country that have targeted Muslim and Dalit communities. These attacks have been carried out with the stated intention of protecting cows. Dalit groups are particularly vulnerable to such attacks, as they are frequently responsible for disposing cattle carcasses and skins. The perpetrators of these attacks, described as \"vigilantism\" by Human Rights Watch, have stated that they are protecting the rights of Hindus, and that the police do not adequately deal with cow slaughter. Scholar Radha Sarkar has argued that \"cow vigilantism itself is not new in India, and violence over the protection of cows has occurred in the past. However, the frequency, impunity, and flagrance of the current instances of cow-related violence are unprecedented.\" In 2015 Business Insider reported that vigilante attacks on trucks carrying cattle had increased in Maharastra. In 2017, Bloomberg reported that according to the meat industry representatives, cow vigilantes have been stopping vehicles, extorting money and stealing valuable livestock. Cow vigilante activity also increased during the run up to Bihar Legislative Assembly election, 2015. BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi said the election was \"a fight between those who eat beef and those who are against cow slaughter\". \"The Economist\" argued in 2016 that cow vigilantism can sometimes be a profitable business. It pointed to an \"Indian Express\" investigation that found that vigilantes in Punjab charge cattle transporters 200 rupees ($3) per cow in exchange for not harassing their trucks.\n\nAnalysing the reasons for the vigilantism, scholar Christophe Jaffrelot stated that since its formation, the RSS has intended to transform society from within, by instilling its own sense of discipline into it, which it thought was required for defending Hindus more effectively. He also said that the Hindu nationalists, who claim to represent society at large, do not want the state to prevail over society, and want the society to regulate itself, as per the emphasis on social order and “harmony” or hierarchy, that is suggested in the Hindutva ideology. According to him, this Hindu nationalist approach gives the act of policing a greater legitimacy and it is clearly synonymous with the populist behaviour, since for the populist leader, the people and their will prevail over the rule of law and public institutions. Jaffrelot further remarks:\"The fact that the vigilantes “do the job” is very convenient for the rulers . The state is not guilty of violence since this violence is allegedly spontaneous and if the followers of Hinduism are taking the law into their hands, it is for a good reason — for defending their religion. The moral and political economies of this arrangement are even more sophisticated: The state cannot harass the minorities openly, but by letting vigilantes do so, it keeps majoritarian feelings satisfied. The private armies, which may be useful for polarising society before elections are also kept happy — not only can they flex their muscles, but they usually extort money (violence mostly occurs when they cannot do so, as is evident from the recent cases of lynching).\"\n\nAs of 2016, cow protection vigilante groups were estimated to have sprung up in \"hundreds, perhaps thousands\" of towns and villages in northern India. There were an estimated 200 such groups in Delhi-National Capital Region alone. Some of the larger groups claim up to 5,000 members.\n\nOne kind of cow protection groups are gangs who patrol highways and roads at night, looking for trucks that might be \"smuggling\" cows across the state borders. These gangs can be armed; they justify this by claiming that \"cow smugglers\" themselves are often armed. The Haryana branch of Bhartiya Gau Raksha Dal described to \"The Guardian\" that it had exchanged gunfire with alleged smugglers, killed several of them and lost several of its members too. The gangs have been described as \"unorganized\", and gang leaders admit that their members can be hard to control.\n\nThe gangs consist of volunteers, many of whom are poor laborers. The volunteers often tend to be young. According to a gang leader, \"it’s easy to motivate a youth\". Often the youth are given \"emotional\" motivation by being shown graphic videos of animals being tortured. One member said that cow vigilantism had given him a \"purpose in life\".\n\nThe vigilantes often have a network of informers consisting of cobblers, rickshaw drivers, vegetable vendors etc., who alert them to supposed incidents of cow slaughter. The group members and their network often use social media to circulate information. Their relationship with the police is disputed: some vigilantes claim to work with the police, while others claim that the police are corrupt and incompetent, and that they are forced to take matters into their own hands.\n\nThe BJP government has placed a number of restrictions on the slaughter of cattle. In May 2017 it banned the slaughter of cattle for purpose of exporting beef. This restriction threatened an Indian beef export industry worth $4 billion annually. Several Indian states have tightened restrictions on the slaughter of cows. For example, in March 2015, Maharashtra passed stricter legislation banning the sale, possession, and consumption of beef. Cow vigilantes have also been emboldened by these laws, and attack Muslims suspected of smuggling cattle for slaughter.\n\nSome Indian states have been accused of having laws that enable cow protection groups. In April 2017 the Supreme Court asked the governments of six states: Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh; to respond to a plea asking for a ban against cow-protection related vigilantism, due to the violence perpetrated by these groups. Many vigilantes believe their actions are approved by the government and Hindus of the country. For example, the vigilante group \"Gau Rakshak Dal\", formed in Haryana in 2012, believe it is acting on government mandate. Scholar Radha Sarkar has stated that the bans on beef \"tacitly legitimize vigilante activity.\" Cow protection groups formed in Haryana in 2012 see themselves to now be \"acting upon the mandate of the government.\" Such groups across the country have \"[taken] it upon themselves to punish those they believe to be harming the cow.\" Such incidents of violence have occurred even in situations in which no illegal actions have occurred, such as in the handling of dead cattle. According to Sarkar, cow protection groups have taken actions that they know to be illegal, because they believe that they have the support of the government.\n\nIn November 2016, the BJP-led Haryana government has decided to provide ID cards for cow vigilantes. However they were not issued despite collecting the details of vigilantes. According to Russia Today and Human Rights Watch, many cow protection vigilante groups are allied with the BJP. According to BBC News, many cow-protection vigilantes attend training camps organized by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which is BJP's parent organization. Mukul Kesavan, in \"The Telegraph\", accused BJP officials of justifying vigilantism. He pointed out that after some vigilante attacks, the BJP officials tried to get the police to charge the victims (or their family) for provoking the assault.\n\nIn 2018, a three judge bench of the Supreme Court, made observations that such incidents of vigilantism was mob violence and a crime. In addition, it placed the responsibility to prevent such crimes, on the states.\n\nA number of incidents of violence have occurred since 2014. According to a June 2017 Reuters report, citing a data journalism website, a total of \"28 Indians – 24 of them Muslims – have been killed and 124 injured since 2010 in cow-related violence\". The frequency and severity of cow-related violence have been described as \"unprecedented\". The report stated that \"Almost all of the 63 attacks since 2010 involving cow-related violence were recorded after Modi and his Hindu nationalist government came to power in 2014\".\n\n2014\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAfter an attack on four Dalits in Gujarat in July 2016, thousands of members of the Dalit community took to the streets to protest what they saw was \"government inaction\". The protests spread across the state. In clashes with the police, one policeman was killed and dozens of protesters were arrested. At least five Dalit youth attempted suicide, one of whom died.\n\nA campaign, \"Not In My Name\" was conducted by film-maker Saba Dewan through a Facebook post against the violence. A lot of people took out a morcha at Jantar Mantar in Delhi and more 16 cities across the country, including Mumbai against mob lynching in the name of cow vigilantism.\n\nPost 2014, the Documentation of the Oppressed (DOTO Database), an independent, non-profit documentation center, have created an online platform that compiles the instances of violence, with particular emphasis on marginalized groups and issues. The database aims to provide a repository of the instances of hate violence and giving a wholesome narrative of the same; providing reports that add and supplement media provided information, done for the purpose of aiding in intervention i.e., by advocacy or litigation. DOTO aims to tackle the issue with a right and community-based approach to increase all round vigilance on the issues.\n\nInternational organization, Human Rights Watch in April 2017 reported that Indian authorities should promptly investigate and take action against the self-appointed \"cow protectors\", many linked to extremist Hindu groups, who have carried out attacks against Muslims and Dalits over rumors of selling, buying or killing of cows for beef.\n\nMembers of the BJP have denied supporting cow slaughter vigilantism. In May 2017, Union Minister and BJP leader Smriti Irani has said that the BJP does not support cow protection vigilantes. The \"New York Times\" stated that BJP is partly to blame, as they stoked inflammatory rhetoric over cow slaughter. Siddharth Nath Singh has denied allegations that the BJP administration condones vigilantism and said illegal attacks would be punished.\n\nIn August 2016, Modi has said that cow vigilantism made him angry, and condemned it. Several observers such as Prem Shankar Jha and Zafarul Islam Khan remarked that Modi has selectively condemned vigilante attacks on Dalits but not on Muslims, since while condemning this vigilantism, Modi did not mention 'Muslims' who have been the major victims of the vigilante violence, despite mentioning 'Dalits'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19574952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574952", "title": "Crystal Darkness", "text": "Crystal Darkness\n\nCrystal Darkness is a 30-minute Emmy and Telly Award-winning documentary on the dangers and prevalence of the drug methamphetamine. The film features testimonies of young people who have gone through meth addiction, as well as interviews with high-profile politicians and law enforcement officials.\n\nThe documentary is the centerpiece of a city-by-city, state-by-state campaign and has garnered the attention of residents in regions across the United States when it aired. In Arizona alone, the program reached an estimated 2.5 million residents and took over 1,200 phone calls from persons seeking help with meth addiction.\n\nThe \"Crystal Darkness\" documentary was created and produced in Reno, Nevada in 2006 by Michael Reynolds. The campaign was directed and edited by Logan Needham. The entire program is produced by Global Studio.\n\nA small portion of the film is pre-packaged with information on how meth affects the brain, how it's made, whom it affects and testimonials from law enforcement and individuals who have struggled through its addiction. The rest of the program is filmed in the host city or state with local experts, clinicians and providers, law enforcement, elected officials and recovering addicts.\n\nIt is unique in that each city it airs, it is run as a media roadblock, wherein all the network stations in a target region air it simultaneously. The program also airs in Spanish on Spanish-language stations.\n\nThe documentary features original music by alldaydrive and Today Is The Day NV. Both groups are based in Reno, Nevada.\n\nThe program is sponsored by Childhelp, a national child abuse prevention and treatment non-profit organization. Childhelp is responsible for maintaining the program’s hot line, 1-888-METH-AID, in addition to its child abuse hot line, 1-800-4-A-CHILD. The non-profit organization reports over two-thirds of the cases of child abuse it handles have a direct correlation to meth use or production by the child’s parents or guardian.\n\nThe campaign has reached a large audience wherever it is deployed because of how it is managed. Prior to agreeing to be a host city or state, representatives interested in bringing the program to their community are invited to attend a dinner event the night the program airs in another location. There, they learn from individuals who have run a past campaign what is involved, how the program operates and how they achieved success. Each host city is responsible for pitching the local media to run the program in a media roadblock, where all stations in the region agree to air the program at a certain time and date. The program is a collaboration of effort among religious organizations, law enforcement, elected officials, volunteers, treatment providers, educators, and more. Each is delegated responsibilities ranging from community outreach to compiling a comprehensive provider resource book. Listed below are the regions the campaign has aired in to-date and cities that have campaigns in motion.\n\n\n\n\nIn October, 2008, the Arizona Broadcaster's Association received the Governor's Award from the Rocky Mountain Southwest Chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences. The Emmy Statuette recognized the work of the \"Childhelp Crystal Darkness\" campaign in Arizona and its extensive community outreach. The Governor's Award is given annually to a deserving program and is the highest achievement the NATAS Chapter rewards.\n\n"}
{"id": "33250386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33250386", "title": "Freedom of Information requests to the Climatic Research Unit", "text": "Freedom of Information requests to the Climatic Research Unit\n\nFreedom of Information requests to the Climatic Research Unit featured in press discussions of disputes over access to data from instrumental temperature records, particularly during the Climatic Research Unit email controversy which began in November 2009.\n\nThe UK Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) came into effect in 2005, and FOI requests were made to the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) at the University of East Anglia (UEA) for the raw data from weather stations used in developing instrumental temperature record datasets, for copies of agreements under which the raw data was obtained from meteorology institutions, and also for email correspondence relating to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fourth Assessment Report.\n\nIn many cases the raw data which CRU had obtained from was subject to restrictions on redistribution: on 12 August 2009 CRU announced that they were seeking permission to waive these restrictions, and on 24 November 2009 the university stated that over 95% of the CRU climate data set had already been available for several years, with the remainder to be released when permissions were obtained. In a decision announced on 27 July 2011 the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) required release of raw data even though permissions had not been obtained or in one instance had been refused, and on 27 July 2011 CRU announced release of the raw instrumental data not already in the public domain, with the exception of Poland which was outside the area covered by the FOIA request.\n\nA 2008 FOI request by David Holland for emails discussing work on the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report was refused by the university. In November 2009 he alleged that CRU emails posted online discussed deleting the emails he had requested: in January 2010 the Deputy Information Commissioner told a journalist that this indicated an offence under section 77 of the FOIA, but prosecution was time-barred by statute of limitations. Newspapers misrepresented this as a decision in relation to raw data, and the issue was discussed by the House of Commons Science and Technology Select Committee inquiry, which found there had been a lack of openness. The ICO decision published on 7 July 2010 stated that this potential offence had not been investigated as it was time-barred. As Holland was content not to proceed with his complaint against the university, no further action was needed, but the ICO would \"consider whether further action is appropriate to secure future compliance.\"\n\nIn September 2011 the ICO issued new guidance to universities. This described exceptions and exemptions to protect research, including allowance for internal exchange of views between academics and researchers free from external scrutiny, as well as commending actively disclosing information when it is in the public interest.\n\nFrom 1978 onwards, the Climatic Research Unit developed its gridded CRUTEM data set of land air temperature anomalies back to 1850, based on instrumental temperature records held by around the world, often under formal or informal confidentiality agreements that restricted use of this raw data to academic purposes. Beginning in 1991, Phil Jones of CRU discussed data with Warwick Hughes (later of the New Zealand Climate Science Coalition). From 2002 onwards, Jones received requests from Stephen McIntyre for instrumental raw data (McIntyre became prominent in the \"Hockey stick controversy\" over the methodology of paleoclimate graphs shown in the IPCC Third Assessment Report of 2001). Jones says that at first he tried to meet McIntyre's requests, but he soon became inundated with requests that he could not fulfill due to time or confidentiality constraints, and began refusing requests.\n\nThe new UK Freedom of Information Act came into effect in 2005, and in February of that year Jones discussed with fellow climate researchers the potential implications of the Act for McIntyre's requests. In 2007 he told colleagues that, having seen what McIntyre's Climate Audit blog was doing, UEA had been turning down FOIA requests associated with the blog. The scientists concerned saw such requests as disrupting the time available for their work, and those making them as nitpicking to suit an agenda rather than trying to advance scientific knowledge. Late in 2008, the university's FOI managers took advice from the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) on exceptions allowing refusal of requests.\n\nMcIntyre complained that data denied to him had been sent to Peter Webster at the Georgia Institute of Technology, who was working on a joint publication with Jones, and between 24 and 29 July 2009 the university received 58 FOI requests for raw data or details of the confidentiality agreements from McIntyre and his readers at the Climate Audit blog.\nOn 24 July Jonathan A. Jones of the University of Oxford made a FOIA request for the data that Jones had sent to Webster, the UEA refused this request on 14 August. Don Keiller of Anglia Ruskin University in Cambridge then made a similar FOIA request, UEA refused this on 11 September 2009.\n\nOn 12 August 2009, Nature News published a statement by Phil Jones that he was working to release the raw data in a systematic way, and was writing to all the National Meteorological Organisations requesting their agreement to waive confidentiality. In mid October CRU issued a statement on data availability, describing how National Metereological Services (NMSs) and scientists had given or sold them data with written or verbal agreements that it must only used for academic purposes, and not passed onto third parties. There were difficulties in separating out raw data, some of which was subject to charges made by NMSs, and \"These data are not ours to provide without the full permission of the relevant NMSs, organizations and scientists.\" They hoped to obtain consents and to publish all the data jointly with the Met Office.\n\nOn 24 November 2009, four days after the start of the Climatic Research Unit email controversy, the university stated that over 95% of the CRU climate data set had already been available for several years, and the remainder would be released when permissions were given.\nThe university worked closely with the Met Office, which sent requests to National Meteorological Organisations for agreement to waive confidentiality on raw instrumental data, as CRU had announced on 12 August 2009. Some gave full or conditional agreement, others failed to respond, and the request was explicitly refused by Trinidad and Tobago and Poland.\n\nIn discussions with the ICO about the FOIA requests which Jonathan Jones and Don Keiller had made before the email controversy had begun, the university argued that the data was publicly available from the Met organisations, and the lack of agreement exempted the remaining data. In its decision released on 23 June 2011, the ICO stated that the data was not easily available and there was insufficient evidence that disclosure would have an adverse effect on international relations. The ICO required the university to release the data covered by the FOIA request within 35 calendar days. On 27 July 2011 CRU announced release of the raw instrumental data not already in the public domain, with the exception of Poland which was outside the area covered by the FOIA request. The data are available for download from Met Office website and from CRU. The university remained concerned \"that the forced release of material from a source which has explicitly refused to give permission for release could have some damaging consequences for the UK in international research collaborations.\"\n\nIn May 2008 David Holland, an electrical engineer from Northampton, made a FOI request for all emails to and from Keith Briffa about the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4); formal review exchanges had already been published. The University of East Anglia (UEA) information policy and compliance manager (IPCM) refused the request.\n\nHolland appealed to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) about the UEA's refusals of FOI requests he had made for emails to and from Briffa about the IPCC AR4 report. On 23 November 2009, after the start of the Climatic Research Unit email controversy, he wrote to the Commissioner explaining in detail the relevance of the alleged CRU emails to his case. In one of these sent in May 2008, Jones asked others to delete emails discussing AR4 with Briffa. ICO decisions are enforced under Section 50 by notices defining steps to be taken by the public authority within defined time limits, and failure to comply can be taken to court. In addition, Section 77 makes it an offence to intentionally destroy or conceal information which has been requested. In response to a \"Sunday Times\" journalist who persistently asked why the ICO was not prosecuting under Section 77, Deputy Information Commissioner Graham Smith replied on 22 January 2010 that \"The FOI Act makes it an offence for public authorities to act so as to prevent intentionally the disclosure of requested information. Mr Holland's FOI requests were submitted in 2007/8, but it has only recently come to light that they were not dealt with in accordance with the Act. The legislation requires action within six months of the offence taking place, so by the time the action came to light the opportunity to consider a prosecution was long gone.\" The ICO was looking into other investigations time-barred by statute of limitations restrictions to see if a case could be made to change the relevant law. The journalist's report as published in \"The Times\" on 28 January portrayed this as an ICO decision that the university \"broke the law by refusing to hand over its raw data for public scrutiny\" but the ICO \"could not prosecute those involved because the complaint was made too late.\" The university promptly wrote to the ICO objecting to the damaging statement having been made to a journalist without first consulting the university. It described the misrepresentation by the press and requested retraction or clarification of the alleged breaches. The ICO declined to retract, but clarified that its investigation under Section 50 had not been completed and no decision notice had been issued. It said that \"The fact that the elements of a section 77 offence may have been found here, but cannot be acted on because of the elapsed time, is a very serious matter. The ICO is not resiling from its position on this\", and that \"Errors like this are frequently made in press reports and the ICO cannot be expected to correct them, particularly when the ICO has not itself referred to penalties or sanctions in its own statement.\"\n\nIn its submission to the Science and Technology Select Committee, the university denied allegations that it had refused to release raw data in breach of the FOI Act, and said that the Deputy Information Commissioner's comments had been incorrectly reported as referring to such data. In its inquiry report, the Science and Technology Select Committee criticised the ICO, which it said had made \"a statement to the press that went beyond that which it could substantiate\", and recommended that it should develop procedures to check its public comments, and \"swiftly correct any mis-statements or misinterpretations of such statements\". While there was \"prima facie\" evidence of a breach of Section 77 of the FOI Act, it would \"be premature, without a thorough investigation affording each party the opportunity to make representations, to conclude that UEA was in breach of the Act.\" It called for a full investigation by the Muir Russell inquiry or by the Information Commissioner to resolve this issue, and accepted that the six month statute of limitations restriction was insufficient and should be reviewed. On the general issue of information requests, the committee said that information not covered by the exclusions provided by the FOIA should have been disclosed, and \"in future information, including data and methodology, should be published proactively on the internet wherever possible.\" It blamed the university for mishandling Freedom of Information requests, and said it had “found ways to support the culture at CRU of resisting disclosure of information to climate change sceptics”.\n\nThe ICO decision on Holland's requests published on 7 July 2010 concluded that the Environmental Information Regulations (EIR) applied rather than the equivalent FOIA, and the university had failed to provide responses within the correct time, but as Holland was content not to proceed with his complaint, no further action was needed. Regarding the question of whether there had been a breach of section 77 of the FOIA or its equivalent in the EIR, the ICO stated \"Although the emails referred to above indicated prime facie evidence of an offence, the Commissioner was unable to investigate because six months had passed since the potential offence was committed, a constraint placed on the legislation by the Magistrates Court Act 1980.\" On the more general issue of emails suggesting that attempts to circumvent the legislation had been considered, and a lack of openness, the ICO would \"now consider whether further action is appropriate to secure future compliance.\" In an opinion piece, Edward Acton, Vice-Chancellor of the UEA, commended legislation in the US where \"the FOI distinguishes between recorded factual material necessary to validate research findings, which must be disclosed, and ‘preliminary analyses, drafts of scientific papers, plans for future research, peer reviews [and] communications with colleagues’, which are exempted.\"\n\nIn September 2011 the ICO issued new guidance to universities, taking into account issues raised in relation to the CRU information requests. This describes exceptions and exemptions to protect research, including allowance for internal exchange of views between academics and researchers, leaving formulation of opinions on research free from external scrutiny. It notes the benefits of actively disclosing information when it is in the public interest\n"}
{"id": "16458625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16458625", "title": "Govada Dyvasirvadam", "text": "Govada Dyvasirvadam\n\nGovada Dyvasirvadam (born 28 March 1951) was the Bishop of Krishna-Godavari Diocese of the Church of South India\"(incorporating Anglicans, Methodists, and Presbyterians)\".\n\nSt. Andrew's Cathedral in Machilipatnam is the seat of the Bishop-in-Krishna Godavari.\n\nEarlier, in 1998, Dyvasirvadam was elected as the General Secretary of the CSI, the youngest ever in the church's history.\n\nDyvasirvadam was also a member of the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches headquartered in Geneva. as well as a member of the General Committee of the Christian Conference of Asia headquartered in Thailand.\n\nDyvasirvadam was born on 28 March 1951 in Challapalli in Krishna District. He was the tenth child of his parents, Rev. Govada Devamani and Smt. Suguna Sundaram. Schooling was in Krishna and West Godavari districts. He had been an \"alumnus\" of Sreemanthu Raja Higher Secondary School, Challapalli in Krishna District and the Municipal School in Eluru in West Godavari District.\n\nHe later did his college studies in A.V.N. College (\"established in 1860\"), one of the oldest institutes in Visakhapatnam.\n\nDyvasirvadam also pursued post-graduate studies in Noble College, Machilipatnam and was inspired by the then Bishop in Krishna-Godavari, N. D. Ananda Rao Samuel.\n\nAfter studying at the Bishop's College in Calcutta, the Diocese of Krishna Godavari first posted him to Kanumolu near Hanuman Junction in Krishna District.\n\nIn March 1978, he was ordained by Bishop Henry Lazarus as a Deacon in the St. Andrew's Church in Machilipatnam. Later, he was posted to Christ Church in Eluru in West Godavari District. The then Moderator's Commissary, The Right Reverend H. D. L. Abraham \"(Bishop in Medak)\" ordained him as a priest.\n\nWith interest to pursue higher studies in theology, the Diocese granted him study leave. Dyvasirvadam proceeded to the United Theological College, Bangalore, \"[the only autonomous college under the Senate of Serampore College]\" and enrolled himself for the post-graduate degree of Master of Theology (M. Th.) in the discipline of Systematic Theology studying between the years 1982-1984 and worked out a dissertation entitled \"Eschatological motifs in process theologies\" under the Principalship of Joshua Russell Chandran\n\nAfter successful completion of post-graduate studies in theology, his diocese assigned him a teaching task at the ecumenical Andhra Christian Theological College in Hyderabad in which his diocese is a participating member. Dyvasirvadam taught Systematic theology to students pursuing Bachelor of Theology (B.Th.) and Bachelor of Divinity (BD) degrees.\n\nLater, on invitation from the UTC, Bangalore, he went on study leave to serve as the Acting Registrar there. Subsequently, he enrolled for pursuing the doctoral degree (Doctor of Theology – D. Th.) in the South Asia Theological Research Institute (SATHRI) in Bangalore. He chose the discipline of Liberation Theology.\n\nIn 1992, Dyvasirvadam was recalled to the Church of South India Society by then Moderator, Bird Ryder Devapriam and was assigned the responsibility of overseeing pastoral concerns and became Director of the Pastoral Aid Department of the Church of South India Synod, Chennai.\n\nThe biennial Synod of the CSI elected Rev. Dyvasirvadam as its general secretary in 1998 in Arogyavaram in Chittoor District, succeeding George Koshy. He was re-elected unanimously in the Synod of 2000 in Secunderabad and in the Synod of 2002 in Melukavumattam.\nBishop G.Dyvasirvadam has been elected as the Deputy Moderator of CSI in the Synod of 2012 at Kanyakumari.\n\nHe has been elected as the Moderator of CSI in the Synod of 2014 at Vijayawada.\n\nThe CSI Diocese of Krishna-Godavari is one of the largest extending from Ongole District in the south through Srikakulam District in the norther circars of Andhra Pradesh. Its Cathedral was first erected in Eluru and was subsequently shifted to Vijayawada. Earlier Bishop's who served in this diocese were notable and exemplary. Following the retirement of The Right Reverend T. B. D. Prakasa Rao, Rev. Dyvasirvadam contested and was elected unopposed. Subsequently, the Cathedral was shifted to Machilipatnam. St. Andrew's Church was consecrated as a Cathedral.\n\nThe Moderator of the CSI during that time was The Most Reverend K. J. Samuel who principally consecrated him in the St. Andrew's Cathedral in Machilipatnam.\n\nIn the year 2001, friends of the Bishop proceeded to write a 365-page festschrift in his honour on the occasion of the completion of fifty years. Rev. Vinod Victor, Leslie Nathaniel and Rev. Dr. P. Surya Prakash edited the festschrift.\n"}
{"id": "312158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312158", "title": "Hands Across America", "text": "Hands Across America\n\nHands Across America was a benefit event and publicity campaign staged on Sunday, May 25, 1986 in which approximately 6.5 million people held hands in a human chain for fifteen minutes along a path across the contiguous United States. Many participants donated ten dollars to reserve their place in line; the proceeds were donated to local charities to fight hunger and homelessness and help those in poverty.\n\nIn order to allow the maximum number of people to participate, the path linked major cities and meandered back and forth within the cities. Just as there were sections where the \"line\" was six to ten people deep, there were also undoubtedly many breaks in the chain. However, enough people participated that if an average of all the participants had been taken and spread evenly along the route standing four feet (1.2 m) apart, an unbroken chain across the 48 contiguous states would have been able to be formed.\n\nHands Across America raised $34 million. According to \"The New York Times\", only about $15 million was distributed after deducting operating costs.\n\nCities along the route included the following:\n\nThe event was conceived and organized by Ken Kragen. Event implementation was through USA for Africa under the direction of Marty Rogol, the founding Executive Director. A theme song, titled \"Hands Across America,\" was played simultaneously on hundreds of radio stations at 3:00 p.m. Eastern time (noon Pacific time). The song was written by Marc Blatte, John Carney, and Larry Gottlieb (the Spanish version was written by the composer Marcia Bell), and featured lead vocals by session singers Joe Cerisano and Sandy Farina, and the band Toto. The song peaked at #65 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1986.\n\nHands Across America was a project of USA for Africa. USA for Africa produced \"We Are the World\" and the combined revenues raised by both events raised almost $100 million to fight famine in Africa and hunger and homelessness in the United States.\n\nThe date and time chosen for the event inadvertently conflicted with another charity fundraiser, Sport Aid, which was organized by USA for Africa on the same day. Since Hands Across America was much better publicized in the United States, only 4000 runners participated in New York City for Sport Aid.\n\nSen. Edward Kennedy and Rep. Edward Markey led an official protest over every New England state being excluded from Hands Across America in spite of the fact New England was the most densely populated part of America. Political leaders in the South additionally weighed in against the route that was chosen to span the contiguous United States. Various protests broke out in the Upper Midwest, notably Minneapolis and Milwaukee, as well as northwestern cities such as Portland and Seattle. In Hawaii, actor Tom Selleck and Sen. Daniel Inouye led a counter Hands Across Hawaii program that was held to remind mainlanders that \"Hawaiians are Americans, Too!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10995088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10995088", "title": "Huitzilopochco", "text": "Huitzilopochco\n\nHuitzilopochco (sometimes called Churubusco, and other variants) was a small pre-Columbian Nahua \"altepetl\" (city-state) in the Valley of Mexico. Huitzilopochco was one of the \"Nauhtecuhtli\" (\"Four Lords\"), along with Culhuacan, Itztapalapan and Mexicatzinco. The name \"Huitzilopochco\" means \"place of Huitzilopochtli (a god)\" in Nahuatl. The inhabitants of Huitzilopochco were known as \"Huitzilopochca\".\n"}
{"id": "31516973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31516973", "title": "Human trafficking in Finland", "text": "Human trafficking in Finland\n\nHuman trafficking is the trade of humans that can occur internationally or within a nation, often with a goal of sexual slavery, forced labor, commercial sexual exploitation or the removal of organs. Newest forms of human trafficking include ova and surrogacy trade. Persons that are victims of human trafficking are usually recruited or taken by the means of the threat or use of force, or by fraud, kidnapping, deception, abuse of power or a vulnerable position with the aim of exploitation. Some of the biggest reasons for human trafficking are poverty, the global level of gender inequality and the feminization of poverty as well as different kinds of conflicts, cataclysms, religious and ethnic persecutions, violence and discrimination (of especially women).\n\nFinland is a transit, destination, and a limited source country for women and girls subjected to sex trafficking, and for men and women subjected to conditions of forced labor. Finnish legislation condemns trafficking as a crime and has met the standards of the EU Protocol even before the convention came into effect. NGOs and the government cooperate in providing help for the victims of trafficking in Finland. Although the Finnish Police investigated and referred more people to care in 2013, prosecution and conviction numbers of suspected offenders remain low relative to the number of potential victims. The government is currently working on improving the anti-trafficking laws and practices to improve the situation. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017.\n\nIdentifying a person as a victim of trafficking is one of the most difficult tasks when measuring human trafficking. According to Eurostat's 'Trafficking in human beings': \"In accordance with Directive 2011/36/EU, the term \"identified victim\" refers to persons who have been formally identified by the relevant authorities as a victim of trafficking in human beings. The term \"presumed victim\" on the other hand is used for trafficking victims who have met the criteria of the EU Directive but have not been formally identified by the relevant formal authorities as a trafficking victim or who have declined to be formally or legally identified as a trafficking victim.\"\n\nA total of 30,146 identified and presumed victims were registered in the 28 EU Member States in 2010-2012, out of which over a thousand were children trafficked for sexual exploitation. 80 percent of registered victims were female, and 65 percent of registered victims were EU citizens. Of the registered victims who are confirmed as EU citizens, the top 5 countries of citizenship are Bulgaria, Romania, the Netherlands, Hungary and Poland. Over the three years, the top 5 non-EU countries of citizenship of registered victims were Nigeria, Brazil, China, Viet Nam and Russia. There has been an increase in the number of ¨unknown¨ citizenships from 2010 to 2011. In addition, 71 percent of labor exploitation victims were male in the EU Member States during these three years.\n\nFinland is both a transit and a destination country for human trafficking, but human trafficking is less prevalent in Finland than it is in most other EU countries. To some extent Finland is also considered a source country for human trafficking. No incidents of organ trade have been detected in Finland, and trafficking tends to mostly appear in forms of prostitution and procuring (pimping), as well as labor exploitation. Labor exploitation is especially prevalent in berry picking, restaurant, cleaning, metal, transportation, construction and gardening industries as well as in personal households.\nAccording to statistics provided by Eurostat, in 2010-2012 there was a total of 231 registered victims of human trafficking in Finland. The Finnish Police estimate that about 200-250 women cross the Finnish border from the East weekly to work as prostitutes in Finland. Annually about 10,000-15,000 prostitutes spend some amount of time working in Finland. These women are mostly from Russia, Estonia and to some extent from Lithuania and Latvia. A chance of these women being forced to work as prostitutes cannot be excluded. In comparison, the corresponding number of registered victims of human trafficking in Sweden was 311, 179 in Denmark, 125 in Norway, 135 in Estonia and 4,474 in United Kingdom.\n\nFinland is also known to be a transit country for trafficking in children. The children that pass through Finland come mostly from East Asia and they are headed elsewhere in Europe. In Finland, children of immigrants still in the process of seeking asylum are considered to be at risk for being trafficked: a number of children have disappeared from the centers where immigrants stay during the asylum process, so trafficking of children with the aim of exploiting them sexually might also take place in Finland.\n\nFewer than a hundred people seek help from the aid shelters annually in Finland.\n\nA total of 8 551 prosecutions were reported by EU Member States over the years 2010-2012 for human trafficking. Of those cases, in 3,786 the prosecuted was convicted for human trafficking. More than 70 percent of suspected traffickers were male in the EU Member States. Traffickers are often adult males who operate in the country where they are from, but more women and foreigners are involved in human trafficking than in most other crimes. Although most of those prosecuted and/or convicted for trafficking in persons are men, trafficking has a quite high rate of females involved in it. Very few other crimes record a level of female participation in committing the crime such as that of human trafficking. \nVenla Roth, Senior Adviser in Office of the Ombudsman for Minorities and the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, has stated that the conviction rates are so low because in many cases in which the trafficker controlled the victim, the trafficker can say they were not aware of the fact that the victim was dependent on them. Taking advantage of a person's dependence is one of the details defining trafficking in the Finnish Penal Code.\n\nSince 2006, sentences have ranged from 1.5 to 5.5 years imprisonment: there were no reports of suspended sentences. The government did not prosecute any persons for suspected child sex tourism offenses in 2009.\n\nThere were 23 trafficking investigations in Finland in 2012, while the number of people prosecuted for trafficking in 2012 was eight. Eight trafficking offenders were prosecuted in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, there were 12 sex trafficking investigations and 15 labor trafficking investigations in Finland, and 19 persons were prosecuted for trafficking. Two labor trafficking offenders were convicted in 2013 with sentences of 30 months’ imprisonment, which was a smaller number of convictions than the year before. In four additional cases, five other people were persecuted for trafficking but not found guilty. However, they were convicted on lesser charges. Additionally, the prior convictions of three human trafficking offenders were upheld by two appellate courts. No offenders were convicted for sex trafficking in 2013. The government also encourages victims of human trafficking to assist in the investigation and prosecution of trafficking offenders. In 2013, 12 victims assisted law enforcement in pre-trial investigations, 10 of whom participated in the prosecutions of alleged traffickers.\n\nIllegal immigration is also criminalized in Finland. It is an offence often associated with human trafficking because the persons being trafficked are considered clients of the smugglers or traffickers. The number of persons using fake or illegal travelling documents in border controls was over 200 in the year 2000. Only a few of these cases have resulted in prosecution.\n\nFinland has ratified the Conventions of 1926 which deals with slavery, and the Convention of 1949 which deals with trafficking in human beings and counteracting the exploitation of other people’s prostitution, with their subsequent amendments. The national legislation on human trafficking and prostitution is mostly based on these conventions and their requirements. The whole 25th chapter of Finnish Penal Code deals with crimes on freedoms of persons. However, the only part in Finnish Penal Code that directly addresses human trafficking is § 25:3 and § 25:3a (9.7.2004/650). According to these two sections, both human trafficking and aggravated human trafficking, as well as the attempt of either, are punishable crimes in Finland. The laws on human trafficking came to effect in the Penal Code 1. August 2004. Prior to this, cases of human trafficking were punishable bylaws that dealt with procuring and discrimination at work. If convicted for human trafficking, the offender is prescribed a minimum of four months and a maximum of six years in prison. The penalty scale for aggravated trafficking in human beings is 2 to 10 years in prison. Penalties commensurate with penalties prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. Although the government does not have a specialized anti-trafficking law enforcement unit, it integrated formal anti-trafficking awareness into police and border guard training curricula for new recruits and in-service personnel. The government has also provided anti-trafficking training to its prosecutors for the past four years. The government also distributed leaflets to thousands of visitors at a major annual travel fair warning that child sex tourism is a crime. Finland’s laws provide extraterritorial jurisdiction over child sex tourism offenses perpetrated overseas by Finnish nationals.\n\nThe definition of human trafficking is strict in the Penal Code. \nTo fulfill the criteria for human trafficking it is crucial that the victim has been deceived or that the victim's dependent or insecure position has been taken advantage of when subjecting the person to work as, for example, a prostitute. Trafficking in persons is a crime against the individual.\n\nThe sections below are translated from the Finnish Penal Code.\n\nA person who\n\nA person who oppresses a person younger than 18 years old or recruits, hands over, transports, receives or houses the underage person with an aim mentioned in the first clause should be convicted even if none of the means mentioned in the first clause were used.\n\nAn attempt is also punishable.\n\nThe human trafficking is considered aggravated if\n\nand if the crime is grave as a whole, the offender should be convicted for aggravated human trafficking and sentenced to 2–10 years in prison.\n\nA person who enslaves a victim, transports slaves or sells them, and if the offense if the offense is aggravated when assessed as a whole.\n\nAn attempt is also punishable.\n\nThe Finnish government continued to provide direct shelter, trafficking-specific rehabilitative assistance, and medical care to adult and child victims in addition to its provision of funding for NGO-run shelters. Police and border guard officials used a series of written guidelines on victim referral and treatment developed by the Finnish Immigration Service to proactively identify victims of trafficking; however, one official raised concerns that the threshold for referral to services was too high. During the reporting period, officials referred 13 victims to service providers, raising concerns about the low number of potential victims identified and the effectiveness of victim identification procedures. The government encouraged victims to assist in the investigation and prosecution of trafficking offenders.\n\nUnder the Act on Compensation for Crime Damage, victims of crime could receive government compensation for personal injury, damage to property, or other financial loss caused by a crime. Finnish authorities provided identified trafficking victims with a six-month reflection period, a time for victims to receive immediate care and assistance while they consider whether to assist law enforcement. There were no indications, however, that the reflection period was used extensively. Victims of trafficking wishing to stay longer than six months were eligible to apply for an extended residence permit or asylum as an alternative to deportation. The government granted permanent residence permits to seven victims during the reporting period. The government made some effort to ensure victims were not penalized for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked. The government provided anti-trafficking awareness training for labor inspectors, diplomatic personnel, public health workers, immigration adjudication staff and Finnair flight attendants.\n\nThe Pro-support Centre was established in 1990. It is a support service centre for prostitutes, subordinated to the private Diacone Institution in Helsinki. The main purpose of this cente is to provide health care and social services. In 2002, this centre was the only organisation in Finland that offered support services for prostitutes, whether Finnish or foreign. Most of the centre's activities were concentrated in the areas in close proximity to the capital.\n\nThe centre does not collect or file systematic information about the clients who come and seek help, and its employees work under a secrecy obligation. However, the employees of the support centre have the most long-standing and thorough knowledge of the prostitution situation and its developments in the Helsinki region, and this experience is also available for outside research purposes.\n\nPro-support Centre holds the role of the third sector in very high regard when it comes to anti-human trafficking. The centre carried out a project together with Finland's Slot Machine Association (RAY) in 2007-2009. The goal of the project was to produce new information on human trafficking and other similar phenomena in Finland, as well as to evaluate the existing support network for the victims of human trafficking and their families. Simultaneously many professionals who work closely with human trafficking and related phenomena, were trained to better recognize and support the victims of human trafficking.\n\nMany different kinds of organizations work together in efforts to prevent human trafficking in Finland.\nSome of these organizations are subordinated to the government and its ministries, some to the military and some are third sector organizations.\n\nThe most important bodies working for anti-human trafficking in Finland include the Office of Immigration, Police, National Bureau of Investigation, The Finnish Border Guard, Ministry of Employment and the Economy along with multiple non-governmental organizations such as All Our Children Association, Amnesty International Finland Association, the Refugee Advice Centre and the Pro-support Centre.\n\nNational action plan against trafficking in human beings was submitted to the Government on 24 March 2005, and the Government's response was obtained on 27 September during the same year. The plan covers multiple aspects of the phenomena, including those of providing help to the victims as well as improving the process of convicting suspected human traffickers. The plan also emphasizes raising the level of information available on trafficking as well as the awareness of human trafficking in Finland. Bettering the ability of professionals to recognize the victims of trafficking is also important. The Action Plan explicitly states that the concentrations of the plan are on human rights and on victim-centered approaches, and that the mutual cooperation of all authorities involved in human trafficking is crucial.\n\nThe Ministry of Defense provided Finnish troops who were going to leave for international peacekeeping missions with intensive anti-trafficking training aimed at providing the forces with the ability to identify potential trafficking victims; there were no trafficking-related cases involving Finnish troops or government personnel deployed overseas in 2009.\n\nThe government’s efforts to monitor and scrutinize its anti-trafficking actions reflected a high level of political will to address human trafficking. Recently numerous Finnish political parties such as Vasemmistoliitto (Left Alliance), Vihreä Liitto (The Greens), Suomen Ruotsalainen Kansanpuolue and Suomen Kristillisdemokraatit (Christian Democrats) addressed the issue of human trafficking as well as gender equality in their manifestos for the parliamental election in 2015. The government cooperates with different NGOs and organizations in providing help for the victims of trafficking in Finland. In addition to domestic prevention of human trafficking, Finland does anti-human trafficking work on EU and international levels. For example, the Finnish government supported an anti-trafficking partnership with the Government of Nigeria by providing approximately $1.1 million toward Nigeria’s anti-trafficking agency: Human trafficking was criminalized in Nigeria fairly recently, in 2003. A national operator NAPTIP (National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons) was then established to enforce the new anti-trafficking laws. In addition to criminal investigations, NAPTIP is also responsible for prosecution, the protection and rehabilitation of victims as well as for educating and informing the victims and the people.\n\nThe government has also organized and hosted multiple seminars and conferences that addressed human trafficking and its prevention. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs organized a meeting concerning human trafficking in 2004 together with the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), which is the principal institution of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). The following year Finland hosted NATO's anti-human trafficking seminar.\n\nThe Ministry for Social Affairs and Health started a project in 1998 with goal of prevention of prostitution. This was a part of a five-year programme for \"The prevention of violence against women and prostitution\". The National Research and Development Centre for Welfare and Health (STAKES) is the main organization executing the project. STAKES is subordinated to the ministry for Social Affairs and Health. The project is based on the 1997 Equality between the Genders Programme of the Finnish Government and therefore also on the action plan of the Beijing IV Women’s Equality World Conference. STAKES has also done other research on prostitution, and this project is also utilized to continue that research.\n\nAccording to research conducted by Lehti and Aromaa, \"The purpose of the project is to monitor prostitution at the national and international level, and to compile and produce information about the phenomena of commercial sex. Also, it provides expert support to authorities and also to other agencies, and disseminates information about prostitution and its prevention. The objective is to produce and support general research on prostitution, also to produce action proposals for the prevention of prostitution and the reduction of disadvantages and unacceptable circumstances related to this. Simultaneously, the project attempts to further co-operation between the authorities and civic organisations regarding this phenomenon.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13126764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13126764", "title": "Jacob K. Olupona", "text": "Jacob K. Olupona\n\nJacob K. Olupona is Professor of African Religious Traditions and Chair of the Committee on African studies at the Harvard Divinity School with a joint appointment as Professor of African and African American Studies in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University.\n\nJacob K. Olupona is a scholar of indigenous African religions who came to Harvard after serving as a professor at the University of California, Davis.\n\nHe is working on a study of the religious practices of the estimated one million Africans who have emigrated to the United States over the last 40 years, examining in particular several populations that remain relatively invisible in the American religious landscape: \"reverse missionaries\" who have come to the U.S. to establish churches, African Pentecostals in American congregations, American branches of independent African churches, and indigenous African religious communities in the U.S. His earlier research includes African spirituality and ritual practices, spirit possession, Pentecostalism, Yoruba festivals, animal symbolism, icons, phenomenology, and religious pluralism in Africa and the Americas.\n\nIn his forthcoming book Ile-Ife: The City of 201 Gods, he examines the modern urban mixing of ritual, royalty, gender, class, and power, and how the structure, content, and meaning of religious beliefs and practices permeate daily life.\n\nHe has authored or edited seven other books, including Kingship, Religion, and Rituals in a Nigerian Community: A Phenomenological Study of Ondo Yoruba Festivals, which has been used for ethnographic research among Yoruba-speaking communities.\n\nOlupona has received grants from the Guggenheim Foundation, the American Philosophical Society, the Ford Foundation, the Davis Humanities Institute, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Wenner-Gren Foundation, and the Getty Foundation. He has served on the editorial boards of three journals and as president of the African Association for the Study of Religion. In 2000, Olupona received an honorary doctorate in divinity from the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.\n\nJacob K. Olupona received his BA from the University of Nigeria and his MA and Ph.D. from Boston University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33553513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33553513", "title": "Kabwari language", "text": "Kabwari language\n\nBwari, or Kabwari, is a minor Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "48218524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48218524", "title": "List of Arab rappers", "text": "List of Arab rappers\n\n"}
{"id": "28699244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28699244", "title": "List of Indonesian provinces by Human Development Index", "text": "List of Indonesian provinces by Human Development Index\n\nList of Indonesian provinces by HDI is in order of the HDI of Indonesian provinces.\nThe figures come from the 2017 Indonesia Human Development Report, published by Badan Pusat Statistik of Indonesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "25109034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25109034", "title": "List of lucky symbols", "text": "List of lucky symbols\n\nThis is a list of lucky symbols, signs and charms. Luck is symbolized by a wide array of objects, numbers, symbols, plant and animal life which vary significantly in different cultures globally. The significance of each symbol is rooted in either folklore, mythology, esotericism, religion, tradition, necessity or a combination thereof.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43205291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43205291", "title": "List of people who have expressed views relating to overpopulation as a problem", "text": "List of people who have expressed views relating to overpopulation as a problem\n\nThe people in this list have expressed concerns about human overpopulation.\n\nA\n\nB\n\nC\n\nD\n\nE\n\nF\n\nG\n\nH\n\nI\n\nJ\n\nK\n\nL\n\nM\n\nN\n\nO\n\nP\n\nR\n\nS\n\nT\n\nV\n\nW\n"}
{"id": "20464736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20464736", "title": "Maastrichtian dialect", "text": "Maastrichtian dialect\n\nMaastrichtian ( ) or Maastrichtian Limburgish ( ) is the dialect and variant of Limburgish spoken in the Dutch city of Maastricht alongside the Dutch language (with which it is not mutually intelligible). In terms of speakers, it is the most widespread variant of Limburgish, and it is a tonal one. Like many of the Limburgish dialects spoken in neighbouring Belgian Limburg, Maastrichtian retained much Gallo-Romance (or more accurately, French and Walloon) influences in its vocabulary.\n\nThe French influence can additionally be attributed to the historical importance of French with the cultural elite and educational systems as well as the historical immigration of Walloon labourers to the city. Despite being a specific variant of Limburgish, Maastrichtian remains mutually intelligible with other Limburgish variants, especially those of surrounding municipalities.\n\nWhilst Maastrichtian is still widely spoken, regardless of social level, research has shown that it is suffering from a degree of dialect loss amongst younger generations. That is the case in dwindling of speakers but also in development of the dialect (dialect levelling) towards Standard Dutch (like the loss of local words and grammar).\n\nMaatrichtian being a city dialect, the terminology \"Maastrichtian\" (\"Mestreechs\") is practically limited to the municipal borders, with the exception of some places within the Maastrichtian municipality where the spoken dialects are in fact not Maastrichtian. These exceptions are previously separate villages and/or municipalities that have merged with the municipality of Maastricht namely Amby, Borgharen, Heer and Itteren.\n\nThe social status of Maastrichtian speakers is determined by the type of sociolect spoken by a certain person, with a division between Short Maastrichtian or Standard Maastrichtian (\"Kort Mestreechs\", \"Standaardmestreechs\") and Long/Stretched Maastrichtian (\"Laank Mestreechs\"). Short Maastrichtian is generally considered to be spoken by the upper and middle classes, whilst Long Maastrichtian is considered to be spoken by the working class.\n\nA particular feature of Maastrichtian is that it gives its speakers a certain prestige. Research of the dialect showed that people talking the \"purest\" form of Maastrichtian, i.e. the Short Maastrichtian (\"Kort Mestreechs\") sociolect, were perceived by others to be the well-educated ones.\n\nThe oldest known and preserved text in Maastrichtian dates from the 18th century. This text named \"Sermoen euver de Weurd Inter omnes Linguas nulla Mosa Trajestensi prastantior gehauwe in Mastreeg\" was presumably written for one of the carnival celebrations and incites people to learn Maastrichtian. As from the 19th century there are more written texts in Maastrichtian, again mostly oriented towards these carnival celebrations. Nowadays however, many other sources display written Maastrichtian, including song texts not written for carnival as well as books, poems, street signs etc.\n\nIn 1999, the municipal government recognised a standardised spelling of Maastrichtian made by Pol Brounts and Phil Dumoulin as the official spelling of the dialect.\n\n\n\nIn 2002, the municipal government officially adopted a local anthem (\"Mestreechs Volksleed\") composed of lyrics in Maastrichtian. The theme had originally been written by Alfons Olterdissen (1865–1923) as finishing stanza of the Maastrichtian opera \"Trijn de Begijn\" of 1910.\n\n\nThe phonology of the Maastrichtian dialect, especially with regards to vowels is quite extensive due to the dialect's tonal nature.\n\n\nDiphthongs in Maastrichtian are having closer starting points than the equivalent three in Standard Dutch. The start point of is rounded unlike standard Dutch .\n\n\nMaastrichtian contains many specific words ample or not used in other Limburgish dialects some being creolisations/\"limburgisations\" of Dutch, French and German words while others cannot be directly subscribed to one of these languages.\n\nMaastrichtian vocabulary, as the language family it belongs to suggests, is based on the Germanic languages (apart from the Limburgish language family this also includes varying degrees of influence from both archaic and modern Dutch and German). However, what sets Maastrichtian apart from other variants of Limburgish is its relatively strong influences from French. This is not only because of geographic closeness of a Francophone region (namely Wallonia) to Maastricht but also because of French being the predominant spoken language of the Maastrichtian cultural elite and the higher secondary educational system of the region in the past. Some examples:\n\nSome examples of specific Maastrichtian vocabulary:\n\nSome examples of Maastrichtian expressions:\n\n"}
{"id": "903538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903538", "title": "Maranao language", "text": "Maranao language\n\nMaranao () is an Austronesian language spoken by the Maranao people in the provinces of Lanao del Norte and Lanao del Sur in the Philippines, and in Sabah, Malaysia.\n\nIranun was once considered a dialect.\n\nUnique among other Danao languages, Maranaoan is spoken with a distinct downstep accent, as opposed to stress accent.\n\nMaranao is spoken in the following areas (\"Ethnologue\").\n\n\nMaranaoan was historically written in Arabic letters, which were known as \"Batang Arab\". It is now written with Latin letters. Though there is no officially proclaimed standard orthography, Maranao is more or less written phonetically as influenced by Filipino. The following are the letters used in writing out native words:\n\nA, B, D, E, G, H, I, K, L, M, N, NG, O, P, R, S, T, U, W, Y \n\nIn representing the mid central vowel (or schwa) , different authors have employed various means to represent this sound (e.g. \"E\" or \"U\"). \"Ë\" may also be used as recommend by the Komisyong ng Wikang Filipino's \"Ortograpiyang Pambansa\" of 2013.\n\nIn 1996, McKaughan and Macaraya, in their revised Maranao dictionary, the digraph \"ae\" was introduced and used to represent the supposed presence of the vowel /ɨ/.\n\nDouble vowels are pronounced separately. For example, \"kapaar\" is pronounced as /kapaʔaɾ/.\n\nIn some older orthographies, \"q\" is used for the glottal stop regardless of position, while in others an apostrophe is used. Outside of linguistic literature, the glottal stop, regardless of position, is not marked in contemporary spelling.\n\nThe final /w/ sound in diphthongs and \"W\" were marked with \"-o\" in older orthographies, as in other Philippine languages, but both are nowadays spelled as \"W\". Also, \"i\" was used in older orthographies to transcribe /j/, which is currently spelled as \"Y\".\n\n\"H\" is only used for Malay loanwords, and \"sh\" (pronounced as /ʃ/) is used for Arabic loanwords and names such as \"Ishak\" (Isaac).\n\n\"Di\" or \"j\" are used to transcribe the /d͡ʒ/ sound, such as \"radia/raja\" (from the Sanskrit word for \"king\", \"Rāja\") or the English name \"John\".\n\nBelow is the sound system of Maranao including underlying phonetic features.\n\nAccording to Lobel (2013), Maranao has the following consonants:\n\nAccording to Lobel (2013), [h] only occurs in a select number of Malay loanwords:\n\nConsonants are also pronounced longer if preceded with a schwa . However, this process is not a form of gemination since consonant elongation in Maranao is not distinctive as seen in other Philippine languages such as Ilokano and Ibanag. Some of these are:\n\nSince 2009, it has been proposed that previous studies on the phonology of Maranao had overlooked the presence of \"heavy\" consonants. These four \"heavy\" consonants being / p’ t’ k’ s’/.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33623752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33623752", "title": "Menka language", "text": "Menka language\n\nMenka is a Grassfields language of Cameroon.\n\n"}
{"id": "8020656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8020656", "title": "Miss Earth 2003", "text": "Miss Earth 2003\n\nMiss Earth 2003, the third edition of Miss Earth pageant, was held on November 9, 2003 at the University of the Philippines Theater in Quezon City, Philippines. Fifty-six delegates from all over the globe participated in the event. The pageant was broadcast live via ABS-CBN in the Philippines and to many countries worldwide via Star World, The Filipino Channel and other partner networks. At the conclusion of the final night of the competition, outgoing titleholder Miss Earth 2002, Winfred Omwakwe from Kenya crowned her successor Dania Prince of Honduras.<ref name=\"michigandaily.com/content/lauded-pageant-woman-condemned-afghan-officials\"></ref> Brazil's Pricila Zandona was selected \"Miss Air 2003\" (first runner-up), Costa Rica's Marianela Zeledon Bolanos was chosen \"Miss Water 2003\" (second runner-up), and Poland's Marta Matyjasik was \"Miss Fire 2003\" (third runner-up).<ref name=\"foxnews.com/story/0,2933,102603,00.html\"></ref> The pageant was hosted by Television show host Ariel Ureta. The candidates were initially presented at the poolside of Hotel Intercontinental Manila in Makati City on October 22, 2003.\n\nBeauty for a Cause Award was awarded to Vida Samadzai the first Afghan woman to compete in an international beauty pageant in almost three decades, for helping found a US-based women's charity that seeks to raise awareness of women's rights and education in Afghanistan by “symbolizing the newfound confidence, courage and spirit of today’s women and representing the victory of women’s rights and various social, personal and religious struggles”.<ref name=\"cnn.com/2003/WORLD/asiapcf/central/11/09/afghan.beauty/index.html\"> </ref>\n\n\nFinal Question in Miss Earth 2003: \"At the end of each rainbow, so the saying goes, is a pot of gold. As a woman of the earth, instead of a pot of gold, what else would you rather find at the end of the rainbow?\"\n\nWinning Answer of Miss Earth 2003: \"Honestly, there are things that are much more important than gold. For me personally, the most important is the sentiments of the people. To give love and smile to a human being, to be able to give them a hand when needed, to give help to someone who needs your presence, and also God is always with us which is very important. The first thing I think when I open my eyes is heaven. When we have Him in our hearts and mind, everything is better. And I can see people how they really are inside, not if they have gold or not. For me the rainbow means life, God and happiness.\" - Dania Prince, represented Honduras.<ref name=\"articlearchives.com/fashion-apparel/fashion-designers/396103-1.html\"></ref>\n\nThe following is the list of the nine-member board of judges of Miss Earth 2003:\n\nList of countries and delegates that participated in Miss Earth 2003:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21687391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687391", "title": "Olu’bo language", "text": "Olu’bo language\n\nOlu’bo or Lolubo is a Central Sudanic language spoken by 15.000 Olu'bo people in Southern Sudan\n"}
{"id": "1420276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1420276", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Poland", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Poland\n\nThe following is a list of medals, awards and decorations in use in Poland. Most of them are awarded by the Polish Army, but some of them are civilian decorations that may be worn by the military personnel.\n\nMost of these decorations ceased to be awarded; some were awarded before the World War II only, and some in the People's Republic of Poland only; order of some of them was changed by law.\n\nThe state awards may be awarded only by the President of Poland. The order of precedence was last reformed in 2007. The order of precedence is: 6 orders (\"order\") in specific order of precedence (see table below); other orders in order they were received; 12 crosses (\"krzyż\"), 3 medals (\"medal\") and 6 stars (\"gwiazda\") in specific order of precedence; other crosses and awards in order they were received.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12454092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12454092", "title": "Patriot camps", "text": "Patriot camps\n\nThe Patriot camps () are state-sponsored summer camps for the teenagers of Georgia.\n\nThe Patriot camps were initiated by the president of Georgia Mikhail Saakashvili in 2005. Each year tens of thousands of young Georgians attend summer camps for ten days, with expenses paid by the Georgian government. Participation is voluntary. In 2007 seven patriot camps will operate.\n\nThe declared aim of the project is to raise national pride in young Georgians and to counter social problems of the country. The participants are from poor backgrounds aged 15 to 20. Activities in the camps focus on sporting and cultural events. President Saakashvili, the initiator of the program, himself a former pioneer, rebutted any parallels to Soviet Young Pioneer camps, saying that this is as different as it can get.\n\nThe patriot camps have been criticized for featuring informal military training (e.g., firing AK-47 rifles). Georgia's opposition has also criticized the camps for Saakashvili through them trying to gain political scores among the young people. Each year upon closing of the camps a large meeting is organized in the Palace of Sports, with Saakashvili addressing the Patriots.\n\nOne of the Patriot camps was opened in 2007 at the village of Ganmukhuri close to the cease-fire line with breakaway Abkhazia with the declared purpose of bringing Georgian and Abkhaz teenagers together.\n\nIn July 2007 the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, expressed concern that Georgia's decision to open a Patriot camp at Ganmukhuri could fuel tensions along the Abkhaz-Georgian ceasefire line, with Georgian officials in response accusing Ban Ki-moon of seeking appeasing of Russia. Georgian Foreign Minister Gela Bezhuashvili and newly appointed Conflict Resolution Minister Davit Bakradze responded that the UN should concentrate on \"major issues,\" such as the repatriation of Georgian displaced persons referring to the victims of the ethnic cleansing of Georgians in Abkhazia. \n\nA potentially dangerous incident took place at Ganmukhuri on October 30, 2007 when the patrol of Russian peacekeepers consisting of military personnel and hardware entered Georgian territory and approached the camp, detaining five Georgian policemen who refused the Russians entry. Russian peacekeepers claimed that the officers had been antagonizing and threatening to shoot them. Georgia's Interior Ministry said the detained policemen were severely beaten, and had its forces in the area put on alert. Abkhazia dispatched additional forces to the border posts and put its troops \"on high alert\". President Saakashvili personally arrived in the village and lashed out at Russian peacekeepers for provoking the incident and declared that Sergey Chaban, commander of Russia's peacekeeping forces in the area, is persona non grata in Georgia. The latter denied that beating took place and said that he is subordinate to the Council of the defence ministers of CIS and that he is not going to leave the country without an order. Soon, the Georgian policemen were released and the Russian troops left the area.\n\nIn spite of the documental video presented by the Georgian side, an official Russian version has it that the Russian peacekeepers detained five Georgian policemen only after they attempted to hinder peacekeeper's unit to monitor the area. The Russians claim they were also ready to hand over detained Georgian policemen, but the local Georgian officials refused the deal after receiving instructions from their bosses to wait for President Saakashvili’s arrival. A statement issued later by the ministry said that the incident was a provocation by the Georgian authorities aimed at internal consumption amid wave of anti-governmental protest rallies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13821218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13821218", "title": "Pitcairn Islanders", "text": "Pitcairn Islanders\n\nPitcairn Islanders also referred to as Pitkerners, are the inhabitants or citizens of the Pitcairn Islands. The Pitcairn Islands is a nation, mainly inhabited by Euronesians of British and Tahitian descent.\nThe culture held in common by most Pitcairn Islanders is mainstream Pitcairn culture, a mixture of British and Polynesian culture derived from the traditions of the settlers who landed in 1790. Most of the people today are descended from the HMS \"Bounty\" mutineers of English, Cornish, Manx, Scottish descent and the Tahitian companions, including the few who settled afterwards. As of 2018, there are a total of 50 people inhabiting the island. \n\nThere is also a Pitcairn diaspora particularly in Norfolk Island, New Zealand and mainland Australia. As a result from overcrowding on the island, in 1856 all 194 Pitkerners immigrated to Norfolk Island aboard the \"Morayshire\" (including a baby born en route) but 16 of them returned to Pitcairn on the \"Mary Ann\" in 1858, followed by a further four families in 1864.\n\nPitcairn Island was sighted on 3 July 1767 by the crew of the British sloop , commanded by Captain Philip Carteret. The island was named after Scottish Midshipman Robert Pitcairn, a fifteen-year-old crew member who was the first to sight the island. \n\nThese words, recorded in Carteret’s log, describe the first sighting. Robert Pitcairn was a son of British Marine Major John Pitcairn, who later was killed at the Battle of Bunker Hill in the American Revolution.\n\nIn 1790, nine of the mutineers from the \"Bounty\", along with the native Tahitian men and women who were with them (six men, eleven women and a baby girl), settled on Pitcairn Islands and set fire to the \"Bounty\". The wreck is still visible underwater in Bounty Bay, discovered in 1957 by \"National Geographic\" explorer Luis Marden. Although the settlers survived by farming and fishing, the initial period of settlement was marked by serious tensions among them. Alcoholism, murder, disease and other ills took the lives of most mutineers and Tahitian men. John Adams and Ned Young turned to the scriptures, using the ship's Bible as their guide for a new and peaceful society. Young eventually died of an asthmatic infection. The Polynesians also converted to Christianity (Church of England). They later converted from their original form of Christianity to Seventh-day Adventism, following a successful Adventist mission in the 1890s. After the rediscovery of Pitcairn, John Adams was granted amnesty for his part in the mutiny.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> 1856 Immigration to Norfolk Island left Pitcairn uninhabited.<br>\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> 1859 First group returns from Norfolk Island.<br>\nAs of 2018.\nAs a result of the families who returned to the island starting in 1859 after settling Norfolk Island, most names therefore are descended from those six families. Occasionally a new person would arrive on the island bringing with them a new surname such as the American Samuel Russell Warren born 1830 in Rhode Island, U.S., fathered children with Agnes Christian (daughter of Thursday October Christian II), whose descendants still live on the island today. \nIn the early 20th century a study was taken by American author Harry L. Shapiro on the characteristics of the islanders, based on the analysis and observations, for example - Pitcairners were taller than their parents and had produced a healthy number of children. There were more blue-eyed and light haired people in the mixed-race descendants than in a typical Tahitian population but more with very dark hair than people of ethnic English origin. A similar study was also taken on the Pitcairn diaspora in Norfolk Island.\n\nThe once-strict moral codes, which prohibited dancing, public displays of affection, smoking, and consumption of alcohol, have been relaxed in recent years. Islanders and visitors no longer require a six-month licence to purchase, import, and consume alcohol. There is now one licensed café and bar on the island, and the Government Store sells alcohol and cigarettes.\n\nFishing and swimming are two popular recreational activities. A birthday celebration or the arrival of a ship or yacht will involve the entire Pitcairn community in a public dinner in the Square, Adamstown. Tables are covered in a variety of foods, including fish, meat, chicken, philhi, baked rice, boiled plun (banana), breadfruit, vegetable dishes, an assortment of pies, bread, breadsticks, an array of desserts, pineapple and watermelon.\n\nPublic work ensures the ongoing maintenance of the island's numerous roads and paths. The island has a labour force of over 35 men and women (as of 2011).\n\nThe majority of the resident Pitcairn Islanders are the descendants of the \"Bounty\" mutineers and Tahitians (or other Polynesians). Pitkern is a creole language derived from 18th-century English, with elements of the Tahitian language. It is spoken as a first language by the population and is taught alongside standard English at the island's only school. It is closely related to the creole language Norfuk, spoken on Norfolk Island, because Norfolk was repopulated in the mid-19th century by Pitcairners.\n\nThe entire population is Seventh-day Adventist. A successful Seventh-day Adventist mission in the 1890s was important in shaping Pitcairn society. In recent years, the church has declined, with only about eight islanders worshipping regularly, but most of them still attend church on special occasions. The Sabbath is observed as a day of rest and as a mark of respect for observant Adventists.\n\nThe church was built in 1954 and is run by the Church board and resident pastor, who usually serves a two-year term. The Sabbath School meets at 10 am on Saturday mornings, and is followed by Divine Service an hour later. On Tuesday evenings there is another service in the form of a prayer meeting.\n\nThe 2016 census showed that there were a total of 746 people with Pitcairn ancestry. However, this includes the population claiming pitcairn descent in Norfolk Island.\nThere were 262 people of Pitcairn ancestry for the usually resident population in other states and territories of Australia (notably Queensland and New South Wales).\n\nIn the 2011 Australian census, there were 75 people speaking the Pitkern language (also called Pitcairnese) at home, an increase of 21% from the 2006 census which had 62 people speaking the language.\n\nThe 2016 Australian census included Norfolk Island for the first time. It showed that 20.0% or 484 people claimed Pitcairn ancestry.\n\nAs in previous censuses, the 2011 Census asked a question relating to Pitcairn descent. Though for the first time, the 2011 Norfolk Island Census focuses on the Pitcairn descent of the \"ordinarily resident population\" rather than the \"permanent population\" of previous Censuses. 45.0 percent of the \"permanent population\" are of Pitcairn descent and 38.4 percent of the \"ordinarily resident population\" were of Pitcairn descent. Thus for every two persons of Pitcairn descent, there are three persons of non-Pitcairn descent in the ordinarily resident population on Norfolk Island.\nNorfolk’s Pitcairn descendants are already at least 7th or 8th generation, and those in younger age groups are probably 9th generation and the affinity with their heritage is naturally waning.\n\nIn the 2013 New Zealand census the Pitcairn Islander ethnic group comprised 177 people. 80.7 percent were born in New Zealand with 36 born overseas - 91.7% on Pitcairn Island. Between 2006 and 2013, the population decreased by 13.4 percent. This compares with an increase of 15.5 percent between 2001 and 2006.\nEthnic identity:\n\n"}
{"id": "8030835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8030835", "title": "Pneumatic barrier", "text": "Pneumatic barrier\n\nA pneumatic barrier is a method to contain oil spills. It is also called a bubble curtain. Air bubbling through a perforated pipe causes an upward water flow that slows the spread of oil. It can also be used to stop fish from entering polluted water. A further application of the pneumatic barrier is to decrease the salt-water exchange in navigation locks and prevent salt intrusion in rivers.\nPneumatic barriers are also known as air curtains.\nThe pneumatic barrier is a (non-patented) invention of the Dutch engineer Johan van Veen from around 1940 \n\nA pneumatic barrier is an \"active\" (as opposed to \"passive\") method of waterway oil spill control. (An example of a passive method would be a containment boom.)\n\nThe pneumatic barrier consists of a perforated pipe and a compressed air source. Air escaping from the pipe provides a \"hump\" of rising water and air which contains the oil spill. Anchors to keep the pipe in a particular spot are helpful. In case of a density current due to salinity differences the barrier mixes the salt water, but also slows down the speed of the density current.\n\nAt water-current speeds exceeding one foot per second, the pneumatic barrier no longer functions effectively, limiting deployable sites.\n\nThe release of compressed air in the water adds oxygen to the local environment. This may be particularly useful in areas that have become a dead zone due to eutrophication. \n\nAir curtains may have another application. Dolphin and whale beaching has increased with the rise in ocean temperatures. On Thursday February 12th, 2017, a group of nearly 400 whales beached near Golden Bay on the tip of New Zealand’s South Island, following a similar incident earlier that week. The simplicity of an air curtain system, requiring only air compressors and perforated hoses, could allow for rapid deployment and create aerated zones of oxygenated seawater during a marine emergency.\n\nAir curtains are also used to control the release of smoke particles into the environment. After a natural disaster, or during brush clearing activities, debris is disposed of by incineration in either a ceramic or earth pit containment. Similar to an air curtain to separate indoor air from outdoor air, for instance in restaurants and walk-in refrigerators, a powerful air curtain can defeat the chimney effect of the incineration process to eliminate any smoke from a brush incinerator. The air curtain acts as a lid on the process, and forces the smoke back into the fuel bed for a cleaner burn.\n\nLike all active systems of any type, a mechanical failure can result in total failure of protection.\n\nDevelopment of an air bubble curtain to reduce underwater noise of percussive piling Marine Environmental Research 49(2000)79-93, Elsevier Retrieved 2/16/2017 \n\nBubble Curtains: Can They Dampen Offshore Energy Sound for Whales? National Geographic Retrieved 2/16/2017\n\nYou Tube: How an Air Curtain Works by Berner International Retrieved 2/16/2017\n"}
{"id": "16405099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16405099", "title": "Prince du sang", "text": "Prince du sang\n\nA prince du sang (, Prince of the Blood) is a person legitimately descended in dynastic line from any of a realm's hereditary monarchs. Historically, the term has been used to refer to men and women descended in the male line from a sovereign, although as absolute primogeniture has become more common in monarchies, those with succession rights through female descent are more likely than in the past to be accorded the princely title (e.g., Belgian Royal Family).\n\nIn some European kingdoms, especially France, this appellation was a specific rank in its own right, of a more restricted use than other titles.\n\nUnder the House of Capet, the monarchy was feudal, and the younger sons and grandsons of kings did not have rights or precedence based on their royal descent. Feudal titles determined rank. Under Philip Augustus, the Duke of Burgundy, a peer of France, could be reckoned to be mightier than the Count of Dreux, a \"baron of the second rank\", even though the latter is a paternal cousin of the king, while the former was only a distant agnate. In the feudal era, the agnates of the king held no special status. This was because agnatic primogeniture had not yet received its sanction as the law governing the succession to the French throne.\n\nFollowing the Valois succession, the agnates of the king, being \"capable of the crown\", rose in prominence. New peerages were created for the king's agnates, and for a long time this continued to be so, before the peerage was extended to non-royalty. Over time, the dignity of a peer, which is feudal in nature, and the dignity of a prince of the blood, which is dynastic in nature, clashed. Non-royal peers and princes of the blood who were peers constantly disputed for higher precedence than the other. As the royal line contracted, each prince of the blood gained greater prominence. Finally, in 1576, Henry III of France issued an edict, as a counterpoise to the growing power of the House of Guise, which made the princes of the blood supreme over the peerage, and amongst themselves, the closer in the line of succession would outrank the more distant, without regard to the actual title that they held.\n\nIn France, the rank of \"prince du sang\" was the highest held at court after the immediate family of the king during the \"ancien régime\" and the Bourbon Restoration. The rank of \"prince du sang\" or \"princesse du sang\" was restricted to legitimate agnates of the Capetian dynasty who were not members of the immediate family of the king. Originating in the 14th century, male \"princes du sang\" came to be recognized as entitled to seats on the \"Conseil du Roi\" and the \"Parlement de Paris\", to precedence above all peers and to precedence among each other according to their respective places in the order of succession.\n\nDuring the last century of the reign of the House of Valois, when religious strife brought forth rivals for the throne, \"prince du sang\" became restricted in use to refer to dynasts who were distant members of the Royal Family (i.e., those who were not children or grandchildren in the male line of a French king and, as such, entitled to specific, higher rank of their own as \"enfants\" and \"petits-enfants de France\").\n\nIn theory, the princes of the blood included all members of the Capetian dynasty. In practice, only the agnatic descendants of Saint Louis IX, such as the Valois and the Bourbons, were acknowledged as \"princes du sang\". France's kings, for instance, refused to recognize the Courtenay Capetians as princes of the blood. The Courtenays descended in legitimate male-line from King Louis VI, but had become impoverished, minor nobles over the centuries. Their repeated petitions for recognition to the Bourbon rulers were in vain. When the Treaty of Montmartre was concluded in 1662, declaring the House of Lorraine to be heirs to the French throne in the event of extinction of the Bourbons, the Courtenays protested, requesting substitution of the phrase \"the royal house issued in legitimate male line from the kings of France\" to no avail. In 1715 Louis-Charles de Courtenay, his son Charles-Roger and his brother Roger were once again rebuffed in their attempt to seek recognition of their status. Roger, \"abbé\" de Courtenay, was the last male of the family, dying on 5 May 1733, and his sister Hélène de Courtenay, marquise de Bauffremont (1689–20 June 1768), obtained no redress when she appealed to the king in 1737 after the Parlement of Paris ordered the term \"princesse du sang royal de France\" deleted from court documents.\n\nEven a cadet branch of the Bourbon line, the Bourbon-Carencys, who were most distantly related to the Dukes of Bourbon, were denied princely rank and excluded from the \"Conseil du Roi\" until their extinction in 1530. They descended from Jean, seigneur de Carency (1378–1457), the youngest son of Jean I de Bourbon, Count of La Marche.\n\nSince 1733, all legitimate male Capetians were of the House of Bourbon, of the Vendôme branch, descended from Charles, Duke of Vendôme. Charles' eldest son Antoine, King of Navarre, was the ancestor of the royal dynasties of France and Spain, and of the House of Orléans, while his youngest son Louis, Prince of Condé (1530–1569), was the ancestor of the House of Condé. A cadet branch of the Condés was the House of Conti, who in male line descended of Henri, Prince of Condé (1588–1646).\n\nIn an edict of July 1714, Louis XIV declared his legitimized sons, the Duke of Maine and Count of Toulouse, to be \"princes du sang\" and accorded them rights of succession to the French throne following all other \"princes du sang\". Though the \"Parlement de Paris\" refused to register the decree, the king exercised his right to compel registration by conducting a \"lit de justice\". The edict was revoked and annulled on 18 August 1715 by the \"Parlement\" on the authority of the regent after the king's death. As a chancellor of Louis XIV had warned, a king could only make princes of the blood through his queen.\n\nThose who held this rank were usually styled by their main ducal peerage, but sometimes other titles were used, indicating a more precise status than \"prince du sang\".\n\nThe most senior princes used specific styles such as \"monsieur le prince\" or \"monsieur le duc\", whereas the junior princes used the style \"monseigneur\" followed by their noble title, such as \"monseigneur le duc de Montpensier\". The style Serene Highness (\"altesse sérénissime\") was used in writing only.\n\nThis was the style of the First Prince of the Blood (), which normally belonged to the most senior (by primogeniture) male member of the royal dynasty who is neither a \"fils de France\" (\"son of France\", i.e. of the King or the Dauphin\") nor a \"petit-fils de France\" (\"grandson of France\", son of a \"fils de France\"). In practice, it was not always clear who was entitled to the rank, and it often took a specific act of the king to make the determination.\n\nThe rank carried with it various privileges, including the right to a household paid out of state revenues. The rank was held for life: the birth of a new, more senior prince who qualified for the position did not deprive the current holder of his use of the style. The Princes of Condé used the style of \"Monsieur le Prince\" for over a century (1589–1709). The right to use the style passed to the House of Orléans in 1709; however, they seldom if ever used it. The title should theoretically have passed in 1747 to Prince Philip, Duke of Calabria, the first great-grandson of the \"Grand Dauphin\" that was neither a \"fils de France\" nor a \"petit-fils de France\"; however, Louis XV left the title to the House of Orléans rather than to the Spanish branch of the Bourbons, which had renounced its right to succeed to the French throne by the Treaty of Utrecht. This meant that Louis Philippe, duke of Orleans in the late 18th century, was the First Prince of the Blood immediately before the French Revolution, entitling him to sit on various bodies, such as the 1787 Assembly of Notables, which he used as a platform to advocate liberal reforms.\n\nFirst Princes of the Blood, 1465–1830\n\nThis style was held by the wife of \"Monsieur le Prince\". The duchesses/princesses that were entitled to use it were:\n\nThis style was used for the eldest son of the \"Prince de Condé\". Originally, the eldest son was given the title of \"Duc d'Enghien\", but that changed in 1709 when the Condés lost the rank of \"premier prince\". After that, the eldest son was often given the courtesy title of \"Duc de Bourbon\", which had been granted to \"le Grand Condé\", and his eldest son was then given the title of \"duc d'Enghien\".\n\nThis style was used for the wife of \"Monsieur le Duc\". The most famous holder of this honorific was:\n\nOthers included:\n\nThis address was used by the head of the most junior branch of the House of Bourbon, the comte de Soissons. The comtes de Soissons, like the Princes of Conti, descended from the Princes of Condé. The line started in 1566 when the Soissons title was given to Charles de Bourbon, the second son of Louis I de Bourbon, prince de Condé, the first \"Prince of Condé\".\n\nThe first Prince had three sons:\n\nThe Soissons title was acquired by the first Prince of Condé in 1557 and was held by his descendants for two more generations:\n\nThe 2nd Count of Soissons died without an heir, so the Soissons title passed to his younger sister, Marie de Bourbon, the wife of Thomas Francis, Prince of Carignano, a member of the House of Savoy. She became known as \"Madame la comtesse de Soissons\". On her death, the title passed first to her second son, Prince Joseph-Emmanuel of Savoy-Carignan (1631–1656), and then to her third son, Prince Eugène-François of Savoy-Carignan.\n\nHe married Olympia Mancini, niece of Cardinal Mazarin. She was known as \"Madame la Comtesse de Soissons\" like her mother-in-law. On his death, the title went to his eldest son, Prince Louis-Thomas, who was the older brother of the famous Austrian general, Prince Eugene of Savoy. The Soissons title became extinct upon the death of Prince Eugène-Jean of Savoy-Carignan in 1734.\n\nThis style was used by the wife of \"Monsieur le Comte\". The best example of this is Olympia Mancini.\n\nIn order to tell the wives of the various Princes of Conti apart after their deaths, the widows were given the name of \"Douairière\" (or dowager) and a number corresponding to when they lost their husband. After being widowed their full style would be \"Madame la Princesse de Conti 'number' Douairière\". Between 1727 and 1732, there were three widowed Princesses de Conti. They were:\n\nLegitimised children of the King of France, and of other males of his dynasty, took surnames according to the branch of the House of Capet to which their father belonged, e.g. Louis-Auguste de Bourbon, duc du Maine, was the elder son of Louis XIV by his mistress, Mme de Montespan. After the legitimisation occurred, the child was given a title. Males were given titles from their father's lands and estates and females were given the style of \"Mademoiselle de X\". Examples of this are (children of Louis XIV and Mme de Montespan):\n\nAlso the child would be referred to as \"Légitimé de Bourbon\"; such as Marie Anne \"légitimée de Bourbon\", \"mademoiselle de Blois\" daughter of Louis XIV and Louise de La Vallière. Her full brother was Louis de Bourbon, later given the title of \"comte de Vermandois\".\n\nThe branch of the \"ducs de Longueville\", extinct in 1672 (1694), bore the surname \"d'Orléans\", as legitimised descendants of Jean, bâtard d'Orléans, the natural son of a Valois prince who held the appanage of Orléans before the Bourbons did. Non-legitimised natural children of royalty took whatever surname the king permitted, which might or might not be that of the dynasty.\n\nChildren born out of wedlock to a French king or prince were never recognised as \"fils de France\". However, if legitimised, the king might raise them to a rank just below or even equivalent to that of a \"prince du sang\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14462168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14462168", "title": "Prostitution in Ghana", "text": "Prostitution in Ghana\n\nProstitution in Ghana is illegal but widespread, so much so that many Ghanaians are unaware that it is prohibited. There are growing sex tourism, child prostitution and human trafficking. High rates of unemployment and poverty in Ghana are believed to be causing a growth in the sex industry. Unemployment is a reason teenage workers engage in sex work. A high percentage of sex workers are vulnerable to HIV.\n\nSome prostitutes in Ghana are campaigning for the sex trade to be legalised, and discussions have taken place.\n\nGhana's former Prime Minister, Dr Kofi Abrefa Busia, an Oxford sociologist, wrote a thesis on prostitution “Report on a social survey of Sekondi-Takoradi.“\n\nProstitutes in Ghana are known locally as \"ashawo\", \"toutou\" (derived from 'two shillings, two pence'; a prostitute who doesn't charge much) or \"maame-i-dey\".\nThere are brothels in most Ghana towns, cities and ports. Often these are in makeshift shacks or old warehouses, and some are attached to bars. Prostitutes not working in the brothels are known as either \"seaters\" or \"roamers\". The seaters work from home, sitting in the doorway and inviting customers in. When they are with a customer they lower a curtain in front of the door. Seaters generally work in one area of town, creating a small red-light district. Generally they are older women or widows.\n\nRoamers tend to be younger women and work on the streets, bars and hotels. \"Pilots\", often taxi-drivers, work as intermediaries between the women and clients in hotels. They usually get a fee from both parties. They also help the women get into the hotels as most have a no single women rule. Hotel staff may also take bribes to let the women in.\n\nThe women face occasional violence from the customers, or more commonly refusal to pay. Hotel staff may exploit them.\n\nSince oil production started in 2011, prostitution in the port of Takoradi has risen sharply due to the influx of oil workers.\n\nUNAIDS estimate there are 52,000 prostitutes in the country.\n\nThe prevalence of male prostitution in Ghana has slowly risen over the years but not much is said about it because of the form it takes. Male prostitution is predominant in the following areas such as Tesano, Adabraka, Osu, Accra and Paloma in Accra. Male prostitutes go undercover as women because homosexuality is illegal in Ghana as per the constitution. The activities of these prostitutes are most commonly patronized by men in the elite class who have enough resources to be discreet about their sexual activities. This leads to a relevant increase in the price of engaging homosexual prostitutes given the limited supply of these prostitutes.\n\nLaw enforcement is variable, and there are also occasional crack-downs on prostitutes. Prostitutes are often abused by law enforcement officers. In a survey across 26 town and cities, a third of the prostitutes told of problems with the police. These included intimidation, extortion, threats and raids. Many reported that they had had to have sex with the officers to avoid prosecution.\n\nIn a 2007 survey of 251 law enforcement agents, 15% admitted they had demanded sex in return for not prosecuting arrested prostitutes.\n\nPolice and politicians are sometimes bribed or blackmailed to turn a blind eye.\n\nGhana has established itself as a destination for sex tourism from western tourists. This kind of tourism has attracted paedophiles due to the country's lax child protection laws and poor law enforcement. Child prostitution is increasing is a problem with girls being vulnerable and boys to a lesser extent.\n\nVietnamese prostitutes have been found in Ghana in the coastal cities of Tema and Takoradi. Ghanaian investigative journalist Anas Aremeyaw Anas discovered that the Vietnamese women had been trafficked into Ghana for the purposes of prostitution. The Vietnamese prostitutes had been recruited by a Vietnamese woman named Hanh in July 2013. The price paid by their clients in Ghana was per hour. The prostitutes worked from a brothel in the Jang Mi Guest House in Takoradi. The women's ages ranged from 25 to 35.\n\nWomen and girls from China, Nigeria, Côte d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso are also trafficked into Ghana for prostitution.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Ghana as a 'Tier 2' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2099616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2099616", "title": "Public holidays in Estonia", "text": "Public holidays in Estonia\n\nAll official holidays in Estonia are established by acts of Parliament.\n\nThe following are holidays that mean days off:\nThe following holidays do not give a day off:\n"}
{"id": "46585571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46585571", "title": "Putian dialect", "text": "Putian dialect\n\nPutian dialect (Pu-Xian Min: / ) is a dialect of Pu-Xian Min Chinese spoken in urban area of Putian, which is a prefecture-level city in the southeast coast of Fujian province.\n\nPutian dialect has 15 initials, 40 rimes and 7 tones.\n\nPutian dialect has extremely extensive tone sandhi rules: in an utterance, only the last syllable pronounced is not affected by the rules.\n\nThe two-syllable tonal sandhi rules are shown in the table below (the rows give the first syllable's original citation tone, while the columns give the citation tone of the second syllable):\n"}
{"id": "37344055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37344055", "title": "Right on Crime", "text": "Right on Crime\n\nRight on Crime is a U.S. criminal justice reform initiative that aims to gain support for criminal justice reforms within the American conservative movement by sharing research and policy ideas, mobilizing conservative leaders, and by raising public awareness. Right On Crime reforms are focused on \"reducing crime, lowering costs and restoring victims.\" The initiative primarily focuses on eight issues: over-criminalization, juvenile justice, substance abuse, adult probation, parole and re-entry, law enforcement, prisons and victims. Right on Crime is a project of the Center for Effective Justice at the Texas Public Policy Foundation, a conservative think tank, and Prison Fellowship.\n\nThe Right on Crime initiative began its public affairs campaign in December 2010, in Washington, D.C. According to a January 2011 article in the \"Washington Post\" by former U.S. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and former California Speaker of the House Pat Nolan, \"The Right on Crime Campaign represents a seismic shift in the legislative landscape. And it opens the way for a common-sense left-right agreement on an issue that has kept the parties apart for decades.\"\n\"The New York Times\"' Charlie Savage noted the conservative movement's growing support for Right on Crime in a \"Times\" editorial in October 2011, writing \"The [corrections overhaul] movement has attracted the support of several prominent conservatives, including Edwin R. Meese III, the attorney general during the Reagan administration. He is part of a campaign, called 'Right on Crime,' which was begun last December to lend weight to what it calls the 'conservative case for reform.'\"\n\nBeginning in 2011, Right on Crime expanded its campaign into individual states, including Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma and Florida. The \"Los Angeles Times\" explained the initiative is \"setting the pace in states such as Texas,\" in a November 2011 editorial.\n\nIn 2014, the BBC reported that in Texas, rather than building new prisons, Right on Crime has led to the closure of three prisons.\n\nRight On Crime's \"Statement of Principles\" has been signed by the following individuals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57864374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57864374", "title": "SLĀV", "text": "SLĀV\n\nSLĀV is a Canadian theatre production. It was created by Béatrice Bonifassi, with Robert Lepage as stage director. The pair launched the show on June 26, 2018, during the Montreal International Jazz Festival. \n\n\"SLĀV\", billed as \"a theatrical odyssey based on slave songs\", was met with growing controversy, with protesters accusing it of cultural appropriation and cultural insensitivity. Musician Moses Sumney cancelled his performance at the festival in protest, saying: \n\nThe Jazz Festival administrators, in the face of public pressure and the threat of other artists withdrawing, cancelled the remaining performances, all of which had sold out. \"Since the beginning of SLĀV performances, the festival team has been shaken and strongly affected by all the comments received,\" \"L'Équipe Spectra\", which produces the festival, said in a statement to the \"Montreal Gazette\". \"We would like to apologize to those who were hurt. It was not our intention at all.\" They gave Bonifassi's decision and the Festival's concerns for public safety as their reasons for cancellation.\n\n"}
{"id": "47182324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47182324", "title": "Swanson, Nolan and Pelham Teacher and Parent Rating Scale", "text": "Swanson, Nolan and Pelham Teacher and Parent Rating Scale\n\nThe Swanson, Nolan and Pelham Teacher and Parent Rating Scale (SNAP), developed by James Swanson, Edith Nolan and William Pelham, is a 90-question self-report inventory designed to measure attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) symptoms in children and young adults.\n\nEach question measures the frequency of a variety of symptoms or behaviors, in which the respondent indicates whether the behavior occurs \"not at all\", \"just a little\", \"quite a bit\", or \"very much\". The questionnaire takes about 10 minutes to complete and is designed for use with children and young adults ages 6–18. The questionnaire is currently in its 4th version, and its scores have shown good reliability and validity across multiple different study samples.\n\nScoring the SNAP-IV is based on a 0-3 scale, with each question being scored as follows based on participant response:\n\nThe questions measure different domains of ADHD and ODD. The item breakdown is as follows:\n\nSubscale scores add all scores on the items in the subset and divided by the total number of items in the subset. Subscale score cutoffs for the disorders are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16083285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16083285", "title": "Tamki language", "text": "Tamki language\n\nTamki (also known as Temki) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in central Chad.\n\nDakouli, Padeu, Antje Maass, and David Toomey. 1996. Rapid appraisal of the Saba language of the Guera, Chad. N’Djamena: Association SIL. Manuscript.\n"}
{"id": "50001447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50001447", "title": "Tanomoshiko", "text": "Tanomoshiko\n\nTanomoshiko (also spelt Tanomoshi-ko or Tanomosiko) () (\"reliable group\") is a variety of rotating savings and credit association (ROSCA) found in Japan. Historically they played a major role in economic life in Japan and among the Japanese diaspora, and still survive on an informal basis in some parts of the country.\n\n\"Tanomoshi\" or \"Tanomoshiko\" (頼母子講) has also been called \"mujin\" (無尽) or \"moai\" (模合) in Japan. The name may be derived from \"tanomu\" meaning begging, or from \"tayori ni naru mono\" meaning reliance.\n\n\"Tanomoshi\", denoting a locally organized social finance scheme, has existed in Japan at least since the middle Kamakura period (1185–1333). The principle was that each member would contribute a sum at regular intervals and would receive a single payment when their turn came round; it required mutual trust among those involved. The institution facilitated personal savings, investment in property and enterprise, insurance, personal loans and assistance of poorer people. By the Tokugawa period (1603–1868) \"tanomoshi\" was widespread. During the later 19th century under the Meiji, commercial banks developed, but as the banks were reluctant to offer small-scale and personal banking services they did not altogether supersede \"tanomoshi\", which were incorporated into mutually financed \"mujin\" companies in 1915. Neither was \"tanomoshi\" fully replaced by state social security when it was implemented in the early 20th century. The system also operated among Japanese immigrants to the United States and Brazil, helping them in establishing new businesses there. Indeed while it diminished in Japan itself it remained of great importance to overseas Japanese communities.\n\nThe institution went into decline after World War II, with the further growth of commercial banks and social security and the loosening of community bonds, but still exists in some parts of Japan. During the 1970s there were estimated to be 20–30 \"tanomoshi\" groups involving economically better-off members of \"Buraku\" communities.\n\n\"Tanomoshi\" still functions in certain areas, especially Kyushu and Okinawa. For example, in Okinawa prefecture, \"tanomoshi\" is active under the name of \"moai\", and a local currency called Moai Cho has been sold in a stationery store (e.g., Editorial Team for Encyclopedia to Know Okinawa, 2000; Shimokawa, 2006). In Aizu region of Fukushima prefecture, \"tanomoshi\" called \"mujin\" has supported savings for leisure mainly in restaurants once a month (e.g., Kimura, 2001). However, in general, it is considered that traditional financial services based on mutual help and solidarity is not necessary anymore. Instead, consumer loans emerged as a new way to borrow money.\n\nMost \"tanomoshiko\" are organized within a workplace or among friends. The members may use the funds built up to finance a trip or a banquet. It is most used by members of social minorities who are less prone to borrow money from financial institutions. The institution has little or no legal status.\n"}
{"id": "34973832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34973832", "title": "Thadou people", "text": "Thadou people\n\nThe Thadou (\"Thadou/Thado te\") are an ethnic group inhabiting in Northeast India, Chin state and Sagaing Division in Burma and eastern Bangladesh. Thadou is a language of the Tibeto-Burman family. Thadou is spoken in the different parts of North East India and adjacent portions of Burma and Bangladesh. It was the second language after Meiteilon (Manipuri) in the Manipur state during British Colonial Period. In Manipur, the Thadous are mostly found in Churachandpur district, Senapati district, Ukhrul district, South-Western Hills and Sadar Hills, Chandel district and Jiribam. They are the largest Tribe in Manipur according to Manipur census 2011. Thadous also live in Mizoram, Nagaland and Assam, etc.\n\nA great majority of the Thadou people are Christians. Christianity among the Thadous can be traced back to an Anglican named William Pettigrew who worked in Manipur as a missionary from 1894. The 100th anniversary of the Thadou people embracing Christianity was held at Motbung, Sadar Hills, Manipur India on 13 December 2008 under the aegis of the Thadou Baptist Association. Some 10% of the Thadou populace around the world are following Judaism as they are believed to be descendants of Manasseh, one of the 12 tribes of Israel. Some 5000 of Thadou people are now settled in Israel.\n\nThe Thadou people believed that Chongthu, a great Chief of Thadou, emerged out from a cave called \"Chhinlung or Shinlung or Khul\" the location of which was believed to be somewhere in Central China, whereas others claimed it to be in Tibet. (Ginzatuang 1973:5) Mc. Culloch (1857:55). Those ancestors emerging from the cave include Chongthu/Songthu, Khupngam, Vangalpa and some clansmen, leaving behind Noimangpa, Chongja and others of the group.\n\nWilliam Shaw's (1929) description about the origin of Thadou is recorded from collected oral traditionals. According to the Thadou narrative recorded by Shaw (1929), Noimangpa was the chief of subterranean region. Chongthu, a relative of Noimangpa, while hunting in the jungle with his dog, discovered a large cave. Chongthu, rejoiced at this discovery, gave up his hunting and went back to his village. He conjured up ideas of forming his own village on the earth. Meanwhile, Noimangpa the chief of the underworld was performing the ‘chon’ festival, in which everyone including chongja, the elder brother of Chongthu, Noimangpa’s son Chonkim participated. During this feast Chongthu started waving his sword so vigorously that he injured some of the people present, at which all were annoyed. This action of Chongthu was premeditated so that he can find an excuse to go to the upper world to form a village of his own. When Noimangpa came to know this he wanted Chongthu dead. Chongthu on hearing Noimangpa’s wrath, prepared to leave for the uninhabited earth, ‘khul’, as spoken of by the Thadous. So, Chongja and Chongthu along with the cavemen feasted before their departure. On their journey to the upper crust of the earth there was a great darkness, which lasted for seven days and seven nights, called “Thimzin” by the Thadou’s. They found a stone blocking their passage out and after making many attempts Chongja and party gave up and returned to Noimangpa and reported the result’. Pi Nemneh, wife of Songja, cursed Chongthu and party for leaving them at doom in ‘Khul’. It is also believed that Chongja, Noimangpa and other clansmen who were left behind are assimilated with the Chinese and Japanese people.\n\nThe Kuki Rebellion (1917–19) was one of the important uprisings against the British imperialism which went on par with the Indian National Movement for Freedom. This movement was known by different names. The Thadous called it \"Thadou gal\". The Meiteis called it \"Khongjai Laal\"(Khongjai war). The Zous called it Zougal . However, in the official records of Manipur it was known as Kuki Rebellion 1917–1919. It commenced from 17 March 1917 and concluded on 20 May 1919\n\nAs a mark of protest against the British and to stop further recruitment of the Thadous and its cognate tribes in the non-combatant force at the battlefront in France in the First World War as per the appeal received from the Secretary of State for India, London, in his telegram dated 28 January 1917, the Thadous in Manipur openly revolted against the British in the month of December 1917. The Chief of Aisan, Chengjapao Doungel, who was the \"Piba\" or head of the Thadous, sent orders to all the leading Thadou chiefs to resist the British with force, if necessary. A very important meeting was held at Jampi Village. The chiefs who attended the meeting were:\n\n\nThe Thadous chiefs appointed Khupkhotintong Haokip as Field Commander of the war. Khotinthang Sitlhou (Kilkhong), the Chief of Jampi killed one Mithun to entertain the chiefs and \"Sajam\" was distributed to all the chiefs. Thus, a powerful conspiracy of the Thadou chiefs was established. And the Singson chief cut off the tail of a mithun as a mark of declaration of war against the British government on behalf of his clan. In Manipur, the rebellion spread like wild-fire, particularly in the Thadou inhabited areas – Jampi, Dulen, Sangnao, Khauchangbung and Laijang in the west; Chasat and Maokot in the east; Mombi and Lonza in the south-east and Henglep and Loikhai/Ukha in the southwest.\n\nAfter many months of aggressive fight between the tenacious Thadou warriors and the mighty British force the Thadou Rebellion finally came to an end on 20 May 1919, with the subjugation of the Thadou by the British Rulers. The colonial authorities recorded the war as 'Kuki Rebellion\" however, the Thadou and its cognate tribes called it Thadou gal. Sir Nicholar Beatson Bell, the former Chief Commissioner of Assam, also said that the Anglo-Kuki War, 1917–19 was confined entirely to the Thadous.\n\nThadou has been recognised as Scheduled Tribe in India since 1956. The followings covered under the Amended Vide Govt. of India Ministry of Law Notification Order No. S.R.O. 2477A, dated 29 October 1956, New Delhi, India.\n\nThadou subgroups (clans) are as follows.\nThere are four forms of marriages among the Thadou: \"chongmou, sahapsat, jol-lhah','kijam mang\". The latter two, sahapsat, jol-lhah', are non-ceremonial betrothal forms akin to elopement. The first of these forms involves the following elements.\n\n\nThe 'sahapsat' marriage form contains only the marital negotiations between families. The \"jol-lhah\" marriage is resorted to in the case of a pregnancy resulting from premarital relationships. In this case, a bride-price is usually agreed upon before the cohabitation process, which begins immediately when the pregnancy is discovered. The \"kijam mang\" is a marital arrangement that results from the union of two parties Without the consent of the parents of either bride, groom, or both by eloping. The bride-price is settled at some point after the union takes place. Post-marital residence is patrilocal . Inheritance is exclusively through the male line, i.e., eldest son. Thadou women are the chief agents of socialisation among the Thadou society. Children are permitted a great degree of independence once they learn to walk. Little structured education is provided by the parents, thereby leaving the Thadou child to learn through experiential means.\n\nDr. G.C. Crozier along with his wife Mrs M.B. Crozier and Pu Ngulhao Thomsong worked in full co-operation to translate the Bible especially in Thadou after obtaining permission from the British and Foreign Bible Society. Pu Ngulhao earlier works included, 1) Pathen La- 1922 2) Thukidong leh Kidonbut – 1924 3)Pathen Thu – 1925 4) John Sut Kipana Thupha- 1925 5) Lung Phatvet- 1930, 6) Rome Mite Henga Paul Lekha Thot – 1933.\n\nThe first edition of \"Lekha bul:Thadou Kuki first primer\" was written by Pu Ngulhao Thomsong in 1927\n\nPu Longkhobel Kilong (1922) and was another native scholar of this period.\n\n"}
{"id": "16243248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16243248", "title": "Tokitsukaze stable hazing scandal", "text": "Tokitsukaze stable hazing scandal\n\nThe Tokitsukaze stable hazing scandal occurred in Japan on June 26, 2007, when , a seventeen-year-old junior sumo wrestler who fought under the \"shikona\" of Tokitaizan, collapsed and died after a training session at Tokitsukaze stable's lodgings in Inuyama, Aichi Prefecture, Japan. It emerged that he was beaten with a beer bottle and a metal baseball bat at the direction of his trainer. Saito's cause of death had been reported as heart failure, but his father insisted on an autopsy, which revealed the abuse.\n\nSaito's stable master, Jun'ichi Yamamoto, admitted to beating the 17-year-old novice, who had only been in sumo for three months, and ordering other sumo wrestlers to beat him, due to Saito's \"vague attitude\" towards the sport. It was also reported that Saito had run away from the stable on a number of occasions. Yamamoto was expelled by the Japan Sumo Association. Yamamoto and three wrestlers from the stable were arrested in February 2008 and were charged with manslaughter. In May 2009 Yamamoto was sentenced to six years in prison. The incident brought substantial political pressure to the governance of the sport in Japan.\n\nPartly as a result of the Saito case, the Diet of Japan drafted a law promoting cause-of-death investigations which was enacted in 2012. A separate law in 2013 gave discretion to local police chiefs to allow autopsies even in cases where there were apparently few signs of foul play.\n\n"}
{"id": "49218881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49218881", "title": "Unsung: A History of Women in American Music", "text": "Unsung: A History of Women in American Music\n\nUnsung: A History of Women in American Music is a non-fiction book written by Christina Ammer about the subject of women in music and was first published in 1980 with a second edition published in 2001. The book covers approximately 200 years of American women's involvement in music. \"Unsung\" has become a \"standard text\" for the subject of American women in music.\n\n\"Unsung\" covers many aspects of women in music with the exception of singers, due to the author's assertion that they do not experience the same level of gender discrimination as other endeavors women pursue in music, such as conducting or composing. \"Unsung\" discusses this sexism that many women face during their musical careers, especially in the world of classical music and academia.\n\nAmmer wrote the first edition of \"Unsung\" because there was a lack of material about women in music at the time. When \"Unsung\" was first published in 1980 it was considered \"a pioneering volume at a time when women in music was a fledgling area located at the margins of musicology,\" according to \"Music & Letters\". Not only did the first edition of \"Unsung\" bring attention to women's roles in music, but also helped music from the United States gain \"scholarly legitimacy.\" \"Library Journal\" praised the first addition for its accessible prose and for the information about living composers \"available nowhere else.\"\n\nThe second edition contains much of the same work as the original, with the additions of women's contributions to jazz and popular music. Other changes include the additions of women involved in electronic music, music for film, performance art, and \"international fusion.\"\n\n\"Library Journal\" felt that the title was somewhat negative, saying that \"many of these fine musicians have been widely acclaimed.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31681173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31681173", "title": "Women in Indonesia", "text": "Women in Indonesia\n\nThe roles of women in Indonesia today are being affected by many factors, including increased modernisation, globalisation, improved education and advances in technology. Many Indonesian women choose to reside in cities instead of staying in townships to perform agricultural work because of personal, professional, and family-related necessities, and economic requirements. These women are moving away from the traditional dictates of Indonesian culture, wherein women act simply and solely as wives and mothers. At present, the women of Indonesia are also venturing actively into the realm of national development, and working as active members of organisations that focus and act on women's issues and concerns.\n\nIn Indonesian society, women performed vital roles both within and outside the family. In rural native society, certain positions, such as \"dukun beranak\" (traditional midwife), traditional healer, ritualist, and shaman, are often held by women. Despite their roles seeming to being reduced, if not rather confined, after the adoption of somewhat patriarchal cultures of Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, and Christianity, women still hold important positions, especially within families.\n\nIn Balinese society, women traditionally play important roles, especially concerning family and economic life. Despite traditional values that hold Balinese women responsible for fostering balance and harmony within families and producing high-quality offspring, in a fast changing society, their economic role has grown. It is common for Balinese women to pursue economic activities outside of their household; thus, Balinese traditional marketplaces are filled with women running businesses.\n\nThe Minangkabaus are known as one of the few traditional societies that apply matriarchal and matrilineal culture, where property and family names are inherited from mother to daughter, and husbands are considered as \"guests\" in their wives' household. The Minangkabau culture also recognizes a prominent historic female figure, Bundo Kanduang, the matriarch of Minangkabau society. Today, Bundo Kanduang refers to the traditional institution consisting of female elders revered in adat (tradition) of Minangkabau society.\n\nIn Indonesian history, there are records of some prominent women that held and exercised considerable power and influences within their society, despite usually reserved only for elite ruling class. Among others are Queen Shima of Kalingga Kingdom (c. 7th century), Pramodhawardhani of Medang Kingdom (c. 9th century), Isyana Tunggawijaya of Medang Isyana dynasty (c. 10th century), Mahendradatta of Bali (c. 10th century), Ken Dedes of Singhasari (c. 13th century), also queens of Majapahit (c. 13th-15th century); Gayatri Rajapatni, Tribhuwana Wijayatunggadewi and Suhita. Later after the coming of Islam in Java, Ratu Kalinyamat of Jepara also a notable female leader. Sultanate of Aceh also recorded several sultanahs ever ruled the Aceh sultanate. Indonesian Republic recognized several historic national heroines that fought against Dutch colonialism; among others are Nyi Ageng Serang, Martha Christina Tiahahu, Cut Nyak Dhien and Cut Nyak Meutia. \n\nThe women's emancipation movement was started in late 19th century colonial Dutch East Indies, when a handful of upperclass native woman advocated for women's rights and education for women. These women's right pioneers are Kartini of Jepara and Dewi Sartika of Bandung, both of them established school for girls, and has been recognized as the national heroine of Indonesia.\n\nWomen's suffrage was never an issue in Indonesia, since its first election in 1955 Indonesia held that women has equal rights with men in politics, although in practice politics is still a male-dominated realm. In 2001, Megawati Sukarnoputri—then serving as Vice President—became the first female president of Indonesia after the removal of President Abdurrahman Wahid.\n\nIndonesia signed the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women in 1980 and ratified it in 1984.\n\nThe Indonesian National Commission on Violence Against Women noted that more regulations that discriminate against women are being adopted throughout the country than are being repealed.\n\nIn 2012, the Commission noted 282 bylaws in various jurisdictions across Indonesia that it deemed discriminatory, compared with 154 such instruments in 2009.\nThere are 96 that impose criminal sanctions on women through regulations on prostitution and pornography, 60 that contain dress codes and religious standards, and 38 that place restrictions on women’s mobility. Although such bylaws can be found in 28 Indonesian provinces, the six provinces in which they are largely concentrated are East Java, South Kalimantan, South Sulawesi, West Java, West Nusa Tenggara, and West Sumatra.\n\nIn many parts of Indonesia, local laws compelling women and girls to wear the hijab are increasingly in place in schools, government offices and public spaces.\nAceh province has implemented Sharia law in full. In Aceh, all Muslim women must wear the traditional head covering known as hijab; fraternising with the opposite sex outside marriage is banned.\n\nMore than 90 percent of rape cases in Indonesia go unreported, victims fear being blamed.\n\nAn Indonesian railway company, \"PT Kereta Api\", introduced women-only carriages on some KRL Jabotabek commuter trains in the Jakarta metropolitan area from August 2010 in response to many reports of sexual harassment in public places, including commuter trains and buses.\nThe women-only carriages on commuter trains are usually denoted by large pink or purple stickers, which read \"\"Kereta Khusus Wanita\", and are located at each end of the train. This kind of carriage was previously only able to be found on air-conditioned EMUs, but a number of recently repaired non-air conditioned EMUs have also been equipped with the women-only carriage stickers.\n\nRecently, \"PT Kereta Api\" launched a special women-only train (the train itself uses an ex-Tokyo Metro 6000 series EMU, set number 6107F), which intended as further protection for female passengers from sexual harassment. To give difference from standard EMUs (which only provides women-only carriages on each end of the train), the women-only train had all of its cars decorated with large \"Kereta Khusus Wanita\"\" stickers coloured purple or pink. Since 1 October 2012, \"PT Kereta Api Indonesia\" (Persero) Commuter Jabodetabek launch the women-only trains. This practice ended in May 2013 after reports found that mixed-use cars were overcrowded during rush hour while women's only cars were underutilized.\n\nDowry is seldom to never practiced in Indonesian culture, yet bride price is practiced by certain ethnic groups. For example, the \"uang panai\" bride price in Bugis culture. The more prominent the education, career, beauty, social and economic strata, or noble background of the bride, the more expensive the \"uang panai\" should be paid. In Minangkabau matrilineal culture, the payment of the bride price—or more correctly addressed as the \"groom price\", is given to the groom's parents, as the husband is entering his newly wed wife's household. The more prominent the education and career of the groom, the more expensive the groom price should be paid. The custom is called \"bajapuik\" or \"uang japuik\", although historically a widespread practice in Minangkabau land, today only people of Pariaman that persistently practice this custom. The more commonly prevailing national culture is the \"mas kawin\" (lit. \"marriage gold\") or \"mahar\" which refer to a gift provided by the groom to be given to the bride. It may contain a sum of money or gold, sometimes because of the adoption of Islamic culture, also include or replaced by symbolic religious items such as \"seperangkat alat sholat\" (Islamic praying equipment).\n\nAs many other developing countries, a high fertility rate is a major problem facing the country. Traditionally, Indonesian society has viewed children as the source of fortune. A local saying that more children equated to more fortune and it was widely believed that the use of contraceptives contravened religious and moral values. This contributed to a very high fertility rate. Recognising that high fertility was a major factor in creating widespread poverty. Child marriage is also sustained by traditional norms.\n\nChild marriage is common.\nIt is among the triggering factors of diseases in women such as cervical cancer.\nChild marriage is sustained by traditional norms.\n\nMany pregnant women in Indonesia do not have the financial capability to pay for hospital deliveries and birthing by Caesarean section, because of disproportionate salaries and medical expenses. Thus, these women require the support and assistance of \"birth sanctuaries\" that provide \"free prenatal care, birthing services and medical aid\", such as the \"Yayasan Bumi Sehat\" (Healthy Mother Earth Foundation) health clinics established by Robin Lim, an American midwife, in 2003. Such 24-hour nativity havens, mostly located in Bali and Aceh, help Indonesian women to escape the common practice of private hospitals in Indonesia that entails detaining newborn infants until medical bills are fully remunerated by the birth mothers.\n\nNonetheless, the economy now seems to be improving (high GDP growth in 2012 as high as 6.2%) and some programs had been done by the government to help promote the health and welfare of women and child. A ministry that especially concerns in the field had been established for a long time since the regime of the late President Suharto during the New Order.\n\nIn Indonesian culture, it is a social norm for husbands to economically provides for his wife and the whole family. Which means husband's earnings is expected to be given to the wife monthly and to be managed by her for family spending and savings. However, it is normal for women to pursue economic activity. For example, \"warung\", a small scale family-owned store, is often run equally by men or women. In most parts of the country, Indonesian women traditionally enjoyed a degree of social and economic freedom. To support their family's economy, Indonesian women are involved in economic activities outside of their households, although mostly informal small-scale business. It is common to find women run businesses in traditional Indonesian marketplaces.\n\nAfter a surge of foreign multinational investors began investing in Indonesia during the 1970s, many Indonesian women became the \"prime workforce\" and a source of cheap labourers in manufacturing businesses. In the 1990s, some women in Indonesia, including adolescents and the homeless, resorted to engage in employment as sex workers and housemaids due to financial hardship. Some of the women who were forced into such work opted to go abroad, into countries such as Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Some have since become victims of torture, sexual abuse, murder, illegal detention, rape, sodomy, and other forms of sexual assault. Health-wise, as a consequence of becoming prostituted by human traffickers, some have contracted HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nIndonesia is among the countries which have had a female president; Megawati Sukarnoputri served as president of Indonesia from 2001 to 2004. In 2012, 18% of national parliament representatives were held by women. Tri Rismaharini is one example of the rising numbers of female leaders throughout Indonesia. More and more women are becoming scholars. The ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary schools is also even as of 2013.\n\nMore scholarships awarded by the Indonesian government (and some other institutions other than the government) were given to women, and resulted in higher achievement in their later life. In most major cities like Jakarta and Surabaya, the educated female workforce tends to postpone the marital age and girls who finish secondary school are six times less likely to marry early.\n\nIndonesian women could be making considerable shifts to national employment - women currently hold 33% of non-agricultural employment as they also work in the prestigious and traditionally male-dominated field such as architecture, medicine, and engineering. Indonesian women has pursued various line of works and some has excel in their career. Prominent women figure including economists such as Sri Mulyani Indrawati and Mari Elka Pangestu, Olympic gold medalist sportswomen such as Susi Susanti and Liliyana Natsir, to activists such as Butet Manurung and Yenny Wahid.\n\nDuring the administration of President Joko Widodo, Indonesia had 26 percent female representation among state ministers, the highest among the 10 most populous countries. Indonesia has increasingly put women in senior roles in the government, business and finance. Prominence officials include Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati, Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi, and Maritime and Fisheries Minister Susi Pudjiastuti, are female ministers in Joko Widodo administration. Also Rosmaya Hadi as Bank Indonesia's deputy governor.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "491939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491939", "title": "World Climate Report", "text": "World Climate Report\n\nWorld Climate Report, a newsletter edited by Patrick Michaels, was produced by the Greening Earth Society, a non-profit organization created by the Western Fuels Association.\n\nEarly editions were paper based; it was then transferred to a web-only format, having ceased publication as a physically based report with Volume 8 in 2002. It continues to exist in blog form at www.worldclimatereport.com, although the website itself has not been updated since late 2012.\n\nWorld Climate Report presents a scientific skeptical view of populist anthropogenic-driven mass global climate change, or as it describes, 'Global Warming Alarmism'. However, it does not reject the concepts of global climate change or greenhouse theory (or other well-established and widely accepted scientific theories or empirical studies), in general attempting to engender itself as giving a well balanced and scientific view of the sources (though often at a contrary expense of its perceived adversaries: the aforementioned alleged 'Global Warming Alarmists').\n\nWCR says of itself:\n\nIn addition to Patrick Michaels (chief editor), the staff is listed as Robert C. Balling, Jr (contributing editor), Robert Davis (contributing editor), and Paul Knappenberger (Administrator).\n\nNew Hope Environmental Services, an advocacy science consulting firm, claims WCR as its biweekly newsletter.\n\n"}
