{"id": "57576270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57576270", "title": "2018 Science Olympiad National Tournament", "text": "2018 Science Olympiad National Tournament\n\nThe 2018 Science Olympiad National Tournament was the 34th annual edition of the National Science Olympiad tournament, a competition in which 120 teams (sixty middle school and sixty high school) from all fifty states and the District of Columbia compete in twenty three science-related events, in various fields of science, such as chemistry, physics, biology, and geology. The tournament was hosted for the first time by Colorado State University in Fort Collins, Colorado, with competitions being held around campus and the opening and closing ceremonies being held at the Moby Arena.\n\nOnly one of the winners from last year's national competition at Wright State University were able to defend their titles; the defending champions were Daniel Wright Junior High School (IL) and Troy High School (CA). Troy finished first to successfully defend their title, and Daniel Wright finished second. Solon Middle School (OH) won the Division B tournament to win their eighth title, keeping them in second for most National championships.\n"}
{"id": "24467675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24467675", "title": "Academic grading in Syria", "text": "Academic grading in Syria\n\nIn Syria the academic grading system functions with points out of 100, the minimum grade required to pass an undergraduate class is 60.\n"}
{"id": "47310257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47310257", "title": "Association for Student Conduct Administration", "text": "Association for Student Conduct Administration\n\nThe Association for Student Conduct Administration (ASCA) (formerly the Association for Student Judicial Affairs) is the leading voice for student conduct administration within higher education, conflict resolution, law and public policy related to student conduct administration. ASCA also attracts members who work in higher education prevention education and Title IX administrators in the United States. Founded in 1987 ASCA has over 3,000 members at over 1,000 institutions. ASCA's headquarters reside on the campus of Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, with a satellite office on Dupont Circle in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe mission statement of ASCA is to support higher education professionals by providing education materials and resources, intentional professional development opportunities and a network of colleagues to facilitate best practices of student conduct administration and conflict resolution on college and university campuses.\n\nThe creation of the Association for Student Judicial Affairs was spearheaded by Donald D. Gehring of the University of Louisville in conversations with colleagues at the Stetson University Law and Higher Education Conference. ASJA officially came to form in 1987 with the creation of a steering committee and funding support from Raymond Goldstone of the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nASJA held its first annual conference in 1989 and began the annual Donald D. Gehring Academy for Student Conduct Administration in 1993. In 2008, ASJA changed its name to the Association for Student Conduct Administration (ASCA). In 2015, ASCA opened a satellite office in Washington, D.C., in collaboration with the American College Personnel Association, to facilitate more interaction with other higher education professional associations and to assist public policy advocacy efforts.\n\nASCA produces several national professional development programs each year, including an annual conference, the Donald D. Gehring Academy for Student Conduct Administration, a Title IX and Sexual Misconduct Institute, as well as national collaborations with other professional associations such as NASPA, the Association of Fraternity Advisors, and the National Association for Campus Activities.\n\nASCA is organizationally divided into four geographic regions administered by regional chairs with each state having a state coordinator. The association sponsors committees and communities of practice on topics such as conflict resolution, research, academic integrity, assessment, community colleges, fraternity and sorority life, public policy and legislative issues, mental health, threat assessment and sexual assault.\n\nAfter the release of the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights (OCR) \"Dear Colleague Letter\" discussing Title IX and campus sexual assault in April 2011, ASCA leadership and publications were frequently cited in the national media to discuss topics related to sexual assault response. ASCA has voiced support for the OCR-required preponderance of the evidence standard in campus sexual assault adjudications, mandatory academic transcript notation for serious disciplinary matters, and advocacy for institutionally-based discipline processes.\n\nASCA has received criticism from popular media outlets Huffington Post and Jezebel for a perceived focus on educational outcomes in campus sexual assault adjudication. ASCA responded to those concerns with the publication of a \"Gold Standard\" report on sexual assault adjudication practices.\n\nThe Raymond Goldstone ASCA Foundation provides funds for scholarships to ASCA professional development opportunities such as the annual conference or Gehring Academy.\n"}
{"id": "12328438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12328438", "title": "Auditory processing disorder", "text": "Auditory processing disorder\n\nAuditory processing disorder (APD), also known as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD), is an umbrella term for a variety of disorders that affect the way the brain processes auditory information. Individuals with APD usually have normal structure and function of the outer, middle, and inner ear (peripheral hearing). However, they cannot process the information they hear in the same way as others do, which leads to difficulties in recognizing and interpreting sounds, especially the sounds composing speech. It is thought that these difficulties arise from dysfunction in the central nervous system.\n\nThe American Academy of Audiology notes that APD is diagnosed by difficulties in one or more auditory processes known to reflect the function of the central auditory nervous system.\n\nAPD can affect both children and adults, although the actual prevalence is currently unknown. It has been suggested that males are twice as likely to be affected by the disorder as females, but there are no good epidemiological studies.\n\nCAPD can continue into adulthood. Cooper and Gates (1991) estimated the prevalence of adult APD to be 10 to 20%. Many people experience problems with learning and day-to-day tasks with difficulties over time. Adults with this disorder\n\nIt has been discovered that APD and ADHD present overlapping symptoms. Below is a ranked order of behavioral symptoms that are most frequently observed in each disorder. Professionals evaluated the overlap of symptoms between the two disorders. The order below is of symptoms that are almost always observed. This chart proves that although the symptoms listed are different, it is easy to get confused between many of them.\n\nThere is a high rate of co-occurrence between AD/HD and CAPD. An article published in 1994 showed that 84% of children with APD have confirmed or suspected ADHD. Co-occurrence between ADHD and APD is 41% for children with confirmed diagnosis of ADHD, and 43% for children suspected of having ADHD. \"more recently published data is needed to support or refute this statement.\" \n\nThere has been considerable debate over the relationship between APD and Specific language impairment (SLI).\n\nSLI is diagnosed when a child has difficulties with understanding or producing spoken language for no obvious cause. The problems cannot be explained in terms of peripheral hearing loss. The child is typically late in starting to talk, and may have problems in producing speech sounds clearly, and in producing or understanding complex sentences. Some theoretical accounts of SLI regard it as the result of auditory processing problems. However, this view of SLI is not universally accepted, and others regard the main difficulties in SLI as stemming from problems with higher-level aspects of language processing. Where a child has both auditory and language problems, it can be hard to sort out cause-and-effect.\n\nSimilarly with developmental dyslexia, there has been considerable interest in the idea that for some children reading problems are downstream consequences of difficulties in rapid auditory processing. Again, cause and effect can be hard to unravel. This is one reason why experts such as Moore have recommended using non-verbal auditory tests to diagnose APD. Specifically regarding the neurological factors of dyslexia, the disorder has been linked to polymicrogyria which causes cell migrational problems. This relates to APD because children that have polymicrogyri almost always present deficits on APD testing.\n\nIt has also been suggested that APD may be related to cluttering, a fluency disorder marked by word and phrase repetitions.\n\nIt has been found that a higher than expected proportion of individuals diagnosed with SLI and dyslexia on the basis of language and reading tests also perform poorly on tests in which APD is tested. APD can be assessed using tests that involve identifying, repeating or discriminating speech, and a child may do poorly because of primary language problems. In a study comparing children with a diagnosis of dyslexia and those with a diagnosis of APD, they found the two groups could not be distinguished. obtained similar findings in studies comparing children diagnosed with SLI or APD. The two groups had very similar profiles. This raises the worrying possibility that the diagnosis that a child receives may be largely a function of the specialist they see: the same child who would be diagnosed with APD by an audiologist may be diagnosed with SLI by a speech-language therapist or with dyslexia by a psychologist.\n\nAcquired APD can be caused by any damage to or dysfunction of the central auditory nervous system and can cause auditory processing problems. For an overview of neurological aspects of APD, see Griffiths.\n\nThe ability to listen to and comprehend multiple messages at the same time is a trait that is heavily influenced by our genes say federal researchers. These \"short circuits in the wiring\" sometimes run in families or result from a difficult birth, just like any learning disability. Auditory processing disorder can be associated with conditions affected by genetic traits, such as various developmental disorders. Inheritance of Auditory Processing Disorder refers to whether the condition is inherited from your parents or \"runs\" in families. Central auditory processing disorder may be hereditary neurological traits from the mother or the father.\n\nIn the majority of cases of developmental APD, the cause is unknown. An exception is acquired epileptic aphasia or Landau-Kleffner syndrome, where a child's development regresses, with language comprehension severely affected. The child is often thought to be deaf, but normal peripheral hearing is found. In other cases, suspected or known causes of APD in children include delay in myelin maturation, ectopic (misplaced) cells in the auditory cortical areas, or genetic predisposition. In a family with autosomal dominant epilepsy, seizures which affected the left temporal lobe seemed to cause problems with auditory processing. In another extended family with a high rate of APD, genetic analysis showed a haplotype in chromosome 12 that fully co-segregated with language impairment.\n\nHearing begins in utero, but the central auditory system continues to develop for at least the first decade. There is considerable interest in the idea that disruption to hearing during a sensitive period may have long-term consequences for auditory development. One study showed thalamocortical connectivity in vitro was associated with a time sensitive developmental window and required a specific cell adhesion molecule (lcam5) for proper brain plasticity to occur. This points to connectivity between the thalamus and cortex shortly after being able to hear (in vitro) as at least one critical period for auditory processing. Another study showed that rats reared in a single tone environment during critical periods of development had permanently impaired auditory processing. ‘Bad’ auditory experiences, such as temporary deafness by cochlear removal in rats leads to neuron shrinkage. In a study looking at attention in APD patients, children with one ear blocked developed a strong right-ear advantage but were not able to modulate that advantage during directed-attention tasks.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, there was considerable interest in the role of chronic Otitis media (middle ear disease or 'glue ear') in causing APD and related language and literacy problems. Otitis media with effusion is a very common childhood disease that causes a fluctuating conductive hearing loss, and there was concern this may disrupt auditory development if it occurred during a sensitive period. Consistent with this, in a sample of young children with chronic ear infections recruited from a hospital otolargyngology department, increased rates of auditory difficulties were found later in childhood. However, this kind of study will suffer from sampling bias because children with otitis media will be more likely to be referred to hospital departments if they are experiencing developmental difficulties. Compared with hospital studies, epidemiological studies, which assesses a whole population for otitis media and then evaluate outcomes, have found much weaker evidence for long-term impacts of otitis media on language outcomes.\n\nQuestionnaires can be used for the identification persons with possible auditory processing disorders, as these address common problems of listening. They can help in the decision for pursuing clinical evaluation. One of the most common listening problems is speech recognition in the presence of background noise. According to the respondents who participated in a study by Neijenhuis, de Wit, and Luinge (2017), the following symptoms are characteristic in children with listening difficulties, and they are typically problematic with adolescents and adults. They include:\n\n\nAccording to the New Zealand Guidelines on Auditory Processing Disorders (2017) a checklist of key symptoms of APD or comorbidities that can be used to identify individuals who should be referred for audiological and APD assessment includes, among others:\n\n\nFinally, the New Zealand guidelines state that behavioral checklists and questionnaires should only be used to provide guidance for referrals, for information gathering (for example, prior to assessment or as outcome measures for interventions), and as measures to describe the functional impact of auditory processing disorder.  They are not designed for the purpose of diagnosing auditory processing disorders. The New Zealand guidelines indicate that a number of questionnaires have been developed to identify children who might benefit from evaluation of their problems in listening.  Examples of available questionnaires include the Fisher’s Auditory Problems Checklist (1976), the Children’s Auditory Performance Scale (1998), the Screening Instrument for Targeting Educational Risk (1989), and the Auditory Processing Domains Questionnaire (O’Haraa and Mealings, 2017) among others. All of the previous questionnaires were designed for children and none are useful for adolescents and adults.   \n\nThe University of Cincinnati Auditory Processing Inventory (UCAPI) (Keith, Tektas and Ramsey, 2018) was designed for use with adolescents and adults seeking testing for evaluation of problems with listening and/or to be used following diagnosis of an auditory processing disorder to determine the subject’s status.  Following a model described by Zoppo et al. (2015) a 34-item questionnaire was developed that investigates auditory processing abilities in each of the six common areas of complaint in APD (listening and concentration, understanding speech, following spoken instructions, attention, and other.)  The final questionnaire was standardized on normally achieving young adults ranging from 18 to 27 years of age.  Validation data was acquired from subjects with language-learning or auditory processing disorders who were either self-reported or confirmed by diagnostic testing.  A UCAPI  total score is calculated by combining the totals from the six listening conditions and provides an overall value to categorize listening abilities. Additionally, analysis of the scores from the six listening conditions provides an auditory profile for the subject. Each listening condition can then be utilized by the professional in making recommendation for diagnosing problem of learning through listening and treatment decisions.  The UCAPI provides information on listening problems in various populations that can aid examiners in making recommendations for assessment and management.\n\nAPD is a difficult disorder to detect and diagnose. The subjective symptoms that lead to an evaluation for APD include an intermittent inability to process verbal information, leading the person to guess to fill in the processing gaps. There may also be disproportionate problems with decoding speech in noisy environments.\n\nAPD has been defined anatomically in terms of the integrity of the auditory areas of the nervous system. However, children with symptoms of APD typically have no evidence of neurological disease and the diagnosis is made on the basis of performance on behavioral auditory tests. Auditory processing is \"what we do with what we hear\", and in APD there is a mismatch between peripheral hearing ability (which is typically normal) and ability to interpret or discriminate sounds. Thus in those with no signs of neurological impairment, APD is diagnosed on the basis of auditory tests. There is, however, no consensus as to which tests should be used for diagnosis, as evidenced by the succession of task force reports that have appeared in recent years. The first of these occurred in 1996. This was followed by a conference organized by the American Academy of Audiology. Experts attempting to define diagnostic criteria have to grapple with the problem that a child may do poorly on an auditory test for reasons other than poor auditory perception: for instance, failure could be due to inattention, difficulty in coping with task demands, or limited language ability. In an attempt to rule out at least some of these factors, the American Academy of Audiology conference explicitly advocated that for APD to be diagnosed, the child must have a modality-specific problem, i.e. affecting auditory but not visual processing. However, an ASHA committee subsequently rejected modality-specificity as a defining characteristic of auditory processing disorders.\nThe American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) published \"(Central) Auditory Processing Disorders\" in January 2005 as an update to the \"Central Auditory Processing: Current Status of Research and Implications for Clinical Practice (ASHA, 1996)\". The American Academy of Audiology has released more current practice guidelines related to the disorder. ASHA formally defines APA as \"a difficulty in the efficiency and effectiveness by which the central nervous system (CNS) utilizes auditory information.\"\n\nIn 2011, the British Society of Audiology published 'best practice guidelines'.\n\nAuditory processing disorder can be developmental or acquired. It may result from ear infections, head injuries or neurodevelopmental delays that affect processing of auditory information. This can include problems with: \"...sound localization and lateralization (see also binaural fusion); auditory discrimination; auditory pattern recognition; temporal aspects of audition, including temporal integration, temporal discrimination (e.g., temporal gap detection), temporal ordering, and temporal masking; auditory performance in competing acoustic signals (including dichotic listening); and auditory performance with degraded acoustic signals\".\n\nThe Committee of UK Medical Professionals Steering the UK Auditory Processing Disorder Research Program have developed the following working definition of Auditory Processing Disorder: \"APD results from impaired neural function and is characterized by poor recognition, discrimination, separation, grouping, localization, or ordering of speech sounds. It does not solely result from a deficit in general attention, language or other cognitive processes.\"\n\n1. The SCAN-C for children and SCAN-A for adolescents and adults are the most common tool for screening and diagnosing APD in the USA. Both tests are standardized on a large number of subjects and include validation data on subjects with auditory processing disorders. The test batteries include screening tests: norm-based criterion-referenced scores; diagnostic tests: scaled scores, percentile ranks and ear advantage scores for all tests except the Gap Detection test. The four tests include four subsets on which the subject scores are derived include: discrimination of monaurally presented single words against background noise (speech in noise), acoustically degraded single words (filtered words), dichotically presented single words and sentences. \n\n2. Random Gap Detection Test (RGDT) is also a standardized test. It assesses an individual’s gap detection threshold of tones and white noise. The exam includes stimuli at four different frequencies (500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 Hz) and white noise clicks of 50 ms duration. It is a useful test because it provides an index of auditory temporal resolution. In children, an overall gap detection threshold greater than 20 ms means they have failed and may have an auditory processing disorder based on abnormal perception of sound in the time domain.\n\n3. Gaps in Noise Test (GIN) also measures temporal resolution by testing the patient's gap detection threshold in white noise.\n\n4. Pitch Patterns Sequence Test (PPT) and Duration Patterns Sequence Test (DPT) measure auditory pattern identification. The PPS has s series of three tones presented at either of two pitches (high or low). Meanwhile, the DPS has a series of three tones that vary in duration rather than pitch (long or short). Patients are then asked to describe the pattern of pitches presented.\n\nThe issue of modality-specificity has led to considerable debate among experts in this field. Cacace and McFarland have argued that APD should be defined as a \"modality-specific\" perceptual dysfunction that is not due to peripheral hearing loss. They criticise more inclusive conceptualizations of APD as lacking diagnostic specificity. A requirement for modality-specificity could potentially avoid including children whose poor auditory performance is due to general factors such as poor attention or memory. Others, however, have argued that a modality-specific approach is too narrow, and that it would miss children who had genuine perceptual problems affecting both visual and auditory processing. It is also impractical, as audiologists do not have access to standardized tests that are visual analogs of auditory tests. The debate over this issue remains unresolved. It is clear, however, that a modality-specific approach will diagnose fewer children with APD than a modality-general one, and that the latter approach runs a risk of including children who fail auditory tests for reasons other than poor auditory processing. Although modality-specific testing has been advocated for well over a decade, to date no tests have been published which would allow audiologists to perform a modality-specific evaluation (i.e., no clinical versions of visual analogs to auditory processing tests exist).\n\nAnother controversy concerns the fact that most traditional tests of APD use verbal materials. The British Society of Audiology has embraced Moore's (2006) recommendation that tests for APD should assess processing of \"non-speech sounds\". The concern is that if verbal materials are used to test for APD, then children may fail because of limited language ability. An analogy may be drawn with trying to listen to sounds in a foreign language. It is much harder to distinguish between sounds or to remember a sequence of words in a language you do not know well: the problem is not an auditory one, but rather due to lack of expertise in the language.\n\nIn recent years there have been additional criticisms of some popular tests for diagnosis of APD. Tests that use tape-recorded American English have been shown to over-identify APD in speakers of other forms of English. Performance on a battery of non-verbal auditory tests devised by the Medical Research Council's Institute of Hearing Research was found to be heavily influenced by non-sensory task demands, and indices of APD had low reliability when this was controlled for. This research undermines the validity of APD as a distinct entity in its own right and suggests that the use of the term \"disorder\" itself is unwarranted. In a recent review of such diagnostic issues, it was recommended that children with suspected auditory processing impairments receive a holistic psychometric assessment including general intellectual ability, auditory memory, and attention, phonological processing, language, and literacy. The authors state that \"a clearer understanding of the relative contributions of perceptual and non-sensory, unimodal and supramodal factors to performance on psychoacoustic tests may well be the key to unravelling the clinical presentation of these individuals.\"\n\nDepending on how it is defined, APD may share common symptoms with ADD/ADHD, specific language impairment, and autism spectrum disorders. A review showed substantial evidence for atypical processing of auditory information in children with autism. Dawes and Bishop noted how specialists in audiology and speech-language pathology often adopted different approaches to child assessment, and they concluded their review as follows: \"We regard it as crucial that these different professional groups work together in carrying out assessment, treatment and management of children and undertaking cross-disciplinary research.\" In practice, this seems rare.\n\nTo ensure that APD is correctly diagnosed, the examiners must differentiate APD from other disorders with similar symptoms. Factors that should be taken into account during the diagnosis are: attention, auditory neuropathy, fatigue, hearing and sensitivity, intellectual and developmental age, medications, motivation, motor skills, native language and language experience, response strategies and decision-making style, and visual acuity.\n\nIt should also be noted that children under the age of seven cannot be evaluated correctly because their language and auditory processes are still developing. In addition, the presence of APD cannot be evaluated when a child's primary language is not English.\n\nThe National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders state that children with Auditory Processing Disorder often:\n\nAPD can manifest as problems determining the direction of sounds, difficulty perceiving differences between speech sounds and the sequencing of these sounds into meaningful words, confusing similar sounds such as \"hat\" with \"bat\", \"there\" with \"where\", etc. Fewer words may be perceived than were actually said, as there can be problems detecting the gaps between words, creating the sense that someone is speaking unfamiliar or nonsense words. In addition, it is common for APD to cause speech errors involving the distortion and substitution of consonant sounds. Those suffering from APD may have problems relating what has been said with its meaning, despite obvious recognition that a word has been said, as well as repetition of the word. Background noise, such as the sound of a radio, television or a noisy bar can make it difficult to impossible to understand speech, since spoken words may sound distorted either into irrelevant words or words that don't exist, depending on the severity of the auditory processing disorder. Using a telephone can be problematic for someone with auditory processing disorder, in comparison with someone with normal auditory processing, due to low quality audio, poor signal, intermittent sounds and the chopping of words. Many who have auditory processing disorder subconsciously develop visual coping strategies, such as lip reading, reading body language, and eye contact, to compensate for their auditory deficit, and these coping strategies are not available when using a telephone.\n\nAs noted above, the status of APD as a distinct disorder has been queried, especially by speech-language pathologists and psychologists, who note the overlap between clinical profiles of children diagnosed with APD and those with other forms of specific learning disability. Many audiologists, however, would dispute that APD is just an alternative label for dyslexia, SLI, or ADHD, noting that although it often co-occurs with these conditions, it can be found in isolation.\n\nTreatment of APD typically focuses on three primary areas: changing learning environment, developing higher-order skills to compensate for the disorder, and remediation of the auditory deficit itself. However, there is a lack of well-conducted evaluations of intervention using randomized controlled trial methodology. Most evidence for effectiveness adopts weaker standards of evidence, such as showing that performance improves after training. This does not control for possible influences of practice, maturation, or placebo effects. Recent research has shown that practice with basic auditory processing tasks (i.e. auditory training) may improve performance on auditory processing measures and phonemic awareness measures. Changes after auditory training have also been recorded at the physiological level. Many of these tasks are incorporated into computer-based auditory training programs such as Earobics and Fast ForWord, an adaptive software available at home and in clinics worldwide, but overall, evidence for effectiveness of these computerised interventions in improving language and literacy is not impressive. One small-scale uncontrolled study reported successful outcomes for children with APD using auditory training software.\n\nTreating additional issues related to APD can result in success. For example, treatment for phonological disorders (difficulty in speech) can result in success in terms of both the phonological disorder as well as APD. In one study, speech therapy improved auditory evoked potentials (a measure of brain activity in the auditory portions of the brain).\n\nWhile there is evidence that language training is effective for improving APD, there is no current research supporting the following APD treatments:\n\nHowever, use of a FM transmitter has been shown to produce significant improvements over time with children.\n\nThe first research into APD began in 1954 with Helmer Myklebust's study, \"Auditory Disorders in Children\". Myklebust's work suggested auditory processing disorder was separate from language learning difficulties. His work sparked interest in auditory deficits after acquired brain lesions affecting the temporal lobes and led to additional work looking at the physiological basis of auditory processing, but it was not until the late seventies and early eighties that research began on APD in depth.\nIn 1977, the first conference on the topic of APD was organized by Robert W. Keith, Ph.D. at the University of Cincinnati. The proceedings of that conference was published by Grune and Stratton under the title \"Central Auditory Dysfunction\" (Keith RW Ed.) That conference started a new series of studies focusing on APD in children. Virtually all tests currently used to diagnose APD originate from this work. These early researchers also invented many of the auditory training approaches, including interhemispheric transfer training and interaural intensity difference training. This period gave us a rough understanding of the causes and possible treatment options for APD.\nMuch of the work in the late nineties and 2000s has been looking to refining testing, developing more sophisticated treatment options, and looking for genetic risk factors for APD. Scientists have worked on improving behavioral tests of auditory function, neuroimaging, electroacoustic, and electrophysiologic testing. Working with new technology has led to a number of software programs for auditory training. With global awareness of mental disorders and increasing understanding of neuroscience, auditory processing is more in the public and academic consciousness than ever before.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6528112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6528112", "title": "Black History for Action", "text": "Black History for Action\n\nIn politics and history the Black History for Action (BHA), founded in 1986, became a long-standing and highly regarded independent lecture and discussion forum for the British African-Caribbean community in London.\n\nNotable speakers have included the Jamaican academic Dr. Richard Hart, Maria Florez, the Cuban ambassador to Britain, representatives of the South African African National Congress and Pan-African Congress, and the Florida human-rights activist Omali Yeshitela. \n\nLecture topics have included: \"200 years since the Haitian Revolution\" (1991 season); \"Black Women and the Garvey Movement\" (1988 season) and \"Harriet Tubman\" (1990 season). Each lecture was followed by a public debate.\n\nThe purpose of the forum was to stimulate debate, learning and public interest in Pan-African history and politics in an atmosphere of academic and political freedom.\n\nBHA was held fortnightly (then monthly), primarily in Brixton, but also in other London locations including Lewisham and Hackney. The main venues were St Matthew (the Church of England's large chapel in the centre of Brixton), as well as Brixton Town Hall (the seat of government for the London Borough of Lambeth).\n\nBlack History for Action was organised by an independent, secular management committee of invited community volunteers, prominent amongst whom was the late Afruika Bantu (formerly known as Annette Blair). The BHA's guiding principle was that, as an independent organisation, it ought not be subject to financial or political interference by corporate or government funding agencies.\n\nHowever, despite its financial independence, entrance to BHA was free. Voluntary contributions were used to pay for publicity materials and venue hire. Speakers and volunteers were not paid. Meetings were advertised in free listings sections of \"The Voice\" and \"The Caribbean Times\" newspapers.\n\nIn 1987 BHA lecture facilities were greatly improved by the incorporation of a free creche. This service was provided by volunteers (who were vetted and trained by the management committee). The experience of running the creche led the management committee to form a Saturday School (now known as the Afruika Bantu Saturday School, in recognition of the late community activist).\n\nMeetings also served as a small distribution outlet for pan-African history books and pamphlets such as Walter Rodney's \"How Europe Underdeveloped Africa\", Malcolm X's \"On Afro-American History\" and Richard Hart's \"Black Jamaican's Struggle Against Slavery\".\n"}
{"id": "47218758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47218758", "title": "Braga incident", "text": "Braga incident\n\nThe Braga incident was a 2014 academic scandal in which Xu Lin, the Director-General (\"zhǔrèn\" 主任) of the Hanban and Chief Executive (\"zǒnggànshi\" 总干事) of the Confucius Institute Headquarters ordered her staff to rip pages referring to Taiwanese academic institutions from the published program for the European Association for Chinese Studies July–August conference in Braga, Portugal, claiming the materials were \"contrary to Chinese regulations\", which the \"Wall Street Journal\" described as the \"bullying approach to academic freedom\". The incident led to renewed criticism of Confucius Institutes.\n\nOn 22 July 2014, the evening before the start of the European Association of Chinese Studies (EACS) conference in Braga, Portugal, Xu Lin removed four pages from the conference program and one page from the abstracts, which referred to Taiwan’s Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, a major sponsor of the conference for the past 20 years. The EACS protested and reprinted all the deleted materials for distribution to all conference members. Roger Greatrex, president of the EACS, subsequently issued a report on the page deletions, and an official letter of protest that concluded, \"Such interference in the internal organization of the international conference of an independent and democratically organized non-profitable academic organization is totally unacceptable.\"\n\nConference registration began on 22 July 2014, and about 100 participants received complete copies of the abstracts and program, which comprised 89 pages, including the cover and front matter. However, after Xu Lin, who was a keynote speaker, arrived that evening, she proclaimed that any mention of the Confucius China Studies Program (CCSP) sponsorship be removed from the Conference Abstracts, and ordered her entourage from Confucius Institute Headquarters to remove all conference materials and take them to the apartment of a local CI teacher. When the remaining 300 participants arrived for conference registration on 23 July, they did not receive the printed abstracts or programs but only a brief summarized schedule. After last-minute negotiations between Xu Lin and conference organizers to ensure conference members received the program, a compromise was made to allow the removal of one abstract page that mentioned the CCSP support of the conference.\n\nOn the morning of 24 July, the remaining 300 conference participants received their materials, which were now missing four printed pages: the frontispiece mentioning CCSP sponsorship in the conference abstract, and three pages from the conference program. These expurgated pages contained information of the book exhibition and library donation organized by the Taiwan National Central Library, and the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange. The director of the National Central Library stated that EACS officials and members had spoken out against Xu during the opening ceremony.\n\nMarshall Sahlins explained that the EACS censorship brings to light the Hanban's seriousness in enforcing its contractual provisions \"the way they do in China which is not so much by going to court ... but simply by fiat\". \"The Christian Science Monitor\" said that the Hanban/CI censorship has made more American, European, and Australian academics grow uneasy with CIs, and reported that when Ms. Xu met privately with foreign scholars in Shanghai, who asked specifically about the missing pages, \"she denied ordering them censored.\"\n\nIn December 2014, the BBC interviewed Xu Lin in Beijing. When the interviewer brought up the Braga incident, Xu Lin objected and later asked for large portions of the interview to be deleted. One of the points she made in the interview is that Taiwan belongs to China, and therefore outsiders have no business interfering. The BBC did not agree to the censorship demand. \"Xu Lin not only refused to answer difficult questions, she also politicised the Confucius Institutes and reinforced the idea that they are led by dogmatists,\" commented Gary Rawnsley, professor of Public Diplomacy at Aberystwyth University, Wales.\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" reported on Xu's BBC interview, and said, \"Critics have argued that China’s Confucius Institutes pose a threat to academic freedom in the United States, Canada, Europe and beyond. Now the Beijing official in charge of them has confirmed it.\"\n\nThe University of Chicago, Pennsylvania State University, and the Toronto District School Board left in 2014.\n\nIn December 2014, Stockholm University, the first university in Europe to host a Confucius Institute, announced it was terminating the program. Press coverage of the Braga incident in the Swedish press was said to have influenced the decision. \"Generally it is questionable to have, within the framework of the university, institutes that are financed by another country,\" said the university's chancellor.\n"}
{"id": "25929510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25929510", "title": "Brainbench", "text": "Brainbench\n\nBrainbench is an online education company founded in January 1998 (until 8 December 1999 the name was Tekmetrics.com) and later acquired by PreVisor in 2006. PreVisor merged with SHL in 2011; SHL was acquired by the Corporate Executive Board in 2012. CEB was acquired by Gartner in 2017. CEB's Talent Assessment business was acquired from Gartner by Exponent Private Equity in 2018. The CEB Talent Assessment Business was re-branded as SHL in 2018. Brainbench provides online certifications mainly in the Information Technology field and others in general. The company has provided its services to over 5,000 corporate clients and over 6 million individuals. Some of Brainbench's 630 exams are available free of charge, while others are administered for a fee.\n\nBrainbench provides online tests for registered users on its website. The tests include paid tests, which require payment in order to take the exams, free tests, and beta tests, which are pre-released tests where no certificates are provided when testing is completed.\n\n"}
{"id": "24029787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24029787", "title": "C. V. Chandrasekhar", "text": "C. V. Chandrasekhar\n\nC. V. Chandrasekhar (born 22 May 1935) is an Indian Bharatanatyam dancer, academician, dance scholar, composer, and choreographer. He retired as Head of the Faculty of Performing Arts of M.S. University, Baroda in 1992. Professor Chandrashekhar and wife Jaya Chandrasekhar are one of the best known dancing couples of Bharata Natyam in India, during the 1970s and ’80s, they performed with their daughters Chitra and Manjari. Also, his grandchildren Viraj, Dhenuka, Harshavardhan and Amshuman have been of great support to him. He now runs his own dance institution, \"Nrityashree\", in Chennai.\n\nHe was awarded the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for Bharatnatyam in 1993, by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy of Music, Dance and Drama, and received the Kalidas Samman in 2008. In 2011, he was honoured with the Padma Bhushan by the Government of India.\n\nHe did his M. Sc., and thereafter received a Post graduate diploma (Bharatanatyam), after he trained at the internationally renowned Kalakshetra in Chennai, under the mentorship of Rukmini Devi Arundale, Karaikkal Saradambal, K.N. Dandaydhapani Pillai and others. He has received training classical music under teachers like Budulur Krishnamurthy Sastrigal and M.D. Ramanathan.\n\nChandrasekhar started his dancing career in 1947, when there were few male dancers. He served at the Banaras Hindu University and later joined M.S. University of Baroda, where he retired as the Head and Dean of the Faculty of Performing Arts in 1992. C.V. Chandrasekhar is a multi-faceted personality being a dancer, choreographer, researcher, musician, academician, composer and highly acclaimed teacher of Bharatanatyam.\n\nHe has been performing for the past six decades in India and all over the globe and is invited by many dancers the world over to teach and to choreograph. He continues to perform on stage well into his seventh decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "23678259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23678259", "title": "Edhance", "text": "Edhance\n\nEdhance is a now inoperative American corporation that operated a student discount program prior to its acquisition by BuyWithMe, Inc. The company allowed college students to register up to five existing Visa or MasterCard credit or debit cards and automatically receive discounts when shopping with participating merchants.\n\nThe company was founded in 2008 by Bjorn Larsen, KJ Gundersen, and Kris Helenek and was acquired by BuyWithMe, Inc in June 2011.\n\nEdhance uses a registered card model to send discounts to students in the form of automatic cash back. Once a student has registered their card with Edhance any time that student uses that registered card at a participating \"card model\" retailer, the transaction is automatically sent to Edhance and a discount will be processed into that students Edhance account. Card model discounts are typically between 5% and 25% off.\n\nIn addition to the \"card model\" Edhance offered discounts for online deals.\n\nAs of June 2011, Edhance had over 2 million enrolled members. Edhance is free for students.\n\nEdhance utilized StudentsOnly enrollment verification technology to check whether or not members are currently enrolled at an accredited university or college across the United States.\n\nEdhance was able to verify students in most cases in real time through relationships with universities. When a student was unable to be verified in real time and Edhance agent contacted the student to verify their status using documentation including but not limited to school transcripts, student I.D. cards, course schedules, tuition bills, etc.\n\nEdhance did not charge students for being part of the program. It operatedon an entirely pay for performance base with merchants and charged a commission based on student business that Edhance sends to the merchant.\n\nCompanies like Apple, Target, Barnes & Noble, Qdoba, Fuddruckers, Walmart, Reebok, Sephora, The North Face, Toshiba, Puma, Drugstore.com, Adidas and PacSun offer student discounts via Edhance.\n\n"}
{"id": "3660463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660463", "title": "Ethical persuasion", "text": "Ethical persuasion\n\nEthical persuasion is a human being's internal ability to treat others with respect, understanding, caring, and fairness in order to understand themselves and phases of ethical persuasion; they are:\n\n\nThe ethics of rhetoric is mainly concerned with morality and a persons ability to not be tempted in certain instances into helping themselves by negatively impacting others, or just as unethical to use persuasion to increase personal gain without the knowledge of the audience.\n\nAccording to Richard Weaver the main components of a persuasive argument stem from three different argument types.\n"}
{"id": "56923787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56923787", "title": "European Network of Physiotherapy in Higher Education", "text": "European Network of Physiotherapy in Higher Education\n\nThe European Network of Physiotherapy in Higher Education (ENPHE) is a non-profit association of leading physical therapy universities in Europe. ENPHE was set up in February 1995, with headquarters in Utrecht, Netherlands. The main objectives are to provide high quality physical therapy education in Europe and to improve links between association members in research, as well as postgraduate and continuing education.\n\n"}
{"id": "54754262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54754262", "title": "FPCT Tumaini Secondary School", "text": "FPCT Tumaini Secondary School\n\nFPCT Tumaini Secondary School, is the private school located in the Southern part of Tanzania in Katavi region, formerly Rukwa Region.\n\nThe school was established in 2006 by the Free Pentecostal Church of Tanzania under the Manager, archbishop of the Parish Rev. Jonathan Kidebuye. The school now serves large number of population in Tanzania especially people from Lake zone regions: Mwanza, Shinyanga, Bariadi, Kagera, and Mara, central zone regions of Tabora, Dodoma and Singida. It is accommodates a large number of people from the Southern zone Regions of Tanzania. \nThe school is about 31 Kilometers from Katavi capital Town of Mpanda.\n\nThe Motto of the school is Fear for the Lord is the Beginning of the Knowledge (Kumcha Bwana ni chanzo cha Maarifa), the school other than preparing the students academically it as well prepares them spiritually, every student based on his/her religion.\n"}
{"id": "58804418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58804418", "title": "Faculty of Information Technology, Czech Technical University in Prague", "text": "Faculty of Information Technology, Czech Technical University in Prague\n\nFaculty of Information Technology, Czech Technical University in Prague (FIT CTU) was established on the 1st of July, 2009, as the eight and the youngest faculty of Czech Technical University in Prague. The school offers a variety of undergraduate and graduate programmes including doctoral programme. FIT CTU is a member of Informatics Europe, the Association of European Faculties of Informatics.\n\nFIT CTU was established on the 1st of July, 2009 and its first academic year started on the 21st of September, 2009. It was created by splitting of faculty of electrical engineering's computer department. About 500 student's were admitted to the first academic year of the institution. Of these 500 students, about 10% were women and about 20% were international students.\n\nStudents in undergraduate and graduate study programme can choose from variety of majors from Computer Science, Computer Security, Web and Software Engineering to Data Science. Major can be selected throughout the study programme, but it needs to be selected before choosing bachelor's/master's thesis topic.\n\nPeople studying in Czech language study at FIT CTU for free. On the other hand, the tuition fee for people studying in English is 64000 CZK (or 2475 EUR) per semester as of 2018.\n\nDue to the pace and difficulty of FIT's coursework it has the highest first year failure rate out of all faculties at CTU. It has also the lowest acceptance rate (52.32%).\n\nEvery year, FIT CTU organizes many Czech and international events. One of them is international Linux conference LinuxDays. Another event for GNU/Linux operating system enthusiasts co-organized by FIT is InstallFest. Additionally, the biggest meeting of Python community PyCon CZ, law and IT conference LAW FIT or international stringology conference The Prague Stringology Conference takes place on FIT's premises.\n\n"}
{"id": "42619672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42619672", "title": "Gary Cziko", "text": "Gary Cziko\n\nGary Cziko is an American researcher, and author in the field of educational psychology at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign who has worked on the philosophical model known as perceptual control theory (PCT) – a model whose original developer, William T. Powers, was his mentor. He has written two introductory books on the subject, and in 1995 he introduced the concept of \"universal selectionism\" into the PCT model.\n\nCziko received a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology from Queens College, City University of New York, a Master of Arts degree in psychology from McGill University in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, in 1975, and a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) from McGill University in 1978.\nHe was a post-doctoral research fellow for the Quebec Ministry of Education at the University of Montreal during 1978–79. Since 1979, Cziko has been on the faculty of the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. He became an associate professor in 1986 and a full professor in 1998.\n\nIn 1989, Cziko published one of his first academic papers relating to PCT:\nHe has also authored two introductions to PCT, both published by MIT Press:\n\nIn 2008, Cziko was a Fulbright Scholar in Chile.\n"}
{"id": "16340712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16340712", "title": "Giuseppe Ciccimarra", "text": "Giuseppe Ciccimarra\n\nGiuseppe Ciccimarra (22 May 1790 – 5 December 1836) was an Italian tenor, closely associated with Rossini roles.\n\nCiccimarra was born in Altamura. He was considered one of the best comprimario tenors of his time.\n\nFor Rossini, he created, at the Teatro San Carlo in Naples, several roles including: Iago in \"Otello\", Goffredo in \"Armida\", Aronne in \"Mosè in Egitto\", Ernesto in \"Ricciardo e Zoraide\", Pilade in \"Ermione\", Condulmiero in \"Maometto II\".\n\nHe retired from the stage in 1826, and taught voice and piano in Vienna. Among his pupils were Josef Tichatschek, creator of Wagner's \"Rienzi\" and \"Tannhäuser\", the Austrian tenor Heinrich Kreutzer and Sophie Löwe, one of the most famous opera singers of her time. He died in Venice.\n\n"}
{"id": "177530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177530", "title": "Horace Mann", "text": "Horace Mann\n\nHorace Mann (May 4, 1796August 2, 1859) was an American educational reformer and Whig politician dedicated to promoting public education. A central theme of his life was that \"it is the law of our nature to desire happiness. This law is not local, but universal; not temporary, but eternal. It is not a law to be proved by exceptions, for it knows no exception.\" He served in the Massachusetts State legislature (1827–1837). In 1848, after public service as Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education, Mann was elected to the United States House of Representatives (1848–1853). From September 1852 to his death, he served as President of Antioch College.\n\nAbout Mann's intellectual progressivism, the historian Ellwood P. Cubberley said:\n\nArguing that universal public education was the best way to turn unruly American children into disciplined, judicious republican citizens, Mann won widespread approval from modernizers, especially in the Whig Party, for building public schools. Most states adopted a version of the system Mann established in Massachusetts, especially the program for normal schools to train professional teachers. Educational historians credit Horace Mann as father of the Common School Movement.\n\nHorace Mann was born on May 4, 1796 in Franklin, Massachusetts. His father was a farmer without much money. From ten years of age to twenty, he had no more than six weeks' schooling during any year, but he made use of the Franklin Public Library, the first public library in America. At the age of 20, he enrolled at Brown University and graduated in three years as valedictorian (1819). The theme of his oration was \"The Progressive Character of the Human Race.\" He then studied law for a short time in Wrentham, Massachusetts and was a tutor of Latin and Greek (1820–1822) and a librarian (1821–1823) at Brown University. During 1822, he also studied at Litchfield Law School and, in 1823, was admitted to the bar in Dedham, Massachusetts. He learned Greek and Latin from Samuel Barrett (minister), who later became a famous Unitarian Minister.\n\nMann was elected to the legislature in 1827, and in that role was active in the interests of education, public charities, and laws for the suppression of intemperance and lotteries. He established the state lunatic asylum in Worcester, and in 1833 was chairman of its board of trustees. Mann continued to be returned to the legislature as representative from Dedham until his removal to Boston in 1833. While in the legislature he was a member and part of the time chairman of the committee for the revision of the state statutes, and a large number of salutary provisions were incorporated into the code at his suggestion. After their enactment he was appointed one of the editors of the work, and prepared its marginal notes and its references to judicial decisions. He was elected to the Massachusetts State Senate from Boston in 1835, and was its president in 1836–1837. As a member of the Senate, he spent time as the majority leader, and aimed his focus at infrastructure, funding the construction of railroads and canals.\n\nIn 1830, Mann married Charlotte Messer, who was the daughter of the president of Brown University. She died two years later on August 1, 1832, and he never fully recovered from the intense grief and shock that accompanied her death. In 1843, he married Mary Tyler Peabody. Afterward, the couple accompanied Samuel Gridley Howe and Julia Ward Howe on a dual honeymoon to Europe. They then purchased a home in West Newton, MA at the corner of Chestnut and Highland Streets. Horace and Mary had three sons: Horace Mann Jr., George Combe Mann, and Benjamin Pickman Mann.\n\nIt was not until he was appointed secretary in 1837 of the newly created board of education of Massachusetts (the first such position in the United States) that he began the work which was to place him in the foremost rank of American educators. Previously, he had not shown any special interest in education. He was encouraged to take the job only because it was a paid office position established by the legislature. He began as secretary of the board. On entering on his duties, he withdrew from all other professional or business engagements and from politics.\n\nThis led him to become the most prominent national spokesman for that position. He held this position, and worked with a remarkable intensity, holding teachers' conventions, delivering numerous lectures and addresses, carrying on an extensive correspondence, and introducing numerous reforms.\n\nMann traveled to every school in the state so he could physically examine each school ground. He planned and inaugurated the Massachusetts normal school system in Lexington (which shortly thereafter moved to Framingham), Barre (which shortly thereafter moved to Westfield) and Bridgewater, and began preparing a series of annual reports, which had a wide circulation and were considered as being \"among the best expositions, if, indeed, they are not the very best ones, of the practical benefits of a common school education both to the individual and to the state\". By his advocacy of the disuse of corporal punishment in school discipline, he was involved in a controversy with some of the Boston teachers that resulted in the adoption of his views.\n\nIn 1838, he founded and edited \"The Common School Journal\". In this journal, Mann targeted the public school and its problems. His six main principles were: (1) the public should no longer remain ignorant; (2) that such education should be paid for, controlled, and sustained by an interested public; (3) that this education will be best provided in schools that embrace children from a variety of backgrounds; (4) that this education must be non-sectarian; (5) that this education must be taught using the tenets of a free society; and (6) that education should be provided by well-trained, professional teachers. Mann worked for more and better-equipped school houses, longer school years (until 16 years old), higher pay for teachers, and a wider curriculum.\n\nUnder the auspices of the board, but at his own expense, he went to Europe in 1843 to visit schools, especially in Prussia, and his seventh annual report, published after his return, embodied the results of his tour. Many editions of this report were printed, not only in Massachusetts but in other states, in some cases by private individuals and in others by legislatures; several editions were issued in England. In 1852, he supported the decision to adopt the Prussian education system in Massachusetts. Shortly after Massachusetts adopted the Prussian system, the Governor of New York set up the same method in twelve different New York schools on a trial basis.\n\nMann hoped that by bringing all children of all classes together, they could have a common learning experience. This would also give an opportunity to the less fortunate to advance in the social scale and education would \"equalize the conditions of men.\" Moreover, it was viewed also as a road to social advancement by the early labor movement and as a goal of having common schools. Mann also suggested that by having schools it would help those students who did not have appropriate discipline in the home. Building a person's character was just as important as reading, writing and arithmetic. Instilling values such as obedience to authority, promptness in attendance, and organizing the time according to bell ringing helped students prepare for future employment. Mann faced some resistance from parents who did not want to give up the moral education to teachers and bureaucrats. The normal schools trained mostly women, giving them new career opportunities as teachers.\n\nThe practical result of Mann's work was a revolution in the approach used in the common school system of Massachusetts, which in turn influenced the direction of other states. In carrying out his work, Mann met with bitter opposition by some Boston schoolmasters who strongly disapproved of his innovative pedagogical ideas, and by various religious sectarians, who contended against the exclusion of all sectarian instruction from the schools. Mann is often called \"the father of American public education.\"\n\nAs the \"Old Deluder Satan Act\" and other Massachusetts School Laws attest, early education even under state control in Massachusetts had a clear religious intent. However, by the time of Mann's leadership in education, various developments (including a vibrant populist Protestant faith and increased religious diversity) fostered a secular school system with a religiously passive stance.\n\nWhile Mann affirmed that \"our Public Schools are not Theological Seminaries\" and that they were \"debarred by law from inculcating the peculiar and distinctive doctrines of any one religious denomination amongst us ... or all that is essential to religion or to salvation,\" he assured those who objected to this secular nature that \"our system earnestly inculcates all Christian morals; it founds its morals on the basis of religion; it welcomes the religion of the Bible; and, in receiving the Bible, it allows it to do what it is allowed to do in no other system—to speak for itself. But here it stops, not because it claims to have compassed all truth; but because it disclaims to act as an umpire between hostile religious opinions.\"\n\nMann stated that this position resulted in a near-universal use of the Bible in the schools of Massachusetts and that this served as an argument against the assertion by some that Christianity was excluded from his schools, or that they were anti-Christian.\n\nMann also once stated that \"it may not be easy theoretically, to draw the line between those views of religious truth and of Christian faith which is common to all, and may, therefore, with propriety be inculcated in schools, and those which, being peculiar to individual sects, are therefore by law excluded; still it is believed that no practical difficulty occurs in the conduct of our schools in this regard.\"\n\nRather than sanctioning a particular church as was often the norm in many states, the Legislature proscribed books \"calculated to favor the tenets of any particular set of Christians.\n\nIn the spring of 1848 he was elected to the United States Congress as a Whig to fill the vacancy caused by the death of John Quincy Adams. His first speech in that role was in advocacy of its right and duty to exclude slavery from the territories, and in a letter in December of that year he said: \"I think the country is to experience serious times. Interference with slavery will excite civil commotion in the South. But it is best to interfere. Now is the time to see whether the Union is a rope of sand or a band of steel.\" Again he said: \"I consider no evil as great as slavery, and I would pass the Wilmot Proviso whether the South rebel or not.\" During the first session, he volunteered as counsel for Drayton and Sayres, who were indicted for stealing 76 slaves in the District of Columbia, and at the trial was engaged for 21 successive days in their defense. In 1850, he was engaged in a controversy with Daniel Webster in regard to the extension of slavery and the Fugitive Slave Law, calling Webster's support for the Compromise of 1850 a \"vile catastrophe\", and comparing him to \"Lucifer descending from Heaven\". Mann was defeated by a single vote at the ensuing nominating convention by Webster's supporters; but, on appealing to the people as an independent anti-slavery candidate, he was re-elected, serving from April 1848 until March 1853.\n\nIn September 1852, he was nominated for governor of Massachusetts by the Free Soil Party, and the same day was chosen president of the newly established Antioch College at Yellow Springs, Ohio. Failing in the election for governor, he accepted the presidency of the college, in which he continued until his death. There he taught economics, philosophy, and theology; he was popular with students and with lay audiences across the Midwest who attended his lectures promoting public schools. Mann also employed the first woman faculty member to be paid on an equal basis with her male colleagues, Rebecca Pennell, his niece. His commencement message to the class of 1859 was to \"be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for humanity\".\n\nAntioch College was founded by the Christian Connexion which later withdrew its financial support causing the college to struggle for many years with meager financial resources due to sectarian infighting. Mann himself was charged with nonadherence to sectarianism because, previously a Congregationalist by upbringing, he joined the Unitarian Church.\n\nHe collapsed shortly after the 1859 commencement and died that summer. Antioch historian Robert Straker wrote that Mann had been \"crucified by crusading sectarians.\" Ralph Waldo Emerson lamented \"what seems the fatal waste of labor and life at Antioch.\" Mann's wife, who wrote in anguish that \"the blood of martyrdom waters the spot,\" later disinterred his body from Yellow Springs. He is buried in the North Burial Ground in Providence, Rhode Island, next to his first wife, Charlotte Messer Mann. (Charlotte Messer Mann was the daughter of Asa Messer, an early president of Brown University.)\n\nMost historians treat Mann as the most important and beneficial leader of education reform in the antebellum period.\n\nHe has many places, including schools, around the world that are named after him.\n\nHorace Mann grade school St Joseph, Missouri\n\nHorace Mann's statue stands in front of the Massachusetts State House along with that of Daniel Webster.\n\nAt Antioch College a monument carries his quote, which has been recently adopted as the college motto: \"Be Ashamed to Die Until You Have Won Some Victory for Humanity.\"\n\nThe University of Northern Colorado named the gates to their campus in his dedication, a gift of the Class of 1910.\n\nThe Springfield, Illinois-based Illinois Education Association Mutual Insurance Company, was renamed in honor of Mann in 1950 as the Horace Mann Educators Corporation.\n\nThere are a number of school buildings in the United States named after Mann, listed below as follows:\n\nPittsburg State University, in Pittsburg, Kansas, has a building named: Horace Mann School. It currently houses the Student Welcoming Center.\n\nIn Massachusetts, public charter schools that are authorized by local school districts are known as Horace Mann charters.\n\nAmerican educators were fascinated by German educational trends. In 1818, John Griscom gave a favorable report of Prussian education. Beginning in 1830, English translations were made of French philosopher Victor Cousin's work, \"Report on the State of Public Education in Prussia.\" Calvin E. Stowe, Henry Barnard, Horace Mann, George Bancroft and Joseph Cogswell all had a vigorous interest in German education. In 1843, Mann traveled to Germany to investigate how the educational process worked. Upon his return to the United States, he lobbied heavily to have the \"Prussian model\" adopted.\n\nMann persuaded his fellow modernizers, especially those in the Whig Party, to legislate tax-supported elementary public education in their states. Indeed, most northern states adopted one version or another of the system he established in Massachusetts, especially the program for \"normal schools\" to train professional teachers. In 1852, Mann was instrumental in the decision to adopt an Prussian-style education system in Massachusetts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1509165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1509165", "title": "IT University", "text": "IT University\n\nIT University is a joint department between Chalmers University of Technology and the University of Gothenburg in Sweden. This joint venture offers a great scope for cooperation between researchers with different areas of expertise and academic specialties within the field of information technology. \n\nThe programmes offered are based on advanced research and are in a constant state of development. IT University was established in the autumn of 2001. Today it offers programs at both Bachelor's and Master's level, mostly with a focus on applied information technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8162944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8162944", "title": "Illinois Loop", "text": "Illinois Loop\n\nThe Illinois Loop is an organization of parents, teachers, school board members, and others working to restore academic substance and effective teaching methods into schools.\n\nThe Illinois Loop started informally in about 1995, when a group of parents and teachers in the west suburbs of Chicago shared their concerns and opinions about what they perceived as dangerous trends in reading and math instruction in their schools. Using online message boards, and later the Internet, they shared news, tips and discoveries to better prepare for their efforts in their own schools.\nSince then, the Illinois Loop has helped thousands of parents, teachers and school board members better understand the nature, the promise and the risks associated with promoted innovations in education.\n\nToday, hundreds of people receive updates from the Illinois Loop's email news list. Participants include teachers, board members, nationally known education experts, and many parents. While a principal focus is on education in Illinois, much of the group's activities and information is applicable throughout the United States.\n\nAreas of particular concern to the Illinois Loop include expansion of whole language to the detriment of reading skills, adoption by schools of so-called fuzzy math programs instead of mastery-based math programs, reduction of the role of the teacher as an instructor, and overall lessening of substance and factual content in courses such as history, literature, geography, grammar and science.\n\nSome supporters of constructivist approaches in education accuse the Illinois Loop of being a \"conservative political organization\". The group is highly apolitical, does not get involved in political issues, and has leaders and members who are Democrats, Republicans, liberals, conservatives and libertarians. \n\nOther criticisms: \"Illinois Loop does not support the concept of differentiation\" (wrong, it does), \"or changing instruction methods to support the learning style of particular students\" (also wrong, since the Illinois Loop is highly supportive of finding the best environment for individual children).\n\n"}
{"id": "8228402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8228402", "title": "Indian National Chemistry Olympiad", "text": "Indian National Chemistry Olympiad\n\nThe Indian National Chemistry Olympiad (INChO for short) is an Olympiad in Chemistry held in India.\n\nThe theory part of the INChO examination is held in end-January/beginning February of every year. It is conducted by the Indian Association of Chemistry Teachers. School students (usually of standards 11, 12) first need to qualify the National Standard Examination in Chemistry (NSEC) held in November of the preceding year. Among the 30,000+ students who sit for the NSEC, only the top 1% are selected for the INChO.\n\nAbout 35 students are selected from the written examination. A total of 30 students are selected from these to attend the Orientation-Cum-Selection-Camp (OCSC), chemistry, held at HBCSE, Mumbai.\n\nMost of the students qualifying the INChO are those completing their twelfth standard. However, there have been some cases of students qualifying INChO at the end of eleventh, or tenth standard itself.\n\nThe Orientation-Cum-Selection-Camp (OCSC), Chemistry consists of rigorous training and testing in theory and experiment. The top four performers here are selected to represent India in the International Chemistry Olympiad. Before IChO, the selected team undergoes rigorous training in theory and experiment, in a Pre-Departure Training Camp, held in HBCSE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41779766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41779766", "title": "Innogen Institute", "text": "Innogen Institute\n\nThe Innogen Institute is a collaboration between the University of Edinburgh School of Social and Political Sciences and the Open University that explores the social and economic impact of innovation in the life sciences and genomics. It was founded in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "11834381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11834381", "title": "John Ames (writer)", "text": "John Ames (writer)\n\nJohn Ames is an American writer and educator. His works include co-authorship with Renée Richards of two biographies: \"Second Serve: The Renée Richards Story\", which was adapted for television as \"Second Serve\" starring Vanessa Redgrave; and \"No Way Renée: The Second Half of My Notorious Life\". Ames has been on the faculty of Santa Fe Community College, in Gainesville, FL, for more than 30 years, where he is a professor of English.\n\n"}
{"id": "36134268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36134268", "title": "John Breeden", "text": "John Breeden\n\nRev. John Breeden (9 May 1872 –1942) was an English Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Society missionary in the Madras Presidency. He was an educationalist and the founder of St George's Homes, an Orphanage-cum-School for abandoned and deprived children of Eurasians or Anglo-Indians in Kodaikanal, later renamed as The Laidlaw Memorial School, Ketti in the Nilgiris.\n\nBreeden was born on 9 May 1872 to Fredrick Breeden and Jane Breeden at St. Saviour in Surrey, England. He spent his adolescence with his family at Newington, London and finished his primary education at St John’s, Inner London. Having been influenced by the teachings of John Wesley, founder of Methodist Movement, from his early life, he joined Handsworth College, Birmingham and studied for ordination as a Wesleyan Methodist Minister. While studying at Handsworth College, he met James Cooling, who was on sabbatical leave from Madras and was a speaker on the Methodist Circuit; James remained as a mentor of Breeden till his death in Madras in 1915.\n\nIn 1888, he entered the ministry and learnt the Tamil language in London under the guidance of missionaries who had served in India. Having volunteered for service as a missionary in Madras Presidency with Wesleyan Methodist Missionary Society (WMMS), he sailed to India on 30 September 1898. Upon arrival in Madras, he served as a minister in the Wesley Church at Black Town, also known as George Town, Chennai where he preached the sermon \"The Unpardonable Sin\". In 1899, he worked as probationer with the Foreign Missions, active with recording and officiating at Births, Deaths and Marriages at Wesleyan Methodist Church in Perambur. In 1901, he married Frances Cox and served in Madras in the English colonies of the WMMS, referred to as the Madras English circuit, between 1898 and 1911. During this time, he was involved in raising money to build a new church at Egmore called the Egmore Church, the present Wesley Church, Chennai; for this, he visited the homes of European and Eurasian families (or Anglo-Indian), British Raj government servants, and visitors to Madras-both Christian and non-Christians alike. Egmore Church was formally inaugurated on 11 February 1905 by James Cooling, his mentor; Breeden was appointed as its first minister by Cooling.\n\nDuring his furlough in England, he served as missionary lecturer at Richmond Theological College in 1907. After he returned from England to Madras, Breeden devoted most of his time to the cause of education of orphans of European, Eurasians, or Anglo-Indians origin, between 1911 and 1915 as his ministry was the English circuit in Madras, which meant that his flock were the families of British Raj soldiers, civil servants, and Eurasian population; during this time, he founded St. George's Homes an Orphanage, initially at Kodaikanal and later moved to Ketti in Nilgiris—St. George's Homes was subsequently named as Laidlaw Memorial School \n\nHe returned to England in 1921 due to ill-health after missionary service of twenty-three years. In 1937, he published \"He Suffered There\", an ecumenical book. During World War II, he continued to work from St. Stephens House in Westminster which was used to provide relief for those displaced by the bombing of London. At the age of 70, he died in the district of Meriden in the West Midlands, United Kingdom.\n\nBeing a minister in the English circuit of the Wesleyan Mission in Madras, he was more associated and observant of the ostracised and neglected members of the Anglo-Indian community — during those times, European schools in colonial British Raj catered to pure and mixed-race Europeans who retained \"European habits or modes of life\". Anglo-Indians were not accepted in better schools, and indigenous Indians were entirely prohibited - British parents often objected to their children rubbing shoulders with mixed-race students; accordingly, he made their education and accommodation as the central-point of his missionary work in Madras. In 1910, J. Breeden first thought of establishing a home for orphans and destitute children of the Anglo-Indian community, also known as Eurasians — unwanted children of illicit and mixed relationships born out of wedlock - these offspring were of unofficial unions of Europeans (mostly English, Americans and Europeans) on the payroll of the\nBritish East India Company like soldiers and civil servants with Asians or local Indians - these children, usually had no identification with their country of birth — A study conducted in 1879 found that except pure European descent, most of the Anglo-Indians in Bengal, especially Anglo-Indians living in the slums of Calcutta and Madras received no formal education.\n\nIn October 1910, he addressed the Madras Missionary Conference where he made his first appeal for the establishment of St. George's Homes evincing the plight of poor and deprived children. In the conference, he proposed the neglected Eurasians be given an opportunity to emerge from a tangled growth with their European and Indian origins overcoming the neglect and prejudice from both British Raj government policy and European population. He advocated for the support following the model of St. Andrew's Colonial Homes(later renamed to Dr. Graham's Homes), an Orphanage-cum-School, established at Kalimpong by John Anderson Graham, a Scottish missionary. He put forth before the committee that the Anglo-Indian community cannot sustain purely on alms alone, but pleaded for government support too; consequently, a committee was constituted with Breedon as its secretary and his mentor James Cooling as its chairman — James Cooling at that time was the chairman of WMMS Madras district and also the Principal of \"Wesley High School\" in Royapettah. His thoughts on the subject were published in \"Harvest Field\" later in November 1910. As the WMMS role was to oversee only missionary problems and spread fellowship among the various societies, the body stated that it had no power to initiate new work when the committee's resolution was submitted to WMMS; consequently, the missionary conference decided to form a separate organization to work for the realization of its resolution. Hence, St. George's Homes society formed in 1910, had in fact became the foundation of the establishment of the Homes with sincere efforts from John Breeden. For the first committee, then Governor of Madras Arthur Lawley consented to be the President of the Homes with a promise to grant 1000 acres of land in Kodaikanal.\n\nIn 1911, John Anderson Graham visited Madras and spoke about his work in Kalimpong homes influencing many, including Arthur Lawley, the then Governor of Madras and also the President of the committee. St. George’s Homes to be constructed later in Kodaikanal had the same purpose as that of the Kalimpong homes. The committee at its first meeting decided to establish an institution for European and Eurasian orphans in Kodaikanal on the lines of Dr. Graham's Homes in Kalimpong. During this meeting, it was decided to send John Breeden to work in Great Britain soliciting funds for \"European and Eurasian Education Fund\" to raise necessary funds for St. George's Homes. As part of collecting funds for St. George's Homes and other educational institutions for Anglo-Indians, \"European and Eurasian Education Fund\" was formed with its own National Council, in January 1911. The aim of this is to send a delegation to England and solicit the funds on name of orphans.\n\nIn April 1911, a delegation of the All India Central Committee led by W.H. Arden-Wood, Principal of La Martiniere, Calcutta and a Fellow of Calcutta University, representing all the Christian communities of the British Raj except Roman Catholics went to England to portray the plight of domiciled Anglo-Indian communities with respect to their education and collect funds. John Breeden was one among the five delegates who visited England.\n\nIn May 1911, as part of fundraising efforts through donations for \"European and Eurasian Education Fund\" with Breeden as its Organising secretary, they published their appeals in major journals like The Times (in London). Breeden, who was prominent in advocacy for the collection of funds wrote an appeal in \"The Child\", a monthly journal devoted to Child \nwelfare, in October 1912 as:\n\nThe fund raising delegation and the All Indian Central Committee in which John Breeden was a member, was recognized by Buckingham Palace and the work of fund raising efforts continued till December 1913. In 1913, Breeden along with Capel Wolseley established Lancashire Committee to solicit funds in the mid counties of the United Kingdom. Breeden finally reverted to Madras in 1913 and started his preparation for the establishment of St. George's Homes. Breeden succeeded in raising nearly 7,000 British pounds for initial buildings for the Homes. By February 1914, 10,000 British pounds was raised.\n\nSt. George's Homes was registered under \"Act XXI of 1860\" in February 1914. British Raj government reserved 600 acres of land for the Homes in Pulney Hills, Kodaikanal. John Sinclair, then-Governor of Madras, as the first President of the St. George's Homes turned the first sod on the site for Homes on 17[18] February 1914. Homes first Vice-president was bishop of Madras, and John Breeden was appointed as its first Secretary and the Principal of St. George's Homes. Harold Stuart, a Civil servant, was elected as the first chairman of the board of Homes. In May 1914, first two orphan children were admitted in a rented cottage triggering the start of the activities of the new school for Homes. In November 1914, additional cottages were rented out for accommodation of girls and babies. On 25 November 1914, first school teacher from England joined the Homes. In its first year of inception, the school grew to twenty-one boys and twelve girls, including seven babies. In 1922, St. George's Homes was moved from Kodaikanal to Ketti of Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu, after John Breeden left to England in 1921 due to ill-health that forced him to retire.\n\nG. F. Paddison, then-Collector of Madras, speaking on the occasion of first year of St. George's Homes described John Breeden as a \"great beggar.\" He also said, as reported in Madras Mail on 8 June 1915:\nHe compared the work of John Breeden on behalf of St. George's Homes and the \"European Education Fund\" as qualifying him to be recognized as \"the best beggar in the Madras Presidency.\" Adding further, he also said \"... Mendicancy of this nature is a holy gift applied to holy cause ... will see St Georges Homes expand and succeed ...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6013804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6013804", "title": "Kiriri Women's University of Science and Technology", "text": "Kiriri Women's University of Science and Technology\n\nKiriri Women's University of Science and Technology, often referred to as KWUST, is a non-state funded secular women's university in Nairobi, Kenya. Its aim is to empower women in sciences. Kiriri Women's University is the only women's university in east and southern Africa.\n\nIt offers B.Science degrees in mathematics (actuarial, pure, statistics), computer science and business administration, as well as diplomas and certificates.\n\nAdmission is in May and September every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "20528261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20528261", "title": "List of proposed etymologies of OK", "text": "List of proposed etymologies of OK\n\nThis is a list of etymologies proposed for the word \"OK\" or \"okay\". The majority can be easily classified as false etymologies, or possibly folk etymologies. H. L. Mencken, in \"The American Language\", lists serious candidates and \"a few of the more picturesque or preposterous\". Allen Walker Read surveyed a variety of explanations in a 1964 article titled \"The Folklore of \"O. K.\"\" Eric Partridge described O.K. as \"an evergreen of the correspondence column.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58418285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58418285", "title": "Luca de Samuele Cagnazzi", "text": "Luca de Samuele Cagnazzi\n\nLuca de Samuele Cagnazzi (28 October 1764 – 26 September 1852) was an Italian archdeacon, scientist, mathematician, political economist. He also wrote a few books about pedagogy and he invented the tonograph.\n\nHe taught mathematics and physics in the ancient University of Altamura under the rectorship of Msgr. Gioacchino de Gemmis. In 1799 he first moved to Florence where he worked as a teacher and then he moved to the University of Naples Federico II where he became a professor of statistics and of economics, and a member of the Royal Society of Encouragement to Natural Sciences of Naples.\n\nHe also became head of the Office of Statistics and Trade of the Kingdom of Naples, under Joachim Murat's rule, and he kept that position until 1821. He was a frequent contributor to \"\", of which he was also editor for a short time. In 1848, at age of 84, he was elected member of the newly born Parliament of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies; he was involved in the riots of Naples on 15 May 1848 and, because of this, he ended up under trial in Naples. He died in 1852, aged 88, during a trial session.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31617035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31617035", "title": "Mandhu College", "text": "Mandhu College\n\nMandhu College (formerly Mandhu Learning Centre) is a private college providing Higher Education in the Maldives. Mandhu College collaborates with universities in UK and Australia to provide accredited tertiary courses locally.\n\nThe Mandhu Learning Centre was established in 1998, and later inaugurated as the Mandhu College in December 2009. The courses taught at Mandhu College are accredited by the Maldives Qualifications Authority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36684449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36684449", "title": "Martin Petzold", "text": "Martin Petzold\n\nMartin Petzold (born 1955) is a German classical tenor who performs in opera and in concert. A former member of the Thomanerchor, he is particularly known for the part of the Evangelist in oratorios and Passions of Johann Sebastian Bach.\n\nPetzold was born in Leipzig, the son of the theologian Ernst Petzold. He received his first musical education as a member of the Thomanerchor, where he was a member from 1965 to 1974, at the same time as Georg Christoph Biller. His father, his brother and later his son Jakob were also choir members.\n\nAs Petzold initially refused to join the army, the East German authorities denied him the right to study music. He served for 18 months and then studied voice from 1979 to 1985 at the University of Music and Theatre Leipzig with Eva Schubert and Bernd Siegfried Weber. He wanted to sing in an opera chorus, but while still a student was engaged as a soloist in Halberstadt and Altenburg. In 1985 he became a member of the Landestheater Halle. He appeared regularly at the Leipzig Opera from 1986, and has been a permanent member of the ensemble since 1988. He has sung the parts of David in Wagner's \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\", Pedrillo in Mozart's \"Die Entführung aus dem Serail\", Toni in Henze's \"Elegie für junge Liebende\", Flaut in \"Ein Sommernachtstraum\" and Iwan in Shostakovich's \"Die Nase\", among others.\n\nIn concert, Petzold has collaborated with major orchestras and choirs, such as the Thomanerchor, the Dresdner Kreuzchor, the Monteverdi-Chor Hamburg, the Gewandhausorchester, the MDR Symphony Orchestra and the Freiburg Baroque Orchestra. A particular focus of his work is works by Johann Sebastian Bach; he has sung the part of the Evangelist in his \"Christmas Oratorio\" and \"Passions\", conducted by Biller, Peter Schreier, Kurt Masur, Roderich Kreile, Rolf Schweizer and David Timm. Petzold also works for the preservation of German folk songs.\n\nIn teaching, Martin Petzold has worked since 2002 as a lecturer at international master classes and is also a vocal coach of the Thomanerchor. In 2001, Martin Petzold was appointed Kammersänger. \n\n"}
{"id": "50927692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50927692", "title": "Mësonjëtorja", "text": "Mësonjëtorja\n\nMësonjëtorja or The Albanian School was the first secular school in the Albanian language within Ottoman Albania. It was opened in Korçë during the late Ottoman period. The school building serves as a museum and is located on the north side of \"Bulevardi Shën Gjergji\" (St. George Boulevard).\n\nThe opening of the school was a result of the Albanian National Movement which aimed to create an independent Albania and to secure denied rights to Albanian people within the Ottoman Empire. Among others Mësonjëtorja was an important center of cultural and patriotic education. The school's importance was raised because until then giving lessons in the Albanian language was done in private and secret due to Ottoman rule. The school opened its doors on 7 March 1887 and since then the day is celebrated by Albanians as the \"Day of Teachers\". \n\nIn 1885, Naim Frashëri, a government civil servant in the education ministry, Sami Frashëri and along with other influential Albanians involved in the Society for the Publication of Albanian Writings managed to get permission from the sultan for the opening of a private Albanian boys elementary school in Korçë. Financial support for the school came from a diaspora organisation Drita (), an Albanian society based in Bucharest, while Albanians from Istanbul got Pandeli Sotiri to become its first school director. Both the Society for Albanian Writings and Drita had agreed in past times not to antagonize town notables who were under Greek cultural influence by founding Albanian schools. As such Drita sent one of its members Thimi Marko, a town native on a mission to discuss the matter and he met with the Orthodox Metropolitan and his council (demogerontia) in Korçë. The Constantinople Patriarchate refused have Albanian taught within existing Greek schools belonging to the Korçë Orthodox community. Pandeli Sotiri was sent to Korçë and opened the school on 7 March 1887. Due to a lack of education material Sami, his brother Naim Frashëri and several other Albanians wrote textbooks in the Albanian language for the school. During 1887, Pandeli Sotiri had to leave Korçë and administration of the school passed to Petro Nini Luarasi, a revolutionary and Thanas Sina. The Ottoman authorities gave permission only for Christian children to be educated in Albanian, but the Albanians did not follow this restriction and allowed Muslim children to attend. In the first few years, the school overall had some two hundred enrolled students of Muslim and Christian faiths. By 1888, the elementary school had 100 Christian and 60 Muslim students. \nLocal pressure against parents sending their children to the school grew. The Constantinople Patriarchate was opposed the school's establishment and along with mainly Greek clerics both were concerned that the development of a national consciousness among Orthodox Albanians could lead to the creation of an Orthodox Albanian church. As such from its founding the metropolitan and Orthodox notables intensified attacks against the school, while the school was denounced as subversive to Orthodox unity by local Greek priests. The Orthodox church threatened excommunication and forced parents to remove their children from attending the school resulting in a drastic drop of student numbers. During the same time Muslims were discouraged from enrollment and forced by the local Ottoman administration to withdraw attending the school as they feared that an Albanian national renaissance might eventuate in revolutionary activity. Over time due to pressure coming from both sides school enrollment went down to eighty students. \n\nDuring the school's existence, the organisation Drita (later renamed as Dituria) and the Albanian Society of Istanbul viewed as one of their aims being to support the elementary school in Korçë. Financial difficulties however plagued the school as Albanians could not raise the needed funds to support it. The pro-Patriarchate party in Korçë falsely accused Albanians involved with the school of raising funds for Komita guerilla bands against Ottoman rule. Support came from the people and school managed to survive for fifteen years. Nuçi Naçi, had become the new director of the school and had managed to get support from the Turkish governor general based in Monastir (modern Bitola). A translated version of Sami's play \"Besa yahut Ahde Vefa\" (Pledge of Honour or Loyalty to an Oath) in Albanian celebrating an Albanian identity also became part of the school curriculum in 1901. After a visit (1902) to Bucharest, Idhomene Kosturi told Albanians in Korçë that the main concern of Dituria was to improve the boys school through student attainment of higher grades, selecting better teachers and introducing new subjects. The mistrust of Christians by the sultan increased who thought that Albanian education could contribute to the concept of Albanian unity and nationality open to exploitation by foreign interests. Abdul Hamid II ordered the school closed down in 1902. Mehmed Ali Pasha Delvina, the new Ottoman governor of Korçë supported the empire, was against Albanian nationalism and in 1902 Nuçi Naçi was arrested and incarcerated in Salonica. The school had survived until 1902 under the teachers Leonidis and Naum Naça who were arrested and declared as traitors by Ottoman authorities at the request of Greek clergy with the school being closed down, vandalised and wrecked.\n\nAlbanian efforts for an Albanian school are represented in Greek sources as a failure due to weak demand and limited funding, but Michael Palairet notes that Greek interference undermined the school.\n\n"}
{"id": "5057369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5057369", "title": "Olive Rush", "text": "Olive Rush\n\nOlive Rush (June 10, 1873 near Fairmount, Indiana – August 20, 1966 in Santa Fe, New Mexico) was an illustrator, muralist, and an important pioneer in Native American art education.\n\nToday her paintings are held in a number of private collections and museums, including the Haan Mansion Museum of Indiana Art.\n\nRaised as a Quaker, Olive Rush studied at Earlham College, the art school associated with the Corcoran Gallery of Art and at the Art Students League before becoming an illustrator in New York. She was well known for her portraits and paintings of children and women, many of which were featured in magazines such as \"Woman's Home Companion\" and \"St. Nicholas\". In 1904 she moved to Wilmington, Delaware, to study with Howard Pyle, and she stayed until 1910. She spent the next year in Europe studying British and French painters, and finished her art education at the Boston Museum School in 1912. In 1913 Rush returned to Europe with her friend, the watercolorist Alice Schille, visiting Belgium and France.\n\nIn 1914 Rush, with her father, visited New Mexico and Arizona, and she had a one-person exhibition at the Palace of the Governors in Santa Fe. She made several visits to New Mexico over the next couple of years and moved permanently to Santa Fe in 1920. Despite the relative isolation of Santa Fe, Rush continued to contribute to national and international shows over the next thirty years, which activity culminated in a retrospective at the Museum of New Mexico Art Gallery in 1957.\n\nHer former studio on Canyon Road in Santa Fe is now the home to the Santa Fe Quaker Meeting, as well as having guest house facilities available on the site.\n\nRush considered her major influences to be early Chinese art, Japanese art, and El Greco. She was also inspired by the colorful style of Hopi and other Puebloan artists of the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nMurals were produced from 1934 to 1943 in the United States through the Section of Painting and Sculpture, later called the Section of Fine Arts, of the Treasury Department. The murals were intended to boost the morale of the American people from the effects of the Depression by depicting uplifting subjects. Almost 850 artists were commissioned to paint 1371 murals, most of which were installed in post offices, libraries, and other public buildings. 162 of the artists were women. The murals were funded as a part of the cost of the construction with 1% of the cost set aside for artistic enhancements.\n\nOlive Rush was commissioned by the Section of Fine Arts to complete painted murals for several public buildings in the American West. In Santa Fe, New Mexico she completed \"The Library Reaches the People\", a fresco at the public library (now part of the New Mexico History Museum), as well as at the hotel La Fonda. In Pawhuska, Oklahoma she completed an oil on canvas mural, \"Osage Treaties\" for the post office. In Florence, Colorado she painted \"Antelope\" for the post office. Lastly, she completed two frescos, \"Cotton Industry and Farming\" and \"Natural History of Plant and Animal Life\" for the Foster Hall Biology Building at New Mexico State University. Also, her mural for the Maisel's Trading Post on Central in Albuquerque is still in place. She taught mural painting to students at the Santa Fe Indian School, which is now the Institute of American Indian Arts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25338666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25338666", "title": "Peter Rose (architect)", "text": "Peter Rose (architect)\n\nPeter Rose, is an architect and educator from Montreal, Quebec, Canada. He is the principal of Peter Rose + Partners, an architectural practice based in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nRose's best-known work in Canada is the Canadian Centre for Architecture (CCA), which was designed by Rose with CCA founder Phyllis Lambert as consulting architect and Erol Argun as associate architect. Completed in 1989, the CCA received the Honor Award for Architecture from the American Institute of Architects and the Governor General's Medals in Architecture in 1992.\n\nRose founded the Alcan Lectures in Architecture, which ran from 1974 to 1992. This lecture series sponsored by Alcan Aluminium Limited brought architects, architectural historians and planners to the city. Rose's association with Alcan also included interior planning and design with Peter Lanken on the company's world headquarters Maison Alcan on Sherbrooke Street, which preserved a row of historic buildings in city's Golden Square Mile district.\n\nIn collaboration with Aurèle Cardinal, Rose designed the plans for the redevelopment of the Old Port of Montreal in the early 90s.\n\nAfter studying architecture at Yale University, where he worked under Vincent Scully and Charles Moore, Rose returned to Montreal, designing Postmodern vacation houses in the Eastern Townships and Laurentian regions. He is noted for his residential designs for homes in western New England, including several vacation cottages in northern Vermont and individual houses in Sharon, Connecticut and Stowe, Vermont. His design for the house in Stowe was selected as one of \"Architectural Record\"'s Record Houses in 1998. The \"New York Times\" featured his renovation of a townhouse for Edgar Bronfman, Jr. in Manhattan in September 1999.\n\nIn 2010, construction was completed on Rose's design for a dormitory at the Kripalu Center for Yoga and Health in Stockbridge, Massachusetts.\n\nRose is adjunct professor of Architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design and has taught at Princeton University, McGill University and the University of Toronto. He is the author of \"Peter Rose: Houses\", published by Princeton Architectural Press.\n"}
{"id": "21452479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21452479", "title": "Pracademic", "text": "Pracademic\n\nA pracademic is someone who is both an academic and an active practitioner in their subject area. \n\nThe term has a history of at least 30 years, but its first coining is unclear. The earliest reference may have been identified by a subscriber to Worldwide Words as being 1973. \n\nIn his 2001 Article 'The Life and Times of Pracademics', Paul L Posner discusses the term pracademic. Since Posner's article many academics have used the term in journals and elsewhere. In 2001 Maria R Volpe and David Chandler in their paper in Negotiation Journal describe the bridging role as that of the 'Pracademic'. Again in 2001 Willard T. Price uses the term in the same context of academic and practicing professional in Public Works. George L Hanbury builds on the term in his paper on the ethics of honor by describing himself as a Pracademic and observing his subject from this stand point.\n\nAlthough the core bridging concept appears to be the main theme several other usages have emerged. The idea of the Pracademic being a type of teaching style for Entrepreneurs has appeared in several places. A pracademic degree for instance describes the case of a new degree in the UK that is taught by practitioners to students who want to be entrepreneurs. However this use of the term remains close to the main definition of bridging the academic and practical professional world. Additionally many academics now describe themselves as Pracademics on their web sites and this use of the term aligns well with definition set out here. There may be other uses of the term.\n\nIn 2000 the term was used to describe Ross James, who conceptualised the Transitional Learning Model following extensive research for his doctoral dissertation. The model integrated learning and cross-cultural theories into a practical model to help workplace trainers design and deliver training. The model has been applied in a wide range of workplace settings. Health Communication Resources has used the model in its extensive international delivery of resources for training learner-centred trainers in international radio broadcast networks.\nThe term was first used in relation to the UK resilience community at the inaugural conference of the Institute of Civil Protection and Emergency Management (April 2009). Peter Simpson from the London Fire Brigade, who undertook a Master’s programme at Leicester University as a mature student, described people like himself and others in the resilience community as ‘pracademics’ and showed delegates the ‘Pracademic Curve’, which clearly illustrated the inter-relationship between the practitioner and academic communities, particularly as it affects those who go into academia having already embarked on a career as a practitioner.\n\nIn 2008, the term was introduced in the Criminal Justice education arena, with a paper and presentation entitled The Pracademic and Academic in Criminal Justice Education at the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences by Stephen A. Morreale of Worcester State University and James E. McCabe of Sacred Heart University. The paper focuses on the benefit of blending faculty that represent both the academic and pracademic perspectives, for the benefit of both the academic department and Criminal Justice students. \n\nMany designers also have started taking interest in this term lately in their theories, research as well as practice. In 2008, Ahmedabad based architectural firm has named their office as studio prAcademics. Studio is led by Tejas Kathiriya providing architecture, interior design and urban design services. They are involved in merging the design theories with professional practice and vice versa.\n\nIn 2013, the term was introduced to the field of teacher education as well. Writing about teacher education practices in general, and teacher education in the Teaching of English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) in particular, Jain theorized about the relevance of the term to the lives of those who work on the intersections of practice and research. Jain used the term 'pracademic' to (re)imagine her professional identity as that comprising a coherent, albeit hybridized, unity--that of a practitioner as well as an academic. \n"}
{"id": "39225521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39225521", "title": "Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies", "text": "Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies\n\nThe Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies (PIAAC) is a worldwide study by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 24 countries of cognitive and workplace skills. The main aim is to be able to assess the skills of literacy, numeracy and problem solving in technology-rich\nenvironments, and use the collected information to help countries develop ways to further improve these skills. The focus is on the working-age population (between the ages of 16 and 65). The first data was released on October 8, 2013.\n\nSince the early 1990s the need for assessing literary skills in developed countries has been addressed by two large international surveys. The first was the International Adult Literacy Survey (IALS) which was\nimplemented in 1994, 1996, and 1998. The second was the International Adult Literacy and Life Skills Survey carried out in 2003, and between 2006 and 2008.\n\nThree central basic skills are assessed in PIAAC: literacy, numeracy and problem solving in technology-rich environments.\n\nLiteracy encompasses the ability to understand, use and interpret written texts. Literacy is a prerequisite for developing one’s knowledge and potential and participating in society. The literacy domain in PIAAC includes tasks such as reading and understanding a drug label or a brief newspaper article. In addition, there are tasks that involve digital media, such as reading an online job posting.\n\nNumeracy refers to the ability to access, use and interpret everyday mathematical information in order to manage mathematical demands in daily life. This is measured, for example, with items involving the evaluation of a special offer or the interpretation of numerical information in figures and tables.\n\nPIAAC is the first international survey to implement problem solving in technology-rich environments (ICT). This key skill is defined as the ability to successfully use digital technologies, communication tools and networks to search for, communicate and interpret information. The first wave of PIAAC focuses on how persons access and make use of information in a computer-based environment. Items include sorting and sending e-mails, filling out digital forms, and evaluating the informational content and credibility of different websites.\n\nPIAAC was initiated by the OECD member states in 2008 and, like PISA, it is designed as a multi-cycle programme. Round 1 took place in 2008-13 (main study in 2011), supplementary Round 2 in 2012-16, and Round 3 in 2014-18 (main study in 2016-17). Subsequent cycles will allow future changes in adult skills to be monitored and analysed and will provide first indications of where improvements have been achieved and deficits persist. Twenty-four countries participated in PIAAC Round I. Nine additional countries also expressed interest in participating in PIAAC. At least 5 000 randomly selected respondents between the ages of 16 and 65 were interviewed and assessed in each participating country. The survey was carried out as a personal interview comprising a questionnaire followed by a skills assessment, a computer- or paper-based version of which was independently completed by the respondent in the presence of the interviewer; the entire interview (including the assessment) took between 1 1/2 and 2 hours to administer.\n\nThe results were published in 2013, together with summaries in 25 languages.\n\nNotes: \n\n\nFor details of the numeracy and ICT tests see .\n\nProgramme for International Student Assessment\n\n"}
{"id": "53715889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53715889", "title": "Qualifications framework", "text": "Qualifications framework\n\nA qualifications framework is a formalized structure in which learning level descriptors and qualifications are used in order to understand learning outcomes. This allows for the ability to develop, assess and improve quality education in a number of contexts. Qualifications frameworks are typically found at the National, Regional, and International level.\n\nThe origin of qualification structures can be traced back to organized education in antique civilizations such as Greece, Sparta, Rome and China. As no specialized career structure existed in these cultures, organized education focused on broad issues of international citizenship, and not on vocational preparedness, which was achieved mainly through informal apprenticeships. As civilizations developed, the role of social class and caste received more emphasis, and people who displayed certain competences were grouped together. The advantage of having participated in and benefited from education gradually became more visible as civilizations developed. In this respect the Chinese civilization was the most organized, with a series of levels attached to examinations, which in turn granted the right of access to public office. During the Middle Ages education had a particularly religious nature, while the late medieval centuries were categorized by a new approach to education alongside the clergy and feudal knighthood. New economic objectives as a result of the Crusades and the development of banking, importing and shipping across Europe and the West gave rise to the development of cities, and a new form of education aimed at professional life. Education became available to the middle classes, and the merchant and craft guild system developed.\n\nThe first institutions of formal higher education were established at this time in the Islamic universities of Al-Azhar in Cairo and Sankore in Timbuktu. By the eleventh century, universities were developing in Europe, largely in reaction to the previous narrow religious doctrine. The establishment of the University of Bologna marked the beginning of the European university tradition. This was also the time when the term 'qualification' acquired a more definite meaning, although it retained its emphasis on social class structures. The nineteenth century brought with it a wave of liberalism and consciousness of equal rights and opportunities, accompanied by increased specialization and bureaucratization. The increased need for skilled employees eventually resulted in an emphasis on credentials which persists to the present day. During the twentieth century the emphasis shifted to human capital theory and technological development, eventually leading to concerns whether the education system was able to meet the demands of the labour market. At the time it was argued that the strong divisions were creating barriers to learning, and that there was a need to do away with the sharp distinction between academic and vocational systems.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, and strongly influenced by the thinking on integration but also by a focus on vocational training through a competency approach, the notion of a National Qualification Frameworks (NQF) emerged in the United Kingdom. Its roots lay in the competence approach to vocational education which was broadened by Jessup, as well as the Scottish Action Plan which led to the modularization of vocational education and training in Scotland. The idea developed that all qualifications could be expressed in terms of outcomes without prescribing learning pathways or programmes. Within this politically charged melting pot of factors, and a renewed emphasis on the importance of lifelong learning, the first NQFs were established in Australia, England, Scotland, New Zealand, Ireland and South Africa between 1989 and 1995. France, as a country with a different, notably non-Anglo Saxon tradition, was also a member of this group of first-generation NQFs (Bouder, 2003; Keevy et al., 2011). In the case of France, the NQF drew on a hierarchy of qualifications that found official expression at the end of 1960s in a nomenclature which tried to rationalize the number of students leaving the education and training system to correspond with the needs of the labour market.\n\nAcross the first-generation countries, NQFs were conceptualized as hierarchical classifications of levels of formal learning programmes and their associated qualifications and certificates. Integral features of NQFs included new quality assurance and standards-setting regimes based on learning outcomes, and importantly for this study, level descriptors which are used to determine the level at which a qualification should be pegged. \n\nAll qualifications frameworks are learning outcomes-based. In qualifications frameworks, qualifications are developed using learning outcomes, and the set of hierarchical levels they consist of are described with a set of learning level descriptors.\n\nQualifications frameworks emerged from two complementary education and training discourses in the late 1980s: the competence approach to vocational education, and the shift to learning outcomes, embedded within the broader concept of lifelong learning. As a result, the interrelationship between competences and learning outcomes was not only firmly embedded in qualifications framework thinking from the very outset, but was also used in a hybridized form.  \n\nA National Qualifications Framework (NQF) addresses the educational quality concerns of specific countries. Some examples include:\n\nA Regional Qualifications Framework (RQF) focuses specifically on qualifications at the regional level. Some examples include:\n\nThe purpose of the world reference levels lies mainly in their potential to provide a neutral and independent reference point against which a level of learning can be assessed.\n\nThe idea of a set of world reference levels was considered in May 2012, during the Third International Congress on TVET, held in Shanghai, China. The research included in this report was initiated by UNESCO based on the recommendation from the Congress to the UNESCO Director-General to undertake this work. The UNESCO TVET Section, in cooperation with the European Commission's Directorate General for Education and Culture and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP), subsequently invited key organizations in Brussels to deliberate on the Shanghai Consensus Recommendation in September 2013. The deliberations included regional developments in Europe, notably the European Qualifications Framework (EQF) and in Asia, notably a common standard for competences developed by the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), as well as the move towards regional qualifications frameworks (RQFs) in Central America and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). At the national level, the development of national qualifications frameworks (NQFs) was considered across and beyond these regions, including Mercosur (Mercado Común del Sur, the Common Market of the South) in South America and the development of a transnational qualifications framework (TQF) by twenty-nine small states of the Commonwealth. The additional dimension of learning metrics as used in longitudinal studies, international competence assessments and diagnostics reviews was also considered.\n\nThe Brussels deliberations concluded that the mobility of people (both learners and workers, including migrant workers) and jobs (including outsourcing and offshoring) constitutes an important driver for the world reference levels emanating from the Shanghai Consensus Recommendation. It was noted that jobs are not always matched to demands during these movements, because of demographic shifts and the differential capacities of economies to create jobs. The cross-border provision of education and training, as well as the technological developments resulting in increased open and distance learning, and online learning, were also identified as important drivers towards world reference levels. Another important driver identified in the Brussels deliberations was the need for international dialogue, cooperation and capacity-building in the field of the recognition of qualifications.\n\nSectoral qualifications frameworks are developed within a specific country and with a specific sectoral focus. Examples include: \n\nTransnational qualifications frameworks are developed across a range of countries. Where these countries are in the same geographical proximity they are referred to as regional qualifications frameworks (examples include the SADC RQF and the EQF). Transnational qualifications frameworks can also be developed across countries that are not in the same geographic proximity. \n\nThe E-xcellence framework was developed by the European Association of Distance Teaching Universities (EADTU). It is an instrument for benchmarking the quality of online, open and flexible education at programme, faculty and institutional levels. The framework defines requirements (called \"benchmarks\") for the entire process, from curriculum design to delivery, including the management and support of online and blended learning.\n\nThe OpenupEd quality label is derived from the E-xcellence framework. Ossiannilsson and colleagues identified this framework as useful for certification and benchmarking. The label describes a self-assessment and review Quality Assurance (QA) process for the MOOCs (Massive open online courses) in the European OpenupEd partnership, but the OpenupEd framework can be used for the QA of any MOOC. The benchmarks statements in this label, derived from benchmarks produced by the E-xcellence framework, are divided into two groups: those that apply at the institutional level and those for individual courses (MOOCs).\n\nLearning level descriptors are essential elements in Qualifications Frameworks. Learning Level descriptors are statements that provide a broad indication of learning appropriate to attainment at a particular level, describing the characteristics and context of learning expected at that level. They are designed to support the reviewing of specified learning outcomes and assessment criteria in order to develop particular modules and units and to assign credits at the appropriate level.\n\nA learning outcome is a measurable result of a learning experience which allows us to ascertain to which extent / level / standard a competence has been formed or enhanced. Learning outcomes can be used to describe many things, including knowledge, skills and competences (KSC), in the context of qualifications frameworks. Learning outcomes are increasingly being used in global context 'as a dynamic tool for modernisation and reform'. The key mechanism through which the learning outcomes approach is being implemented is qualifications frameworks, but there are also others, such as within curriculum reform on both national and international levels. The Tuning Project, which started in 2000, stands out as a good example of the introduction of learning outcomes outside of, but nonetheless related to, qualifications frameworks. Learning outcomes are used in the formulation of qualifications, and also in the formulation of level descriptors.\n\nDefinitions of the concept of learning outcomes vary across contexts, although some common elements can be identified. Here are several definitions. Learning outcomes...\nFrom a review of the interpretation of learning outcomes it is evident that learning outcomes are understood to be statements that describe mainly three major domains: knowledge (learning to know), skills (learning to do) and competences (learning to be).\n\nThe interrelationship between learning outcomes and competences is best illustrated in qualifications frameworks. While learning outcomes often describe competences, competences can also be stand alone. Competences represent a dynamic combination of cognitive and meta-cognitive skills, demonstration of knowledge and understanding, interpersonal, intellectual and practical skills, and ethical values. \n"}
{"id": "22315803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22315803", "title": "REPLAY (software)", "text": "REPLAY (software)\n\nREPLAY is a management system for audiovisual content developed at ETH Zurich.\n\nREPLAY was developed as the future Multimedia Portal of ETH Zurich within the scope of the ICT strategy 2006–2009 and got branded „REPLAY“ in 2007. It is to manage the audiovisual content of ETH Zurich from production to distribution in an automated manner.\n\nThe main focus of REPLAY is the quasi-automated handling of large number of lecture recordings (>150 per week) and to provide an integrated management solution for other video objects (films, digitization results etc.). Thus, it covers all the audiovisual material usually to be found in academic and other institutions (museums, companies etc.). \n\nREPLAY covers the complete lifecycle of the audiovisual objects: In the classroom / lecture hall, the Linux-based Playmobil as an additional hardware component automatically captures audio, video, and VGA (for slides/presentations/computer display/other devices). After the lecture, these sources are bundled with metadata and proceeded into the REPLAY backend. Other video material can be ingested through an inbox.\n\nAll bundles are then:\nOne of the distribution channels is Interplay, a user interface designed for interactive consumption of video.\n\nREPLAY is written in Java, open source and oriented towards standards wherever possible. It is modular in design and envisaged to run on a singular machine as well as in a distributed environment.\n\nREPLAY is open source under GNU LGPL license version 2. \n\nDevelopment website. Replay has been developed towards release 0.7 (March 2009); as of June 2009 the project has ended and support was suspended by the end of 2009. Efforts around REPLAY and its technology are being transferred to the Opencast Matterhorn project.\n\n"}
{"id": "16169349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16169349", "title": "Renren", "text": "Renren\n\nThe Renren Network (), formerly known as the Xiaonei Network () is a Chinese social networking service similar to Facebook. It is popular among college students. In February 2011, Renren made a pre-IPO announcement that it had 160 million registered users. Later, in April 2011, it had to update its statement accurately to \"a total of 31 million active monthly users.\" Renren Inc. has its headquarters in Chaoyang District, Beijing. Renren also has offices in Shanghai and Guangzhou.\n\nRenren, which started as Xiaonei.com, was founded by a group of students, including Wang Xing, Wang Huiwen and Lai Binqiang at Tsinghua University and Tianjin University in December 2005. Joseph Chen, who had himself tried to launch a student community website called ChinaRen as early as 1999 and sold it in 2000, acquired Xiaonei through his new company Oak Pacific in October 2006.\n\nBorn in 1970 in China, Chen moved with his family to the US where he studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and later earned an MBA from Stanford University. He remains the chairman and CEO.[6]\n\nIn March 2008, Xiaonei launched its WAP version, which users can access through mobile phones.[7] Xiaonei features an instant messaging service (Rénrénzhuōmiàn, Chinese: 人人桌面) designed typically for its users using XMPP, which is more popular than Facebook chat.[8]\n\nIn August 2009, Xiaonei officially changed its name to Renren, as well as its domain to www.renren.com. And also, the logo has changed from the Chinese word \"xiaonei\" to the Chinese word \"renren\"(\"ren\", meaning \"people\" or \"person\", and \"everyone\" when used twice in a row). This name change from 'inside the school' (Xiaonei 校内) to 'everybody' (renren 人人) reflected the expansion aspirations held by Oak Pacific – to be more than a network dedicated to students, but instead be the biggest Chinese social network website.[9]\n\nIn April 2011, the company filed with the SEC to raise $584 million in a US IPO,[5] offering Renren stock on the New York Stock Exchange. The company reported 2010 revenue of $76 million USD.[10]\n\nAt the beginning of creating \"renren.com\", users were only able to use specific IP address from specified colleges. This action was to encourage all the users to use their true names to post blogs and pictures.\n\nRenren Inc. has its headquarters on the 23rd floor of the Jing An Center (S: 静安中心, T: 靜安中心, P: \"Jìng'ān Zhōngxīn\") in Chaoyang District, Beijing. Renren has its Shanghai office in the SOHO Zhong Shan Square (S: SOHO中山广场, T: SOHO中山廣場, P: \"SOHO Zhōngshān Guǎngchǎng\") in Changning District, Shanghai. Renren has its Guangzhou office in the China Shine Plaza (S: 耀中广场, T: 耀中廣場, P: \"Yàozhōng Guǎngchǎng\") in Tianhe District, Guangzhou.\n\nIn July 2007, Xiaonei officially facilitated its open platform, allowing third parties to integrate with platform by rendering modifications and adding functionalities. The APIs Xiaonei listed are quite similar with those Facebook provided, and some of Xiaonei's developers are developing based on the SDK of Facebook.\n\nRenren has a privacy policy to preserve personal information. Different privacy levels for profile, contact info and blogs can be modified in the privacy settings, thus others that fail to match the privacy requirements cannot browse the specific information or contents of a given user.\n\nIn April 2008, SoftBank bought a 14% share of Xiaonei, becoming its largest shareholder. As a result, a rumor came out that “the personal data of millions of Chinese college students on Xiaonei will be exposed to the Japanese since the Japanese company became the boss of Xiaonei\". Soon, such claim was spread all over various popular forums, QQ groups, and social networking sites like Xiaonei. Later, Xiaonei declared the denouncement towards its rivals for slander and denied what had been described in the rumor.\n\nOn April 29, 2011 a number of Renren users received a personal message saying that there's someone loving you, along with a piece of malicious code, providing the user's ID, name, school, birth date, cell-phone number, MSN, etc. to a third-party website. Such personal message exploited a bug of Renren and a built-in automatic-forwarding feature. So a great number of users were affected.\nOn the next day, such news was reported by major IT news websites in China but those articles were removed. Only a series of screenshots, a short statement and a piece of attacking code survived.\nThe community has criticized Renren's reaction towards this event. They did not clarify what happened to its users or to the media, but tried to delete the data and also made use of its public relationship team to delete the posts on every IT news websites.\n\nRenren is a typical SNS with a variety of functions with its own characteristics. In general, it is updated once or twice a year when the system's functions require rectification and further development. In addition, it changes the web page's design on special days, like Spring Festival or National Day.\n\nAs Renren mainly caters to college students, the key information to make one’s identity effective is college, high school, middle school and hometown. At present, 32,000 universities and colleges, 56,000 high schools and 85,000 companies in China and 1,500 universities in 29 other countries are available on Renren’s confirmation system. The social networks for each of these specified colleges, schools and companies have been established.\nIn the additional section of personal profiles, users can also put on information about their contact information, hobbies, favorite music, movies, the clubs they joined, etc. To personalize the profile, Renren has also developed functions to edit profile music and background.\n\nRegistered users can add friends to the friend list. By specifying educational information in the profile, a user can easily find other users. Users can be also affiliated with groups (usually an existing class, school or organization).\n\nThere are some common kinds of expressions on Renren, such as renewing the mood (lit. updating personal state), blogging, voting and sharing others’ blogs. In addition, users upload photos and share photos, articles and external links (usually videos). Leaving a message or commenting on photos, blogs, status, etc. is quite commonly seen; the interacting users leaving and replying to messages is considered a prominent instance of basic communication on Renren. Activities can be held online by calling on friends to participate. There are also several peripheral applications, such as online mini games, regular games, doggies, testing, parking lot, and selling and buying of friends.\n\nHowever, Renren's censorship is fairly strict, especially to sensitive keywords in the blogs, compared with other SNS websites in China. Blog entries containing keywords like Tiananmen Square Massacre, Falun Gong and Zhao Ziyang cannot be released. Others that are suspected to be related to political topics, obscenity or thrillers are manually censored by administrators, delaying or blocking their release.\n\nRenrenzhuomian is a kind of instant message service provided to renren.net users and it is established on year 2009. It allows users viewing news and messages online, generating new short blogs, replying to others, and forwarding news by simply opening this software and logging into the account.\n\nNowadays, people show more preference to install this simple and smart program to log into Renren, browsing and sharing news with others, rather than login to the original webpage on browsers. This is mainly because the establishment of Renrenzhuomian mobile app (for both IOS and Android). People can log into their renren accounts anywhere and this is much more convenient.\n\nAdditional functions include:\nOne can click to choose their online status and if they choose the \"invisible status\", others cannot see. This function is useful when someone wants to peek at some news but wants to remain anonymus.\nMulti-users chatting is available in Renrenzhuomian. One can talk to several people at the same time and all people will be added to a chatting group automatically.\nGIF emoticon is available in Renrenzhuomian, which is not supported technically on the websites. GIF emoticon can present more vivid expression and young users like this function.\nRenrenzhuomian enables users to download all the pictures in an album in a single click. Batch downloading function is not available on renren websites however it is available on mobile apps and it quite effective when you need it.\nUser gets notification when someone replies or when fresh news is posted by friends. Renrenzhuomian provides faster and more effective notification.\n\nUnlike many other social networks, Renren has collaborated with academic researchers to understand the growth and structure of its user community. The results have produced several academic publications. One of the first studies studied the Renren social graph structure and found it similar to prior studies of Facebook's social graph. The study also used Renren's unique feature, a per-user \"recent visitors\" log, to create an anonymous history of users and how they browse each other's profiles, which was the first of its kind. A second study detailed the process of analyzing and improving detection of fake users (also called Sybil accounts) on Renren.\n\nRenren users earn \"points\" for various activities, such as logging in regularly, posting updates, and receiving comments and replies from contacts. As users earn points, their \"level\" on the website increases, and at certain levels users gain extra privileges such as access to additional emoticons, skins for their profile, and the ability to view other users' profiles without their knowledge. Alternatively, users can gain access to all privileges by paying a monthly fee to become a VIP user.\n\nThe Renrendou, or Renren beans (人人豆), is the virtual currency on Renren. Due to some functions charging users fees, Renrendou can be used to purchase gifts, commence the Purple Bean service (紫豆服务), exchange for game coins and advertise. 1 RMB is equivalent to 1 Renrendou.\n\nRenren's parent company, Oak Pacific Interactive, launched a copy of Kaixin001 called Kaixin. On September 29, 2010, Oak Pacific announced it would integrate Renren with Kaixin. Users can use the same username to log into Renren and Kaixin. Kaixin used the same layout as Kaixin001.\n\nOn April 11, 2011, Renren was found guilty of infringing on Kaixin001's rights and ordered to pay 400,000 yuan to its rival. Kaixin001.com announced on April 26, 2011 that it had appealed the April 11 ruling as it was unsatisfied with the amount of compensation as well as the lack of change regarding Renren's usage of Kaixin.com. It also demanded an official apology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16624451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16624451", "title": "Research fellow", "text": "Research fellow\n\nA research fellow is an academic research position at a university or a similar research institution, usually for academic staff or faculty members. A research fellow may act either as an independent investigator or under the supervision of a principal investigator.\n\nIn contrast to a research assistant, the position of research fellow normally requires a doctoral degree, or equivalent work experience for instance in industry and research centers. Some research fellows undertake postdoctoral research or have some moderate teaching responsibilities. Research fellow positions vary in different countries and academic institutions. In some cases, they are permanent with the possibility of promotion, while in other instances they are temporary.\n\nIn many universities this position is a career grade of a \"Research Career Pathway\", following on from a postdoctoral position such as Research Associate, and may be open-ended, subject to normal probation regulations. Within such a path, the next two higher career grades are usually senior research fellow and professorial fellow. Although similar to the position of a research fellow, these two positions are research only posts, with the rise of the career grade there will normally be a formal requirement of a moderate amount of teaching and/or supervision (often at postgraduate level). These positions are for researchers with a proven track record of generating research income to fund themselves and producing high-quality research output that is internationally recognised.\n\nIn some universities, research career grades roughly correspond to the grades of the \"Teaching and Scholarship Career Pathways\" in the following way: research fellow—lecturer, professorial fellow—professor, whereas senior research fellow is somewhere between a reader and a senior lecturer. However, at some top universities, a senior research fellowship may be a position of comparable academic standing to a full professorship at these universities, without any teaching requirements.\n\nIn the past, the term research fellow often referred to a junior researcher, who worked on a specific project on a temporary basis. Research fellows tended to be paid either from central university funds or by an outside organisation such as a charity or company, or through an external grant-awarding body such as a research council or a royal society, for example in the Royal Society University Research Fellowship. Particularly in Oxbridge style colleges, research fellows appointed as fellows of a college tended to, or still do, partially receive remuneration in form of college housing and subsistence. Colleges may award junior research fellowships as the equivalent of post-doctoral research posts, lasting for three or four years. In contrast, senior research fellows tended to be established academics, often a professor on sabbatical from another institution, conducting temporally research elsewhere.\n\nIn India, the position of research fellowship is provided to scholars from various streams like science, arts, literature, agriculture to reward their excellence . Research fellowship is funded by government academic and research institutes, and private companies as well. Research fellows research under the supervision of experienced faculty, professor, head of department, Dean on two different posts known as junior research fellow(JRF) and senior research fellow(SRF). Research organisations like ICAR, CSIR, UGC, ICMR, SERB recruit research fellows through National Eligibility Test. After the completion of pre-defined tenure, JRF can be considered for senior research fellowship based on research fellow's performance & interview conducted by committee by research institute, research fellow is working with.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, the position and title research fellow is unknown; however, there is a broadly similar position of (, literally \"scientific worker\"). This position normally requires a degree of Candidate of Sciences approximately corresponding to the PhD. More senior positions normally require, in addition to the aforementioned degree, a track record of publications or certified inventions, as well as practical contributions to major research and development projects.\nResearch fellows in South Africa are considered as the best asset to research organisations and universities. There are highly ranked universities like University of the Witwatersrand, University of Stellenbosch Business School, rhode university which offers fellowship to South Africa's nationals in a certain field of research.\n\nIn some countries, the English term research fellow is sometimes used to refer to the \"holder\" of a \"research fellowship\" that funds research.\n\nIn Germany, institutions such as the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation offer research fellowship for postdoctoral research and refer to the holder as research fellows, while the award holder may formally hold a specific title at his or her home institution (e.g., \"Privatdozent\").\n\n"}
{"id": "317034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317034", "title": "Roommate", "text": "Roommate\n\nA roommate is a person with whom one shares a living facility such as a room or dormitory without being family or romantically involved. Similar terms include dormmate, suitemate, housemate, flatmate (\"flat\": the usual term in British English for an apartment – in New Zealand, \"flatmate\" is solely used, regardless of whether the dwelling is an apartment or a detached house), or sharemate (shared living spaces are often called \"sharehomes\" in Australia and other Commonwealth countries). A sharehome is a model of household in which a group of usually unrelated people reside together. The term generally applies to people living together in rental properties rather than in properties in which any resident is an owner occupier. In the UK, the term \"roommate\" means a person living in the same \"bedroom\", whereas in the United States and Canada, \"roommate\" and \"housemate\" are used interchangeably regardless whether a bedroom is shared, although it is common in US universities that having a roommate implies sharing a room together. This article uses the term \"roommate\" in the US sense of a person one shares a \"residence\" with who is not a relative or significant other. The informal term for roommate is roomie, which is commonly used by university students.\n\nThe most common reason for sharing housing is to reduce the cost of housing. In many rental markets, the monthly rent for a two- or three-bedroom apartment is proportionately less per bedroom than the rent for a one-bedroom apartment (in other words, a three-bedroom flat costs more than a one-bedroom, but not three times as much). By pooling their monthly housing money, a group of people can achieve a lower housing expense at the cost of less privacy. Other motivations are to gain better amenities than those available in single-person housing, to share the work of maintaining a household, and to have the companionship of other people.\n\nPeople become roommates when they move into a rental property, with one or more of them having applied to rent the property through a real estate agent, being accepted and having signed a lease.\n\nHousemates and roommates are typically unmarried young adults, including workers and students. It is not rare for middle-aged and elderly adults who are single, divorced, or widowed to have housemates. Married couples, however, typically discontinue living with roommates, especially when they have children.\n\nThose moving to another city or another country may decide to look for a shared house or apartment to avoid loneliness. Social changes such as the declining affordability of home ownership and decreasing marriage rates are reasons why people may choose to live with roommates. Despite this rise, shared housing is little researched.\n\nRoommates are a fairly common point of reference in Western culture. In the United States, most young adults spend at least a short part of their lives living with roommates after they leave their family's home. Very often this involves moving out of the home and to college, where the primary option for living is with a roommate. Therefore, many novels, movies, plays, and television programs employ roommates as a basic principle or a plot device (such as the popular series \"Friends\" or \"The Big Bang Theory\"). Sharing a house or a flat is also very common in European countries such as France (French \"colocation\", corenting) or Germany (German \"WG\" for \"Wohngemeinschaft\", living [together] community). Many websites are specialized in finding a flatmate. On the other hand, it is less common for people of any age to live with roommates in some countries, such as Japan, where single-person one-room apartments are plentiful.\n\nThere are many different forms of flat shares also, from the more established flat shares where the flatmate will get their own room that is furnished to \"couch surfing\" where people lend their sofa for a short period.\nSharehome residents are typically unrelated to each other in that they generally come from different families, although they may be composed of some siblings and sometimes single parents and their children. Perhaps because of the social cohesion required for their formation, sharehomes will often be composed of members of the same peer group. For example, university students who have relocated to a new area to commence a course of study often need to form a sharehome. Share housing often occurs in the 18-35 age bracket – during a life stage between leaving home and having children. Sharehome residents may have pre-existing friendships or other interpersonal relationships or they may form new relationships whilst living together.\n\nMany universities in the United States require first-year students to live in on-campus residence halls, sharing a dormitory room with a same-sex roommate.\n\nAccording to the American Community Survey, 7.7% of Americans lived with a roommate in 2014. From 2000 to 2014, the proportion of Americans living with roommates increased by 13%, revealing that it is an increasingly popular lifestyle choice.\n\nThe change in the cost of housing makes the consideration of roommates more attractive. As the housing market increases, so too does the roommate ratio rate. When house prices drop, the opposite can be expected. This has been seen extensively in cities such as Washington D.C., Phoenix, and San Diego.\n\nStudent exchanges are getting more and more popular with globalization and has influenced a lot in the Roommate Boom. The Erasmus exchange program in Europe has contributed as being the biggest exchange program in Europe. Exchange students can live in university residences but a growing number want to share apartments with other international students in shared apartments.\n\nRoommates and house-sharing are not limited to students and young adults however. American politicians Chuck Schumer, William Delahunt, Richard Durbin, and George Miller famously share a house in Washington, D.C. while Congress is in session.\n\nIn Indian universities and colleges it is quite common that students share their rooms with a couple of others. Usually students in the master or doctoral programs are allocated with own rooms.\n\nSharing an apartment is quite popular by young adults (most of them university students) in countries like Germany, Austria and Switzerland, while sharing a bedroom is more uncommon.\n\nThe following table lists the top 10 American cities with the highest proportion of people aged 18 to 39 who live with roommates.\n\nOne difficulty is finding suitable roommates. Living with a roommate can mean much less privacy than having a residence of one's own, and for some people this can cause a lot of stress. Another thing to consider when choosing a roommate is how to divide the cost of living. Who pays for what, or are the shared expenses divided between the two or more roommates. Also, the potential roommate should be trusted to pay their share and trusted to pay it on time. Sleeping patterns can also be disrupted when living with a number of people. Some of the challenges that come with share housing may include advertising for, interviewing and choosing potential housemates; sharing communal household goods, rent (often this may be determined by the size or position of respective bedrooms); sharing household bills and grocery costs; and sharing housework, cleaning, and cooking responsibilities. Conflicts may arise if, for example, residents have different standards of cleanliness, different diets, or different hours of employment or study. Guests and partners may also begin to board frequently, which can raise complications pertaining to utility expenses, additional rent and further possible cleaning duties. Often when these responsibilities go untended, friction may result between co-tenants. For this reason, responsibilities should be delegated and fairly assigned as early as possible in any living arrangement with roommates. A clear and defined list of alternating chores and bill lists are easy to see and enforce.\n\nRoommates matter, as they have a great impression upon the ones whom they live with and therefore surround themselves by. More and more research has been produced in order to properly understand this impact. The areas of impact can vary greatly in both positive and negative ways; most important is that individuals should be aware of the possible behaviour and social changes that may happen when living with a roommate.\n\nLiving with an individual who exercises and diets can be beneficial because it very often \"rubs off\" on the other roommates, while a calorie cutting roommate could be a potential negative influence. College is a time that students often start drinking, specifically binge drinking (more than 4 or 5 drinks in a row). By the end of second semester in college 53% of freshman students had binged. Students explained that having a drinking roommate provided a “buddy” to go through it all and was a big influence in the decision to do so. \n\nMood susceptible: \"Each happy friend a person has increases that person's probability of being happy by 9 percent and each unhappy friend decreases it by 7 percent,\" says Nicholas A. Christakis, a co-author of \"Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social Networks and How They Shape Our Lives\". Whether the roommates are friends or not the interactions and behaviors shared and expressed will undoubtable have an effect on the roommates. Although shown not to be as impressionable as eating habits are moods can change, specifically more in male roommates based on the others emotions.\n\nEffects on Studies: Studies showed that having a roommate that plays video games causes the other to most likely participate, which reflected in a half-hour less of studying, also showing GPA's .02 lower than others. When dealing with a college roommate the choice to study or sleep should take precedence over the choice to party or play loud music. This understanding allows those to choose to focus differently on school to do so without harm to the roommate relationship or grades.\n\nAddressing an Issue: \nThe best approach to address an issue with a roommate is an upfront and in person conversation, preferably a one on one conversation. While approaching the issues understand and respect each other's differences. When discussing the issues allow both sides to express their thoughts and feelings on the issue. And after both listening and speaking to each other present a resolution. and in doing so create a win-win situation this allows for the conflict to be more easily resolved. The resolution may not be the personal idea, but it should help the situation to some degree.\n\n\n\"\n"}
{"id": "2909746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2909746", "title": "Row Lewis", "text": "Row Lewis\n\nRow Lewis is a Grenadian activist, teacher, life coach, vocalist, and liberation theologian. She is the founder of Liberty Fellowship Center, a non-profit ministry, where she serves as the Executive Director and Spiritual Advisor.\n\nThe daughter of a Pentecostal Pastor, Rev. Raymond Lewis of the True Vine Church, Row Lewis is an ordained minister with academic studies in Comparative Religion, World Religion, Psychology, Counseling, and Journalism from the University of Florida and Hope Theological Seminary. She has enjoyed a career in television broadcasting for over a decade, winning Associated Press Awards (1998, 2001) for interviews with former U.S. Secretary of Defense, William Cohen, and recording artists, The Baha Men.\n\nBorn into a musical family, Row took the stage singing and performing at age 5, but still feels she has more to accomplish:\n\nRow says her focus now is stayed on the human condition.\n\nIn 1994 Row started the music group, \"Fresh Fire\", with her brother (Attorney and Music Producer, Esmond Lewis) and sister (Entrepreneur, Rachel Lewis) serving as lead vocalist. Her band toured and shared stages with such gospel artists as: Kirk Franklin, Yolanda Adams, Cece Winans, Donnie McClurkin, T-Bone, Hezekiah Walker, and Vicki Winans. \"Fresh Fire\" recorded two albums, including the acclaimed, \"Summer of '94\". Fusing jazz, calypso, folk, reggae, soul and blues with inspirational lyrics, the group enjoyed several crossover hits.\n\nIn 2003 through 2004, Row took the stage as a solo artist and performer, of original musical and spoken word pieces, under her \"Soul Connection\" label. Currently, Row is working on a new project entitled, \"The Poet Speaks\", where she takes on the issues of race, class, gender, religion, and social justice.\n\nRow Lewis is originally from the Island of Grenada, born to her Trinidadian mother Yvonne, and her Grenadian/Vincentian father, Raymond. She is the fourth of seven children. Row currently resides in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\n"}
{"id": "1327658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327658", "title": "Sterling Professor", "text": "Sterling Professor\n\nSterling Professor is the highest academic rank at Yale University, awarded to a tenured faculty member considered one of the best in his or her field. It is akin to the rank of university professor at other universities.\n\nThe appointment, made by the President of Yale University and confirmed by the Yale Corporation, can be granted to any Yale faculty member, and up to forty professors can hold the title at the same time. The position was established through a 1918 bequest from John William Sterling, and the first Sterling Professor was appointed in 1920.\n\nThe professorships are named for and funded by a $15-million bequest left by John W. Sterling, partner in the New York law firm Shearman & Sterling and an 1864 graduate of Yale College. In addition to financing the university's largest construction projects throughout the 1920s, including the Sterling Memorial Library and flagship facilities for many of its professional schools, Sterling stipulated the bequest would allow \"to some extent, the foundation of Scholarships, Fellowships or Lectureships, the endowment of new professorships and the establishment of special funds for prizes.\" Sterling's trustees eventually left the university more than $5 million for this purpose—about $225,000 per chair.\n\nThe first Sterling Professor was chemist John Johnston, who was awarded the rank in 1920, and was joined later that year by school administrator Frank E. Spaulding, biochemist Lafayette Mendel, and astronomer Ernest William Brown. By the mid-1920s, the endowment allowed eighteen Sterling Professors to be appointed. In 1958, the Yale Corporation capped the number of simultaneous appointments at 27, but further endowment growth allowed this number to expand to 40 by 2011. In addition to currently appointed faculty, a number of former Sterling Professors retain emeritus appointments at the university and continue to teach.\n\nThe first woman to be named Sterling Professor was cell biologist Marilyn Farquhar, in 1987. After Farquhar left Yale in 1989, Middle English scholar Marie Borroff and geneticist Carolyn Slayman were the next women appointed, in 1991. Among the youngest appointees were John Farquhar Fulton, made Sterling Professor of Physiology in 1929 at age 30, and later-U.S Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, appointed in 1932 at the age of 33. Joan Steitz and Thomas Steitz, biochemists appointed in 1999 and 2001 respectively, are the only married couple to have both held the appointment.\n\n"}
{"id": "45187156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45187156", "title": "Stockholm Town Housemaid School", "text": "Stockholm Town Housemaid School\n\nThe Stockholm Town Housemaid School () was a vocational school started in 1938 at Scheelegatan 8 on the island of Kungsholmen in Stockholm, Sweden. The school educated housemaids. It was established during a shortage of housemaids, and the idea was well received. The students were graded, and the classes where phtographed wearing housemaid uniforms.\n\nHarald Norbelie has depicted the school in a chapter of the 1993 book \"\".\n"}
{"id": "20049348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20049348", "title": "Technological University of Panama", "text": "Technological University of Panama\n\nThe Technological University of Panama, Universidad Tecnológica de Panamá (UTP) in Spanish, is the second largest university in Panama. It comprises six faculties in seven campuses nationwide. The main campus is a 60-hectare piece of land in Panama City, the country’s capital.\n\nThe Universidad Tecnológica de Panamá (UTP) is the highest hierarchy public institution, regarding higher education in Panama. It was formerly the Engineering School of the University of Panama, which in 1975 became Polytechnic Institute and, due to the need of a new model of university, it became the Universidad Tecnológica de Panamá, by means of Law 18 of August 13, 1981.\n\nOn October 9, 1984 the Universidad Tecnológica de Panamá was definitively organized by means of Law 17. Law 57 of July 26, 1996 modifies and adds to Law 17 of 1984.\n\nSince class of 1981, the nation has received uninterruptedly the delivery of more than 43,000 professionals from the UTP; their knowledge, skills and vision contribute to the development of the Republic of Panama. UTP started with six bachelor degrees and 15 technical careers. Currently it offers 43 advanced careers, 28 bachelor degrees and 21 technical careers.\n\nThe synergy created with the Panamanian Government, private sector and society allows the UTP to maintain a state of the art academic offer and to contribute efficiently with the technological and social development of the country. Valuable links developed with prestigious academic institutions, research centers, organizations and corporations of other countries, ensure a successful participation in the global village.\n\nIts current academic offer is the best evidence of institutional growth. There are 131 careers at different levels, as follows: 2 Doctorate studies, 40 master degrees, 26 postgraduated courses, 1 Professor Career, 4 Specializations, 8 Diplomas, 14 Bachelor degrees in Engineering, 14 Bachelor Degrees, 8 Bachelor Degrees in Technology and 14 Technical careers. Regarding demand, it has increased from 5,735 students on 1981 to 18,000 on 2011.\n\nIt has a Faculty of 1,234 professors, 30% of them teaching full-time and an administrative crew of 1,200 people. UTP is the national leader in engineering research; and a reference point of expertise in technology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOfficial website (in Spanish): www.utp.ac.pa\n"}
{"id": "23222849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23222849", "title": "Terence Lewis (choreographer)", "text": "Terence Lewis (choreographer)\n\nTerence Lewis (born 10 April 1975) is an Indian dancer and choreographer, specializing in contemporary dance. He is known as a choreographer and judge in reality dance series \"Dance India Dance season 1, 2 & 3\" (2009–2012) He runs his 'Terence Lewis Contemporary Dance Company' in Mumbai, holds dance workshops both in India and abroad. He has choreographed Bollywood films like, \"Lagaan\" (2001), \"Jhankaar Beats\" (2003) and \"Ram-Leela\" (2013), apart from musicals, stage shows, ads, music videos and national and international dance competitions , as well as starring in a music video for \"DJ Hot Remix Vol.3\" called Badan Pe Sitare (Remix of old song by Harry Anand) He was recently a judge of \"Nach Baliye 5\", along with actress Shilpa Shetty and film director Sajid Khan. And currently seen judging Nach Baliye Shriman v/s Shrimati along with actress and \"Nach Baliye 5\" judge Shilpa Shetty and film director and choreographer Farah Khan. Terence Lewis also got Staar Parivaar Award for Favourite Judge. He also choreographed Disney India's first theatre production Beauty and the Beast.\n\nRaised in Mumbai in a Mangalorean Catholic family of Xavier Lewis and Teresa Lewis, Lewis is the youngest of eight siblings. He studied and started dancing in St. Theresa's Boys High School, and St. Xavier's college, Mumbai. He is graduated from IHM Mumbai formerly known as Dadar Catering College. He is trained in jazz, ballet and contemporary dance at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance in New York.\n\nLewis is a choreographer in Bollywood films and musicals, stage shows, ads and music videos. He has choreographed a number of films and musicals as a choreographer. Lewis has choreographed a number of stage shows, Indian contemporary performances, Bollywood Shows, corporate launches, Broadway Westend musicals, feature films, several popular music videos, and has appeared in advertisements. Lewis won the 2002 American Choreography Award for his choreography for songs of the movie \"Lagaan\" along with Saroj Khan, Raju Khan, Ganesh Hegde and Vaibhavi Merchant.\n\nHe has choreographed international stage shows, Bollywood shows, corporate launches, Broadway Westend musicals, feature films, ads and music videos. He is the first Indian to receive the danceWEB Europe Scholarship, representing India in Vienna, Austria. He's currently a judge in the same celebrity couple dance competition but its sixth season.\n\nTerence Lewis has been a judge on \"Dance India Dance\" for its past two seasons. In the first season, he and his contestant, Alisha Singh, came in second place, with Mohammed Y.K Gouse (Salman Khan) in first. He was the mentor for the winner of the second season, Shakti Mohan. In the third season, his contestant, Pradeep Gurung, came in second place behind Rajasmita Kar. He is also going to judge another dance show, \"Chak Dhoom Dhoom,\" on the Colors television channel\".\"\n\nIn the third season of \"Dance India Dance\", Lewis is still part of the judging panel along with Remo D'Souza and Geeta Kapoor. The most shocking event to happen during the season 3 auditions was the participation of his former assistant, who did so without informing Lewis. Lewis did not judge his performance and left it to the other two judges, who selected him for the next round regardless.\n\nLewis was the contestant of the of Colors TV's Fear Factor - Khatron Ke Khiladi anchored by Priyanka Chopra. Lewis chose Ananya Kapoor as his partner, and she is from Indore/New Delhi, studying engineering from Indore and schooled from Air Force Bal Bharti School, New Delhi. The 3rd Level for 13 New Boys was held in Copacabana, Brazil. He was eliminated in the 11th Episode.\n\nHe has done more than 25 movies and musical albums. Lewis is well known for his work on \"Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India\", \"Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela\" and \"Gold\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10553214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10553214", "title": "Theodore Drange", "text": "Theodore Drange\n\nTheodore \"Ted\" Michael Drange (born 1934) is a philosopher of religion and Professor Emeritus at West Virginia University, where he taught philosophy from 1966 to 2001.\n\nAfter graduating from Fort Hamilton High School, he received a B.A. from Brooklyn College in 1955 and a Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1963, where he moved to after one year of graduate school at Yale.\n\nHe taught at Brooklyn College (1960–62), the University of Oregon (1962–65), Idaho State University (1965–66) and West Virginia University, 1966-2001 after becoming a full professor in 1974. Drange retired in 2001 and moved to Ventura, CA.\n\nDrange's primarily interests, until the early 1980s were in philosophy of language and epistemology, later shifting to philosophy of religion.\n\nDrange's first book, \"Type Crossings\" (The Hague: Mouton & Co., 1966) was a revision of his Ph.D. dissertation under Max Black on the philosophy of language and was published in 1966. His other book was in the philosophy of religion, \"Nonbelief and Evil\" (Amherst, NY: Prometheus Books, 1998), in 1998. Drange has also written several articles on the philosophy of religion and atheism, particularly for the Internet Infidels organization. In 1997, he debated Christian apologist William Lane Craig on the existence of God.\n\nDrange married his wife Annette in 1959 and had two children, Susan and Michael.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2224452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224452", "title": "Tompkins Table", "text": "Tompkins Table\n\nThe Tompkins Table is an annual ranking that lists the Colleges of the University of Cambridge in order of their undergraduate students' performances in that year's examinations. Two colleges - Darwin and Clare Hall - do not have undergraduate students and therefore do not feature in the list. It was created in 1981 by Peter Tompkins, then a third-year undergraduate mathematics student at Trinity College, who until 2015 compiled it every year exclusively for the newspaper \"The Independent\". Since 2016, it has been published by Varsity, a student newspaper of the University of Cambridge. It is not an official University of Cambridge table. It does not take account of students who are not candidates for Honours degrees, or those who have failed to gain a degree.\n\nInitially, it only included final year exams but since 1997 has covered all exams for which grades are allocated. The table allocates 5 points for a First Class degree, 3 points for an Upper Second (known also as a 2.i), 2 points for a Lower Second (a 2.ii), 1 point for a Third and no points for someone only granted an allowance towards an Ordinary Degree. The scores in each subject are then weighted to a common average, to avoid the bias towards colleges with higher proportions of students entered for subjects which receive higher average grades. The result is expressed as a percentage of the total number of points available. The differences between the highest places on the table are usually very slight. Christ's College was the top college in 2018 following seven years in which Trinity College came top. The rankings are not officially endorsed by the University. Since Darwin College and Clare Hall admit only graduate students, they do not feature in this undergraduate ranking. Some of the mature colleges, including St. Edmund's College, Hughes Hall, Lucy Cavendish College, and Wolfson College, tend to perform relatively more poorly in the Tompkins Table, but have significantly more graduate students than undergraduate students, so the results here are not representative of the majority of the student population of each of these colleges.\n\nMost of the colleges fall within a 10% range of one another therefore the table should be taken lightly with regards to determining the academic standing of the colleges.\n\nBelow is the table for 2018:\n\nCertain Colleges of the University of Cambridge commission similar tables called Baxter Tables from Martin Baxter who is a financial analyst specialising in mathematical modelling and who developed the Electoral Calculus web site. Baxter tables rank colleges' undergraduate students by their year and subject separately and are delivered in July or August. They are compiled using published Class Lists, which do not include students who are not candidates for Honours degrees, or those who have failed to gain a degree, or those whose names the Council have determined should be withheld from public display. They are meant for internal use of Colleges but not the University, being distributed to the Senior Tutors of the Colleges , with the full tables not being published publicly or outside of the Colleges, and some students being unaware of their existence. However, the rankings of Colleges in the Baxter Tables are sometimes referred to by Colleges in publicly available literature, and the methodology used to compile the Baxter Tables is also available. There is also a 'value-added' table, which shows how students' results improve over the course of their years at Cambridge, and is intended to give a measure or indication of the quality of teaching at the different Colleges. However, with such small sample sizes, the amount of meaningful information which can be extracted from these tables is questionable.\n\nThe corresponding ranking for Oxford colleges is the Norrington Table. Since 1986, when the University of Oxford adopted split second-class degrees, the Norrington Table has adopted the same method of scoring as the Tompkins Table, but without the weighting attached to individual subject scores.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57508682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57508682", "title": "Training schools in China", "text": "Training schools in China\n\nIn China, the term \"training school\" or \"training center\" can refer to a private company that helps students, typically from 3-12 years old, improve their performance in academic subjects such as English, math, or Chinese. These schools normally operate in the evenings, on weekends, or both. Many hold classes during school recesses. Training schools can range anywhere from a one-room operation with only one teacher to very large corporations with hundreds of thousands of students. The more well-known national-level training schools include \"EF (English First), Giraffe, Aston, Hess, and Best Learning\". One reason for the existence of training schools in China is the \"large gap between the demand for and supply of elementary and secondary teachers\", which causes an increase in the value of premium teaching.\n\nThe purpose of a training school is to help students achieve higher scores on the tests they will face in their public schools. There is a strong distinction in China between a training school and one that will explicitly get students ready for an international school or an overseas education. Training schools focus on memorization and test taking, but schools geared towards child development emphasize games and activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "741850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=741850", "title": "Varsity match", "text": "Varsity match\n\nA varsity match is a sporting fixture between two university teams, particularly Oxford and Cambridge. The Scottish Varsity rugby match between the University of St Andrews and the University of Edinburgh at Murrayfield stadium is claimed to be the oldest recurring varsity match in the world, having been played since the 1860s. However, it is predated by the University Match in Cricket between Oxford and Cambridge, which was first played in 1827.\n\nThe country's longest-running series of varsity matches is played between the University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford, dating back, in addition to the 1827 University Match in Cricket mentioned above, to the first \"Boat Race\" in 1829 and the first \"Varsity Match\" (in Rugby Union) in 1872. Unusually for British university sporting events, both of these are shown on broadcast television. Unlike many more recent varsity competitions, the Oxford–Cambridge matches stand alone rather than being part of a wider multi-sport varsity competition.\n\nBritish newspaper \"The Independent\" proposed in 2008 that Bath vs Loughborough was \"the real varsity match\" on the basis that these were the top two teams (at that time) in British Universities Sports Association (BUSA) competitions. Since 2015, British Universities and Colleges Sport (BUCS), the successor to BUSA, has organised fixtures between Loughborough and Durham (the top two universities since 2011/12) to occur on the same day, in what has been termed the \"BUCS Varsity\".\n\nA number of city and regional sporting rivalries exist between universities, which are also dubbed varsity matches. The Roses Tournament between the universities of York and Lancaster is one of the oldest and largest of these, dating back to 1965. It is frequently referred to as the largest inter-university sports tournament in Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31846892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31846892", "title": "Worcester County Mathematics League", "text": "Worcester County Mathematics League\n\nThe Worcester County Mathematics League (WOCOMAL) is a high school mathematics league composed of 32 high schools, most of which are in Worcester County, Massachusetts. It organizes seven mathematics competitions per year, four at the \"varsity\" level (up to grade 12) and three at the \"freshman\" level (up to grade nine, including middle school students). In the 2013-14 school year, WOCOMAL began allowing older students to compete in the freshman level competitions, calling this level of participation \"junior varsity.\"\n\nTop schools from the varsity competition are selected to attend the Massachusetts Association of Math Leagues state competition.\n\nA competition consists of four, or nine rounds at the Freshman level or five rounds at the Varsity level. The team round consists of eight problems at the Freshman level and nine at the Varsity level. Regardless of level, each student competes in three of the individual rounds.\n\nIn each individual round, competing students have ten minutes to answer three questions, worth one, two, and three points. The maximum meet score for a student is eighteen points.\n\nThe Worcester County Mathematics League was originally formed in 1963 as the Southern Worcester County Mathematics League (Sowocomal). The winningest school in league history is St. John's High School, with twelve league championships in the fourteen-year span between 1983–84 and 1996-97. Algonquin Regional High School won six consecutive league championships from 1998-99 to 2003-04.\n\nThe league currently has members from Western Middlesex Counties. In the past, it has had members from Hampshire County, Massachusetts, and Windham County, Connecticut.\n\nIn the 2015-16 season, the champion of both the varsity division and the freshman division was the Advanced Math and Science Academy Charter School.\n\nLeague members AMSA Charter, Worcester Academy, and Mass Academy and took first, second, and third place among small-sized schools at the 2016 Massachusetts state championship math meet. St. John's High School took fifth place among medium-sized schools. WOCOMAL schools have taken first place in the state among small schools for thirteen consecutive years.\n\nAt the 2016 New England championship math meet, league members AMSA Charter, Worcester Academy, and Mass Academy took first, second, and fifth place respectively among small schools. WOCOMAL schools have taken first or second place in New England among small schools for twelve consecutive years.\n\n"}
{"id": "45696936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45696936", "title": "World and I", "text": "World and I\n\nWorld and I was a monthly magazine owned by News World Communications, an international news media corporation founded by Unification Church founder Sun Myung Moon. \"World and I\" started as a full-color glossy magazine in 1986 as a print magazine published by \"The Washington Times\". It covered a broad range of articles by scholars and experts in the areas of politics, economics, global studies, liberal arts, fine arts, general science, and books. The magazine ceased publication in 2004.\n\nThe print edition was later replaced by an online publication at the rate of one edition per month. The online publication now called \"The World and I Online\" is headquartered in New York City. \n\nIt previously contained Spanish language pages with articles from \"Tiempos del Mundo\", a now defunct newsweekly published in the United States and in 15 countries of Latin America.\n\n\"World and I\" has launched special features for K-12 schools, including core curriculum pages, weekly ESL and Spanish pages, teacher’s guide lesson plans. This program on a subscription basis is run through \"World and I School\" and the program \"World and I Kids.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "38894276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38894276", "title": "XBlock", "text": "XBlock\n\nXBlock is the SDK for the edX MOOC platform, written in Python2, and announced and released publicly on March 14, 2013. It aims to enable the global software development community to participate in the construction of the edX educational platform and the next generation of online and blended courses.\n\nDocumentation for the XBlock SDK is currently in an ″extremely preliminary″ state, and developers are encouraged to communicate directly and interactively with the XBlock authors before proceeding to build something new with it.\n\n"}
