{"id": "169517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169517", "title": "1916 Summer Olympics", "text": "1916 Summer Olympics\n\nThe 1916 Summer Olympics (German: \"Olympische Sommerspiele 1916\"), officially known as the Games of the VI Olympiad, were scheduled to be held in Berlin, Germany, but were eventually cancelled due to the outbreak of World War I. Berlin was selected as the host city during the 14th IOC Session in Stockholm on 4 July 1912, defeating bids from Alexandria, Amsterdam, Brussels, Budapest and Cleveland. After the 1916 Games were cancelled, Berlin would eventually host the 1936 Summer Olympics, twenty years later.\n\nWork on the stadium, the Deutsches Stadion (\"German Stadium\"), began in 1912 at what was the Grunewald Race Course. It was planned to seat more than 18,000 spectators. On 8 June 1913, the stadium was dedicated with the release of 10,000 pigeons. 60,000 people were in attendance.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I in 1914, organization continued as no one expected that the war would continue for several years. Eventually, though, the Games were cancelled.\n\nA winter sports week with speed skating, figure skating, ice hockey and Nordic skiing was planned; the concept of this week eventually gave rise to the first Winter Olympic Games. The central venue was to have been the Deutsches Stadion.\n\nBerlin returned to Olympic bidding in 1931, when it beat Barcelona, Spain, for the right to host the 1936 Summer Olympics, the last Olympics before the outbreak of World War II.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "33037036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33037036", "title": "1968 London–Sydney Marathon", "text": "1968 London–Sydney Marathon\n\nThe 1968 London–Sydney Marathon, officially Daily Express-Daily Telegraph London-Sydney Marathon was the first running of the London-Sydney Marathon. The rally took place between the 24th of November and the 17th of December 1968. The event covered 9,900 miles (16,000 km) through Europe, Asia and Australia. It was won by Andrew Cowan, Colin Malkin and Brian Coyle, driving a Hillman Hunter.\n\nThe original Marathon was the result of a lunch in late 1967, during a period of despondency in Britain caused by the devaluation of the pound. Sir Max Aitken, proprietor of the \"Daily Express\", and two of his editorial executives, Jocelyn Stevens and Tommy Sopwith, decided to create an event which their newspaper could sponsor, and which would serve to raise the country's spirits. Such an event would, it was felt, act as a showcase for British engineering and would boost export sales in the countries through which it passed.\n\nThe initial UK£10,000 winner's prize offered by the \"Daily Express\" was soon joined by a £3,000 runners-up award and two £2,000 prizes for the third-placed team and for the highest-placed Australians, all of which were underwritten by the \"Daily Telegraph\" newspaper and its proprietor Sir Frank Packer, who was eager to promote the Antipodean leg of the rally.\n\nAn eight-man organising committee was established to create a suitably challenging but navigable route. Jack Sears, organising secretary and himself a former racing driver, plotted a 7,000-mile course covering eleven countries in as many days, and arranged that the P&O liner \"S.S. Chusan\" would ferry the first 72 cars and their crews on the nine-day voyage from India, before the final 2,900 miles across Australia:\n\nThe remaining crews departed Bombay at 3 am on Thursday 5 December, arriving in Fremantle at 10 am on Friday 13 December before they restarted in Perth the following evening. Any repairs attempted on the car during the voyage would lead to the crew's exclusion.\n"}
{"id": "28311794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28311794", "title": "99ers", "text": "99ers\n\n99ers is a colloquial term for unemployed people in the United States, mostly citizens, who have exhausted all of their unemployment benefits, including all unemployment extensions. As a result of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by Congress in February 2009, many unemployed people could receive up to 99 weeks of unemployment insurance benefits, hence the name \"99ers\". An estimated 7 million people are affected.\n\nUnited States unemployment benefits during the financial crisis of 2007-2010 were calculated as follows (with the availability of extensions dependent on a state's unemployment rate (see: Bureau of Labor Statistics):\n\nLegislation to extend unemployment benefits had been blocked from coming to a vote on the floor of the Senate through minority Republican filibuster or holds. This began in February 2010 with the block of an unemployment benefit funding bill vote for already authorized and granted unemployment checks for those who had not exhausted their benefits by a single Senator, Jim Bunning (R-KY).\n\nFollowing that precedent, Senate floor votes on unemployment have required a supermajority of sixty votes to bring the bills to the floor. Bunning's position was that he wanted the bill paid for out of previously allocated funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Senators who did not initially support Bunning's position since used this argument to block or delay votes on unemployment extensions that could not achieve a supermajority to reach the floor for a vote.\n\nEconomists have cited that unemployment should not have the requirement of being paid for out of an existing stimulus package because it is stimulative and, therefore, to take away allocated funds from other projects would have a self-canceling effect.\n\nThe passage of the bill to fund eligible (non-exhausted) unemployment benefits required a special appointment of a replacement senator, Carte Goodwin, by West Virginia Governor Joe Manchin, after the death of Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV), whose vote was needed for the supermajority. This gave the Senate its 60th vote for the legislation and the funds were released to the states to pay unemployment compensation to those who were eligible and who had not yet exhausted benefits as of July 2010.\n\nThe passage of the bill did not provide for those who exhausted their benefits, the 99ers.\n\nOn August 4, 2010, Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) introduced a bill (S.3706) to extend unemployment past 99 weeks. The bill was referred to the Senate Finance Committee prior to the Senate breaking for their summer vacation:\n\nA Senate bill introduced by Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) on August 4, 2010 will, if passed, benefit those who have exhausted all of their benefits by providing an additional 20 weeks of unemployment benefits under a Tier 5. The bill has an unemployment rate threshold of 7.5% which requires states to have an unemployment rate at 7.5% or higher to qualify. The bill was announced by Senator Stabenow on MSNBC's \"The Ed Schultz Show\" (video). The bill is co-sponsored by Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY), Harry Reid (D-NV), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Carl Levin (D-MI), Bob Casey, Jr. (D-PA), Christopher Dodd (D-CT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Jack Reed (D-RI), and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI).\n\nThe proposed bill was designed to help 99ers by:\n\nTier 5 Unemployment Insurance (Under S.3706 Bill): What it does: Provides 20 weeks of additional unemployment insurance for states with 7.5% or higher unemployment. This tier will benefit the people who have exhausted all of their benefits.\n\nRetroactive Eligibility: Would apply retroactively to everyone who has exhausted all of their previous tiers in recent months. However, benefits would not be paid retroactively. (Example: a claimant who exhausted his or her benefits three months ago would be eligible to begin Tier 5 at the date of enactment. He or she would not, however, be paid out for the three months in which no benefits were received. If a claimant is going to exhaust benefits in two weeks, he or she will move right onto Tier 5 and receive 20 weeks of benefits.)\n\nRequirements: People who are unemployed still need to meet current UI law requirements such as job searches.\n\nOn August 10, 2010, Representative Shelley Berkley (D-NV) introduced a House bill (H.R. 6901) to extend benefits for another 20 additional weeks for states whose unemployment rate exceeds 10 percent:\n\nA House bill introduced by Representative Shelley Berkley (D-NV-1) on August 10, 2010 will, if passed, benefit those who have exhausted all of their benefits by providing an additional 20 weeks of unemployment benefits under a Tier 5. The bill has an unemployment rate threshold of 10% which requires states to have an unemployment rate at 10% or higher to qualify. The bill is co-sponsored by Representatives Michael F. Doyle (D, PA-14), Bob Filner (D, CA-51), Barney Frank (D, MA-4), Phil Hare (D, IL-17), Dale Kildee (D, MI-5), Carolyn Kilpatrick (D, MI-13), John Lewis (D, GA-5), Jim McDermott (D, WA-7), Laura Richardson (D, CA-37), Linda Sánchez (D, CA-39), Janice Schakowsky (D, IL-9) and Diane Watson (D, CA-33).\n\nCNN did a series of stories regarding 99ers.\n\nNews reports and interviews have been presented by various media outlets that include \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\" and PBS's \"NewsHour\". The 99er cause has been championed by Ed Schultz on his MSNBC television show, where he lashed out at Congress, and hosted the announcement of Senator Stabenow's 99er bill on his MSNBC television show (video) and his radio program and by Rachel Maddow on her television program where she replayed negative statements about the unemployed by Sharron Angle, Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Rep. Steve King, (R-IA), Rep. Dean Heller (R-NV), Lt. Gov. Andre Bauer (R-SC). Examiner\n\nBoth \"The New York Times\" and PBS NewsHour have covered the story.\n\nOn July 19, 2010, \"The Daily Beast\" published \"Get America Back to Work\" which has gathered signatures of prominent economists, academics, journalists and historians, including five Nobel Prize Laureates, in support of a statement calling for further stimulus to deal with long-term unemployment, citing Keynesian economics in support of their position: The article was signed by one hundred prominent economists, historians, academics and journalists, including: Joseph Stiglitz, Alan Blinder, John Cassidy, Lizabeth Cohen, Jim Hoge, Robert Reich, Richard Parker, Laura Tyson, Sir Harold Evans, Sean Wilentz, Kenneth Arrow, Peter Beinart, Sidney Blumenthal, Nancy Folbre, Simon Schama and Robert Solow (list).\n\nOn August 15, 2010, \"The Plain Dealer\" (Cleveland, Ohio) published an article entitled \"They're Known as 'the 99ers,' and their numbers are growing in Ohio and nationwide\".\n\nIn December 2010 the BBC ran a story about the 99ers titled \"What happens when your unemployment benefits stop?\" The article included the views of Heidi Shierholz \"We can kick people off and it will certainly make people more desperate to find a job. But in a labour market like this it's not going to make them more likely to find a job because the jobs aren't there.\" \n\nRepublican legislators insisted that additional unemployment benefits be paid for out of existing funds. This is a departure from how unemployment benefits have been funded in the past.\n\nDemocratic supporters of additional unemployment extensions have pointed out that Republicans who are calling for unemployment benefits to be paid for out of existing funds are, in some cases, the same legislators who insist the Bush tax cuts be renewed without funding. Republicans have countered the Bush tax cuts are stimulative and therefore do not require funding.\n\nThe requirement of a supermajority to bring bills to the floor has led to heated and controversial comments, including this exchange between Senators Jim Bunning (R-KY) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR), where Senator Merkley asked Senator Bunning to stop his repeated blocks of a unanimous consent motion to extend unemployment benefits, to which Senator Bunning replied: \"Tough shit.\"\n\nSeveral other politicians, lawmakers and commentators have made controversial statements portraying the long-term unemployed as lazy, unwilling to work, and/or on drugs, while some in favor of long term unemployment benefits have called opponents pro-death and pro-child hunger.\n\n\nOn May 24, 2010, Cynthia Tucker of the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", published: \"Unemployment benefits make people lazy? Not so\", where she reported how the economist Mark Zandi cited the lack of available jobs in response to a statement by Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH) that unemployment benefits discouraged the unemployed from looking for work.\n\nSeveral prominent economists have argued long term unemployment benefits are an incentive not to work, including President Obama's former White House economic adviser Lawrence Summers, who once wrote in the Concise Encyclopedia of Economics: \"The second way government assistance programs contribute to long-term unemployment is by providing an incentive, and the means, not to work. Each unemployed person has a 'reservation wage' — the minimum wage he or she insists on getting before accepting a job.\" A Brookings Institution panel on economic activity said in March 2010 that jobless insurance extensions \"correspond to between 0.7 and 1.8 percentage points of the 5.5 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate witnessed in the current recession.\" Alan Reynolds of the Cato Institute found nearly two percent of the current jobless rate is due to extensions of unemployment insurance and other federal policies.\n\n99ers have responded to these and similar statements with their own stories of repeated and unsuccessful job hunting efforts where the number of applicants have far exceeded the available positions. The Economic Policy Institute's data supports the 99ers' and Mark Zandi's position in their March 2010 report of an average of five applicants for each opening.\n\nThe Economic Policy Institute, using data provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, has verified that, as of September 2010, the U.S. economy would need to add 11.5 million jobs to make up for the shortfall due to the recession. In September 2010, the private sector added 64,000 jobs.\n\nProponents of benefits extension point out that corporations are sitting on approximately 1.8 trillion in cash while not hiring. MSNBC reported in June 2010, that, for 99ers, a job can feel like a mirage: The Economic Policy Institute's March 2010 report cites an average of five applicants for each job opening.\n\nJob postings with statements that only workers who are currently employed or those who've been unemployed for less than six months will be considered – thereby decreasing opportunities for the long-term unemployed – have been documented. \"The Huffington Post\", which has chronicled the phenomenon by combing through online employment listings on sites such as Craigslist and Monster.com, has found multiple listings that use the terms: \"Must be currently employed, \"no unemployed applicants will be considered\" or \"must have been employed within the last 6 months.\" \n\nAn employment recruiter for the search firm Goodwin and Associates told \"The Huffington Post\" that \"some companies think that the best people are already working\" and \"Maybe the ones looking for jobs for some reason had a problem, or were let go for a reason, or quit for a reason, but the people companies want are the type that already have a job.\"\n\nStatistics provided by the Economic Policy Institute and the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicate the majority of long-term unemployed who lost their jobs due to the recession have been let go through no fault of their own in mass lay-offs that were cited by their companies as having been for economic reasons.\n\nThe exclusionary jobs postings have prompted New Jersey Assemblyman Peter Barnes (D-Middlesex) to propose legislation that would impose fines of $10,000 per incident for companies that post job advertisements which say the unemployed shouldn't bother applying.\n\nThe Bureau of Labor Statistics has released a report on the long-term experience of the jobless which states that, while more younger workers were unemployed, the older worker was the most impacted by long-term unemployment, leading to concerns that ageism may factor in hiring discrimination.\n\nAs Hillary Clinton asserted during the summer of 2015, \"a quarter-century after passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act in 1990, it often remains difficult for persons with disabilities to gain access to meaningful and gainful employment\". Many, become \"99ers\", as they continue to be left out of the workforce, and for those who are employed, many are in under-stimulating jobs that don't fully utilize their talents and abilities\". Her major primary challenger, Bernie Sanders, the current U.S. Senator from Vermont, has also raised this issue as a major concern, stating in the summer of 2015: \"the real unemployment rate is much higher than the 'official' figure typically reported in the newspapers. When you include workers who have given up looking for jobs, or those who are working part time when they want to work full time, the real number is much higher than official figures would suggest.\"\n\nThe 99ers have begun to organize, both online and in rallies. 99ers have testified before Congress and have started numerous online sites from which to organize, meet others in their situation and to share links to resources.\n\nA rally sponsored by Unemployed Workers Action Group (UWAG.org) took place on Wall Street in New York City on August 12, 2010 to support the S.3706 Tier 5 unemployment extension bill. It was held at Federal Hall National Memorial, at 26 Wall Street in New York City. and was attended by MSNBC's Ed Schultz and NYC's Labor Commission Representative, John Noyes:\n\nOn September 16, 2010 a coalition of numerous 99er activist groups was formed to become one large united force to lobby Washington to pass legislation that would add weeks of benefits for all those who had exhausted all benefits without yet finding a job. They called themselves the American 99ers Union and have held a number of campaigns in which they encouraged thousands of 99er activists to fax, call and email Congress in support of a Tier 5 or other method of adding extended benefits for 99ers.\n\nAlso independent web-sites like http://fileunemployment.org/ and others have sprung up to help 99ers.\n"}
{"id": "18951345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18951345", "title": "A Man for All Seasons", "text": "A Man for All Seasons\n\nA Man for All Seasons is a play by Robert Bolt based on the life of Sir Thomas More. An early form of the play had been written for BBC Radio in 1954, and a one-hour live television version starring Bernard Hepton was produced in 1957 by the BBC, but after Bolt's success with \"The Flowering Cherry\", he reworked it for the stage.\n\nIt was first performed in London opening at the Globe Theatre (now Gielgud Theatre) on 1 July 1960. It later found its way to Broadway, enjoying a critically and commercially successful run of over a year. It has had several revivals, and was subsequently made into a multi-Academy Award-winning 1966 feature film and a 1988 television movie.\n\nThe plot is based on the historical events leading up to the execution of Sir Thomas More, the 16th-century Chancellor of England, who refused to endorse King Henry VIII's wish to divorce his wife Catherine of Aragon, who did not bear him a son, so that he could marry Anne Boleyn, the sister of his former mistress.\nThe play portrays More as a man of principle, envied by rivals such as Thomas Cromwell and loved by the common people and by his family.\n\nThe title reflects 20th century agnostic playwright Robert Bolt’s portrayal of More as the ultimate man of conscience. As one who remains true to himself and his beliefs while adapting to all circumstances and times, despite external pressure or influence, More represents \"a man for all seasons.\" Bolt borrowed the title from Robert Whittington, a contemporary of More, who in 1520 wrote of him:\n\n\"A Man for All Seasons\" struggles with ideas of identity and conscience. More argues repeatedly that a person is defined by his conscience. His own position is depicted as almost indefensible; the Pope is described as a \"bad\" and corrupt individual, forced by the Emperor Charles V to act according to his will. But as More says to Norfolk, \"What matters is not that it's true, but that I believe it; or no, not that I believe it, but that I believe it.\" More fears that if he breaks with his conscience, he will be damned to hell, while his associates and friends are more concerned with holding onto their own temporal power.\n\nAt another key point of the play, More testifies before an inquiry committee and Norfolk attempts to persuade him to sign the Succession to the Crown Act 1534 (pp. 78, Heinemann edition):\n\nNorfolk:\n\nMore:\n\nMore's persecution is made to seem even more unjust by the inclusion of Eustace Chapuys, the long-time Imperial ambassador to England, in the story. Chapuys recognizes More as a stout man of the church, and in Act II, after More's resignation from the Chancellorship, he informs More of a planned rebellion along the Scottish border, expecting More to be sympathetic. Instead, More informs Norfolk of the plot, showing him to be patriotic and loyal to the King. This, along with More's refusal to speak out against the King, shows him to be a loyal subject, and thus Cromwell appears to prosecute him out of personal spite and because he disagrees with the King's divorce.\n\nBolt also establishes an anti-authoritarian theme which recurs throughout his works. All people in positions of power – King Henry, Cromwell, Wolsey, Cranmer, Chapuys, even Norfolk – are depicted as being either corrupt, evil, or at best expedient and power-hungry. Bolt's later plays and film screenplays also delve into this theme. The theme of corruption is also illustrated, in Rich's rise to power, the Common Man being drawn into the events of the storyline, and in the (deliberately) anachronistic portrayal of Henry as a younger, athletic man (in 1530 he would have been almost forty and already putting on weight).\n\nAlthough it is the law that eventually forces More's execution, the play also makes several powerful statements in support of the rule of law. At one point More's future son-in-law, Roper, urges him to arrest Richard Rich, whose perjury will eventually lead to More's execution. More answers that Rich has broken no law, \"And go he should if he were the Devil himself until he broke the law!\" Roper is appalled at the idea of granting the Devil the benefit of law, but More is adamant.\n\nThe character of the Common Man serves as a narrator and framing device. A Brechtian character, he plays various small parts – More's servant, a publican, a boatman, More's jailer, jury foreman and executioner—who appear throughout the play, both taking part in and commenting on the action. Several sequences involving this character break the fourth wall—most notably, a sequence where the Common Man attempts to exit the stage and is addressed by Cromwell, who identifies him as a jury foreman. (Indeed, the \"jury\" consists of sticks or poles with the hats of the Common Man's various characters put on top.) The place of the Common Man in history is emphasized when he says in his opening speech,\n\n\"the sixteenth century was the century of the Common Man-like all the other centuries.\"\n\nBolt created the Common Man for two main reasons: to illustrate the place and influence of the average person in history, even though they are usually overlooked, and to try to prevent the audience from sympathising with the more titled characters such as More, realising that the audience is more closely related to him—a classic case of Brechtian alienation. The character's role in the story has been interpreted in many different ways by different critics, from being a positive to a negative character. Bolt's own view (expressed in the preface to the play) was that he was intended to draw the audience into the play and that \"common\" denoted \"that which is common to us all.\" Several of Bolt's subsequent works feature similar characters (e.g. \"The Thwarting of Baron Bolligrew,\" \"State of Revolution\").\n\nTwo different endings were written by Bolt. The original ending, performed during the show's preliminary run in England, had Cromwell and Chapuys confront each other after More's execution and then exit the stage, hand in hand, chuckling with \"the self-mocking, self-indulgent, rather rueful laughter of the men who know what the world is and how to be comfortable in it\".\n\nThis particular ending is exemplary of Bolt's notion of \"riding with the current\", as is demonstrated by \"men who know what the world is and how to be comfortable in it\", forsaking one's conscience in exchange of a life of \"convenience\". For the show's London production – and most, if not all, subsequent runs of the show – the Common Man sheds his executioner's garb and addresses the audience one final time:\n\nThe film version of the play ends with More's execution, followed by a narrator reading off the fates of the various characters involved (originally, this was dialogue spoken by the Common Man prior to the Tower of London Inquiry).\n\nPaul Scofield, who played the leading role in the West End premiere, reprised it on Broadway in 1961, winning a Tony Award. Both productions were directed by Noel Willman.\n\nThe original West End cast, playing at the Globe Theatre (now Gielgud Theatre), included:\n\nIn London, \"Man\" ran simultaneously to another of Bolt's plays, \"The Tiger and the Horse\". Both plays were major hits, although \"Horse\" was the more successful of the two. British critical reaction was largely positive, albeit reservedly so; few reviews at the time regarded the play as a classic. The show ran for 320 performances.\n\nIn the USA, the play was first performed on Broadway on 22 November 1961, at the ANTA Playhouse\n\nOriginal Broadway cast\n\nThe Broadway production was a huge hit, running for 620 performances. While the play had drawn mixed critical reviews in London, it was almost unanimously praised by the New York critics, who showered it with plaudits and awards.\n\nLeo McKern played the Common Man in the West End version of the show, but was shifted to the role of Cromwell for the Broadway production – a role he later reprised in the film. While playing Cromwell, he appeared with one brown and one blue eye (McKern of course had lost an eye in an accident and wore a glass one) to accentuate his character's evil nature.\n\nCharlton Heston played More in several versions of the play-off-Broadway in the 1970s and 1980s, eventually playing it on the West End. The play was a success and the West End production was taken to Aberdeen, Scotland, for a week where it was staged at His Majesty's Theatre. Heston considered it among his favourite roles. He also produced, directed, and starred in a film version of it (see below). The production gained a sort of notoriety when Dustin Hoffman spread the story that Heston, who was bald, was so vain that he wore a wig over his hairpiece, rather than let the public view his actual bald pate.\n\nAnother famous graduate of the play is Ian McKellen, whose first theatrical role was as Will Roper in a revival production in the late 1960s. He would go on to play More in a later run of the show. Faye Dunaway also made her stage debut as a replacement Margaret in the original Broadway run.\n\nAn acclaimed Canadian production starring William Hutt and directed by Walter Learning was presented at the Vancouver Playhouse and the Stratford Festival in 1986. At Stratford the production was paired with a production of Shakespeare's \"Henry VIII\", with both plays sharing many actors, and showing two perspectives on historical events.\n\nThe play was staged in London's West End at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket starring Martin Shaw and produced by Bill Kenwright. It closed on 1 April 2006.\n\nA Broadway revival of the show, produced by the Roundabout Theatre Company, starring Frank Langella as More and directed by Doug Hughes, played at the American Airlines Theatre through December 2008. In this production, the character of The Common Man was deleted by the director (as Bolt had done when adapting his play for the first film version).\n\nIn 2008, Thomas More was also portrayed on stage in Hong Kong as an allegorical symbol of the Pan-democracy camp resisting Chinese Communism when Hardy Tsoi, after translating \"A Man for All Seasons\", mainly into Cantonese, but also with some parts in Mandarin, Spanish, Latin, and English, produced it as a play within a play. Similarities were noted between More and contemporary pro-democracy politicians in Hong Kong such as Martin Lee and Szeto Wah, with the Vatican being seen as representing British colonialism while Henry VIII and his regime were seen as representing Communist China \"suppressing democracy and freedom\" in Hong Kong. According to Chapman Chen, Hardy Tsoi's version of the play is one of a number of Hong Kong works that suggest that mainstream postcolonial theories which invariably portray European colonialism as oppressive need to be \"modified or balanced\" to reflect the different experience of places like Hong Kong.\n\nThe play was adapted for Australian television in 1964.\nPaul Scofield, who played the leading role in the West End and Broadway stage premieres, played More again in the first of two film versions (1966), winning an Oscar in the process. The film also stars Robert Shaw as Henry VIII, Orson Welles as Wolsey, Corin Redgrave as Will Roper, Nigel Davenport as Norfolk, a young John Hurt as Richard Rich, and an older Wendy Hiller as Lady Alice, More's second wife. It was directed by Fred Zinnemann. In addition to the Best Actor Oscar won by Scofield, the film won Academy Awards for screenplay, cinematography, costume design, Best Director, and Best Picture.\n\nThe 1988 version starred Charlton Heston (who also directed it) as More, Vanessa Redgrave (who appeared briefly and mutely in the 1966 version as Anne Boleyn) as More's wife, and Sir John Gielgud as Cardinal Wolsey. By coincidence, Gielgud's name now graces the former Globe Theatre, where the original play premiered in 1960.\n\nThe play was produced, with the following cast, as the Saturday Night Theatre on BBC Radio 4 on 28 February 1959:\n\n\nThe play was produced, with the following cast, as the Saturday Play on BBC Radio 4 on 7 October 2006, as part of its Betrayal season:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5336158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5336158", "title": "AboveNet", "text": "AboveNet\n\nAboveNet was a provider of high bandwidth telecommunication circuits primarily for large corporate enterprises and communications carriers in 17 markets in the United States and four markets in Europe. Its private optical network delivered key network and IP services and was used in financial and legal services, media, health care, retail, and government.\n\nThe company was formerly named Metromedia Fiber Network and changed its name to AboveNet in 2003 after emerging from bankruptcy.\n\nBefore its bankruptcy in 2002, the company was financially backed by John Kluge and Verizon.\n\nIn 2012, the company was acquired by Zayo Group for $2.2 billion in cash.\n\nThe company was founded in 1993 as National Fiber Network. It initially focused on providing dark fiber to communications carrier customers in the U.S. and Europe. \n\nIn 1997, the company changed its name to Metromedia Fiber Network.\n\nIn 1999, Metromedia acquired Abovenet Communications, including its subsidiary PAIX, an operator of Internet peering exchanges. Abovenet Communications had become a public company via an initial public offering in December 1998 and soared 32% in one day in March 1999 during the dot-com bubble after announcing a stock split.\n\nIn 2000, the company acquired M.I.B.H., a networking consultancy operated by Paul Vixie, for $51 million in cash and stock.\n\nAlso in 2000, Verizon invested $970 million in convertible bonds and $715.4 million in common stock of the company.\n\nIn 2001, the company acquired SiteSmith, a provider of managed web-hosting services, for $1.36 billion in stock.\n\nIn May 2002, the company filed bankruptcy.\n\nIn September 2003, the company emerged from bankruptcy and changed its name to Abovenet, with Craig McCaw, Franklin Mutual Advisers, and John Kluge among its largest shareholders.\n\nIn October 2006, Digital Realty acquired the east coast data centers of the company for $40 million.\n\nIn 2007, the company acquired fiber from AT&T and Verizon that the companies were selling to comply with antitrust law.\n\nOn July 2, 2012, Zayo Group acquired the company for $2.2 billion in cash. \n"}
{"id": "51215957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51215957", "title": "Aleppo offensive (June–July 2016)", "text": "Aleppo offensive (June–July 2016)\n\nThe Aleppo offensive (June–July 2016) refers to a military operation launched on the northern outskirts of Aleppo in late June 2016, by the Syrian Army. The aim of the offensive was to cut the last rebel supply line into Aleppo city.\n\nThe offensive on 25 June, was preceded by heavy Russian air-strikes. Heavy ground bombardment was also involved before the ground offensive was launched. The pro-government al-Watan newspaper said the amount of firepower used was \"unprecedented,\" with local sources describing the fighting in the area as \"World War III\". Overall, heavy mortars, rocket launchers, airstrikes and tank fire were used. The Army attempted to advance in the northwestern part of the city, as well as in the Mallah farmlands to the north, near the Castello Road, the rebels' last supply route into Aleppo. Initially, the Army managed to capture several positions in the northwestern al-Zahra and al-Khalidiyah districts of Aleppo. By the next morning, over a 5-hour period, the Russian Air Force had conducted over 60 air-strikes against rebel positions.\n\nOn 26 June, the military made advances into the Mallah Farms, and by 28 June, they had captured half of the farmlands, including the Al-Asamat and Arab Salum areas. The advances brought the Castello Road within firing range of the military's artillery. Concurrently with the government's advances, the Russian Air Forces continued conducting heavy air-strikes, with just 30 strikes on the morning of 27 June, above the Handarat Mountains and Anadan Plains. Still, despite the advances, the Army was unable to advance by nightfall into the western and southern farms of Malaah, despite repeated attempts over the previous day. On 28 June, the military advanced in al-Khalidiyah towards the industrial zone of al-Layramoun and Bani Zeid.\n\nOn 29 June, an initial rebel counter-attack at Mallah was repelled. Still, later in the day, the rebels used two suicide car bombers, forcing the military to withdraw from all areas they had captured at Mallah. It was initially reported government forces had retreated to regroup for a new assault. However, subsequently it was stated it was a tactical retreat so to lure rebel forces into a trap and inflict maximum casualties. Following this, on 30 June, government forces managed to retake all positions they had lost the previous day.\n\nBetween 2 and 3 July, the Army advanced in the southern farms of Mallah, coming within two kilometers of cutting the Castelo Road. On 3 July, a Russian cruise missile reportedly destroyed a rebel TOW storage base in western Aleppo. The same day, the military captured the Shbeib factory and several nearby blocks in the al-Layramoun district of Aleppo. The following day, a rebel counter-attack, which included a suicide bomber, was repelled. At the same time, the Army captured more positions in the southern part of Mallah, bringing 65–75 percent of the farms area under its control. A new rebel counter-attack in Mallah was also repelled.\n\nAfter midnight on 7 July, amid heavy airstrikes, pro-government forces captured the southern part of Mallah and came within one kilometer of the Castello Road. They captured a mosque complex and a hill which overlook the Castello Road, thus enabling them to bring the road under artillery fire-control. This effectively cut off the only supply route to the rebel-held part of Aleppo. The rebels sent in reinforcements in an attempt to retake the area; however, an assault against the hill was repelled.\n\nOn 8 July, the Kurdish YPG launched an assault of their own from the Kurdish-held northern part of Aleppo city against the rebel-held Youth Housing Complex, located alongside the Castello Road. Meanwhile, the military made more advances in the Mallah area, coming within 250 meters of the Castello Road. Elsewhere in Aleppo city, rebel shelling of government-held areas killed 23–34 civilians and wounded 140–200.\n\nOn 9 July, the rebels launched a counter-attack against government positions near the Castello Road, which was led by two suicide car-bombers. Initially, the rebels recaptured some areas near the Castello Road, but subsequently lost them again, as the military managed to repel the attack. During the assault, the rebels were also confronted with mines placed by the military. Meanwhile, the Army advanced in the al-Layramoun and al-Khalidiyah districts. Later that night, heavy Russian air-strikes hit rebel forces along the road to the Mallah Farms, as the rebels were regrouping for a second attempt to reopen the Castello Road. A third suicide car-bomb was also used. By the following day, the rebel counter-attack at Mallah had been halted. Overall, 29–75 rebels were killed in the failed counter-attack, reportedly also including seven commanders.\n\nEarly on 10 July, government forces reportedly advanced in Bani Zeid. Furthermore, rebels claimed to have killed Haj Sameer Ali Awada, one of the most prominent Hezbollah commanders in Syria, during clashes in the northern Aleppo countryside. Hezbollah denied this, maintaining that he had died of illness in a Lebanese hospital.\n\nFollowing the failed attempt to reopen the Castello Road, there were reports of a crisis between the Army of Conquest and Fatah Halab due to disagreements over Aleppo. Jaysh al-Fateh reportedly wanted to stop the fighting at Mallah altogether and were trying to organize Fatah Halab, but little if anyone inside Aleppo wanted to accept orders from Idlib commanders, and therefore Jaysh al-Fateh's was losing patience as Aleppo commanders were preferring to lose men, ammunition and materials for what they saw as a lost battle. Jaysh al-Fateh wanted to begin an offensive south of Aleppo rather than at Mallah with a serious strategy, but Fatah Halab reportedly wouldn't agree to this.\n\nOn 11 July, the rebels made an attempt to relieve pressure on the Mallah front by attacking Aleppo's city center. The assault started with the detonation of a tunnel bomb that killed 19 soldiers. After the tunnel blast, a group of 7 rebel fighters emerged behind Army lines from another tunnel on a suicide mission to inflict maximum casualties. Initially, the rebels managed to capture 10 buildings before they were pushed back and the attack was ultimately repelled. Meanwhile, government troops made more advances towards the al-Layramoun roundabout, as they captured the Sadkop Gas Factory. Pro-government Palestinian militiamen were also reported to had captured several areas at the Handarat Camp.\n\nOn 12 July, the rebels made a diversionary attack on the Al-Breij front, in the northeast of Aleppo, and than conducted their main assault against Mallah again. Initially, they made some gains, including capturing a strategic hill. However, they were once again pushed back by heavy artillery fire and air-strikes by the next day. Meanwhile, the military made more progress in the Bani Zeid district.\n\nFollowing the second failed rebel counter-attack against the Castello Road, the Ahrar al-Sham rebel group, which had not participated in the offensive, criticized rebel forces who were attempting to retake the Mallah Farms by stating it was \"military suicide. It only yields defeat and collapsed morale\". Ahrar al-Sham was itself criticized by other rebel groups for not participating in the fighting.\n\nBy the evening of 13 July, the military secured the whole al-Khalidiyah district and most of the al-Layramoun industrial area, after capturing the last several rebel-held buildings in al-Khalidiyah, as well as al-Layramoun’s gas factory, market and glass factory. Three days later, the Army made a new advance, supported by Russian air-strikes, in the al-Layramoun district, while the rebels retook some positions in Bani Zeid.\n\nOn 17 July, the Army and Hezbollah reached the Castello Road, capturing parts of it and completely cutting it after taking control of Castello Hill. With this advance, the rebel-held part of Aleppo city was fully besieged and the al-Layramoun roundabout came under artillery fire-control. Government forces than proceeded to set up sandbag barriers on the road. Meanwhile, the military made more advances in the Bani Zeid and al-Layramoun areas, capturing most of the factories. Later in the day, a rebel counter-attack managed to retake some territory in the area of the Castello Road, but the road still remained cut. A rebel commander stated they do not have any tunnel or strategic stockpile to feed 300,000 people in the besieged areas. By 18 July, the rebel counter-attack on the Castello highway was repelled.\n\nOn 19 July, a government push against the Handarat Camp was underway, with fighting taking place around it, and the Army managed to advance in the area. The same day, al-Zenki Movement fighters recorded themselves beheading a Palestinian child named Abdallah Issa who was aged between 10 and 13. They claimed he had been fighting for the Syrian government in Aleppo with Liwa al-Quds. Liwa al-Quds denied this and claimed the child was a Palestinian refugee. The murder took place north of Aleppo in Handarat, in an unofficial Palestinian refugee camp named Ein El Tal. Following the beheading, the U.S State Department declared that if the video was genuine, they would stop sending Harakat Nour al-Din al-Zenki any military aid.\n\nOn 20 July, a new rebel counter-attack against the Castello Road was repelled. Three days later, the Army expanded its control in the al-Layramoun industrial area by capturing the Textile Factory and several nearby buildings. The same day, a tunnel bomb killed 38 pro-government fighters in a building used by government forces. Thuwwar al-Sham claimed responsibility.\n\nOn 25 July, government forces made major advances in the al-Layramoun district, as they were about to break through Fatah Halab's main line of defense in the area. During the day, they took control of 12 industrial buildings and two malls. In course of the clashes, Khattab Abou Ahmad, leader of the rebel Abu Amara Battalion, was killed. Meanwhile, the 16th Division's leadership resigned after the rebel group had suffered heavy casualties during the fighting at al-Layramoun; al-Masdar News considered this as a sign that the 16th Division was collapsing. Later that evening, as the Syrian Army advanced in al-Layramoun, the Tiger Forces captured two sites in and near the Castillo Complex, threatening to cut off the rebels remaining at Bani Zeid and al-Layramoun.\n\nOn 26 July, government forces captured all of the al-Layramoun District after heavy fighting for the last rebel stronghold there, the Bus Station. After also seizing the Al-Castillo Amusement Park and imposing fire control over Bani Zeid, the remaining rebel forces in Aleppo City were left almost completely besieged. At the same time, the Tiger Forces began clearing the last farms under Fatah Halab's control near Haritan in northwest Aleppo. The fighting was accompanied by extremely intense airstrikes on the opposition forces, which resulted in the death of Yassin Najjar, commander of the rebel Abu Amara Brigades.\n\nOn 27 July, rebel forces attacked the Kurdish-held areas of Aleppo, although their attack was repelled. The Kurds then proceeded to advance into the nearby rebel-held Bani Zeid Youth Housing neighborhood and captured the whole complex. Later that day, the Army officially declared it had cut off all rebel supply routes into Aleppo.\n\nOn 28 July, the military captured the Bani Zeid district, as well as the rebel-held parts of the Ashrafiyah district. The rebels withdrew from Bani Zeid before the main Army assault so to avoid heavy losses. The Army then continued to push its assault towards the Dahret Abdrubbah area. The following night, the Syrian Army and Liwa al-Quds attacked the Shaher District in the eastern sector of Handarat Refugee Camp, capturing a number of buildings and killing a large number of al-Zenki fighters, including a commander. Liwa al-Quds claimed that the attack served as revenge for Abdallah Issa, the child who had been beheaded by the rebel group.\n\nAt this point, Syrian President Bashar Assad offered a general amnesty to militants who surrender to the government authorities in the next three months. Meanwhile, Russian Defense Minister, Sergei Shoigu, said that President Putin ordered a large-scale humanitarian operation outside Aleppo ”to help civilians who were taken hostage by terrorists as well as fighters who wanted to lay down the arms.” Shoigu also mentioned that three humanitarian corridors as well as food and first aid points will be offered outside the city. The rebels prevented residents from fleeing through humanitarian corridors, with only a few residents being able to leave encircled opposition-held districts.\n\nOn 30 July, the Kurdish YPG captured the Shuqayyif Youth Housing area, next to the Castello Road. Meanwhile, several rebels from the 16th Division surrendered to the Syrian Army near the districts of Bani Zeid and Old Aleppo.\n"}
{"id": "4109723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109723", "title": "Alien Autopsy (film)", "text": "Alien Autopsy (film)\n\nAlien Autopsy is a 2006 British comedy film with elements of science fiction, directed by Jonny Campbell. Written by William Davies, it relates the events surrounding the famous \"alien autopsy\" film promoted by Ray Santilli and stars Ant McPartlin and Declan Donnelly, also known as Ant & Dec. The film was a moderate commercial success domestically, making no. 3 on the British box office chart.\n\nThe film is framed by Ray Santilli and his friend Gary Shoefield retelling the events to a documentary maker.\n\nIn 1995, Ray and Gary go to America to find Elvis memorabilia to sell on the market stall Ray runs in London. A former US Army cameraman, Harvey, sells them a silent black and white film of Elvis performing live, but later return with an intriguing offer. Harvey takes Ray to Miami, Florida to see a film from 1947 showing the autopsy of an alien supposedly killed in a UFO crash in Roswell, New Mexico. Harvey want to sell the film for $30,000.\n\nGary and Ray return to England to look for an investor to give them the money. Ray convinces Laszlo Voros, a Hungarian art dealer obsessed with crop circles, to give him the $30,000 and retrieves the film from Harvey. Back in England, the pair discover that the film has degraded from humidity and heat and is now completely unwatchable. In order to avoid serious repercussions from Voros, they decide to make their own recreation of it. They base the content on Ray's memories of the original, and, with the help of some friends, fashion a convincing replica of the dead alien using a mannequin and meat products obtained from a friend's butcher's shop, turn the living room of Gary's sister into a film set, and shoot the film on a Bell and Howell spring-wound camera. Ray gives a copy of the final product to Voros, who believes it to be real.\n\nHaving convinced Voros, Ray and Gary decide to sell the film to other venues, earning them a large sum of money. However, when Voros hears about its international distribution, he demands 80% of the profits. A potential clash is averted when Voros killed by a green Land Rover while standing naked in the middle of a crop circle, leading to speculation that he has been killed by a CIA agent.\n\nRay and Gary travel to Argentina to promote the film, followed by reporter Amber Fuentes, who seduces Ray. She eventually tracks down Harvey, who demands from Ray and Gary that they maintain his anonymity. To fulfil this obligation, they produce an interview with a homeless former actor playing Harvey, which convinces Amber. She remains sceptical, however, about the film's authenticity.\n\nRay and Gary are now persuaded that some of the original 1947 footage might actually be recovered by film restoration experts in order to be viewed. However, after viewing the results, the pair bury the film, telling each other that they cannot continue with the endeavour.\n\n\nThe film also contains brief appearances by Ray Santilli, Todd Sherry and Gary Shoefield.\n\nThe film received mainly positive reviews earning a 71% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nThe film was released as a Region 2 DVD by Warner Home Video on 3 July 2006.\nIn America, the film was released as a Region 1 DVD by Warner Home Video on 21 September 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26763006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26763006", "title": "Amanullah Asaduzzaman", "text": "Amanullah Asaduzzaman\n\nAmanullah Mohammad Asaduzzaman (10 June 1942 – 20 January 1969) was a student activist whose death at the hands of police during an unlawful protest on 20 January 1969 \"changed the nature of the student-mass movement and ... turned into a mass-upsurge against the Ayub regime and its repressive measures\", according to Banglapedia. \"The Daily Star\" reports him as one of three martyrs of the 1969 uprising in East Pakistan which \"set the stage for the liberation war\". He was awarded Independence Day Award in 2018 posthumously by the Government of Bangladesh.\n\nBorn in Shibpur, Asaduzzaman graduated from Shibpur High School in 1960 and subsequently studied at Jagannath University (then known as Jagannath College) and Murari Chand College. After passing the latter in 1963, he entered the University of Dhaka, receiving a Bachelor of Arts (Hons.) in 1966 and a Masters of Arts in 1967. In that year, he organised the Krishak Samity in Shibpur, Monohardi, Raipura and Narsingdi areas at the direction of Maulana Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani, President of National Awami Party and Krishak Samity.\n\nAfter studying at City Law College in Dhaka, Asaduzzaman sat in 1968 for a second M.A. exam in an effort to receive a better result. At the time of his death in 1969, he was in the final year of his M.A. at Dhaka University's Department of History. He was the president of the Dhaka Hall unit of East Pakistan Students Union and General Secretary of the Dhaka branch of what was at the time the East Pakistan Students Union (EPSU, Menon group).\n\nIn his political activities, Asaduzzaman was interested in the educational rights of the poor and powerless. He founded a night school named Shibpur Naisha Biddalaya and collected funds for setting up a college (Shibpur College) for local people.\n\nThe catalyst for the events leading to Asaduzzaman's death include the Six point movement of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and the Agartala Conspiracy Case at which Rahman and dozens of others were charged with sedition by the Government of Pakistan. Student groups were already experiencing considerable unrest when, in December 1968, Maulana Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani organised a march against the Governors House, in conjunction with several labour associations arranged a Repression Resistance Day on 6 December 1968, and proclaimed a hartal against merchants. On 4 January 1969, an 11-point programme—an expansion of Rahman's six-point movement—was publicised by a coalition of student group leaders, including the group for which Asaduzzaman served as an officer. In a meeting at Dhaka University on 17 January 1969, student protestors decided to unite all campuses of East Pakistan on 20 January 1969, in strike. Governor Monem Khan sought to prevent the action by imposing Section 144 on the students, under which no more than four persons were permitted to assemble.\n\nAt around noon on 20 January 1969, the students enacted their planned protest, with a procession in front of Dhaka Medical College Hospital heading towards Chan Khar Pool. Police charged near Chand Khan's bridge, but the protestors resisted. About an hour into the conflict, Asaduzzaman and other student leaders tried to continue the procession. Asaduzzaman was shot from very close range by a police officer. Seriously injured, Asaduzzaman was admitted to the hospital, where he was declared dead.\n\nThousands of students and common people mourned Asaduzzaman together in procession, carrying his blood-stained shirt to Shaheed Minar. The Central Action Committee announced the 22, 23 and 24 January as a \"mourning-period\" for him, also striking on those days. On the final day, police once again opened fire. As a result, the administration of Field Marshal Ayub Khan was forced to terminate within two months from the day Asad died.\n\nIn many places of the country, people replaced the nameplates of Ayub Khan with the name of Shaheed Asad. In time, Ayub Gate was renamed Asad Gate, Ayub Avenue as Asad Avenue and Ayub Park as Asad Park.\n\nIn 1970, on the first Asad Day, people constructed a monument, Unsatturer Gono-aubyuthaner Swarak O Aumor Asad, at the point in front of the central gate of Dhaka Medical College Hospital where Asad was shot dead. The local people of Shibpur and Dhanua established Shibpur Shaheed Asad College in 1970. In 1991, the inhabitants of Asad's own village Dhauna founded Shaheed Asad Collegiate Girls School and College.\n\nShaheed Asad Day is observed on 20 January each year in recognition of Shaheed Asad's sacrifice, which led the nation towards mass upsurge and independence.\n"}
{"id": "2677157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677157", "title": "Aranmula Boat Race", "text": "Aranmula Boat Race\n\nThe Aranmula Boat Race the oldest river boat fiesta in Kerala, the south western State of India is held during Onam (August–September). It takes place at Aranmula, near a Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Krishna and Arjuna in Pathanamthitta district of Kerala State. The snake boats move in pairs to the rhythm of full-throated singing and shouting watched by an exciting crowd. In 1972, snake boat races were also added to the program of the festival. Thousands of people gather on the banks of the river Pampa to watch the snake boat races. In 2009 forty one snake boats or chundan vallams had participated in the festival. The oarsmen sing traditional boat songs and wear white mundu and turbans. The golden lace at the head of the boat, the flag and the ornamental umbrella at the center make it a show of pageantry too.\n\nAranmula is about 128 km from Trivandrum, capital city of Kerala. It is situated on the banks of the river Pampa in Pathanamthitta district of Kerala. The famous temple at Aranmula is dedicated to Sree Parthasarathy of Lord Krishna as the divine charioteer of Arjuna. A rough estimate puts the age of this temple to 1700 years.\n\nPalliyodams are Aranmula’s unique snake boats (‘’Chundan Vallam’’) which devotees hold in reverence, considering it as the divine vessel of the presiding deity in Sree Parthasarathy temple. These Palliyodams belong to different ‘’karas’’ (rustic parts) on the banks of river Pampa. Each one will usually have 4 helmsmen, rowers and singers. It is decorated with golden lace. There will be a flag and two or three ornamental umbrellas.\n\nLocating a suitable tree preferably Anjili, cutting it down and bringing to the location for construction is the first step. Selecting an auspicious day and time work begins. All these are according to Vedas, an ancient treatise on building of wooden boats. These boats are about 100 to 138 ft in length, with the rear portion towering to a height of about 20 ft. and a long tapering front portion. When completed it resembles a snake with its hood raised. Its hull is built of planks precisely 83 feet in length and six inches wide.\n\nEvery year the boats are oiled mainly with fish oil, coconut shell, and carbon, mixed with eggs to keep the wood strong and the boat slippery in the water. The village carpenter carries out annual repairs and people take pride in their boat, which is named after and represents their village.\n\n\nTraditionally it will be commanded by a Kaarnavan / Karanaadhan (Village leader) with \"First Adanayampu\" and under him there will be three main oarsmen who control the movement of the boat with 12 feet long main rudder-oar (Adanayampu). Sitting two in row along the length of the Boat there will be the oarsmen, They row in rhythm of the vanchipattu (boatman's song). Standing on the platform in the middle of the boat, the main singer will lead the vanchipattu. A few singers will be with the main leader while others will stand at the middle between the oarsmen.\n\nThe singers lead the ‘’Vanchipattu’’ (song) which the oarsmen will repeat and they move the oars in circular form according to its rhythm. Usually the selection will be from ‘’Kuchela vrythom Vanchipattu.’’\n\nExample: (in Malayalam)\nNote that The oar should make one full circle between the dashes (-).\n\nA number of colourful festivals rich in traditions are held at Aranmula temple every year. The most important festival is the traditional palliyodam regatta (boat festival). Three important events take place in which the Palliyodams participate. All these are solemn religious custom and there were no competitive races.\n\nOn ‘’Thiruvonam’’ day people of Kerala celebrate it with a feast. Aranmula celebrations begin with the arrival of Thiruvonathoni (special boats) from Kattoor. For a sumptuous meal for the Lord at Aranmula, a boat with the necessary provisions, and an ever-burning lamp, set off its journey from the temple at Kattoor at 6 pm so that it could reach Aranmula temple by 4 am the next day, the Thiruonam day. At 6 pm long main rudder-oar (Adanayampu) will be presented to the temple at Kattoor and then it will be handed over to the leading oarsman. Mr. Bhattathiri of Mangaatt Illam with 18 men will get into the boat and it will begin its journey to Aranmula. The boat is expected to float according to the speed of the current. The sound of the nagaswaram (musical pipe) could be heard from a distance. People from all walks of life, age and religion will assemble on the river bank and they will float lighted lamps on the river welcoming the Thiruvonathoni. It is believed that the palliyodams were built to protect this Thiruvonathoni. So early morning on Thiruvonam day all these palliyodams will accompany the Thiruvonathoni.\n\nIt is considered that ‘’Uthrittathi’’ day is the anniversary of the installation of the idol consecrated in the south, by Pandavas. So on that day, there will be a Snake boat regatta in front of the Aranmula temple.\n\nAnother important event is the \"Aranmula Vallasadya’’ (banquet). It is served to the oarsmen of snake boats at the Parthasarthy temple premises and at nearby dining hall and auditorium. it starts in mid july (karkitakam) and will last till September.( kanni month) \n254 vallasadyas were held in 2008 besides the mega feast on Ashtami Rohini. For this mega feast as many as 50,000 people from different parts of the state took part. Rice with 68 side dishes were served at the Sadya on banana leaves including the following side dishes. \nValla sadya is performed with a strict style. First, one who offers the feast has to invite the \"karanathan\". On the day he has to put two 'nirapara's down the 'kodimaram' flag post, with betel, and tobacco and aracca nut. Around 11 o'clock the boat people will come in the decorated boat with vallapattu. They are welcomed with thalappoli and these offerings, and are marched with rhythmic slogans first in front to the god and then to the separate hall arranged for the feast. They are treated with whatever they ask, and after the feast they are sent back following up to the river.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37060890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37060890", "title": "Bankocracy", "text": "Bankocracy\n\nBankocracy (from the English word bank and Ancient Greek κράτος - \"kratos\", \"power, rule\") or trapezocracy (from Greek τράπεζα - \"trapeza\", \"bank\") is a polemic term referring to the excessive power or influence of banks on public policy-making. It can also refer to a form of government where financial institutions rule society.\n\nOne of the first uses of the term was by British Member of Parliament William Fullarton (1754–1808), who in a parliamentary debate on April 10, 1797 characterized the monopoly of the Bank of England as being a more important issue to solve than the peace attempts to end the war against France: \n\nUnited States Senator Robert J. Walker (1801–1869), a staunch opponent of the Bank of the United States, delivered a speech in the Senate on January 21, 1840, where he warned that the acceptance of paper money as legal tender would \"overthrow the Constitution, subvert the liberties of the country, and the rights of the people, and establish the reign of a bankocracy, more sordid, ruinous, and despotic, than that of any monarch, however absolute.\"\n\nPierre-Joseph Proudhon used the term in his work \"Les Confessions d’un révolutionnaire\" (1849), in reference to the July Monarchy:\nThe term was also used by Karl Marx in his work \"Das Kapital, Kritik der politischen Ökonomie\" (1867). He theorizes the birth of national debt as the catalyst for the primitive accumulation of capital: \n\nIn Marxian economics, the term cognates with finance capitalism in general.\n\nNumerous political observers and journalists have used the term when describing or commenting on the 2007–2012 global financial crisis.\n"}
{"id": "1272142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1272142", "title": "Carrollton bus collision", "text": "Carrollton bus collision\n\nThe Carrollton bus collision occurred on May 14, 1988, on Interstate 71 in unincorporated Carroll County, Kentucky. Involving a former school bus in use by a church youth group and a pickup truck driven by an impaired driver, the head-on collision was the deadliest incident involving drunk driving and the third-deadliest bus crash in United States history. Of the 67 people on the bus (counting the driver), there were 27 fatalities in the accident, the same number as the 1958 Prestonsburg, Kentucky, bus disaster and behind the 1976 Yuba City bus disaster (29) and 1963 Chualar bus crashes (32).\n\nIn the aftermath of the disaster, several family members of victims became active leaders of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), and one (Karolyn Nunnallee) became national president of the organization. The standards for both operation and equipment for school buses and similar buses were improved in Kentucky and many other states. These include an increased number of emergency exits, higher standards for structural integrity, and the use of less volatile diesel fuel (over gasoline). On Interstate 71, the crash site is marked with a highway sign erected by the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet (KYTC).Memorial items such as crosses and flower arrangements are regularly placed at the site by families and friends.\n\nOn May 14, 1988, a youth group consisting of mostly teenagers who attended North Hardin High School, James T. Alton Middle School, Radcliff Middle School and four adults from Assembly of God in Radcliff, Kentucky boarded their church activity bus and headed to Kings Island theme park in Mason, Ohio (north of Cincinnati, about 170 miles from Radcliff). The group included church members and their invited guests. As everyone arrived early that Saturday morning, those wanting to go on the trip had grown to more than originally anticipated. The church's principal pastor (who stayed behind) restricted the ridership to the legal limit of 66 persons plus the driver.\n\nThe church bus involved in the crash was a conventional type body-on-chassis school bus model. The 1977 Ford B700 school bus chassis was equipped with a Superior school bus body, a model with 11 rows of wide seats on either side of a central aisle wide. The bus was ordered by the Kentucky Department of Schools in 1976, as part of an order of over 600 units for districts throughout the state.\n\nThe chassis was manufactured at Ford's expansive Kentucky Truck Plant located in Louisville and then was shipped to Lima, Ohio, where the body was installed at Superior Coach Company, a company owned by industrial conglomerate Sheller-Globe Corporation. It was certified as a \"school bus\" with an effective build date of \"March 23, 1977,\" which is when the chassis began production, as required by federal regulations. Both the vehicle type and the build date were important legal distinctions. March 23 was just nine days before fuel tank guard frames and greater access to emergency exits and a number of other improved safety standards, notably better clear space access to rear emergency exits, were required by revised federal regulations on all school buses built for use in the U.S. with beginning production dates of the chassis on or after April 1 of that year.\n\nThe completed bus was delivered in time for use during the 1977-78 school year, and served ten years in use as a school bus. Radcliff Assembly of God acquired the used school bus as surplus from the Meade County school district, and it had been owned by the church for about one year. In use with the church, the bus had successfully made the same round-trip to Kings Island in July 1987, was used daily for short local moves on school days, and had made several other long trips. It was checked over regularly by mechanically-inclined church members, including a civilian motor pool supervisor from nearby Fort Knox. Two new tires of a good commercial quality had been installed a week before the ill-fated trip, and front end suspension and steering parts examined at that time. By all indications, the bus was in good condition mechanically on May 14, 1988.\n\nOn the trip, the bus was driven by John Pearman, a part-time associate pastor of the church who was a local court clerk. The group left the church early that morning and traveled uneventfully to the park. They spent the whole day and early evening at Kings Island, then boarded the bus and began traveling out of Ohio and back into Northern Kentucky toward Radcliff. After about an hour, they stopped to fill the 60-gallon (227-litre) fuel tank with gasoline, then resumed the trip southward.\n\nAt 10:55 p.m., while heading south on Interstate 71 outside of Carrollton, Kentucky, the bus collided almost head-on with a black Toyota pickup truck which was traveling the wrong way (north in the southbound lanes) at a high speed on a curved stretch of the highway. The small truck was driven by Larry Wayne Mahoney, a 34-year-old factory worker who was intoxicated.\n\nThe right front of the pickup truck struck the right front of the bus, breaking off the bus's suspension and driving the leaf spring backward into the gas tank mounted behind an exterior panel but outside the heavier frame, just behind the step well for the front door rendering the door inoperative. Leaking gasoline from the punctured fuel tank was ignited by sparks caused from metal parts of the suspension scraping along the road. As the seat covers and the highly flammable polyurethane foam padding ignited, the temperature inside the bus rose to an estimated 2,000 degrees and a thick cloud of noxious smoke enveloped the area from the ceiling down to seat level within a minute or two creating unsurvivable flash fire conditions.\n\nNobody aboard the bus was seriously injured by the actual collision between the two vehicles (though both vehicle drivers sustained injuries). However, the impact of the collision created a secondary situation, as the right front suspension of the Ford chassis broke off through the bus stepwell, puncturing the gasoline fuel tank and igniting the fuel supply. To quickly evacuate the bus in smoke and darkness, all 67 individuals could only use a single designated point of exit: the rear emergency door. In total, 26 passengers and the bus driver died, 34 passengers were injured, and 6 passengers escaped the bus without serious injury. Larry Mahoney, the driver of the Toyota pickup, sustained injuries from the collision.\n\nAlmost all of the occupants of the bus began trying to exit through the single rear emergency door. Exceptions were the driver, one chaperone who was said by many survivors to have tried to douse the flames with the fire extinguisher of the bus, and another chaperone, a small-bodied woman who managed to squeeze out a window opening on the left side immediately adjacent to her seating position near the front. Of the four adults aboard the bus, she was the only survivor. Attempts by some of the other passengers to break or kick out any of the split-sash type side windows were unsuccessful.\n\nAccording to the NTSB investigation, more than 60 persons trying to reach the only available exit—the rear emergency door—created a crush of bodies in the aisle. Many passengers found themselves unable to move. A beverage cooler which had been earlier placed in the aisle near row 10 (of 11 rows of seats) further exacerbated this problem.\n\nPassersby and some of the escaped passengers helped to extract immobilized children through the rear door, and help them to ground level about below. Soon the entire interior of the bus flashed over, ultimately burning the trapped 27 people remaining aboard. At that point, no more passengers were accessible from outside the bus. Emergency vehicles had not yet arrived.\n\nWhen fire first broke out immediately after the collision, bus driver John Pearman tried to put it out with a small fire extinguisher while passengers began to evacuate through the center rear emergency door, squeezing through the narrow opening between the two rear seats and jumping approximately 3 feet to the ground. The front door was blocked by collision damage, and there were no emergency exit windows or roof hatches, as found on commercial buses and some school buses of the time. Only one adult, a woman who was of small stature, managed to escape through a nine-inch opening side window. When she looked back up from the ground, the window opening was filled with flames. The other three adults aboard, including Pearman, died.\n\nSurvivors stated that after emptying the small fire extinguisher, Pearman helped some of the many children find their way down the narrow and dark aisle to the only practical way out of the smoke-filled bus. Several older boys attempted to kick out side windows without success. A pileup of passengers formed in and adjacent to the twelve inch aisle leading to the rear door, which was partially blocked by seat backs from the last row and a cooler stored in the aisle near row 10.\n\nMany of those who made it to the area adjacent to the rear door were wedged in so tightly that passersby had to help pull children out from the human jam at the rear emergency door by force. However, within four minutes or less, the entire bus was on fire, and soon the exodus of passengers stopped. At that point, the passersby who had stopped to help could not reach those still aboard due to the raging fire, and turned their efforts to tending to the crowd of 40 mostly injured survivors.\n\nAfter fire, rescue, and Kentucky State Police troopers responded to the scene, treated and transported survivors, and extinguished the fire, a crane was used to load the bus onto a flatbed truck that transported the bus and those persons killed to the National Guard Armory in Carrollton. There, the KSP and the Carroll County coroner went through the interior of the bus seat by seat to find and remove bodies. Most of the bodies were burned beyond recognition. Many bodies were found facing the only exit, the rear door. The coroner later determined that none of the bus occupants suffered broken bones or mortal injuries from the crash impact; all had died from the fire and smoke.\n\nAmong the bus survivors, one person's leg from just below the knee had to be amputated, and about ten others suffered disfiguring burns. Only 6 bus passengers were uninjured and virtually all suffered varying degrees of emotional trauma and survivor guilt syndrome. When authorities were able to tally the counts from the various hospitals and the bodies aboard the bus, and autopsies had been conducted, it was determined that 27 persons had been killed by the fire, and another 34 aboard the bus injured, as well as the pickup truck driver who was also injured. As of February 2010, this collision had the highest death and injury toll of any school bus crash in United States history; a crash near Prestonsburg, Kentucky in 1958 also claimed 27 lives, but there were not as many additional injuries.\n\nThe National Transportation Safety Board responded, conducted an investigation and issued a report on March 28, 1989.\n\nThe NTSB determined that \"the probable cause of the collision between the pickup truck and the church activity bus was the alcohol-impaired condition of the pickup truck driver who operated his vehicle opposite to the direction of traffic flow on an interstate highway.\"\n\nA contributing factor to the crash itself and the severity seemed to be loopholes between the laws and procedures for a school bus and those involving the same vehicle after it was released from school service, but continued to be used for transporting passengers in non-school use. (Had the bus been built new in March 1977 for the non-school use such as a church activity bus, the applicable federal motor vehicle standards in place at that time would have required it to have been built with more emergency exits than were required for school buses). One of the NTSB recommendations after the Carrollton Bus Disaster was that school buses have no fewer emergency exits than required of non-school buses.\n\nSome states also require that the usually different seating capacities for children and adults be displayed near the service door of school buses and non-school buses. Most states consider secondary school (middle and high school) age students to be adults with regards to the space occupied in bus seats and aisles by their bodies.\n\nMahoney had been arrested for DUI once before. His blood alcohol concentration (BAC) the night of the crash was .24 percent—substantially more than the 1988 Kentucky legal limit of .10. Mahoney had no memory of the crash and learned of the collision after waking in the hospital the next day.\n\nHe was sentenced to imprisonment for 16 years after a jury of the Carroll Circuit Court, under Indictment No. 88-CR-27, convicted him of 27 counts of manslaughter in the second degree, 16 counts of assault in the second degree, and 27 counts of wanton endangerment in the first degree. At trial, he was represented by the Cleveland, Ohio criminal defense lawyer, William L. Summers. On appeal, in Case No. 1988-CA-1635, Judge Anthony M. Wilhoit of the Kentucky Court of Appeals reversed Mahoney's conviction for drunk driving on the grounds that it constituted double jeopardy under the Kentucky Constitution, ruling that the 27 counts of manslaughter in the second degree subsumed the drunk driving conviction. The court ruled that, under Kentucky law, the elements of drunk driving were substantially similar to those of manslaughter. This meant that Mahoney's driver's license could be reinstated, even during his imprisonment. The Kentucky Supreme Court subsequently reversed this line of reasoning in another case, \"Justice v. Commonwealth\", 987 S.W.2d 306 (Ky. December 17, 1998). On May 6, 1992, the Kentucky Supreme Court denied review of Mahoney's appeal in Case No. 1992-SC-98.\n\nAt the Kentucky State Reformatory, Mahoney worked in the medium-security facility as a janitor. He earned his GED high school equivalency diploma and participated in Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous programs. Described by authorities as a model prisoner, Mahoney reduced his incarceration by six years with good behavior, known under Kentucky law as \"good time\" credit. He declined the Kentucky Parole Board's parole recommendation and served out his sentence, before leaving the prison in La Grange, on September 1, 1999, having served 10 years and 11 months. Local television stations broadcast video of him walking out of the prison.\n\nThat week, according to a published account in \"The Courier-Journal\" (Louisville), some survivors of the crash and families of the victims had said that they were willing to forgive Mahoney though the disaster marked forever the congregation of the First Assembly of God, which had many members on the bus. \"I feel a little bit sorry for him\", Katrina Henderson, then 23, told \"The Courier-Journal\" in 1998. \"He didn't wake up one day and say 'I'm going to kill 27 people.' That's not to take any blame away from him. I think that he is a person who made some very bad choices and he paid for those choices\", said Henderson, who was age 12 when she survived the wreck. The victims were members of a church, and many felt called by their religious beliefs to forgive him.\n\nDuring his trial, the idea was discussed that Mahoney could save lives by talking to school groups, but Mahoney has so far declined.\n\nAccording to a story by \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" in 2003, Mahoney was living in quiet, self-imposed obscurity in rural Owen County, Kentucky, about from the crash site.\n\nThe collision riveted the nation's attention on the problem of drunken driving as never before and has been credited in part with causing the steady decline in the number of alcohol-related fatalities.\n\nOne of the victims, the youngest killed on the fatal bus, was ten-year-old Patricia \"Patty\" Susan Nunnallee. Patty's mother, Karolyn Nunnallee became an active member of MADD after the crash, eventually becoming MADD's national president. Patty's mother wrote on MADD's memorial web page to Patty: \"They were traveling on a school bus, so I thought she'd be safe\".\n\nJaney Fair, whose 14-year-old daughter Shannon was killed, become a national volunteer for MADD, and rose within the organization to become a member of the Board of Directors. She was also head of the Kentucky Victims Coalition. According to the MADD website, \"MADD helped me find my inner strength and see that life could go on,\" Janey said. \"I have found I can make real changes in people's attitudes about drinking and driving and in how our government addresses this critical problem. Additionally, I can help other victims move forward in their lives.\" Her husband also became active locally in MADD.\n\nJoy Williams, wife of Lee Williams, a pastor of the church, and their two young daughters, Kristen and Robin, were among those killed. Dotty Pearman's husband, John Pearman was associate pastor at the church and the bus driver, was also killed while their daughter, Christy, was involved in the crash and survived.\n\nIn the year after the crash, Lee Williams and Dotty Pearman, who barely knew each other before the crash, became friends and eventually married.\n\nLee and Dotty Williams also volunteer for MADD. Lee is a former chapter president of MADD in Hardin County, Kentucky, and Dotty is the current president. The couple often speaks to school groups, assists with health fairs and participates in other local events. \"If I can persuade one person not to drink and drive, I've won\", said Dotty. \"I especially think it is important to educate children early on about the dangers of drinking and driving. We need to address the issue of alcohol with youth before it becomes a problem.\"\n\nKentucky now requires all school buses to have nine emergency exits—more than any other federal or state standard. This includes front and back doors, a side door, four emergency windows and two roof exits. The bus that crashed at Carrollton had only front and back exits, and 11 rows of 39\" seats, including the crucial area near the rear door.\n\nBuses used by Kentucky schools must also have a cage around the fuel tank, a stronger frame and roof to resist crumpling on impact and rollover, high-backed seats, extra seat padding, a fuel system that slows leaks, flame-retardant seats and floors, reflective tape on all emergency exits, an 8\" wide black band with the district name in white letters on the side, and strobe lights on the exterior. Schools also must have a diesel-powered fleet. (Unlike gasoline, diesel fuel is not highly flammable.)\n\nIn 1991, Kentucky enacted stricter drunk driving laws.\n\nFord Motor Company paid for a black marble memorial in North Hardin Memorial Gardens Cemetery in Radcliff, Kentucky. The stone lists the names of all of the persons who were aboard the bus during the crash.\n\nThe Kentucky Department of Transportation has 2 small signs, 1 in each direction of I-71, reading \"SITE OF FATAL BUS CRASH MAY 14, 1988\" at the site of the crash. There has been some controversy over the signs.\n\nAmong the many media agencies that provided thorough coverage, \"The Courier-Journal\" of Louisville, Kentucky received the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for General News Reporting for its coverage.\n\nFollowing the NTSB report, and much sooner in many instances, many federal, state, and local agencies and bus manufacturers changed regulations, vehicle features, and operating practices.\n\nMothers Against Drunk Driving, a grassroots organization, worked both before and after the Carrollton crash to reduce the hazards created by drunk (or drinking) drivers. Two mothers of Carrollton victims became national president and vice president of the organization.\n\nThere was considerable civil litigation. Ford Motor Company, Sheller-Globe Corporation, and others eventually contributed to settlements with all victims and/or their families.\n\nThe collision and its aftermath, including efforts of some of the families to obtain more than financial settlements, were chronicled by author James S. Kunen in his 1994 book \"Reckless Disregard: Corporate Greed, Government Indifference, and the Kentucky School Bus Crash\".\n\nThe Carrollton bus crash is the subject of the 2013 documentary film \"Impact After the Crash\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16526673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16526673", "title": "Catherine de' Medici's patronage of the arts", "text": "Catherine de' Medici's patronage of the arts\n\nCatherine de' Medici's patronage of the arts made a significant contribution to the French Renaissance. Catherine was inspired by the example of her father-in-law, King Francis I of France (reigned 1515–1547), who had hosted the leading artists of Europe at his court. As a young woman, she witnessed at first hand the artistic flowering stimulated by his patronage. As governor and regent of France, Catherine set out to imitate Francis's politics of magnificence. In an age of civil war and declining respect for the monarchy, she sought to bolster royal prestige through lavish cultural display.\n\nAfter the death of her husband, Henry II, in 1559, Catherine governed France on behalf of her young sons King Francis II (1559–60) and King Charles IX (1560–74). Once in control of the royal purse, she launched a program of artistic patronage which lasted for three decades. She continued to employ Italian artists and performers, including the artist-architect Primaticcio. By the 1560s, however, a wave of home-grown talent—trained and influenced by the foreign masters brought to France by Francis—came to the fore. Catherine patronised these new artists and presided over a distinctive late French-Renaissance culture. New forms emerged in literature, architecture, and the performing arts. At the same time, as art historian Alexandra Zvereva suggests, Catherine became one of the great art collectors of the Renaissance.\n\nAlthough Catherine spent ruinous sums on the arts, the majority of her patronage had no lasting effect. The end of the Valois dynasty shortly after her death brought a change in priorities. Her collections were dispersed, her palaces sold, and her buildings were left unfinished or later destroyed. Where Catherine had made her mark was in the magnificence and originality of her famous court festivals. Today's ballets and operas are distantly related to Catherine de' Medici's court productions.\n\nAn inventory drawn up at the Hôtel de la Reine after Catherine de' Medici's death shows that she was a keen collector of art and curiosities. Works of art included tapestries, hand-drawn maps, sculptures, and hundreds of pictures, many by Côme Dumoûtier and Benjamin Foulon, Catherine's last official painters. There were rich fabrics, ebony furniture inlaid with ivory, sets of china (probably from Bernard Palissy's workshop), and Limoges pottery. Curiosities included fans, dolls, caskets, games, pious objects, a stuffed chameleon, and seven stuffed crocodiles.\n\nBy the time of Catherine's death in 1589, the Valois dynasty was in a terminal crisis; it became extinct with the death of Henry III only a few months later. Catherine's properties and belongings were sold off to pay her debts and dispersed with little ceremony. She had hoped for a far different posterity. In 1569, the Venetian ambassador had identified her with her Medici forebears: \"One recognises in the queen the spirit of her family. She wishes to leave a legacy behind her: buildings, libraries, collections of antiquities\". Despite the destruction, loss, and fragmentation of Catherine's heritage, a collection of portraits formerly in her possession has been assembled at the Musée Condé, Château de Chantilly.\n\nThe vogue for portrait drawings intensified during Catherine de' Medici's life, and she may have regarded part of her collection as the equivalent of today's family photograph album. Catherine loved having her children painted: \"I would like\", she wrote in 1547 to her children's governor, Jean d'Humières, \"to have paintings of all the children done . . . and sent to me, without delay, as soon as they are finished\". However, the more formal pictures include a high proportion of portraits of European kings and queens, past and present, most of which she probably commissioned personally. On 3 July 1571, Catherine wrote to Monsieur de la Mothe-Fénelon, ambassador in London, discussing the work of François Clouet and requesting a portrait of Queen Elizabeth. Catherine gave detailed instructions: \"I pray you do me the pleasure that I may soon have a painting of the queen of England of small volume, in great [\"de la grandeur\"], and that it be well portrayed and done in the same fashion as the one sent be by the earl of Leicester, and ask, as I already have one in full face, it would be better to have her turning to the right.\"\nThe large group of portraits from Catherine's collection, now at the Musée Condé, Château de Chantilly, reveals her passion for the genre. These include portraits by Jean Clouet (1480–1541) and by his son François Clouet (c. 1510–1572). Jean drew and painted in the style of the Italian High Renaissance, but in the portraits of François, a northern-European naturalism is apparent, and a flatter, more meticulous technique.\n\nFrançois Clouet drew and painted portraits of all Catherine's family as well as of many members of the court. His drawing has been called profound, owing to its accuracy and harmony of form and its psychological penetration. This tradition of court portraiture was carried on by Jean Decourt, Étienne, Côme, and Pierre Dumoûtier, and by the less polished Benjamin Foulon (François Clouet's nephew) and François Quesnel. The last two artists, plus another known as \"Anonyme Lécurieux\", tended to use a more stylised technique, producing flatter portraits, with less three-dimensional modelling. After the death of Catherine de' Medici, a decline in the quality of portraiture set in; and by 1610, the native school patronised by the late Valois court and brought to its pinnacle by François Clouet had all but died out, and the Bourbon became reliant on foreign artists.\n\nLittle is known about the painting at Catherine de' Medici's court. In the last two decades of Catherine's life, only two painters stand out as recognisable personalities, Antoine Caron and Jean Cousin the Younger. The majority of paintings and portrait drawings that have survived from the late Valois period remain difficult or impossible to attribute to particular artists.\n\nAntoine Caron became painter to Catherine de' Medici after working at Fontainebleau under Primaticcio. His vivid Mannerist style, with its love of ceremonial and allegory, perhaps reflects the peculiarly neurotic atmosphere of the French court during the Wars of Religion. He adopted from Niccolò dell'Abbate the technique of elongated and twisted figures, placing them in spaces dominated by fantastical fragments of architecture borrowed from the drawings of Jacques Androuet du Cerceau and painted in surprising rainbow contrasts. The effect makes Caron's pin-headed figures appear puny and lost in the landscapes.\n\nMany of Caron's paintings, such as those of the \"Triumphs of the Seasons\", are of allegorical subjects that echo the festivities for which Catherine's court was famous. His designs for the Valois Tapestries depict the \"fêtes\", picnics, and mock battles of the \"magnificent\" entertainments for which Catherine was famous. Caron often painted scenes of massacres, reflecting the background of civil war that cast a shadow over the magnificence of the court. Caron also painted astrological and prophetical subjects, such as \"Astrologers Studying an Eclipse\" and \" Augustus and the Sibyl\". This theme may have been inspired by Catherine de' Medici's obsession with horoscopes and predictions.\n\nJean Cousin, to judge by contemporary praise for his work, may have been as highly regarded at the time as Caron. The royal accounts show large payments made to Cousin: he was among those who decorated Paris for the entry of Henry II as king. Little of his work, however, survives. His most important surviving work is \"The Last Judgement\" in the Louvre, which like Caron's art, depicts human beings dwarfed by the landscape and, in Blunt's words, \"made to swarm over the earth like worms\".\n\nMissing from the inventory drawn up after Catherine's death were the eight huge tapestries, known as the Valois tapestries, now held at the Uffizi gallery in Florence, which depict \"magnificences\" such as those at Bayonne in 1565 during the summit meeting between the French and Spanish courts and the ball laid on at the Tuileries palace in 1573 by Catherine for the Polish envoys who offered the crown of their country to her son Henry of Anjou. These magnificent hangings, originally designed during the reign of King Charles IX by Antoine Caron in the early 1570s, were woven later in the Spanish Netherlands with additions, possibly designed by Lucas de Heere, who worked for Catherine between 1559 and 1565, that show fashions as late as 1580 and depict Henry III as king rather than Charles IX.\n\nHistorian Frances Yates has suggested that these tapestries may have been produced in connection with the intervention of Catherine's son François, Duke of Anjou, who was elected duke of Brabant, in the Spanish Netherlands in 1580, in defiance of the Spanish administration. Anjou figures prominently in the tapestries. Catherine de’ Medici herself appears as a central figure in black in most of them. It is believed that she gave them to her granddaughter Christina of Lorraine in advance of her wedding to Ferdinand de’ Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany in 1589. The tapestries glorify the house of Valois by celebrating its magnificent festivals.\n\nAccording to the contemporary art historian Vasari, Catherine wanted Michelangelo to make her husband Henry II's equestrian statue; but Michelangelo passed the commission on to Daniele da Volterra, and only the horse was ever made.\n\nOn commission from Catherine, Germain Pilon carved the marble sculpture that contains Henry II's heart. The Florentine Domenico del Barbiere, who had worked at Fontainebleau, carved the base. Pilon's fluid style echoes Primaticcio's stucco work at Fontainebleau. The piece may also have been influenced by Pierre Bontemps's monument for the heart of Francis I. Pilon set the bronze urn on the heads of the Three Graces, who are poised back to back, as if to dance. He may have based the design on that for an incense burner for Francis I, engraved by Marcantonio. Pilon's figures, however, with their long necks and small heads, are more like nymphs. A poem by Ronsard is engraved at the foot of the sculpture. It asks the reader not to wonder that so small a vase can hold so large a heart, since Henry's real heart resides in Catherine's breast. Henri Zerner has called the monument, which can be seen at the Louvre, \"one of the summits of our sculpture\".\n\nIn the 1580s, Pilon began work on statues for the chapels that were to circle the tomb of Catherine de' Medici and Henry II at the basilica of Saint Denis. Among these, the fragmentary \"Resurrection\", now in the Louvre, was designed to face the tomb of Catherine and Henry from a side chapel. This work owes a clear debt to Michelangelo, who had designed the tomb and funerary statues for Catherine's father at the Medici chapels in Florence. Pilon openly depicted extreme emotion in his work, sometimes to the point of the grotesque. His style has been interpreted as a reflection of a society torn by the conflict of the French wars of religion.\n\nArchitecture was Catherine de' Medici's first love among the arts. \"As the daughter of the Medici\", suggests French art historian Jean-Pierre Babelon, \"she was driven by a passion to build and a desire to leave great achievements behind her when she died.\" Having witnessed in her youth the huge architectural schemes of Francis I at Chambord and Fontainebleau, Catherine set out, after Henry II's death, to enhance the grandeur of the Valois monarchy through a series of costly building projects. These included work on châteaux at Montceaux-en-Brie, Saint-Maur-des-Fossés, and Chenonceau, and the building of two new palaces in Paris: the Tuileries and the Hôtel de la Reine. Catherine was closely involved in the planning and supervising of all her architectural schemes. Architects of the day dedicated treatises to her in the sure knowledge that she would read them. The poet Ronsard accused her of preferring masons to poets.\n\nCatherine was intent on immortalising her sorrow at the death of her husband and had emblems of her love and grief carved into the stonework of her buildings. As the centrepiece of an ambitious new chapel, she commissioned a magnificent tomb for Henry at the basilica of Saint Denis, designed by \nFrancesco Primaticcio. In a long poem of 1562, Nicolas Houël, laying stress on her love for architecture, likened Catherine to Artemisia, who had built the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, as a tomb for her dead husband.\nPrimaticcio's circular plan for the Valois chapel, by allowing the tomb to be viewed from all angles, solved the problems faced by the Giusti brothers and Philibert de l'Orme, builders of previous royal tombs. Art historian Henri Zerner has called the design \"a grand ritualistic drama which would have filled the rotunda's celestial space\" and \"the last and most brilliant of the royal tombs of the Renaissance\". Work on the building was abandoned in 1585, as the monarchy faced bankruptcy and a series of rebellions. Over two hundred years later, in 1793, a mob tossed Catherine and Henry's bones into a pit with the rest of the French kings and queens.\n\nCatherine de' Medici spent extravagant sums on the building and embellishment of monuments and palaces, and as the country slipped deeper into anarchy, her plans grew ever more ambitious. Yet the Valois monarchy was crippled by debt and its moral authority in steep decline. The popular view condemned Catherine's building schemes as obscenely wasteful. This was especially true in Paris, where the \"parlement\" was often asked to contribute to her costs.\n\nRonsard captured the mood in a poem:\n\nRonsard was in many ways proved correct. Little remains of Catherine de' Medici's investment today: one Doric column, a few fragments in the corner of the Tuileries gardens, an empty tomb at Saint Denis.\n\nCatherine believed in the humanist ideal of the learned Renaissance prince whose power depended on letters as well as arms, and she was familiar with the writing of Erasmus, among others, on the subject. She enjoyed and collected books, and moved the royal collection to the Louvre, her principal residence. She delighted in the company of learned men and women, and her court was highly literary. Her government officials, such as secretary-of-state Nicolas de Neufville, seigneur de Villeroy, whose wife translated the epistles of Ovid, were perfectly at home in literary circles. When she could find the time, Catherine occasionally wrote verses herself, which she would show to the court poets. Her reading was not entirely highbrow, however. A superstitious woman, she believed implicitly in astrology and soothsaying, and her reading matter included \"The Book of Sibyls\" and the almanacs of Nostradamus.\n\nCatherine patronised poets such as Pierre de Ronsard, Rémy Belleau, Jean-Antoine de Baïf, and Jean Dorat, who wrote verses, scripts, and associated literature for her court festivals, and for public events such as royal entries and royal weddings. Catherine even had Ronsard write a poem to Elizabeth of England, honouring a new peace treaty. These poets were part of a group sometimes known as the \"Pléiade\", who forged a vernacular French literature on Greek and Latin models. They gave form to their interest in ancient poetry in \"vers mesurés\", a metric system that aspired to imitate classical poetic rhythms. Catherine de' Medici was also interested in Italian literature: Tasso presented his \"Rinaldo\" to her, and Aretino eulogised her as \"woman and goddess serene and pure, the majesty of beings human and divine\".\n\nIn 1559, Catherine and Henry II attended a performance of the tragedy \"Sophonisba\" by Trissino, adapted earlier by the poet Mellin de Saint-Gelais to Catherine's commission. The performance style of the day inserted musical interludes unrelated to the plot between the acts, devoted to praise of the royal court. Princesses and other high-ranking ladies performed on this occasion, which celebrated royal and noble marriages. Pierre de Bourdeille, seigneur de Brantôme, claimed in his memoirs that having seen \"Sophonisba\" shortly before her husband's death, Catherine refused to watch any more tragedies, believing the play had brought him bad luck. Tragedy went out of fashion at the court soon afterwards, replaced by the new genre of tragicomedy, though the change in taste may have had less directly to do with Catherine than with the revulsion of the court against the violence of the times. \"Genevra\", staged at Fontainebleau on 13 February 1564, adapted into French from an episode of Ariosto's \"Orlando Furioso\", was the first tragicomedy known to have been performed for the French court.\n\nCatherine enjoyed comedy and \"risqué\" humour. She drew the line at obscenity, however: in 1567, after seeing \"Le Brave\", an adaptation of Plautus's \"Miles Gloriosus\" by one of her official poets Jean-Antoine de Baïf, Catherine told the author to cut the \"lascivious talk\" of the classical writers. In the 1570s, the Italian \"commedia dell'arte\" rose to popularity in France and became all the rage. Catherine was not, as has sometimes been supposed, the first to bring Italian comedy to France: Louis Gonzaga, Duke of Nevers, himself an Italian, was the first to invite high-quality Italian players to France in 1571. The following year, two companies called I Gelosi appeared in Paris, and a performance was given to the court in Blois. A year later, I Gelosi performed during the celebrations for the marriage of Catherine's daughter Marguerite de Valois and Henry of Navarre. Further groups appeared under the same name in the reign of Catherine's son Henry III (1574–89).\n\nAs queen consort of France, Catherine patronised the arts and the theatre, but not until she attained real political and financial power as queen mother did she begin the series of tournaments and entertainments, sometimes called \"magnificences\", that dazzled her contemporaries and continue to fascinate scholars. The most famous of these were the court festivals mounted at Fontainebleau and at Bayonne during Charles IX's royal progress of 1564–65; the entertainments for the Polish ambassadors at the Tuileries in 1573; and the celebrations following the marriages of Catherine's daughter Marguerite to Henry of Navarre in 1572 and of her daughter-in-law's sister, Marguerite of Lorraine, to Anne, Duke of Joyeuse, in 1581. On all these occasions, Catherine organised sequences of lavish and spectacular entertainments. Biographer Leonie Frieda suggests that \"Catherine, more than anyone, inaugurated the fantastic entertainments for which later French monarchs also became renowned\".\n\nFor Catherine, these entertainments were worth their colossal expense, since they served a political purpose. Presiding over the royal government at a time when the French monarchy was in steep decline, she set out to show not only the French people but foreign courts that the Valois monarchy was as prestigious and magnificent as it had been during the reigns of Francis I and her husband Henry II. At the same time, she believed these elaborate entertainments and sumptuous court rituals, which incorporated martial sports and tournaments of many kinds, would occupy her feuding nobles and distract them from fighting against each other to the detriment of the country and the royal authority.\n\nIt is clear, however, that Catherine regarded these festivals as more than a political and pragmatic exercise; she revelled in them as a vehicle for her creative gifts. A highly talented and artistic woman, Catherine took the lead in devising and planning her own musical-mythological shows and is regarded as their creator as well as their sponsor. Historian Frances Yates has called her \"a great creative artist in festivals\". Though they were ephemeral, Catherine's \"magnificences\" are studied by modern scholars as works of art. Catherine employed the leading writers, artists, and architects of the day, including Antoine Caron, Germain Pilon, and Pierre Ronsard, to create the dramas, music, scenic effects, and decorative works required to animate the themes of the festivals, which were usually mythological and dedicated to the ideal of peace in the realm. It is difficult for scholars to reconstruct the exact form of Catherine's entertainments, but research into the written accounts, scripts, artworks, and tapestries that derived from these famous occasions has provided evidence of their richness and scale.\n\nIn the tradition of 16th-century royal festivals, Catherine de' Medici's magnificences took place over several days, with a different entertainment on each day. Often individual lords and ladies and members of the royal family were responsible for preparing one particular entertainment. Spectators and participants, including those involved in martial sports, would dress up in costumes representing mythological or romantic themes. Catherine gradually introduced changes to the traditional form of these entertainments. She forbade heavy tilting of the sort that led to the death of her husband in 1559; and she developed and increased the prominence of dance in the shows that climaxed each series of entertainments.\n\nA distinctive new art form, the \"ballet de cour\", emerged from the creative advances in court entertainment devised by Catherine de' Medici. The Italian influence on the \"ballet de cour\" owed much to Catherine, who was Italian herself and had grown up in Florence, where \"intermedii\", patronised by her rich relatives, were a staple of court entertainments and a focus of innovation. These between-acts entertainments had evolved a unique artistic form of their own, with choral dances, masquerades (\"mascherate\"), and consecutive themes. Once in France, Catherine kept in touch with artistic innovations in Italy. She encouraged Italian dancing masters to accept posts in France, among them the Milanese Cesare Negri, who introduced the skills of figured dancing to France, and Pompeo Diobono, whom Catherine employed as dancing master to her four sons. The most significant figure was Balthasar de Beaujoyeulx (his name gallicised from the Italian Baldassare da Belgiojoso), whom Catherine placed in charge of training dancers and producing performances at court.\n\nHistorian Frances Yates has credited Catherine as the guiding light of the \"ballets de cour\":\n\nIt was invented in the context of the chivalrous pastimes of the court, by an Italian, and a Medici, the Queen Mother. Many poets, artists, musicians, choreographers, contributed to the result, but it was she who was the inventor, one might perhaps say, the producer; she who had the ladies of her court trained to perform these ballets in settings of her devising.\n\nThe dance performances at the Valois court were conceived on a large scale, as elaborate, choreographed showpieces, sometimes performed by considerable forces. At the Château of Fontainebleau in 1564, the court attended a ball in which 300 \"beauties dressed in gold and silver cloth\" performed a choreographed dance. In his illustrated \"Magnificentissimi spectaculi\", Jean Dorat described an intricate ballet, \"The Ballet of the Provinces of France\", performed for the Polish ambassadors at the Tuileries palace in 1573, in which sixteen nymphs, each representing a French province, distributed devices to the spectators as they danced. Choreographed by Beaujoyeulx, the dancers performed complex, interlaced figures and patterned movements, each expressing a certain moral or spiritual truth that the spectators, assisted by printed programmes, were expected to recognise. The chronicler Agrippa d'Aubigné recorded that the Poles marvelled at the ballet. Brantôme called the performance \"the finest ballet that was ever given in this world\" and praised Catherine for bringing prestige to France with \"all these inventions\". Jean Dorat described the movements of the dancers in verse:\n\nAfter the dance was over, Catherine invited the spectators to join with the performers in a social dance.\n\nOver the years, Catherine increased the element of dance in her festive entertainments, and it became the norm for a major ballet to climax each series of magnificences. The \"Ballet Comique de la Reine\", devised under Catherine's influence, by Queen Louise for the Joyeuse Magnificences of 1581, is regarded by historians as the moment when the \"ballet de cour\" assumed the character of a new art form. The theme of the entertainment was an invocation of cosmic forces to aid the monarchy, which at that time was threatened by the rebellion not only of Huguenots but of many Catholic nobles. Men were shown as reduced to beasts by Circe, who held court in a garden at one end of the hall. Louise and her ladies, costumed as naiads, entered on a chariot designed as a fountain and then danced a ballet of thirteen geometric figures. After being turned to stone by Circe, they were freed to dance a ballet of forty geometric figures. Four groups of dancers, each wearing a different-coloured costume, moved through a sequence of patterns, including squares, triangles, circles, and spirals.\n\nThe figured choreography that enacted the mythological and symbolic themes reflected the principle, derived from the \"Enneads\" of Plotinus (c. 205–270), of \"cosmic dance\", the imitation of heavenly bodies by human motion to produce harmony. This imitation was achieved in the dance through geometric choreography and figures based on the harmony of numbers. The dance elements in the court festivities represented a response to the increasing political disharmony of the country. The \"Ballet Comique de la Reine\" marked the final transformation of court dance as a purely personal and social activity into a unified theatrical performance with a philosophical and political agenda. Owing to its synthesis of dance, music, verse, and setting, the production is regarded by scholars as the first authentic ballet.\n\nThe dance, verse, and musical elements of Catherine's entertainments increasingly reflected the principles of an academic movement—also influential in the Florentine Camerata—to unify the performing arts in what was believed to be the classical, Greek way. In 1570, Jean-Antoine de Baïf founded the Académie de Poésie et de Musique, whose aim was to revive ancient metrical practices, and, though the academy was short lived, similar aims were adopted by the \"Académie du Palais\", founded in 1577. Both enterprises were supported by the Valois court. One result of this movement was \"Musique mesurée à l'antique\", in which the metres of music and verse were matched precisely, to create a new harmony. The theory was not merely technical but humanistic; practitioners believed a harmonious combination of elements would produce benign moral and ethical effects on the audience. Dance was also subject to the new system and was designed to match the rhythms of the music and verse. The result was a new unified approach to the interrelationship between the performing arts.\n\nThe well-documented Joyeuse magnificences of 1581 provide the clearest evidence of the influence of this artistic movement on Catherine de' Medici's entertainments. The chief composer of music for the performances was Claude Le Jeune (1528–1600). His \"musique mesurée\" was played at the wedding itself, and his song \"La Guerre\" was sung during a foot-combat in the Louvre. He also wrote the music for an elaborate show on a sun-moon theme, once again setting \"vers mesurés\" to \"musique mesurée\". For the \"Ballet Comique de la Reine\", the music was composed by the Sieur de Beaulieu. The musicians were fully incorporated in the dramatic whole: on one side of the performing space was a cloud containing costumed singers and musicians, and on the other, a grotto, guarded by Pan, containing a second band of musicians. Further groups of singers and musicians made various entries and exits during the five-and-a-half-hour performance. At one stage, Circe turned the dancers and musicians to stone. When, at the climax of the show, Jupiter descended from the heavens, forty singers and musicians performed a song in honour of the wisdom and virtue of the Valois monarchy. Published accounts praised the length and variety of the music. The Jupiter music was called the \"most learned and excellent music that had ever been sung or heard\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1293167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1293167", "title": "Cold Sunday", "text": "Cold Sunday\n\n\"Cold Sunday\" was a meteorological event which took place on January 17, 1982, when unprecedentedly cold air swept down from Canada and plunged temperatures across much of the United States far below existing all-time record lows.\n\nThe phenomenon was caused by an unusually strong high pressure system over Saskatchewan with a core pressure of 1055mb (31.15 inHg), a level rarely seen outside of permanent polar areas such as Siberia and Antarctica. A recent snowfall had left the ground without any way to hold on to its heat and temperatures dropped precipitously. This mass of cold air was so strong that the temperature at Mequon, Wisconsin, dropped to −40 °F (−40 °C). The previous record was −28 °F (−33 °C) and temperatures below −20 °F (−29 °C) had been felt there only six times in the previous 100 years. The lowest temperature recorded that day in the United States was −52 °F (−47 °C), measured near Tower, Minnesota.\n\nBelow is a partial list of cities which set all-time record low temperatures in the United States. This is only a small fraction of all locales setting record low temperatures: Hundreds of towns and cities from North Dakota to New Jersey to Mississippi broke records, and the vast majority of the records set on \"Cold Sunday\" still stand. The cold was not confined to the night, either. In Princeton, New Jersey, and Cincinnati, Ohio, the \"daytime high temperatures\" were 2 °F (−17 °C) and −9 °F (−23 °C). The average high temperature in January is 39 °F (4 °C) in both cities.\n\nWhile much of South Florida escaped the deep freeze, enough damage was done to citrus crops in Central Florida during the month of January to write off the 1982 harvest as a disaster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2569854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2569854", "title": "Concealing birth", "text": "Concealing birth\n\nConcealing a birth is the act of a parent (or other responsible person) failing to report the birth of a child. The term is sometimes used to refer to hiding the birth of a child from friends or family, but is most often used when the appropriate authorities have not been informed about a stillbirth or the death of a newborn. This is a crime in many countries, with varying punishments.\n\nAustralian Capital Territory\n\nSection 47 of the Crimes Act 1900 creates the offence of concealment of birth. \n\nNew South Wales\n\nSection 85 of the Crimes Act 1900 creates the offence of concealment of birth. \n\nNorthern Territory\n\nSection 163 of the Criminal Code Act creates the offence of concealment of birth. \n\nSouth Australia\n\nSection 83 of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 creates the offence of concealment of birth.\n\nWestern Australia\n\nSection 291 of the Criminal Code (Schedule to the Criminal Code Compilation Act 1913) creates the offence of concealing the birth of children. \n\nTasmania\n\nSection 166 of the Criminal Code Act 1924 creates the offence of concealment of birth.\n\nVictoria\n\nSection 67 of the Crimes Act 1958 creates the offence of concealing birth of a child.\n\nSection 242 of the Canadian \"Criminal Code\" (injury to, or death of, a child due to its mother neglecting to obtain assistance in child birth with intent that it should not live or to conceal its birth). (English) (French)\n\nSection 243 of that Code (concealing the dead body of a child with intent to its conceal birth).\n\nA birth could have been concealed when there was a violation of the country's previous one-child policy in the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn England and Wales, and in Northern Ireland, section 60 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 creates the offence of concealing the birth of a child:\n\nThe words \"with or without hard labour\" omitted in the first place were repealed for England and Wales by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948.\n\nThe proviso to this section, as extended by any subsequent enactment, was repealed for England and Wales by section 10 of, and paragraph 13(1)(a) of Schedule 2 to, and Part III of Schedule 3 to, the Criminal Law Act 1967. Originally, the proviso allowed the jury to find an alternative verdict of this offence on a charge of murder. In England and Wales, it was subsequently extended to allow the jury to find an alternative verdict of this offence on a charge of child destruction or a charge of infanticide.\n\nSection 60 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 is framed on section 14 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828 (which applied to England, including Wales and Berwick) and section 17 of the 10 Geo 4 c 34, which applied to Ireland. This offence was previously created by section 4 of the Lord Ellenborough's Act (43 Geo 3 c 58) (1803). This in turn replaced \"An Act to prevent the Murthering of Bastard Children\" (21 Jac 1 c 27) (1623) and another Act applying to Ireland, which were repealed by section 3.\n\nThe words \"if any woman shall be delivered of a child, every person\" were retained in section 60 after a division in the select committee of the House of Commons, and the members were equally divided upon the subject. The word \"secret\" was in like manner retained after a division in the committee.\n\nAn offence under section 60 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 could not be tried at Quarter Sessions.\n\nSection 31 of the Offences against the Person Act 1828 made provision in relation to any person who should counsel, aid or abet the commission of, amongst other things, a misdemeanour under section 14.\n\nIn South Africa, section 113 of the General Law Amendment Act, 1935, amended by the Judicial Matters Amendment Act 66, 2008, creates the offence of concealing the birth of a child:\n\nIn the United States, concealing birth was once a crime punishable by capital punishment. In 1785, Hannah Piggen from Massachusetts was the last person to be put to death for concealing the birth/death of an infant.\n\nConcealing birth remains illegal in many states. Its seriousness as a crime, however, differs from state to state, ranging from a felony in Arkansas to a misdemeanor in Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "4357156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4357156", "title": "Cruelty to Animals Act 1835", "text": "Cruelty to Animals Act 1835\n\nThe Cruelty to Animals Act 1835 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (citation 5 & 6 Will. 4, c. 59), intended to protect animals, and in particular cattle, from mistreatment. Its full title is An Act to Consolidate and Amend the Several Laws Relating to the Cruel and Improper Treatment of Animals, and the Mischiefs Arising from the Driving of Cattle, and to Make Other Provisions in Regard Thereto.\n\nThe British legal action to protect animals began with the passing of the Cruel Treatment of Cattle Act 1822 to Prevent Cruel and Improper Treatment of Cattle. The 1835 Act amended the existing legislation to prohibit the keeping of premises for the purpose of staging the baiting of bulls, dogs, bears, badgers or \"other Animal (whether of domestic or wild Nature or Kind)\", which facilitated further legislation to protect animals, create shelters, veterinary hospitals and more humane transportation and slaughter.\n\nThe law was passed in part due to lobbying by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (founded 1824). The Act was repealed and replaced by the Cruelty to Animals Act 1849 12 & 13 Vict. c. 92.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47014814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47014814", "title": "Fronteiras do Pensamento", "text": "Fronteiras do Pensamento\n\nFronteiras do Pensamento \"(Portuguese: Frontiers of Thought)\" is a Brazilian cultural project that promotes conferences featuring internationally known intellectuals in order to discuss issues of contemporaneity. Scientific discovery, social research, sustainable solutions, philosophical theses, influences on the ways of understanding and interpreting the world, social/political leadership and activism, are a few of the issues discussed during Frontiers of Thought’s annual conference seasons. The project’s online content is freely available worldwide, and offers hundreds of videos, subtitled in Portuguese, Spanish and English, as well as articles, news and interviews.\n\nFrontieiras do Pensamento is a cultural project conceived in 2006, in the city of Porto Alegre, Brazil. In 2007, during its sixth edition, Christopher Hitchens, Jorge Castañeda, Luc Ferry, Michel Maffesoli and Michel Houellebecq – among others – spoke on the stage of the Salão de Atos in the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) giving the project international projection. In 2008, the second edition featured 25 lecturers. Edgar Morin, David Lynch, Philip Glass and Wim Wenders were among them. During that year, the project also took place at the city of Salvador, Brazil. In 2009, lectures featured Eric Maskin, Howard Gardner, Steven Pinker and Tom Wolfe and, in 2010, Carlo Ginzburg, Daniel Dennett, Daniel Cohn-Bendit and Mario Vargas Llosa, who spoke only a few days after being awarded the Nobel Literature Prize. Until 2011, Frontiers of Thought had already featured 98 internationally known guests. During that year, seasons extended to the city of São Paulo. The special season kept taking place in Salvador and, now, in Florianópolis. In 2011, Edgar Morin and Luc Ferry returned to Frontiers of Thought's stage, with them, Fredric Jameson, Garry Kasparov, Mohsen Makhmalbaf, Orhan Pamuk and Shirin Ebadi.\n\nAmong the 2012 edition lecturers were the Nobel Peace Prize Mohamed ElBaradei, from Egypt, and Nobel Economy Prize Winner Amartya Sen, from India. Also, Mozambican writer Mia Couto, Colombian urbanist Enrique Peñalosa and British philosopher Simon Blackburn, among others such as Vandana Shiva and Susan Greenfield.\n\nIn 2013, under the theme \"Ideas make a difference\", the project had 24 guests. Among them, Portuguese neuroscientist António Damásio, Nobel Peace Prize winner José Ramos-Horta and the Spanish sociologist Manuel Castells.\n\nIn 2014, discussing the theme \"The reinvention of the world\", Frontiers of Thought invited Salman Rushdie, Gro Brundtland, Brian Greene, Michael Sandel, and others.\n\nThe 2015 edition features the theme \"How to live together\", and guests Richard Dawkins, Jimmy Wales, Fernando Savater, John Gray, Saskia Sassen, Richard Sennett, Valter Hugo Mãe, Suzana Herculano-Houzel, Janette Sadik-Khan, Ferreira Gullar, Camille Paglia, Joseph Stiglitz, Contardo Calligaris, Luc Ferry, Manuel Castells, Pierre Lévy and John Elkington, touring the four cities that host the project – not all cities will have the same lecturers.\n\nFronteiras do Pensamento has two different formats: annual seasons and special series. The annual seasons take place in Porto Alegre and São Paulo, Brazil, during the whole year. In both cities, the audience buys tickets for all lectures. The special series take place in Florianópolis and Salvador, in specific times, and tickets can be bought for a single event.\n\n"}
{"id": "991367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991367", "title": "Giora Epstein", "text": "Giora Epstein\n\nBrigadier general Giora \"Hawkeye\" Epstein (; born May 20, 1938), today Giora Even (), is a retired brigadier General in the Israeli Air Force (IAF) and a fighter ace credited with 17 victories, 16 against Egyptian jets, making Epstein the ace of aces of supersonic fighter jets and of the Israeli Air Force.\nEpstein was an active IAF pilot from 1963 until 1998, when he retired at age 60. He, like many retired IAF flyers, later worked as captain for El Al Airlines.\n\nEpstein joined the Israeli Defense Force (IDF) in 1956 during the Sinai War. He was initially rejected from flight school because of a heart condition and began his military career as a paratrooper. While traveling with the IDF's parachute demonstration team, Epstein changed his last name to Even (\"stone\" in Hebrew). He left the IDF in 1959 before returning two years later to again apply for flight school.\n\nAfter gaining medical clearance (mostly through his own stubbornness), Epstein began fighter training. He soon gained the nickname \"Hawkeye\" due to his extraordinary eyesight. Epstein was allegedly able to spot aircraft at a distance of 24 miles (44 km) — nearly three times further than a normal pilot.\n\nEpstein's first kill came on June 6, 1967 during the Six-Day War, when he downed an Egyptian Sukhoi-7 at El Arish. During the War of Attrition in 1969–70, Epstein downed a MiG-17, another Sukhoi-7 and two MiG 21s. The rest of his kills came during 1973's Yom Kippur War. Between October 18 and 20, 1973, he downed an Mi-8 helicopter and eight jets: two Sukhoi-7s, two Sukhoi-20s and four MiG 21s. Then, on October 24, 1973, Epstein downed three more MiG-21s west of the Great Bitter Lake. Eight of these victories were with the French-built Mirage III, a delta wing fighter designed primarily as a high altitude interceptor. His other nine victories came in an IAI Nesher, an Israeli-built version of the Mirage 5. Five of his claims were downed using air-to-air missiles, the rest with cannon.\n\nAfter the Yom Kippur War, Epstein received the Medal of Distinguished Service, one of Israel's highest military honors. He went on to command Mirage and Kfir squadrons and was flying \"ready\" missions in the F-16 up until his 60th birthday. After retiring from the IAF, Epstein became a captain for El Al Airlines.\n\nEpstein was the primary subject of the \"Desert Aces\" episode of The History Channel series \"Dogfights\". The episode first aired on August 10, 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25978724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25978724", "title": "Goojje", "text": "Goojje\n\nGoojje (, ) is a spoof website of Google China, which encourages the real site to stay online and comply with Internet censorship in the People's Republic of China. The site was created after Google executives publicly threatened to shut down the Chinese site following the Operation Aurora cyber attack on Google China, which some computer security experts believe may have come from within China as in the GhostNet cyber spying operation. Google China executives had also publicly condemned the necessity of filtering search results in line with the Golden Shield Project (also known as the Great Firewall of China), which some commentators have stated appears to run counter to Google's mantra, \"Don't be evil\".\n\nGoojjee, founded on January 14, 2010 also allows searches to be run, but apparently uses Google and Baidu to do the actual searches. Google has demanded that Goojje stop using its logo, but Goojje has refused.\n\nGoogle in Chinese is (pinyin: ), a transcription without regard to its meaning of \"valley song\". The Chinese name of \"Goojje\" can be interpreted as having meaning of \"the sister of Google\". The \"jje\" phoneme is from the word for sister, \"jie jie (姐姐)\", which mirrors how Google's last syllable (歌) sounds like \"ge ge (哥哥)\" (brother).\n\nIt is said that Goojje is created by a female who is infatuated with Google. Due to Google's withdrawal from China, she decided to build Goojje in memory of it. The website's propaganda is \"Goojje it, loneliness all eliminated\"\n\nAll staff members of Goojje were born in the generation after the 1980s. Goojje appears to be run by just one person, Huang Jiongxuan, a female college student from Guangdong. Huang stated in February 2010 that the website had yet to turn a profit, however as of February 2016 it is estimated it now has a net worth of 1530.85CYN (235USD).\n\nOn January 14, 2010, Goojje was set up and presented a new concept: search engine combined with social networking.\n\nOn January 16, 2010, Goojje created motivational video of 2010 with network materials.\n\nOn January 20, 2010, Goojje's slogan \"Goojje it, loneliness all eliminated\" has become an Internet meme.\n\nOn January 21, 2010, Goojje network team A1 was established with 30 team members.\n\nOn January 22, 2010, Goojje breaks through the 1.5 million page view milestone, with the world ranking down to 50,000.\n\nOn January 24, 2010, members of network team A1 has reached 600.\n\nOn January 25, 2010, Goojje reaches 50,000 registered members. Goojje was reported by more than 100 major medias.\n\nOn January 28, 2010, Goojje begins to attract international attention.\n\nOn January 30, 2010, Gojje records more than 2.2 million page views, world ranking goes down to 15,000.\n\nOn February 2, 2010, Goojji website undergoes a major revision.\n\nOn February 4, 2010, Goojje was attacked by unknown hackers. Website was temporarily down for two weeks\n\nOn March 11, 2010, Famous Club of Goojje is on line formally.\n\nOn March 20, 2010, Goojje headquarters established.\n\nOn April 10, 2010, Goojje technology Co., LTD was formally established.\n\nOn May 20, 2010, Goojje signed with several media companies to establish strategic partnership.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5311443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311443", "title": "Grepafloxacin", "text": "Grepafloxacin\n\nGrepafloxacin (trade name Raxar, Glaxo Wellcome) was an oral broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibacterial agent used to treat bacterial infections. Grepafloxacin was withdrawn worldwide from markets in 1999, due to its side effect of lengthening the QT interval on the electrocardiogram, leading to cardiac events and sudden death.\n\nGrepafloxacin was used for treating exacerbations of chronic bronchitis caused by susceptible bacteria (e.g. \"Haemophilus influenzae\", \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\", \"Moraxella catarrhalis\"), community-acquired pneumonia (including those, in addition to the above germs, caused by \"Mycoplasma pneumoniae\") gonorrhea and non-gonococcal urethritis and cervicitis (for example caused by \"Chlamydia trachomatis\" or \"Ureaplasma urealyticum\").\n\nThe preparation of quinolones bearing a substituent at position 5 is complicated by the greater electrophilic character of the 8 position. One scheme for resolving the problem consists in blocking access to position 8 by first adding a readily removable group to that center.\n\nThe scheme starts with the conversion of the carboxylic acid in (1) to its dimethyloxazoline derivative (3) by reaction with the aminomethyl propanol (2). Lithium diisopropylamide (LDA) then removes a proton from the 8 position; treatment of that anion with trimethylsilyl iodide leads to the silylated intermediate (4). A second round of LDA then generates a carbanion at the only open position; reaction with methyl iodide leads to the corresponding 5 methyl derivative (5). Treatment of that product with cesium fluoride breaks the carbon–silicon bond, removing the silyl group; aqueous acid then hydrolyzes the oxazoline to afford the free acid (6). This last intermediate is then taken on to the quinolone (9) by essentially the same scheme as that used to prepare difloxacin, with the difference that the chain elongation is by means of Grignard reagent of ethyl bromoacetate. Treatment of (9) with 2-methylpiperazine proceeds by reaction at the less hindered of the two amino groups; saponification then affords grepafloxacin (10).\n\nGrepafloxacin contains a stereocenter and consists of two enantiomers. This is a racemate, ie a 1: 1 mixture of (\"R\")- and the (\"S\")-forms:\n"}
{"id": "32103193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32103193", "title": "Health care fraud", "text": "Health care fraud\n\nHealth care fraud includes health insurance fraud, drug fraud, and medical fraud. Health insurance fraud occurs when a company or an individual defrauds an insurer or government health care program, such as Medicare (United States) or equivalent State programs. The manner in which this is done varies, and persons engaging in fraud are always seeking new ways to circumvent the law. Damages from fraud can be recovered by use of the False Claims Act, most commonly under the \"qui tam\" provisions which rewards an individual for being a \"whistleblower\", or relator (law).\n\nThe FBI estimates that \"Health Care Fraud\" costs American tax payers $80 billion a year. Of this amount $2.5 billion was recovered through \"False Claims Act\" cases in FY 2010. Most of these cases were filed under \"qui tam\" provisions.\n\nOver the course of FY 2010, \"whistleblowers\" were paid a total of $307,620,401.00 for their part in bringing the cases forward.\n\nThere are several different schemes used to defraud the Health care system.\n\nOften done as a way of billing Medicare for things that never happened. This can involve forging the signature of those enrolled in Medicare, and the use of bribes or \"kickbacks\" to corrupt medical professionals.\n\nBilling Medicare programs for services that are more costly than the actual procedure that was done.\n\nSimilar to upcoding of services, but involving the use of medical equipment. An example is billing Medicare for a power-assisted wheelchair while only giving the patient a manual wheelchair.\n\nIn this case a provider does not submit exactly the same bill, but changes some small portion like the date in order to charge Medicare twice for the same service rendered. Rather than a single claim being filed twice, the same service is billed two times in an attempt to be paid twice.\n\nBills for a particular service are submitted in piecemeal, that appear to be staggered out over time. These services would normally cost less when bundled together, but by manipulating the claim, a higher charge is billed to Medicare resulting in a higher pay out to the party committing the fraud.\n\nOccurs when Medicare is billed for something greater than what the level of actual care requires. This can include medical related equipment as well as services.\n\nUnlike excessive services, this fraudulent scheme occurs when claims are filed for care that in no way applies to the condition of a patient, such as an echo cardiogram billed for a patient with a sprained ankle.\n\nKickbacks are rewards such as cash, jewelry, free vacations, corporate sponsored retreats, or other lavish gifts used to entice medical professionals into using specific medical services. This could be a small cash kickback for the use of an MRI when not required, or a lavish doctor/patient retreat that is funded by a pharmaceutical company to entice the prescription and use of a particular drug.\n\nPeople engaging in this type of fraud are also subject to the federal Anti-Kickback statute.\n\nIn the case United States ex rel. Donigian v. St. Jude Medical, Inc., No. 06-CA-11166-DPW (D. Mass.) St. Jude Medical, Inc. agreed to pay $16 million to quiet allegations of paying kickbacks to physicians. The whistleblower was able to provide detailed insider information as to the nature of the kickbacks, which ranged from entertainment to sporting event tickets and other gifts. The relator in this case was awarded $2.64 million.\n\nThe case United States et al., ex rel. Jim Conrad and Constance Conrad v. Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc, et al., No. 02-cv-11738-NG (D. Mass.) involved a drug manufacturer selling a drug, Levothroid, that had never been approved by the FDA. These allegations settled for $42.5 million due to multiple whistleblowers stepping forward to provide detailed information on the alleged fraud. The collective reward to the relators in this case was over $14.6 million.\n\nCopied and pasted entries into the Electronic Medical Record may constitute fraud. A U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Health Administration pulmonologist at the Montgomery, Alabama facility copied and pasted data entered by other physicians into electronic medical records that he signed. The VA Office of the Medical Inspector reported this finding to Congress in 2013.\n\nThere are many ways to report cases of fraud. If a patient or health care provider believes they have witnessed Health Care Fraud, they are encouraged to contact the FBI via either their local office, telephone, or the online tips form.\n\nIf, however, they want to ensure the government actively investigates the alleged fraud, they are encouraged to contact legal counsel from an experienced firm that specializes in \"qui tam\" litigation under the False Claims Act. A good legal team can advise potential whistleblowers of their rights, protections, and what evidence is necessary to solidify a case against the group leading the fraud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2370794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2370794", "title": "LAN gaming center", "text": "LAN gaming center\n\nA LAN Gaming Center is a business where one \ncan use a computer connected over a LAN to \nother computers, primarily for the purpose of playing multiplayer \ncomputer games. Use of these computers or game consoles costs a fee, usually per hour or minute; sometimes one can have unmetered access with a pass for a day or month, etc. It may or may not serve as a \nregular café as well, with food and drinks being served. Many game \ncenters have evolved in recent years to also include console gaming \n(Xbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2). Other \ncenters offer computer repair and consulting, custom \nbuilt computers (White box computer), web design, programming \nclasses or summer camps, and many other technology related \nservices. Centers are starting to offer PS3s, Wiis and \nXbox 360s that are playable in store.\n\nLAN gaming centers can come in various sizes and styles, from the \nvery small (6-8 computers) to the very large (400+ computers). Most \nhave computer systems with higher-end hardware built specifically for \ncomputer gaming. Customers can play games with (or against) in-house \nopponents and most also include a high-speed Internet \nconnection to allow customers to play games with online opponents as \nwell (usually at the same time). Most also host a number of special \nevents such as tournaments and LAN parties, some \nlasting throughout the night. Another typical feature is the ability to browse the Web and use instant messaging clients. Often these gaming centers allow customers the option of \nrenting out the whole or part of the store for private LAN parties. LAN \ncenters are typically decorated in such a way as to enhance the already \npresent gaming atmosphere, such as adding black-light lightbulbs and \ngaming paraphernalia and posters around the center. A standard LAN \ngaming center will have rows of computers next to each other with \nhighback leather computer chairs.\n\nThere are over 650 LAN centers in the US, while 90% of the LAN Centers \nin the world are in China, the largest having over 1777 \nseats.\n\nIt is common for a LAN gaming centers to sell the games that they had already installed for their in-house computers, most notably MMORPGs and many FPS games.\n\nThe first LAN Gaming center located on a college campus was Savage \nGeckos which was opened by Bruce McCulloch Jones as a tenant of \nEastern Michigan University's Student Center, both opening on \nNovember 6, 2006. The combination \nretail/gaming center included 21 networked Xboxs, other consoles: PS2s, \nPS3s, Wiis, 10 networked gaming PCs and theatre seating (with cup \nholders) for game play, LCD screens, video projectors and a \nretail/arcade/hang out area. This center hosted some of the first \non-campus intercollegiate play with a Halo 3 tournament between \nstudents from Eastern Michigan University, University of Michigan, \nMichigan State University and Oakland University. \nThe operation lasted until Spring of 2008 when it was purchased by the \nuniversity. Mr. Jones made a series of presentations to the Association of College \nUnions International promoting the use of video games for positive \nsocial interaction on campus student centers. Now there are over 20 universities with some form of LAN Center on campus including Eastern Michigan University, University of Michigan, Oakland University, \nIllinois State University, and Illinois Institute of Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "27169660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27169660", "title": "Lyrical ballet", "text": "Lyrical ballet\n\nLyrical ballet is an offshoot of the now-obsolete Russian lyrical (Soviet ballroom) dances. It is a lilting style of dance that uses the ballet technique along with the Soviet ballroom dance forms. The word lyrical refers to a lilting, poetic feel associated with the movements and the steps flow from the one to the next. It belongs to the genre of classical folk dance.\n\nThe origins of lyrical ballet lie in the Soviet ballroom dances, the Russian lyrical dance in particular. The Russian lyrical dance was a progressive dance based on Russian folk tunes with a soft and smooth character, danced at medium tempo, in 2/4 or 4/4 time. Today, the nomenclature 'Russian lyrical' has lost its relevance but the dance form remains and continues to flourish under the term of lyrical ballet.\n\nThe technique is that of ballet abiding by the rules of turnout and body alignment in which is also incorporated the different Soviet ballroom dance steps. A distinguishing feature of lyrical ballet as opposed to lyrical dance is that it does not make any departure from the classical style and takes no liberties with its rigid structure. Therefore, it is unlikely to find the turning-in of legs or finger-gestures that are common in jazz dance choreography.\n\nThe costume of this dance is a flared skirt (usually knee length between the long ball-gowns and the short tutu) allowing free flow of movement between the legs.\n"}
{"id": "40412131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40412131", "title": "Made in Dagenham (musical)", "text": "Made in Dagenham (musical)\n\nMade in Dagenham is a musical with music by David Arnold, lyrics by Richard Thomas, and a book by Richard Bean. Based on the 2010 film of the same name, which in turn was based on the real events of the Ford sewing machinists strike of 1968, the musical made its West End and world premiere at the Adelphi Theatre in 2014.\n\nThe 2010 film received several award nominations, and the following year, it was announced that a musical was under development. Former Bond girl Gemma Arterton was cast in the role of Rita, a working woman and mother who becomes a union leader amidst the strike, despite the wishes of her husband and children, who feel neglected by her focus on labour issues.\n\n\"Made in Dagenham\" opened for previews on 5 October 2014 at the Adelphi Theatre. It opened on 9 November to mixed but generally positive reviews. Despite the good reception, it is closed on 11 April 2015, due to poor ticket sales.\n\nThe musical is based on the 2010 film \"Made in Dagenham\", which in turn centred around the true-life events of the Ford sewing machinists strike of 1968. The film principally follows the main character of Rita O'Grady, who acts as the spokesperson for a group of female workers at Ford's Dagenham plant, who go on strike to fight the inequality that becomes apparent when women workers were to be paid less as they were classed as unskilled. In contrast, their male colleagues were classed as skilled and ultimately received more pay. These actions led to the creation of the Equal Pay Act 1970. It received four British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) nominations, including Outstanding British film.\n\nIn December 2011, it was first revealed that a musical adaption of the film \"Made in Dagenham\" was being worked on. A reading of the book from the show took place the same month with two workshops also being held the following year. During these workshops, actress Gemma Arterton played the lead role of Rita and in August 2013, Producers Stage Entertainment revealed that they would like Arterton to play the role subject to scheduling and were seeking an autumn 2014 opening.\n\nOn 3 March 2014, the show was officially confirmed and it was announced that the show would premiere in London in autumn 2014. The musical has a book by Richard Bean and is directed by Rupert Goold, with choreography by Aletta Collins, set and costume design by Bunny Christie and lighting by Jon Clark. The musical's score is composed by David Arnold, with lyrics by Richard Thomas and sound design by Richard Brooker.\n\nDescribing the production, producers revealed that whilst based on the film, it would not be a direct copy, saying \"Some of the characters from the film will be dropped, and new ones introduced. Not all the elements from the film will be on stage, and we'll expand on things the film barely touched on\".\n\nThe show's premiere production began previews at the Adelphi Theatre in London, on 9 October 2014, with its official opening night coming on 5 November. Rehearsals for the production began on 4 August, with their first public outing coming on 28 September, with an appearance on Sunday Night at the London Palladium and in November the cast performed \"Everybody Out\" on the BBC's Children in Need. The lead role of Rita is played by Arterton, with husband Eddie being played by Adrian Der Gregorian. A typical London performance runs two hours and 45 minutes, including one interval of 15 mins. The production closed on 11 April 2015, despite positive reviews due to poor ticket sales. \"Made In Dagenham\" was replaced by \"Kinky Boots\" at the Adelphi Theatre in London on 15 September 2015, with previews from 21 August.\n\nA new actor/musician co-production by the Queen's Theatre, Hornchurch and New Wolsey Theatre, Ipswich was created and performed in autumn 2016 at the Queen's Theatre Hornchurch, and the New Wolsey Theatre Ipswich. It was directed by the Queen's Theatre Hornchurch artistic director, Douglas Rintoul, designed by Hayley Grindle with musical direction by Ben Goddard, choreography by Tim Jackson, lighting design by Paul Anderson and sound design by Emma Laxton.It received favourable reviews. The cast included Daniella Bowen, Angela Bain, Daniel Carter-Hope, Dan de Cruz, Sophie-May Feek, Jeffrey Harmer, Callum Harrower, Joey Hickman, Anthony Hunt, Martina Isibor, Graham Kent, Claire Machin, Wendy Morgan, Jamie Noar, Loren O'Dair, Elizabeth Rowe, Sioned Saunders, Sarah Scowen, Steve Simmonds, Thomas Sutcliffe and Alex Tomkins. \n\n\nThe musical uses a nine-member orchestra consisting of keyboard, piano, guitar, bass, drums, percussion, reeds and trumpet.\n\nOn 13 June 2014, the first song from the musical was revealed as \"Everybody Out\" and was released on <nowiki>SoundCloud</nowiki>, with two other tracks, \"The Letter\" and the musical's title song \"Made in Dagenham\" also released on <nowiki>SoundCloud</nowiki> and via the show's website. In addition \"Everybody Out\" was released as a single on 28 July 2014. Shortly prior to the show's West End closure it was announced a cast recording would be released. Recorded live at London's Adelphi Theatre the soundtrack was released on digital formats only on 18 May 2015, via First Night Records.\n\nThe musical received mixed but generally positive reviews. Quentin Letts deemed it \"witty, fun, fitfully inventive and distinctly English\". Henry Hitchings, for the \"Evening Standard\", regarded it as \"robustly likeable — mixing passionate populism with bursts of big-budget flamboyance\". Paul Taylor, for \"The Independent\", called it \"a West End musical you can be pleased to acknowledge was 'made in Britain' \".\n\nNevertheless, even some of those who praised the musical criticised some aspects of the production, with Hitchings calling it \"occasionally crass and a little too manipulative (the final number [\"Stand Up\"] is an especially brazen bid to get us on our feet)\". Taylor suggested \"Made in Dagenham\" was \"uneven but captivating\".\n\nOthers were more critical. Simon Edge, for the \"Daily Express\", complained of an \"underpowered central performance from Gemma Arterton as Rita ... she lacks any of the goofy charisma that Sally Hawkins brought to the film role, so that it's hard to see how her character ever came to the fore of this dispute\". Michael Billington, in his review for \"The Guardian\", opined that Arnold's score \"rarely rises above the functional\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4032491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4032491", "title": "Marion Eugene Carl", "text": "Marion Eugene Carl\n\nMajor General Marion Eugene Carl (November 1, 1915 – June 28, 1998) was a World War II fighter ace, record-setting test pilot, and naval aviator. He was the United States Marine Corps' first ace in World War II.\n\nBorn on the family dairy farm near Hubbard, Oregon, Carl was always attracted to aviation. He learned to fly while attending college and soloed after only 2½ hours of instruction; eight to ten hours is typical. He studied engineering at Oregon State College (now a university) and, in 1938, graduated as a lieutenant in the Army Reserve.\n\nCarl resigned his commission to become a naval aviation cadet and received his \"wings of gold\" and Marine Corps commission in December 1939. His first posting was to Marine Fighting Squadron One (VMF-1) at Quantico, Virginia. After a year there, he was posted back to Pensacola as an instructor pilot helping to train the rapidly growing number of naval aviators, before receiving orders to the newly formed Marine Fighting Squadron 221 (VMF-221) at NAS North Island in San Diego, California.\n\nThe 7 December 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor found VMF-221 preparing to embark aboard the aircraft carrier for transport to Marine Corps Air Station Ewa on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. The unit was rushed to Hawaii, then to Wake Island as part of the WI Relief Task Force, still aboard \"Saratoga\". After the relief attempt was canceled, VMF-221 was deployed to Midway Atoll on Christmas Day, 1941. Carl's first combat occurred six months later during the Battle of Midway on June 4, 1942, when 15 of the 25 aircraft VMF-221 put into the air that morning were destroyed. Nevertheless, Carl was credited with destroying one enemy aircraft, a Mitsubishi Zero. All the survivors of VMF-221 were returned to Hawaii shortly after the battle.\n\nAfter a short rest, Carl was reassigned to Marine Fighting Squadron 223 (VMF-223), led by former VMF-221 pilot Captain (later Major) John L. Smith. On August 20, VMF-223 was deployed to Guadalcanal, the first fighter unit ashore with the Cactus Air Force. Over the next two months, Carl became the Marines' first ace, running his tally to 16.5 victories, during which time he had to bail out once from a badly-damaged airplane. It is believed that on August 26 Carl shot down the famous Japanese Navy \"Tainan Kōkūtai\" ace Junichi Sasai over Henderson Field. When the squadron left Guadalcanal in October, Carl was America's second-ranking ace behind Major Smith.\n\nIn 1943, then-Major Carl returned to the Pacific and led VMF-223 until the following summer. During combat in the Solomon Islands, he claimed two more enemy planes, finishing as the Corps' seventh-ranking ace with 18.5 victories.\n\nIn 1945, Carl graduated in the first test pilot class at Naval Air Station Patuxent River, Maryland. As a lieutenant colonel, he conducted pioneering jet operations from aircraft carriers and later commanded VMF-122, the first Marine jet squadron.\n\nIn 1947, Carl was one of two pilots selected to fly the Douglas D-558/I Skystreak in record-setting speed attempts. That August, he was recorded at , establishing a new world record for a conventional aircraft. When Air Force Captain Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier in October, he also broke Carl's record.\n\nAt Patuxent River on April 1, 1952, Carl had a close brush with death. He was performing a series of check spins in the new Grumman AF-2S Guardian anti-submarine attack aircraft. The anti-spin parachute that had been fitted in earlier tests had been removed. Climbing to over Chesapeake Bay, Carl commenced the spin. The aircraft entered a flat spin with strong centrifugal forces. Carl could not break the spin and rode it down to . He tried to operate the ejection seat, but the face blind ripped away in his hands and the seat failed to fire. He climbed out at . He then tried the wind-tunnel approved method of getting out on the inside of the spin, but was forced back due to airflow. He finally got out on the other side and felt his parachute open as he fell into the splash of the aircraft. The success of this proved bailing out on the inside of the spin to avoid being hit by the tail was an incorrect theory.\n\nDuring a second test pilot tour in 1953, Carl set an unofficial altitude record of in the Douglas D-558/II.\n\nBetween test pilot duties, Carl commanded other units including a reconnaissance squadron based on Taiwan. In 1954, he led missions over Mainland China, photographing Communist forces along the coast. After his death, an incorrect version of his reconnaissance missions appeared in several obituaries, stating that he had flown U-2 spy planes.\n\nThough still a colonel, Carl became Director of Marine Corps Aviation for five months in 1962. In 1964 he was promoted to brigadier general; in 1965, he took the First Marine Brigade to Danang, South Vietnam. Despite his seniority, he repeatedly flew combat missions in helicopter gunships and jet fighters.\n\nCarl received his second star as a major general in 1967, commanding the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing at MCAS Cherry Point, North Carolina from 1968 to 1970. He subsequently served as Inspector General of the Marine Corps, until retiring in 1973. By then he had logged some 13,000 flying hours, more than twice as much as most contemporaries.\n\nCarl returned to his native Oregon, where he and his wife Edna settled near Roseburg. Marion Carl's memoir, \"Pushing the Envelope\", coauthored with his friend Barrett Tillman, was published in 1994. In 1998, at age 82, he was shot to death during a robbery, defending Edna from a home invader. Carl had entered his living room late one evening and had found an intruder pointing a shotgun at his wife and demanding money & car-keys. Carl lunged at the intruder who fired his weapon, the shot grazing Edna's head and leaving her injured. The attacker than turned the weapon on Carl, fatally shooting him and the former then fled, stealing cash and the couple's car. Carl was buried with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nHis murderer, 19-year-old Jesse Fanus, was apprehended one week later. In April 1999, he was convicted on two counts of aggravated murder (and 11 additional felony charge) and sentenced to death. In 2003, his conviction and death sentence were upheld by the Oregon Supreme Court. In December 2011, the sentence was overturned based on the prisoner's inadequate legal representation; a new sentencing session was expected in 2015. Fanus was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole on May 7, 2015.\n\nCarl's widow Edna passed away in 2007.\n\nCarl's decorations include (having declined any personal medals for service in Vietnam):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7828513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7828513", "title": "Marionette (show)", "text": "Marionette (show)\n\nMarionette is a 90-minutes non-verbal breakdancing performance, created and performed by a South Korean breakdancing group Expression. The name Marionette comes from the French word marionette, a type of puppet moved by using strings. Like the name suggest, the show Marionette features the performers imitating and dancing as a puppeteer and his puppets.\n\nMarionette was first performed in South Korea, early 2006, at Korean Lotte Theme Park. When it was first premiered, it brought international attention. Many countries invited Expression to perform Marionette, and Expression soon began a world Marionette tour. This international success also brought people's attention within Korea. The fact that the movie file of the Marionette was available for a free download in Expression's website, and the fact Lee Woo Sung put the movie of Marionette at the famous site YouTube also helped to spread the word around both within and outside South Korea.\n\nLater 2006, Expression re-worked Marionette into a 90-minutes stage show with the same name and same themes. The musical enjoyed the explosive success that the original Marionette received. and This show re-performing At seoul from 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "5447626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447626", "title": "Matthew 27:58", "text": "Matthew 27:58\n\nMatthew 27:58 is the fifty-eighth verse of the twenty-seventh chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This verse describes Joseph of Arimathea meeting with Pontius Pilate to secure the burial of Jesus.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible it is translated as:\n\nThe modern World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibRef Matthew 27:58\n\nThese same events are related by -, , and . Mark has some more details, noting that it was \"bold\" of Joseph to approach Pilate, and also has Pilate exclaiming on how quickly Jesus died. Matthew, Luke, and John do not have these details. Gundry notes that at the time Mark was written the question posed by skeptics was whether Jesus really was dead. By the time Matthew was written this had faded as an issue, to be replaced by the allegation that the disciples had stolen Jesus' body. Thus Matthew drops the sections emphasizing that Jesus was truly dead, and adds much evidence that the body could not have been stolen. There is also a much longer version of this scene found in the non-canonical Gospel of Peter that explains the special access by claiming that Joseph was a friend of Pilate. The Gospel of Peter version also puts the blame for Jesus' death more clearly on the Jewish leaders than on Pilate.\n\nApproaching Pilate was a bold move, it would publicly associate Joseph with a criminal executed for defying the empire. France notes that this is somewhat explained by Matthew's presentation of Pilate as being ambivalent towards the execution, with the true driving force being the Jewish leaders.\n\nRoman law and tradition was to leave the bodies of executed criminals to decompose upon the cross. This violated Jewish custom that all bodies be buried by sundown on the same day. There is evidence that Roman governors of Palestine did regularly compromise the rules to allow the bodies of Jewish criminals to be buried according to custom. Contemporary sources make special note of cases where this exception was not allowed. Typically the body would have been handed over to the Jewish authorities, who would have buried it in a mass grave set aside for criminals. There are contemporary records of bodies being handed over to other individuals, so these events are not impossible.\n\nKeener notes that proper burials were not just part of Jewish tradition. Greco-Roman literature of the period has several examples of noble heroes taking great risks to ensure a proper burial.\n"}
{"id": "28373738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28373738", "title": "Miss America 1921", "text": "Miss America 1921\n\nWhat has become known as the first Miss America pageant was, at its start in 1921, an activity designed to attract tourists to extend their Labor Day holiday weekend and enjoy festivities in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Atlantic City's Inter-City Beauty Contest, as it was initially called, attracted over 1,500 photographic entries from around the country, all vying to win the \"Golden Mermaid\" award and cash prizes.\n\nSix \"Inter-City Beauties,\" arrived in Atlantic City and entered a new event: The \"Inter-City Beauty\" Contest. It was judged in stylish afternoon attire not only by the judges, but also the public, who shared in 50 percent of the final score. Personality played a large role in the voting as masses of people surrounded each entrant to get to know her better and throw questions at them throughout the event. Later, the entrants were escorted and presented on the stage of the Keith Theatre on the Garden Pier.\n\nThe amateur prize, the Watkins Trophy, was awarded to Miss Washington, DC, Margaret Gorman, Miss South Jersey, Kathryn M. Gearon placed second, receiving $100 in gold. A special professional prize, the Endicott Trophy, was awarded to Miss New York, silent film actress Virginia Lee.\n\nAn immediate hit with the crowds, the \"Inter-City Beauties\" were later judged head-to-head against two other \"Beauty\" winners in selected classes of the now famous Bather's Revue: an \"amateur winner\" from over two hundred local women and tourists, and a \"professional winner,\" which included a field of eleven professional models and actresses. In this extravagant and much-hyped final event, Margaret Gorman won the Grand Prize: the Golden Mermaid trophy.\n\nGorman decided to enter the contest the following year and, since Washington D.C. had already selected another contestant to represent their area in the 1922 contest, officials allowed Gorman to compete as \"Miss America\" just two weeks prior to the competition which marks the first time the title was actually used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6068328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6068328", "title": "Murder of Anna McGurk", "text": "Murder of Anna McGurk\n\nAnna Michelle McGurk (\"née\" Potts; 23 August 1968 – 28 August 1991) was an English council worker from Gloucester, Gloucestershire. She was raped and murdered in Gloucester by Andrew Hagans, who was on bail and living at the nearby Ryecroft bail hostel. Hagans had been arrested for the rape of a 20-year-old woman just 24 days before Anna's death. He had a long history of violent crime, and had been imprisoned for burglary. Hagans was sentenced to life imprisonment for Anna's murder, with a concurrent 10-year sentence for the rape.\n\nFollowing a campaign by Kay Potts, Anna McGurk's mother, the crime led to changes in English law. Michael Stephen, then MP for Shoreham, moved the Bail (Amendment) Bill, which became the Bail (Amendment) Act 1993. The police and Crown Prosecution Service can now challenge a decision by magistrates to grant bail to an alleged offender.\n\nThe Anna McGurk Trust, founded in her memory, awards bursaries to pupils of St Peter's High School, where McGurk had been a pupil. There is a small memorial stone in Gloucester.\n"}
{"id": "46952367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46952367", "title": "Nina Dotti", "text": "Nina Dotti\n\nNina Dotti is a character created and interpreted by Venezuelan-born conceptual and performance artist, Nina Fuentes.\n\nIn her role as Nina Dotti, Fuentes employs a multi-dimensional approach to critically exploring social, cultural and political issues confronting contemporary society.\n\nDotti was a multimedia, Miami-based contemporary artist. A pioneering artist in her native Venezuela working for the rights of the LGBT community, she has been described as a feminist artist. Her message is critical, intimate and personal. Her work is neo-conceptual, influenced by Marcel Duchamps, with a pop and surrealistic aesthetic. Her installations are characterized by the use of non-traditional materials and domestic items, making them particularly political.\n\nNina was interested in the representation of social stereotypes (especially feminist issues) and the defense of sexual minorities. This gave her the opportunity to assume an artistic alter-ego who would make a blunt statement regarding her identity: Nina Dotti would be her new name, inspired by Italian photographer Tina Modotti, who had to change her identity to work as an artist. This represented an analogy for what Nina had always stood for: equal rights, end of discrimination and the opportunity for people to be whoever they want to be. She signed her new work \"Plataforma: Forma de hacer plata\" (Money-making Platform) (2005) produced for the \"Transito\" NGO (2005) and inspired from the platform shoes used by transsexuals. That year, Nina performed the streets of Chicago wearing a wedding dress, during which symbolic blessings were given to both homosexual and heterosexual couples as a way to express equality.\n\n\"Pastel de Boda\" (Wedding Cake) was presented in Miami's Hardcore Art Contemporary Spaces (HACS), in a performance in which Dotti would \"marry\" her crowd. This was followed by \"Hot Flashes Bar\", presented during the Arte Americas Art Fair in 2006 where Dotti shared her positive views of menopause with women in a bar, suggesting humor as a way to replace unhealthy medical treatment like hormone replacement therapy in what she called Humor Replacement Therapy, thus empowering women to face menopause as a normal part of life and experience a new kind of sexuality. \n\nOther installations such as The Wedding Cake were presented in the gardens of the International Community Church at Lincoln Road in South Beach, Miami during the city's Art Basel 2006. This piece consisted of an immense wedding cake topped with real couples. From here onwards, \"Picture Perfect Wedding Toppers\" would become her means to express her firm belief that anyone can stand atop a wedding cake and experience life from above, from the most idealistic and romantic vantage point. The cake had three huge tiers that people climbed up to, \"Groom\" and \"Bride\" accessories and wedding rings were available to wear and exchange. Couples from all sexual orientations and entire families climbed up the challenging wooden stairs situated behind the decorated cake. The piece was accompanied by a music piece created in collaboration with Franchesca Saiden and Iris Cegarra with more than 480 wedding songs of all religions and many countries. \n\nIn March 2007 she performed at the \"Circa '07\" art in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in which she received favorable critical reviews with \"Blue Pillar Bar\", calling it a Celebration of Menopause and Andropause. This was followed by \"Dotti's 99 Cent Clichés\" presented at Miami's Hard Core Art Space (HCAS), with a kitsch ensemble of the now famous Dollar stores, Dotti mocks consumer frenzy in society.\n\nHer Superwoman project was based on the Supergirl comics, transformed into her own interpretation of what a superwoman should be: \"free, capable of living with her complexity in a non-conflictive way\". Also in 2006, and as the result of her simultaneous endeavors as art merchant and gallery owner, Nina was invited to exhibit two of her best-known installations \"Wedding Cake\" and \"P.M.S.\" at Gallerie 13 Jeanette Mariani in Paris. \n\nHer pieces revealed a three-edged speech symbolized by the three roles a modern woman must juggle simultaneously: a princess to her parents, a mother to her children and a superwoman in front of life. Nina has explored all major artistic disciplines from sculpture to photography and from mixed media to painting. She uses diverse materials freely on her installations and this pattern is consistent with her attitude towards life, where freedom to choose always prevails. \n\nIn 2008 Nina took part in an exhibition called \"Cartografías Meridionales\" (Southern Cartography) presented at the Museum of Contemporary Art of Rosario, in the city of Rosario, Argentina, in which her P.M.S. performance was shown again.\n\nBy 2012, Nina had expanded her horizons in terms of Plastic Arts. Dot 51 Gallery in Miami was the setting in which her project The Tipping Point was showcased, presenting a blend of different techniques ranging from video installations to sculpture and photography, all encased in gold, a metaphor for the power of wealth and its impact on everyday life, as expressed on Dotti's series of photographs titled Golden Nina.\n\nDuring one of Dotti's many trips to Colombia, she spoke with her grandmother about her origins. She learned that her great-grandfather owned brothels, that some lands under her family's name are yet to be claimed, as well as learning of her origins as a Sephardic Jew. This generated an exhibit in the city of Bucaramanga (2014) titled \"Doña Delincuente – 13 historias\" (Madame Delinquent – 13 Stories), and later her works are represented by Artemisia gallery. This new character created by Nina is inspired by modern Latin American Syncretism in which criminals are revered as saints, with statues for veneration and prayer, as well as a prayer dedicated to Doña Delincuencia. This captured the attention of the citizens, leading to the production of a brand of drink, as well as a local tobacco brand.\n\nNina developed a character based on the story of a Venezuelan Miss Universe-turned-politician called Irene Sáez, who after serving as Mayor of Chacao (Caracas' highest-end municipality), was lured by one of the old establishment parties to oppose Hugo Chávez only to later be dumped by her party shortly before Election Day. Nina turned herself into a beauty queen elected as the Mayor of Wynwood and walking the streets in a provocative performance called \"Miss Wynwood\", presented at Miami's Art Basel 2014 edition.\n\nIn May 2015, Nina started editing a newspaper, \"The Wynwood Times\" that covers news, art, dining, trends and social issues with humor and irony.\n\nIn July 2015, Nina took her exhibit Depójate/Take The Load Off to Kiosco Galería in Santa Cruz de La Sierra, Bolivia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2100494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100494", "title": "Per Bergsland", "text": "Per Bergsland\n\nSgt Per Bergsland (17 January 1918 – 9 June 1992) was a Norwegian POW in the German POW camp Stalag Luft III and one of only three men to escape to freedom in the \"Great Escape\".\n\nDuring in the 1930s Bergsland competed in orienteering, representing the club IL Heming. In 1939 he placed second at the individual Norwegian championship in orienteering held at Modum. He was born in Bærum, but resided at Ullernåsen.\n\nPer Bergsland served as an instructor at flight school in Canada before he transferred to the RAF Ferry Command, where he was assigned to fly with a combat unit. As a member of No. 332 Squadron RAF (332 Sqn) stationed at North Weald airfield, Bergsland's Supermarine Spitfire Mk.Vb, (serial no AB269, coded AH:D) was shot down by a German Focke-Wulf Fw 190 during the Dieppe Raid on 19 August 1942. After arriving at the POW camp, he gave his name as \"Peter Rockland\" (\"Per\" = Petrus, meaning rock in Greek, and \"Berg\" meaning mountain or rock in Norwegian), in order to protect his family in Norway from German reprisals.\n\nIn what later became known as the \"Great Escape\", he was escapee #43 among the 76 prisoners of war who managed to escape from the camp via tunnel with another Norwegian pilot, escapee #44 Jens Müller,\n\nBergsland and Müller made it to the nearby town, where they caught a train to Stettin in Germany (now: Szczecin, Poland). At the port, the pair were snuck onto a Swedish ship by friendly sailors and made it to the safety of Gothenburg. There, they met the British consulate, who arranged travel by train to Stockholm, where they were flown to Scotland from Bromma airport. From there they were sent by train to London and shortly afterwards to 'Little Norway' in Canada.\n\nIn total, only three POWs from Stalag Luft III made it to neutral countries and freedom. \n\nThe third escapee was the Dutchman Bram van der Stok, who crossed most of occupied Europe and escaped to Spain with the help of the French resistance.\n\nThe remaining 73 escapees were captured. Adolf Hitler wanted to execute them all, but Hermann Göring persuaded him not to: in the end, fifty were shot as an example. The remaining 23 were held in the custody of the Gestapo before being sent off to other camps. 17 were returned to Stalag Luft III, four were sent to Sachsenhausen, and two to Colditz Castle.\n\nIn 1946, Per Bergsland began as a pilot in Fred Olsen Air Transport. He later became Chief Pilot and Operational Manager. Per Bergsland became CEO of Fred Olsen Air Transport in 1968 and CEO of Widerøe from 1970 to 1981.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7167052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7167052", "title": "Perkins Opera House", "text": "Perkins Opera House\n\nThe Perkins Opera House (also known as the Monticello Opera House) is a historic theatre in Monticello, Florida. It is located at the corner of Washington Street and Jefferson Street.\n\nThe \"Perkins Block\" was built in 1890 by Monticello businessman John H. Perkins. This building included three first floor bays housing Perkins' mercantile interests - a general store and sewing machine shop, a hardware store and a farm implement supply store. In addition, Perkins built a stable behind the building from which horses, mules and wagons were sold. The second floor of the Perkins Block included a large foyer and an opera house boasting unparalleled acoustics and the largest stage in the region.\n\nPerkins had hopes of establishing the opera house as a major theater in the South. For several years, performances included both professional touring groups and local productions. Shortly after the turn of the century, however, the railroads were re-routed, by-passing Monticello. The wealthy patrons who had once wintered in south Georgia and north Florida sought destinations further south in Florida, and the opera house faced financial disaster.\n\nUnable to attract the once-popular theatre productions, Perkins discontinued live performances. A failed attempt to utilize the building as a movie theater led to the abandonment of the auditorium. Although the downstairs bays saw continuous occupation for a variety of uses, the opera house stood idle and soon fell into disrepair.\n\nIn 1972, the vision of a handful of interested people saved the opera house, with its falling plaster and leaking roof, from the destruction of the wrecker's ball. An organization was formed to provide opportunities for young performers and restore the opera house.\n\nThe Monticello Opera Company was formed in March of that year and performed at the first fund-raising event at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John H. Phipps.\n\nThe purchase of the Perkins Block was consummated on October 17, 1973. On that date, the Monticello Opera House, Inc. purchased the building with money raised through fund-raising efforts, a grant from the State of Florida and a private donation from Mrs. Dorothy Simpson, who held one-half interest in the building.\n\nMaintenance and restoration of the facility continues to this day. In a joint effort with the Florida Department of State, Division of Historic Resources, a restoration project was completed in the area of the original stairway leading to the auditorium balcony. The construction brought the facility into compliance with fire code regulations to allow the lawful use of seating in the balcony. The project was completed with a sensitivity to the original architectural features and makes use of original molding and wainscoting wherever possible. Although the original seating in the balcony remained intact, the seats on the main level of the theater had to be replaced. The current seating was donated by Tallahassee Community College President during the school's renovation of its theater. Installation of the \"new\" seats was accomplished entirely with volunteer labor from members of the community.\n\nAlthough the downstairs had been remodeled to accommodate those with disabilities, it was not until May 2004, that the theater became accessible. In 1999 $25,000 was donated in the memory of Dr. Gerald M. Cathey to institute fund raising efforts for installation of an elevator. An additional $25,000 was raised over the course of the next two years through donations from benefactors and production proceeds from the Opera House Stage Company. A $50,000 matching grant from the Department of State, Division of Historical Resources resulted in the hiring of Riley Palmer Construction to complete this long desired renovation.\n\nThe Monticello Opera House is commonly used for a variety of events including children's theater, murder mystery dinners and large musicals. There is also a patio and gazebo in the back where weddings and receptions are held.\n"}
{"id": "28170174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28170174", "title": "Philympia 1970", "text": "Philympia 1970\n\nThe Philympia 1970 International Stamp Exhibition was an international stamp exhibition held under Fédération Internationale de Philatélie (FIP) patronage. It was held at the Empire Hall, Olympia, London from 18 to 26 September 1970. Special three-colour postmarks were used on each of the eight days of the exhibition. A octagonal tower of British stamps designed by Andrew Chadwick of Hulme Chadwick & Partners with graphics by Barry O'Dwyer, was the main feature. \n\nA set of three stamps were issued on 18 September to publicise the exhibition (S.G. 835/837). They were designed by David Gentleman and depicted the 1840 Penny Black (5d.), the 1847 1s. embossed (9d.) and the 1855 4d. surface-printed stamp (1/6). A 5/- stamp booklet containing 12 5d. stamps was also issued.\n\nThe main awards went to the following exhibits:\n\nThe Grand Prix went to Roger-Louis Loeuillet (France) for ‘France, 1849-70’.\n\nThe Grand Prix d’Honneur was shared by José G. Garcia (Portugal) for ‘Portugal and Colonies’ and Mohamed Dadkhah (Iran) for ‘Persia and Bushire, 1868-79’.\n\nThe best Great Britain exhibit prize went to Harold W. Fisher.\n\nThe best British Commonwealth exhibit prize went to Hiroyuki Kanai (Japan) for ‘Mauritius‘.\n\nList of philatelic exhibitions (by country)\n"}
{"id": "53584058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53584058", "title": "Princess Principal", "text": "Princess Principal\n\n\"Princess Principal\" is set in a fictional analogue of England called Albion. During the early 20th Century, the Kingdom of Albion monopolized a mysterious substance called \"Cavorite\" to construct a fleet of heavily armed airships that made Albion the dominant power in the world. However, the proletariat of Albion grew angry at their country's ruling class for largely ignoring their plight, sparking the \"London Revolution\" where the lower classes attempted to overthrow the royal family. Eventually, the two sides reached a stalemate, and a great wall was erected through the middle of London, splitting Albion into two nations: the Commonwealth and the Kingdom.\n\nSeveral years later, the Commonwealth launches \"Operation Changeling,\" a plan to replace the Kingdom's Princess Charlotte with Ange, a girl who bears a strong resemblance to her, in order to have a highly placed agent within the royal family. However, the Princess turns the plan on the spies, offering to work with the Commonwealth if Ange and her friends will help her become the Queen of the Kingdom. So begins the story as five girls, including the Princess herself, serve as undercover spies in the Kingdom working for the Commonwealth, while enrolled as students at the prestigious Queen's Mayfair school.\n\nThe anime series is animated by Studio 3Hz and Actas. The series is directed by Masaki Tachibana, with scripts written by Ichirō Ōkouchi and character designs by Kouhaku Kuroboshi and Yukie Akiya. The series aired from July 9 to September 24, 2017. The opening theme song is \"The Other Side of the Wall\" performed by Void_Chords and MARU, and the ending theme is \"A Page of My Story\" performed by Ayaka Imamura, Akira Sekine, Yō Taichi, Akari Kageyama, and Nozomi Furuki. Sentai Filmworks has licensed the anime and streamed it on Amazon Prime Video in the U.S. and other streaming sites elsewhere. MVM Films has licensed the series in the UK.\n\nThe series aired in an anachronical order, represented by each episode's \"case\" number.\n\n\"Notes: A = episode number, C = chronological order.\"\n\nA six-series anime film adaptation of the series which will premiere in 2019 was announced on April 29, 2018. The series will follow on from the events of the last episode of the series.\n\n\"Princess Principal\" has garnered significant praise from critics, with many calling it one of the best anime of 2017. \"Kotaku\" picked it as one of best summer 2017 anime series, with writer Cecilia D'Anastasio noting that the \"soundtrack is jazzy madness. Its animation is pure beauty. It’s full of sharp writing, surprises and edge-of-your-seat intrigue.\"\n\nThe music gained positive comments, especially the opening theme song to the series, \"The Other Side of the Wall\". The song was named by Chris Farris and Theron Martin from Anime News Network as the best theme song of 2017. It was also nominated for the best opening song at the 2017 Crunchyroll's Anime Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "21629858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21629858", "title": "Red Bull Paper Wings", "text": "Red Bull Paper Wings\n\nRed Bull Paper Wings is a world paper airplane championship which is held by Red Bull under the rules developed by the Paper Aircraft Association (PAA). The competition was first held in 2006. Contestants from 99 countries from around the world qualified for the 2009 competition. The third Red Bull Paper Wings world finals took place on May 4–5, 2012. The final round of the competition takes place in Red Bull's Hangar 7 in Salzburg, Austria, and is monitored by Guinness Book of World Records officials.\n\nThe competition crowns champions in three categories: distance, hangtime, and aerobatics.\n\nThe two-time defending champion of the Paper Wings Distance competition is Ronin Ivan from Split, Croatia.\n\nHistorically, the representatives from the United States do poorly despite having fifteen representatives relative to the three from every other country. This trend has been questioned for the 2012 competition as John Hart was the 7th ceded player in the distance competition. In the first event in 2006, Randy Fischer (Team USA West) placed 5th in the hangtime competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "28233633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28233633", "title": "Revolution Day", "text": "Revolution Day\n\nRevolution Day or the Day of the Revolution refers to public holidays or remembrance days in various country held in commemoration of an important event in the country's history, usually the starting point or a turning point in a revolution that led to significant political change.\nThe leap day in the French Republican Calendar, in use for several years after the French Revolution, added after a franciade, is also known as \"Revolution Day\" (\"Jour de la Révolution\" or \"Fête de la Révolution\" in French). See Sansculottides for details.\n\n"}
{"id": "2942536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2942536", "title": "Robert Morton Nance", "text": "Robert Morton Nance\n\nRobert Morton Nance (1873–1959) was a leading authority on the Cornish language, nautical archaeologist, and joint founder of the Old Cornwall Society.\n\nNance was born in Cardiff to Cornish parents. He wrote many books and pamphlets on the Cornish language, including a Cornish dictionary, which is a standard work, and edited magazines and pamphlets about Cornwall, including \"Old Cornwall\", the journal of the Federation of Old Cornwall Societies. Nance was also a nautical archaeologist of distinction and was an originator of the Society for Nautical Research. His insight and learning were displayed in his book \"Sailing-ship Models\" which appeared in 1924. He studied art in Britain and France and was both a painter and a skilled craftsman.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50966529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50966529", "title": "Ronald dela Rosa", "text": "Ronald dela Rosa\n\nRonald Marapon dela Rosa (born January 21, 1962), also known as Bato dela Rosa or simply Bato (), is a retired Filipino police officer who serves as the Director General of the Director of the Bureau of Corrections from April 30, 2018 until October 12, 2018. He served as Philippine National Police Chief from July 1, 2016 to April 19, 2018.\n\nDela Rosa was born on January 21, 1962 at Barangay Bato, Santa Cruz, Davao del Sur, to Teodoro Diamaton dela Rosa, Sr. and Anesia Cruspero Marapon. His family was \"dirt poor\" as his father earned little money working as a tricycle driver. The young Dela Rosa worked as a fish market porter and bus conductor. He also did his classmates' homework in exchange for lunch. He used to walk 8 kilometers daily from school to home.\n\nDela Rosa was educated at Bato Elementary School and Sta. Cruz National High School before attending Mindanao State University (MSU) to study for a Bachelor of Science degree in public administration. In 1982, he left MSU to join the Philippine Military Academy (PMA) and graduated in 1986 as part of PMA \"Sinagtala\" class. He then earned a Masters of Public Administration degree in 1998 and a Ph.D. in development administration in 2006 from the University of Southeastern Philippines in Davao City.\n\nDela Rosa completed a Scout Ranger Orientation Course, Police Intelligence Officer Advance Course, Police Officers’ Comptrollership Course, and the Police Safety Officer Course. He also attended training courses of the FBI Academy and U.S. Army Ranger School in the United States, and Air Marshal Instructors Course by the Australian Federal Police.\n\nDela Rosa was nicknamed \"Bato\" during his first assignment in Davao, when his upperclassmen likened his body to a rock.\n\nDela Rosa joined the police force in 1986 as a Lieutenant of the now-defunct Philippine Constabulary in Davao City. In 1992, he was designated as Chief Inspector and worked as one of the staff at Police Regional Office (PRO)-Davao. In 1997, he was designated as police provincial director of Compostela Valley province.\nIn 1999, he was assigned to the office of the Police Director of the Philippine National Police (PNP) at Camp Crame in Quezon City. In 2001, he returned to PRO-Davao and continued his service as deputy chief of the Office of the Regional Personnel and Human Resource and Development Division (ORPHRDD) of Region XI. In 2003, he was promoted to Police Superintendent and was assigned to Camp Catitipan in Davao City. He was then transferred to the Directorate for Human Resources Doctrine and Development as head of training. In 2005, he was assigned to the Davao City Police Office (DCPO) as city personnel officer. After eight months, he was transferred back to PRO-Davao and was promoted as chief of the Regional Intelligence and Investigation Division (RIID). In 2007, he became the director of the Compostela Valley Provincial Police Office (CVPPO) as its police chief. In 2008, he was promoted to a rank of Senior Superintendent. In 2009, he was moved to Davao del Sur where he served as director of the Davao del Sur Provincial Police Office (DSPPO). In 2011, he became the chief of the Regional Logistics and Research Development Division (RL-RDD) in PRO-Davao. In 2012, he was assigned to Davao City as the new director of the Davao City Police Office.\n\nDela Rosa served as the chief of the Davao City Police Office from January 2012 to October 2013 under Mayors Sara Duterte (in office: June 30, 2010 – June 30, 2013) and Rodrigo Duterte (in office: June 30, 2013 – June 30, 2016). In 2012, he led the crackdown on the carnapping syndicate allegedly masterminded by Ryan \"Baktin\" Yu. In July 2013, he headed the successful rescue of the kidnapped Filipino-Chinese businesswoman Sally Chua. He also directed the implementation of \"Oplan Tokhang\" (Cebuano portmanteau for \"tuktok\", \"knock\", and \"hangyo\", \"persuade\") a campaign against illegal drugs where the police literally knock on the doors of suspected drug users and distributors and persuade them to cease their illegal activities; and \"Oplan Pakgang\", (Cebuano portmanteau for “\"Pitulon ang Kabatan-onan sa Gang\"”, “Disciplining Youths in Gangs”) where the police, through a series of lectures and discussions, discouraged Davao City’s youth from joining criminal gangs and other illegal activities.\n\nAfter serving as Davao City Police Chief, Dela Rosa was assigned to the national headquarters of the Philippine National Police in Camp Crame where he worked for the PNP Intelligence Group from October 2013 to December 2014.\n\nIn 2015, Dela Rosa became a member of the PNP Board of Inquiry which investigated the Mamasapano clash. The aforementioned incident claimed the lives of 44 Special Action Force commandos, 17 Moro Islamic Liberation Front members and five civilians while the cops were on a mission to arrest international terrorist Zulkifli Abdhir, alias Marwan.\n\nDela Rosa also served as the executive officer of the Directorate for Human Resource and Doctrine Development (HRDD).\n\nA few days before the May 9, 2016 Philippine general election, Dela Rosa was relieved as brigade commander of the Reactionary Standby Support Force (RSSF) of the Philippine National Police allegedly due to his Facebook posts seen to be in favor of then presidential candidate Rodrigo Duterte. A Facebook status posted on May 1, 2016 which had gone viral read: Another Facebook post dated April 26, 2016 said: During the PiliPinas Debates 2016 – Luzon leg, the third and final presidential debate, Duterte said that his main campaign donor was Emilio Aguinaldo, while Liberal Party standard-bearer Mar Roxas quoted Batman. However, Dela Rosa's commanding officer at that time, PNP deputy chief for operations Deputy Director General Danilo Constantino, denied that Dela Rosa's Facebook posts were the main reasons why he was relieved of his duty. According to Deputy Director General Constantino, Chief Superintendent Dela Rosa was relieved from the Reactionary Standby Support Force (RSSF) so that he could focus on his responsibilities as executive officer of the PNP Directorate for Human Resource and Doctrine Development (HRDD). Nonetheless, Constantino stated that the PNP Internal Affairs Service will investigate Dela Rosa's Facebook posts for possible administrative liabilities as the officers of the Philippine National Police are required to be neutral and apolitical during the elections.\n\nDela Rosa was handpicked by then presumptive President Rodrigo Duterte as the new PNP Chief on May 19, 2016. On July 1, 2016, he was officially sworn in as the 21st chief of the Philippine National Police while being promoted to Director-General, the highest-ranked PNP officer. In October 2017, Dela Rosa accused Vice President Leni Robredo of having political ambitions to become president despite still working in her current job. After a few days, he hinted that he himself may run for president in 2022 and would double the pay of police officers if elected. He was set to retire on January 21 due to the mandatory retirement at age 56, but his term was extended for 3 months until April 21, 2018.\n\nOn April 30, 2018, Dela Rosa was appointed as Director General of the Bureau of Corrections. The appointment document was released publicly on May 3.\n\nDela Rosa has been married to Nancy Johnson Comandante since 1989, and they have three children together. During his wedding, then-Davao City Mayor Rodrigo Duterte stood as one of the principal sponsors. Duterte and Dela Rosa had known each other since 1986. He has described Duterte as \"the greatest influence\" in his career.\n\nIn May 2017, dela Rosa’s only son, Rock, entered the Philippine National Police Academy as a cadet.\n\nOn June 19, 2017, dela Rosa was the guest of honor and speaker at the celebration of José Rizal’s 156th birth anniversary. He claimed that he was related to the national hero through a common ancestor named Ines dela Rosa.\n\nDela Rosa is a Catholic. In a June 2016 radio interview on DZMM, Dela Rosa mentioned that he frequently goes to confession to seek forgiveness after he has killed criminals, declaring that he is \"no cold-blooded killer\".\n\nSince he became the PNP chief, he has appeared or guested in several TV shows, most notably in the \"Trabahula\" segment of ABS-CBN's noontime variety show, \"It's Showtime\", and GMA's sunday variety show, \"Sunday PinaSaya\" where he met Rodney \"Dugong\" Juterte, President Rodrigo Duterte's comedic impersonator portrayed by Jose Manalo.\n\nDela Rosa is a longtime fan of PBA team Barangay Ginebra San Miguel.\n\n\nNotes\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "57118012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57118012", "title": "Sinclairvisan", "text": "Sinclairvisan\n\n\"Sinclairvisan\" or \"Sinclairsvisan\" (\"The Sinclair Song\") is a Swedish propaganda song with 90 verses, written by Anders Odel in 1739 to the \"La Folia\" melody. The song describes the murder of the Swedish diplomat, \"friherre\", and major Malcolm Sinclair. Sinclair was murdered in 1739, while on a diplomatic mission, by two Russian officers acting on orders from the Russian government.\n\nThe song is narrated by the shepherd Celadon, who describes how he is brought by a \"strange old man\" into the Elysian Fields. He watches as the murdered Sinclair enters a great castle, where he is greeted by 12 kings (\"twelve Swedish Carls\", i.e. Charles I–XII), to whom he relates the circumstances of his death.\n\nThe song is included as an uncharacteristic entry in Erik Gustaf Geijer and Arvid August Afzelius's influential folk song collection \"Svenska folk-visor från forntiden\". According to the authors, the song was popularly held to have been penned by Jacob Henrik Mörk, author of \"Adelriks och Giöthildas äfwentyr\" (1742-44), until a draft of the song was found among Odel's manuscripts. They also note that older publications of the song include an epilogue, in which the \"A\" and \"O\" in \"Celadon\" are emphasized, hinting at the author's initials.\n\n"}
{"id": "36917687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36917687", "title": "Strikeforce: Cormier vs. Mir", "text": "Strikeforce: Cormier vs. Mir\n\nStrikeforce: Cormier vs. Mir was a planned mixed martial arts event that was to be held by Strikeforce. The event was scheduled to take place on November 3, 2012 at the Chesapeake Energy Arena in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.\n\nThe main event was expected to be see Strikeforce Heavyweight Grand Prix champion Daniel Cormier face former UFC Heavyweight Champion Frank Mir. However, Mir was forced to withdraw due to injury. Though fellow UFC fighters Matt Mitrione (who declined the fight) & Pat Barry were possible replacements for Mir, the bout was eventually cancelled. The Cormier/Mir bout would eventually take place at in April 2013, following Strikeforce's closure and Cormier's signing with the UFC. In the rescheduled match-up, Cormier won by unanimous decision.\n\nA middleweight championship bout between champion Luke Rockhold and Lorenz Larkin was originally scheduled for this event, but was called off due to an injury to Rockhold. The bout was rescheduled for the promotion's last event in January 2013, but both Rockhold and Larkin were replaced by Ronaldo Souza and UFC middleweight Ed Herman due to their own respective injuries.\n\nOn October 12, 2012, Strikeforce announced it was cancelling this event, the second in a row. Injuries to headliner Frank Mir, as well as co-headliner and middleweight champion Luke Rockhold were cited as the deciding factors for the cancellation. Following the cancellation, the bout between Tim Kennedy & Trevor Smith was rescheduled for in January 2013, where Kennedy won via third round submission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17579791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17579791", "title": "Teatro Argentino de La Plata", "text": "Teatro Argentino de La Plata\n\nThe Teatro Argentino de La Plata is the second most important lyric opera house in Argentina, after the Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires. The theatre is located in a central block of the city of La Plata, the capital of Buenos Aires Province. The venue occupies the block bounded by the 9 and 10 streets and 51 & 53 avenues; it belongs to the \"Monumental Axis\" of public buildings in La Plata. \n\nThe original building was a classic Italian opera house, conceived in renaissance style by the Italian architect Leopoldo Rocchi. Construction began in 1887, five years after the foundation of the city of La Plata itself. The main hall had a capacity of \"ca.\" 1,500 seats. It was inaugurated on November 19, 1890, with Giuseppe Verdi's \"Otello\"; in leading roles were the Italian soprano Elvira Colonnese (Desdemona) and the Uruguayan tenor José Oxilia (Othello).\nThe theatre grew to accommodate a renowned stable orchestra and chorus. A stable ballet company was added in 1946. Among the great artists that performed at the Teatro Argentino we find singers such as Maria Barrientos, Luisa Tetrazzini, Marian Anderson, Emma Carelli, Fedora Barbieri, Tito Schipa, Beniamino Gigli, Titta Ruffo, and Mario del Monaco, classical ballet dancers such as Anna Pavlova, Dore Hoyer and Iris Scaccheri, as well as musicians such as Pietro Mascagni, Richard Strauss (with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra), Arthur Rubinstein, Andrés Segovia, Alexander Brailowsky, Claudio Arrau, Pablo Casals, and Yehudi Menuhin.\n\nUnfortunately, a major fire destroyed the original building in 1977, leaving only the badly damaged exterior walls standing. Against national and international outcry, the \"de facto\" government of the military dictatorship at the time (the so-called \"Proceso de Reorganizacion Nacional\") decided against rebuilding the original classic structure. Instead, it chose to replace it with a massive Theatre & Cultural Centre designed in a brutalist style, located on the same city block. During the intervening years (1977–1999), the Teatro Argentino companies continued to produce performances in various La Plata venues, notably the former movie theatre, the Cine Gran Rocha. After much planning and rescheduling due to economic difficulties, the new building was finished and inaugurated on October 12, 1999 with a performance that included excerpts from works of Giuseppe Verdi, Charles Gounod, Umberto Giordano and Gaetano Donizetti, as well as the ballet \"Tango en gris\" (\"Tango in grey\"), with music by Atilio Stampone and \"régie\" by Oscar Araiz. \n\nThe new complex includes today a 2,000-seat operatic venue with a typical European horseshoe structure, named Alberto Ginastera Hall after the famous Argentine composer. An enormous three-tonne bronze chandelier with 400 light-bulbs hangs over the main floor, in an exact replica of the one featured in the original building.\n\nThe complex also includes the smaller 300-seat Ástor Piazzolla Hall, as well as rehearsal areas, and space for the associated technical shops. The lower level includes the Emilio Pettoruti Exhibition Hall for permanent and transient art collections.\n\nDespite the excellent technical facilities and the superb acoustics of the main hall, the complex itself, built in brutalist style, continues to be regarded as a sort of eyesore by the local population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11184122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11184122", "title": "Texas Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Texas Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Texas Shakespeare Festival is a professional summer theatre housed in the Anne Dean Turk Fine Arts Center on the campus of Kilgore College, Kilgore, Texas. TSF presents four weeks of performances during late June and July of five productions in repertory: two plays by Shakespeare, a classic, a musical, and a children's show.\n\nEstablished in 1986, the Texas Shakespeare Festival began as Kilgore College's contribution to the Texas Sesquicentennial celebration. The brainchild of Raymond Caldwell, a faculty member within the theatre program at Kilgore College and subsequent Artistic Director of the Festival, the first season of TSF consisted of two plays by Shakespeare and \"The Daisy Bradford 3\", a regional work commissioned for the celebration telling the story of the East Texas oil boom by Gifford Wingate, all performed by a small company of professional actors. The overwhelming popularity and quality of the summer theatre experience for the people of East Texas catapulted what was to have been a one-time event into an organization that is celebrating its second decade of performances.\nMore than 1000 theatre artists have worked at TSF including such well-known personalities as Michael C. Hall (\"Six Feet Under\"; \"Dexter\"); Danny Pino (\"Cold Case\"); Glenn Fleshler (\"Spring Awakening\"; \"Guys and Dolls\"); Rick Holmes (\"Spamalot\"); Andrew Samonsky (\"South Pacific\"; \"Tick, Tick... Boom!\"); Glenn Kessler (Creator, Producer, Director and Actor for \"Damages\"); and Keythe Farley (co-author, \"\").\n\nThe Texas Shakespeare Festival is listed as a Major Festival in the book \"Shakespeare Festivals Around the World\" by Marcus D. Gregio (Editor), 2004.\n\nIn more than twenty years, the Texas Shakespeare Festival has produced twenty-nine plays of Shakespeare’s canon, as well as multiple American and European classics, original works, numerous musicals, and very successful shows for young audiences. Their work with young audience led to them being awarded a grant in 2005 to further support youth activities. The Festival continues to audition and employ professional directors, actors, designers, and technicians, as well as giving many university students from all across America their first summer theatre experience. The Festival has attracted a range of attention throughout its more than two-decades of performances. In 1999 a production of \"\" produced by the Kilgore College Theatre Department and directed by Caldwell, led to death threats, anti-gay protests and a withdrawal of more than $50,000 in funding by the Gregg County Commissioners. Subsequently, however, the Festival received grants from both Paul Newman's Own PEN Center, the Dramatists Guild of America, and other sympathetic sources nationwide.\n\nKilgore College provides the majority of the funding for the Festival, and provides a range of other support for the festival including: rehearsal facilities, office spaces, the Van Cliburn Auditorium, dormitory housing and meals for the entire company, scholarships for the apprentices, printing, publicity and public relations. Additional grants and foundations enable the Texas Shakespeare Festival to continue as a strong and vital cultural asset and tourist attraction for all of East Texas. The Festival is also credited as bringing a degree of sophistication in the arts world to East Texas. In return, the Festival supports the college with grant funding to help refurbish the auditorium in which it performs.\n"}
{"id": "3118146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3118146", "title": "The Attic: The Hiding of Anne Frank", "text": "The Attic: The Hiding of Anne Frank\n\nThe Attic: The Hiding of Anne Frank is a 1988 television film directed by John Erman, based on Miep Gies's book \"Anne Frank Remembered\". The film was broadcast as part of an ad hoc network, Kraft Golden Showcase Network. Playwright William Hanley received an Emmy for his script.\n\nIn 1940, the Nazis invade the Netherlands. Miep Gies is a young woman, and an office assistant of Otto Frank, who is Jewish. As the Nazis begin to kill the Jews, Otto Frank becomes worried about his family. In July 1942, Otto Frank decides to hide his family after his daughter Margot is called to appear for transport to a Nazi labor camp. Miep, who is trusted by Otto, hides them in the attic above the office, that was called The Annexe. The film tells the true story of Gies' struggle to keep the family hidden and safe, as the Nazis turn Amsterdam upside-down.\n\nA few days later, the van Daans join the Franks in hiding, and after some months Albert Dussel, a Jewish dentist, joins them in hiding. Miep, her husband Jan Gies, along with Miep's fellow office workers Mr Kraler, Mr Koophuis, and Elli actively helps the innocent Jews to hide. Miep is never able to keep these hiders out of her thoughts, and she does her best to protect them. But all her efforts are destroyed on August 4, 1944. The Gestapo is informed about the hiders, and they come to the building to arrest them. Mr Kraler and Mr Koophuis are arrested with the hiders, while Miep is spared because she is Austrian (which was pro-Nazi since the Anschluss took over in 1938, the year before the war started as it is German-speaking and the birthplace of Hitler) as well as a Gentile, and Karl Silberbauer, the Gestapo officer who arrested the hiders, was also an Austrian Gentile. So, out of mercy, Silberbauer spares Miep. After the arrest, Miep and Jan go to the annex, and Miep finds Anne Frank's diary in the floor of Anne's room, and she collects it before the Annex is emptied by the Nazis. A day later, Miep decides to bribe Silberbauer in return of her friends, but Silberbauer denies. The war is finished a few months later, and Otto Frank safely returns to Amsterdam. Miep and Jan shelter him. Otto tells Miep that Mrs Frank had died in the Auschwitz concentration camp, and Mr van Daan was gassed by the Nazis in Auschwitz. However, Anne, Margot and Mrs van Daan were sent to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, which was not a death camp, and Otto has high hopes for them. But a few days later, a letter comes to Otto informing him that Anne and Margot died in Bergen-Belsen. Otto tells Miep, who is distraught. Miep takes Anne's diary, which she has not read, from her drawer and gives it to Otto Frank. While Otto reads Anne's diary, Miep goes to Anne's room in the hiding place, and sits in a chair. She then leaves the building, and the films ends with her cycling home, as we hear her speak in a voice-over.\n\n\nPrimetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Miniseries, Movie or a Dramatic Special (1988)\n\n"}
{"id": "939534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939534", "title": "W*A*L*T*E*R", "text": "W*A*L*T*E*R\n\nW*A*L*T*E*R is a failed 1984 television pilot for a spin-off of \"M*A*S*H\" that was never picked up. It starred Gary Burghoff, who reprised his \"M*A*S*H\" character.\n\nThe episode relates the adventures of Corporal Walter \"Radar\" O'Reilly after he returns home from the Korean War. He is no longer calling himself \"Radar\" and has moved away from Iowa after he sent his mother to live with his aunt. Settling in St. Louis, Missouri, by the beginning of the series he has become a police officer, though his character is still as in the original series.\n\nThe episode opens with Walter O'Reilly in his cousin Wendell Micklejohn's apartment. They are getting ready for their workday while watching the start of a television interview. The interview shows journalist Clete Roberts following up on the members of the M*A*S*H 4077th. The previous week Roberts had interviewed Hawkeye Pierce, and this week he is catching up with O'Reilly. At the police department and through store windows on the street, O'Reilly and Micklejohn catch pieces of the television interview, giving viewers of the pilot a chance to sample the potential series and to build a bridge between the events of \"M*A*S*H\" and \"W*A*L*T*E*R\".\n\nViewers learn that O'Reilly returned to Iowa, where he failed at farming. He sold the farm and the livestock and sent his mother off to live with his aunt. His bride left him for another man during their honeymoon. O'Reilly decided to commit suicide, and went to a drug store to buy sleeping pills for an overdose (as well as aspirin, because sleeping pills give him headaches). The drugstore clerk, Victoria, cheered him up and they became good friends. His cousin Wendell helped him get a job on the police force. Walter solves a dispute between two strippers, and gets his wallet back from a young would-be thief whose father had died in Korea.\n\n\nThe episode takes place after the series finale of \"M*A*S*H\", and a two part guest appearance on \"AfterMASH\", in which Radar was forced to leave the family farm.\n\nSince the pilot was never picked up by CBS as a series, it was shown as a \"CBS Special Presentation\" on July 17, 1984. It was shown once in the Eastern and Central time zones of the United States, but pre-empted on the West Coast by CBS News coverage of the Democratic National Convention. This is the only known broadcast of the pilot.\n\n"}
{"id": "11393571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11393571", "title": "Women's Cricket World Cup Qualifier", "text": "Women's Cricket World Cup Qualifier\n\nThe ICC Women's Cricket World Cup Qualifier is an international cricket tournament that serves as the final step of the qualification process for the Women's Cricket World Cup.\n\nThe Women's World Cup was first held in 1973, and for the first seven editions participation was determined solely by invitation, issued at the discretion of the International Women's Cricket Council (IWCC). A qualification tournament was first held in 2003 (for the 2005 World Cup), which was hosted by the Netherlands and won by Ireland. Three subsequent tournaments have been held – in 2008, hosted by South Africa and won by Pakistan; in 2011, hosted by Bangladesh and won by the West Indies; and in 2017, hosted by Sri Lanka and won by India.\n\nThe inaugural event in 2003 was organised by the IWCC and branded as the IWCC Trophy. The IWCC was subsumed by the International Cricket Council (ICC) in 2005, and all other editions have been known simply as the World Cup Qualifier. The number of teams and qualifying places has varied at each tournament – in 2003, six teams competed for two qualifying spots, while at the next edition (in 2008) eight teams contested two qualifying spots. The 2011 event saw ten teams compete for three qualifying places, and the 2017 tournament featured ten teams and four qualifying places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56021783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56021783", "title": "World Cycling Day", "text": "World Cycling Day\n\nWorld Cycling Day(also known as WCD) is held annually on the 17th of September internationally. Its inception as the first global cycling cultural festival was celebrated in 2017, the year coincides with the 200th anniversary of the birth of bicycles.\nThe WCD is celebrated on Sep 17 annually, as the number “917” is the Chinese homonym of “Just Cycle”. On this day, the organizers appeal and advocate that citizens should pay close attention to cities’ sustainable development; take actions to reduce traffic congestion and air pollution by cycling instead of driving; feel and love the cities through riding bicycles, and make the cities a better place.\nThe theme for WCD 2017 is “Cycling Changes Cities”. During the event, besides encouraging the users to travel by bicycles and promoting green travel, Mobike works with various organizations and business partners, user communities in more than 170 cities worldwide to organize rich online and offline activities, giving out various awards and virtual medals through its APP to encourage and attract more people to travel by bicycles in order to contribute to a low carbon, green and healthy city, and a pollution free earth.\n\nMany international cities such as Singapore, London, Manchester, Florence, and Sapporo have participated actively in 2017’s WCD events, together with cities in China, to boost green and shared travels.\n"}
{"id": "55247139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55247139", "title": "Yidan Prize", "text": "Yidan Prize\n\nThe Yidan Prize (/ji: ‘dan/） is an educational prize founded in 2016 by Dr. Charles Chen. The prize is awarded each year to two individuals or organizations whose work has made profound contributions to education research and development. The prize comprises two categories: the Yidan Prize for Education Research, which recognizes outstanding research that makes significant contributions to education, and the Yidan Prize for Education Development, which recognizes innovative ideas that tackle pressing challenges in the field of education.\n\nThe prize is financed and governed by a HK$2.5 billion (about US$320 million) independent trust. Each prize carries an award of HK$30 million (about US$3.87 million) – half cash award and half project fund – as well as a gold medal. Through a series of initiatives, the prize serves to provide a platform that allows the global community to engage in conversation around education and to play a role in education philanthropy.\n\nNominees can be either individuals or teams of up to three representatives, who can be teachers, researchers, academics, policy makers and advocates among others. The two independent judging panels will screen valid nominations and select a candidate for each prize category. Candidates are assessed on four criteria: future orientation, innovation, transformation and sustainability.\n\nThe Yidan Prize unveiled its inaugural laureates on 19 September 2017 in Hong Kong. They are Carol S. Dweck of Stanford University and Vicky Colbert, founder and director of Fundación Escuela Nueva. At the inaugural Yidan Prize Award Presentation Ceremony and the Yidan Prize Summit, they shared their ground-breaking work in education.\n\nThe prize was established in 2016 by the Yidan Prize Foundation. Chen Yidan (English name Charles Chen), established the foundation and the prize to promote educational causes globally. \n\nThe first prize winners were announced during September 2017 and the first award ceremony took place during December 2017 in Hong Kong. The two 2018 laureates were Anant Agarwal and Larry Hedges.\n\nThe prize is overseen by the Yidan Prize Foundation.\nThe members of the global advisory board are:\n\n\nGiven on an annual basis, the Yidan Prize recognizes and supports individuals for forward-looking innovations that creates sustainable impacts on the education systems of today and tomorrow. Each nomination is reviewed according to a set of rigorous criteria in order to identify the very best individuals. Projects must be sustainable,future-oriented, transformative and innovative.\n\nThe Yidan Prize invites government bodies, non-government organizations and professional associations, and individual thought leaders, to propose nominees. Self-nomination is allowed in exceptional cases. Nominees can be individuals or working teams of up to three people and can be teachers, researchers, academics, policy makers, advocates or those who work in related roles. Posthumous nominations are not accepted but nominees who are not awarded can be nominated again in the future.\n\nThe Yidan Prize is managed and governed by the Yidan Prize Foundation board of directors, an international judging committee and a global advisory board formed by a respected team of independent and authoritative experts. The board of directors is responsible for approving the judging committee’s awardee recommendations.\n\nThe Judging Committee is responsible for screening nominations and selecting laureates. It comprises two independent judging panels. The committee is composed of:\n\nChairman: Dr Koichiro Matsuura - former director-general, UNESCO\n\nThe Yidan Prize for Education Research Judging Panel\n\n\nThe Yidan Prize for Education Development Judging Panel\n\n\nThe Yidan Prizes consist of a medal as well as a financial award for each recipient. The medals were designed by Kan Tai-keung. They feature a book motif on one side representing important texts in Chinese literature, On the other side, the Yidan Prize Foundation logo is incorporated with scenes of a figure contemplating the horizon near a tree. The financial award of a cash prize of HK$15 million and a project fund of HK$15 million to each of the two top candidates is supported by a US$320 million endowment. The inaugural laureates for the Yidan Prize, Dr Carol Dweck and Vicky Colbert, were announced on September 19, 2017.\n\nOn September 19, 2017, the Yidan Prize Foundation launched the first Worldwide Educating for the Future Index. The index was commissioned by the Yidan Prize Foundation and conducted by the Economist Intelligence Unit. It evaluates how 35 developed and developing economies, representing 88% of global GDP and 77% of global population, are preparing the next generation with the skills needed for the future. The index is based on 16 indicators across three thematic categories: education policy, teaching environment and socio-economic environment. It's the world’s first ever comprehensive benchmarking tool that focuses on inputs to education systems, as opposed to outputs such as test scores. The index examines the strengths and weaknesses of education systems for the next generation and creates a blueprint for governments to improve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32145937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32145937", "title": "Zorrilla Theater", "text": "Zorrilla Theater\n\nThe Teatro Zorrilla or Zorrilla Theatre, also known as the Duláang Zorrilla sa Maynila (\"Zorrilla Theater in Manila\") in Tagalog, was a prominent theatre in the Philippines. Once located along Calle Iris (now a part of C.M. Recto Avenue), Manila, the theatre was named after José Zorrilla (1817 - 1893), a Spanish poet and playwright. The building, which had a seating capacity of 900 people, was officially opened on 17 August 1893, and it was the venue for Spanish-language and Tagalog-language stage performances.\n\n\n"}
