{"id": "34742655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34742655", "title": "'Abd al-Razzaq al-Hasani", "text": "'Abd al-Razzaq al-Hasani\n\n'Abd al-Razzaq al-Hasani () (1903–1997) was an Iraqi historian and politician. Al-Hasani was a prominent proponent of Iraqi nationalism. He was also a proponent of Arab nationalism.\n\nAl-Hasani in a 1924 article titled \"Shi'i Majority in Iraq\" warned of the dangers of discrimination by the Sunni-dominated government against the Shi'a majority of Iraq's citizens as having the potential to harm attempts to forge national unity in Iraq.\n\nAl-Hasani was a strong opponent of the British Mandate of Mesopotamia and British influence in Iraq, claiming the British believed that power in the mandate belonged to them alone and not to Iraqis at all.\n\nAl-Hassani is noted for having written a book titled \"The Political History of Iraq\" (in the Arabic language), in which he considered the Hamrin Mountain Range as a natural border of Kurdistan. His approach towards this sensitive issue concerning the border created controversy about the ethnicity of Kirkuk city. Kirkuk is a multiethnic city in Iraq. The ethnic identity of the city has been disputed among Kurds, Turkmen, Arabs, and Assyrians. This controversial approach was also supported in the past by many foreign researchers, including Cecil J. Edmonds in his book, \"Kurds, Turks and Arabs. Politics, Travel and Research in North-eastern Iraq, 1919-1925\", published by London: Oxford Press, 1957.\n\nAl-Hassani has other famous books as \"Tarikh Al-Ahwarat Al-Iraqi\" ( \"History of Iraqi Marshes\") and \"Ancient and Modern Iraq\" published by Al-Irfan press, Saida, Lebanon, 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "10928105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10928105", "title": "Adrian Kashchenko", "text": "Adrian Kashchenko\n\nAdrian Kashchenko () (19 September 1858 - 16 March 1921) was a well-known Ukrainian writer, historian of Zaporozhian Cossacks.\n\nAdrian Kashchenko was born in the family of small landowner claiming its roots to the Zaporozhian Cossacks in Yekaterinoslav Governorate (modern Dnipropetrovsk Oblast). Sharing the amongst nine siblings one of whom Mykola Kashchenko - would become a Ukrainian academician and the founder of Kiev Botanical Gardens. Adrian studied several years in gymnasium and military college, served as a small rank officer. Not finding himself in military career, A. Kashchenko became a clerk in the railway department, married and settled in Yekaterinoslav for some time. During his railway service Kashchenko was transferred to Perm, Saint-Petersburg, Tuapse and back to Yekaterinoslav. Although he was married, his wife later left, though she remained financially dependent on him.\nKashchenko wrote both documentary and fiction stories about life of Zaporozhians and their environment. Among them short stories \"Zaporozhska slava\" (\"Zaporizhian fame\"), \"Na ruinakh Sichi\" (\"On the ruins of Sich\"), \"Mandrivka na porohy\" (\"Trip to the sills\"). At stories \"Z Dnipra na Dunai\" (\"From Dnieper to Dunai\"), \"Zruinovane gnizdo\" (\"Ruined nest\") where he attempted to show the negative aspects following the break-up of the Zaporozhian Host. Several documentary portraits of Cossack leaders were created: \"Nad Kodatskim porohom\" (\"Under the Kodak sill\") about Hetman Ivan Sulima, \"Hetman Sahaidachny\", \"Kost Hordienko-Holovko - last knight of Zaporizhia\".\n\nMost of Adrian Kashchenko works were published in 1917 - 1919, during the epoch of Ukraine after the Russian Revolution and Ukrainian People's Republic (previous attempts did not gain wide publication due to the censorship in the Russian Empire). At that time Kashchenko took part in the Ukrainian \"Prosvita\" (\"Enlightenment\") society activities and even founded his own publishing house. Sudden illness and subsequent death in 1921 put an end to his scientific and public career.\n\nPrinting of Kashchenko stories was only renewed after Ukraine became independent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50634435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50634435", "title": "Anders Gullberg", "text": "Anders Gullberg\n\nKarl Anders Torbjörn Gullberg (born 1947) is a Swedish social scientist, urban historian, technology historian, and former adjunct professor at the Division of History of Science, Technology and Environment at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.\n\nGullberg was the head of Kommittén för Stockholmsforskning (Stockholm Research) and Stockholmia Publishing from 2005–14. He currently works for the Centre for Sustainable Communications at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.\n\nHe has published several books and articles, notably \"City – drömmen om ett nytt hjärta (City – the dream of a new heart)\", a history and study of the redevelopment of Stockholm’s Central Business District 1951–79. He has also published \"Images of the Future City: Time and space for sustainable development\" (with Mattias Höjer and Ronny Pettersson), a vision of the sustainable city of the future, and \"Congestion Taxes in City Traffic: Lessons learnt from the Stockholm Trial\" (with Karolina Isaksson).\n\nGullberg has recently launched the vision of an Integrated Information and Payment Platform for solving traffic problems in urban transport.\n\n\n\n\nhttp://urbancity.se/in-english/.\n\n"}
{"id": "26014290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26014290", "title": "Annie Kriegel", "text": "Annie Kriegel\n\nAnnie Kriegel, née Annie Becker (born 9 September 1926, Paris; died August 26, 1995, Paris), was a French historian, a leading expert on communist studies and the history of Communism, a cofounder (1982) of the academic journal \"Communisme\" (with Stéphane Courtois), and a columnist for \"Le Figaro\".\n\nAs a student, Kriegel was a member of the French Communist Party but changed her political views after the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956 and became an outspoken anticommunist.\n\nHer brother was the historian Jean-Jacques Becker, and she was married to Arthur Kriegel, a brother of Maurice Kriegel-Valrimont. The Association d'études et de recherches en sciences sociales Annie Kriegel is named in her honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "1225891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225891", "title": "Antoni Czubiński", "text": "Antoni Czubiński\n\nAntoni Czubiński (22 November 1928 in Konin, Poland – 10 February 2003 in Poznań, Poland) was a Polish historian and director of the Western Institute (Instytut Zachodni) in Poznań from 1978 to 1990.\n\nHe represented leftist views, and in his works consequently defended the role of the left in preserving Polish statehood in face of both Hitler and Stalin during 20th century. After 1989 he was a moderate defender of the previous system, underlining its achievements in regards to reducing poverty and increasing Polish independence from Soviet Union. He was convinced that in time People's Republic of Poland will be seen in more neutral, and even positive light and up until his death he continued to hope that more historians will share his view. After his death in 2003 he was posthumously awarded the Order of Polonia Restituta for his contribution to Polish history.\n\n"}
{"id": "46831467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46831467", "title": "Bayyinah Bello", "text": "Bayyinah Bello\n\nBayyinah Bello (born 1948) is a Haitian historian, teacher, writer and humanitarian worker, who in her earlier career spent 15 years living and travelling in West Africa, including four years in Nigeria, as well as in Benin, Togo, and other countries in the region.\n\nNow based in Port-au-Prince, she is the founder of an organization for historical research called Fondation Marie-Claire Heureuse Félicité Bonheur Dessalines, popularly known as Fondasyon Félicité (FF), named after Marie-Claire Heureuse Félicité Bonheur Dessalines the Empress consort of Haiti and wife of revolutionary leader of Haiti Jean-Jacques Dessalines. In the aftermath of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the non-profit organization Friends of Fondation Félicité was set up to directly support FF, focusing on rebuilding the country. She is also a professor of history at the State University of Haiti.\n\nBayyinah Bello was born in Port-au-Prince. After completing her primary education in Haiti, she went at the age of 12 to join her father in Liberia. She subsequently studied in France and in the US, returning to the African continent to study in Nigeria, where she earned a master's degree in linguistics, among other qualifications. In 1969 she went back to the US, where she worked as a publicist and in the evenings taught French, and after the birth of her first child in 1970 she wrote her first story for children. She went on to have three other children, her sons being Hashim, Siddiq, Akil and her daughter Ameerah Bello. Returning to Haiti, she taught at the university and also founded a bilingual school, Citadel International School. She subsequently taught English and Arabic in Togo.\n\nIn 1999 she decided to start an organization dedicated to humanitarian, social and educational work to aid the people of Haiti. It was named Fondation Marie-Claire Heureuse Félicité Bonheur Dessalines, usually shortened to Fondation Félicité (FF), in honour of the wife of Jean-Jacques Dessalines, who was a slave first, learned to read and write, then began to teach, working for the liberation of the country, and ultimately lived to be 110 years. Soon after the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the Friends of Fondation Félicité was set up, an associated not-for-profit organization that is helping Haitian people to rebuild their own country, and raises funds for grassroots projects on the island.\n\nIn April 2014, Professor Bello was one of 10 honorees at the Gala des Femmes en Flammes that celebrated Haitian women \"whose lives and professional work have paved the way for a better Haiti\". As a leading historian, she regularly lectures and participates in international conferences, speaking on Haitian topics, including a recent keynote speech in Brooklyn, New York, at the Stanley Eugene Clark Elementary School for a Women's History Month celebration in March 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "42974923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42974923", "title": "Berit Erbe", "text": "Berit Erbe\n\nBerit Erbe (4 September 1923 – 13 May 2009) was a Danish-Norwegian actress and theatrical historian.\n\nShe was born in Oslo and died in Bergen. After her theatre education she worked at the Royal Danish Theatre in Copenhagen. She took a magister degree in theatre aesthetics and history in Copenhagen in 1959. She was hired as a lecturer at the University of Bergen in 1969, took the dr.philos. degree on a thesis about Bjørn Bjørnson in 1973, and served as a professor from 1975 to 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "11926965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11926965", "title": "Biblical Archaeology Society", "text": "Biblical Archaeology Society\n\nThe Biblical Archaeology Society is a non-denominational organization that supports and promotes biblical archaeology. It publishes \"Biblical Archaeology Review\". Its past publications included \"Bible Review\" (1985–2005) and \"Archaeology Odyssey\" (1998–2006). The Biblical Archaeology Society also publishes books about biblical archaeology aimed at a general readership. The Society has, for more than 30 years, run seminars and tours offering an opportunity to learn directly from world-renowned archaeologists and scholars. It also produces videos (DVD) and CDs on archaeology and biblical archaeology.\n\nThe society was founded by Hershel Shanks in 1975 and he served as editor for 42 years, retiring at the end of 2017. Robert R. Cargill was selected to replace Shanks as editor of the Society and associated publications.\n\nThe Biblical Archaeology Society has been at the center of several controversies. \n\nIn 1991, the Biblical Archaeology Society published \"A Facsimile Edition of the Dead Sea Scrolls\", making the Dead Sea scrolls available to scholars around the world. Previously, access to the scrolls was limited to a small team of specialists who had been invited to translate them.\n\nAt a 2002 press conference co-hosted with the Discovery Channel, the Biblical Archaeology Society announced the existence of the James Ossuary. Some critics have alleged that the ossuary, which may have once held the remains of James, the brother of Jesus, is a forgery. During the forgery trial, which lasted for several years, Shanks remained a staunch defender of the ossuary. On March 14, 2012, the defendants were acquitted of all charges of forgery because the ossuary's authenticity could not be determined.\n\n"}
{"id": "17911860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17911860", "title": "Coventry Mystery Plays", "text": "Coventry Mystery Plays\n\nThe Coventry Mystery Plays, or Coventry Corpus Christi Pageants, are a cycle of medieval mystery plays from Coventry, West Midlands, England, and are perhaps best known as the source of the \"Coventry Carol\". Two plays from the original cycle are extant having been copied from the now lost original manuscript in the early 19th century. A separate \"Ludus Coventriae\" once thought to belong to the Coventry cycle of Mystery Plays is now believed to have originated in East Anglia.\n\nPerformances of the Coventry Plays are first recorded in a document of 1392–3, and continued for nearly two centuries; the young Shakespeare may have witnessed them before they were finally suppressed in 1579. Latterly the plays were performed in a version revised by one Robert Croo in 1534. In its fullest form the cycle comprised about ten plays, all on New Testament themes, though only two have survived to the present day. Of these two, the Shearmen and Tailors' Pageant was a nativity play portraying events from the Annunciation to the Massacre of the Innocents, and the Weavers' Pageant dealt with the Purification and the Doctors in the Temple.\n\nThe only ancient manuscript of the Shearmen and Tailors' Pageant was destroyed by fire in 1879; but it had previously been transcribed and published by Thomas Sharp.\n\n"}
{"id": "47671202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47671202", "title": "Cyber threat intelligence", "text": "Cyber threat intelligence\n\nAccording to CERT-UK cyber threat intelligence (CTI) is an \"elusive\" concept. While cybersecurity comprises the recruitment of IT security experts, and the deployment of technical means, to protect an organization's critical infrastructure or intellectual property, CTI is based on the collection of intelligence using open source intelligence (OSINT), social media intelligence (SOCMINT), human Intelligence (HUMINT), technical intelligence or intelligence from the deep and dark web. CTI's key mission is to research and analyze trends and technical developments in three areas:\n\n\nThose accumulated data based on research and analysis enable states to come up with preventive measures in advance. Considering the severe impacts of cyber threats, CTI has been raised as an efficient solution to maintain international security.\n\nThe UK's National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) distinguishes four types of threat intelligence:\n\n\nIn the financial sector, the CBEST framework of the Bank of England assumes that penetration testing is no longer adequate to protect sensitive business sectors, such as the banking sector. In response, the UK Financial Authorities (Bank of England, Her Majesty's Treasury, and the Financial Conduct Authority) recommend several steps to guard financial institutions from cyber threats, including receiving \"advice from the cyber threat intelligence providers operating within the UK Government\".\n\n\nthere are also challenges that cyber threat intelligence research is facing, including some controversies on the value of threat intelligence and whether it really works. Different experts have voiced their concerns on whether TI is really effective in its current state \n\nDo Threat Intelligence Exchanges Really Work?\n\nIs Threat Intelligence Garbage?\n\n5 Reasons Why Threat Intelligence Doesn't Work\n\nBehind any cyber threat, there are people using computers, software and networks. During or after a cyber attack technical information about the network and computers between the attacker and the victim can be collected. However, identifying the person(s) behind an attack, their motivations, or the ultimate sponsor of the attack, is difficult. Recent efforts in threat intelligence emphasize understanding adversary TTPs.\n\n\nInfluential geopolitical countries, such as the US, Russia, China and Iran, use cyberspace as an extension of their foreign and intelligence collection policies. To achieve these objectives, they have formed APT units that primarily specialise in the following fields:\n\n\nA combination of CTI with political risk analysis, which includes a deep understanding of current geopolitical disputes and leadership ulterior political motives, can help analysts understand future cyberwarfare patterns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45507686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45507686", "title": "D. G. Boyce", "text": "D. G. Boyce\n\nDavid George Boyce (\"b\". 1942), also known as George Boyce, is a Northern Irish historian who specialises in Irish history.\n\nHe was educated at Lurgan College in Armagh and at Queen's University Belfast. He worked in the Department of Manuscripts at the Bodleian Library in Oxford until 1971. From 1971 until 2004 he was a lecturer in the Department of Politics and International relations at Swansea University. He is also a fellow of the Royal Historical Society.\n\nHe has contributed 15 articles to the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography.\n\n"}
{"id": "10253465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10253465", "title": "Dilara Aliyeva", "text": "Dilara Aliyeva\n\nDilyara Alakbar qizi Aliyeva () (14 December 1929 in Tbilisi – 19 April 1991 in Qakh), Ph. D., was an Azerbaijani philologist, translator and Women's rights activist and Member of Supreme Council of Azerbaijan in 1990–1991.\n\nDilyara Aliyeva was born to a family of a blacksmith in Tbilisi, Georgia\n\nShe received secondary education in the local Azeri-language school. She studied Oriental studies at Baku State University. After receiving her B.A., she was admitted to a graduate program at the Nizami Institute of Language and Literature of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan from where she switched to the Rustaveli Institute of Literature of the Georgian Academy of Sciences.\n\nShe later worked at various positions in the Nizami Institute studying the literary heritage of the Medieval poet Nizami and historical interactions and comparison between Azeri and Georgian literatures. In 1988 she received her Ph.D. in philology and joined the Azerbaijan Popular Front, where she soon became one of its executives.\n\nDilara Aliyeva founded the Azerbaijan Association for the Protection of Women’s Rights. She died on 19 April 1991 in a car crash and was buried in Baku. A street in Baku and the association founded by Dilyara Aliyeva were named after her.\n\n"}
{"id": "12135377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12135377", "title": "Enkyū", "text": "Enkyū\n\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "42075247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42075247", "title": "Franciszek Bujak", "text": "Franciszek Bujak\n\nFranciszek Bujak (16 August 1875, Maszkienice near Brzesko – 21 March 1953, Kraków) was a Polish academic and historian of economic, political and social history of Poland. He served as professor of the Jagiellonian University twice, in 1909–1918 (before the re-emergence of the sovereign Poland) and after World War II in 1946–1952. In the interwar Poland, Bujak was a professor of the Warsaw University in 1919–1921, and the John Casimir University in Lwów in 1921–1941 (until the outbreak of Operation Barbarossa). He was a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences since 1952, and president of the Polish Historical Society twice in 1932–1933 and 1936–1937. He was active politically in PSL \"Piast\" and Stronnictwo Ludowe, briefly serving as minister of agriculture under Władysław Grabski.\n\nBujak was the founder of an original research school of Poland's rural economic history. He published a series of scientific monographs called \"Badania Dziejów Społecznych i Gospodarczych\" (1931–1950), and founded the academic journal \"Roczniki Dziejów Społecznych i Gospodarczych\". He is the author of numerous dissertations including \"Studia nad osadnictwem Małopolski\" (1905), and \"Wieś zachodniogalicyjska u schyłku XIX w\", as well as his first groundbreaking analysis of economic situation of a village during the Partitions of Poland called \"Żmiąca wieś powiatu limanowskiego. Stosunki gospodarcze i społeczne (1903).\"\n"}
{"id": "31256309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256309", "title": "Hawa Abdi", "text": "Hawa Abdi\n\nHawa Abdi Dhiblawe (, , born May 17, 1947) is a Somali human rights activist and physician. She is the founder and chairperson of the Dr. Hawa Abdi Foundation (DHAF), a non-profit organization.\n\nAbdi was born in Mogadishu, situated in south-central Somalia. Her mother died when she was 12 years old. Abdi thereafter took on family chores, including raising her four sisters, as the eldest child in the family. Her father was an educated professional.\n\nFor her early schooling, Abdi attended local elementary, intermediate and secondary academies.\n\nIn 1964, she received a scholarship from the Women's Committee of the Soviet Union. Abdi subsequently studied medicine at a Kiev institution, graduating in 1971. The following year, she began law studies at Mogadishu's Somali National University.\n\nIn 1973, Abdi got married and gave birth to her first child two years later. She would practice medicine during the morning and work toward her law degree in her spare time, eventually earning it in 1979.\n\nIn 1983, Abdi opened the Rural Health Development Organisation (RHDO) on family-owned land in the southern Lower Shebelle region. It began as a one-room clinic offering free obstetrician services to around 24 rural women per day, and later evolved into a 400-bed hospital.\n\nWhen the civil war broke out in Somalia during the early 1990s, Abdi stayed behind at the behest of her grandmother, who had advised her to use her qualifications to assist the vulnerable. She subsequently established a new clinic and school for the displaced and orphans.\n\nThe RHDO was renamed the Dr. Hawa Abdi Foundation (DHAF) in 2007. It gradually expanded to include a relief camp, which during the 2011 drought housed 90,000 people on the 1,300 acres surrounding Abdi's hospital.\n\nTwo years prior, at the height of the Islamist insurgency in southern Somalia, militants had laid siege to the compound and attempted to force Abdi to shut it down. She stood her ground and the rebels left within a week, following pressure from local residents, the UN and other advocacy groups. The militants again stormed the area in February 2012, leading Abdi to temporarily suspend services until their eventual departure.\n\nThe Dr. Hawa Abdi Foundation (DHAF) is run by Abdi and her two physician daughters, CEO Deqo Adan (also known as Deqo Mohamed) and assistant Adan (also known as Amina Mohamed), who followed in their mother's footsteps as ob/gyn specialists. As of 2012, the organization has a multinational staff of 102 workers, augmented by a 150-member team comprising volunteers, fishermen and farmers.\n\nDHAF is a non-political organization that is not affiliated with any government, political movement, religion or clan. DHAF decides what projects to undertake and what relief to provide based on the ground needs of the village.DHAF is also a financially independent organization. All of the funding is provided through donations from the people around the world and other charitable endowments. Government funding is prohibited.\nSince 1991, DHAF has provided services to Somalis who are independent of their clan. Services are provided to the people of Somalia at no cost.\n\nThe DHAF compound includes a hospital, school and nutritional center, and provides shelter, water and medical care to mostly women and children. Since its establishment in the early 1980s, the complex has served an estimated 2 million people.\n\nAlthough services are offered at no charge, Abdi operates several fishing and agricultural projects within the compound to inculcate self-sustenance. The hospital also contains a small plot of land, where vegetables and maize are grown and later in part sold to cover some of the facility's maintenance costs.\n\nFunding for the compound's equipment and medical supplies is mainly secured through remittances from Somali expatriates as well as general contributions to the DHAF. Since 2011, the organization has also received support from the Women in the World Foundation.\n\nIn 2014, Abdi received the Roosevelt Four Freedoms Award: Freedom from Want in Middelburg, the Netherlands.\n\nIn 2007, Abdi was named \"Hiiraan Online\"'s Person of the Year. \"Glamour\" magazine later named her and her two daughters among its 2010 \"Women of the Year\".\n\nIn 2012, Abdi was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. She also received the Women of Impact Award from the WITW Foundation, BET's Social Humanitarian Award, and the John Jay Medal for Justice.\n\nOn May 25, 2017, Abdi received the honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Harvard University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "757913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757913", "title": "Heinrich Friedrich Otto Abel", "text": "Heinrich Friedrich Otto Abel\n\nHeinrich Friedrich Otto Abel (22 January 1824 – 28 October 1854) was a German historian.\n\nHe was born at Reichenbach Priory in the Kingdom of Württemberg, a Protestant religious house, where his father was a clergyman. Beginning in 1824, Abel visited the universities of Tübingen, Jena, Heidelberg, Bonn and Berlin, studying history. Among his teachers was Friedrich Christoph Dahlmann.\n\nAbel also showed political interest in the revolutions of 1848, and published a tract \"Das neue deutsche Reich und sein Kaiser\" in which he enthused about the Kingdom of Prussia. As a result, the Prussian minister of external affairs, Heinrich von Arnim, offered him a place in the Prussian embassy in Frankfurt. However, his high expectations were disappointed many times over. He quit the diplomatic service in 1850 and in the ensuing period devoted his energies to the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\".\n\nIn 1851, Abel inaugurated his formal academic career with his appointment as a lecturer (\"Privatdozent\") at the University of Bonn. The best known of his scholars was Heinrich von Treitschke. While travelling in 1853, Abel was affected by pulmonary phthisis and died in 1854 in the care of his uncle in Leonberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41856558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41856558", "title": "Incomplete Nature", "text": "Incomplete Nature\n\nIncomplete Nature: How Mind Emerged from Matter is a 2011 book by biological anthropologist Terrence Deacon. The book covers topics in biosemiotics, philosophy of mind, and the origins of life. Broadly, the book seeks to naturalistically explain \"aboutness\", that is, concepts like intentionality, meaning, normativity, purpose, and function; which Deacon groups together and labels as ententional phenomena.\n\nDeacon's first book, \"The Symbolic Species\" focused on the evolution of human language. In that book, Deacon notes that much of the mystery surrounding language origins comes from a profound confusion on the nature of semiotic processes themselves. Accordingly, the focus of \"Incomplete Nature\" shifts from human origins to the origin of life and semiosis. \"Incomplete Nature\" can be viewed as a sizable contribution to the growing body of work positing that the problem of consciousness and the problem of the origin of life are inexorably linked. Deacon tackles these two linked problems by going back to basics. The book expands upon the classical conceptions of work and information in order to give an account of ententionality that is consistent with eliminative materialism and yet does not seek to explain away or pass off as epiphenominal the non-physical properties of life.\n\nA central thesis of the book is that absence can still be efficacious. Deacon makes the claim that just as the concept of zero revolutionized mathematics, thinking about life, mind, and other ententional phenomena in terms of constraints (i.e., what is absent) can similarly help us overcome the artificial dichotomy of the mind body problem. A good example of this concept is the hole that defines the hub of a wagon wheel. The hole itself is not a physical thing, but rather a source of constraint that helps to restrict the conformational possibilities of the wheel's components, such that, on a global scale, the property of rolling emerges. Constraints which produce emergent phenomena may not be a process which can be understood by looking at the make-up of the constituents of a pattern. Emergent phenomena are difficult to study because their complexity does not necessarily decompose into parts. When a pattern is broken down, the constraints are no longer at work; there is no hole, no absence to notice. Imagine a hub, a hole for an axle, produced only when the wheel is rolling, thus breaking the wheel may not show you how the hub emerges.\n\nDeacon notes that the apparent patterns of causality exhibited by living systems seem to be in some ways the inverse of the causal patterns of non-living systems. In an attempt to find a solution to the philosophical problems associated with teleological explanations, Deacon returns to Aristotle's four causes and attempts to modernize them with thermodynamic concepts.\n\nOrthograde changes are caused internally. They are spontaneous changes. That is, orthograde changes are generated by the spontaneous elimination of asymmetries in a thermodynamic system in disequilibrium. Because orthograde changes are driven by the internal geometry of a changing system, orthograde causes can be seen as analogous to Aristotle's formal cause. More loosely, Aristotle's final cause can also be considered orthograde, because goal oriented actions are caused from within.\n\nContragrade changes are imposed from the outside. They are non-spontaneous changes. Contragrade change is induced when one thermodynamic system interacts with the orthograde changes of another thermodynamic system. The interaction drives the first system into a higher energy, more asymmetrical state. Contragrade changes do work. Because contragrade changes are driven by external interactions with another changing system, contragrade causes can be seen as analogous to Aristotle's efficient cause.\n\nMuch of the book is devoted to expanding upon the ideas of classical thermodynamics, with an extended discussion about how consistently far from equilibrium systems can interact and combine to produce novel emergent properties. \nDeacon defines three hierarchically nested levels of thermodynamic systems: Homeodynamic systems combine to produce morphodynamic systems which combine to produce teleodynamic systems. Teleodynamic systems can be further combined to produce higher orders of self organization.\n\nHomeodynamic systems are essentially equivalent to classical thermodynamic systems like a gas under pressure or solute in solution, but the term serves to emphasize that homeodynamics is an abstract process that can be realized in forms beyond the scope of classic thermodynamics. For example, the diffuse brain activity normally associated with emotional states can be considered to be a homeodynamic system because there is a general state of equilibrium which its components (neural activity) distribute towards. In general, a homeodynamic system is any collection of components that will spontaneously eliminate constraints by rearranging the parts until a maximum entropy state (disorderliness) is achieved.\n\nA morphodynamic system consists of a coupling of two homeodynamic systems such that the constraint dissipation of each complements the other, producing macroscopic order out of microscopic interactions. Morphodynamic systems require constant perturbation to maintain their structure, so they are relatively rare in nature. The paradigm example of a morphodynamic system is a Rayleigh–Bénard cell. Other common examples are snowflake formation, whirlpools and the stimulated emission of laser light.\nMaximum entropy production: The organized structure of a morphodynamic system forms to facilitate maximal entropy production. In the case of a Rayleigh–Bénard cell, heat at the base of the liquid produces an uneven distribution of high energy molecules which will tend to diffuse towards the surface. As the temperature of the heat source increases, density effects come into play. Simple diffusion can no longer dissipate energy as fast as it is added and so the bottom of the liquid becomes hot and more buoyant than the cooler, denser liquid at the top. The bottom of the liquid begins to rise, and the top begins to sink - producing convection currents.\n\nTwo systems: The significant heat differential on the liquid produces two homeodynamic systems. The first is a diffusion system, where high energy molecules on the bottom collide with lower energy molecules on the top until the added kinetic energy from the heat source is evenly distributed. The second is a convection system, where the low density fluid on the bottom mixes with the high density fluid on the top until the density becomes evenly distributed. The second system arises when there is too much energy to be effectively dissipated by the first, and once both systems are in place, they will begin to interact.\n\nSelf organization: The convection creates currents in the fluid that disrupt the pattern of heat diffusion from bottom to top. Heat begins to diffuse into the denser areas of current, irrespective of the vertical location of these denser portions of fluid. The areas of the fluid where diffusion is occurring most rapidly will be the most viscous because molecules are rubbing against each other in opposite directions. The convection currents will shun these areas in favor of parts of the fluid where they can flow more easily. And so the fluid spontaneously segregates itself into cells where high energy, low density fluid flows up from the center of the cell and cooler, denser fluid flows down along the edges, with diffusion effects dominating in the area between the center and the edge of each cell.\n\nSynergy and constraint: What is notable about morphodynamic processes is that order spontaneously emerges explicitly because the ordered system that results is more efficient at increasing entropy than a chaotic one. In the case of the Rayleigh–Bénard cell, neither diffusion nor convection on their own will produce as much entropy as both effects coupled together. When both effects are brought into interaction, they constrain each other into a particular geometric form because that form facilitates minimal interference between the two processes. The orderly hexagonal form is stable as long as the energy differential persists, and yet the orderly form more effectively degrades the energy differential than any other form. This is why morphodynamic processes in nature are usually so short lived. They are self organizing, but also self undermining.\n\nA teleodynamic system consists of coupling two morphodynamic systems such that the self undermining quality of each is constrained by the other. Each system prevents the other from dissipating all of the energy available, and so long term organizational stability is obtained. Deacon claims that we should pinpoint the moment when two morphodynamic systems reciprocally constrain each other as the point when ententional qualities like function, purpose and normativity emerge.\n\nDeacon explores the properties of teleodynamic systems by describing a chemically plausible model system called an autogen. Deacon emphasizes that the specific autogen he describes is not a proposed description of the first life form, but rather a description of the kinds of thermodynamic synergies that the first living creature likely possessed.\n\nReciprocal catalysis: An autogen consists of two self catalyzing cyclical morphodynamic chemical reactions, similar to a chemoton. In one reaction, organic molecules react in a looped series, the products of one reaction becoming the reactants for the next. This looped reaction is self amplifying, producing more and more reactants until all the substrate is consumed. A side product of this reciprocally catalytic loop is a lipid that can be used as a reactant in a second reaction. This second reaction creates a boundary (either a microtubule or some other closed capsid like structure), that serves to contain the first reaction. The boundary limits diffusion; it keeps all of the necessary catalysts in close proximity to each other. In addition, the boundary prevents the first reaction from completely consuming all of the available substrate in the environment.\n\nThe first self: Unlike an isolated morphodynamic process whose organization rapidly eliminates the energy gradient necessary to maintain its structure, a teleodynamic process is self-limiting and self preserving. The two reactions complement each other, and ensure that neither ever runs to equilibrium - that is completion, cessation, and death. So, in a teleodynamic system there will be structures that embody a preliminary sketch of a biological function. The internal reaction network functions to create the substrates for the boundary reaction, and the boundary reaction functions to protect and constrain the internal reaction network. Either process in isolation would be abiotic but together they create a system with a normative status dependent on the functioning of its component parts.\n\nAs with other concepts in the book, in his discussion of work Deacon seeks to generalize the Newtonian conception of work such that the term can be used to describe and differentiate mental phenomena - to describe \"that which makes daydreaming effortless but metabolically equivalent problem solving difficult.\" Work is generally described as \"activity that is necessary to overcome resistance to change. Resistance can be either active or passive, and so work can be directed towards enacting change that wouldn't otherwise occur or preventing change that would happen in its absence.\" Using the terminology developed earlier in the book, work can be considered to be \"the organization of differences between orthograde processes such that a locus of contragrade process is created. Or, more simply, work is a spontaneous change inducing a non-spontaneous change to occur.\"\n\nA thermodynamic systems capacity to do work depends less upon the total energy of the system and more upon the geometric distribution of its components. A glass of water at 20 degrees Celsius will have the same amount of energy as a glass divided in half with the top fluid at 30 degrees and the bottom at 10, but only in the second glass will the top half have the capacity to do work upon the bottom. This is because work occurs at both macroscopic and microscopic levels. Microscopically, there is constant work being performed on one molecule by another when they collide. But the potential for this microscopic work to additively sum to macroscopic work depends on there being an asymmetric distribution of particle speeds, so that the average collision pushes in a focused direction. Microscopic work is necessary but not sufficient for macroscopic work. A global property of asymmetric distribution is also required.\n\nBy recognizing that asymmetry is a general property of work - that work is done as asymmetric systems spontaneously tend towards symmetry, Deacon abstracts the concept of work and applies it to systems whose symmetries are vastly more complex than those covered by classical thermodynamics. In a morphodynamic system, the tendency towards symmetry produces not global equilibrium, but a complex geometric form like a hexagonal Benard cell or the resonant frequency of a flute. This tendency towards convolutedly symmetric forms can be harnessed to do work on other morphodynamic systems, if the systems are properly coupled.\n\nResonance example: A good example of morphodynamic work is the induced resonance that can be observed by singing or playing a flute next to a string instrument like a harp or guitar. The vibrating air emitted from the flute will interact with the taut strings. If any of the strings are tuned to a resonant frequency that matches the note being played, they too will begin to vibrate and emit sound.\n\nContragrade change: When energy is added to the flute by blowing air into it, there is a spontaneous (orthograde) tendency for the system to dissipate the added energy by inducing the air within the flute to vibrate at a specific frequency. This orthograde morphodynamic form generation can be used to induce contragrade change in the system coupled to it - the taught string. Playing the flute does work on the string by causing it to enter a high energy state that could not be reached spontaneously in an uncoupled state.\n\nStructure and form: Importantly, this is not just the macro scale propagation of random micro vibrations from one system to another. The global geometric structure of the system is essential. The total energy transferred from the flute to the string matters far less than the patterns it takes in transit. That is, the amplitude of the coupled note is irrelevant, what matters is its frequency. Notes that have a higher or lower frequency than the resonant frequency of the string will not be able to do morphodynamic work.\n\nWork is generally defined to be the interaction of two orthograde changing systems such that contragrade change is produced. In teleodynamic systems, the spontaneous orthograde tendency is not to equilibriate (as in homeodynamic systems), nor to self simplify (as in morphodynamic systems) but rather to tend towards self-preservation. Living organisms spontaneously tend to heal, to reproduce and to pursue resources towards these ends. Teleodynamic work acts on these tendencies and pushes them in a contragrade, non-spontaneous direction. \nEvolution as work: Natural selection, or perhaps more accurately, adaptation, can be considered to be a ubiquitous form of teleodynamic work. The othograde self-preservation and reproduction tendencies of individual organisms tends to undermine those same tendencies in conspecifics. This competition produces a constraint that tends to mold organisms into forms that are more adapted to their environments – forms that would otherwise not spontaneously persist.\n\nFor example, in a population of New Zealand wrybill who make a living by searching for grubs under rocks, those that have a bent beak gain access to more calories. Those with bent beaks are able to better provide for their young, and at the same time they remove a disproportionate quantity of grubs from their environment, making it more difficult for those with straight beaks to provide for their own young. Throughout their lives, all the wrybills in the population do work to structure the form of the next generation. The increased efficiency of the bent beak causes that morphology to dominate the next generation. Thus an asymmetry of beak shape distribution is produced in the population - an asymmetry produced by teleodynamic work.\n\nThought as work: Mental problem solving can also be considered teleodynamic work. Thought forms are spontaneously generated, and task of problem solving is the task of molding those forms to fit the context of the problem at hand. Deacon makes the link between evolution as teleodynamic work and thought as teleodynamic work explicit. \"The experience of being sentient is what it feels like to \"be\" evolution.\"\n\nBy conceiving of work in this way, Deacon claims \"we can begin to discern \"a basis for a form of causal openness\" in the universe.\" While increases in complexity in no way alter the laws of physics, by juxtaposing systems together, pathways of spontaneous change can be made available that were inconceivably improbable prior to the systems coupling. The causal power of any complex living system lies not solely in the underlying quantum mechanics but also in the global arrangement of its components. A careful arrangement of parts can constrain possibilities such that phenomena that were formerly impossibly rare can become improbably common.\n\nOne of the central purposes of Incomplete Nature is to articulate a theory of biological information. The first formal theory of information was articulated by Claude Shannon in 1948 in his work A Mathematical Theory of Communication. Shannon's work is widely credited with ushering in the information age, but somewhat paradoxically, it was completely silent on questions of meaning and reference, i.e., what the information is \"about.\" As an engineer, Shannon was concerned with the challenge of reliably transmitting a message from one location to another. The meaning and content of the message was largely irrelevant. So, while Shannon information theory has been essential for the development of devices like computers, it has left open many philosophical questions regarding the nature of information. Incomplete Nature seeks to answer some of these questions.\n\nShannon's key insight was to recognize a link between entropy and information. Entropy is often defined as a measurement of disorder, or randomness, but this can be misleading. For Shannon's purposes, the entropy of a system is the number of possible states that the system has the capacity to be in. Any one of these potential states can constitute a message. For example, a typewritten page can bear as many different messages as there are different combinations of characters that can be arranged on the page. The information content of a message can only be understood against the background context of all of the messages that could have been sent, but weren't. Information is produced by a reduction of entropy in the message medium. \nShannon's information based conception of entropy should be distinguished from the more classic thermodynamic conception of entropy developed by Ludwig Boltzmann and others at the end of the nineteenth century. While Shannon entropy is static and has to do with the set of all possible messages/states that a signal bearing system might take, Boltzmann entropy has to do with the tendency of all dynamic systems to tend towards equilibrium. That is, there are many more ways for a collection of particles to be well mixed than to be segregated based on velocity, mass, or any other property. Boltzmann entropy is central to the theory of work developed earlier in the book because entropy dictates the direction in which a system will spontaneously tend.\n\nDeacon's addition to Shannon information theory is to propose a method for describing not just how a message is transmitted, but also how it is interpreted. Deacon weaves together Shannon entropy and Boltzmann entropy in order to develop a theory of interpretation based in teleodynamic work. Interpretation is inherently normative. Data becomes information when it has significance for its interpreter. Thus interpretive systems are teleodynamic - the interpretive process is designed to perpetuate itself. \"The interpretation of something as information indirectly reinforces the capacity to do this again.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "464071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464071", "title": "Indo-Pakistani War of 1971", "text": "Indo-Pakistani War of 1971\n\nThe Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 was a military confrontation between India and Pakistan that occurred during the liberation war in East Pakistan from 3 December 1971 to the fall of Dacca (Dhaka) on 16 December 1971. The war began with preemptive aerial strikes on 11 Indian air stations, which led to the commencement of hostilities with Pakistan and Indian entry into the war of independence in East Pakistan on the side of Bengali nationalist forces. Lasting just 13 days, it is one of the shortest wars in history.\n\nDuring the war, Indian and Pakistani militaries simultaneously clashed on the eastern and western fronts; the war ended after the Eastern Command of the Pakistan military signed the Instrument of Surrender on 16 December 1971 in Dhaka, marking the formation of East Pakistan as the new nation of Bangladesh. Officially, East Pakistan had earlier called for its secession from the unity of Pakistan on 26 March 1971. Approximately 90,000 to 93,000 Pakistani servicemen were taken prisoner by the Indian Army, which included 79,676 to 81,000 uniformed personnel of the Pakistan Armed Forces, including some Bengali soldiers who had remained loyal to Pakistan. The remaining 10,324 to 12,500 prisoners were civilians, either family members of the military personnel or collaborators (razakars). It is estimated that between 300,000 and 3,000,000 civilians were killed in Bangladesh. As a result of the conflict, a further eight to ten million people fled the country to seek refuge in India.\n\nDuring the 1971 Bangladesh war for independence, members of the Pakistani military and supporting Islamist militias called the Razakars raped between 200,000 and 400,000 Bangladeshi women and girls in a systematic campaign of genocidal rape.\n\nThe Indo-Pakistani conflict was sparked by the armed liberation struggle in East Pakistan between the dominant Bengalis and the multi-ethnic West Pakistanis over the right to govern and the constitution. The political tensions between East Bengal and West Pakistan had its origin in the creation of Pakistan as a result of the partition of India by the United Kingdom in 1947; the popular language movement in 1950; mass riots in East Bengal in 1964; and the mass protests in 1969. These led to the resignation of President Ayub Khan, who invited army chief General Yahya Khan to take over the central government. The geographical distance between the eastern and western wings of Pakistan was vast; East Pakistan lay over away, which greatly hampered any attempt to integrate the Bengali and the Pakistani cultures.\n\nTo overcome the Bengali domination and prevent formation of the central government in Islamabad, the controversial One Unit program established the two wings of East and West Pakistan. West Pakistanis' opposition to these efforts made it difficult to effectively govern both wings. In 1969, President Yahya Khan announced the first general elections and disestablished the status of West Pakistan as a single province in 1970, in order to restore it to its original heterogeneous status comprising four provinces, as defined at the time of establishment of Pakistan in 1947. In addition, there were also religious and racial tensions between Bengalis and the multi-ethnic West Pakistanis, as Bengalis looked different from the dominant West Pakistanis.\n\nThe general elections, held in 1970, resulted in East Pakistan's Awami League gaining 167 out of 169 seats for the East Pakistan Legislative Assembly, and a near-absolute majority in the 313-seat National Assembly, while the vote in West Pakistan was mostly won by the socialist Pakistan Peoples Party. The Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman stressed his political position by presenting his Six Points and endorsing the Bengalis' right to govern. The League's election success caused many West Pakistanis to fear that it would allow the Bengalis to draft the constitution based on the six-points and liberalism.\n\nTo resolve the crisis, the Ahsan–Yaqub Mission was formed to provide recommendations, and its findings were met with favourable reviews from the Awami League, the Pakistan Peoples Party, and the Pakistan Muslim League as well as from President Yahya Khan.\n\nHowever, the mission was not supported by the elements in the National Security Council and was subsequently vetoed. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the chairman of Pakistan Peoples Party, endorsed the veto and subsequently refused to yield the premiership of Pakistan to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. The Awami League called for general strikes in the country. President Yahya Khan postponed the inauguration of the National Assembly, causing a shattering disillusionment to the Awami League and their supporters throughout East Pakistan. In reaction, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for general strikes that eventually shutdown the government, and dissidents in the East began targeting the ethnic Bihari community, which had supported West Pakistan.\n\nIn early March 1971, approximately 300 Biharis were slaughtered in riots by Bengali mobs in Chittagong alone. The Government of Pakistan used the \"Bihari massacre\" to justify its deployment of the military in East Pakistan on 25 March, when it initiated its military crackdown. President Yahya Khan called on the military - which was overwhelmingly led by West Pakistanis - to suppress dissent in the East, after accepting the resignation of Lieutenant-General Yaqub Ali Khan, the chief of staff of the East-Pakistani military.\n\nMass arrests of dissidents began and, after several days of strikes and non-cooperation, the Pakistani military, led by Lieutenant-General Tikka Khan, cracked down on Dhaka on the night of 25 March 1971. The government outlawed the Awami League, which forced many of its members and sympathisers into refuge in Eastern India. Mujib was arrested on the night of 25/26 March 1971 at about 1:30 am (as per Radio Pakistan's news on 29 March 1971) and taken to West Pakistan. Operation Searchlight, followed by Operation Barisal, attempted to kill the intellectual elite of the east.\n\nOn 26 March 1971, Major Ziaur Rahman of Pakistan Army declared the independence of Bangladesh on behalf of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.\n\nIn April, the exiled Awami League leaders formed a government-in-exile in Baidyanathtala of Meherpur. The East Pakistan Rifles and Bengali officers in Pakistan's army, navy, and marines, defected to the rebellion after taking refuge in different parts of India. The Bangladesh Force, namely the Mukti Bahini, consisting of Niyomito Bahini (Regular Force) and Oniyomito Bahini (Guerilla Force), was formed under the retired colonel Mohammad Ataul Gani Osmani.\n\nAfter the resignations of Admiral S.M. Ahsan and Lieutenant-General Yaqub Ali Khan, the media correspondents began airing reports of the Pakistani military's widespread genocide against their Bengali citizens, particularly aimed at the minority Bengali Hindu population, which led to approximately 10 million people seeking refuge in the neighbouring states of Eastern India. The Indian government opened the East Pakistan–India border to allow the Bengali refugees to find safe shelter; the governments of West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura established refugee camps along the border. The resulting flood of impoverished East Pakistani refugees strained India's already overburdened economy.\n\nThe Indian government repeatedly appealed to the international community for assistance, but failed to elicit any response, despite the External Affairs minister Swaran Singh meeting foreign ministers of other countries. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on 27 March 1971 expressed full support of her government for the independence struggle of the people of East Pakistan, and concluded that instead of taking in millions of refugees, it was economical to go to war against Pakistan. On 28 April 1971, the Gandhi cabinet had ordered the Chief of the Army Staff General Sam Manekshaw to \"Go into East Pakistan\". Defected East Pakistan military officers and the elements of Indian Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) immediately started using the Indian refugee camps for recruitment and training of Mukti Bahini guerrillas that were to be trained against Pakistan. In 1971, a strong wave of Indian-supported Bangladeshi nationalism emerged in the East. Violence and the systematic targeted killings of unarmed multi-ethic Pakistanis living in the East started. Vehicle bombings on government secretariats became a normal narrative in news reports, and high-profile assassinations of Bengali politicians loyal to Pakistan became common in the East. According to Jussi Hanhimäki, Finnish historian of terrorism, the Bengali terrorism in the East is a somewhat \"forgotten episode of annals of terrorism.\" The Hamoodur Rahman Commission endorsed the claims of Bengali terrorism when it critically penned that the ill-treatment of families of multi-ethnic Pakistanis led to the Pakistani military soldiers reacting violently to restore the writ of the government.\n\nThe news media's mood in Pakistan had also turned increasingly jingoistic and militaristic against East Pakistan and India when the Pakistani news media reported the complexity of the situation in the East, though the reactions from Pakistan's news media pundits were mixed. By the end of September 1971, a propaganda campaign, possibly orchestrated by elements within the Government of Pakistan, resulted in stickers endorsing \"Crush India\" becoming a standard feature on the rear windows of vehicles in Rawalpindi, Islamabad and Lahore; this soon spread to the rest of West Pakistan. By October, other stickers proclaimed \"Hang the Traitor\" in an apparent reference to Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. By the first week of December, the conservative print media outlets in the country had published \"jihad\" related materials to boost the recruitment in the military.\n\nBy the end of April 1971, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had asked the Indian Army chief General Sam Manekshaw if he was ready to go to war with Pakistan. According to Manekshaw's own personal account, he refused, citing the onset of monsoon season in East Pakistan and also the fact that the army tanks were being refitted. He offered his resignation, which Gandhi declined. He then said he could guarantee victory if she would allow him to prepare for the conflict on his terms, and set a date for it; Gandhi accepted his conditions. In reality, Gandhi was well aware of the difficulties of a hasty military action, but she needed to get the military's views to satisfy her hawkish colleagues and the public opinion, which were critical of India's restraint.\n\nBy November 1971, an Indian-Pakistani war seemed inevitable. The Soviet Union reportedly warned Pakistan against the war, which they termed as \"suicidal course for Pakistan's unity.\" Despite this warning, in November 1971, thousands of people led by conservative Pakistani politicians marched in Lahore and across Pakistan, calling for Pakistan to \"Crush India\". India responded by starting a massive buildup of the Indian Army on the western borders; the army waited until December, when the drier ground in the East would have made for easier operations and the Himalayan passes would have been closed by snow, preventing any Chinese intervention. On 23 November, President Yahya Khan declared a state of emergency in all of Pakistan and told his people to prepare for war.\n\nOn the evening of 3 December, at about 5:40 pm, the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) launched surprise pre-emptive strikes on eleven airfields in north-western India, including Agra, which was from the border. At the time of this attack, the Taj Mahal had been camouflaged with a forest of twigs and leaves and draped with burlap, because its marble glowed like a white beacon in the moonlight.\n\nThese preemptive strikes, known as Operation Chengiz Khan, were inspired by the success of Israeli Operation Focus in the Arab–Israeli Six-Day War. Unlike the Israeli attack on Arab airbases in 1967, which involved a large number of Israeli planes, Pakistan flew no more than 50 planes to India.\n\nIn an address to the nation on radio that same evening, Prime Minister Gandhi held that the air strikes were a declaration of war against India and the Indian Air Force (IAF) responded with initial air strikes that very night. These expanded to massive retaliatory air strikes the next morning.\n\nThis air action marked the official start of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971; Prime Minister Gandhi ordered the immediate mobilisation of troops and launched a full-scale invasion of Pakistan. This involved Indian forces in massive coordinated air, sea and land assaults on Pakistan from all fronts. The main Indian objective on the Eastern front was to capture Dacca, and on the Western front was to prevent Pakistan from entering Indian soil. There was no Indian intention of conducting any major offensive into Pakistan to dismember it into different states.\n\nUnlike the 1965 war, the Navy NHQ staffers and commanders of the Pakistan Navy knew very well that the Navy was ill-prepared for the naval conflict with India. The Pakistan Navy was in no condition of fighting an offensive war in deep sea against the Indian Navy, and neither was it in a condition to mount serious defence against Indian Navy's seaborne encroachment.\n\nIn the western theatre of the war, the Indian Navy's Western Naval Command under Vice Admiral S.N. Kohli, successfully launched a surprise attack on Karachi port on the night of 4/5 December 1971 under the codename \"Trident\". The naval attack involving the Soviet-built Osa missile boats sank the Pakistan Navy's destroyer and minesweeper while was also badly damaged. Pakistani naval sources reported that about 720 Pakistani sailors were killed or wounded, and Pakistan lost reserve fuel and many commercial ships, thus crippling the Pakistan Navy's further involvement in the conflict. In retaliation, the Pakistan Navy submarines, , \"Mangro\", and \"Shushuk\", began their operations to seek out the major Indian warships. On 9 December 1971, \"Hangor\" sank , inflicting 194 Indian casualties, and this attack was the first submarine kill since World War II.\n\nThe sinking of INS \"Khukri\" was followed by another Indian attack on Karachi port on the night of 8/9 December 1971 under the codename \"Python\". A squadron of Indian Navy's Osa missile boats approached the Karachi port and launched a series of Soviet-acquired Styx missiles, that resulted in further destruction of reserve fuel tanks and the sinking of three Pakistani merchant ships, as well as foreign ships docked in Karachi. The Pakistan Air Force did not attack the Indian Navy ships, and confusion remained the next day when the civilian pilots of Pakistan International, acting as reconnaissance war pilots, misidentified and the air force attacked its own warship, inflicting major damages and killing several officers on board.\n\nIn the eastern theatre of the war, the Indian Eastern Naval Command, under Vice Admiral Nilakanta Krishnan, completely isolated East Pakistan by a naval blockade in the Bay of Bengal, trapping the Eastern Pakistan Navy and eight foreign merchant ships in their ports. From 4 December onwards, the aircraft carrier was deployed, and its Sea Hawk fighter-bombers attacked many coastal towns in East Pakistan, including Chittagong and Cox's Bazar. Pakistan countered the threat by sending the submarine , which sank en route under mysterious circumstances off Visakhapatnam's coast.\n\nDue to high number of defections, the Navy relied on deploying the Pakistan Marines - led by Rear Admiral Leslie Mungavin - where they had to conduct riverine operations against the Indian Army, but they too suffered major losses, mainly due to their lack of understanding of expeditionary warfare and the wet terrain of East Pakistan.\nThe damage inflicted on the Pakistan Navy stood at 7 gunboats, 1 minesweeper, 1 submarine, 2 destroyers, 3 patrol crafts belonging to the coast guard, 18 cargo, supply and communication vessels; and large-scale damage inflicted on the naval base and docks in the coastal town of Karachi. Three merchant navy ships – \"Anwar Baksh\", \"Pasni\" and \"Madhumathi\" – and ten smaller vessels were captured. Around 1900 personnel were lost, while 1413 servicemen were captured by Indian forces in Dacca. According to one Pakistani scholar, Tariq Ali, Pakistan lost half its navy in the war.\n\nAfter the sneak attack, the PAF adopted a defensive stance in response to the Indian retaliation. As the war progressed, the IAF continued to battle the PAF over conflict zones, but the number of sorties flown by the PAF decreased day–by–day. The IAF flew 4,000 sorties while the PAF offered little in retaliation, partly because of the paucity of non-Bengali technical personnel.\n\nThis lack of retaliation has also been attributed to the deliberate decision of the PAF's Air AHQ to cut its losses, as it had already incurred huge losses in the conflict in the liberation war in the East. The PAF avoided making contacts with the Indian Navy after the latter raided the port of Karachi twice, but the PAF did retaliate by bombing Okha harbour, destroying the fuel tanks used by the boats that had attacked.\n\nIn the East, No. 14 Squadron Tail Choppers under Squadron Leader PQ Mehdi, who was taken as POW, was destroyed, putting the Dhaka air defence out of commission and resulting in Indian air superiority in the East.\n\nAt the end of the war, PAF pilots made successful daring escapes from East Pakistan to neighbouring Burma; many PAF personnel had already left the East for Burma on their own before Dacca was overrun by the Indian military in December 1971.\n\nAs Indian Army tightened its grip in the East Pakistan, the Indian Air Force continued with its attacks against Pakistan as the campaign developed into a series of daylight anti-airfield, anti-radar, and close-support attacks by fighter jets, with night attacks against airfields and strategic targets by Canberras and An-12s, while Pakistan responded with similar night attacks with its B-57s and C-130s.\n\nThe PAF deployed its primary air superiority aircraft, the F-6s, mainly on defensive combat air patrol missions over their own bases, leaving the PAF unable to conduct effective offensive operations. The IAF's raids damaged one USAF and one UN aircraft in Dacca, while a RCAF DHC-4 Caribou was destroyed in Islamabad, along with the USAF's Beech U-8 owned by the US military's liaison chief Brigadier-General Chuck Yeager. Sporadic raids by the IAF continued against PAF forward air bases in Pakistan until the end of the war, and interdiction and close-support operations were maintained.\n\nOne of the most successful air raids by India into West Pakistan happened on 8 December 1971, when Indian Hunter aircraft from the Pathankot-based 20 Squadron, attacked the Pakistani base in Murid and destroyed 5 F-86 aircraft on the ground. This was confirmed by Pakistan's military historian, Air Commodore M Kaiser Tufail, in his book 'In The Ring and On Its Feet - Pakistan Air Force in the 1971 Indo-Pak War'.\n\nThe PAF played a more limited role in the operations and were reinforced by F-104s from Jordan, Mirages from an unidentified Middle Eastern ally (whose identity remains unknown), and by F-86s from Saudi Arabia. Their arrival helped camouflage the extent of PAF losses, and some Libyan F-5s were reportedly deployed to Sargodha AFB, perhaps as a potential training unit to prepare Pakistani pilots for an influx of more F-5s from Saudi Arabia. The IAF was able to conduct a wide range of missions – troop support; air combat; deep penetration strikes; para-dropping behind enemy lines; feints to draw enemy fighters away from the actual target; bombing and reconnaissance. The PAF, which was solely focused on air combat, was blown out of the subcontinent's skies within the first week of the war. Those PAF aircraft that survived took refuge at Iranian air bases or in concrete bunkers, refusing to offer a fight.\n\nIndia flew 1,978 sorties in the East and about 4,000 in Pakistan, while the PAF flew about 30 and 2,840 at the respective fronts. More than 80 percent of IAF sorties were close-support and interdiction and about 45 IAF aircraft were lost.\n\nPakistan lost 75 aircraft, not including any F-6s, Mirage IIIs, or the six Jordanian F-104s which failed to return to their donors. The imbalance in air losses was explained by the IAF's considerably higher sortie rate and its emphasis on ground-attack missions.\n\nBefore the start of the war, the Indian Army was well organised on both fronts and enjoyed significant numerical superiority over the Pakistan Army. The Indian Army's extraordinary war performance at both fronts brought up the prestige, confidence, and dignity that it had lost during the war with China in 1962.\n\nWhen the conflict started, the war immediately took a decisive turn in favour of India and their Bengali rebel allies militarily and diplomatically. On both fronts, Pakistan launched several ground offensives, but the Indian Army held its ground and initiated well-coordinated ground operations on both fronts. Major ground attacks were concentrated on the western border by the Pakistan Army, fighting together with the Pakistan Marines in the southern border, but the Indian Army was successful in penetrating into Pakistani soil. It eventually made some quick and initial gains, including the capture of around of Pakistani territory; this land gained by India in Azad Kashmir, Punjab and Sindh sectors was later ceded in the Simla Agreement of 1972, as a gesture of goodwill. Casualties inflicted to Pakistan Army's I Corps, II Corps, and Pakistan Marines' Punjab detachment were very high, and many soldiers and marines perished due to lack of operational planning and lack of coordination within the marine-army formations against Indian Army's Southern and Western Commands. By the time the war came to end, the army soldiers and marines were highly demoralised– both emotionally and psychologically– on the western front and had no will to put up a defensive fight against the approaching Indian Army soldiers.\n\nThe War Enquiry Commission later exposed the fact that for the Pakistan Army and Pakistan Marines, the arms and training of marines, soldiers and officers were needed at every level, and every level of command.\n\nOn 23 November 1971, the Indian Army conventionally penetrated to the eastern fronts and crossed East Pakistan's borders to join their Bengali nationalist allies. Contrary to the 1965 war, which had emphasised set-piece battles and slow advances, this time the strategy adopted was a swift, three-pronged assault of nine infantry divisions with attached armoured units and close air support that rapidly converged on Dacca, the capital of East Pakistan. Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora, the GOC-in-C of the Indian Army's Eastern Command, led the full Indian thrust into East Pakistan. As the Indian Eastern Command attacked the Pakistan Eastern Command, the Indian Air Force rapidly destroyed the small air contingent in East Pakistan and put the Dacca airfield out of commission. In the meantime, the Indian Navy effectively blockaded East Pakistan.\n\nThe Indian campaign's \"blitzkrieg\" techniques exploited weaknesses in the Pakistani positions and bypassed opposition; this resulted in a swift victory. Faced with insurmountable losses, the Pakistani military capitulated in less than a fortnight and psychological panic spread in the Eastern Command's military leadership. Subsequently, the Indian Army encircled Dacca and issued an ultimatum to surrender in \"30-minutes\" time window on 16 December 1971. Upon hearing the ultimatum, the East-Pakistan government collapsed when the Lt-Gen. A.A.K. Niazi (Cdr. of Eastern Command) and his deputy, V-Adm. M.S. Khan, surrendered without offering any resistance. On 16 December 1971, Pakistan ultimately called for unilateral ceasefire and surrendered its entire four-tier military to the Indian Army– hence ending the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.\n\nOn the ground, Pakistan suffered the most, with 8,000 killed and 25,000 wounded, while India only had 3,000 dead and 12,000 wounded. The loss of armoured vehicles was similarly imbalanced and this finally represented a major defeat for Pakistan.\n\nOfficially, the Instrument of Surrender of Pakistan Eastern Command stationed in East Pakistan, was signed between the Lieutenant General Jagjit Singh Aurora, the GOC-in-C of Indian Eastern Command and Lieutenant-General A.A.K. Niazi, the Commander of the Pakistan Eastern Command, at the Ramna Race Course in Dacca at 16:31Hrs IST on 16 December 1971. As the surrender was accepted silently by Lieutenant-General Aurora, the surrounding crowds on the race course started shouting anti-Pakistan slogans, and there were reports of abuses aimed at the surrendering commanders of Pakistani military.\n\nHostilities officially ended at 14:30 GMT on 17 December, after the fall of Dacca on 15 December, and India claimed large gains of territory in Pakistan (although pre-war boundaries were recognised after the war). The war confirmed the independence of Bangladesh.\n\nFollowing the surrender, the Indian Army took approximately 90,000 Pakistani servicemen and their Bengali supporters as POWs, making it the largest surrender since World War II. Initial counts recorded that approximately 79,676 war prisoners were uniformed personnel, and the overwhelming majority of the war prisoners were officers - most of them were from the Army and Navy, while relatively small numbers were from the Air Force and Marines; others in larger number were serving in the paramilitary.\n\nThe remaining prisoners were civilians who were either family members of the military personnel or collaborators (razakars). The Hamoodur Rahman Commission and the POW Investigation Commission reports instituted by Pakistan lists the Pakistani POWs as given in the table below. Apart from soldiers, it was estimated that 15,000 Bengali civilians were also made prisoners of war.\n\nThe Soviet Union sympathised with the East Pakistanis, and supported the Indian Army and Mukti Bahini's incursion against Pakistan during the war, in a broader view of recognising that the succession of East Pakistan as Independent Bangladesh would weaken the position of its rivals— the United States and China. The Soviet Union gave assurances to India that if a confrontation with the United States or China developed, it would take counter-measures. This assurance was enshrined in the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation signed in August 1971.\n\nHowever, the Indo-Soviet treaty did not mean a total commitment to every Indian position, even though the Soviet Union had accepted the Indian position during the conflict, according to author Robert Jackson. The Soviet Union continued its sympathetic gesture to Pakistan until mid-October 1971, when it stressed Pakistan to come up with a political settlement and affirmed its continuation of industrial aid to Pakistan. By November 1971, the Soviet ambassador to Pakistan Alexei Rodionov directed a secretive message (\"Rodionov message\") that ultimately warned Pakistan that \"it will be embarking on a suicidal course if it escalates tensions in the subcontinent.\n\nThe United States stood with Pakistan by supporting it morally, politically, economically and materially when U.S. President Richard Nixon and his Secretary of State Henry Kissinger refused to use rhetoric in a hopeless attempt to intervene in a large civil war. The U.S. establishment perceived to the impression that they needed Pakistan to help stop Soviet influence in South Asia in an informal alliance with India. During the Cold War, Pakistan was a close formal ally of the United States and also had close relations with the People's Republic of China, with whom Nixon had been negotiating a \"rapprochement\" and where he intended to visit in February 1972. Nixon feared that an Indian invasion of Pakistan would mean total Soviet domination of the region, and that it would seriously undermine the global position of the United States and the regional position of America's new tactical ally, China. Nixon encouraged Jordan and Iran to send military supplies to Pakistan, while also encouraging China to increase its arms supplies to Pakistan, but all supplies were very limited. The Nixon administration also ignored reports it received of the \"genocidal\" activities of the Pakistani military in East Pakistan, most notably the Blood telegram, and this prompted widespread criticism and condemnation - both by the United States Congress and in the international press.\n\nThen U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, George Bush, Sr, introduced a resolution in the UN Security Council calling for a cease-fire and the withdrawal of armed forces by India and Pakistan. However, it was vetoed by the Soviet Union, and the following days witnessed the use of great pressure on the Soviets from the Nixon-Kissinger duo to get India to withdraw, but to no avail.\n\nWhen Pakistan's defeat in the eastern sector seemed certain, Nixon deployed Task Force 74 - led by the aircraft carrier - into the Bay of Bengal. \"Enterprise\" and its escort ships arrived on station on 11 December 1971. According to a Russian documentary, the United Kingdom also deployed a carrier battle group led by the aircraft carrier to the Bay, on her final deployment.\n\nOn 6 and 13 December, the Soviet Navy dispatched two groups of cruisers and destroyers from Vladivostok; they trailed US Task Force 74 into the Indian Ocean from 18 December 1971 until 7 January 1972. The Soviets also had a nuclear submarine to help ward off the threat posed by the USS \"Enterprise\" task force in the Indian Ocean.\n\nAs the war progressed, it became apparent to the United States that India was going to invade and disintegrate Pakistan in a matter of weeks, therefore President Nixon spoke with the USSR Secretary General Leonid Brezhnev on a hotline on 10 December, where Nixon reportedly urged Brezhnev to restrain India as he quoted: \"in the strongest possible terms to restrain India with which … you [Brezhnev] have great influence and for whose actions you must share responsibility.\"\n\nAfter the war, the United States accepted the new balance of power and recognised India as a dominant player in South Asia; the US immediately engaged in strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries in the successive years. The Soviet Union, while being sympathetic to Pakistan's loss, decided to engage with Pakistan after sending an invitation through Rodionov to Z A Bhutto, who paid a state visit to the Soviet Union in 1972 to strengthen bilateral relations that continued over the years.\n\nDuring the course of the war, China harshly criticised India for its involvement in the East Pakistan crises, and accused India of having imperialistic designs in South Asia. Before the war started, Chinese leaders and officials had long been philosophically advising the Pakistan government to make peaceful political settlements with the East Pakistani leaders, as China feared that India was secretly supporting, infiltrating, and arming the Bengali rebels against the East Pakistani government. China was also critical of the Government of East Pakistan, led by its Governor Lieutenant-General Tikka Khan - which used ruthless measures to deal with the Bengali opposition - and did not endorse the Pakistani position on that issue.\n\nWhen the war started, China reproached India for its direct involvement and infiltration in East Pakistan. It disagreed with Pakistani President Yahya Khan's consideration of military options, and criticised East Pakistan Awami League politicians' ties with India. China reacted with great alarm when the prospects of Indian invasion of Pakistan and integration of Pakistan-administered Kashmir into their side of Kashmir, became imminent. US President Nixon encouraged China to mobilise its armed forces along its border with India to discourage the Indian assault, but the Chinese did not respond to this encouragement since the Indian Army's Northern Command was well prepared to guard the Line of Actual Control, and was already engaging and making advances against the Pakistan Army's X Corps in the Line of Control.\n\nChina did not welcome the break-up of Pakistan's unity by the East Pakistani politicians, and effectively vetoed the membership of Bangladesh when it applied to the United Nations in 1972. China objected to admitting Bangladesh on the grounds that two UN resolutions concerning Bangladesh, requiring the repatriation of Pakistani POWs and civilians, had not yet been implemented. Furthermore, China was also among the last countries to recognise the independence of Bangladesh, refusing to do so until 31 August 1975. To this date, its relations with Bangladesh are determined by the Pakistan factor.\n\nDuring the course of the conflict, Iran also stood with Pakistan politically and diplomatically. It was concerned with the imminent break-up of Pakistan which, it feared, would have caused the state to fractionalise into small pieces, ultimately resulting in Iran's encirclement by rivals. After the war, however, Iran began cementing ties with India based on mutual security co-operation. At the beginning of the conflict, Iran had helped Pakistan by sheltering PAF's fighter jets and providing it with free fuel to take part in the conflict, in an attempt to keep Pakistan's regional integrity united. When Pakistan called for unilateral ceasefire and the surrender was announced, the Shah of Iran hastily responded by preparing the Iranian military to come up with contingency plans to forcefully invade Pakistan and annex its Balochistan province into its side of Balochistan, by any means necessary, before anybody else did it.\n\nThe war stripped Pakistan of more than half of its population, and with nearly one-third of its army in captivity, clearly established India's military and political dominance of the subcontinent. India successfully led a diplomatic campaign to isolate Pakistan and skillfully manipulate Pakistan's supporting countries to limit the extent of support to Pakistan. In addition, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's state visit to United Kingdom and France further helped break ice with the United States, and blocked any pro-Pakistan resolution in the United Nations. There was also a meeting between Prime Minister Gandhi and President Nixon in November 1971, where she rejected the US advice against intervening in the conflict.\n\nThe victory also defined India's much broader role in foreign politics, as many countries in the world had come to realise - including the United States - that the balance of power had shifted to India as a major player in the region. In the wake of changing geopolitical realities, India sought to establish closer relations with regional countries such as Iran, which was a traditional ally of Pakistan. The United States itself accepted a new balance of power, and when India conducted a surprise nuclear test in 1974, the US notified India that it had no \"interest in actions designed to achieve new balance of power.\"\n\nIn spite of the magnitude of the victory, India was surprisingly restrained in its reaction. Mostly, Indian leaders seemed pleased by the relative ease with which they had accomplished their goals—the establishment of Bangladesh and the prospect of an early return to their homeland of the 10 million Bengali refugees who were the cause of the war. In announcing the Pakistani surrender, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi declared in the Indian Parliament:\n\nFor Pakistan, the war was a complete and humiliating defeat, a psychological setback that came from a defeat at the hands of rival India. Pakistan lost half its population and a significant portion of its economy, and suffered setbacks to its geopolitical role in South Asia. In the post-war era, Pakistan struggled to absorb the lessons learned from the military interventions in the democratic system and the impact of the Pakistani military's failure was grave and long-lasting.\n\nFrom the geopolitical point of view, the war ended in the breaking-up of the unity of Pakistan from being the largest Muslim country in the world to its politico-economic and military collapse that resulted from a direct foreign intervention in 1971. The Pakistani policy-making institutions further feared that the historicity of the Two-nation theory had been disproved by the war, that Muslim nationalism had proved insufficient to keep Bengalis a part of Pakistan.\n\nThe Pakistani people were not mentally prepared to accept the magnitude of this kind of defeat, as the state electronic media had been projecting imaginary victories; however, the privately-owned electronic news media coverage in East Pakistan had reported the complexity of the situation. When the ceasefire that came from the surrender of East Pakistan was finally announced, the people could not come to terms with the magnitude of defeat; spontaneous demonstrations and massive protests erupted on the streets of major metropolitan cities in Pakistan. According to Pakistani historians, the trauma was extremely severe, and the cost of the war for Pakistan in monetary terms and in human resources was very high. Demoralized and finding unable to control the situation, the Yahya administration fell when President Yahya Khan turned over his presidency to Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, who was sworn in on 20 December 1971 as President with the control of the military.\n\nThe loss of East Pakistan shattered the prestige of the Pakistani military. Pakistan lost half its navy, a quarter of its air force, and a third of its army. The war also exposed the shortcomings of Pakistan's declared strategic doctrine that the \"defence of East Pakistan lay in West Pakistan\". Hussain Haqqani, in his book \"Pakistan: Between Mosque and Military\" notes,\n\nIn his book \"The 1971 Indo-Pak War: A Soldier's Narrative\", Pakistan Army's Major General Hakeem Arshad Qureshi, a veteran of this conflict, noted:\nThe Indian Army Chief in 1971, Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw, had the highest respect for the fighting capability of the Pakistan Army, and he did not accept the theory that they did not fight the war with enough vigour and zeal. In a BBC interview, he said:\nThe Pakistan Army in East Pakistan fought very gallantly. But they had no chance. They were a thousand miles away from their base. I had eight or nine months to make my preparations. I had got a superiority of almost 15 to 1...\n\nHowever, independent defence sources stated that the Indian superiority was less than 2 to 1. The United States Air Force's Brigadier-General Chuck Yeager, the World War II veteran and US flying ace who witnessed the war in 1971, is of the view that Pakistan did not lose the war, as India did not annex it.\n\nAfter the war, the Pakistan Army's generals in the East held each other responsible for the atrocities committed, but most of the burden was laid on Lieutenant-General Tikka Khan, who earned notoriety from his actions as governor of the East; he was called the \"Butcher of Bengal\" because of the widespread atrocities committed within the areas of his responsibility. Unlike his contemporary Yaqub who was a pacifist and knew well of the limits of force, Tikka was a \"soldier known for his eager use of force\" to settle his differences.\n\nConfessing at the hearings of the War Enquiry Commission, Lieutenant-General A.A.K. Niazi reportedly commented on Tikka's actions and noted: \"On the night between 25/26 March 1971, [General] Tikka struck. Peaceful night was turned into a time of wailing, crying and burning. [General] Tikka let loose everything at his disposal as if raiding an enemy, not dealing with his own misguided and misled people. The military action was a display of stark cruelty more merciless than the massacres at Bukhara and Baghdad by Chengiz Khan and Halaku Khan... [General] Tikka... resorted to the killing of civilians and a scorched earth policy. His orders to his troops were: \"I want the land, not the people...\".\" Major-General Rao Farman reportedly had written in his table diary: \"Green land of East Pakistan will be painted red. It was painted red by Bengali blood.\" However, Farman forcefully denied writing that comment, and laid all responsibility on Tikka, while testifying at the War Enquiry Commission in 1974.\n\nMajor reforms were carried out by successive governments in Pakistan after the war in the light of many insightful recommendations made in the Hamoodur Rahman Commission's Report. To address the economic disparity, the NFC system was established to equally distribute the taxation revenue among the four provinces, the large-scale nationalization of industries and nationwide census were carried out in 1972. The Constitution was promulgated in 1973 that reflected this equal balance and a compromise between Islamism and Humanism, and provided guaranteed equal human rights to all. The military was heavily reconstructed and heavily reorganised, with President Bhutto appointing chiefs of staff in each inter-service, contrary to C-in-Cs, and making instruction on human rights compulsory in the military syllabus in each branch of inter-services. Major investments were directed towards modernising the navy. The military's chain of command was centralized in JS HQ led by an appointed Chairman joint chiefs committee to coordinate the combined and well-integrated military efforts to safeguard the nation's defence and unity. In addition, Pakistan sought to have a diversified foreign policy, as Pakistani geostrategists had been shocked that both China and the United States provided limited support to Pakistan during the course of the war, with the US displaying an inability to supply weapons that Pakistan needed the most.\n\nOn January 20, 1972, Pakistan under Bhutto launched the clandestine development of nuclear weapons in a view of \"never to allow another foreign invasion of Pakistan.\" This crash program reached parity in 1977 when the first weapon design was successfully achieved.\n\nAs a result of the war, East Pakistan disintegrated and became an independent country, Bangladesh, as the world's fourth most populous Muslim state on 16 December 1971. Pakistan itself secured the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman from the Headquarter Prison and allowed him to return to Dacca. On 19 January 1972, Mujib was inaugurated as the first President of Bangladesh, later becoming the Prime Minister of Bangladesh in 1974.\n\nOn the brink of defeat in around 14 December 1971, the media reports indicated that the Pakistan Army soldiers, the local East Pakistan Police they controlled, \"razakars\" and the \"Shanti Committee\" carried out systematic killings of professionals such as physicians, teachers, and other intellectuals, as part of a pogrom against the Bengali Hindu minorities who constituted the majority of urban educated intellectuals.\n\nYoung men, especially students, who were seen as possible rebels and recruiters were also targeted by the stationed military, but the extent of casualties in East Pakistan is not known, and the issue is itself controversial and contradictory among the authors who wrote books on the pogrom; the Pakistani government itself denied the charges of its involvement in 2015. R.J. Rummel cites estimates ranging from one to three million people killed. Other estimates place the death toll lower, at 300,000. Bangladesh government figures state that Pakistani forces aided by collaborators killed three million people, raped 200,000 women and displaced millions of others.\n\nAccording to the authors Kenton Worcester, Sally Bermanzohn, and Mark Ungar, Bengalis themselves killed about 150,000 non-Bengalis living in the East There had been reports of Bengali insurgents indiscriminately killing non-Bengalis throughout the East; however, neither side provided substantial proofs for their claims and both Bangladeshi and Pakistani figures contradict each other over this issue. Bihari representatives in June 1971 claimed a higher figure of 500,000 killed by Bengalis.\n\nIn 2010, the Awami League's government decided to set up a tribunal to prosecute the people involved in alleged war crimes and those who collaborated with Pakistan. According to the government, the defendants would be charged with crimes against humanity, genocide, murder, rape and arson.\n\nAccording to John H. Gill, there was widespread polarisation between pro-Pakistan Bengalis and pro-liberation Bengalis during the war, and those internal battles are still playing out in the domestic politics of modern-day Bangladesh. To this day, the issue of committed atrocities and pogroms is an influential factor in the foreign relations between Pakistan and Bangladesh.\n\nIn the aftermath of the war, the Pakistani Government constituted the War Enquiry Commission, to be headed by Chief Justice Hamoodur Rahman, who was an ethnic Bengali, and composed of the senior justices of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. The War Enquiry Commission was mandated with carrying out thorough investigations into the intelligence, strategic, political and military failures that causes the defeat in the war.\n\nThe War Commission also looked into Pakistan's political and military involvement in the history of East Pakistan that encompasses 1947–71. The First War Report was submitted in July 1972, but it was very critically opined and penned on political misconducts of politicians and the military interference in national politics. Written in moral and philosophical perspective, the First Report was lengthy and provided accounts that were unpalatable to be released to the public. Initially, there were 12 copies that were all destroyed, except for the one that was kept and marked as \"Top Secret\" to prevent the backlash effects on the demoralised military. In 1976, the Supplementary Report was submitted, which was the comprehensive report compiled together with the First Report; this report was also marked as classified.\n\nIn 2000, the excerpts of the Supplementary Report were leaked to a political correspondent of Pakistan's \"Dawn\", which the \"Dawn\" published together with \"India Today\". The First Report is still marked as classified, while the Supplementary Report's excerpts were suppressed by the news correspondents. The War Report's supplementary section was published by the Pakistan Government, but it did not officially hand over the report to Bangladesh despite its requests.)\n\nThe War Report exposed many military failures, from the strategic to the tactical–intelligence levels, while it confirmed the looting, rapes and the unnecessary killings by the Pakistan military and their local agents. It laid the blame squarely on Pakistan Army generals, accusing them of debauchery, smuggling, war crimes and neglect of duty. The War Commission had recommended public trial of Pakistan Army generals on the charges that they had been responsible for the situation in the first place and that they had succumbed without a fight, but no actions were ever taken against those responsible, except the dismissal of chiefs of the Pakistan Army, Pakistan Air Force, Pakistan Navy, and decommissioning of the Pakistan Marines.\n\nThe War Commission, however, rejected the charge that 200,000 Bengali girls were raped by the Pakistan Army, remarking, “It is clear that the figures mentioned by the Dacca authorities are altogether fantastic and fanciful,\" and cited the evidence of a British abortion team that had carried out the termination of \"only a hundred or more pregnancies\". The Commission also claimed that \"approximately 26,000 persons (were) killed during the action by the Pakistan military\"\nBina D'Costa states that the War Commission was aware of the military's brutality in East Pakistan, but \"chose to downplay the scale of the atrocities committed.\"\n\nThe second commission was known as Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 Prisoners of War Investigation, conducted solely by the Pakistani government, that was to determine the numbers of Pakistani military personnel who surrendered, including the number of civilian POWs. The official number of the surrendered military personnel was soon released by the Government of Pakistan after the war was over.\n\nOn 2 July 1972, the Indo-Pakistani summit was held in Simla, Himachal Pradesh, India where the Simla Agreement was reached and signed between President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The treaty provided insurance to Bangladesh that Pakistan recognised Bangladesh's sovereignty, in exchange for the return of the Pakistani POWs. In mere five months, India systematically released more than 90,000 war prisoners, with Lieutenant-General A.A.K. Niazi being the last war prisoner to be handed over to Pakistan.\n\nThe treaty also gave back more than 13,000 km² of land that the Indian Army had seized in Pakistan during the war, though India retained a few strategic areas, including Turtuk, Dhothang, Tyakshi (earlier called Tiaqsi) and Chalunka of Chorbat Valley, which was more than 804 km². The Indian hardliners, however, felt that the treaty had been too lenient to President Bhutto, who had pleaded for leniency, arguing that the fragile stability in Pakistan would crumble if the accord was perceived as being overly harsh by Pakistanis and that he would be accused of losing Kashmir in addition to the loss of East Pakistan. As a result, Prime Minister Gandhi was criticised by a section in India for believing Bhutto's \"sweet talk and false vows\", while the other section claimed the agreement to be successful, for not letting it to fall into \"Versailles Syndrome” trap.\n\nIn 1973, India and Pakistan reached another compromise when both countries signed a trilateral agreement with Bangladesh that actually brought the war prisoners, non-Bengali and Pakistan-loyal Bengali bureaucrats and civilian servants to Pakistan. The Delhi Agreement witnessed the largest mass population transfer since the Partition of India in 1947.\n\nIn 2009, the issue of establishing the International Crimes Tribunal began to take public support. The tribunal was formally established in 2010 to investigate and prosecute suspects for the genocide committed in 1971 by the Pakistan Army and their local collaborators, \"Razakars\", \"Al-Badr\" and \"Al-Shams\" during the Bangladesh Liberation War.\n\n\nAfter the war, 41 battle honours and 4 theatre honours were awarded to units of the Indian Army; notable among them are:\n\n\nFor bravery, a number of soldiers and officers on both sides were awarded the highest gallantry award of their respective countries. Following is a list of the recipients of the Indian award Param Vir Chakra, Bangladeshi award Bir Sreshtho and the Pakistani award Nishan-E-Haider:\n\nRecipients of the Param Vir Chakra:\n\nRecipients of the Bir Sreshtho:\n\n\n\nRecipients of the Nishan-E-Haider:\n\nOn 25 July 2011, Bangladesh Swadhinata Sammanona, the Bangladesh Freedom Honour, was posthumously conferred on former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.\n\nOn 28 March 2012, President of Bangladesh Zillur Rahman and the Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina conferred Bangladesh Liberation War Honour and Friends of Liberation War Honour to 75 individuals, six organisations, Mitra Bahini and the people of India at a special ceremony at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre, Dhaka. This included eight heads of states: former Nepalese President Ram Baran Yadav, the third King of Bhutan Jigme Dorji Wangchuck, former Soviet Presidents Leonid IIyich Brezhnev and Nikolai Viktorovich Podgorny, former Soviet Prime Minister Alexei Nikolaevich Kosygin, former Yugoslav President Marshal Josip Broz Tito, former UK Prime Minister Sir Edward Richard George Heath and former Nepalese Prime Minister Bishweshwar Prasad Koirala. The organisations include the BBC, Akashbani (All India Radio), International Committee of the Red Cross, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Oxfam and Kolkata University Shahayak Samiti.\n\nThe list of foreign friends of Bangladesh has since been extended to 568 people. It includes 257 Indians, 88 Americans, 41 Pakistanis, 39 Britons, 9 Russians, 18 Nepalese, 16 French and 18 Japanese.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "12006609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12006609", "title": "International Students of History Association", "text": "International Students of History Association\n\nThe International Students of History Association (ISHA) is an international non-governmental organization of students of history. Based and active mainly in Europe, ISHA's goals are to facilitate communication and provide a platform of exchange for students of history and related sciences on an international level.\n\nISHA was founded in Budapest in 1990 thanks to the initiative of Hungarian history students who, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, wanted to forge links with their colleagues in Western Europe. At present, ISHA's members include more than 25 sections in fifteen European countries, and a number of observers and associate members, while ISHA is itself an associate member of the European Students' Union (ESU). Moreover, ISHA closely cooperates with a number of other academic networks, among them the European History Network and EUROCLIO, the European Association of History Educators.\n\nThroughout the academic year, the various member sections take turns organizing several seminars and an Annual Conference. These events usually last five to seven days and take place with thirty to fifty (in case of the Annual Conference, up to a hundred) student participants from around Europe. They comprise workshops, discussions, lectures and presentations on varying topics, but also offer a cultural programme with visits and excursions. Additional leisure and evening activities are meant to provide more informal opportunities for participants to meet one another and thereby broaden their intercultural understandings.\n\nPast conferences\nIn 2009-10, ISHA took part in the project \"Connecting Europe through History – Experiences and Perceptions of Migration in Europe\", together with EUROCLIO and The Europaeum, an organization of ten leading European universities.\n\nSince 1999, ISHA publishes its own journal, \"Carnival\", in which students can publish articles of their own. \"Carnival\" is a yearly publication and is open to contributions from all students of history and related sciences (not only ISHA members).\n\nThe organs of ISHA are:\n"}
{"id": "1084786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084786", "title": "Kansei", "text": "Kansei\n\n\nThe broad panoply of changes and new initiatives of the Tokugawa shogunate during this era became known as the Kansei Reforms.\n\nMatsudaira Sadanobu (1759–1829) was named the shōgun's chief councilor (\"rōjū\") in the summer of 1787; and early in the next year, he became the regent for the 11th shōgun, Tokugawa Ienari. As the chief administrative decision-maker in the \"bakufu\" hierarchy, he was in a position to effect radical change; and his initial actions represented an aggressive break with the recent past. Sadanobu's efforts were focused on strengthening the government by reversing many of the policies and practices which had become commonplace under the regime of the previous shōgun, Tokugawa Ieharu. These reform policies could be interpreted as a reactionary response to the excesses of his \"rōjū\" predecessor, Tanuma Okitsugu (1719–1788); and the result was that the Tanuma-initiated, liberalizing reforms within the \"bakufu\" and the relaxation of \"sakoku\" (Japan's \"closed-door\" policy of strict control of foreign merchants) were reversed or blocked.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30724310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30724310", "title": "Lecale", "text": "Lecale\n\nLecale (), is the name of a peninsula and several different historical territorial divisions all located in the east of modern-day County Down, Northern Ireland.\n\nIt is an area of historical and geographic significance, bounded by the Quoile Marshes (now drained, but formerly extensive), the Blackstaff River, the Irish Sea and Strangford Lough. It has an oddly isolated position, virtually cut off from its hinterland, but open to invasion and influence from the east and south.\n\nAnciently it was the name of the Irish district of \"Leath Cathail\". As Ladcathel it was a county of the Earldom of Ulster, and later the name of the former barony of Lecale, which was then split into Lecale Lower and Lecale Upper by 1851.\n\nLeath Cathail is said to consist of the present-day baronies of Lecale Lower and Lecale Upper, and was a subdivision of the ancient kingdom of Ulaid. It gets its name from Cathal, a prince of Ulaid about 700 A.D. who was a descendant of Fiachna, a son of Deaman, a king of Ulaid. Hence Leath Cathail literally means \"Cathal's half of Dál Fiatach\".\n\nMore anciently Leath Cathail was known as Magh Inis, meaning the \"island plain\", with the name \"Isle Lecale\" still used in the area. These names reflect that until the first sea barriers and drainage systems where constructed about 200 years ago, that Lecale was almost entirely encircled by Dundrum Bay, Strangford Lough, and the Irish Sea.\n\nThe Cenél nÓengusa are noted as being kings of Leath Cathail, with the \"Ua Flathraoi\" cited as lords by the 12th century. According to the Annals of the Four Masters, on the day of the Festival of Paul and Peter (29 June), 1147, the Ulaid gave battle to the Cenél nEógain of Tír Eoghain who had pursued them to the shores of \"Dún Droma\" (Dundrum Bay), Leath Cathail. The Ulaid suffered a heavy defeat, including the death of Archu Ua Flathraoi, \"lord of Leath-Chathail\", with the victorious \"Cenél nEógain\" plundering Lecale and taken off with Ulidian hostages.\n\nThis \"Dún Droma\" (\"fort of the ridge\"), is now known as Dundrum, and is called \"Dún Droma Dairinne\", the \"fort of Dairinne's ridge\", in a poem by Gilbride MacNamee, a bard of the Cenél nEóġain. This poem, written to lament the death of Bryan O'Neill, and the defeat of the Irish at the battle of Downpatrick in 1260, boasts of their victories over their enemies and makes mentions the victory over the Ulidians, however in reference to the battle of Downpatrick, the bard would lament \"Alas! We have paid for it\".\n\nDundrum Castle, which now occupies the original \"dún\" or earthen fort, is said to have been built for the Knights Templar by John de Courcy, and they are said to have held it until 1313 when their order was suppressed. It was afterward granted to the prior of Down.\n\nSt. Patrick landed at the Slaney estuary on his return to Ireland. A large granite statue of him looking into the rest of Ireland at Raholp today overlooks the site. He died at the Abbey of Saul where he began his mission and was administered his dying communion by Bishop Tassach of Raholp. His remains were carried to Downpatrick, then known as Dun Dhá Leath Glais, which lies within Lecale Upper.\n\nBrigid of Kildare's relics were brought to Downpatrick for safekeeping from Danish plunderers in 835 and Saint Columba was brought here from Iona in 877. The frequent burning of Downpatrick caused them to be buried in the abbey yard and the site was forgotten about until 1185. Upon rediscovery John de Courcy had them reinstated in a tomb within the abbey on 9 June 1186 by Cardinal Vivian.\n\nThe abbey was desecrated by Lord Leonard Grey in 1538 and he was executed three years later for his callous actions. It appears that the relics of the saints remained intact until 1790 when the building was being remodelled as Down Cathedral. Accounts given record that the tomb was vandalised and the relics were scattered over the abbey yard prompting the Downpatrick people to hurriedly bury them at their present site.\n\nIt is said that the town cross was placed on the grave but it was carried off and vandalised. The Belfast Naturalists' Field Club erected the large granite slab over the grave in 1900 to protect the grave as it had become customary for those leaving Ireland to take soil from the grave with them.\n\nThe Earls of Kildare formerly held control of the customs of Stangford and Ardglass, both in Lecale Lower, of which it is noted that:\n\n\"The port offered excellent sea communications and the fertile area of Lecale was prosperous, so de Courcey incorporated the whole as part of the Pale and rewarded his followers with grants of land. Later, Henry VIII granted the revenue of the port, amounting to £5,000, to Gerald Fitzgerald, Earl of Kildare. The association of the Kildare family with Ardglass continued for three centuries\"\n\nLecale is also recorded under the name of \"Ladcathel\" as one of the seven counties of the Earldom of Ulster in 1333. It was also the name of a former barony in Ireland, which by 1851 had been split into Lecale Lower and Lecale Upper.\n\nThe Russells of Downpatrick have been established in Lecale since the 12th century having been recorded in the area since Osberto Russell accompanied John de Courcy in 1177 into Ulster. Thomas Russell, one of the leaders of the United Irishmen who led the rising of 1803, was imprisoned in Downpatrick gaol and on 21 October 1803 was hanged at the gate of the gaol. 'The Man From God Knows Where' is a ballad written by Florence Wilson in commemoration of him.\n\nUntil 1745, when the first sea barriers were constructed by Edward Southwell, the sea encircled almost the whole of the area. This action saw the creation of the River Quoile and 500 acres of land around Downpatrick. Strangford Lough bounds the northern edge and the Irish Sea the east and Dundrum inner bay forms the western edge.\n\nThe soils are mostly light-medium loams, well suited for the production of grain, and it forms one of the most extensively cultivated areas of Northern Ireland. This was also the case historically. Ordnance Survey memoirs of 1833 to 1837 state that in some parishes, such as Dunsfort and Ballee, the land was almost exclusively used for cultivation, rather than grazing. The low livestock density meant that marl and lime was often used instead of manure. Arthur Young observed that the area was almost completely under grain cultivation (largely barley) during the late 18th century and that south Lecale was more fertile than the north.\n\nIn 1967, a 3108ha area of the Lecale Peninsula, lying between the Mourne Mountains and Strangford Lough, was designated as the Lecale Coast Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.\n\n"}
{"id": "42572635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42572635", "title": "Levon Panos Dabağyan", "text": "Levon Panos Dabağyan\n\nLevon Panos Dabağyan (11 November 1933; Aksaray, Fatih, İstanbul, Turkey – 7 May 2017, Istanbul) was a Turkish writer and researcher of Armenian descent. A member of Turkish Historical Society, he claimed that there was no genocide of Armenians. \n\nHe was the candidate in Istanbul for the far-right Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) in the 1969 Turkish parliamentary elections.\n"}
{"id": "12944918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12944918", "title": "List of wealthiest historical figures", "text": "List of wealthiest historical figures\n\nThe list of the wealthiest historical figures gathers published estimates as to the (inflation-adjusted) net-worth and fortunes of the wealthiest historical figures in comparison. Due to problems arising from different definitions of wealth, ways of measuring it, various economic models throughout history, as well as multiple other reasons—this article discusses the wealthiest people in the following separate historical periods: Antiquity, Middle Ages and modern period. Accordingly—because of the previously mentioned difficulties—it is not possible to determine the single richest person in all of history.\n\nFor the modern period, wealth can be measured more or less objectively via inflation adjustment, e.g. comparing the nominal GDP of the United States of the respective periods, and then converting it into contemporary United States dollars. For the medieval and ancient history, comparison of wealth becomes more problematic, on one hand due to the inaccuracy or unreliability of records, on the other due to the difficulty of comparing a pre-industrial economy to a modern one, and especially in the presence of absolute monarchy, where an entire kingdom or empire is considered the ruler's personal property. The latter factor is also an issue in the early modern to modern period, e.g. Davidson (2015) lists Joseph Stalin among \"The 10 Richest People of All Time\" for his \"complete control of a nation with 9.6% of global GDP\".\n\nExcluding monarchs and autocrats, the wealthiest private individual in the history of capitalism is variously identified as Jakob Fugger (died 1525), of the early modern Fugger family of merchants and bankers, and early 20th-century American entrepreneurs Andrew Carnegie (died 1919) and John D. Rockefeller (died 1937). Frequently, one of these few people is considered to be the richest person of all time, depending on source.\n\nWhile the Rothschild family rose to the status of the wealthiest family of bankers in the 19th century, their wealth was distributed among a number of family members, preventing them from appearing among the wealthiest individuals. The richest among the Rothschilds was the head of its English branch—Nathan Mayer Rothschild—the richest person of his time. Bernstein and Swan in \"All the Money in the World\" (2008) mention the top three richest Americans ever—all tycoons of the Gilded Age—respectively: John D. Rockefeller, Andrew Carnegie and Cornelius Vanderbilt; Henry Ford was ranked only 12th.\n\nAccording to Close (2016), the wealthiest woman in the history of capitalism, excluding monarchs, was \"L'Oréal\" heiress Liliane Bettencourt, whose net worth was at $40.7 billion in 2015. Including monarchs, he mentions Empress Wu for Antiquity, Isabella of Castile for Middle Ages, and Catherine the Great for modern history.\n\nListed individuals are thought to have had a net worth of at least the equivalent of 100 billion United States dollars. Therefore, it excludes figures such as Andrew W. Mellon, Richard B. Mellon, Stephen Van Rensselaer, A.T. Stewart, Heshen, J.P. Morgan, and others.\n\nAbsolute rulers or conquerors are sometimes listed for the territory they controlled rather than for their immediate personal wealth (Davidson (2015) for TIME.com listed Akbar I, Genghis Khan and Emperor Shenzong of Song for their imperial possessions, while Alan Rufus is listed for his immediate possessions within the feudal system of Norman England).\n\nFor Classical Antiquity, even more than for the High Middle Ages, the definition of personal wealth becomes difficult to compare with the modern period; especially in the case of divine kings, where an entire empire might be considered the personal property of a deified emperor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6748485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6748485", "title": "Longue durée", "text": "Longue durée\n\nThe longue durée (; ) is an expression used by the French Annales School of historical writing to designate their approach to the study of history. It gives priority to long-term historical structures over what François Simiand called \"histoire événementielle\" (\"evental history\", the short-term time-scale that is the domain of the chronicler and the journalist), concentrating instead on all-but-permanent or slowly evolving structures, and substitutes for élite biographies the broader syntheses of prosopography.\n\nThe longue durée is part of a tripartite system that includes short-term événements and medium-term conjunctures (periods of decades or centuries when more profound cultural changes such as the industrial revolution can take place).\n\nThe approach, which incorporates social scientific methods such as the recently evolved field of economic history into general history, was pioneered by Marc Bloch and Lucien Febvre in the Interwar period. The approach was carried on by Fernand Braudel in the second part of the century: Braudel took stock of the current status of social studies in crisis, foundering under the weight of their own successes, in an article in 1958, \"Histoire et sciences sociales: La longue durée\". Among the works which Braudel remarked on as examples of the \"longue durée\" was Alphonse Dupront's study of the long-standing idea in Western Europe of a crusade, which extended across diverse European societies far beyond the last days of the actual crusades, and among spheres of thought with a long life he noted Aristotelian science. In the \"longue durée\" of economic history, beyond, or beneath, the cycles and structural crises, lie \"old attitudes of thought and action, resistant frameworks dying hard, at times against all logic.\" In this sense the history of the \"longue durée\" that informs Braudel's two masterworks offers a contrast to the archives-directed history that arose at the end of the 19th century and a return to the broader views of the earlier generation of Jules Michelet, Leopold von Ranke, Jacob Burckhardt or Numa Denis Fustel de Coulanges.\n\nAveril Cameron, in examining the Mediterranean world in late antiquity concluded that \"consideration of the \"longue durée\" is more helpful than the appeal to immediate causal factors.\" Sergio Villalobos also expressly took the long view in his \"Historia del pueblo chileno.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15768328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15768328", "title": "Luz Jiménez", "text": "Luz Jiménez\n\nLuz Jiménez or Luciana (born Julia Jiménez González; 1897–1965) was an indigenous Mexican model and Nahuatl-language storyteller and linguistic informant from Milpa Alta, D.F.\n\nAs a young woman she witnessed the Mexican Revolution, and was present when Emiliano Zapata and his revolutionary army entered Milpa Alta in 1911. Her eyewitness account is one of the only testimonies of Emiliano Zapata speaking Nahuatl. In 1916 most of her male relatives were killed in a massacre by the Carrancistas.\n\nIn the 1930s she served as a linguistic informant to linguists working to document the Nahuatl language. Among others she worked with Benjamin Lee Whorf who credits her in his description of Milpa Alta Nahuatl. She also worked as a model for artist Diego Rivera and her portrait can be seen in at least three of his murals, one of them the famous Tlatelolco market scene.\n\nIn 1942 she started work as a model at the Escuela Nacional de Pintura, Escultura y Grabado \"La Esmeralda\" (National School of Painting, Sculpture and Printmaking) in Frida Kahlo's classes.\n\nIn her old age she told her life's story to anthropologist Fernando Horcasitas who published it with the title \"Life and Death in Milpa Alta\".\n\nAs the godparents of her daughter Concha, Jean Charlot and Anita Brenner were her \"compadres\". Luz died in 1965 after being hit by a car in Mexico City.\n\nJiménez as a model appears \"inter alia\" in the following works:\n\n"}
{"id": "38498072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38498072", "title": "Maurits van Rooijen", "text": "Maurits van Rooijen\n\nMaurits van Rooijen FRSA (Breda, 1956) is a Dutch socio-economic historian and geographer. His research has concentrated on green urbanisation and re-interpreting garden city principles. In recent publications he has promoted the concept of the \"Global Knowledge City\" arguing that in \"the 21st century besides the need to blend urbanisation with agriculture and manufacturing (the original garden city mission), global knowledge innovation should be at the core of sustainable urbanisation.\"\n\nIn 2013 he was awarded the prize for EAIE Constance Meldrum Award for Vision & Leadership Since 2012, he has been the CEO & Rector of the London School of Business and Finance (LSBF) \n\nBorn in Breda, Netherlands in 1956, Maurits van Rooijen attended the Onze-Lieve-Vrouwe lyceum (gymnasium beta) and studied at Utrecht University. In parallel to his postgraduate in \"Social and Economic History\" degree, he also did the postgraduate programme in \"Sociology for Built Environment\". He was lecturer/researcher at his alma mater in Urban Studies and obtained his doctorate in Geography for research about the roots and prospects of green urbanisation, on which he wrote various publications. He taught by invitation for extended periods at several universities worldwide, such as University of Pennsylvania, Cambridge University, University of Hull, University College London, Bergen University Norway, University of Hanover Germany, Vienna University of Technology Austria, and has held professorships at Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, Beijing Union University, Victoria University, Australia, Nyenrode Business University.\n\nAfter working at the Erasmus University Rotterdam in various senior administrative roles (1987-1993), van Rooijen moved to the University of Westminster, London where worked from 1993 to 2009. At Westminster, he was the founding Director for International Education from 1993 and then, from 2003, the Executive Vice-President for International and Institutional Development, reporting directly to the Vice-Chancellor, and a member of the university executive board and academic council. \n\nFrom 2009 to 2012 van Rooijen was Rector Magnificus and CEO of Nyenrode Business University.\n\nVan Rooijen became Rector and CEO of the London School of Business and Finance (LSBF), a private for-profit business school based in London, in 2012. He was appointed to expand innovation of all schools belonging to the LSBF Group and St Patrick's College, London which like the LSBF Group, is owned by Global University Systems. Since 2013 he has been Academic CEO of Global University Systems, Acting Rector of GISMA Business School in Germany (also owned by Global University Systems) and remains the CEO and Rector of London School of Business and Finance.\n\nFrom 2009-2012 he was chairman of the Euro-Mediterranean University of Slovenia, and has since 2008 he has been president of the Compostela Group of Universities,\nHe has also been co-chairman of the World Association for Cooperative Education, a Boston-based organization dedicated to promoting work-integrated and experiential learning, since 2008, and has been vice-president of the European Access Network, a London-based organization encouraging access to higher education for underrepresented groups, for over 15 years. He is an associate of Global Higher Education Consultants\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54144592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54144592", "title": "Michele Giuseppe Canale", "text": "Michele Giuseppe Canale\n\nMichele Giuseppe Canale (1808-1890) was an Italian historian.\n\nHe was born in Genoa, and through Cavour's influence secured the professorship of history and geography at Genoa's Polytechnic Institute. In 1858 he founded the Società Ligure di Storia Patria, a society to promote the study of national history.\n\nHis most important publication was the \"Storia della repubblica di Genova\" (Vols. I.-V., 1858–74).\n\n"}
{"id": "8204334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8204334", "title": "Modris Eksteins", "text": "Modris Eksteins\n\nModris Eksteins (born December 13, 1943) is a Canadian historian with a special interest in German history and modern culture.\n\nBorn in Riga, Latvia, his works include \"Rites of Spring: The Great War and the Birth of the Modern Age\" (1989), which won the Wallace K. Ferguson Prize and the Trillium Book Award, \"Walking Since Daybreak: A Story of Eastern Europe, World War II and the Heart of Our Century\" (1999), which juxtaposes the history of World War II and Latvia with personal memoir, and won the Pearson Writers' Trust Non-Fiction Prize, and \"Solar Dance: Genius, Forgery, and the Eclipse of Certainty\" (2012), which seeks to interpret the enormous posthumous success of Vincent van Gogh and discusses his forger Otto Wacker, and won the 2012 British Columbia National Award for Canadian Non-Fiction. His work has been translated into German, French, Dutch, Spanish, Portuguese, Polish, Latvian, Japanese, and Chinese.\n\nAfter emigrating to Canada as a child, Eksteins, son of a Baptist minister, settled first in Winnipeg and then in Toronto, where he attended Upper Canada College on scholarship and then the University of Toronto (Trinity College) from which he graduated with a BA in 1965. Meanwhile, he attained a Diploma from Heidelberg University in 1963. He then studied at Oxford University (St. Antony's College) as a Rhodes Scholar, earning his BPhil in 1967, and DPhil in 1970. He joined the Division of Humanities at University of Toronto Scarborough in 1970, retiring as professor emeritus of history in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17456097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17456097", "title": "Museo Memoria de la Ciudad", "text": "Museo Memoria de la Ciudad\n\nThe Museum of the Memory of the City (Museo Memoria de la Ciudad) is located in the Viola House (Casa Viola), one of the nine buildings that make up the architectonic complex Manzana de la Rivera, in front the Government house, in Asunción, capital of Paraguay. This Museum was an idea of the architect Carlos Colombino, and was inaugurated on 14 August 1996. a journey through its different spaces will allow to make a reading of Asuncion's history, in its different phases of development. The objects that it treasures had been collected in the country, as well as in the cities of New York City, Madrid, París, Montevideo and Buenos Aires.\n\nCASA VIOLA\n\nThe house Viola is a Typical colonial construction dated from 1750–1758, its location answers to the disposition of the streets before doctor Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia squared the city. The house has a tile roof. There is a gallery in front; behind the gallery there is a blacksmith's shop built over wooden beams and columns. Previously, the house had three big rooms, now there's only one, located in front of the government. In the back part there is a passing gallery, as a sample of the culata yovai, type of antique Paraguayan houses. The roof is made of palm and tacuara; the tiles are set with a mud kind of cement.\n\nAlter the change of government in 1989, people wanted to restore few places in town. In this context, a group of architecture students Start the campaign \"Salvemos la Manzana frente al palacio\" which means \"let’s save the block in front of the government palace\", due to the damage of the construction and in opposition to a project that pretend to demolish to build a park in its place. \nDue to the celebration of the 500 years of America's discovery, there were established through all Iberoamerica some commissions to organize few actions about it.\nThe Comisión V Centenario Paraguay, presided by the architect Juan Cristaldo, includes the Project Casa Viola, among the principal projects to be done, which was presented by the writer Augusto Roa Bastos in front of the Agencia Española de Cooperación Internacional (Spanish agency of international cooperation).\nDuring the administration of the mayor José Luis Alder, Asuncion's town hall acquired the property that of in the property of the Manzana. The restoration works started in 1991, year in which the buildings started to function again to turn it into the cultural centre of the city. Its first principal was the architect Carlos Colombino. The visit to this Museum allows a double reading through one of the facts that happened since the foundation of the city, and another one through the chronicles of its protagonists. In the Museum we can appreciate different ritual elements appertaining to the guarani culture, as a pre-Hispanic undertaker's. there's also a genealogical tree of enlightened men and women of the nation, paintings of lots of Paraguayan artists, that reflect the way of living in Asunción through the different periods, geographical maps, statistics and historicals, city maps of Asunción and the neighbor countries, from the 17th and 18th centuries, furnitures, journals, books, shields, magazines, scores, candlesticks, colonial objects, as various building elements.\nIn the year 2005, with the sponsoring of the United States embassy, the conservation and restoration Project of the heap started.\n\nARCHEOLOGY\n\nThe native guaraníes developed a prolific agro pottery activity. For the fabrication of objects they used a pottery decorated with fingers and natural dyeing. In the Museum you can appreciate an urn, used to bury their dead people.\n\nARCHITECTURE\nConcrete Lion\n\nThe lion is a very appreciated animal, especially in the European heraldry, it was used as a decorative element in Asuncion's architecture. A concrete lion is appreciated in the Museum.\n\nDoor of the National Club\n\nA carved and assembled door belonged to the National Club, founded by Carlos Antonio López’ sons and sons in law. The building to which it belonged was designed by the architect Alejandro Ravizza, being finished in 1860, located in the corner of Palma street, between 25 de diciembre (today named Chile) and Atajo (today named Alberdi).\n\nConcrete Shield of Paraguay\n\nOrnamental constructive element exponent of Paraguayan culture.\n\nWind proof door with beveled glass with Paraguay's shield.\n\nParaguay's shield was created by José Gaspar Rodríguez de Francia in 1820. next to Paraguay's shield is the one named \"Hacienda\" created by the consuls Mariano R. Alonso and Carlos A. López in the Extraordinary Congress, 25 November 1842.\n\nColonial drew tiles from the Castelvi House.\n\nThe constructive elements of Paraguayan architecture are a result of different architectonic influences: formals, functional, stylish and constructive. \nDOCUMENTS\n\nAmong the most important documents that the Museum has, the maps stand out. The maps are from different periods and establish a reflection of the historic evolution of the region. In a colored map made in Ámsterdam in 1694: Paraguay or Province of the Río La Plata with adjacent can be appreciated the adjacent regions of Tucumán and Santa Cruz de la Sierra.\nIn Paraguay's map, made at the beginnings of the 20th century, you can see the Chaco territory lost after the Guerra del Chaco (Chaco war).\nIn Paraguay's map, vulgo Paraguay, with adjacent, made in the 17th century, you can see Asuncion's street-map.\n\nDoña Ysabel Venegas’ Will\n\nThe object shown is a copy of the original Hill of Doña Isabel Venegas, cross-bred and main woman, neighbor of Asunción city, in 1578. The original one is in the National registry of Asunción (Archivo Nacional de Asunción) Juditial and Criminal Section, vol. 1537.\n\nScore\n\nThere are many scores of great value for Paraguayan musical history saved in this Museum: Añoranza triste (Sad nostalgia), Canción guarani (Guaraní song), Gratitud (Gratitude) by Carlos Federico Reyes, musician, humorist, writer and painter, born in Asunción, on 15 October 1909. Died in 1999. There are also the original scores of the polka Recuerdos de Caacupé (Caacupé memories).\n\nAsuncion's street rectification by José G. Rodríguez de Francia\n\nAcrylic panel representation: the yellow bands: street's grids (medieval European model established by the Population's ordinance and brought to America by the Spanish people. Asuncion lost like that its last prototypical Paraguayan characteristics). The black bands: map made by Azara.\n\nAsuncion's Coasting Band Project and Urban Environment Development plan\n\nThe coasting band Project propose to give solutions to lots of social, environmental, urbanism, and technical problems, caused by the spate of Paraguay River (río Paraguay); as to give a new image to that zone of the city.\n\nART\n\nPaintings\n\nLa mestiza, Indígenas chaqueños: by Roberto Holden\n\nEl mercado Guasú, Calle Palma by Ignacio Núñez Soler\n\nLa Chacarita: by Alicia Bravard\n\nPersonajes del Mercado de Asunción: little statues by Serafín Marsal(1861–1951). Born in Spain and arrived to Paraguay in 1907, where he settled definitively.\nMaqueta del Centro histórico de Asunción\n\nAsuncion's Historic Centre Model \nA three-dimensional representation of the city, the historical buildings are in Light brown. The rest of the buildings are in a neutral color.\n\nPictures of the book Paraguay's Republic\n\nPictures: Payaguá Chief, House of Government, Asuncion's Market, Cathedral Church, Encarnación Church, Brigadier Gral. Francisco Solano López, Government Park, Asuncion's Nautical and Harbor, Sketch of the first Railway section (Asunción-Villarrica).\n\nColored Carvings: Arnoldus Montanus . Publisher in Ámsterdam in 1671.\n\nAsuncion's street-map: Félix de Azara (1746–1821).\nSpanish naturalist and seaman, sent to America to arbitrate in the border situation between Spain's and Portugal's possessions. He studied the fauna and the geography of Paraguay and of the Río de la Plata.\n\nSUITE\n\nFirst music stand of Asuncion's Symphonic Orchestra.\n\nRocking-chair: Word and weave. 19th century. Don Carlos Antonio López period.\n\nColonial Bedroom\nIn this room are shown among other objects, a wedding bed, hammocks for older people and kids, Saint niche, a pitcher, a candlestick, a place were people used to pray their rosaries, while the parents prayed, a kid would be in a smaller sit passing them the mate. \n\nVARIOUS OBJECTS\nBandoneón, with its black leather box with floral details and its interior lined with red velveteen.\n\nGuaraní ritual elements, used by the guarani Indians as musical instruments and as water recipients..\n\nNiche belonging to the colonial art, originally Tabapy, made in the first half of the 18th century, painted and carved in a many-colored wood, dedicated to de Rosary Virgin. It belonged to the Isasi-de la Peña family. It was donated to this Museum by Rubén Talavera Goiburú and his wife.\nLittle wooden trunk, formed by a box with a curved lid with two pieces of wood and four screws, polished and lined up with paper in its interior.\n\nTwo pieces of tobacco, symbol of the economical growth of the Lopez Time\nJars of Yerba from the Asunción Company, commercial representations of the yerba mate, one of the products most widely used by the society\n\nMedal of the 50th anniversary of the Guarania, given to Jose Asunción Flores\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27119324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27119324", "title": "Nigel Worden", "text": "Nigel Worden\n\nNigel Worden (born 27 March 1955) is a British/South African historian. He is Emeritus Professor of History and retired from the Historical Studies department at the University of Cape Town, South Africa in 2016. He was previously Research Fellow at Clare Hall, University of Cambridge and Lecturer in Commonwealth History at the University of Edinburgh. He holds MA and PhD degrees in History from the University of Cambridge and BA degrees in Art History and Linguistics from the University of South Africa.\n\nPublications by Nigel Worden include:\n\n\nHe has received the following awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5251799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5251799", "title": "Old Serbia", "text": "Old Serbia\n\nOld Serbia ( / \"Stara Srbija\") is a Serbian term used for the territory which according to some Serbian authors formed the core of medieval Serbia. It included the regions of Raška, Kosovo and Metohija and the northwestern part of Macedonia. The Slavic population of this territory was referred to as Old Serbians ( / \"Starosrbijanci\").\n\nVuk Stefanović Karadžić referred to \"Old Serbia\" as a territory of the Serb people that was part of medieval Serbia prior to the Ottoman conquest. The term originated in Serbian common speech and was introduced by the refugees of the Great Serb Migrations who lived in territories of the Habsburg Monarchy. \nIt re-emerged in the aspirations of liberating these areas during the time of the Serbian Revolution and would later designate the areas to the south not yet liberated by 1833 and 1878.\n\nIn May 1877 a delegation of Serbs of Old Serbia presented their request to the government of Serbia to 'liberate' and unite Old Serbia with the Principality of Serbia. They also informed representatives of the Great Powers and Emperor of Russia about their demands. In the same year the Committee for the Liberation of Old Serbia and Macedonia was founded. In the 1877 peace after the Serbian-Turkish Wars (1876-1878), the Serbs hoped to gain the Kosovo Vilayet and Sanjak of Novi Pazar to the Lim river. However, with the Treaty of Berlin they received full sovereignty and made territorial gains around this time, acquiring the districts of Niš, Pirot, Vranje and . In 1913 the Sandžak, Kosovo and Metohija and Vardar Macedonia became part of the Kingdom of Serbia, and subsequently organized into the province (\"pokrajina\") of South Serbia.\n\nAfter the conquest of the area the Serbian government pursued a policy of forced Serbianisation which included systematic repression of pro-Bulgarian activists.\n\nThe \"Old Serbia\" bank opened in Skopje in 1923 to dominate and accelerate the economy of the region.\n\nIn Serbian historiography, the First Balkan War (1912-1913) is also known as \"War for Liberation of Old Serbia\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47382195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382195", "title": "Ooni Ayetise", "text": "Ooni Ayetise\n\nOoni Ayetise was the 7th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Obalufon Alayemore and was succeeded by \nOoni Lajamisan.\n"}
{"id": "1279748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279748", "title": "Ostraka (journal)", "text": "Ostraka (journal)\n\nOstraka is an academic journal published semiannually from 1992–2012 by the \"Istituto di studi comparati sulle società antiche\" of the University of Perugia in Perugia, Italy. It publishes research by professionals into the archaeology of classical antiquity.\n\n"}
{"id": "9519693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9519693", "title": "Participants in Operation Enduring Freedom", "text": "Participants in Operation Enduring Freedom\n\nFollowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, several nations took on Al-Qaeda and the Taliban during Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) in Afghanistan. OEF was the initial combat operations starting on 7 October 2001, in the wake of the 11 September attacks on the United States, and during 2002 and 2003.\n\nThis list covers US and coalition forces and other forms of support for OEF from October 2001. Some nations' operations in Afghanistan continued as part of NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). For example, United States troops are deployed both in the OEF and ISAF.\n\n\"See the article Afghanistan War order of battle for the current disposition of coalition forces in Afghanistan.\"\n\n\"For coalition forces involved in NATO International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) combat operations in southern Afghanistan in 2006, see the article Coalition combat operations in Afghanistan in 2006. For coalition forces in Afghanistan in 2007, see the article Coalition combat operations in Afghanistan in 2007. For coalition forces in Afghanistan in 2008, see the article Coalition combat operations in Afghanistan in 2008. For the International Security Assistance Force for coalition forces in Afghanistan as part of ISAF.\"\n\nAfghan National Security Forces (ANSF) are currently trying to take an increasing role in battling the Taliban insurgency.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2013 Albania deployed a total of 2944 troops to Afghanistan with members of the Special Operations Battalion (Albania) operating in various mission across the provinces of Kandahar and Herat.\n\nAt their peak Australian troops in Afghanistan numbered 1,550. They were one of only three countries to openly support operations in Afghanistan at the war's beginning, along with the United States and the United Kingdom. Australian troops were deployed to Uruzgan province, while Special Forces personnel also operated in Afghanistan.\n\nThe Armed Forces of Armenia is tripling its Afghan contingent to 130 personnel and it may increase its military presence in Afghanistan to 260 personnel at the next troop rotation.\n\nThe Azerbaijani Armed Forces has deployed over 184 soldiers to Afghanistan.\n\nBangladesh provided the use of its airspace and seaports.\n\nBulgaria has deployed 608 troops in Afghanistan, as well as medical personnel.\n\nIn 2002, a tri-national detachment known as the European Participating Air Forces of 18 Danish, Netherlands and Norwegian F-16 ground attack fighters aircraft deployed to Manas Air Base in Kyrgyzstan to support operations in Afghanistan. Belgium contributed a C-130 Hercules and four F-16 aircraft. Currently Belgium has around 550 troops stationed in Afghanistan, mainly in Kabul, Kunduz and Kandahar airport.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina deployed a unit of 37 men to destroy munitions and clear mines, in addition to 6 command personnel, as part of the Multinational force in Iraq. The unit was first deployed to Fallujah, then Talil Air Base, and is now located at Camp Echo. In December 2006, the Bosnian government formally extended its mandate through June 2007. Bosnia and Herzegovina is planning to send another 49 soldiers from the 6th infantry division to Iraq in August 2008, their mission will be to protect/guard Camp Victory in Baghdad.\n\nIn 2002, Canada had 2,100 personnel in the CENTCOM region (1,100 land, 225 air (6 aircraft) and 700 naval personnel (3 ships)). Ground troops included elements of the Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry Regiment and Royal Canadian Regiment, and JTF2 special forces. Since initial deployments supporting OEF, Canadian forces have supported OEF and ISAF. Since the summer of 2006, the expanded Canadian force supported the NATO ISAF mission in south Afghanistan.\n\nExit strategy: Canada had pledged to stop its military operations there by the end of 2014. And had begun logistical preparations to end any substantive combat role by the end of 2011\n\nThe People's Republic of China has provided mine-clearance and police training for Afghan Security Forces, but has resisted international pressure to deploy troops to the country. The Chinese government considers Afghanistan a quagmire, and fears that if troops were to be deployed, rising casualties would provoke massive antiwar sentiment in China, due to the One Child Policy.\n\nThe Republic of the Congo offered the United States and allies logistical support.\n\nCyprus offered the United States and allies use of its airspace and airports. Also, the United Kingdom used its RAF bases in their Sovereign Base Areas in Atrokiri and Dhekelia to stage attacks and aid the ground forces.\n\nSince April 2007, a 35-man deployment of the Czech Military Police's Special Operations Group was deployed to Helmand Province to support British forces under ISAF command in a variety of force protection and Direct Action tasks. In 2011, The Czech deployment was increased with a full deployment of a Special Operations Task Group, including the 601st Special Forces Group under the newly formed ISAF SOF (Special Operations Forces) Command.\nProvided training and material support for allied Afghan forces (donation of Mi-17 and Mi-24 helicopters to ANA).\nSent 3 times a Special Forces Detachment (601st Special Forces Group).\nOther activities in ISAF – field hospital, KAIA airfield command, PRT Logar, force protection for German PRT and Dutch PRT.\n\nSince 2002 the number of ground forces committed by the Danish army has been steadily increased from 50 to 750 soldiers and support staff. These forces include a tank platoon with 3 Leopard 2 model 2A5DK tanks. The majority of the Danish forces are deployed in the Helmand Province operating in the Gerishk District as part of the ISAF force under UK command. The Danish forces have suffered substantial casualties including 43 deaths up till January, 2013. This is currently the highest level of casualties compared to the contribution size.\n\nAdditionally Danish Jægerkorpset special forces have been deployed at various times – including a substantial number in 2002.\n\nIn 2002, a tri-national detachment known as the European Participating Air Forces of 18 Danish, Netherlands and Norwegian F-16 ground attack/fighter aircraft deployed to Manas in Kyrgyzstan to support operations in Afghanistan. Denmark contributed 6 F-16 aircraft.\n\nLars Løkke Rasmussen, prime minister of Denmark (2009-2011), said his country's commitment depends on whether Afghanistan's 7 Nov. presidential runoff produces a credible leader (the run off was cancelled).\n\nEgyptian Field Hospital at Bagram:\nEgypt opened an Egyptian Field Hospital at Bagram in 2003. The hospital treats more than 7,000 Afghans per month. Treatment is provided free of charge. 31 percent of the hospital's patients are children.\n\nlink: Egyptian Field Hospital at Bagram\nAlso,\nEgypt offered the use of its airspace.\n\nEstonia offered the use of its airspace and provided logistical support in theatre. Estonia deployed about 150, and later a further 250, to Afghanistan.\n\nOver 4,000 personnel including the Marine Nationale (one CVBG, comprising the \"Charles de Gaulle\", frigates \"La Motte-Picquet\", \"Jean de Vienne\" and \"Jean Bart\", the nuclear attack submarine \"Rubis\", the tanker \"Meuse\" and the aviso \"Commandant Ducuing\") 3,200 ground troops and 350 from the Armée de l'Air (12 Mirage 2000, Mirage F1 and Mirage IV ground-attack and reconnaissance aircraft). The first deployed French force was composed of soldiers from the 21st Marine Infantry Regiment deployed on 17 November 2001, to Mazar-e Sharif.\n\nFrench special forces operators have served in Afghanistan since the formation of ISAF, in 2003 150 COS operators were deployed to replace the Italian ISAF contingent, the COS primarily conducted reconnaissance and close-protection tasks. In 2001 and beginning again in the summer of 2003, 200 soldiers from various units of the Army Special Forces Brigade (BFST), along with marine and air commandos, have conducted operations against the Taliban, under command and in co-operation with U.S. special operations forces present in the area. French forces have since supported the ISAF mission.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2007, a 200-man COS unit operated under direct ISAF SOF command of OEF-A, their tasks were restricted to what author Stephen Saideman said was \"short-term counter terrorism and counterinsurgency raids\" rather than londer Special Reconnaissance missions, nor were they allowed to conduct partnered operations. Despite the restrictions, French SOF operators were carried out a large number of successful Direct Action operations, often in joint operations with American and sometimes British special forces. The French special forces contribution to OEF-A ended in 2007 after disputes over its role.\n\nIn August 2008, France took over control of the Kabul regional command. Ten French troops were killed and a further 21 wounded in an attack – the heaviest loss of troops France has suffered since deploying to Afghanistan in 2002 – it was announced on 19 August.\n\nIn 2009, a 150-man French special forces task group deployed operating directly for the French ISAF contribution and also conducted significant mentoring of Afghan security forces. As of 17 September 2011, 75 French soldiers have died. All French forces left Afghanistan in 2012.\n\nGeorgia deployed 174 troops to Afghanistan, and deployed 1,900 peacekeepers in 2010 for peacekeeping and counter-terrorism operations.\n\nA total of 750–800 soldiers are being deployed since 2010, making Georgia the highest net contributor per capita to the coalition forces.\n\nIn 2002, Germany had 2,560 personnel in the region. German Kommando Spezialkräfte (KSK) special forces were involved in combat operations. The German Navy has had three Frigates, one Fast Patrol Boat Group (five units) and four supply ships operating out of Djibouti, in the Gulf of Aden. A German Airbus A310 aircraft was on alert in Germany for use as a medevac platform. German forces have since supported the ISAF mission.\n\nAlthough nominally under OEF command, the KSK worked under ISAF command since 2005, carrying out numerous operations in the vicinity of the German deployment in Kabul, including a successful raid on an al-Qaeda safehouse for suicide bombers in October 2006. GSG9 is also deployed to the Kabul area, providing specialist close protection to German officials and facilities. KSK operators have commented in the German media about the restrictions placed on them by their national caveats and stated that a preference for working directly for the Americans as part of OEF-A as they had done as part of Task Force K-Bar.\n\nThe Bundestag is scheduled to vote on the mission in December 2009. It is claimed that other European nations will follow Germany's lead.\n\nGreek naval vessels have supported the ISAF since 2002.\n\nHungary deployed 360 troops to Afghanistan, provided training for allied forces, and opened its airbases for Allied use.\n\nIndia had offered all operational assistance to the United States, including use of its facilities, in any operations launched in pursuit of the perpetrators of the 11 September attack. Importantly Indian intelligence officials provided the United States\nwith needed information concerning the financing and training of Islamic extremist groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Indian government had also offered the United States the use of its territory for staging any military operations in Afghanistan.\n\nOn the naval front, India provided a frigate for escorting coalition shipping through the Straits of Malacca, made shipyards available for coalition ship repairs and opened ports for naval port calls. India offered the US its air bases and provided the Northern Alliance with logistical support. The Indian Army opened a hospital in Tajikistan, to treat injured Northern Alliance soldiers. India also loaned Mi-17 helicopters to the Northern Alliance.\n\nIran, having viewed the Taliban as a bitter enemy, aided coalition forces in an uprising in Herat.\n\nIreland has permitted U.S. military aircraft to use Shannon Airport as a refuelling hub. \nAlso, Ireland has seven troops deployed to the Isaf's headquarters in Kabul.\n\nItaly deployed Col Moschin and Gruppo Operativo Incursori (GOI) to Afghanistan, Italian Special Operations Forces were not under US-led OEF-A command, instead it operated directly in support of the Italian ISAF Task force-Nibbio, where they carried out local force protection and reconnaissance tasks.\n\nItaly had 2,850 men in Afghanistan.\n\nItalian naval warships including its only Carrier Battle Group (with the aircraft carrier \"Giuseppe Garibaldi\") supported combat operations in the North Arabian Sea. Italy deployed a 43-man engineer team to Bagram, Afghanistan to repair the runway in May 2002.\n\nJapan provided logistical support on coalition forces and financial, reconstruction and development support.\n\nKuwait provided basing and overflight permissions for all U.S. and coalition forces.\n\nKyrgyzstan allowed US and allied aircraft to use Manas Air Base.\n\nProvided logistical support.\n\n40 Special Forces AITVARAS troops, from November 2002 to 2004. After 2005 Lithuania has deployed up to 268 soldiers. Most of them were deployed in PRT Chaghcharan.\n\nLithuanian special forces were involved in Special Reconnaissance missions, since 2006 they have been in action in southern Afghanistan with British forces.\n\nMacedonia has 244 troops in Afghanistan.\n\nMalaysia provided use of its airspace and logistical support.\n\nMontenegro was scheduled to deploy 40 soldiers, a three-member medical team, and two officers under German command to Afghanistan in 2010.\n\nThe Netherlands deployed 165 KCT operators backed up by 4 Dutch Chinooks in 2005 under the direct command of OEF-A. In 2006 under ISAF mandate, the KCT deployed to Tarinkot in Uruzgan Province to work alongside Australian forces, the KCT conducted long-range reconnaissance and specialist intelligence gathering for both the Dutch Battle Group and ISAF SOF command.\n\nThe Netherlands help in 2006 included a build, fight and air support mission in Afghanistan with 2100 soldiers. In 2010 all Netherlands troops returned home and a few months later they began a police training mission with the Marechaussee and the Task Force. The Netherlands troops are members of the ISAF.\n\nNew Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark announced in April 2008 that there would be additional New Zealand troops sent to the Provincial Reconstruction Team (PRT) in Banyan Province, because of concern over the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan. A member of the NZSAS in Afghanistan, Corporal Bill Apiata, was awarded the Victoria Cross for New Zealand in 2007 for bravery under fire in 2004. Three other SAS soldiers also received bravery awards for actions during the same mission; two received the New Zealand Gallantry Decoration and one the New Zealand Gallantry Medal. There are also two C-130 Hercules and one Boeing 757 transport aircraft and an unstated number (about 120) of New Zealand Special Air Service special forces soldiers and 2 ANZAC class frigates in the Persian Gulf.\n\nIn November 2007, a nephew of New Zealand's Minister of Defence Phil Goff died in Afghanistan; he was United States Army Captain Matthew Ferrara, who held both American and New Zealand citizenship. In July 2008, the sixth Australian soldier died in Afghanistan, New Zealand-born SAS Signaller Sean McCarthy.\n\nThe decision was made in August 2009 that NZSAS troops would be sent back to Afghanistan.\n\nExit strategy: The Government of New Zealand is working on an exit plan to pull all New Zealand troops out of Afghanistan.\n\nNorwegian SOF, commanded by ISAF, has been in Afghanistan since 2001.\n\nIn 2002, a tri-national detachment known as the European Participating Air Forces of 18 Danish, Dutch and Norwegian F-16 ground attack fighters aircraft was deployed to Manas International Airport in Kyrgyzstan to support operations in Afghanistan. Norway contributed four to six F-16s. Also deployed from Norway were logistic teams, mine clearance teams, special forces groups (from HJK and MJK) and several C-130 transport aircraft. Norway also has an army training base located in Afghanistan. Currently, they have lost one soldier in an RPG attack and one special forces lieutenant in a shoot-out with hostile gunmen. Norway has also lost six soldiers in bomb attacks, including four KJKs in the same attack. Norway redeployed F-16 ground attack aircraft in 2006 as part of a joint Dutch-Norwegian unit supporting expanded NATO operations in Afghanistan. Currently Norway has a little more than 500 soldiers stationed in Afghanistan, mainly in the North and in Kabul.\n\nOman offered the United States and allies use of its airspace and air bases.\n\nPakistan has been helping in the war against the Taliban. Pakistan and Iran agreed to open borders to receive the expected increased migration of refugees from Afghanistan. Earlier, Pakistan had supported the Taliban, especially during the 1996–1998 period when they were establishing control – later relations between the two were not as close. After the 9/11 attacks, Pakistan allocated three airbases to the United States for the invasion of Afghanistan. USA depends on Pakistan for a route to Afghanistan to supply the ISAF forces more than any source.\n\nA 40-man JW GROM element deployed to Afghanistan in early 2002, in 2007 both Grom and JW Komandosów were deployed to Kandahar (after earlier successful tours of Iraq operating alongside US Navy SEALs) under direct US Command. They weren't restricted by any national caveats-the only restriction placed on them was regarding cross-border operations into Pakistan. Along with Direct Action successes, they were considered very effective in training and mentoring Afghan National Police units.\n\nPoland has approximately 2,500 troops, mainly from Wojska Lądowe, and 10 helicopters stationed primarily in Ghazni province. There is also Wojska Specjalne compound: JW Grom (ISAF SOF TF-49), JW Komandosów (ISAF SOF TF-50) (Ghazni prov. Paktika prov.), JW Nil & HHD. Poland has also provided combat engineers and logistical support.\n\nPortugal deployed 145 soldiers to Afghanistan, and provided a detachment of C-130 Hercules cargo planes. As a NATO member, Portugal supported the invocation of Article V.\n\nQatar offered the United States and allies use of the Al Udeid Airbase.\n\n40 operators from the 1st Special Operations Battalion \"Eagles\" were deployed to Afghanistan in 2006 under the direct command of OEF-A, they transitioned to ISAF command the following year and were heavily involved in mentoring Afghan National Army units. The Romanian commitment eventually grew to a full Special Operations Task Group comprising three ODA (Operational Detachment Alphas)-sized elements. They often operating closely with US Army Special Forces ODAs on joint patrols and mixed ODAs of American and Romanian operators.\n\n1,843 Force consists of a battalion in Qalat, Zabul Province. Additionally, a special forces squad (39 personnel) operates from Tagab in Kapisa Province, and a training detachment of 47 personnel is in Kabul.\n\nRussia provided a field hospital as well as a hospital in Kabul for allies and Afghan civilians.\n\nRussia has also agreed to provide logistic support for the United States forces in Afghanistan to aid in anti-terrorist operations.\n\nRussia is allowing U.S. and NATO forces to pass through its territory to go to Afghanistan.\n\nRussian Special Forces has also assisted U.S. and Afghan forces in operations in Afghanistan, by helping with intel and studying the lay of the land.\n\nSlovakia provided sappers and specialists on maintenance and reconstruction of airports and technical equipment for such operations.\n\nSlovenia deployed from 60–90 troops in Afghanistan and several IFVs (Infantry fighting vehicles) and armoured transport vehicles, and it is considering the possibility of deploying three attack helicopters.\n\nSouth Korea provided logistical support and a field hospital.\n\nAs a NATO member, Spain supported the invocation of Article V of the NATO charter. Spain made available Spanish military bases for military operations. Spanish forces have since supported the ISAF mission with about 2,500 combat troops in Afghanistan plus a helicopter detachment and 3 C-130 Hercules aircraft.\n\nSudan offered heavy and lightweight logistic support.\n\nSweden has been in Afghanistan since 2002 and has 900 soldiers there (February 2012). These troops are however NOT part of OEF, but are under the lead of ISAF. Sweden leads the PRT Mazari Sharif\n\nIn its first military deployment since 1815, Switzerland deployed 31 soldiers to Afghanistan in 2003, and two Swiss officers had worked with German troops. Swiss forces were withdrawn in February 2008.\n\nTajikistan provided use of its airspace, airbases and facilities for humanitarian aid.\n\nThailand offered America and its allies a fueling station for aircraft and provided logistical support.\n\nTurkey offered the United States use of its airspace and air refuelling for US aircraft deploying to the region. Turkey would later deploy troops to Afghanistan as part of ISAF.\n\nTurkey also provided logistical support.\n\nTurkmenistan offered the use of its airspace.\n\nThe United Arab Emirates provided 3 security personnel. Special Forces are also in Afghanistan (Wikileaks) and Al Minhad Air Base is a support hub for Australia, New Zealand, and previously Canadian air forces.\n\nUkraine allowed use of its airspace and airbases to America and its allies, but only for cargo flights. Ukraine is a participant in the NATO led International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan and has deployed troops as part of NATO's ISAF mission to the country.\n\nThe United Kingdom deployed sea, air and land assets for the invasion against the Taliban/al-Qaeda in 2001, designated Operation Veritas. The naval element consisted of one \"Invincible\"-class aircraft carrier, one amphibious ship, one destroyer, one frigate, three nuclear fleet submarines and seven Royal Fleet Auxiliaries. The submarines HMS \"Trafalga\"r and HMS \"Triumph\" launched Tomahawk missiles on targets inside Afghanistan. Special Boat Service and Special Air Service special forces also deployed. Later 45 Commando, Royal Marines deployed as part of Operation Jacana. The Royal Air Force contributed Lockheed L-1011 TriStar and Vickers VC10 tanker aircraft, Boeing E-3 Sentry surveillance and control aircraft, Hawker Siddeley Nimrod surveillance aircraft, Nimrod MR2 maritime reconnaissance aircraft, English Electric Canberra reconnaissance aircraft, Lockheed C-130 Hercules air transport aircraft and Boeing Chinook helicopters from 27 Squadron. A total of 453 members of the British Armed Forces have died during OEF (see British forces casualties in Afghanistan).\n\nSince initial deployments supporting OEF, British forces have taken part in the ISAF mission, whilst British special forces have worked with both OEF and ISAF. In January 2006, Defence Secretary John Reid announced the UK would send a PRT with several thousand personnel to Helmand for at least three years. This had been planned as part of the gradual expansion of ISAF's area of responsibility from the Kabul region to the rest of Afghanistan. An initial strength of 5,700 personnel in Afghanistan was planned, which would stabilise to around 4,500 for the rest of the deployment.\n\nIn 2002, there were approximately 7,000 troops in Afghanistan, including United States Army Rangers, troops from the 10th Mountain Division, 187th Infantry Regt. \"Rakkasans\" 101st Airborne (Air Assault), 82nd Airborne and US Marines. Marines of the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit and 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit were among the first conventional forces into Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom on 25 November 2001. The 1-87th IN, 10th Mountain Division deployed elements assisting special forces elements on 25 or 26 Nov at Mazaar Sharif and securing Bagram airfield from British special forces.\n\nThe United States Navy aircraft carrier USS \"Enterprise\" with an 8 ship and submarine task group, followed by the USS \"Carl Vinson\" with 9 other ships and submarines, deployed for operations over Afghanistan at different stages to the end of 2002. The USS \"Theodore Roosevelt\" (CVN-71) with an 11 ship and submarine task group also deployed. Additionally The USS \"George Washington\" (CVN 73) was deployed from 20 June 2002 until 20 December 2002 in support of Operation Southern Watch, and Operation Enduring Freedom.\n\nRoughly 150 aircraft were initially deployed for Operation Enduring Freedom, including some two dozen Boeing B-52 bombers and support aircraft.\n\nIn 2007, 23,000 American troops were in Afghanistan, in the OEF-A. Other US troops are in ISAF.\n\nUzbekistan had allowed the U.S. to place troops on the ground as well as use the Uzbek airbase, K2, for support activities and for deployment and command and control of Special Forces into all of Afghanistan except for the Khandahar region. K2 is no longer in use by the U.S.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316789", "title": "Patriot Day", "text": "Patriot Day\n\nIn the United States, Patriot Day occurs on September 11 of each year in memory of the people killed in the September 11 attacks of the year 2001.\n\nIn the immediate aftermath of the attacks, President George W. Bush, proclaimed Friday September 14, 2001, as a National Day of Prayer and Remembrance for the Victims of the Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001.\n\nA bill to make September 11 a national day of mourning was introduced in the U.S. House on October 25, 2001, by Rep. Vito Fossella (R-NY) with 22 co-sponsors, among them 11 Democrats and 11 Republicans. The bill requested that the President designate September 11 of each year as Patriot Day. Joint Resolution 71 passed the House by a vote of 407–0, with 25 members not voting. The bill passed the Senate unanimously on November 30. President Bush signed the resolution into law on December 18 as . On September 4, 2002, President Bush used the authority of the resolution to proclaim September 11, 2002, as the first Patriot Day.\n\nOriginal co-sponsors in the House were:\n\nFrom 2009 to 2016, President Barack Obama proclaimed September 11 as Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance, in observance of , the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act.\n\nIn 2017 and 2018, President Donald Trump proclaimed September 8–10 as National Days of Prayer and Remembrance, and proclaimed September 11 as Patriot Day.\n\nThe flag of the United States is flown at half-staff at the White House and on all U.S. government buildings and establishments throughout the world; flags are also encouraged to be displayed on individual American homes. Additionally, a moment of silence is observed to correspond with the attacks, beginning at 8:46 a.m. (Eastern Daylight Time), the time the first plane, American Airlines Flight 11, struck the North Tower of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.\n\nPatriot Day is not a federal holiday; schools and businesses remain open in observance of the occasion, although memorial ceremonies for the victims are often held. Volunteer and service opportunities are coordinated by the Corporation for National and Community Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "28362308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28362308", "title": "Petrus Johannes Blok", "text": "Petrus Johannes Blok\n\nPetrus Johannes Blok (Den Helder, 10 January 1855 – Leiden, 24 October 1929) was a Dutch historian.\n\nBorn in Den Helder, Blok studied at the Latin School of Alkmaar and read classics at Leiden University, receiving his doctorate for a study of Sextus Pompeius. After this, he got a position at the Leiden Latin School, and published two books on the city's Medieval and Burgundian history.\n\nIn 1884, he was made professor of Dutch History at the University of Groningen, where he supervised the publication of a series of historical documents from the provinces of Groningen and Drenthe. He was in the habit of traveling much to search for written documents, which brought him as far as Rome: a very long trip back then. Among his students was Pieter Jelles Troelstra.\n\nIn 1892, Blok was elected a member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1894, he succeeded Robert Fruin as professor of Dutch History in Leiden.\n\nBlok believed that it was the task of a historian to stress a country's \"national\" past and contribute to a sense of unity. It does not come as a surprise that he was one of the editors of the \"Nieuw Nederlandsch Biografisch Woordenboek\" (\"New Dutch Biographical Dictionary\"). His books are biographical in nature and are about Dutch heroes: \"Oranje\" (1919–1920), \"Frederik Hendrik\" (1924), and \"De Ruyter\" (1928).\n\nHis work, the \"Geschiedenis van het Nederlandsche volk\", consists of eight volumes, published between 1892 and 1907. It is really a history of a nation – with its arts, economy, religions, laws, and daily life – and not the story of a state. It is a book about people, but not a real social history; Blok's magnum opus has unfavorably been compared to Pirenne's famous \"Histoire de Belgique\" (1909–1932). (The English translation, by Ruth Putnam and Oscar A. Bierstadt, of Blok's book, \"History of the people of the Netherlands\", is abridged and has five volumes.)\n\nHis ideas about history as an instrument of nation building have for a long time been out of fashion among academicians, but returned very much to the center of the Dutch public debate in 2006, when politician Jan Marijnissen argued for the creation of a Museum of National History. His proposal was accepted in 2008, but ultimately the museum didn't materialize.\n\nBlok is the spiritual father of the Dutch Institute in the Villa Borghese gardens, which he founded in 1904.\n\n"}
{"id": "50202943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50202943", "title": "Regula Rytz", "text": "Regula Rytz\n\nRegula Rytz (born 2 March 1962 in Thun, Canton of Bern) is a Swiss historian and politician of the Green Party of Switzerland.\n\nRegula Rytz was born in Thun to Gisela Rytz-Flören, a Swiss musician, and Rudolf-Rytz, a Swiss architect. She graduated as teacher (Swiss \"Lehrpatent\") at the Thun seminary, and worked from 1983 to 1989 as teacher on public elementary school level (\"Volksschule\"). Rytz studied history at the University of Bern and graduated (\"Lizentiat\") in history, sociology and constitutional law in 1997. Her coop-programs included projects for the educational department (\"Erziehungsdirektion\") of the canton of Bern from 1990 to 1992, and assistance work for Professor Richard Bäumlin at the constitutional law seminary (\"Staatsrechtliches Seminar\") in 1992 and 1993. From 1998 to 2000 she researched on the field of \"Gewalt im Alltag und organisierte Kriminalität\" (literally: violence in dailylife and organized crime) within the scope of a research program of the Swiss National Science Foundation (\"Nationalfonds\") at her alma mater.\n\nOriginally a member of the SP political party and a primary school teacher, Rytz came from Thun to Bern to study history and sociology. Rytz was member of the \"Student/innenrat\", the student council of the University of Bern from 1988 to 1994. At the university she organized counter-events to the conventional lectures, reanimated the feminist science (\"Feministische Wissenschaft\") association, and was member of the action group \"Kritische Uni\" (literally: Critical University) where she spent a \"very self-determined and motion-oriented time. I had the chance to organize substantive discussions, without being clamped in a fixed political party hierarchy\", she recalled in an interview in 2011. When she joined the Green Alliance (\"Grünes Bündnis Bern\") in 1987, Rytz initially was a base member. Between 1993 and 1998 she was also engaged as political secretary of \"Grünes Bündnis Bern\", a regional fraction of the Green Party of Switzerland. In this function, she was also responsible for the organizational and strategic management, and provided technical and policy advice of Therese Frösch, the finance director of Bern. In 1994 she was elected to the parliament of the Canton of Bern where Rytz also was engaged in commissions focussing on education policy, fiscal policy, economic policy and state policy by 2005. Then she was elected as executive member (\"Gemeinderätin\") of the city of Bern where she directed the department \"Tiefbau, Verkehr und Stadtgrün\" that provided the municipal civil engineering, transport and the urban green areas. In 2008 she was re-elected, getting the most votes of all governmental members. By 2012, she was responsible for the implementation of large projects such as the reconstruction of the \"Bahnhofplatz\" plaza and the construction of Tram Bern West.\n\nAt the end of her tenure as member of the municipal executive in Bern, Rytz was elected to the National Council in the Swiss federal election in October 2011, and re-elected in October 2015. From May 2012 to April 2016 Rytz was co-president, in co-operation with Adèle Thorens, of the Green Party of Switzerland (\"Die Grünen\"). On 16 April 2016 she was elected as the party's exclusive president by further two years.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2004 Rytz was general secretary of the Swiss Federation of Trade Unions, focussing on labor law, health and free movement of persons. Regula Rytz is engaged as president of the cantonal commission for gender mainstreaming (\"Fachkommission für die Gleichstellung\"), as board member of the national Alpen-Initiative (\"Iniziativa da las Alps\") and Lötschberg initiative committees, members of the board of directors (\"Verwaltungsrätin\") of the municipal transport services in Biel/Bienne (Verkehrsbetriebe Biel), and board member of the cantonal section of the VCS Verkehrs-Club der Schweiz. The VCS is committed to sustainable mobility, endorses an optimum interaction between the different modes of transport. Regardless if automobile, tram or bike, whether on foot or by train and bus, the association relies on the combined mobility.\n\nAs member (\"Nationalrätin\") of the Swiss National Council, Rytz is engaged in the commission for transport and telecommunication (\"Kommission für Verkehr und Fernmeldewesen\"). Rytz is also committed to the ongoing political \"Atomausstiegsinitiative\" campaign for a nuclear phase-out in Switzerland, stating that Switzerland is the only country in the world to issue iodine tablets to its population as a precautionary measure to a possible atomar design basis accident.\n\nRytz is in a relationship with Michael Jordi and lives in Bern-Breitenrain.\n\n"}
{"id": "3986866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3986866", "title": "Rhetoric of science", "text": "Rhetoric of science\n\nRhetoric of science is a body of scholarly literature exploring the notion that the practice of science is a rhetorical activity. It emerged following a number of similarly-oriented disciplines during the late 20th century, including the disciplines of sociology of scientific knowledge, history of science, and philosophy of science, but it is practiced most fully by rhetoricians in departments of English, speech, and communication.\n\nRhetoric is best known as a discipline that studies the means and ends of persuasion. Science, meanwhile, is typically seen as the discovery and recording of knowledge about the natural world. A key contention of rhetoric of science is that the practice of science is, to varying degrees, persuasive. The study of science from this viewpoint variously examines modes of inquiry, logic, argumentation, the ethos of scientific practitioners, the structures of scientific publications, and the character of scientific discourse and debates.\n\nFor instance, scientists must convince their community of scientists that their research is based on sound scientific method. From a rhetorical point of view, scientific method involves problem-solution \"topoi\" (the materials of discourse) that demonstrate observational and experimental competence (arrangement or order of discourse or method), and as a means of persuasion, offer explanatory and predictive power. Experimental competence is itself a persuasive \"topos\". Rhetoric of science is a practice of suasion that is an outgrowth of some of the canons of rhetoric.\n\nSince 1970, rhetoric of science, as a field involving rhetoricians, flourished. This flourishing of scholarly activity contributed to a shift in the image of science that was taking place. A conservative approach to rhetoric of science involves treating texts as communications designed to persuade members of scientific communities. This approach concerns scientific claims that are already considered true as a result of the scientific process rather than the rhetorical process. A more radical approach, on the other hand, would treat these same texts as if the science held within them is also an object of rhetorical scrutiny. Among those in the conservative camp, who view science texts as vehicles of communication, are Charles Bazerman, John Angus Campbell, Greg Myers, Jean Dietz Moss, Lawrence J. Prelli, Carolyn Miller and Jeanne Fahnestock. Bazerman's close readings of works by Newton and Compton as well as his analysis of the reading habits of physicists and others led to a greater understanding of the successes and failures of communication. For a depiction of the views of the more radical camp, see the section titled \"Critique of Rhetoric of Science\".\n\nThe history of the rhetoric of science effectively begins with Thomas Kuhn's seminal work, \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" (1962). He examines first normal science, that is, a practice which he saw as routine, patterned and accessible with a specific method of problem-solving. Building on past knowledge, normal science advances by accretions in a knowledge base. Kuhn then contrasts normal science with revolutionary science (ground-breaking science marked by a paradigm-shift in thought). When Kuhn began to teach Harvard undergraduates historical texts such as Aristotle's writings on motion, he looked to case studies, and sought first to understand Aristotle in his own time, and then to locate his problems and solutions within a wider context of contemporary thought and actions.\n\nThe work of Thomas Kuhn was extended by Richard Rorty (1979, 1989), and this work was to prove fruitful in defining the means and ends of rhetoric in scientific discourse (Jasinski \"Intro\" xvi). Rorty, who coined the phrase \"rhetorical turn\", was also interested in assessing periods of scientific stability and instability.\n\nAnother component of the shift in science that took place in the past centres on the claim that there is no single scientific method, but rather a plurality of methods, approaches or styles. Paul Feyerabend in \"Against Method\" (1975) contends that science has found no \"method that turns ideologically contaminated ideas into true and useful theories\", in other words; no special method exists that can guarantee the success of science (302).\n\nAs evidenced in the early theory papers after Kuhn's seminal work, the idea that rhetoric is crucial to science came to the fore. Quarterly journals in speech and rhetoric saw a flourishing of discussion on topics such as inquiry, logic, argument fields, ethos of scientific practitioners, argumentation, scientific text, and the character of scientific discourse and debates. Philip Wander (1976) observed, for instance, the phenomenal penetration of science (public science) in modern life. He labelled the obligation of rhetoricians to investigate science's discourse \"The Rhetoric of Science\" (Harris \"Knowing\" 164).\n\nAs rhetoric of science began to flourish, discussion arose in a number of areas, including:\n\nOther major themes in rhetoric of science include the investigation of the accomplishments and suasive abilities of individuals (ethos) who have left a mark in their respective sciences as well as an age old concern of rhetoric of science – public science policy. Science policy involves deliberative issues, and the first rhetorical study of science policy was made in 1953 by Richard M. Weaver. Among others, Helen Longino's work on public policy implications of low-level radiation continues this tradition.\n\nThe reconstitution of rhetorical theory around the lines of invention (inventio), argumentation and stylistic adaptation is going on today (Simons 6). The key question today is whether training in rhetoric can in fact help scholars and investigators make intelligent choices between rival theories, methods or data collection, and incommensurate values (Simons 14).\n\nSeeing science from the point of texts exhibiting epistemology based on prediction and control offers new comprehensive ways to see the function of rhetoric of science (Gross \"The Origin\" 91-92). Epistemic rhetoric of science, in a broader context, confronts issues pertaining to truth, relativism, and knowledge.\n\nRhetoric of science, as a branch of inquiry, does not look at scientific (natural science) texts as a transparent means of conveying knowledge, but rather it looks at these texts as exhibiting persuasive structures. Although the natural sciences and humanities differ in a fundamental way, the enterprise of science can be viewed hermeneutically as a stream of texts which exhibit an epistemology based on understanding (Gross \"On the Shoulders 21). Its task then is the rhetorical reconstruction of the means by which scientists convince themselves and others that their knowledge claims and assertions are an integral part of privileged activity of the community of thinkers with which they are allied (Gross \"The Origin\" 91).\n\nIn an article titled \"On Viewing Rhetoric as Epistemic\" (1967), Robert L. Scott offers \"that truth can arise only from cooperative critical inquiry\" (Harris \"Knowing\" 164). Scott's probe of the issues of belief, knowledge and argumentation substantiates that rhetoric is epistemic. This train of thought goes back to Gorgias who noted that truth is a product of discourse, not a substance added to it (Harris \"Knowing\" 164).\n\nScientific discourse is built on accountability of empirical fact which is presented to a scientific community. Each form of communication is a type of genre that fosters human interaction and relations. An example is the emerging form of the experimental report (Bazerman \"Reporting\" 171-176). The suite of genres to which the rhetoric of science comes to bear on health care and scientific communities is legion.\n\nAristotle could never accept the unavailability of certain knowledge, although most now believe the contrary (Gross \"On Shoulders\" 20). That is to say, Aristotle would have rejected the central concern of rhetoric of science: knowledge. Knowing itself generates the explanation of knowing, and this is the domain of the theory of knowledge. The knowledge of knowledge compels an attitude of vigilance against the temptation of certainty (Maturana 239-245).\n\nThe claim of the epistemic problematic of rhetoric of science concerns:\n(Harris \"Knowing\" 180-181).\n\nBy the 1980s, Stephen Toulmin's work on argument fields published in his book titled \"The Uses of Argument\" (1958) came to prominence through rhetorical societies such as the Speech Communication Association which adopted a sociological view of science. Toulmin's main contribution is his notion of argument fields that saw a reinvention of the rhetorical concept topoi (topics).\n\nToulmin discusses at length the pattern of an argument – data and warrants to support a claim – and how they tend to vary across argument fields (Toulmin 1417-1422). He delineated two concepts of argumentation, one which relied on universal (field-invariant) appeals and strategies, and one which was field dependent, particular to disciplines, movements, and the like. For Toulmin, audience is important because one speaks to a particular audience at a particular point in time, and thus an argument must be relevant to that audience. In this instance, Toulmin echoes Feyerabend, who in his preoccupation with suasive processes, makes clear the adaptive nature of persuasion.\n\nToulmin's ideas pertaining to argument were a radical import to argumentation theory because, in part, he contributes a model, and because he contributes greatly to rhetoric and its subfield, rhetoric of science, by providing a model of analysis (data, warrants) to show that what is argued on a subject is in effect a structured \"arrangement\" of values that are purposive and lead to a certain line of thought.\n\nToulmin showed in \"Human Understanding\" that the arguments that would support claims as different as the Copernican revolution and the Ptolemaic revolution would not require mediation. On the strength of argument, men of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries converted to Copernican astronomy (Gross \"The Rhetoric\" 214).\n\nThe rhetorical challenge today is to find discourse that crosses disciplines without sacrificing the specifics of each discipline. The aim is to render description of these disciplines intact – that is to say, the goal of finding language that would make various scientific fields \"commensurable\" (Baake 29). In contrast, incommensurability is a situation where two scientific programs are fundamentally at odds. Two important voices who applied incommensurability to historical and philosophical notions of science in the 1960s are Thomas Kuhn and Paul Feyerabend. Various strands grew out of this idea that bear on issues of communication and invention. These strands are explicated in Randy Allen Harris's four-part taxonomy that in turn foregrounds his viewpoint that \"incommensurability is best understood not as a relation between systems, but as a matter of rhetorical invention and hermeneutics\" (Harris \"Incommensurability\" 1).\n\nIncommensurability of theory at times of radical theory change is at the heart of Thomas Samuel Kuhn's theory of paradigms (Bazerman 1). Kuhn's \"Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" offers a vision of scientific change that involves persuasion, and thus he brought rhetoric to the heart of scientific studies.\n\nKuhn's \"Structure\" provides important accounts related to the concept representation, and the key conceptual changes that occur during a scientific revolution. Kuhn sought to determine ways of representing concepts and taxonomies by frames. Kuhn's work attempts to show that incommensurable paradigms can be rationally compared by revealing the compatibility of attribute lists of say a species outlined in a pre-Darwinian and a post-Darwinian milieu accounted for in two incommensurable taxonomies, and that this compatibility is the platform for rational comparison between rival taxonomies. With a view to comparing normal science to revolutionary science, Kuhn illustrates his theory of paradigms and theory of concepts within the history of electricity, chemistry and other disciplines. He gives attention to the revolutionary changes that came about as a result of the work of Copernicus, Newton, Einstein, Roentgen, and Lavoisier.\n\nSome scholars, like Thomas C. Walker, feel that Kuhn's theory on paradigms leads to knowledge that is \"gained in small, incremental, and almost unremarkable installments.\" Walker states that while \"normal science is narrow, rigid, esoteric, uncritical, and conservative, Kuhn considers it to be the most efficient way to ensure a cumulation of knowledge.\" According to Walker, while \"ignorance and intolerance toward other theoretical frameworks are regrettable features of Kuhn's normal science...meaningful conversations can only occur within a single paradigm.\" \n\nKuhn's work was influential for rhetoricians, sociologists, and historians (and, in a more muted way, philosophers) for the development of a rhetorical perspective. His view on perception, concept acquisition and language suggest, according to Paul Hoyningen-Huene's analysis of Kuhn's philosophy, a cognitive perspective.\n\nScientists are not just persuaded by logos or argument. Innovative initiatives in science test scientific authority by invoking the authority of past results (initial section of a scientific paper) and the authority of procedure, which establish the scientist's credibility as an investigator (Gross \"Starring\" 26-27).\n\nExaminations of the ethos of scientists (individually and collectively) spawned significant contributions in the field of rhetoric of science. Michael Halloran notes in \"The Birth of Molecular Biology\" (\"Rhetoric Review\" 3, 1984) – an essay that is a rhetorical analysis of James D. Watson and Francis H. Crick's \"A Structure for Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid\" – that a large part of what constitutes a scientific paradigm is the ethos of its practitioners. This ethos is about an attitude and a way of attacking problems and propagating claims.\n\nIn \"The Rhetorical Construction of Scientific Ethos,\" Lawrence Prelli provides a systematic analysis of ethos as a tool of scientific legitimation. Prelli's work examines the exchange of information in the court of public opinion. His work provides insight into the ways in which scientific argumentation is legitimized, and thus insight into public science policy. One of the domains of rhetoric is civic life. Rhetorical criticism of science offers much in the investigation of scientific matters that impinge directly upon public opinion and policy-making decisions.\n\nRhetoric can also be defined as \"the strategic use of language\": each scientist tries to make those statements that - given the statements made by their colleagues, and the ones the former expects they will do in the future (e.g., accepting or rejecting the claims made by the former) - maximise the chances of the former's attaining the goals he or she has. So, game theory can be applied to study the choice of the claims one scientist makes. Zamora Bonilla (2006) argues that, when rhetoric is understood this way, it can be discussed whether the way scientists interact - e.g., through certain scientific institutions like peer review - leads them to make their claims in an efficient or an inefficient way, i.e., whether the 'rhetorical games' are more analogous to 'invisible hand' processes, or to 'prisoner's dilemma' games. If the former is the case, then we can assert that scientific 'conversation' is organised in such a way that the strategic use of language by scientists leads them to reach cognitive progress, and if the opposite is the case, then this would be an argument to reform scientific institutions.\n\nCorresponding to distinct lines of reasoning, figures of speech are evident in scientific arguments. The same cognitive and verbal skills that are of service to one line of inquiry – political, economic or popular – are of service to science (Fahnestock 43). This implies that there is less of a division between science and the humanities than initially anticipated. Argumentatively useful figures of speech are found everywhere in scientific writing.\n\nTheodosius Dobzhansky in \"Genetics and the Origin of Species\" offers a means of reconciliation between Mendelian mutation and Darwinian natural selection. By remaining sensitive to the interests of naturalists and geneticists, Dobzhansky – through a subtle strategy of polysemy – allowed a peaceful solution to a battle between two scientific territories. His expressed aim was to review the genetic information bearing on the problem of organic diversity. The building blocks of Dobzhansky's interdisciplinary influence that saw much development in two scientific camps were the result of the compositional choices he made. He uses, for instance, prolepsis to make arguments that introduced his research findings, and he provided a metaphoric map as a means to guide his audience. One illustration of metaphor is his use of the term \"adaptive landscapes.\" Seen metaphorically, this term is a way of representing how theorists in two different fields can unite.\n\nAnother figure that is important as an aid to understanding and knowledge is antimetabole (refutation by reversal). Antithesis also works toward a similar end.\n\nAn example of antimetabole:\n\nA more recent trend in rhetorical studies involves participation in the broader new materialist movement in philosophy and science and technology studies. This emerging area of inquiry investigates the role of rhetoric and discourse as an integral part of the Materialism of scientific practice. This approach considers how the methods of natural sciences came into being, and the particular role interaction among scientists and scientific institutions has to play. New materialist rhetoric of science of a feminist variety include those proponents see the progress of the natural sciences as having been purchased at a high cost, a cost that limits the scope and vision of science. Work in this area often draws on scholarship by Bruno Latour, Steve Woolgar, Annemarie Mol, and other new materialist scholars from science and technology studies. Work in new materialist rhetoric of science tends to be very critical of a perceived over-reliance on language in more conservative variants of rhetoric of science and has significantly criticized long-standing areas of inquiry such as incommensurability studies.\n\nRenewed interest today in rhetoric of science is its positioning as a hermeneutic meta-discourse rather than a substantive discourse practice. Exegesis and hermeneutics are the tools around which the idea of scientific production has been forged.\n\nCriticism of rhetoric of science is mainly limited to discussions around the concept of hermeneutics, which can be seen as follows:\n\nA recent critique about the rhetoric of science literature asks not if science is understood properly, but rather if rhetoric is understood properly. This dissension centres around the reading of scientific texts rhetorically; it is a quarrel about how rhetorical theory is seen as a global hermeneutic (Gross \"Intro\" \"Rhetorical\" 1-13).\n\nDilip Gaonkar in \"The Idea of Rhetoric in the Rhetoric of Science\" looks at how critics argue about rhetoric, and he unfolds the global ambitions of rhetorical theory as a general hermeneutic (a master key to all texts), with the rhetoric of science as a perfect site of analysis - a hard and fast case.\n\nIn his analysis of this 'case', Gaonkar looks at rhetoric's essential character first in traditional sense (Aristotilean and Ciceronian). Then he looked at the practice of rhetoric and the model of persuasive speech from the point of agency (productive orientation) or who controls the speech (means of communication). The rhetorical tradition is one of practice, while the theory evinces practice and teaching (Gross \"Intro\" \"Rhetorical\" 6-11). Gaonkar asserts that rhetoric seen as a tradition (Aristotilean and Ciceronia), and from the point of view of interpretation (not production or agency), rhetorical theory is \"thin.\" He argues that rhetoric appears as a thinly veiled language of criticism in such a way that it is applicable to almost any discourse.\n\nGaonkar believes that this type of globalization of rhetoric undermines rhetoric's self-representation as a situated practical art, and in so doing, it runs counter to a humanist tradition. It runs counter to the interpretative function of a critical metadiscourse. If there is no more substance, no anchor, no reference to which rhetoric is attached, rhetoric itself is the substance, or the supplement, and thus becomes substantial, giving rise to the question how well rhetoric functions as interpretative discourse.\n\nDilip Gaonkar's provocations have successfully opened the way to a broad reaching discussion that led to the defense of rhetoric analyses of scientific discourse. Responses to Gaonkar's provocations are many, of which two examples follow.\n\nThe new materialist approach to rhetoric of science has endorsed Goankar's criticisms of rhetoric of science more generally and seeks to overcome them through interdisciplinary engagement with science and technology studies. However, the new materialist approach, itself, has been subjected to significant criticism within the field, and identified as a radical variant. The question as to the adequacy of rhetoric in its encounter with scientific texts (natural sciences) is problematic on two fronts. The first concerns traditional rhetoric and its capacity as a tool to analyze scientific texts. Secondly, the answer to the question relies on an attack of the epistomological presuppositions of a classical rhetoric of science. For this reason, the radical critique is a call for the renewal of rhetorical theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "514693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=514693", "title": "Richard Hofstadter", "text": "Richard Hofstadter\n\nRichard Hofstadter (August 6, 1916 – October 24, 1970) was an American historian and public intellectual of the mid-20th century. Hofstadter was the DeWitt Clinton Professor of American History at Columbia University. Rejecting his earlier approach to history from the far left, in the 1950s he embraced consensus history, becoming the \"iconic historian of postwar liberal consensus,\" largely because of his emphasis on ideas and political culture rather than the day-to-day doings of politicians. His influence is ongoing, as modern critics profess admiration for the grace of his writing, and the depth of his insight.\n\nHis most important works are \"Social Darwinism in American Thought, 1860–1915\" (1944); \"The American Political Tradition\" (1948); \"The Age of Reform\" (1955); \"Anti-intellectualism in American Life\" (1963), and the essays collected in \"The Paranoid Style in American Politics\" (1964). He was twice awarded the Pulitzer Prize: in 1956 for \"The Age of Reform\", an unsentimental analysis of the populism movement in the 1890s and the progressive movement of the early 20th century; and in 1964 for the cultural history \"Anti-intellectualism in American Life\".\n\nRichard Hofstadter was born in Buffalo, New York, in 1916 to a Jewish father, Emil A. Hofstadter, and a German American Lutheran mother, Katherine (née Hill), who died when Richard was ten. He attended the Fosdick-Masten Park High School in Buffalo. Hofstadter then studied philosophy and history at the University at Buffalo, from 1933, under the diplomatic historian Julius W. Pratt. Despite opposition from both families, he married Felice Swados in 1936 after he and Felice spent several summers at Hunter Colony, New York, run by Margaret Lefranc, their close friend for years; they had one child, Dan. Hofstadter was raised as an Episcopalian but later identified more with his Jewish roots. Antisemitism may have cost him fellowships at Columbia and attractive professorships. The Buffalo Jewish Hall of Fame list him as one of the \"Jewish Buffalonians who have made a lasting contribution to the world.\"\n\nIn 1936, Hofstadter entered the doctoral program in history at Columbia University where his advisor Merle Curti was demonstrating how to synthesize intellectual, social, and political history based upon secondary sources rather than primary-source archival research. In 1942, Hofstadter earned his PhD and in 1944 published his dissertation \"Social Darwinism in American Thought, 1860–1915\", a commercially successful (200,000 copies) critique of late nineteenth-century American capitalism and its ruthless \"dog-eat-dog\" economic competition and Social Darwinian self-justification. Conservative critics, such as Irwin G. Wylie and Robert C. Bannister, disagree with his interpretation. The sharpest criticism of \"Social Darwinism in American Thought, 1860–1915\" focused on Hofstadter's weakness as a research scholar: he did little or no research into manuscripts, newspapers, archival, or unpublished sources. Instead, he primarily relied upon secondary sources augmented by his lively style and wide-ranging interdisciplinary readings, thus producing very well-written arguments based upon scattered evidence he found by reading other historians.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1946 Hofstadter taught history at the University of Maryland, where he became fast friends with radical sociologist C. Wright Mills and read extensively in the fields of sociology and psychology, absorbing ideas of Max Weber, Karl Mannheim, Sigmund Freud, and the Frankfurt School. His later books frequently refer to behavioral concepts such as \"status anxiety.\"\n\nIn 1946 Hofstadter joined the Columbia University faculty and in 1959 succeeded Allan Nevins as the DeWitt Clinton Professor of American History, where he played a major role in directing Ph.D. dissertations in the field. After 1945 Hofstadter philosophically broke with Charles A. Beard and moved to the right, becoming leader of the \"consensus historians,\" a term that Hofstadter disliked, but it was widely applied to his rejection of the Beardian idea that there was a fundamental conflict running throughout American history that pitted economic classes against each other.\n\nAs early as his \"American Political Tradition\" (1948) Hofstadter rejected black-and-white polarization between pro-business and anti-business politicians. Making explicit reference to Jefferson, Jackson, Lincoln, Cleveland, Bryan, Wilson, and Hoover, Hofstadter made a compelling statement of the consensus model of the American political tradition:\n\nAs a consensus historian, Hofstadter rejected Beard's interpretation of history as a succession of socio-economic group conflicts. He thought that all historical periods could be understood as an implicit consensus, shared by antagonists, explaining that the generation of Beard and Vernon Louis Parrington had:\nIn 1948 he published \"The American Political Tradition and the Men Who Made It\", incisive interpretive studies of 12 major American political leaders from the 18th-20th centuries. Besides critical success, the book sold nearly a million copies at university campuses, where it was used as a history textbook; critics found it \"skeptical, fresh, revisionary, occasionally ironical, without being harsh or merely destructive.\" Each chapter title illustrated a paradox: Thomas Jefferson is \"The Aristocrat as Democrat\"; John C. Calhoun is the \"Marx of the Master Class\"; and Franklin Roosevelt is \"The Patrician as Opportunist.\" Hofstadter's writing style was so powerful and engrossing that professors kept assigning the book long after its main points had been revised or rejected by scholars.\n\nAs a historian, Hofstadter's ground-breaking work came in using social psychology concepts to explain political history. He explored subconscious motives such as social status anxiety, anti-intellectualism, irrational fear, and paranoia—as they propel political discourse and action in politics.\n\n\"The Age of Reform\" (1955) analyzes the yeoman ideal in America's sentimental attachment to agrarianism and the moral superiority of the farm over the city. Hofstadter—himself very much a big-city person—noted the agrarian ethos was \"a kind of homage that Americans have paid to the fancied innocence of their origins, however, to call it a myth does not imply falsity, because it effectively embodies the rural values of the American people, profoundly influencing their perception of the correct values, hence their political behavior.\" In this matter, the stress is upon the importance of Jefferson's writings, and of his followers, in the development of agrarianism in the US, as establishing the agrarian myth, and its importance, in American life and politics—despite the rural and urban industrialization that rendered the myth moot.\n\n describes the origins of the First Party System as reflecting fears that the [other] political party threatened to destroy the republic. systematically analyzes and criticizes the intellectual foundations and historical validity of Charles Beard's historiography; the book \"signalled a growing support for neoconservatism\" by Hofstadter. While not publishing his harshest thoughts, Hofstadter said privately that Turner no longer was a useful guide to history, because he was too obsessed with the frontier and his ideas too often had \"a pound of false-hood for every few ounces of truth.\"\n\nHowe and Finn argue that rhetorically, Hofstadter's cultural interpretation drew upon concepts drawn from literary criticism, anthropology, and social psychology. He used them over and over: first: \"irony,\" \"paradox,\" \"anomaly,\" \"curiously.\" Second: \"myth,\" \"tradition,\" \"legend,\" \"folklore.\" Third: \"projection,\" \"unconsciously,\" \"identity,\" \"anxiety,\" and \"paranoid.\" He artfully employed their explicit scholarly meanings and their informal prejudicial connotations. His goal, they argue, was \"destroying certain cherished American traditions and myths derived from his conviction that they provided no trustworthy guide for action in the present.\" Thus Hofstadter argued, \"The application of depth psychology to politics, chancy though it is, has at least made us acutely aware that politics can be a projective arena for feelings and impulses that are only marginally related to the manifest issues.\"\n\nC. Vann Woodward stated that Hofstadter seemed \"to have a solid understanding, if not a private affection\" for \"the\nodd, the warped, the 'zanies' and the crazies of American life - left, right and middle.\"\n\nHofstadter, influenced by his wife, was a member of the Young Communist League in college, and in April 1938 he joined the Communist Party of the USA; he quit in 1939. Hofstadter had been reluctant to join, knowing the orthodoxy it imposed on intellectuals, and disillusioned by the spectacle of the Moscow Show Trials, but wrote: \"I join without enthusiasm but with a sense of obligation... my fundamental reason for joining is that I don't like capitalism and want to get rid of it.\" He remained anti-capitalist, writing, \"I hate capitalism and everything that goes with it,\" but was similarly disillusioned with Stalinism, finding the Soviet Union \"essentially undemocratic\" and the Communist Party rigid and doctrinaire. In the 1940s Hofstadter abandoned political causes, feeling that intellectuals were no more likely to \"find a comfortable home\" under socialism than they were under capitalism.\n\nBiographer Susan Baker writes that Hofstadter, \"was profoundly influenced by the political Left of the 1930s. ... The philosophical impact of Marxism was so intense and direct during Hofstadter's formative years that it formed a major part of his identity crisis. ... The impact of these years created his orientation to the American past, accompanied as it was by marriage, establishment of life-style, and choice of profession.\"\n\nGeary (2007) concludes that, \"To Hofstadter, radicalism always offered more of a critical intellectual stance than a commitment to political activism. Although Hofstadter quickly became disillusioned with the Communist Party, he retained an independent left-wing standpoint well into the 1940s. Both his first book, \"Social Darwinism in American Thought\" (1944), and \"The American Political Tradition\" (1948) were written from a radical point of view.\"\n\nIn the 1940s, Hofstadter cited Charles A. Beard as \"the exciting influence on me.\" Hofstadter specifically responded to Beard's social-conflict model of U.S. history, which emphasized the struggle among competing economic groups (primarily farmers, Southern slavers, Northern industrialists, and workers) and discounted abstract political rhetoric which rarely translated into action. Beard encouraged historians to search for the hidden self-interest and financial goals of the economic belligerents.\n\nBy the 1950s and 1960s Hofstadter had a strong reputation in liberal circles. Lawrence Cremin noted that \"Hofstadter's central purpose in writing history ... was to reformulate American liberalism so that it might stand more honestly and effectively against attacks from both left and right in a world which had accepted the essential insights of Darwin, Marx, and Freud.\" Alfred Kazin identified his use of parody:\n\nConservative commentator George Will in 2008 called Hofstadter \"the iconic public intellectual of liberal condescension,\" who \"dismissed conservatives as victims of character flaws and psychological disorders—a 'paranoid style' of politics rooted in 'status anxiety.' etc. Conservatism rose on a tide of votes cast by people irritated by the liberalism of condescension.\"\n\nAngered by the radical politics of the 1960s, and especially by the student occupation and temporary closure of Columbia University in 1968, Hofstadter began to criticize student activist methods. His friend David Herbert Donald said, \"as a liberal who criticized the liberal tradition from within, he was appalled by the growing radical, even revolutionary, sentiment that he sensed among his colleagues and his students. He could never share their simplistic, moralistic approach.\" Brick says he regarded them as \"simple-minded, moralistic, ruthless, and destructive.\" Moreover, he was \"extremely critical of student tactics, believing that they were based on irrational romantic ideas, rather than sensible plans for achievable change, that they undermined the unique status of the university, as an institutional bastion of free thought, and that they were bound to provoke a political reaction from the right.\" Coates argues that his career saw a steady move from left to right, and that his 1968 Columbia Commencement Address, \"represented the completion of his conversion to conservatism.\"\n\nDespite strongly disagreeing with their political methods, he invited his radical students to discuss goals and strategies with him. He even employed one, Mike Wallace, to collaborate with him on \"American Violence: A Documentary History\" (1970); about the book, Hofstadter student Eric Foner said that it \"utterly contradicted the consensus vision of a nation placidly evolving without serious disagreements.\"l\n\nHofstadter planned to write a three-volume history of American society, but at his death he had only completed the first volume, \"America at 1750: A Social Portrait\" (1971).\n\nHe died from leukemia on October 24, 1970, at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan at age 54.\n\nHofstadter showed more interest in his research than in his teaching. In undergraduate classes, he read aloud each day the draft of his next book. As a senior professor at a leading graduate university, Hofstadter directed more than one hundred finished doctoral dissertations but gave his graduate students only cursory attention; Hofstadter believed that this academic latitude enabled them to find their own models of history. Among them were Herbert Gutman, Eric Foner, Lawrence W. Levine, Linda Kerber, and Paula S. Fass. Some, such as Eric McKitrick and Stanley Elkins, were more conservative than he; hence, Hofstadter had few disciples and founded no school of history writing.\n\nFollowing Hofstadter's death, Columbia dedicated a locked bookcase of his works in Butler Library to him, but his widow Beatrice—who after his death married the journalist Theodore White—asked that it be removed when the physical conditions of the library deteriorated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57797068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57797068", "title": "Robert Frank Leslie", "text": "Robert Frank Leslie\n\nRobert Frank Leslie (\"fl.\" 1918–1994) was professor of history at Queen Mary University of London. His papers are held by Queen Mary Archives. He was a specialist in modern Polish history.\n\n"}
{"id": "13645927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13645927", "title": "Roger Curtis Green", "text": "Roger Curtis Green\n\nRoger Curtis Green, ONZM (15 March 1932 – 4 October 2009) was an American born, New Zealand-based archaeologist, Professor Emeritus at The University of Auckland, and member of the National Academy of Sciences and Royal Society of New Zealand. He was awarded the Hector and Marsden Medals and was an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit for his contributions to the study of Pacific culture history.\n\nRoger Green was born in Ridgewood, New Jersey, and expressed an interest in archaeology at an early age. At sixteen, his family relocated to Albuquerque, New Mexico, where his interest in North American prehistory flourished.\n\nFollowing a field season on Pueblo sites in the region under the tutelage of Frank Hibben, Green attended the University of New Mexico. While there, he undertook coursework in geology and linguistics in addition to anthropology, while at the same time being engaged in officers training. He was particularly influenced by the work of linguist Edward Sapir during this period, which likely contributed to his subsequent works in Polynesian linguistics. During this period, Green continued to work on local field projects, resulting in his first published works.\n\nHis talents were recognised early on by his professors at New Mexico, and before completing his Masters study there, Green was encouraged to enroll in a doctorate program at Harvard. While there he studied closely under Gordon Willey and Cora du Bois. It was also there that he was first introduced to Pacific prehistory by Douglas Oliver, who helped arrange a Fulbright fellowship that took him to New Zealand and on to conduct research in French Polynesia on the islands of Moorea and Mangareva. His PhD dissertation focused on the prehistoric sequence of the Auckland region.\n\nFollowing his doctoral work in the Pacific, Green replaced Jack Golson as a senior lecturer of Anthropology at The University of Auckland from 1961 to 1966. In 1966, he was promoted to associate professor, and worked for the next three years at the University of Hawaii at Mānoa. From 1970 to 1973, he worked on an extensive research project with Douglas Yen in the Solomon Islands funded by a Captain James Cook Fellowship, after which he returned to Auckland for the remainder of his teaching career. He retired from teaching in 1992, at which time he was made Professor Emeritus.\n\nIn addition to teaching at Auckland and Hawaii, Green periodically held active teaching and research positions at the American Museum of Natural History in New York, the Bernice P. Bishop Museum in Honolulu, and Te Whare Wānanga o Awanuiārangi in Whakatane, New Zealand. He also oversaw the funding of numerous research projects through the Green Foundation for Polynesian Research.\n\nDuring his teaching career, Green taught a number of students who would later make significant contributions to New Zealand and Pacific archaeology, including Janet Davidson, Les Groube, Andrew Pawley, Lisa Matisoo-Smith.\n\nGreen's earliest work was focused primarily on the Largo-Gallina phase of the Pueblo Native Americans. He conducted several excavations at various sites in New Mexico as part of academic and salvage projects.\n\nIn the Pacific, Green contributed to the individual culture histories of New Zealand, Hawaii, Samoa, Fiji, Tonga, Papua New Guinea, French Polynesia, the Solomon Islands, New Caledonia, and Easter Island. He worked extensively on the general prehistory of the Pacific, contributing to a myriad of topics including:\n\n\nAmong his methodological contributions, Green was well known for his work on obsidian dating and provenance, an invaluable tool in Pacific archaeology. Additionally, he made significant contributions to settlement pattern archaeology, particularly with his work in Moorea and Samoa.\n\nThe Green Foundation, established in 1984 by Green and his wife, Valerie, was an initiative which was started with diverted earnings from fee paying work Green was involved in. The Foundation supports multidisciplinary research in New Zealand and the Pacific.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8880497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8880497", "title": "Sarawak State Museum", "text": "Sarawak State Museum\n\nThe Sarawak State Museum () is the oldest museum in Borneo. It was founded in 1888 and opened in 1891 in a purpose-built building in Kuching, Sarawak. Naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace encouraged Charles Brooke, the second White Rajah of Sarawak, to establish the museum.\n\nStarting 23 October 2017, the museum is temporarily closed until 2020 for an RM308-million refurbishment works. Once its reopened, the museum poised to become among the finest museums in ASEAN.\n\nSince the visit of Alfred Wallace, the Rajah of Sarawak was interested in the natural history of Sarawak and has been asking his officers to collect specimens throughout the state since 1878 so that he can build a museum on a future date. As the collections began to increase, the specimens were put inside a clock tower of a government office. Then, the specimens were moved to a room above an old vegetable market when H.B Low's collections arrived from the Rajang River. The room above the old vegetable market acted as a temporary museum and was open to the public. Finally, the proper Sarawak museum was built in 1889 and opened on 4 August 1891. The museum extended a new wing in 1911. However, the brick work steps outside the old wing was demolished in 1912. The building was built to permanently house and display local indigenous arts and crafts, and collections of local animals.\n\nDuring the Japanese Occupation, the museum was directed by a Japanese officer, who was sympathetic to its goals. He protected it and the museum suffered very little damage or looting.\n\nThe historic building has been renovated. It is used to exhibit and interpret collections on the natural history of Sarawak. Shell Oil sponsored an exhibit on the petroleum industry, which has been important to Borneo. In addition, it displays archaeological artifacts and reconstructions of examples of the traditional life of the indigenous peoples, and of their arts and crafts. It has the most comprehensive archaeological, natural history, and ethnographic collections on Borneo.\n\nThe building has undergone several renovations and alterations since its construction. It is rectangular, 44’ × 160’ with walls and pillars of bricks, and roof of belian and concrete. The museum building has european-style architecture with its edifice in Queen Anne style. The galleries were lighted up by dormer windows. The galleries are lighted by dormer windows on the roof, making wall space available for exhibit displays and collections.\n\nThe ground floor of the museum holds the natural history collection and specimens of Sarawak fauna — reptiles, mammals, birds, etc., all expertly prepared and mounted for display. The west wing of the museum houses the Shell exhibition on the petroleum industries of Sarawak.\n\nThe first floor has exhibits of ethnographic artifacts of the indigenous peoples, such as models of the various types of longhouses, musical instruments, various kinds of fish and animal traps, handicrafts, models of boats and others.\n\nThe museum has been proclaimed guardian of the national patrimony, with the responsibility to search for, acquire and protect antiquities and historical monuments. The museum director is also responsible for protecting marine turtles and assisting the chief game warden in the conservation of wildlife.\n\nThe \"Sarawak Museum Journal\" is published by the museum staff. It was first published in 1911, with John Moulton the inaugural editor, making it one of the oldest scientific journals of the South-East Asian region. Topics covered include the history, natural history and ethnology of the island of Borneo.\n\nUntil 1974, the head of the museum was termed \"Curator\":\n\nAfter this, \"Director\" was the title for the head of the museum:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15187719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15187719", "title": "Sidney Bradshaw Fay", "text": "Sidney Bradshaw Fay\n\nSidney Bradshaw Fay (13 April 1876 in Washington, D.C. – 29 August 1967 in Lexington, Massachusetts) was an American historian, whose examination of the causes of World War I, \"The Origins of the World War \" (1928; revised edition 1930) remains a classic study. In this book, which won him the 1928 George Louis Beer Prize of the American Historical Association, Fay claimed that Germany was too readily blamed for the war and that a great deal of the responsibility instead rested with the Allies, especially Russia and Serbia. His stance is supported by several modern scholars, such as Christopher Clark, but it remains controversial.\n\nFay left Harvard University (Ph.D. 1900) to study at the Sorbonne and the University of Berlin. He taught at Dartmouth College (1902–14) and Smith College (1914–29) and, after the publication of his major book, at both Harvard and Yale University.\n\nFay's conclusion was that all the European powers shared in the blame, but he blamed mostly the system of secret alliances that divided Europe after the Franco-Prussian War into two mutually suspicious camps of group solidarity: Triple Alliance against Triple Entente (Fay's student Allan B. Calhamer, would later develop and publish the game \"Diplomacy\", based on this thesis). He considered Austro-Hungary, Serbia and Russia to be primarily responsible for the immediate cause of war's outbreak. Other forces besides militarism and nationalism were at work, as the economics of imperialism and the newspaper press played roles. \nFay also wrote \"The Rise of Brandenburg-Prussia to 1786\" (1937).\n\nHe married (17 August 1904) Sarah Eliza Proctor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57318014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57318014", "title": "Sonia Harmand", "text": "Sonia Harmand\n\nSonia Harmand (born in 1974) is a French archaeologist who studies Early Stone Age archaeology and the evolution of stone tool making. She received her undergraduate degree from the University of Paris where she was associated with the \"Prehistory and Technology\" research unit, which was well known in the field of stone tool analysis. Harmand earned a PhD from Paris Nanterre University, and is a research associate at CNRS, which is the largest French governmental research organization, and Europe's largest fundamental science agency. She worked as a Research Scientist at CNRS for four years before joining Stony Brook University in New York as an associate professor. In 2017 she was named one of the '50 Most Influential French' by the French edition of \"Vanity Fair\" magazine.\n\nIn 2011, Harmand discovered the Lomekwi 3 stone tools in the Turkana Basin of Kenya near the town of Lomewki. This discovery was made while Harmand was leading the West Turkana Archaeological Project team along with Jason Lewis. They were both working with Stony Brook University's Turkana Basin Institute at the time .\n\nAt the Lomekwi 3 site, between 2011 and 2012, there were 149 stone artifacts recovered in total . These artifacts were found at the Lomekwi 3 site which sits above the Toroto Tuff, dated at about 3.32 Ma . The 149 artifacts range from small broken flakes weighing less than 1kg to anvils and passive elements weighing about 12 kg . All of these tools are evidence of knapped stone tools. Stone tool knapping was previously associated with the genus \"Homo\". The discovery of stone tools from the Oldevai Gorge in Tanzania dating to about 2.6 Ma brought forth a theory of non-\"homo\" hominins usage of stone tools since there is only fossil evidence of \"homo\" from 2.4-2.3 Ma . The tools found at Lomekwi3 are dated to ≈3.3 Ma which pushes back the evidence of stone tool use by nearly 700,000 years, and further expands the overall archaeological record . Furthermore, these discoveries support the theory of usage of stone tools by non-\"homo\" hominids. Harmand and other archaeologists and paleoanthropologists suspect \"Australophithecines\" including: \"A. Africanus\", \"A. Sediba\", \"A. Garhi\", \"A. Aethiopicus\", and \"A. Robustus\" to be possible non-\"homo\" stone tool knappers. The Lomekwi 3 site is still currently under excavation and the West Turkana Archaeological Project team continues fieldwork in the Turkana Basin every summer.\nHarmand additionally worked along the northwest shore of Lake Turkana in Kenya in 2011, recovering and studying acheulean tools. The stone tools found at the Kokiselei 4 site are dated to about 1.76 Ma which pushes the evidence for acheulean tool use back an extra ≈300,000 years . Acheulean tools are thought to be connected to \"Homo Erectus\" because there were H. erectus fossils found in the same area which are dated at a similar age .\n\nSonia Harmand is currently an Associate Professor at New York's Stony Brook University teaching in the Anthropology Department. Along with professorial work, Harmand is an associate research scientist at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS), and the head of the West Turkana Archeological Project (WTAP) as of 2012. Harmand's research utilizes the chaîne opératoire method to aid in her analysis of stone tools, which places emphasis on the interactions between tool-makers and their environment. The central focus of her research at Stony Brook is on the origins of hominin technology and the role of biomechanics in stone tool production. \n\nHarmand has received many awards for her work with Early Stone Age archaeology. In 2015, Harmand won both the Stone Age Institute Award for Outstanding Research into Human Origins, and the Field Discovery Award from the Shanghai Archaeology Forum for her work with the Lomekwi 3 tools. The following year, in 2016, she earned the Prix La Recherche archaeology award in Paris, France. In 2017, the Tübingen research prize for Early Prehistory and Quaternary Ecology was awarded to Harmand from the Eberhard-Karls-University of Tübingen, Germany. \n"}
{"id": "1197460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197460", "title": "Tenement (law)", "text": "Tenement (law)\n\nA tenement (from the Latin tenere \"to hold\"), in law, is anything that is held, rather than owned. This usage is a holdover from feudalism, which still forms the basis of all real-estate law in the English-speaking world, in which the monarch alone owned the allodial title to all the land within his kingdom.\n\nUnder feudalism, land itself was never privately \"owned\" but rather was \"held\" by a tenant (from Latin \"teneo\" \"to hold\") as a fee, being merely a legal right over land known in modern law as an estate in land. This was held from a superior overlord, ( a mesne lord), or from the crown itself in which case the holder was termed a tenant-in-chief, upon some manner of service under one of a variety of feudal land tenures. The thing held is called a tenement, the holder is called a tenant, the manner of his holding is called a tenure, and the superior is called the landlord, or lord of the fee. These forms are still preserved in law, even though feudalism itself is extinct, because all real estate law has developed from them over centuries.\n\nFeudal land tenure existed in many varieties. The sole surviving form in the United States is that species of freehold known as \"free socage\". Here the service to be performed is known and fixed, and not of a base or servile nature; the \"lord of the fee\" is the State itself, and the service due to this \"lord\" is payment of the taxes upon the real estate. The major consequences, in the modern world, of this feudal approach, as distinguished from ownership, are, first, the forfeiture of the tenement upon failure to perform the service (that is, non-payment of taxes), and second, the doctrine of eminent domain, whereby the \"lord of the fee\" might take back the estate, provided he make just compensation. Also existing in a vestigial form is the concept of escheat, under which an estate of a holder without heirs returns to the ownership of the state.\n\nAn interesting side effect of this is that government entities do not pay real estate taxes to other government entities since government entities own the land rather than hold the land. Localities that depend on real estate taxes to provide services are often put at a disadvantage when the state or federal government acquires a piece of land. Sometimes, to mollify local public opinion, the state or federal government may volunteer to make payments in lieu of taxes (PILOT or PILT programs) to local governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "74142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74142", "title": "Totem pole", "text": "Totem pole\n\nTotem poles (Gyáa'aang in the Haida language) are monumental carvings, a type of Northwest Coast art, consisting of poles, posts or pillars, carved with symbols or figures. They are usually made from large trees, mostly western red cedar, by First Nations and indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest coast including northern Northwest Coast Haida, Tlingit, and Tsimshian communities in Southeast Alaska and British Columbia, Kwakwaka'wakw and Nuu-chah-nulth communities in southern British Columbia, and the Coast Salish communities in Washington and British Columbia. The word \"totem\" derives from the Algonquian (most likely Anishinaabemowin (Ojibwe)) word \"odoodem\" [], \"(his) kinship group\". The carvings may symbolize or commemorate ancestors, cultural beliefs that recount familiar legends, clan lineages, or notable events. The poles may also serve as functional architectural features, welcome signs for village visitors, mortuary vessels for the remains of deceased ancestors, or as a means to publicly ridicule someone. They may embody a historical narrative of significance to the people carving and installing the pole. Given the complexity and symbolic meanings of totem pole carvings, their placement and importance lies in the observer's knowledge and connection to the meanings of the figures and the culture in which they are embedded.\n\nTotem poles serve as important illustrations of family lineage and the cultural heritage of the Native peoples in the islands and coastal areas of North America's Pacific Northwest, especially British Columbia, Canada, and coastal areas of Washington and southeastern Alaska in the United States. Families of traditional carvers come from the Haida, Tlingit, Tsimshian, Kwakwaka’wakw (Kwakiutl), Nuxalk (Bella Coola), and Nuu-chah-nulth (Nootka), among others. The poles are typically carved from the highly rot-resistant trunks of \"Thuja plicata\" trees (popularly known as giant cedar or western red cedar), which eventually decay in the moist, rainy climate of the coastal Pacific Northwest. Because of the region's climate and the nature of the materials used to make the poles, few examples carved before 1900 remain. Noteworthy examples, some dating as far back as 1880, include those at the Royal British Columbia Museum in Victoria and the Museum of Anthropology at UBC in Vancouver.\n\nTotem poles are the largest, but not the only, objects that coastal Pacific Northwest natives use to depict spiritual reverence, family legends, sacred beings and culturally important animals, people, or historical events. The freestanding poles seen by the region's first European explorers were likely preceded by a long history of decorative carving. Stylistic features of these poles were borrowed from earlier, smaller prototypes, or from the interior support posts of house beams. \n\nAlthough 18th-century accounts of European explorers traveling along the coast indicate that decorated interior and exterior house posts existed prior to 1800, the posts were smaller and fewer in number than in subsequent decades. Prior to the 19th century, the lack of efficient carving tools, along with sufficient wealth and leisure time to devote to the craft, delayed the development of elaborately carved, freestanding poles. Before iron and steel arrived in the area, Natives used tools made of stone, shells, or beaver teeth for carving. The process was slow and laborious; axes were unknown. By the late eighteenth century, the use of metal cutting tools enabled more complex carvings and increased production of totem poles. The tall monumental poles appearing in front of native homes in coastal villages probably did not appear until after the beginning of the nineteenth century.\n\nEddie Malin has proposed that totem poles progressed from house posts, funerary containers, and memorial markers into symbols of clan and family wealth and prestige. He argues that the Haida people of the islands of Haida Gwaii originated carving of the poles, and that the practice spread outward to the Tsimshian and Tlingit, and then down the coast to the indigenous people of British Columbia and northern Washington. Malin's theory is supported by the photographic documentation of the Pacific Northwest coast's cultural history and the more sophisticated designs of the Haida poles. \n\nAccounts from the 1700s describe and illustrate carved poles and timber homes along the coast of the Pacific Northwest. By the early nineteenth century, widespread importation of iron and steel tools from Great Britain, the United States, and elsewhere led to easier and more rapid production of carved wooden goods, including poles. \nIn the 19th century, American and European trade and settlement initially led to the growth of totem pole carving, but United States and Canadian policies and practices of acculturation and assimilation caused a decline in the development of Alaska Native and First Nations cultures and their crafts, and sharply reduced totem pole production by the end of the century. Between 1830 and 1880, the maritime fur trade, mining, and fisheries gave rise to an accumulation of wealth among the coastal peoples. Much of it was spent and distributed in lavish potlatch celebrations, frequently associated with the construction and erection of totem poles. The monumental poles commissioned by wealthy family leaders to represent their social status and the importance of their families and clans. In the 1880s and 1890s, tourists, collectors, scientists and naturalist interested in native culture collected and photographed totem poles and other artifacts, many of which were put on display at expositions such as the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and the 1893 World's Columbia Exposition in Chicago, Illinois.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, before the passage of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act in 1978, the practice of Native religion was outlawed, and traditional indigenous cultural practices were also strongly discouraged by Christian missionaries. This included the carving of totem poles. Missionaries urged converts to cease production and destroy existing poles. Nearly all totem pole making had ceased by 1901. Carving of monumental and mortuary poles continued in some, more remote Native villages as late as 1905; however, as native sites were abandoned, the poles and timber homes were left to decay and vandalism.\n\nBeginning in the late 1930s, a combination of cultural, linguistic, and artistic revivals, along with scholarly interest and the continuing fascination and support of an educated and empathetic public, led to a renewal and extension of this artistic tradition. In 1938 the United States Forest Service began a program to reconstruct and preserve the old poles, salvaging about 200, roughly one-third of those known to be standing at the end of the 19th century. With renewed interest in Native arts and traditions in the 1960s and 1970s, freshly carved totem poles were erected up and down the coast, while related artistic production was introduced in many new and traditional media, ranging from tourist trinkets to masterful works in wood, stone, blown and etched glass, and other traditional and non-traditional media.\n\nTotem poles can symbolize the characters and events in mythology, or convey the experiences of recent ancestors and living people. Some of these characters may appear as stylistic representations of objects in nature, while others are more realistically carved. Pole carvings may include animals, fish, plants, insects, and humans, or they may represent supernatural beings such as the Thunderbird. Some symbolize beings that can transform themselves into another form, appearing as combinations of animals or part-animal/part-human forms. Consistent use of a specific character over time, with some slight variations in carving style, helped develop similarities among these shared symbols that allowed people to recognize one from another. For example, the raven is symbolized by a long, straight beak, while the eagle's beak is curved, and a beaver is depicted with two large front teeth, a piece of wood held in his front paws, and a paddle-shaped tail.\nThe meanings of the designs on totem poles are as varied as the cultures that make them. Some poles celebrate cultural beliefs that may recount familiar legends, clan lineages, or notable events, while others are mostly artistic. Animals and other characters carved on the pole are typically used as symbols to represent characters or events in a story; however, some may reference the moiety of the pole’s owner, or simply fill up empty space on the pole. The carved figures interlock, one above the other, to create the overall design, which may rise to a height of sixty feet or more. Smaller carvings may be positioned in vacant spaces, or they may be tucked inside the ears or hang out of the mouths of the pole’s larger figures.\nSome of the figures on the poles constitute symbolic reminders of quarrels, murders, debts, and other unpleasant occurrences about which the Native Americans prefer to remain silent... The most widely known tales, like those of the exploits of Raven and of Kats who married the bear woman, are familiar to almost every native of the area. Carvings which symbolize these tales are sufficiently conventionalized to be readily recognizable even by persons whose lineage did not recount them as their own legendary history.\nThose from cultures that do not carve totem poles often assume that the linear representation of the figures places the most importance on the highest figure, an idea that became pervasive in the dominant culture after it entered into mainstream parlance by the 1930s with the phrase \"low man on the totem pole\" (and as the title of a bestselling 1941 humor book by H. Allen Smith). However, Native sources either reject the linear component altogether, or reverse the hierarchy, with the most important representations on the bottom, bearing the weight of all the other figures, or at eye level with the viewer to heighten their significance. Many poles have no vertical arrangement at all, consisting of a lone figure atop an undecorated column.\n\nThere are six basic types of totem poles: house frontal poles, interior house posts, mortuary poles, memorial poles, welcome poles, and the ridicule or shame pole.\n\nThis type of pole, usually 20 to 40 feet tall is the most decorative. Its carvings tell the story of the family, clan or village who own them. These poles are also known as heraldic, crest, or family poles. Poles of this type are placed outside the clan house of the most important village leaders. Often, watchman figures are carved at the top of the pole to protect the pole owner’s family and the village. Another type of house frontal pole is the entrance or doorway pole, which is attached to the center front of the home and includes an oval-shaped opening through the base that serves as the entrance to the clan house.-_-\n\"\n\nThese interior poles, typically 7 to 10 feet in height, are usually shorter than exterior poles. The interior posts support the roof beam of a clan house and include a large notch at the top, where the beam can rest. A clan house may have two to four or more house posts, depending on the native group who built it. Carvings on these poles, like those of the house frontal poles, are often used as a storytelling device for children and help tell the story of the owners' family history.\n\nThe rarest type of totem pole is a mortuary structure that incorporates grave boxes with carved supporting poles or includes a recessed back to hold the grave box. It is among the tallest and most prominent poles, reaching 50 to 70 feet in height. The Haida and Tlingit people erect mortuary poles at the death of important individuals in the community. These poles may have a single figure carved at the top, which may depict the clan's crest, but carvings usually cover its entire length. Ashes or the body of the deceased person are placed in the upper portion of the pole.\n\nThis type of pole, which usually stands in front of a clan house, is erected about a year after a person has died. The clan chief’s memorial pole may be raised at the center of the village. The pole's purpose is to honor the deceased person and identify the relative who is taking over as his successor within the clan and the community. Traditionally, the memorial pole has one carved figure at the top, but an additional figure may also be added at the bottom of the pole.\n\nMemorial poles may also commemorate an event. For example, several memorial totem poles were erected by the Tlingits in honor of Abraham Lincoln, one of which was relocated to Saxman, Alaska, in 1938. The Lincoln pole at Saxman commemorates the end of hostilities between two rival Tlingit clans and symbolizes the hope for peace and prosperity following the American occupation of the Alaskan territory. The story begins in 1868, when the United States government built a customs house and fort on Tongass Island and left the U.S, revenue cutter \"Lincoln\" to patrol the area. After American soldiers at the fort and aboard the \"Lincoln\" provided protection to the Tongass group against its rival, the Kagwantans, the Tongass group commissioned the Lincoln pole to commemorate the event.\n\nCarved by the Kwakwaka'wakw (Kwakiutl) and Nuu-chah-nulth (Nootka) people, most of the poles include a large carvings of human figures, some as tall as 40 feet. Welcome poles are placed at the edge of a stream or saltwater beach to welcome guests to the community, or possibly to intimidate strangers.\n\nPoles used for public ridicule are usually called shame poles, and were created to embarrass individuals or groups for their unpaid debts or when they did something wrong. The poles are often placed in prominent locations and removed after the debt is paid or the wrong is corrected. Shame pole carvings represent the person being shamed. \n\nOne famous shame pole is the Seward Pole at the Saxman Totem Park in Saxman, Alaska. It was created to shame former U.S. Secretary of State William H. Seward for not reciprocating the courtesy or generosity of his Tlingit hosts following a potlatch given in his honor. The intent of this pole is indicated by the figure's red-painted nose and ears to symbolized Seward's stinginess.\n\nAnother example of the shame pole is the Three Frogs pole on Chief Shakes Island, at Wrangell, Alaska. This pole was erected by Chief Shakes to shame the Kiks.ádi clan into repaying a debt incurred for the support of three Kiks.ádi women who were allegedly cohabiting with three slaves in Shakes's household. When the Kiks.ádi leaders refused to pay support for the women, Shakes commissioned a pole with carvings of three frogs, which represented the crest of the Kiks.ádi clan. It is not known if the debt was ever repaid. \nThe pole stands next to the Chief Shakes Tribal House in Wrangell. The pole's unique crossbar shape has become popularly associated with the town of Wrangell, and continues to be used as part of the \"Wrangell Sentinel\" newspaper's masthead.\n\nIn 1942, the U.S. Forest Service commissioned a pole to commemorate Alexander Baranof, the Russian governor and Russian American Company manager, as a civilian works project. The pole's original intent was to commemorate a peace treaty between the Russians and Tlingits that the governor helped broker in 1805. George Benson, a Sitka carver and craftsman, created the original design. The completed version originally stood in Totem Square in downtown Sitka, Alaska. When Benson and other Sitka carvers were not available to do the work, the U.S. Forest Service had CCC workers carve the pole in Wrangell, Alaska. Because Sitka and Wrangell native groups were rivals, it has been argued that the Wrangell carvers may have altered Benson's original design. For unknown reasons, the Wrangell carvers depicted the Baranov figure without clothes. Following a Sitka Tribe of Alaska-sponsored removal ceremony, the pole was lowered due to safety concerns on October 20, 2010, using funds from the Alaska Dept. of Health and Social Services. The \"Sitka Sentinel\" reported that while standing, it was \"said to be the most photographed totem [pole] in Alaska\". The pole was re-erected in Totem Square in 2011.\n\nOn March 24, 2007, a shame pole was erected in Cordova, Alaska, that includes the inverted and distorted face of former Exxon CEO Lee Raymond. The pole represents the unpaid debt of $5 billion in punitive damages that a federal court in Anchorage, Alaska, determined Exxon owes for its role in causing the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound.\n\nSome poles from the Pacific Northwest have been moved to other locations for display out of their original context.\n\nIn 1903 Alaska’s district governor, John Green Brady, collected fifteen Tlingit and Haida totem poles for public displays from villages in southeastern Alaska. At the Louisiana Purchase Exposition (the world's fair held in Saint Louis, Missouri, in 1904), fourteen of them were initially installed outside the Alaska pavilion at the fair; the other one, which had broken in transit, was repaired and installed at the fair's Esquimau Village. Thirteen of these poles were returned to Alaska, where they were eventually installed in the Sitka National Historical Park. The other two poles were sold; one pole from the Alaska pavilion went the Milwaukee Public Museum and the pole from the Esquimau Village was sold and then given to industrialist David M. Parry, who installed it on his estate in what became known as the Golden Hill neighborhood of Indianapolis, Indiana. Although the remains of the original pole at Golden Hill no longer exist, a replica was raised on April 13, 1996, on the front lawn of The Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art in Indianapolis. Approximately two years later, the replica was moved inside the museum, and in 2005, it was installed in a new atrium after completion of a museum expansion project.\n\nThe Indian New Deal of the 1930s strongly promoted native arts and crafts, and in the totem pole they discovered an art that was widely appreciated by white society. In Alaska the Indian Division of the Civilian Conservation Corps restored old totem poles, copied those beyond repair, and carved new ones. The Indian Arts and Crafts Board, A federal government agency, facilitated their sale to the general public. The project was lucrative, but anthropologists complaining that it stripped the natives of their traditional culture and stripped away the meaning of the totem poles.\n\nAnother example occurred in 1938, when the U.S. Forest Service began a totem pole restoration program in Alaska. Poles were removed from their original places as funerary and crest poles to be copied or repaired and then placed in parks based on English and French garden designs to demystify their meaning for tourists.\n\nIn England at the side of Virginia Water Lake, in the south of Windsor Great Park, there is a tall Canadian totem pole that was given to Queen Elizabeth II to commemorate the centenary of British Columbia. In Seattle, Washington, a Tlingit funerary totem pole was raised in Pioneer Square in 1899, after being taken from an Alaskan village. In addition, the totem pole collections in Vancouver's Stanley Park, Victoria's Thunderbird Park, and the Museum of Anthropology at the University of British Columbia were removed from their original locations around British Columbia.\n\nAfter the tree to be used for the totem pole is selected, it is cut down and moved to the carving site, where the bark and outer layer of wood (sapwood) is removed. Next, the side of the tree to be carved is chosen and the back half of the tree is removed. The center of the log is hollowed out to make it lighter and to keep it from cracking. Early tools used to carve totem poles were made of stone, shell, or bone, but beginning in the late 1700s, the use of iron tools made the carving work faster and easier. In the early days, the basic design for figures may have been painted on the wood to guide the carvers, but today's carvers use paper patterns as outlines for their designs. Carvers use chain saws to make the rough shapes and cuts, while adzes and chisels are used to chop the wood. Carvers use knives and other woodworking tools to add the finer details. When the carving is complete, paint is added to enhance specific details of the figures.\n\nRaising a totem pole is rarely done using modern methods, even for poles installed in modern settings. Most artists use a traditional method followed by a pole-raising ceremony. The traditional method calls for a deep trench to be dug. One end of the pole is placed at the bottom of the trench; the other end is supported at an upward angle by a wooden scaffold. Hundreds of strong men haul the pole upright into its footing, while others steady the pole from side ropes and brace it with cross beams. Once the pole is upright, the trench is filled with rocks and dirt. After the raising is completed, the carver, the carver's assistants, and others invited to attend the event perform a celebratory dance next to the pole. A community potlatch celebration typically follows the pole raising to commemorate the event. \nTotem poles are typically not well maintained after their installation and the potlatch celebration. The poles usually last from 60 to 80 years; only a few have stood longer than 75 years, and even fewer have reached 100 years of age. Once the wood rots so badly that the pole begins to lean and pose a threat to passersby, it is either destroyed or pushed over and removed. Older poles typically fall over during the winter storms that batter the coast. The owners of a collapsed pole may commission a new one to replace it,\n\nEach culture typically has complex rules and customs regarding the traditional designs represented on poles. The designs are generally considered the property of a particular clan or family group of traditional carvers, and this ownership of the designs may not be transferred to the person who has commissioned the carvings. There have been protests when those who have not been trained in the traditional carving methods, cultural meanings and protocol, have made \"fake totem\npoles\" for what could be considered crass public display and commercial purposes. The misappropriation of coastal Pacific Northwest culture by the art and tourist trinket market has resulted in production of cheap imitations of totem poles executed with little or no knowledge of their complex stylistic conventions or cultural significance. These include imitations made for commercial and even comedic use in venues that serve alcohol, and in other settings that are insensitive or outright offensive to the sacred nature of some of the carvings.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Haisla First Nation of the Pacific Northwest began a lengthy struggle to repatriate a sacred totem from Sweden's Museum of Ethnography. Their successful efforts were documented in Gil Cardinal's \nNational Film Board of Canada documentary, \"Totem: The Return of the G'psgolox Pole\".<br>\nIn October 2015 a Tlingit totem Pole was returned from Hawaii to Alaska\n\nThe title of \"The World's Tallest Totem Pole\" is or has at one time been claimed by several coastal towns of North America's Pacific Northwest. Disputes over which is genuinely the tallest depends on factors such the number of logs used in construction or the affiliation of the carver. Competitions to make the tallest pole remain prevalent, although it is becoming more difficult to procure trees of sufficient height. The tallest poles include those in:\n\nThe thickest totem pole ever carved to date is in Duncan, British Columbia. Carved by Richard Hunt in 1988 in the Kwakwaka'wakw style, and measuring over in diameter, it represents Cedar Man transforming into his human form.\n\nNotable collections of totem poles on display include these sites:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19450529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19450529", "title": "Turin", "text": "Turin\n\nTurin (; ; ) is a city and an important business and cultural centre in northern Italy. It is the capital city of the Metropolitan City of Turin (an administrative division of Italy) and of the Piedmont region, and was the first capital city of Italy from 1861 to 1865. The city is located mainly on the western bank of the Po River, in front of Susa Valley, and is surrounded by the western Alpine arch and Superga Hill. The population of the city proper is 878,074 (31 July 2018) while the population of the urban area is estimated by Eurostat to be 1.7 million inhabitants. The Turin metropolitan area is estimated by the OECD to have a population of 2.2 million.\n\nThe city has a rich culture and history, being known for its numerous art galleries, restaurants, churches, palaces, opera houses, piazzas, parks, gardens, theatres, libraries, museums and other venues. Turin is well known for its Renaissance, Baroque, Rococo, Neo-classical, and Art Nouveau architecture. Many of Turin's public squares, castles, gardens and elegant \"palazzi\" such as the Palazzo Madama, were built between the 16th and 18th centuries. A part of the historical center of Turin was inscribed in the World Heritage List under the name Residences of the Royal House of Savoy.\n\nThe city used to be a major European political center. From 1563, it was the capital of the Duchy of Savoy, then of the Kingdom of Sardinia ruled by the Royal House of Savoy, and the first capital of the unified Italy (the Kingdom of Italy) from 1861 to 1865. Turin is sometimes called \"the cradle of Italian liberty\" for having been the birthplace and home of notable individuals who contributed to the \"Risorgimento\", such as Cavour.\n\nThe city currently hosts some of Italy's best universities, colleges, academies, lycea and gymnasia, such as the University of Turin, founded in the 15th century, and the Turin Polytechnic. In addition, the city is home to museums such as the Museo Egizio and the Mole Antonelliana. Turin's attractions make it one of the world's top 250 tourist destinations and the tenth most visited city in Italy in 2008.\n\nEven though much of its political significance and importance had been lost by World War II, Turin became a major European crossroad for industry, commerce and trade, and is part of the famous \"industrial triangle\" along with Milan and Genoa. Turin is ranked third in Italy, after Milan and Rome, for economic strength. With a GDP of $58 billion, Turin is the world's 78th richest city by purchasing power. As of 2010, the city has been ranked by GaWC as a Gamma World city. Turin is also home to much of the Italian automotive industry.\n\nTurin is well known as the home of the Shroud of Turin, the football teams Juventus F.C. and Torino F.C., the headquarters of automobile manufacturers FIAT, Lancia and Alfa Romeo, and as host of the 2006 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe Taurini were an ancient Celto-Ligurian Alpine people, who occupied the upper valley of the Po River, in the center of modern Piedmont.\n\nIn 218 BC, they were attacked by Hannibal as he was allied with their long-standing enemies, the Insubres. The Taurini chief town (\"Taurasia\") was captured by Hannibal's forces after a three-day siege. As a people they are rarely mentioned in history. It is believed that a Roman colony was established in 27 BC under the name of \"Castra Taurinorum\" and afterwards \"Julia Augusta Taurinorum\" (modern Turin). Both Livy and Strabo mention the Taurini's country as including one of the passes of the Alps, which points to a wider use of the name in earlier times.\n\nIn the 1st century BC (probably 28 BC), the Romans created a military camp (\"Castra Taurinorum\"), later dedicated to Augustus (\"Augusta Taurinorum\"). The typical Roman street grid can still be seen in the modern city, especially in the neighborhood known as the \"Quadrilatero Romano\" (Roman Quadrilateral). Via Garibaldi traces the exact path of the Roman city's decumanus which began at the \"Porta Decumani\", later incorporated into the \"Castello\" or \"Palazzo Madama\". The \"Porta Palatina\", on the north side of the current city centre, is still preserved in a park near the Cathedral. Remains of the Roman-period theater are preserved in the area of the \"Manica Nuova\". Turin reached about 5,000 inhabitants at the time, all living inside the high city walls.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the town was conquered by the Heruli and the Ostrogoths, recaptured by the Romans, but then conquered again by the Lombards and then the Franks of Charlemagne (773). The \"Contea di Torino\" (countship) was founded in the 940s and was held by the Arduinic dynasty until 1050. After the marriage of Adelaide of Susa with Humbert Biancamano's son Otto, the family of the Counts of Savoy gained control. While the title of count was held by the Bishop as count of Turin (1092–1130 and 1136–1191) it was ruled as a prince-bishopric by the Bishops. In 1230–1235 it was a lordship under the Marquess of Montferrat, styled Lord of Turin. At the end of the 13th century, when it was annexed to the Duchy of Savoy, the city already had 20,000 inhabitants. Many of the gardens and palaces were built in the 15th century when the city was redesigned. The University of Turin was also founded during this period.\n\nEmmanuel Philibert, also known under the nickname of \"Iron Head\" (Testa 'd Fer), made Turin the capital of the Duchy of Savoy in 1563. Piazza Reale (named Piazza San Carlo today) and Via Nuova (current Via Roma) were added along with the first enlargement of the walls, in the first half of the 17th century; in the same period the \"Palazzo Reale\" (Royal Palace of Turin) was also built. In the second half of that century, a second enlargement of the walls was planned and executed, with the building of the arcaded Via Po, connecting Piazza Castello with the bridge on the Po through the regular street grid.\n\nIn 1706, during the Battle of Turin, the French besieged the city for 117 days without conquering it. By the Treaty of Utrecht the Duke of Savoy acquired Sicily, soon traded for Sardinia, and part of the former Duchy of Milan, and was elevated to king; thus Turin became the capital of a European kingdom. The architect Filippo Juvarra began a major redesign of the city; Turin had about 90,000 inhabitants at the time.\n\nTurin, like the rest of Piedmont, was annexed by the French Empire in 1802. The city thus became the seat of the prefecture of Pô department until the fall of Napoleon in 1814, when the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia was restored with Turin as its capital. In the following decades, the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia led the struggle towards the unification of Italy. In 1861, Turin became the capital of the newly proclaimed united Kingdom of Italy until 1865, when the capital was moved to Florence, and then to Rome after the 1870 conquest of the Papal States. The 1871 opening of the Fréjus Tunnel made Turin an important communication node between Italy and France. The city in that period had 250,000 inhabitants. Some of the most iconic landmarks of the city, like the Mole Antonelliana, the Egyptian Museum, the Gran Madre di Dio church and \"Piazza Vittorio Veneto\" were built in this period. The late 19th century was also a period of rapid industrialization, especially in the automotive sector: in 1899 Fiat was established in the city, followed by Lancia in 1906. The Universal Exposition held in Turin in 1902 is often regarded as the pinnacle of Art Nouveau design, and the city hosted the same event in 1911. By this time, Turin had grown to 430,000 inhabitants.\nAfter World War I, harsh conditions brought a wave of strikes and workers' protests. In 1920 the Lingotto Fiat factory was occupied. The Fascist regime put an end to the social unrest, banning trade unions and jailing socialist leaders, notably Antonio Gramsci. On the other hand, Benito Mussolini largely subsidized the automotive industry, to provide vehicles to the army. Turin was then a target of Allied strategic bombing during World War II, being heavily damaged in its industrial areas by the air raids. The Allied's campaign in Italy started off from the South and slowly moved northwards in the following two years, leaving the northern regions occupied by Germans and collaborationist forces for several years.\n\nTurin was not captured by the Allies until the end of Spring Offensive of 1945. By the time the vanguard of the armoured reconnaissance units of Brazilian Expeditionary Force reached the city, it was already freed by the Italian Partisans, that had begun revolting against the Germans on 25 April 1945. Days later, troops from the US Army's 1st Armored and 92nd Infantry Divisions came to substitute the Brazilians.\n\nIn the postwar years, Turin was rapidly rebuilt. The city's automotive industry played a pivotal role in the Italian economic miracle of the 1950s and 1960s, attracting hundred of thousands of immigrants to the city, particularly from the rural southern regions of Italy. The number of immigrants was so big that Turin was said to be \"the third southern Italian city after Naples and Palermo\". The population soon reached 1 million in 1960 and peaked at almost 1.2 million in 1971. The exceptional growth gains of the city gained it the nickname of \"the Automobile Capital of Italy\" and \"the Detroit of Italy\" (Turin has been \"twinned\" with Detroit since 1998). In the 1970s and 1980s, the oil and automotive industry crisis severely hit the city, and its population began to sharply decline, losing more than one-fourth of its total in 30 years. The long population decline of the city has begun to reverse itself only in recent years, as the population grew from 865,000 to slightly over 900,000 by the end of the century. In 2006, Turin hosted the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nTurin is located in northwest Italy. It is surrounded on the western and northern front by the Alps and on the eastern front by a high hill that is the natural continuation of the hills of Monferrato. Four major rivers pass through the city: the Po and three of its tributaries, the Dora Riparia (once known as \"Duria Minor\" by the Romans, from the Celtic noun \"duria\" meaning \"water\"), the Stura di Lanzo and the Sangone.\n\nTurin features a humid subtropical climate (Köppen: \"Cfa\") in contrast to the Mediterranean climate characteristic of the coast of Italy.\n\nWinters are moderately cold but dry, summers are mild in the hills and quite hot in the plains. Rain falls mostly during spring and autumn; during the hottest months, otherwise, rains are less frequent but heavier (thunderstorms are frequent). During the winter and autumn months banks of fog, which are sometimes very thick, form in the plains but rarely on the city because of its location at the end of the Susa Valley.\n\nIts position on the east side of the Alps makes the weather drier than on the west side because of the föhn wind effect.\n\nThe highest temperature ever recorded was , while the lowest was .\n\nTurin is split up into 10 boroughs, locally called \"circoscrizioni\"; these do not necessarily correspond to the historical districts of the city, which are rather called \"quartieri\", \"rioni\", \"borghi\", \"borgate\" or \"zone\".\n\nThe following list numerates the present day boroughs and today's location of the historical districts inside them:\n\nThe mayor of Turin is directly elected every five years. The current mayor of the city is Chiara Appendino:\n\n\nTurin's City Council is composed of 50 members.\n\nTurin's historical architecture is predominantly Baroque and was developed under the Kingdom of Savoy. Nonetheless the main street of the city centre, \"Via Roma\", was built during the Fascist era (from 1931 to 1937) as an example of Italian Rationalism, replacing former buildings already present in this area.\n\nVia Roma runs between Piazza Carlo Felice and Piazza Castello. Buildings on the portion between Piazza Carlo Felice and Piazza San Carlo were designed by rationalist architect Marcello Piacentini. These blocks were built into a reticular system, composed by austere buildings in clear rationalist style, such as the impressive \"Hotel Principi di Piemonte\" and the former \"Hotel Nazionale\" in \"Piazza CLN\". Porches are built in a continuous entablature and marked with double columns, to be consistent with those of Piazza San Carlo. The section of the street between Piazza San Carlo and Piazza Castello was built in eclectic style, with arcades characterised by Serliana-type arches. To this day Via Roma is the street featuring the most fashionable boutiques of the city.\n\nVia Roma crosses one of the main squares of the city: the pedestrianized Piazza San Carlo, built by Carlo di Castellamonte in the 17th century. In the middle of the square stands the equestrian monument to Emmanuel Philibert, also known as \"Caval ëd Brons\" in local dialect (\"Bronze Horse\"); the monument depicts the Duke sheathing his sword after the Battle of St. Quentin. Piazza San Carlo arcades host the most ancient cafés of the city, such as \"Caffé Torino\" and \"Caffé San Carlo\".\n\nOn the northern edge of Via Roma stands \"Piazza Castello\", regarded as the heart of the city. The half-pedestrianized square hosts some significant buildings such as \"Palazzo Reale\" (Former Savoy Royal House), the \"Palazzo Madama\" (which previously hosted the Savoy senate and, for few years, the Italian senate after Italian unification), the former Baroque Teatro Regio di Torino (rebuilt in modern style in the 1960s, after being destroyed by fire) and the Royal Library of Turin which hosts the Leonardo da Vinci self-portrait. Moreover, Piazza Castello hosts a Fascist era building, the Torre Littoria, a sort of skyscraper which was supposed to become the headquarters of the Fascist party, although it never served as such. The building's style is quite different from the Baroque style of Piazza Castello. The square regularly hosts the main open space events of the city, live concerts included.\n\nAs for the southern part of the street, Via Roma ends in \"Piazza Carlo Felice\" and in its \"Giardino Sambuy\", a wide fenced garden right in the middle of the square. Across from Piazza Carlo Felice stands the monumental façade of Porta Nuova railway station, the central station of the city built between 1861 and 1868 by the architect Alessandro Mazzucchetti. The passengers building was renovated to host a shopping mall and more efficient passenger service offices. However, it is still an example of monumental architecture, with its stately foyer and some Baroque sights, such as the \"Sala Reale\" (the former Royal waiting room).\n\nIn \"Piazza Castello\" converge some of the main streets of the city centre. Among them one of the most significant is the arcaded \"Via Po\", built by Amedeo di Castellamonte in 1868 and featuring some interesting buildings, such as the first and original building of the University of Turin and the historical Caffè Fiorio, which was the favourite café of the 19th-century politicians. Via Po ends in Piazza Vittorio Veneto (simply called Piazza Vittorio locally), the largest Baroque square in Europe and today heart of Turin nightlife. Piazza Vittorio features the most fashionable bars and not far from here, along the Po riverfront, the \"Murazzi\" quays used to host several bars and nightclubs open till the morning until a few years ago.\n\nParallel to Via Roma, other two popular pedestrian streets, namely \"Via Lagrange\" and \"Via Carlo Alberto\", cross the old town from Via Po to \"Corso Vittorio Emanuele II\". Their recent pedestrianisation has improved their original commercial vocation. In particular, Via Lagrange has recently increased the presence of luxury boutiques. This street also hosts the Egyptian Museum of Turin, home to what is regarded as one of the largest collections of Egyptian antiquities outside of Egypt.\n\nVia Lagrange and Via Carlo Alberto cross two significant squares of the city, respectively. The former crosses \"Piazza Carignano\", well known mainly for the undulating “concave – convex – concave” Baroque façade of Palazzo Carignano. This building used to host the \"Parlamento Subalpino\" (the “Subalpine Parliament”, Parliament of the Kingdom of Sardinia which also became the Italian Parliament for a few years, after the Italian unification) and today houses the Museum of the Risorgimento. The square also features the Teatro Carignano, a well-conserved Baroque theatre.\nVia Carlo Alberto crosses \"Piazza Carlo Alberto\", a big square hosting the rear façade of Palazzo Carignano, in eclectic style. On the other side stands the monumental \"Biblioteca Nazionale\" (National Library).\n\nNot far from Via Po stands the symbol of Turin, namely the Mole Antonelliana, so named after the architect who built it, Alessandro Antonelli. Construction began in 1863 as a Jewish synagogue. Nowadays it houses the National Museum of Cinema and it is believed to be the tallest museum in the world at . The building is depicted on the Italian 2-cent coin.\n\nJust behind \"Piazza Castello\" stands the Turin Cathedral, dedicated to Saint John the Baptist, which is the major church of the city. It was built during 1491–1498 and is adjacent to an earlier bell tower (1470). Annexed to the cathedral is the Chapel of the Holy Shroud, the current resting place of the Shroud of Turin. The Chapel was added to the structure in 1668–1694, designed by Guarini. The Basilica of Corpus Domini was built to celebrate an alleged miracle which took place during the sack of the city in 1453, when a soldier was carrying off a monstrance containing the Blessed Sacrament; the monstrance fell to the ground, while the host remained suspended in air. The present church, erected in 1610 to replace the original chapel which stood on the spot, is the work of Ascanio Vitozzi.\n\nNext to the Turin Cathedral stand the Palatine Towers, an ancient Roman-medieval structure that served as one of four Roman city gates along the city walls of Turin. This gate allowed access from north to the \"cardo maximus\", the typical second main street of a Roman town. The Palatine Towers are among the best preserved Roman remains in northern Italy. Close to this site, the \"Piazza della Repubblica\" plays host to the biggest open market in Europe, locally known as \"mercato di Porta Palazzo\" (\"Porta Palazzo\" or \"Porta Pila\" are the historical and local names of this area).\n\nWest of the Porte Palatine stands the \"Quadrilatero Romano\" (Roman Quadrilateral), the old medieval district recently renewed. The current neighbourhood is characterised by its tiny streets and its several medieval buildings and today it is popular for its \"aperitivo\" bars and its small shops run by local artisans. The hub of the Quadrilatero is \"Piazza Emanuele Filiberto\".\n\nSouth of the Quadrilatero Romano stands \"Via Garibaldi\", another popular street of the city. It is a pedestrian street between Piazza Castello and \"Piazza Statuto\" which features some of the old shops of the city. Large \"Piazza Statuto\" is another example of Baroque square with arcades.\n\nAnother main street of downtown is \"Via Pietro Micca\", which starts in Piazza Castello and ends in the large \"Piazza Solferino\". The street continues in \"Via Cernaia\" up to \"Piazza XXV Dicembre\", which features the former Porta Susa passengers building, relocated in 2012 a little more southward. The new and larger passengers building is situated between \"Corso Bolzano\" and \"Corso Inghilterra\" and is an example of contemporary architecture, being a and glass and steel structure. Porta Susa is currently the international central station of the city (high speed trains to Paris) and it is becoming the central hub of railway transportation of the city, being the station in which local trains (so-called \"Ferrovie Metropolitane\"), national trains and high-speed national and international trains converge.\n\nClose to Via Cernaia stands the \"Cittadella\" (Citadel), located in the \"Andrea Guglielminetti garden\". What remains of the old medieval and modern fortress of the city, it is a starting point for a tour into the old underground tunnels below the city.\n\nSoutheast of the city centre stands \"San Salvario\" district, which extends from \"Corso Vittorio Emanuele II\" to \"Corso Bramante\" and is delimited by the Turin-Genoa railway on the west side and by the Po river on the east side. Home to an increasing immigrants' community, the district is an example of integration among different cultures; it also features an incremented nightlife after the opening of several low-cost bars and restaurants.\n\nSan Salvario is crossed by two main roads, \"Via Nizza\" and \"Via Madama Cristina\", and just as the city centre it is characterized by the grid plan typical of Turin's old neighbourhoods. The hub of the district is \"Piazza Madama Cristina\" which hosts a big open market, while several commercial activities flourish around it.\n\nThe celebrated Parco del Valentino is situated in the east side of San Salvario and, albeit not in downtown, it represents kind of central park of Turin. Thanks to the vicinity to the city centre, the park is very popular among the local people, during the day but also at night, because of the several bars and nightclubs placed here. From the terraces of Parco del Valentino, many sights of the hills on the other side of the river can be appreciated.\n\nIn the centre of the park stands the Castello del Valentino, built in the 17th century. This castle has a horseshoe shape, with four rectangular towers, one at each angle, and a wide inner court with a marble pavement. The ceilings of the false upper floors are in \"transalpino\" (i.e. French) style. The façade sports the huge coat of arms of the House of Savoy.\n\nAnother cluster of buildings in the park is the \"Borgo Medievale\" (Medieval village), a replica of medieval mountain castles of Piedmont and Aosta Valley, built for the 1884 International Exhibition.\n\nOther buildings in \"Corso Massimo d'Azeglio\" include the Torino Esposizioni complex (Turin's exhibition hall built in the 1930s) featuring a monumental entrance with a large full height porch, the circular building which hosts a night club, and the \"Teatro Nuovo\", a theatre mostly focused on ballets exhibitions. Another building is the largest synagogue of the city, located in \"Piazzetta Primo Levi\" square. Its architecture stands in the main sight of the city, as characterised by four large towers – high – topped by four onion-shaped domes.\n\nSouth of \"Centro\" stands the \"Crocetta\" district, considered one of the most exclusive districts of the city, because of highly rated residential buildings. At the heart of the district is the partially pedestrianized area crossed by \"Corso Trieste\", \"Corso Trento\" and \"Corso Duca D'Aosta\", plenty of some notable residential buildings in eclectic, neo-Gothic and Art Nouveau style. The area was built between 1903 and 1937 replacing the old parade ground, which was moved in the Southern part of the city.\n\nNorth of this area stands the \"GAM (Galleria d'Arte Moderna)\", one of the two Museum of Modern Arts of the Turin Metro area (the second and largest one is hosted in \"Castello di Rivoli\", a former Savoy Royal castle in the suburbs). The Museum stands in front a huge monument situated in the centre of the roundabout between \"Corso Vittorio Emanuele II\" and \"Corso Galileo Ferraris\": the Monument to Vittorio Emanuele II, a King of Savoy statue situated on a 39-meters high column. Next to the Museum, another significant residential building previously hosted the head office of Juventus, one of the two main Turin football clubs.\n\nWest of this area, the main building of Polytechnic University of Turin stands along \"Corso Duca Degli Abruzzi\". The 1958 building, a complex, hosts approximately 30,000 students and is considered one of the major Institutes of Technology of the country – mainly due to the vocation of the city for the industrialization, pushed by the automotive sector. This institute recently expanded in the western district of \"Cenisia\" with additional modern buildings.\n\nCrocetta is crossed by large and modern avenues, such as \"Corso Duca degli Abruzzi\", \"Corso Galileo Ferraris\", and \"Corso Einaudi\". These avenues feature long rows of trees, symbolic of Turin's typical urbanity. However, the most popular avenue is \"Corso De Gasperi\", which, albeit smaller than other avenues of the district, hosts one of the most fashionable open markets of the city, the so-called \"Mercato della Crocetta\", in which it is possible to find some discounted branded clothing among the more popular ones.\n\nThe Western border of Crocetta is instead an example of contemporary architecture. The huge avenue, made up of \"Corso Mediterraneo\" and \"Corso Castelfidardo\", is part of \"Spina Centrale\" boulevard and was recently built over the old railway (now undergrounded): as a result, the avenue is very large (up to ) and modern, having been rebuilt with valuable materials, including a characteristic lighting system supported by white high poles. This avenue hosts some examples of contemporary art, such as Mario Merz's \"Igloo\" fountain or the Per Kirkeby's \"Opera per Torino\" monument in \"Largo Orbassano\".\n\nThe East side of the district is also known as \"Borgo San Secondo\" and was so named after the church of the same name standing in \"Via San Secondo\", a major street in the neighbourhood. This area is located near \"Porta Nuova\" railway station and is actually older than the rest of the district, featuring several apartment buildings from the late 19th century, to include the birthplace and home of author Primo Levi on Corso Re Umberto. A local open market is held in \"Piazza San Secondo\" and along \"Via Legnano\". The market square also hosts the former washhouse and public baths of the neighbourhood, among the oldest examples of their kind in Turin (1905).\n\nOne of the main thoroughfares crossing Borgo San Secondo is \"Via Sacchi\", which serves as an ideal gate to the city centre: its Serlian arcades on the west side of the street (the east side is enclosed by \"Porta Nuova\" railway station service buildings) host some significant boutiques and hotels, such as the historic \"Pfatisch\" pastry shop and the \"Turin Palace Hotel\" (totally refurbished and reopened in 2015). South of \"Via Sacchi\", \"Ospedale Mauriziano\" is one of the ancient and major hospitals of the city. Going further southwards, it is possible to appreciate an interesting residential cluster of old public housing gravitating around \"Via Arquata\".\n\nBordered by \"Corso Castelfidardo\", \"Corso Vittorio Emanuele II\", \"Corso Trapani\" and \"Corso Peschiera\", this small district is mainly significant for hosting the recent expansion of Turinese Institute of Technology \"Politecnico\". The expansion was possible after under-grounding the railway under \"Corso Castelfidardo\" and the subsequent disposal of the old buildings dedicated to the train maintenance present in this area (so called \"Officine Grandi Riparazioni\" or \"OGR\"). \"Politecnico\" expanded its facilities through two huge overpass buildings over the avenue, linked to new buildings on the west side. This cluster of buildings forms an evocative square with a unique architectural style. The main building on the west side hosts a General Motors research centre, the \"General Motors Global Propulsion Systems\" (formerly known as \"General Motors Powertrain Europe\"). \"Politecnico\" area extends till \"Via Boggio\" with further facilities hosted in the former \"OGR\" facilities. The Institute plans to further build new facilities in the current parking area.\n\nNorth of \"Politecnico\" facilities, the main building of the \"OGR\" former cluster, which consists in three 180-meters long joint parallel buildings, became recently a big open space which hosts temporary exhibitions and during the hot seasons, its external spaces became a fashionable site to have a typical Italian \"aperitivo\".\n\nNorth of \"OGR\", a former prison complex called \"Le Nuove\" is a significant example of old European prison building. The complex was built between 1857 and 1869 during the reign of Victor Emmanuel II. After being disposed of during the 1990s, the complex was changed into a museum and it is possible to visit its facilities.\n\nAn example of contemporary art is the heating plant in \"Corso Ferrucci\", which has been covered with aluminium panels. Another building (19th century), now abandoned, is the former Westinghouse factory of train brakes situated in \"Via Borsellino\".\n\nThe remaining part of the district is mainly formed by residential buildings with not significant architectural value. The district had its development mainly after the World War II, following the industrial development of the town – in particular, the expansion of Lancia automotive factories in the \"Borgo San Paolo\" neighbourhood, culminated in the construction of Palazzo Lancia in 1954, the company's former headquarters. Industrialization led to consequent population growth in the nearby areas, including \"Cenisia\". Main avenues which are crossing the district are \"Corso Ferrucci\" and \"Corso Racconigi\". This last one is hosting a huge daily open market, the \"Mercato di Corso Racconigi\".\n\nThe smallest district of the city is \"Cit Turin\" (\"Little Turin\" in Piedmontese language). This small triangle surrounded by \"Corso Vittorio Emanuele II\", \"Corso Francia\" and \"Corso Inghilterra\" hosts some high rated residential buildings and is regarded as a prestigious residential neighbourhood by local people.\n\nThe district features many buildings in Art Nouveau, Art Deco and Neo-Gothic style. Among them, one of the most impressive and well-known is the \"Casa Della Vittoria\" (architect \"Gottardo Gussoni\"). Another notable example is Casa Fenoglio-Lafleur. Both buildings face Corso Francia.\n\nThe district is well known for its commercial vocation mainly in its two main streets, \"Via Duchessa Jolanda\" and \"Via Principi d'Acaja\", ideally crossing each other among the gardens \"Giardino Luigi Martini\", locally called \"Piazza Benefica\", which hosts a popular open market.\n\nThe district is also characterised by two massive recent buildings: the \"Palazzo di Giustizia\", Turin's new courthouse built in the 1990s (in a 350-metre long facility), and the first real skyscraper of Turin, the Torre Intesa Sanpaolo, which house the headquarters of one of the major Italian private banks.\n\n\"San Donato\" district is located between \"Corso Francia\", \"Corso Lecce\", \"Corso Potenza\", \"Via Nole\", the \"Parco Dora\" and \"Corso Principe Oddone\". It was populated since the medieval era, but becomes bigger during the 19th century, prospering around the canal \"Canale di San Donato\", which does not exist any more, currently replaced by the central street of the district, \"Via San Donato\". Buildings in the district are relatively recent (around 1820), except for the oldest group of small houses located in the area of \"Brusachœr\" (\"Palazzo Forneris\" building) located along \"Via Pacinotti\" near the small \"Piazza Paravia\". The conservation of the street and of this old building influences the straightness of \"Via San Donato\", which makes a slight curve to result in parallel with \"Via Pacinotti\" before ending in central \"Piazza Statuto \"square.\n\nMain church of the district is the \"Chiesa di Nostra Signora del Suffragio e Santa Zita\", which with its height of its bell tower, is well known to be the fifth tallest structure in the city of Turin, after the Mole Antonelliana, the Intesa-Sanpaolo skyscraper, the Torre Littoria and the two pennons of the Juventus Stadium. The church is hosting the \"Istituto Suore Minime di Nostra Signora del Suffragio\" and it was promoted and designed by Francesco Faà di Bruno. The legend says, that he wanted to build the tallest bell tower of the town and put a clock on the top, to all the poor people to know the time for free. The small building near the church, is what remains of \"Casa Tartaglino\", a small residential building which was also extended and modified by Faa di Bruno.\n\n\"Villino Cibrario\" in \"Via Saccarelli\" is another significant building designed by Barnaba Panizza in 1842. The building was equipped with a large garden which was eliminated to host the street. The neighbourhood has a high concentration of historic buildings in Art Nouveau style designed by architect Pietro Fenoglio (among the others, the prestigious \"Villino Raby\" in Corso Francia 8). Other significant buildings are the \"Villa Boringhieri\" in Via San Donato, and other Art Nouveau and Neo-Gothic buildings are situated in \"Via Piffetti \"and \"Via Durandi.\"\n\nAmong the modern buildings of the district, the most significant one is of course the \"Torre BBPR\" Tower (which took the name from the architecture office who designed it). The building is representing the \"post-rationalism Italian architecture\" (same style of the better known Torre Velasca tower in the city of Milan). Tower is facing the central \"Piazza Statuto\" square.\nDistrict is crossed by some significant avenues: on \"Corso Svizzera\", which crosses the district from North To South, faces the Business Centre \"Piero Della Francesca\", where the offices of \"Tuttosport,\" one of the three national sports daily newspapers has its head offices. Also on \"Corso Svizzer\"a, stands one of the oldest hospitals of the city, the \"Ospedale Amedeo di Savoia\", specialised in infectious diseases. Other major avenues are \"Corso Umbria\" and \"Corso Tassoni\".\n\nAnother big avenue, which border the district on its East, is \"Corso Principe Oddone\", which in the past was along the railway to Milan. Currently the railway has been under-grounded: the avenue will be enlarged and have same architecture style of southern \"Corso Inghilterra\" in downtown, becoming one of the major avenue of Turin.\nNorthern part of the district was part of the former industrial district of Turin, recently reconverted to a park called \"Parco Dora\". Mainly, in \"San Donato\" the portion reconverted was the one occupied by the plant of Michelin (west of \"Via Livorno\") and FIAT ironwork plants (on the East). Differently for other portions of \"Parco Dora\", this part has been totally reconverted to park without letting any evidence of the industrial area except for the cooling tower which stands along \"Corso Umbria\" and became a symbol of the park. Works are completed in the western area, where \"Corso Mortara\" has been closed to traffic and moved just a bit northern and covered by an artificial tunnel. It is possible to access the southern shore of the \"Dora\" river. South of the Park, an interesting architecture of different levels is hosting a new shopping mall called \"Centro Commerciale Parco Dora\". East of \"Via Livorno\", works are still partially in progress, with the Dora river still to be uncovered by a big slab, on which the FIAT plants used to stand). West of \"Via Livorno\", the \"Environment Park\" is a research centre for renewable energy.\n\n\"Aurora\" is one of the most ancient districts which developed out of the medieval city walls, north of the historical city centre. It stretches from downtown northern boundaries in \"Corso Regina Margherita\" (an extended and important thoroughfare of Turin) up to \"Corso Vigevano\" and \"Corso Novara\" in the North Side (namely the old excise boundary till the early 20th century); the western boundary is \"Corso Principe Oddone\" (now part of the \"Spina Centrale\" boulevard) and the eastern border is the Dora river.\n\nThe district was named Aurora after the so-called \"cascina Aurora\", an old farmstead lying north of the Dora river, right at the intersection between \"Corso Giulio Cesare\" and \"Corso Emilia\". The farmstead has long been demolished and the area has been converted to office buildings, hosting the Turinese textile company \"Gruppo Finanziario Tessile\" (\"GFT\") headquarters until the early 21st century.\n\nThe historical hub of the district is \"Borgo Dora\" (The \"Dora Borough\"), a small neighbourhood next to \"Porta Palazzo\" and enclosed by \"Corso Regina Margherita\", \"Via Cigna\", the Dora river and \"Corso Giulio Cesare\". Once known as \"Borgo del Pallone\" (literally \"Ball Borough\") or \"Balon\" in Piedmontese dialect (), this neighbourhood is famous for its \"mercatino del Balon\" or simply \"Balon\", the Turinese flea market that opens every Saturday in its tiny and twisted streets. Borgo Dora hosts several remarkable places, such as: \"Piccola Casa della Divina Provvidenza\" (\"Little House of the Divine Providence\"), also known as \"Cottolengo\", a well-known charitable organization which has been operating for almost 200 years in the city; \"Arsenale della Pace\" (\"Arsenal of Peace\"), a former weapons factory that currently hosts the headquarters of \"SERMIG\" (\"Servizio Missionario Giovani\"), a nonprofit association which assists poor and homeless people; \"Caserma Cavalli\" (\"Cavalli Barracks\"), one of the most representative buildings of the district, a former barracks topped by a clock tower which now hosts \"Scuola Holden\", a storytelling and performing arts school; the evocative \"Cortile del Maglio\" (\"Mallet Courtyard\"), a covered pedestrian area featuring bars and clubs. Across from Cortile del Maglio and Arsenale della Pace stands a wide pedestrian area which features a hot air balloon, a clear allusion to the neighbourhood's old name \"Balon\": recently installed, the balloon is open to public which can now take an interesting view of the city from this new high observation point.\n\nRight at the borders of Borgo Dora stands part of \"Porta Palazzo\" open market which hosts the New Exhibition Hall, designed by the Italian architect Massimiliano Fuksas. The building has replaced the \"Clothes Market\", one of the four covered pavilions of Porta Palazzo market, but unfortunately this glass green-shaded building has been highly criticized because of its lack of usability for commercial activities, albeit an example of contemporary architecture.\n\nAnother interesting building at the borders of the neighbourhood is Porta Milano (a.k.a. \"stazione della Ciriè-Lanzo\"), a former 19th century railway station that marked the terminus of Ciriè-Lanzo railway line until the 1980s. To this day, the station is no longer in use as well as the rails up to \"Piazza Baldissera\". The station building was recently renovated and now hosts some old locomotives, even though it is not open to the public. Unfortunately, the old rails crossing the district are totally disused and neglected, adding decay to the whole area.\n\nBorgo Dora, as many other pockets of Aurora, is characterized by the marked multi-ethnicity of its population, being home to a large community of immigrants from emerging countries.\n\nWest of Borgo Dora stands \"Rione Valdocco\" (\"Valdocco neighbourhood\"), enclosed by \"Via Cigna\", \"Corso Regina Margherita\", \"Corso Principe Oddone\" and the Dora river. This neighbourhood hosts the significant architecture of \"Santuario di Maria Ausiliatrice\" (\"Maria Ausiliatrice Sanctuary\") in the homonymous square and behind the church stands \"San Pietro in Vincoli\" old cemetery.\n\nOverall, the main thoroughfares of the West side of Aurora are \"Via Cigna\", which crosses the district from North to South, \"Corso Vercelli\", a historical avenue starting north of the Dora river, and \"Corso Principe Oddone\", part of the long \"Spina Centrale\" boulevard that will be built over the undergrounded Turin-Milan railway. However, the Spina Centrale project is proceeding slowly because of the lack of funds and the boulevard is still occupied by a large worksite along its span. Once completed, Aurora district will be connected to Eastern \"San Donato\", thanks to a better connection among the roads of the two adjacent districts (i.e. \"Corso Ciriè\" will continue in \"Corso Gamba\" and \"Strada del Fortino\" in \"Corso Rosai\").\n\nAs for the rest of Aurora, the district is crossed by an important thoroughfare named \"Corso Giulio Cesare\", a long boulevard that extends from Porta Palazzo up to Turin-Trieste motorway entrance in the Northern urban fringe of Turin. Other significant roads are \"Corso Palermo\", \"Via Bologna\" and \"Corso Regio Parco\", mostly in the East side of Aurora which is known as \"Borgo Rossini\" (\"Rossini Borough\"). Albeit not a road, the Dora river is also a significant element for the whole district, since it completely crosses it from West to East.\n\nThe area north of the river features a mix of old residential buildings and remains of former factories and facilities from the 20th century. An example are the remains of FIAT \"Officine Grandi Motori\" (\"OGM\") in Corso Vigevano, an old factory that produced big industrial and automotive Diesel engines, a sort of symbol of the industrial history of Turin. Another disused facility is \"Astanteria Martini\" (\"Martini Emergency Department\") in Via Cigna, a former emergency department from the 1920s which has been lying vacant since long.\n\nAs for the old residential buildings of the area, this part of Aurora hosts the oldest public housing block of the city, built by \"Istituto Autonomo Case Popolari\" (\"IACP\") in 1908 in lieu of an old dilapidated small farm once known as \"Chiabotto delle Merle\".\n\nDespite its run down look, the famous Lavazza coffee company, along with \"IAAD\" School of Design, chose this part of the city as the location for their new headquarters, which will be built in a contemporary building dubbed \"Nuvola\" (\"Cloud\") right at the borders of \"Borgo Rossini\". Designed by the architect Gino Zucchi, this project is still a work in progress but excavations in the area revealed the remains of a medieval cemetery and an early Christian basilica; these findings will be preserved and will be shown to the public.\n\n\"Borgo Rossini\" hosts a number of businesses, for instance the \"Robe di Kappa\" flagship store (Kappa is a noted Italian sportswear brand founded in Turin) and the \"Cineporto\" (\"Cineport\") a.k.a. \"La Casa dei Produttori\" (\"The Filmmakers' House\", which hosts the \"Turin Piedmont Film Commission Foundation\").\n\n\"Vanchiglia\" is bordered by \"Corso San Maurizio, Corso Regio Parco\" and the Po river, crossed also by the Dora Riparia river and by two big avenues, \"Corso Regina Margherita\" and \"Corso Tortona\".\n\n\"Borgo Vanchiglia\" is the historical district: a little triangle next to downtown, situated between \"Corso San Maurizio, Corso Regina Margherita\" and the Po river. The district is quite popular nowadays because being quite closer to the heart of Turin nightlife \"Piazza Vittorio Veneto,\" many bars and restaurants opened recently in this area. However, Vanchiglia also includes the area called \"Vanchiglietta\", north of \"Borgo Vanchiglia\".\n\nNotable church in \"Borgo Vanchiglia\" is the French neo-Gothic \"Chiesa di Santa Giulia\" situated into \"Piazza Santa Giulia\".\n\nA notable and unusual building in the area is the so-called \"Fetta di Polenta\" (literally: \"polenta slice\"), formerly known as \"Casa Scaccabarozzi.\" This building is located at the intersection of \"Corso San Maurizio\" and \"Via Giulia di Barolo\", and it is one of the most peculiar examples of Turin architecture: a thin trapezoid 27 meters wide on \"Via Giulia Di Barolo\", 5 meters on \"Corso San Maurizio\" and just 0.70 meters wide on the topposite end. It was designed in 1840 by Alessandro Antonelli for his wife, Francesca Scaccabarozzi, probably because of a bet. The curious name comes from the shape of the palace, which resembles a \"slice of polenta\", and also because it is painted with an ocher color.\n\nIn the surroundings, in \"Via Vanchiglia 8\", (although in downtown and not really in \"Vanchiglia\" anymore) there is another trapezoid house, albeit with less extreme design: similarly, this building is nicknamed \"Fetta di Formaggio\" (cheese slice), built in 1832 for the rich \"Marchese Birago di Vische\" by the architect \"Antonio Talentino\".\n\nOther notable buildings are the town public baths, eclectic building built in 1905 (\"Corso Regina Margherita\" crossing \"Via Vanchiglia\"), and the\"Teatro della Caduta\" theatre, opened in 2003 in \"Via Michele Buniva 23\", which with its 45 seats is the smallest theater in Turin and among the smallest theatres in Europe.\n\nIn Corso Regina Margherita, another notable building is the former \"Opera pia Reynero\", a charitable organization. The building was built in 1892. Being abandoned for a long time after it closed in 1996, it was then occupied by the Askatasuna Social Center, a non-profit anarchic organization, hosting since then various activities such as concerts, dinners, seminars and homeless solidarity initiatives.\n\nNorth of \"Corso Regina Margherita\", district is losing the flavour and architecture typical of Turin downtown, cause a significant portion of the district was formerly occupied by factories, nowadays partially abandoned or replaced by modern buildings. A significant example was the area occupied by gas companies between Corso Regina Margherita and the Dora river, which were partially demolished to make place to the new modern Faculty of Law building (Campus \"Luigi Einaudi\"), designed by the architect Norman Foster. This building was classified by the American television company CNN among the 10 most spectacular university buildings in the world. In the campus courtyard, a large wood statue representig a bull (symbol of Turin) has been erected by Mario Ceroli. The area hosts also a student campus.\n\nNext to the campus, a new cycling and pedestrian bridge on the Dora river was opened on 16 April 2010, linking the campus area to \"Corso Verona.\" Bridge is entitled to the architect \"Franco Mellano\".\n\n\"Parco Colletta\" is a big park area touched by the two rivers of the district, which also hosts some sport facilities, mainly football fields and a swimming pool.\n\nDistrict is completed by the \"Cimitero Monumentale\" cemetery. This huge complex (formerly known as \"Cimitero Generale\") is the largest cemetery in Turin, and among the first in Italy for the number of buried people (over 400,000). It is located close to the \"Colletta\" park. The ancient part of the cemetery rises from the main entrance of Corso Novara with his octagonal shape. It contains numerous historical tombs and 12 km of arcades, enriched by artistic sculptures (that's why is called \"monumental cemetery\"). Over the years there have been subsequent extensions of the central historical body in the direction of the Colletta park. In the cemetery there is a crematory temple built in 1882, the second largest in Italy after that of Milan one.\n\nThe Santuario della Consolata, a sanctuary much frequented by pilgrims, stands on the site of the 10th-century Monastery of St. Andrew, and is a work by Guarini. It was sumptuously restored in 1903. Outside the city are: the Basilica of Our Lady, Help of Christians built by St. John Bosco, the Gran Madre built in 1818 on occasion of the return of King Victor Emmanuel I of Sardinia and Santa Maria del Monte (1583) on Monte dei Cappuccini.\n\nIn the hills overlooking the city, the Basilica of Superga provides a view of Turin against a backdrop of the snow-capped Alps. The basilica holds the tombs of many of the dukes of Savoy, as well as many of the kings of Sardinia. Superga can be reached by means of the Superga Rack Railway from Sassi suburb. The Basilica of Superga was built by Amadeus II of Savoy as an ex voto for the liberation of Turin (1706), and served as a royal mausoleum since 1772.\n\nThe most popular park in the city is Parco del Valentino. In 1961, during the celebrations of \"Italia61\" (Italian unification centenary), an important international exhibition (\"FLOR61: Flowers of the world in Turin\") took place in the park with 800 exhibitors from 19 countries. For the occasion the plan for the new lighting of the park, along with its fountains and paths, was assigned to Guido Chiarelli, the head engineer at the city hall.\n\nOther large parks are \"Parco della Pellerina\", \"Parco Colletta\", \"Parco Rignon\", \"Parco Colonnetti\" and the University botanical gardens. Around the city, there are several other parks, such as La Mandria Regional Park and the Parco della Palazzina di Caccia di Stupinigi, once hunting grounds of the Savoy, and those situated on the hill of Turin. Many parks are smaller, located in the various districts: there is also a total of 240 playgrounds in these parks. In the early 1960s, mayor Amedeo Peyron had the first garden in Italy with games for children inaugurated. According to a Legambiente report from 2007, Turin is the first Italian city as far as structures and policies on childcare are concerned. One of the most famous parks featuring a children's playground is \"Parco della Tesoriera\", which is also home to \"Andrea della Corte Municipal Music Library\"; this facility is housed in a villa built in 1715 and was once the Royal Treasurer's residence. The park is located in Parella suburb (Turin's West Side) and it plays host to various concerts in summer.\n\nRosa Vercellana, commonly known as \"Rosina\" and, in Piedmontese as \"La Bela Rosin\" (\"the beautiful Rosin\"), was the mistress and later wife of King Victor Emmanuel II. She was made Countess of Mirafiori and Fontanafredda, but never Queen of Italy. As the Savoy family refused to allow her to be buried next to her husband in the Pantheon, her children had a mausoleum built for her in a similar form and on a smaller scale in Turin, next to the road to the Castello di Mirafiori. The circular copper-domed neoclassical monument, surmounted by a Latin cross and surrounded by a large park, was designed by Angelo Dimezzi and completed in 1888.\n\nIn 2009, the city proper had a population of about 910,000, which is a significant increase on the 2001 census figure. This result is due to a growing immigration from Southern Italy and abroad. Approximately 13.5 per cent (122.946) of the population is composed of foreigners, the largest numbers coming from Romania (51,017), Morocco (22,511), Albania (9,165), China (5,483), and Moldova (3,417). Like many Northern Italian cities, there is a large proportion of pensioners in comparison to youth. Around 18 per cent of the population is under 20 years of age, while 22 per cent is over 65. The population of the Turin urban area totals 1.7 million inhabitants, ranking fourth in Italy, while the Turin metropolitan area has a population of 2.2 million inhabitants. The median age is 43.7.\n\nTurin is a major automotive and aerospace centre, home of Fiat (Fabbrica Italiana Automobili Torino; Turin Italian Automobiles Factory), part of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles group, the sixth largest automotive company in the world.\nIn 2008 the city generated a GDP of $68 billion, ranking as the world's 78th richest city by purchasing power, and 16th in Europe, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. The city has been ranked in 2010 by Globalization and World Cities Research Network as a Gamma level city.\n\nOther companies operating in Turin are Maserati, Lancia, Alfa Romeo, Iveco, Pininfarina, Bertone, Sparco, Italdesign Giugiaro, General Motors, New Holland, Comau, Magneti Marelli,\nGraziano Oerlikon, Ghia, Fioravanti (automotive), Rai (national broadcasting company), Banca Intermobiliare, Intesa Sanpaolo, Reale Mutua (finance), Invicta, Kappa, Superga (fashion), Ferrero, Lavazza, Martini & Rossi (food & beverage), Alpitour (hospitality and tourism)\n\nThe city is also well known for its aerospace industry Alenia Aeronautica, Thales Alenia Space and Avio. The International Space Station modules Harmony, Columbus, Tranquility, as well as the Cupola and all MPLMs were produced in Turin. The future European launcher projects beyond Ariane 5 will also be managed from Turin by the new NGL company, a subsidiary of EADS (70%) and Aircraft Division of Leonardo (30%).\n\nTurin, as the former capital of the Kingdom of Sardinia and the Kingdom of Italy, is home of the Savoy Residences. In addition to the 17th-century Royal Palace, built for Madama Reale Christine Marie of France (the official residence of the Savoys until 1865) there are many palaces, residences and castles in the city centre and in the surrounding towns. Turin is home to Palazzo Chiablese, the Royal Armoury, the Royal Library, Palazzo Madama, Palazzo Carignano, Villa della Regina, and the Valentino Castle. The complex of the Residences of the Royal House of Savoy in Turin and in the nearby cities of Rivoli, Moncalieri, Venaria Reale, Agliè, Racconigi, Stupinigi, Pollenzo and Govone was declared a World Heritage Sites by UNESCO in 1997. In recent years, Turin has become an increasingly popular tourist destination, ranking 203rd in the world and 10th in Italy in 2008, with about 240,000 international arrivals.\n\nThe Egyptian Museum of Turin specialises in archaeology and anthropology, in particular the Art of Ancient Egypt. It is home to what is regarded as one of the largest collections of Egyptian antiquities outside of Egypt. In 2006 it received more than 500,000 visitors. The Museum of Oriental Art houses one of the most important Asian art collections in Italy.\n\nOther museums include the National Museum of Cinema, the Museo Nazionale dell'Automobile, the Museum of Human Anatomy Luigi Rolando, the Museo delle Marionette (puppet museum) and the Museo Nazionale della Montagna (National Museum of the Mountains).\n\nThe city is home to the well-known Shroud of Turin: a linen cloth bearing the image of a man who appears to have suffered physical trauma in a manner consistent with crucifixion. It is kept in the royal chapel of the Cathedral of Saint John the Baptist in the city centre. The origins of the shroud and its image are still the subject of intense debate among scientists, theologians, historians and researchers. It is popularly believed to be a depiction of Jesus Christ, however this matter is still controversial, as there seems to be a sufficient amount of historical and scientific evidence supporting the idea that it is, or is not, the Holy Face of Jesus. Nonetheless, it is a symbol of religious devotion and is one of the city's main symbols and tourist attractions.\n\nAfter it had been little more than a town for a long time, in 1559 the Duke Emmanuel Philibert of Savoy made Turin the capital of his domains. The Duke had ambition to transform the city into a major artistic and cultural capital, and in the following centuries numerous artists were to work at the Savoy court, especially architects and planners like Carlo di Castellamonte and his son Amedeo, Guarino Guarini and, in the 18th century, Filippo Juvarra and Benedetto Alfieri.\nAs for the painting and the visual arts, Turin became a point of reference, especially in the 20th century. In the 1920s, the painter Felice Casorati inspired a number of students called The group of six of Turin and these included Carlo Levi, Henry Paolucci, Gigi Chessa, Francis Menzio, Nicola Galante and Jessie Boswell. Artists born in Turin include the sculptor Umberto Mastroianni and the architect Carlo Mollino. Between the 1960s and the 1970s, the international centre of Turin (Arte Povera), the presence in the city of artists like Alighiero Boetti, Mario Merz, Giuseppe Penone, Piero Gilardi and Michelangelo Pistoletto. In those years there was a strong artistic influence of designer Armando Testa. Artists currently operating in the city include Ugo Nespolo and Carol Rama.\n\nOne of these was Teatro Regio di Torino where Puccini premiered his \"La Bohème\" in 1896. It burned down in 1936 and was rebuilt after WW II.\n\nA literary centre for many centuries, Turin began to attract writers only after the establishment of the court of the Dukes of Savoy. One of the most famous writers of the 17th century was Giambattista Marino, which in 1608 moved to the court of Charles Emmanuel I. Marino suffered an assassination attempt by a rival, Gaspare Murtola, and was later imprisoned for a year because of gossip that he had said and written against the duke. Perhaps, because of this, in 1615 Marino left Turin and moved to France.\n\nThe main literary figures during the Baroque age in Turin were Emanuele Tesauro and Alessandro Tassoni. In the next century Torino hosted the poet Vittorio Alfieri from Asti for a while. The situation was very different in the 19th century, especially since the city became a point of reference for Italian unification and, subsequently, the capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Indeed, in those years Tommaseo, Settembrini and John Meadows resided in the city. A major literary and cultural woman of that time was Olimpia Savio. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Turin was home to writers such as Guido Gozzano, Edmondo De Amicis, Emilio Salgari and Dino Segre, the latter known by the pseudonym of Pitigrilli.\n\nTurin had a very important role in Italian literature after World War II. For the publishing house founded by Giulio Einaudi worked figures such as Cesare Pavese, Italo Calvino, Vitaliano Brancati, Primo Levi, Natalia Ginzburg, Fernanda Pivano, Beppe Fenoglio, Carlo Fruttero and Franco Lucentini. In more recent years, writers active in the city are Giovanni Arpino, Nico Orengo, Giuseppe Culicchia, Margherita Oggero, Laura Mancinelli, Alessandra Montrucchio, Alessandro Perissinotto, Guido Quartz, Piero Soria and Alessandro Baricco. Baricco was also among the founders of the Scuola Holden, dedicated to writing techniques teaching.\n\nIn the local Piedmontese language has a literary tradition, with names such as Nicoletto da Torino, Ignas Isler, author of epic poems, and Eduard Calv.\n\nAfter Alexandria, Madrid, New Delhi, Antwerp and Montreal, Turin was chosen by UNESCO as World Book Capital for the year 2006. The International Book Fair is one of the most important fairs of its kind in Europe.\nTurin is home to one of Italy's principal national newspapers, \"La Stampa\", and the sports daily newspaper \"Tuttosport\".\nThe city is also served by other publications such as the Turin editions of \"La Repubblica\", \"il Giornale\", \"Leggo\", \"City\", \"Metro\" and \"E Polis\".\nRAI has had a production centre in Turin since 1954.\n\nThe city has a rich sporting heritage as the home to two historically significant football teams: Juventus F.C. (founded in 1897) and Torino F.C. (founded in 1906). Juventus has the larger fan base, especially all over Italy and worldwide, while Torino enjoys a greater support in the city itself. The two clubs contest the oldest derby in Italy, the \"Derby della Mole\" or the Turin derby.\n\nJuventus is Italy's most successful football club and one of the most laureated in the world. It ranks joint eighth in the list of the world's clubs with the most official international titles (fourth between European clubs). and was the first in association football history — remaining the only one in the world () — to have won all possible official continental competitions and the world title. Juventus' owned ground, the Juventus Stadium, was inaugurated in 2011.\nThe Juventus Stadium hosted the 2014 UEFA Europa League Final. This was the first time the city hosted a seasonal UEFA club competition's single-match final.\n\nTorino F.C. was founded by the union of one of the oldest football teams in Turin, Football Club Torinese (founded in 1894), with breakaways from Juventus and was the most successful team, called \"Grande Torino\", in the Serie A during the 1940s. In 1949, in the Superga air disaster, a plane carrying almost the whole team crashed into the Basilica of Superga in the Turin hills.\nTorino currently plays its home games at the Stadio Olimpico \"Grande Torino\", named after the team of the 1940s, which was the host stadiums for the 1934 FIFA World Cup and the venue of the XX Winter Olympics; moreover the team recently rebuilt the historic Stadio Filadelfia, used for games of the youth teams and trainings of the first squad, and seat of the team museum.\n\nThe city hosted the final stages of the EuroBasket 1979. The most important basketball club team is the Auxilium Torino, refounded in 2009, playing in the Italian LBA. In 2018 Auxilium Torino went to win its first Italian Basketball Cup ever.\n\nTurin hosted the 2006 Winter Olympics in February 2006. Turin is the largest city to have ever hosted a Winter Olympics, and was the largest metropolitan area to host them at the time.\n\nThe City was awarded with the title of European Capital of Sport 2015. The candidature sees the City strongly committed to increasing sports activities.\n\nTurin is the Italian city where film chromatography was first established. As such, it forms the birthplace of Italian cinema. Because of its historic, geographical and cultural proximity to France, Italian filmmakers were naturally influenced by French cinema and the Lumière brothers. The first Italian cinema screening occurred in Turin in March 1896. In November 1896, Italian filmmakers performed the first cinema screening of a film before a fee-paying audience.\n\nBy the start of the 20th century (especially after 1907), a number of the first Italian films were aired in Turin. Examples include Giovanni Pastrone \"Cabiria\", in 1914, one of the first blockbusters in history.\n\nThe Turin-based company Ambrosio Film, established in 1906 by Arturo Ambrosio, was one of the leading forces in Italian cinema and boosted the importance of the city as a filmmaking destination. The company, noted in particular for its historical epics, produced a large number of films until it was dissolved in 1924.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 30s, Turin hosted a number of film productions and major film studios (\"film houses\"), such as the Itala film, Aquila and Fert Studios. Today their heritage is located in the modern Lumiq Studios and Virtual Reality Multi Media Spa Turin's prominence in Italian film continued until 1937, the year Cinecittà was inaugurated in Rome.\n\nAfter World War II, the cinematic scene in Turin continued to thrive. 1956 saw the opening of the National Museum of Cinema, first housed in the Palazzo Chiablese and then, from 2000, in the imposing headquarters of the Mole Antonelliana. In 1982 the film critic Gianni Rondolino created Festival Internazionale Cinema Giovani, which later became the Torino Film Festival.\n\nToday Turin is one of the main cinematographic and television centres in Italy, thanks to the role of the Turin Film Commission that reports the production of many feature films, soap operas and commercials.\n\nTurin streets were the locations where Audrey Hepburn played \"War and Peace\", Michael Caine drove a Mini Cooper in \"The Italian Job\", Claudio Bisio becomes the president of the Italian Republic, Carlo Verdone set his version of \"Cinderella\", Marco Tullio Giordana shot \"\", Woody Allen shot \"Hannah and Her Sisters\", Cate Blanchett played \"Heaven\", Giovanna Mezzogiorno \"Vincere\", Marcello Mastroianni and Jacqueline Bisset \"The Sunday Woman\", and Harvey Keitel \"The Stone Merchant\". Turin also became the capital of the tsar for \"The Demons of St. Petersberg\".\n\nTurin chocolate firms, aside from many kinds of chocolate, produce a typical chocolate called \"Gianduiotto\", named after Gianduja, a local Commedia dell'arte mask. Moreover, the city is also known for the so-called \"bicerin\", a traditional hot drink made of espresso, drinking chocolate and whole milk served layered in a small rounded glass. Every year Turin organizes \"CioccolaTÒ\", a two-week chocolate festival run with the main Piedmontese chocolate producers, such as Caffarel, Streglio, Venchi and others, as well as some big international companies, such as Lindt & Sprüngli.\n\nAs for snack food, the now popular tramezzini were first served in a historic café of downtown Turin, namely \"Caffè Mulassano\", where they were devised in 1925 as an alternative to English tea sandwiches. In recent years, another trademark drink of the city is \"MoleCola\", an Italian Coca-Cola that entered production in 2012 and quickly spread both in Italy and outside its native country.\n\nLocal cuisine also features a particular type of pizza, so-called \"pizza al padellino\" or \"pizza al tegamino\", which is basically a small-sized, thick-crust and deep-dish pizza typically served in several Turin pizza places.\n\nSince the mid-1980s, Piedmont has also benefited from the start of the Slow Food movement and Terra Madre, events that have highlighted the rich agricultural and vinicultural value of the Po valley and northern Italy.\n\nTurin is home to one of Italy's oldest universities, the University of Turin, including its affiliated Collegio Carlo Alberto, which ranks among the best universities in the country. Another established university in the city is the Polytechnic University of Turin, ranking among Top 50 universities in the world and #1 in Italy in the fields of engineering, technology and computer science (\"Academic Ranking of World Universities\" published by Shanghai Jiao Tong University). Turin also hosts the United Nations System Staff College, the European Training Foundation, and a campus of the ESCP Europe business school, ranked among the 10 best business schools in Europe. Moreover, the city hosts three small English language post-secondary institutions: St. John International University, International University College of Turin, and the Turin School of Development, as well as Buddies Elementary School.\n\nThe city currently has a large number of rail and road work sites. Although this activity has increased as a result of the 2006 Winter Olympics, parts of it had long been planned. Some of the work sites deal with general roadworks to improve traffic flow, such as underpasses and flyovers, but two projects are of major importance and will radically change the shape of the city.\n\nOne is the \"Spina Centrale\" (\"Central Spine\") project which includes the doubling of a major railway crossing the city, the Turin-Milan railway locally known as \"Passante Ferroviario di Torino\" (\"Turin Railway Bypass\"). The railroad previously ran in a trench, which will now be covered by a major boulevard running from North to South of Turin, in a central position along the city. Porta Susa, on this section, will become Turin's main station to substitute the terminus of Porta Nuova with a through station. Other important stations are Stura, Rebaudengo, Lingotto and Madonna di Campagna railway stations, though not all of them belong to the layout of the Spina Centrale.\n\nThe other major project is the construction of a subway line based on the VAL system, known as Metrotorino. This project is expected to continue for years and to cover a larger part of the city, but its first phase was finished in time for the 2006 Olympic Games, inaugurated on 4 February 2006 and opened to the public the day after. The first leg of the subway system linked the nearby town of Collegno with Porta Susa in Turin's city centre. On 4 October 2007 the line was extended to Porta Nuova and then, in March 2011, to Lingotto. A new extension of the so-called \"Linea 1\" (\"Line 1\") is expected in the near future, reaching both Rivoli (up to Cascine Vica hamlet) in the Western belt of Turin and \"Piazza Bengasi\" in the Southeast side of the city. Furthermore, a \"Linea 2\" is in the pipeline that will connect the south-western district of Mirafiori with Barriera di Milano in the north end. In June 2018, the project entered the public consultation phase with the proposed list of 23 stations published on the city’s website. \nThe main street in the city centre, \"Via Roma\", runs atop a tunnel built during the fascist era (when \"Via Roma\" itself was totally refurbished and took on its present-day aspect). The tunnel was supposed to host the underground line but it is now used as an underground car park. A project to build an underground system was ready in the 1970s, with government funding for it and for similar projects in Milan and Rome. Whilst the other two cities went ahead with the projects, Turin's local government led by mayor Diego Novelli shelved the proposal as it believed it to be too costly and unnecessary.\n\nThe city has an international airport known as Caselle International Airport Sandro Pertini (TRN), located in Caselle Torinese, about from the centre of Turin and connected to the city by a railway service (from Dora Station) and a bus service (from Porta Nuova and Porta Susa railway stations).\n\nThe metropolitan area is served by Turin metropolitan railway service.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Turin, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 65 min. 14.% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 14 min, while 19% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 5.9 km, while 9% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nTurin is twinned with:\nCollaboration accords include:\nThe 6th district (arrondissement ) of Turin is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28924333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28924333", "title": "Valentin Abecia", "text": "Valentin Abecia\n\nValentín Abecia Baldivieso (October 9,1925 – July 28, 2010) was a Bolivian lawyer, historian, writer and diplomat. He was Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1989–1990 and contributed to the process of institutionalization of the Foreign Ministry . He was the author of the three volume bibliographical work \"The History of Bolivia in International Relations\". He was the founder and chairman of the Cultural Foundation of the Central Bank of Bolivia, as well as the president of the Bolivian Academy of History and the Academia Nacional de Ciencias de Bolivia. Abecia also founded the literary group, \"Gesta Barbara\".\n\nHe was born in Potosí and was retired for several years before his death in La Paz in 2010.\n\nAbecia Baldivieso studied law at the UMSA.and was Senator, Ambassador, president of the Academies of History and Sciences of Bolivia.On his experience with 'Gesta Bárbara', the author wrote in his memoirs: \"... many years have passed and no one can erase that flutter of the young, rebellious, iconoclastic and vertical spirit of those who raised wings, especially the poetry that, as always in the new group manifestation, it became a revolution of ideas ... “\n"}
{"id": "3008683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3008683", "title": "Visigothic art and architecture", "text": "Visigothic art and architecture\n\nThe Visigoths entered Hispania (modern Spain and Portugal) in 415, and they rose to be the dominant people there until the Moorish invasion of 711 brought their kingdom to an end.\n\nThis period in Iberian art is dominated by their style. Visigothic art is generally considered in the English-speaking world to be a strain of Migration art, while the Portuguese and Spanish-speaking worlds generally classify it as Pre-Romanesque.\n\nBranches of Visigothic art include their architecture, their crafts (especially jewellery), and even their script.\n\nThe only remaining examples of their architecture from the 6th century are the church of San Cugat del Vallés in Barcelona, the hermitage and church of Santa Maria de Lara in Burgos, Saint Frutuoso Chapel in (Braga), the church of São Gião in (Nazaré) and the few remnants of the church at Cabeza de Griego, Cuenca. However, their style developed over the next centuries, though the prime remaining examples of it are mostly rural and often run-down. Some of the characteristics of their architecture are:\n\nExemplars include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6981795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6981795", "title": "Works by J. G. A. Pocock", "text": "Works by J. G. A. Pocock\n\nA scholar of the history of British political discourse, J. G. A. Pocock, the Harry C. Black Chair of History Emeritus at Johns Hopkins University, has enjoyed over 60 years of publication. Now in his tenth decade, he recently concluded \"Barbarism and Religion\", a six-volume study of Edward Gibbon, author of \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\". The first two volumes of \"B&R\" were awarded the American Philosophical Society's \"Jacques Barzun Prize in Cultural History\" for the year 1999.\nIn total, Pocock has published more than 260 articles, essays, and reviews. Below are the main categories of his articles/essays and their constituents. Pocock's many monographs are listed within the main article, \"J. G. A. Pocock: Monographs\".\n\nPocock used many of the following as research and preparation for \"Barbarism and Religion\" :\n\n\n\nPocock is a New Zealand expatriate, but he retains his citizenship and maintains an interest in his country's past, present, and future: \n\n\n\n\n"}
