{"id": "40556040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40556040", "title": "Agrarian socialism", "text": "Agrarian socialism\n\nAgrarian socialism is a political ideology which combines an agrarian way of life with a socialist economic system.\n\nWhen compared to standard socialist systems which are generally urban/industrial and more progressive in terms of social orientation, many agrarian socialist movements have tended to be rural (with an emphasis on decentralization and non-state forms of collective ownership), locally focused, and traditional/conservative.\n\nThe emphasis of agrarian socialists is therefore on control, ownership and utilisation of land rather than other means of production.\n\nA 17th-century movement called the diggers based their ideas on agrarian communism.\n\n The Socialist Revolutionary Party was a major political party in early 20th century Russia and a key player in the Russian Revolution. After the February Revolution of 1917 it shared power with other liberal and democratic socialist forces within the Russian Provisional Government. In November 1917, it won a plurality of the national vote in Russia's first-ever democratic elections (to the Russian Constituent Assembly), but soon split and the remaining faction of this party which remained loyal to Alexander Kerensky was defeated and destroyed by the Bolsheviks in the course of the Russian Civil War and subsequent persecution.\n\nThe party's ideology was built upon the philosophical foundation of Russia's narodnik–Populist movement of the 1860s-70s and its worldview developed primarily by Alexander Herzen and Pyotr Lavrov. After a period of decline and marginalization in the 1880s, the Populist/narodnik school of thought about social change in Russia was revived and substantially modified by a group of writers and activists known as \"neonarodniki\" (neo-Populists), particularly Viktor Chernov. Their main innovation was a renewed dialogue with Marxism and the integration of some of the key Marxist concepts into their thinking and practice. In this way, with the economic spurt and industrialization in Russia in the 1890s, they attempted to broaden their appeal in order to attract the rapidly growing urban workforce to their traditionally peasant-oriented program. The intention was to widen the concept of the 'people' so that it encompassed all elements in the society that were opposed to the Tsarist regime.\n\nThe party's program was both democratic socialist and agrarian socialist in nature; it garnered much support among Russia's rural peasantry, who in particular supported their program of \"land-socialization\" as opposed to the Bolshevik program of land-nationalization—division of land among peasant tenants rather than collectivization in state management. Their policy platform differed from that of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Parties—both Bolshevik and Menshevik—in that it was not officially Marxist (though some of its ideologues considered themselves such); the SRs believed that the 'laboring peasantry', as well as the industrial proletariat, would be the revolutionary class in Russia. Whereas Russian SDs defined class membership in terms of ownership of the means of production, Chernov and other SR theorists defined class membership in terms of extraction of surplus value from labor. On the first definition, small-holding subsistence farmers who do not employ wage labor are, as owners of their land, members of the petty bourgeoisie; on the second definition, they can be grouped with all who provide, rather than purchase, labor-power, and hence with the proletariat as part of the 'laboring class'. Chernov nevertheless considered the proletariat the 'vanguard', with the peasantry forming the 'main body' of the revolutionary army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "356029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356029", "title": "Associate justice", "text": "Associate justice\n\nAssociate justice or associate judge is the title for a member of a judicial panel who is not the chief justice in some jurisdictions. The title \"Associate Justice\" is used for members of the Supreme Court of the United States and some state supreme courts, and for some other courts in Commonwealth of Nations countries, as well as for members of the Supreme Court of the Federated States of Micronesia, a former United States Trust Territory. In other common law jurisdictions, the equivalent position is called \"Puisne Justice\".\n\nIn the United States, judicial panels are non-hierarchical, so an associate judge has the same responsibilities with respect to cases as the chief judge. \n\nAn associate judge usually has fewer or different administrative responsibilities than the chief. On the Supreme Court of the United States, the most junior associate justice (currently Justice Brett Kavanaugh), has the task of answering the door when the Justices are in private conference.\n\nThere are eight Associate Justices on the United States Supreme Court, and three associate justices on the Supreme Court of the Federated States of Micronesia.\n\nThe function of associate justices vary depending on the Court they preside in. In the Australian state of New South Wales, associate justices of the New South Wales Supreme Court hear civil trials and appeals from lower courts amongst other matters . Associate justices can sit either as a single judge or may sit on the New South Wales Court of Appeal.. In New Zealand, associate judges of the High Court of New Zealand supervise preliminary processes in most civil proceedings. associate judges have jurisdiction to deal with such matters as: summary judgment applications, company liquidations, bankruptcy proceedings, and some other types of civil proceedings. In the New Zealand legal system, associate judges were formerly known as masters.\n\n"}
{"id": "32863610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32863610", "title": "Association belge des Consommateurs Test-Achats ASBL v Conseil des ministres", "text": "Association belge des Consommateurs Test-Achats ASBL v Conseil des ministres\n\nAssociation belge des Consommateurs Test-Achats ASBL v Conseil des ministres (2011) C-236/09 is a decision of the European Court of Justice which invalidated a provision of Directive 2004/113/EC of the European Union which permitted the continence of sexual discrimination in the provision of insurance services provided that it was based on \"relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data.\" The practical result of the decision was the prohibition of sexual discrimination in insurance policies.\n\nA Belgian consumer association, Test-Achats, against the Belgian government claiming that the legal measure adopted by the government to transpose the Gender Directive into EU law violated the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Constitutional Court asked the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling on the validity of Article 5(2) of the directive.\n\nOn 1 March 2011 the ECJ ruled in favour of Test-Achats that Article 5(2) was in breach of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and therefore void. However the court ruled that there would be a transitional period to enable insurance companies to comply with the ruling this lasted until the 21 December 2012.\n\nThe ruling means that after the transitional period ended all new insurance contracts entered into in the 27 European Union member states could no longer use gender to determine premiums paid or benefits granted. The ruling benefits male drivers and male purchasers of life insurance, who tend to experience claims more than women in these areas; it will also benefit female purchasers of health insurance who tend to experience health claims more than men and female purchasers of life annuity products, who tend to live longer than men. Naturally it is likely that female drivers and life insurance purchasers, and male health insurance purchasers, will pay more.\n\nThe ruling was welcomed by many as a step forward for gender equality and for ending outdated practices but met with some controversy particularly from United Kingdom conservative politicians who felt the court was overstepping its power and in effect making its own legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38050468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38050468", "title": "Bangladesh National Women Lawyers' Association", "text": "Bangladesh National Women Lawyers' Association\n\nBangladesh National Women Lawyers' Association (বাংলাদেশ জাতীয় মহিলা আইনজীবী সমিতি) is a lawyer's association based in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It was established in 1979. Its main goal is \"to create equal opportunities and equal rights for every woman and child in the country.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8066154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8066154", "title": "Building officials", "text": "Building officials\n\nBuilding officials of developed countries are generally the jurisdictional administrator of building and construction codes, engineering calculation supervision, permits, facilities management, and accepted construction procedures.\n\nIn some jurisdictions building officials act as project engineer or project manager for the chief building official who is the jurisdiction's formally recognized building official. Usual qualifications are a bachelor's degree in Administration, Engineering, or Architecture, or Building Surveying or Construction Management, with an extensive building construction background, and in some instances are licensed as a Professional Engineer or Architect or Building Surveyors or Building Certifiers. Building officials can be certified.\nLaw\n\nAustralian law is governed under individual state laws & territories generally made from state Acts & Regulations governing ...\nQld, NSW, Vic, Tas, South Aust, West Aust, Nth Territory, Aust Capital Territory, various off shore islands & Aust protectorates within the 200 nautical mile limit of the Commonwealth of Australia. \nTown Planning & Development \n\nConcepts of planning & development are primarily approved under state Town Planning Acts & Regulations, which outline the procedures & protocols for various types of projects. \n\nTown Planning is a separate university degree discipline, which is usually guided by the interest of the general community & attempts to solve development problems. \n\nIndividual project concepts are approved under Local Authority Codes which are generally Council Town Planners acting as the preliminary Assessment Authority to issue preliminary development approvals, or state bodies eg Transport, Main Roads, Port or Airport Authorities. \nTown Planners deal with expected community concepts, according to zoning principles ie residential land, high density living, city hubs, farm land, industrial areas, infrastructure, the safety of the natural environment & its natural resources. \nBuilding & Construction\n\nAustralian Building law is governed under individual state laws & territories generally made from state Building Acts & Building Regulations \n\nWithin the state Acts & Regulations, the procedures & protocols of preliminary approvals required are outlined, before a building development permit is issued by the Licensed Building Certifier or Building Assessment Manager for various types of projects. \nThe Acts also detail time frame limitations, registration & licensing body requirements of building professionals, practitioners & trade contractors. Offences & penalties are also gazetted under the Acts for proven non-compliance with minimum requirements. Appeals of development decisions can be undertaken via state tribunals or state Planning Courts. \n\nBuilding officials, or regulators that decide if building applications for construction works can proceed, are called Building Surveyors or Building Certifiers. \n\nThese officials are either employed by Federal, State or Local Government or more commonly in private practice companies. Building Surveying is a tertiary degree qualification & encompasses all aspects of construction from the concept stage to the finished building. \n\nThe Architect, Designer, Builder or Owner engage the Licensed Building Certifier/Building Surveyor as the Building Assessment Manager, to regulate or manage a project, on behalf of the local authority (usually Council), generally after a preliminary approval is required, or to determine that a project meets all the relevant minimum Planning Code requirements, under the Building Certifier's guidance, or as part of a discretionary process. \n\nThe Building Certifier interacts with all professionals & often the Senior trade contractors engaged within the building & inspects the works as they proceed, during mandatory inspection phases of footings, slab, frame, fire separation & final, to ensure compliance with the approved plans, the NCC & relevant Australian Standards. \nBuilding Surveyors or Building Certifiers are licensed by the state they practice in & have 3 different levels. \n\nBuilding Surveyors were first conceived after the Great Fire of London in 1666 in the UK, where their primary focus is the safe construction & use of the building concerning the life-health & safety of the occupants.\nPlumbing Works\n\nPlumbing works are generally approved & inspected at various stages, by the Local Authority (Council) Plumbing Inspectors who have a Hydraulic/Plumbing trade qualification & experience, to ensure public potable water safety, contain the spread waste-water products & regulate responsible ground water discharge.\nLarger infrastructure i.e. dams, pipe line networks, roadway drainage, flood mitigation works, etc, calls for a Civil Engineering background.\nNational Construction Code (NCC)\n\nAll state building acts & regulations refer to the minimum standards required within the Building Code of Australia (BCA), now the National Construction Code (NCC) since 2011, of which there are 3 volumes, which deals with individual aspects of buildings in categorised sections, based on the use (class), size of the building & type of construction, A, B or C, where Type C is the least fire resistant. \n\nVolume 1 - Buildings classes 2 to 9 - larger commercial buildings - ie 2 residential units, 3 motels, 4 caretakers residence in a larger building, 5 office, 6 shop, 7 warehouse, 8 factory, 9 public buildings eg schools, hospitals, etc. \n\nVolume 2 - Buildings classes 1 & 10 - smaller residential buildings ie 1A house, 1B small residential boarding house, 10A carport, 10B swimming pool.\n\nVolume 3 - Plumbing & Drainage - including fire fighting, gas, solar water heating, air con & on site waste water systems - for all buildings & external civil works.\n\nThe NCC is up-graded bi-annually to consider new products, improvements or methods of construction, by senior officials of trade bodies, Institutes of Architects /Engineers / Building Surveyors, state officials & governed by the Australian Building Codes Board (ACBC).\nThe NCC references individual minimum Australian Standards (AS- No.- Year of introduction) for each aspect of the type of contractor's work, or suppliers product, eg the minimum standard for Waterproofing of wet areas uses AS 3740-2004.\n\nIn Australia, the valuation for sale of a project is another discipline of Building Valuer, unlike the UK where the Building Valuer is the Building Surveyor.\nFor more information refer to the ...\n\nAustralian Institute of Building Surveyors (AIBS) ... www.aibs.com.au\n\nNational Construction Code (NCC) ... www.ncc.com.au\n\nStandards Australia ... www.saiglobal.com\n\nAustralian Building Codes Board (ABCB) ... www.abcb.com.au\n\nPlumbing Industry Council (PIC)\n\nSource: Bonafide Building Approvals ... www.bonafideba.com.au\n\nThe government of New Zealand has set up a mediation service to resolve cases of houses that failed watertightness.\nIn the United States, there were three major nonprofit organizations developing building codes for the governing of building constructions, but they have since been merged into one in 1994, the International Code Council (ICC). ICC publishes the International Building Codes, used by most of the jurisdictions within the United States. The former organizations included Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc. (BOCA), International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO), and Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc. (SBCCI).\n\nThere are several other major code publishers in the United States. The Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC) and the Uniform Mechanical Code (UMC) are both written by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, also known as IAPMO, an organization that was established by code officials.\n\nOn May 17, 1926, the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, or IAPMO, began with a mandate “to advance the latest and most improved methods of sanitation; to promote the welfare of and harmony between the owner, the builder, and the craftsman; to accomplish a uniformity in the application of the provisions of the ordinances; and to promulgate the mutual benefit of the members.\" IAPMO also publishes the Uniform Solar Energy and Hydronics Code (USEHC) and Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code (USPSHTC) as part of their family of Uniform Codes.\n\nReference\n\nIn England and Wales building control bodies (BCB) may be of two primary forms, either established under Local Authority control or private bodies (Approved Inspectors). Applicants wishing to carry out work controlled under the Building Act have the choice to select either the local Building Control or an Approved Inspector. However, where local legislation is prevalent the Approved Inspector will be charged with liaising with the relevant local authority body for the necessary approvals.\n\nThe Secretary of State issues guidance in support of the Building Regulations in the form of Approved Documents which are not mandatory. The Building Regulations are functional and therefore designers are free to offer alternative solutions to satisfying the functional requirements. The burden of proof is then placed on the designers to demonstrate that the alternative solution proposed offers a level of performance which satisfies the intent of the functional requirement. There is nothing in the Regulations which imposes a duty on the applicant under those circumstances to use the guidance as a benchmark of performance, although this is of course a route often taken as a way of demonstrating that an alternative approach is of an acceptable standard.\n\nAppeals against decisions made by BCBs are to the Secretary of State who will make a determination after considering all of the facts of a particular case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8521558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8521558", "title": "Case of Mines", "text": "Case of Mines\n\nThe Case of Mines or \"R v Earl of Northumberland\" was decided in 1568. \n\nRather than the usual four judges a full panel of twelve common law senior judges, on appeal, decided “that by the law all mines of gold and silver within the realm, whether they be in the lands of the Queen, or of subjects, belong to the Queen by prerogative, with liberty to dig and carry away the ores thereof, and with other such incidents thereto as are necessary to be used for the getting of the ore.” \n\nThe decision was in the law of England and Wales and was later confirmed by courts to be applicable in the monarch's other realms and dominions. The royalties payable by custom to the UK government have been passed by British statute to the former dominions early in their recognition as dominions.\n\nThe Earl of Northumberland in 1568 was Thomas Percy, 7th Earl of Northumberland. The Queen was Elizabeth I of England.\n\nSome copper miners in Keswick found an admixture of gold in copper mined from lands belonging to the Earl of Northumberland. Due to concerns about revenue and the possibility of a renewed war with Spain, the Queen’s advisers were anxious to claim prerogative rights to the gold. A suit was brought in the Court of Exchequer Chamber and judgment was for the Queen founding the Crown’s right to mine gold or silver.\n\nThe challenge by the Earl of Northumberland was on the ground that the work was within the Royalties granted to his family in a former reign.\n\nTwelve judges decided in favour of the Queen, that,\n\nThe neglect of the Earl and his predecessors to work the minerals during seventy years 'had made that questionable which for ages was out of question', and the prerogative was revoked.\n\nThis illustrates that in theory all gold and silver belongs to the queen, and that most authorities to extract minerals granted have a \"use it, or lose it\" component.\n\nOn 28 May 1568 two mining monopolies were created, the Company of Mineral and Battery Works and the Society of Mines Royal. The effects of the decision were limited by the Mines Royal Act 1690, which removed the monopoly of these two companies. \n\nOne report featured in the later English Reports series. Plowden’s extensive report was published some years after the judgment.\n\nThe case has remained the leading case in New Zealand law on the royal prerogative to the royal metals of gold and silver; by statute all related royalties flow to the government of New Zealand. The case was also the authority on which the controversial Miner's Licences in Australia were introduced at the time of the Australian gold rushes.\n\n"}
{"id": "9575159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9575159", "title": "Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982", "text": "Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982\n\nThe Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 is an Act of the United Kingdom Parliament which makes provision for a wide range of civic government matters.\n\nParts I and II of the Act deal with licensing by local authorities of a range of activities including taxis and private hire cars, second-hand dealers, metal dealers, boat hire, street traders, market operators, public entertainment, indoor sports entertainment and window cleaners.\n\nPart III deals with the control of sex shops.\n\nPart IV sets out a range of public nuisance offences, including soliciting and importuning by prostitutes, urination or defecation in public places, dog fouling, dangerous animals, drunkenness, display, publication etc. of obscene material, obstruction by pedestrians, ticket touting, causing annoyance by playing of instruments, radios &c. Sections 52 and 52A create offences of possession, making and distribution etc. of indecent images of children.\n\nPart V deals with public processions.\n\nPart VI, VII and VIIA deal with lost or abandoned property, and the property of people taken into police custody.\n\nPart VIII deals with local authorities' powers as regards buildings in need of maintenance and maintenance of common stairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "18564127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18564127", "title": "Collective punishment", "text": "Collective punishment\n\nCollective punishment is a form of retaliation whereby a suspected perpetrator's family members, friends, acquaintances, sect, neighbors or entire ethnic group is targeted. The punished group may often have no direct association with the other individuals or groups, or direct control over their actions. In times of war and armed conflict, collective punishment has resulted in atrocities, and is a violation of the laws of war and the Geneva Conventions. Historically, occupying powers have used collective punishment to retaliate against and deter attacks on their forces by Resistance movements (such as destroying entire towns and villages which were believed to have harboured or aided such resistance movements).\n\nDuring the Qin Dynasty of China (221–207 BC), emperor Qin Shi Huang upheld his rule by enforcing strict laws, with the most serious of crimes, such as treason, punishable by what is known as nine familial exterminations – this involved the execution of the perpetrator's entire families as well as the perpetrators themselves, where the members are categorized into nine groups. The process of familial extermination was carried on by subsequent Chinese dynasties for serious crimes, with a significant number of recorded sentences during the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644), until the punishment was officially repealed by the government of the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912) in 1905.\n\nIn the Tithing, groups of ten men swearing the Frankpledge, the compulsory sharing of responsibility and punishment, was in use at least since the time of Alfred the Great in the 9th century. The Statute of Winchester of 1285 provided that \"the whole hundred … shall be answerable\" for any theft or robbery.\n\nDuring the Ming dynasty of China, 16 palace women attempted to assassinate the Jiajing Emperor. All were sentenced to death by slow slicing. Ten members of the women's families were also beheaded, while a further 20 were enslaved and gifted to ministers.\n\nThe Intolerable Acts were seen as a collective punishment of Massachusetts for the Boston Tea Party.\n\nThe principle of collective punishment was laid out by Union General William Tecumseh Sherman in his Special Field Order 120, November 9, 1864, which laid out the rules for his \"March to the sea\" in the American Civil War:\n\nV. To army corps commanders alone is entrusted the power to destroy mills, houses, cotton-gins, etc..., and for them this general principle is laid down: In districts and neighborhoods where the army is unmolested, no destruction of such property should be permitted; but should guerrillas or bushwhackers molest our march, or should the inhabitants burn bridges, obstruct roads, or otherwise manifest local hostility, then army commanders should order and enforce a devastation more or less relentless according to the measure of such hostility.\n\nBritish forces in the Boer Wars and the Germans in the Franco-Prussian War justified such actions as being in accord with the laws of war then in force.\n\nIn 1906, 167 black U.S. soldiers stationed in Brownsville, Texas, were dishonorably discharged on orders of President Theodore Roosevelt in response to the shooting of two white citizens in the middle of the night of August 13, 1906. One man was killed and the other, a police lieutenant, was injured and it was never discovered who the shooter(s) were, though they were presumed to have been members of the nearby Fort Brown. The soldiers of Companies Bravo, Charlie, and Delta of the 25th infantry regiment, many of whom served in the Philippines and Cuba during America's war with Spain, were punished for the crime collectively and were denied army pensions.\n\nDuring the First World War, the German invasion of Belgium was marked by numerous acts of collective punishment, in response to real or perceived acts of resistance. Some 6,000 civilians were killed, and 25,000 homes burned during this period.\n\nDuring the 1917 uprising against Nicholas II during World War I, many of Nicholas' distant relatives in Russia were killed\nby revolutionaries during that year's uprising. In July 1918, less than a year after the October revolution that overthrew Alexander Kerensky's Russian Provisional Government and early in the Russian Civil War that began shortly afterwards, Nicholas II and his immediate family and remaining servants were shot by their captors.\n\nDuring the Nazi occupation of Poland, the Germans applied collective responsibility: any kind of help given to a person of Jewish faith or origin was punishable by death, and that not only for the rescuers themselves but also for their families. This was widely publicized by the Germans. During the occupation, for every German killed by a Pole, 100–400 Poles were shot in retribution. Communities were held collectively responsible for the purported Polish counter-attacks against the invading German troops. Mass executions of roundup (pol: \"łapanka\") hostages were conducted every single day during the Wehrmacht advance across Poland in September 1939 and thereafter. Poland lost over 5 million citizens during the occupation by Nazi Germany, mostly civilians.\n\nGermany also applied collective punishment elsewhere. In the summer of 1941, Nazi troops executed several hundred people in Kondomari, Alikianos, Kandanos and elsewhere in retaliation for the participation of Cretan civilians in the Battle of Crete. During its occupation by the Axis from 1941 to 1944, Greece suffered a remarkably high death toll due to reprisals against the support and involvement of the population in the Resistance. Large-scale massacres were carried out in places such as Domeniko, Kommeno, Viannos, Drakeia, Kalavryta, Mesovouno, Distomo, Kedros, Chortiatis and many others.\n\nIn Yugoslavia (now Serbia), Nazi troops killed 434 men in three villages near Kragujevac on October 19, 1941 as punishment for previous actions of the Serbian resistance movement. In the next two days, the Nazis also killed more than 13,000 people in Kraljevo, Kragujevac, and Sumarice, including 300 students from Kragujevac First High School. In 1942, the Germans destroyed the village of Lidice, Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic) killing 340 inhabitants as collective punishment or reprisal for that year's assassination of Reinhard Heydrich by nearby commandos (the village Ležáky was also destroyed in retribution). In the French village of Oradour-sur-Glane 642 of its inhabitants – men, women, and children – were slaughtered by the German Waffen-SS in 1944, as were 335 Italians in that same year's Ardeatine massacre in caves outside Rome. In the Dutch village of Putten and the Italian villages of Sant'Anna di Stazzema and Marzabotto, as well as in the Soviet village of Kortelisy (in what is now Ukraine), large-scale reprisal killings were carried out by the Germans. The Massacre of Borovë occurred on July 9, 1943, in the village of Borovë, in southeastern Albania. German forces killed 107 civilians as a reprisal for a partisan attack on a German convoy the days before.\n\nThe expulsion of German speaking population groups after World War II by the Soviet Union, Poland and Czechoslovakia represent one of the greatest examples of collective punishment in terms of the number of victims. The goal was to punish the Germans; the Allies declared them collectively guilty of Nazi war crimes. In the US and UK the ideas of German collective guilt and collective punishment originated not with the US and British people, but on higher policy levels. Not until late in the war did the US public assign collective responsibility to the German people.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the British planned \"'collective punishment' for aiding Reds, rewards and more troops\" in Malaya in 1951. The British used collective punishment as an official policy to suppress the Mau Mau uprising in Kenya in 1952. In 1956, Britain officially used collective punishment in Cyprus in the form of evicting families from their homes and closing shops anywhere British soldiers and police had been murdered, to obtain information about the identities of the attackers. Today, it is considered by most nations contradictory to the modern concept of due process, where each individual receives separate treatment based on their own role(s) in the crime in question. Article 33 of the Fourth Geneva Convention specifically forbids collective punishment.\n\nJoseph Stalin's mass deportations of many nationalities of the USSR to remote regions (including the Chechens, Crimean Tatars, Volga Germans and many others) is an example of officially orchestrated collective punishment.\n\nThe partial removal of potentially trouble-making ethnic groups was a technique used consistently by Stalin during his career: Poles (1939–41 and 1944–45), Romanians (1941 and 1944–53), Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians (1941 and 1945–49), Volga Germans (1941), Chechens, and Ingushes (1944). Shortly before, during and immediately after World War II, Stalin conducted a series of deportations on a huge scale which profoundly affected the ethnic map of the Soviet Union. It is estimated that between 1941 and 1949 nearly 3.3 million were deported to Siberia and the Central Asian republics. By some estimates up to 43% of the resettled population died of diseases and malnutrition.\n\nThe deportations started with Poles from Belarus, Ukraine and European Russia (see Poles in the former Soviet Union) 1932–36. Koreans in the Russian Far East were deported in 1937 (see Deportation of Koreans in the Soviet Union). After the Soviet invasion of Poland following the corresponding German invasion that marked the start of World War II in 1939, the Soviet Union annexed eastern parts (so-called \"Kresy\") of the Second Polish Republic. During 1939–41 1.45 million people inhabiting the region were deported by the Soviet regime, of whom 63% were Poles, and 7% were Jews. The same followed in the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been deported from the Baltic in 1940–1953. 10% of the entire adult Baltic population was deported or sent to labor camps. (see June deportation, Operation Priboi, Soviet deportations from Estonia) Volga Germans and seven (overwhelmingly Turkic or non-Slavic) nationalities of the Crimea and the northern Caucasus were deported: the Crimean Tatars, Kalmyks, Chechens, Ingush, Balkars, Karachays, and Meskhetian Turks. All Crimean Tatars were deported \"en masse\", in a form of collective punishment.\n\nPogroms may be considered examples of unofficial collective punishment which resemble rioting. About 14 million East Germans were moved out of what was Germany; three million of them died.\n\nBlack January was a massacre of civilians committed by the Red Army in the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic in 1990. The Human Rights Watch report entitled \"Black January in Azerbaijan\" states: \"Indeed, the violence used by the Soviet Army on the night of January 19–20 was so out of proportion to the resistance offered by Azerbaijanis as to constitute an exercise in collective punishment.\"\n\nIn North Korea, political prisoners are sent to the Kwan-li-so concentration camps along with their relatives without any fair trial. North Korean citizens convicted of more serious political crimes are sentenced to life imprisonment, and the summary two generations of their family (children and grandchildren) will be born in the camps as part of the \"3 generations of punishment\" policy instigated by state founder Kim Il-Sung in 1948.\nNorth Korea's political penal labor colonies, transliterated \"kwalliso\" or \"kwan-li-so\", constitute one of three forms of political imprisonment in the country, the other two being what Hawk (2012) translates as \"short-term detention/forced-labor centers\" and \"long-term prison labor camps\" for misdemeanor and felony offences respectively. In total, there are an estimated 150,000 to 200,000 political prisoners housed within the North Korean imprisonment system. In contrast to these other systems, the condemned are sent there without any form of judicial process as are their immediate three generations of family members as kin punishment.\nNorth Korea's kwalliso consist of a series of sprawling encampments measuring kilometers long and kilometers wide. The number of these encampments has varied over time. They are located mainly in the valleys between high mountains, mostly in the northern provinces of North Korea. There are between 5,000 and 50,000 prisoners per kwalliso, totaling perhaps some 150,000 to 200,000 prisoners throughout North Korea. The kwalliso are usually surrounded at their outer perimeters by barbed-wire fences punctuated with guard towers and patrolled by heavily armed guards. The encampments include self-contained closed \"village\" compounds for single persons, usually the alleged wrongdoers, and other closed, fenced-in \"villages\" for the extended families of the wrongdoers.\n\nThe current blockade of Gaza has been criticized by the International Committee of the Red Cross, in a United Nations report, and by various other organisations as collective punishment aimed at the Palestinians. In Alamarin v. IDF Commander in Gaza Strip the Israeli High Court of Justice held that the homes of Palestinians who have committed violent acts may be demolished under the Defence (Emergency) Regulations, even if the residence has other inhabitants who are unconnected to the crime.\n\nThe 1984 anti-Sikh riots or the 1984 Sikh Massacre was a riot directed against Sikhs in India, by anti-Sikh mobs, in response to the assassination of Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards. This caused more than 3000 deaths. The CBI is of the opinion that the acts of violence were well organized with support from the officials in the Delhi police and central government at the time, headed by Indira Gandhi's son, Rajiv Gandhi. Rajiv, a Congress party member who was sworn in as the Prime Minister after his mother's death, when asked about the riots said \"When a big tree falls, the earth shakes\".\n\nIn 2011, Human Rights Watch reported the Government of India had \"yet to prosecute those responsible for the mass killings\". The 2011 WikiLeaks cable leaks revealed that the United States was convinced regarding the complicity of the Indian government led by the Indian National Congress in the riots, and termed it as \"opportunism\" and \"hatred\" of the Congress government against Sikhs. Also in 2011, a new set of mass graves were discovered in Haryana, and Human Rights Watch reported that \"Widespread anti-Sikh attacks in Haryana were part of broader revenge attacks\" in India.\n\nOn May 20, 2008, the Pakistan Army conducted collective punishment against a village called Spinkai, located in the frontier province of Pakistan. The operation was called 'zalzala', which is Arabic for earthquake. At first, the Pakistan Army swept through with helicopter gunships, artillery and tanks. After four days of heavy fighting, 25 militants and six soldiers died. The rest of the militants retreated up the valley. After the capture of the village the army discovered bomb factories, detonation-ready suicide jackets and schools for teenage suicide bombers.\n\nThe Pakistan Army immediately decided to punish the village for harboring the Taliban and allowing the militants to operate in and from the village to conduct further terror attacks in Pakistan. Bulldozers and explosives experts turned Spinkai's bazaar into a mile-long pile of rubble. Petrol stations, shops, and even parts of the hospital were leveled or blown up. The villagers were forbidden from returning to their homes.\n\nPakistani commanders, who were speaking to the media, insisted they had been merciful in their application of \"collective punishment\" – a practice invented by the British who demarcated the tribal areas over a century ago.\n\nSouth Africa still retains the Apartheid-era law of common purpose, by which those who make up part of a group can be punished for the crimes of other group members, even if they were not themselves actively involved. In August 2012 this came to public attention when 270 miners were threatened with prosecution for participating in a demonstration. During the demonstration at the Marikana mine, 34 miners were shot by police. Many of the miners were armed. When prosecutors said they would pursue charges against other miners who were part of the protest, there was a public outcry.\n\nThroughout most of Syria's ongoing civil war, collective punishment has been a recurring method used by the Syrian government to quell opposition cities and suburbs throughout the country, whereby entire cities are besieged, shelled, and destroyed if that city is deemed as pro-opposition.\n\nUpon retaking the capital Damascus after the Battle of Damascus (2012), the Syrian government began a campaign of collective punishment against Sunni suburbs in-and-around the capital which had supported FSA presence in their neighborhoods.\n\nIn opposition-controlled cities and districts in Aleppo province and Aleppo city, reports indicate that the Syrian government is attacking civilians at bread bakeries with artillery rounds and rockets, with the reports indicating that the bakeries were shelled indiscriminately. HRW said these are war crimes, as the only military targets wherever the few rebels manning the bakeries, and that dozens of civilians were killed.\n\nIn Idlib province in the northwest of the country, entire cities were shelled and bombed for sheltering opposition activists and rebels, with the victims mostly civilians, along with heavy financial losses.\n\nRather than attempt to discover some \"contra-causal free will\", modern philosophers will usually use notions of intention to establish individual moral responsibility. This Kantian approach may not be the only way to assess responsibility, especially considering groups may need a unique approach to individuals. For instance, there is the issue that consistent (not hypocritical) individuals may nevertheless experience a discursive dilemma when they try to act as a group.\n\nPhilosopher Kenneth Shockley suggests we focus on group faults and the punishments that would bring change. Punishments, for a group, might include: full or partial disbanding, weakening bonds between members, or de-institutionalizing some of the group's norms. Neta Crawford says groups can be expected to change, but also apologize and make amends. That might mean groups must forfeit important parts of themselves. In this case, groups are being held responsible for organizing or incentivizing harmful behaviors. Shockley calls this the group's \"coordinating control\" over members. He says group responsibility can mitigate individual responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "30675601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30675601", "title": "Collins v. United States", "text": "Collins v. United States\n\nCollins v. United States is a class-action lawsuit filed on November 10, 2010, against the United States in the United States Court of Federal Claims that ended in a settlement on January 7, 2013.\n\nThe lead plaintiff, former U.S. Air Force Staff Sergeant Richard Collins, was honorably discharged under \"Don't ask, don't tell\" (DADT) after nine years of service after two civilian co-workers saw him kissing his civilian boyfriend. Once discharged, Collins discovered that his separation pay was half that normally paid to servicemembers separated from the military under the designation \"honorably discharged\". The Department of Defense (DoD) had an established policy that provided that servicemembers honorably discharged receive half the normal separation pay if they were not eligible for reenlistment. Those discharged as homosexuals under DADT as well as those discharged for medical reasons were ineligible for reenlistment and therefore received half the standard separation pay.\n\nOn Collins' behalf, the ACLU and the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network filed requests for the revision of the policy with the DoD. When the DoD refused that request, Joshua Block of the American Civil Liberties Union, Laura Schauer Ives of the ACLU of New Mexico, and Sara Berger of Albuquerque, New Mexico, filed suit on November 10 and opened participation in the case to all veterans discharged under the policy since November 20, 2004.\n\nOn January 29, 2011, while detailing the repeal of DADT in accordance with the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010, the DoD announced that those discharged under the policy would not receive any additional compensation and that their separation pay would not be adjusted. The ACLU expressed disappointment with the DoD's position.\n\nJudge Christine Odell Cook Miller heard arguments in the case on September 22, 2011, two days after the end of the DADT policy. Justice Department lawyer L. Misha Preheim argued on behalf of the government that the Secretary of Defense has sole jurisdiction over back pay for discharged soldiers and that the courts cannot rewrite military regulations.\n\nOn January 7, 2013, the ACLU reached a settlement with the federal government. It provided for the payment of full separation pay to servicemembers discharged under DADT since November 10, 2004, who had previously been granted only half that. Under this agreement, some 181 were expected to receive about $13,000 each.\n\n"}
{"id": "6310476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6310476", "title": "Constitutional history of Greece", "text": "Constitutional history of Greece\n\nIn the modern history of Greece, starting from the Greek War of Independence, the Constitution of 1975/1986/2001 is the last in a series of democratically adopted Constitutions (with the exception of the Constitutions of 1968 and 1973 imposed by a dictatorship). \n\nDuring the Greek War of Independence, three constitutional texts (Constitutions of 1822, 1823 and 1827) were adopted by the Greek National Assemblies, the national representative political gatherings of the Greek revolutionaries. These constitutions were influenced by:\n\n\nA year before the adoption of the Greek Constitution of 1822, local Assemblies had ratified the so-called Greek local statutes, such as the Senate Organization of Western Greece, the Legal Order of Eastern Greece and the Peloponnesian Senate Organization.\n\nKing Otto governed for more than 10 years without any constitutional restrictions, since the \"hegemonical\" Greek Constitution of 1832 was never implemented. On 3 September 1843, the infantry, led by Colonel Dimitrios Kallergis and the Revolutionary captain Ioannis Makriyannis, assembled in the square in front of the palace in Athens. Eventually joined by much of the population of the small capital, the rebellion refused to disperse until the king agreed to grant a constitution. Left with little recourse, King Otto gave in to the pressure and agreed to the demands of the crowd over the objections of his opinionated Queen. This square was renamed to Constitution Square (Syntagma Square) to commemorate the events of September 1843.\n\nThe Greek Constitution of 1844 defined Greece as a constitutional monarchy, providing for a bicameral parliament, consisting of a Chamber of Deputies and a Senate. The Greek Constitution of 1864 was somewhat more liberal, and transferred most of the real power to the parliament. In 1874 Charilaos Trikoupis published a manifesto entitled \"Who's to blame?\", naming King George I as the answer. Specifically, he condemned the king for bypassing parliamentary opinion in his selection of Prime Ministers. The article landed him briefly in jail, but also boosted his popularity significantly. A year later, on 8 May 1874 he mustered a parliamentary plurality and George reluctantly named him as Prime Minister. Thanks to Trikoupis' article, a new constitutional principle was recognized and implemented: the king was required to give the largest party in parliament first choice of forming a government. In 1911 Eleftherios Venizelos amended 54 of the 110 articles of the Constitution, trying to bring the constitution in line with his Liberal Party's principles. Nevertheless, the National schism of 1916 caused a huge constitutional crisis, as two governments were formed: one in Athens and one in Thessaloniki.\n\nThe Constitution of 1925 provided for a Republic in accordance with the results of the plebiscite of 1924. Nonetheless, on 24 June 1925, officers loyal to Theodoros Pangalos, fearing that the political instability was putting the country at risk, overthrew the government in a coup and violated the Constitution. On 24 August 1926, a counter-coup deposed him and Pavlos Kountouriotis returned as President.\n\nSince the previous Constitution was not fully implemented, it was the Constitution of 1927 which formally established the Second Hellenic Republic and provided for a largely ceremonial president as head of state.\n\nAfter the plebiscite of 1935, King George II was restored, but the Third Revisionary Parliament of 1936 did not have the time to replace or amend the Constitution of the Republic. Instead, the Constitution of 1911 was restored, ostensibly on a temporary basis. The elections of 1936 had produced a political deadlock and, thereby, George II appointed Ioannis Metaxas to be interim prime minister. Widespread industrial unrest in May allowed Metaxas to declare a state of emergency. On 4 August, he suspended the parliament indefinitely and suspended various articles of the constitution, with the king's approval. For all intents and purposes, Metaxas was now a dictator. No constitutional amendment was adopted before Germany invaded Greece in 1941.\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, King George II was once again restored by virtue of the plebiscite of 1946. The implications of the Greek Civil War did not allow the ratification of the liberal Draft Constitution of 1948. A more conservative Constitution was passed in 1952, which imposed restrictions on basic human rights and banned the Communist Party of Greece (KKE). \n\nOn 21 April 1967, a coup took place by right-wing officers, which established a dictatorship known as the Colonels' Regime. An attempted counter-coup by King Constantine II in December failed, forcing him to leave the country. Thus, legally, there was no government and no Head of State in Athens. Thereby, the Revolutionary Council of Stylianos Pattakos, George Papadopoulos and Nikolaos Makarezos made a brief appearance to cause a Resolution to be published in the Government Gazette, appointing another member to the military administration, Major General Georgios Zoitakis, as Regent. Zoitakis then appointed Papadopoulos as Prime Minister. A new constitution was adopted by referendum in 1968. King Constantine was officially retained as head of state, though he would not be allowed to return until the first parliamentary election unless the government recalled him sooner. Many of the guarantees of civil rights were suspended, and elections were postponed until the \"Revolution of April 21\" (as the coup was called) had reformed the \"Greek mentality.\"\n\nFive years later, during Papadopoulos' attempts at controlled democratization, he abolished the monarchy and declared Greece a republic with himself as president. A plebiscite formally abolished the monarchy on 29 July 1973. A new Constitution was drafted, providing for a popularly elected president with wide-ranging powers, effectively establishing a presidential republic. After the hard-liners' coup on 25 November 1973 deposed Papadopoulos, the regime retained the trappings of the Republic, but reverted to exclusively military control until its final collapse in the wake of the Cyprus crisis in August 1974.\n\nWith the return of civilian rule under Constantine Karamanlis, the new government, acting under extraordinary circumstances, issued a \"Constituting Act\" which voided the 1973 constitution. Pending a referendum on a new constitution, the 1952 constitution was temporarily restored, \"except for the articles dealing with the form of the State\"; the last phrase referring to whether the monarchy would be restored or not. In the meantime, the functions of the king were to be discharged by the president of the republic.\n\nThe matter was settled by plebiscite on 8 December 1974, by which the monarchy was definitively abolished. A new Constitution, adopted by Parliament and promulgated on 11 June 1975, established a parliamentary democracy with a president as head of state. In practice, however, most of the power was vested in the prime minister. This constitution was revised in 1985 to codify this practice. It was amended again in 2001, and is in force today.\n\nIn a chronological order, the Greek Constitutions are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2339023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2339023", "title": "Constitutional right", "text": "Constitutional right\n\nA constitutional right can be a prerogative or a duty, a power or a restraint of power, recognized and established by a sovereign state or union of states. All constitutional rights are expressly stipulated and written in a consolidated national constitution, which is the supreme law of the land, meaning that any other laws which are in contradiction with it are considered unconstitutional and thus regarded as invalid. Usually any constitution defines the structure, functions, powers, and limits of the national government and the individual freedoms, rights, and obligations which will be protected and enforced when needed by the national authorities.\n\nNowadays, most countries have a written constitution comprising similar or distinct constitutional rights. Since 1789, along with the Constitution of the United States of America (hereinafter U.S. Constitution), which is the oldest and shortest written constitution still in force, around 220 other similar constitutions were adopted around the world by independent states.\n\nIn the late 18th century, Thomas Jefferson predicted that a period of 20 years will be the optimal time for any Constitution to still be in force since \"the earth belongs to the living, and not to the dead.\" Coincidence or not, according to recent studies the average life expectancy of any new written constitution is around 19 years. However, a great number of constitutions do not exceed more than 10 years and around 10% do not last more than 1 year, as it was the case of the French Constitution from 1971 and not only.\n\nThe most common reasons for these continuous changes are the political desire of an immediate outcome and the scarcity of time devoted to the constitutional drafting process. A study from 2009 showed that the average time allocated for the drafting part of the process is around 16 months however there were also some extreme cases registered. For example, the Myanmar 2008 Constitution was secretly drafted for more than 17 years, whereas on the other extreme, like the case of the Japan's 1946 Constitution, the bureaucrats drafted everything in no more than a week.Nevertheless, the record for the shortest overall process of drafting, adoption and ratification of a national Constitution belongs to the Romania's 1938 Constitution which installed a royal dictatorship in less than a month. Studies on the matter showed as a general conclusion that usually non-democracies where the registered extreme cases where the constitution-making process either takes too long or is incredibly short. Important not to forget or make any confusions about it is that constitutional rights are not a specific characteristic of democratic countries, but also non-democratic countries have Constitutions, such as North Korea for example, which officially grants every citizen, among other rights, the freedom of expression.\n\nOther coded set of laws have existed before the first Constitutions were developed having some similar purpose and functions, like the United Kingdom's 1215 Magna Carta or the Virginia Bill of Rights of 1776.\n\nOn September 17, 1787 the United States Constitution was signed during the Constitutional Convention (United States) which took place at the Pennsylvania State House in Philadelphia, now the Independence Hall.\n\nThe oldest person signing the Constitution was Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers, being 81 years old at the time and requesting assistance during the process, whereas the youngest one was Jonathan Dayton from New Jersey, being only 26 years old. James Madison and George Washington were the only two signers that later became Presidents of the United States.\n\nPerhaps the first fascinating fact about the U.S. Constitution is its length, containing only 4.400 words and thus being the shortest and oldest written Constitution in the world. Only on December 15, 1791 the Bill of Rights comprising the first 10 Amendments became part of the U.S. Constitution. Later on, other 17 Amendments were added. Thus, the U.S Constitution is summing a total of 27 Amendments and 7 Articles. During all this time, only one amendment overturned a previous one, more precisely the twenty-first Amendment ratified on December 5, 1933 repealed the prohibition of alcohol established by the eighteenth Amendment on January 16, 1919.\n\nThe provisions providing for rights under the Bill of Rights were originally binding upon only the federal government. In time, most of these provisions became binding upon the states through selective incorporation into the due process clause of the 14th Amendment. When a provision is made binding on a state, a state can no longer restrict the rights guaranteed in that provision.\n\nExamples of provisions made binding upon the states are the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution which was made \"fully applicable\" by being Incorporated with the 14th Amendment in 2010, see, McDonald vs. City of Chicago; the 6th Amendment's guarantee of a right to confrontation of witnesses, known as the Confrontation Clause, and the various provisions of the 1st Amendment, guaranteeing the freedoms of speech, the press, government and assembly.\n\nFor example, the Fifth Amendment protects the right to grand jury proceedings in federal criminal cases. However, because this right was not selectively incorporated into the due process clause of the 14th amendment, it is not binding upon the states. Therefore, persons involved in state criminal proceedings as a defendant have no federal constitutional right to grand jury proceedings. Whether an individual has a right to a grand jury becomes a question of state law.\n\nThe content of each Article and Amendment of the U.S. Constitution is easy to predict since they start with a suggestive title. For example, the First Amendment guarantees the freedom of religion, speech, and the press along with the rights of assembly and petition, the Second Amendment the right to bear arms and so on. However, in order to be easier to distinguish, the legal professionals have divided the constitutional rights into two categories: process rights and substantive rights. Whereas, the process rights refer to the powers and obligations of the government with respect to individuals, the substantive rights, more diverse than the process ones, incorporate the individual freedoms granted and protected by the national government.\n\nEach of the United States has its own governing Constitution. The States Constitutions are usually longer and written in much more detail than the U.S. Constitution. For example, the Alabama Constitution has more than 600 pages and the New Jersey Constitution of 1947 is three times longer than the U.S. Constitution. The reason for this difference between the federal Constitution and the states Constitutions is what Justice Brennan called 'the new judicial federalism'. meaning that rights granted by the States Constitutions can be broader than those comprised by the federal Constitution but not narrowed.\n\nState constitutions cannot reduce legal protections afforded by the federal charter, but they can provide additional protections. \"California v. Ramos\", 463 U.S. 992, 1014, 103 S.Ct. 3446, 77 l.Ed.2d 1171 (1983). Even where the text of a state constitution matches verbatim that of the federal constitution, the state document may be held to provide more to the citizen. State constitutional rights can also include those entirely unaddressed in the federal constitution, such as the right to adequate education or the right to affordable housing.\n\nMany other democratic nations have followed the US model in enshrining certain rights in their constitutions. Countries whose written constitutions include a bill of rights include Germany, India and Japan.\n\nThe United Kingdom, as it has an uncodified constitution, does not have a constitutional bill of rights, although the Human Rights Act 1998 fulfills a similar role.\n\nThe European Convention of Human Rights applies in those nations which are members of the Council of Europe. Persons who have experienced Convention-infringing human rights violations on the territory of ECHR-signatory nations can appeal to the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn authoritarian regimes there are generally few or no guaranteed inalienable rights; alternatively, such rights may exist but be unobserved in practice (as was generally the case in the former Francoist Spain).\n"}
{"id": "45482242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45482242", "title": "Copyright claims on Bikram Yoga", "text": "Copyright claims on Bikram Yoga\n\nCopyright claims on Bikram Yoga are the claims made by Bikram Choudhury (\"Bikram\") that his yoga practice, Bikram Yoga, was under copyright and that it could not be taught or presented by anyone whom he had not authorized. Bikram began making copyright claims on Bikram Yoga in 2002. In 2011 Choudhury started a lawsuit against Yoga to the People, a competing yoga studio founded by a former student of Bikram's and with a location near one of the Bikram Yoga studios in New York. As a result of that lawsuit, the United States Copyright Office issued a clarification that yoga postures (\"asanas\") could not be copyrighted in the way claimed by Bikram, and that Yoga to the People and others could continue to freely teach these exercises. In 2015, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a lower court ruling that the Bikram Yoga Sequence was not copyrightable subject matter. \n\nBikram Choudhary goes by his first name, \"Bikram\". He is most known in popular culture for mass marketing his yoga practice into a franchising system of 900 yoga studios as of 2004. Bikram insists that classes be taught in these studios in a certain way, and that they taught only certain yoga postures. Starting in 2002, Bikram began having his lawyers send out cease and desist letters to any yoga studio which presented his Bikram Yoga postures without his authorization.\n\nIn the United States, Choudhury has claimed, and been aggressive in threatening suit over, broad copyrights in most aspects of the practice, teaching, and business of the system. Choudhury extracted settlements from a number of yoga teachers and studios. However, in 2012, the US Copyright Office concluded that copyright for Bikram's sequence of 26 postures had been issued in error. This led a federal district court, and later the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, to reject Choudhury's claims and rule that the sequence of postures was not copyrightable. \n\nYoga to the People is a yoga studio established by one of Bikram Choudhury's former work associates. After Yoga to the People opened a yoga studio near a Bikram Yoga studio, Bikram started a lawsuit to have them cease presenting Bikram Yoga postures at their studio.\n\nYoga to the People sought public attention to the lawsuit in social media.\n\nAs a result of that lawsuit, the United States Copyright Office issued a clarification that yoga postures (\"asanas\") could not be copyrighted in the way claimed by Bikram, and that Yoga to the People and others could continue to freely teach these exercises. After that clarification Yoga to the People and Bikram came to an agreement that Yoga to the People would not present Bikram Yoga.\n\nDespite not having a court-ordered obligation to do so, Yoga to the People ceased to present Bikram Yoga postures in its studios and instead began using its own postures. Of the settlement, Bikram said \"\"I win, he lose, and that's it... Nobody will ever be able to steal Bikram yoga anymore.\"\n\nEvolation Yoga was also founded by a previous associate of Bikram Choudhury. Choudhury similarly sued Evolation Yoga for teaching hot yoga with the same sequence of postures as Bikram Yoga. \n\nOn December 17, 2012, U.S. District Court Judge Otis Wright ruled that Bikram Choudhury does not have copyright protection for the sequence of 26 yoga postures and two breathing exercises commonly known as “Bikram Yoga.” The ruling, in favor of Evolation Yoga LLC and its founders Mark Drost and Zefea Samson, meant that non-Bikram studios are allowed to offer hot yoga classes utilizing that same 26-posture sequence—a legal right Choudhury actively and vigorously contested for several years.\n\nOn October 8, 2015, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, finding that the sequence of yoga postures was not copyrightable subject matter under 17 U.S.C. § 102(b) and that Choudhury's copyright in a book describing his system did not give him copyright over the sequence itself. \n\n"}
{"id": "32690865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32690865", "title": "Cybaris", "text": "Cybaris\n\nCybaris is a biannual law review published by Mitchell Hamline School of Law. It was established in 2010 and focuses on intellectual property law. \"Cybaris\" was featured in an article published by \"Patently-O\". The founding editors-in-chief were Jennell Bilek and Ryan C. Smith (2010). The current editor-in-chief is Molly R. Littman.\n\n\"Cybaris\" has its own searchable database in Westlaw (CYBARIS), and is included Westlaw's index of law reviews (TP-ALL).\n\n"}
{"id": "2022240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2022240", "title": "Delegation (law)", "text": "Delegation (law)\n\nIn contract law and administrative law, delegation (Latin \"intercessio\") is the act of giving another person the responsibility of carrying out the performance agreed to in a contract. Three parties are concerned with this act - the party who had incurred the obligation to perform under the contract is called the \"delegator\"; the party who assumes the responsibility of performing this duty is called the \"delegatee\"; and the party to whom this performance is owed is called the \"obligee\".\n\nA delegation will be null and void if it poses any threat to the commercially reasonable expectations of the obligee. For example, a task requiring specialized skills or based on the unique characteristics of the promisee can not be delegated. If a specific celebrity was hired to make a speech, they could not delegate the task to another person, even if the other person would give the same speech, word for word. However, a delegation of performance that does not pose such a threat will be held to be valid. In such a case, the obligee will be under an affirmative duty to cooperate with the delegatee to the extent necessary for the fulfillment of the delegator's obligations\n\nIf the delegatee fails to perform satisfactorily, the obligee may elect to treat this failure as a breach of the original contract by the delegator \"or\" may assert himself as a third party beneficiary of the contract between the delegator and the delegatee, and can claim all remedies due to a third party beneficiary.\n\nIf the delegation is without consideration, the delegator remains liable for nonperformance, while the delegatee will not be liable to anyone for anything. Unlike an assignment, a delegation is virtually always for consideration, and never donative - few people are going to accept the charitable offer to perform a task contracted to someone else.\n\nA parallel concept to delegation is assignment, which occurs when one party transfers his present rights to receive the benefits accruing to the assignor under that contract. A delegation and an assignment can be accomplished at the same time, although the right to sue for nonpayment always stays with delegator. Under the common law, a contract clause prohibiting assignment also prohibits delegation. Another common law rule requires that a party to a contract can not delegate performance that involves special skills or reputation (although it is possible to have a novation under such circumstances).\n\nIn Administrative Law (the law that controls government action and decisions) a delegation is the process of handing some administrative action or decision to a subordinate. It is achieved through two mechanism:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5929492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5929492", "title": "Directa Decretal", "text": "Directa Decretal\n\nThe \"Directa\" decretal was written by Pope Siricius in February AD 385. It took the form of a long letter to Spanish bishop Himerius of Tarragona replying to the bishop’s requests for \"directa\" on various subjects sent several months earlier to Pope Damasus I. It became the first of a series of documents published by the Magisterium that claimed apostolic origin for clerical celibacy and reminded ministers of the altar of the perpetual continence required of them.\n\nIt is known that the First Ecumenical Council which took place at Nicaea included in its legislation a discipline of the priesthood known as clerical 'continence' or celibacy. This was the requirement of all priests and bishops to refrain from sexual contact with their wives or with any other woman. Thus, for a married man to become a priest, his wife had to agree to abstain from all sexual relations. This discipline added to the legislation of various councils, particularly the Council of Elvira, the date of which cannot be determined with precision, but believed to have been in the first quarter of the fourth century, in Spain.\n\nWhile priests of the East and West were required to refrain from all sexual contact by virtue of their presiding at sacrifices, this was an exceedingly difficult discipline to maintain. Just as the Levite priests of the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem had been required to abstain from sexual contact (in order to achieve ritual purity) merely \"for a lengthy period prior to\" the periodic performance of the sacrifices of the temple, so the priests of the Early Church were required by ecclesiastical law to abstain from sexual contact. However, Christian priests presided at the sacrifice of the Eucharist every Sunday as well as the annual feasts of the various martyrs. Thus, Christian priests were not afforded by the Christian calendar periods in which they could be sexually active with their wives.\n\nIn the \"Directa\", the Pope dealt with the fact that clerics (deacons, priests, and bishops) were still living with their wives and having children, thus contravening the Council of Elvira and the First Ecumenical Council. Priests were justifying this by referring to the traditions of the Levitical priesthood of the Old Testament. Siricius was emphatic that clerical continence belonged to immemorial, even apostolic, tradition. He declared that priests had been under a duty to observe \"temporary\" continence when serving in the Temple, but that the coming of Christ had brought the old priesthood to completion, and by this fact the duty of temporary continence had become an obligation to \"perpetual\" continence. Fifteen points are studied in the decretal, but the key passage is that\nContinence was required of all Christian priests by ecclesiastical law until the great schism, and is still required of Catholic priests today; many Eastern Catholic Churches do not require celibacy of their priests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8068151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8068151", "title": "East Timor Law Journal", "text": "East Timor Law Journal\n\nEast Timor Law Journal seeks to promote the rule of law and democracy in East Timor by disseminating knowledge of the law of East Timor in English, providing a forum for the publication of legal opinions and critiques of law and legal policy in East Timor and facilitating legal research and information. This also contributes to good governance and democracy as the laws enacted by this new country can be widely scrutinised by the international legal and human rights agencies for compliance with fundamental rights, liberties, and freedoms, and the principles of international justice.\n\n\"East Timor Law Journal\" provides English translations of the laws of East Timor, publishes analyses and commentaries on the legal system, East Timor legal and other research resources, directories and the latest reports on legal developments. The complete body of the laws enacted by the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) and all available English translations of the laws enacted by the National Parliament and by the Government (both Decree Laws and Decrees) as well as the Resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly and the Security Council pertaining to East Timor are available on \"East Timor Law Journal\". A comprehensive directory of East Timor-related internet sites is also included.\n\nThe Journal is currently defunct, having published no papers since 2011. \n\n"}
{"id": "39993879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39993879", "title": "Eastern Party", "text": "Eastern Party\n\nEastern Party is a concept that has long been used by mainstream historians to define the reaction of a section of the population in the Third World countries against Westernization and the import of Western values in their societies. Rather than a specific political party, the term refers to a current in the public opinion of the said countries opposed to a \"Western Party\" of modernizers, who tend to accept Westernization as an inevitable phenomenon, which finally benefits the overall progress of Third World societies. Particularly in the history of Greece and Byzantium, this concept has been largely used by noted historians like Arnold J. Toynbee, Leften Stavrianos, Alexander Vasiliev and Nicolae Iorga, at the beginning of the 20th century and later by Dimitri Kitsikis.\n\nAmerican historian Stavrianos was a follower of British historian Toynbee and wrote in 1972 that \"the first teaching given to us by History is that Greece is an underdeveloped country and therefore is part of the Third World\". Toynbee, who, in 1922, had published a famous book on the Greek-Turkish War of 1919-1922, he also had placed Greece in the Third World. Furthermore, he considered Greece a victim of the West and condemned Western civilization as a failed civilization\n\nThe concept of an Eastern Party, as a reaction to the West, existed in China in the 17th century. In the last days of the Ming dynasty, the Chinese people were divided, like the Byzantines some centuries earlier, between supporters of Western Roman Catholics and supporters of the Manchus and Turkic Mongols. The first were collaborating with the \"Franks\", the second with the \"Tatars\". Finally, the Eastern Party prevailed, and Beijing gave itself to the Tatars. Supported by the Jesuits, the Chinese empress, the wife of the last Ming, was baptized as a Roman Catholic under the name Anne, and the heir of the throne, as a Catholic, had taken the name Constantine. The two queen mothers and many members of the royal court were also baptized as Roman Catholics.\n\nHelen, a queen mother, sent, in 1650, a message to Pope Innocent X (1644-1655) and to the general of the Jesuits to beg for at least spiritual help for the rescue of the Ming dynasty. Finally, pro-Latin emperor Yongli was defeated. He fled to Burma and died there.\n\nFrom the first conquest of Constantinople by the Crusaders in 1204 to the second conquest by the Ottoman Empire in 1453, the Byzantine Empire raged the struggle between the two parties, the pro-Latin Western Party and the pro-Turkish Eastern Party. Final victory came to the latter.\n\nBy Hellenoturkism, in the 19th century, the opposition of the Eastern Party to the newly-born Greek nation state of 1821 continued. At the eve of the Balkan Wars of 1912-1913, three friends (writer Pericles Giannopoulos, diplomat Ion Dragoumis and officer Athanase Souliotis-Nikolaidis) struggled in their writings and political action to defeat the so-called \"Frankish fanatics\".\n\nHistorian Dimitri Kitsikis, as a follower of Dragoumis, has relentlessly supported in all his writings, after the Second World War, the ideology of the Eastern Party, along with a growing number of Greek scholars who followed in his path as John S. RomanidesGeorge Metallinos, Kostas Sardelis, and Christos Yannaras. Ioannis Kapodistrias, the first head of state of independent Greece, in 1828 to 1831, who was assassinated by the pro-Westerners, is considered the most famous leader of the Eastern Party in the history of Modern Greece.\n\nThe Eastern Party was understood from the civilizational point of view rather than that of a political party (in Greek παράταξη rather than κόμμα) and found itself in opposition to the Western Party, the Greek pro-Westerners, at least since the 15th century Italian Renaissance. Then, scores of Byzantine intellectuals fled to the West, to escape from the conquest of Constantinople by the Ottomans. Plethon and Bessarion were some of the famous philosophers and theologians who fled to Italy at that time.\n\nThe gist of the intellectual differences between the two parties was explained by the minister of Foreign Affairs of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1919, Alexandros Diomidis (who signed Dioméde in French) in the following words: \"Monasticism, especially Mount Athos, a bastion of radical Orthodoxy... was overwhelmingly directing what we call today public opinion... This uncompromising Byzantine mentality as represented by the leaders of the reactionary party, [Joseph] Bryennios [1350-1431], Markos Evgenikos and Gennadios, with their Easternized psychosynthesis and their phanatical antipathy to any Greek classical education, was nearer to the mentality of the Eastern Turks than to the spirit of classical Antiquity which flourished in the West. The Byzantine and Muslim worlds with time and with their continuous promiscuity had adopted common characteristics... Both were anti-progressive and fatalists\".\n\nWhen, in the Summer 1993 issue of \"Foreign Affairs\", Samuel P. Huntington published his article Clash of Civilizations in which he disputed the idea that Greece belonged to the Western civilization, Westernizing professors of the Greek Universities Thanos Veremis and Theodore Couloumbis expressed their opposition to such a stand, which aimed at excluding Greece from Western civilization and accused their American colleague \"of discovering new barbarians\". The dispute between the Western and the Eastern Parties took paramount proportions after the Greek economic crisis started in 2009 and in the summer of 2015, with the decision of the leftist Tsipras government to organize a referendum on the relations of the country with the European Union, Greece was once more split between West and East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9515", "title": "Emancipation Proclamation", "text": "Emancipation Proclamation\n\nThe Emancipation Proclamation, or Proclamation 95, was a presidential proclamation and executive order issued by United States President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863. It changed the federal legal status of more than 3.5 million enslaved African Americans in the designated areas of the South from slave to free. As soon as a slave escaped the control of the Confederate government, by running away or through advances of federal troops, the former slave became free. Ultimately, the rebel surrender liberated and resulted in the proclamation's application to all of the designated former slaves. It did not cover slaves in Union areas that were freed by state action (or three years later by the 13th amendment in December 1865). It was issued as a war measure during the American Civil War, directed to all of the areas in rebellion and all segments of the executive branch (including the Army and Navy) of the United States.\n\nThe Proclamation ordered the freedom of all slaves in ten states. Because it was issued under the president's authority to suppress rebellion (war powers), it necessarily excluded areas not in rebellion, but still applied to more than 3.5 million of the 4 million slaves. The Proclamation was based on the president's constitutional authority as commander in chief of the armed forces; it was not a law passed by Congress. The Proclamation was issued in January 1863 after U.S government issued a series of warnings in the summer of 1862 under the Second Confiscation Act, allowing Southern Confederate supporters 60 days to surrender, or face confiscation of land and slaves. The Proclamation also ordered that suitable persons among those freed could be enrolled into the paid service of United States' forces, and ordered the Union Army (and all segments of the Executive branch) to \"recognize and maintain the freedom of\" the ex-slaves. The Proclamation did not compensate the owners, did not outlaw slavery, and did not grant citizenship to the ex-slaves (called freedmen). It made the eradication of slavery an explicit war goal, in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union.\n\nAround 25,000 to 75,000 slaves in regions where the US Army was active were immediately emancipated. It could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion, but, as the Union army took control of Confederate regions, the Proclamation provided the legal framework for freeing more than three and a half million slaves in those regions. Prior to the Proclamation, in accordance with the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, escaped slaves were either returned to their masters or held in camps as contraband for later return. The Proclamation applied only to slaves in Confederate-held lands; it did not apply to those in the four slave states that were not in rebellion (Kentucky, Maryland, Delaware, and Missouri, which were unnamed), nor to Tennessee (unnamed but occupied by Union troops since 1862) and lower Louisiana (also under occupation), and specifically excluded those counties of Virginia soon to form the state of West Virginia. Also specifically excluded (by name) were some regions already controlled by the Union army. Emancipation in those places would come after separate state actions or the December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, which made slavery and indentured servitude, except for those duly convicted of a crime, illegal everywhere subject to United States jurisdiction.\n\nOn September 22, 1862, Lincoln issued a preliminary warning that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state that did not end its rebellion against the Union by January 1, 1863. None of the Confederate states restored themselves to the Union, and Lincoln's order was signed and took effect on January 1, 1863. The Emancipation Proclamation outraged white Southerners (and their sympathizers) who envisioned a race war. It angered some Northern Democrats, energized anti-slavery forces, and undermined elements in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy. The Proclamation lifted the spirits of African Americans both free and slave. It led many slaves to escape from their masters and get to Union lines to obtain their freedom, and to join the Union Army.\n\nThe Emancipation Proclamation broadened the goals of the Civil War. While slavery had been a major issue that led to the war, Lincoln's only mission at the start of the war was to maintain the Union. The Proclamation made freeing the slaves an explicit goal of the Union war effort. Establishing the abolition of slavery as one of the two primary war goals served to deter intervention by Britain and France. The Emancipation Proclamation was never challenged in court. To ensure the abolition of slavery in all of the U.S., Lincoln pushed for passage of the Thirteenth Amendment, and insisted that Reconstruction plans for Southern states require abolition in new state constitutions. Congress passed the 13th Amendment by the necessary two-thirds vote on January 31, 1865, and it was ratified by the states on December 6, 1865, ending legal slavery.\n\nThe United States Constitution of 1787 did not use the word \"slavery\" but included several provisions about unfree persons. The Three-Fifths Compromise (in Article I, Section 2) allocated Congressional representation based \"on the whole Number of free Persons\" and \"three fifths of all other Persons\". Under the Fugitive Slave Clause (Article IV, Section 2), \"[n]o person held to service or labour in one state\" would be freed by escaping to another. allowed Congress to pass legislation to outlaw the \"Importation of Persons\", but not until 1808. However, for purposes of the Fifth Amendment—which states that, \"No person shall ... be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law\"—slaves were understood as property. Although abolitionists used the Fifth Amendment to argue against slavery, it became part of the legal basis for treating slaves as property with \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" (1857). Socially, slavery was also supported in law and in practice by a pervasive culture of white supremacy. Nonetheless, between 1777 and 1804, every Northern state provided for the immediate or gradual abolition of slavery, except the border states of Maryland and Delaware. Maryland did not abolish slavery until 1864, and Delaware was one of the last states to hold onto slavery; it was still legal in Delaware when the thirteenth amendment was issued. No Southern state did so, and the slave population of the South continued to grow, peaking at almost four million people at the beginning of the American Civil War, when most slave states sought to break away from the United States.\n\nLincoln understood that the Federal government's power to end slavery in peacetime was limited by the Constitution which before 1865, committed the issue to individual states. Against the background of the American Civil War, however, Lincoln issued the Proclamation under his authority as \"Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy\" under Article II, section 2 of the United States Constitution. As such, he claimed to have the martial power to free persons held as slaves in those states that were in rebellion \"as a fit and necessary war measure for suppressing said rebellion\". He did not have Commander-in-Chief authority over the four slave-holding states that were not in rebellion: Missouri, Kentucky, Maryland and Delaware, and so those states were not named in the Proclamation. The fifth border jurisdiction, West Virginia, where slavery remained legal but was in the process of being abolished, was, in January 1863, still part of the legally recognized, \"reorganized\" state of Virginia, based in Alexandria, which was in the Union (as opposed to the Confederate state of Virginia, based in Richmond).\n\nThe Proclamation applied in the ten states that were still in rebellion in 1863, and thus did not cover the nearly 500,000 slaves in the slave-holding border states (Missouri, Kentucky, Maryland or Delaware) which were Union states. Those slaves were freed by later separate state and federal actions.\n\nThe state of Tennessee had already mostly returned to Union control, under a recognized Union government, so it was not named and was exempted. Virginia was named, but exemptions were specified for the 48 counties then in the process of forming the new state of West Virginia, and seven additional counties and two cities in the Union-controlled Tidewater region. Also specifically exempted were New Orleans and 13 named parishes of Louisiana, which were mostly under federal control at the time of the Proclamation. These exemptions left unemancipated an additional 300,000 slaves.\n\nThe Emancipation Proclamation has been ridiculed, notably in an influential passage by Richard Hofstadter for \"freeing\" only the slaves over which the Union had no power. These slaves were freed due to Lincoln's \"war powers\". This act cleared up the issue of contraband slaves. It automatically clarified the status of over 100,000 now-former slaves. Some 20,000 to 50,000 slaves were freed the day it went into effect in parts of nine of the ten states to which it applied (Texas being the exception). In every Confederate state (except Tennessee and Texas), the Proclamation went into immediate effect in Union-occupied areas and at least 20,000 slaves were freed at once on January 1, 1863.\n\nThe Proclamation provided the legal framework for the emancipation of nearly all four million slaves as the Union armies advanced, and committed the Union to ending slavery, which was a controversial decision even in the North. Hearing of the Proclamation, more slaves quickly escaped to Union lines as the Army units moved South. As the Union armies advanced through the Confederacy, thousands of slaves were freed each day until nearly all (approximately 3.9 million, according to the 1860 Census) were freed by July 1865.\n\nWhile the Proclamation had freed most slaves as a war measure, it had not made slavery illegal. Of the states that were exempted from the Proclamation, Maryland, Missouri, Tennessee, and West Virginia prohibited slavery before the war ended. In 1863, President Lincoln proposed a moderate plan for the Reconstruction of the captured Confederate State of Louisiana. Only 10% of the state's electorate had to take the loyalty oath. The state was also required to abolish slavery in its new constitution. Identical Reconstruction plans would be adopted in Arkansas and Tennessee. By December 1864, the Lincoln plan abolishing slavery had been enacted in Louisiana. However, in Delaware and Kentucky, slavery continued to be legal until December 18, 1865, when the Thirteenth Amendment went into effect.\n\nThe Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 required individuals to return runaway slaves to their owners. During the war, Union generals such as Benjamin Butler declared that slaves in occupied areas were contraband of war and accordingly refused to return them. This decision was controversial because it implied recognition of the Confederacy as a separate, independent sovereign state under international law, a notion that Lincoln steadfastly denied. As a result, he did not promote the contraband designation. In addition, as contraband, these people were legally designated as \"property\" when they crossed Union lines and their ultimate status was uncertain.\n\nIn December 1861, Lincoln sent his first annual message to Congress (the State of the Union Address, but then typically given in writing and not referred to as such). In it he praised the free labor system, as respecting human rights over property rights; he endorsed legislation to address the status of contraband slaves and slaves in loyal states, possibly through buying their freedom with federal taxes, and also the funding of strictly voluntary colonization efforts. In January 1862, Thaddeus Stevens, the Republican leader in the House, called for total war against the rebellion to include emancipation of slaves, arguing that emancipation, by forcing the loss of enslaved labor, would ruin the rebel economy. On March 13, 1862, Congress approved a \"Law Enacting an Additional Article of War\", which stated that from that point onward it was forbidden for Union Army officers to return fugitive slaves to their owners. On April 10, 1862, Congress declared that the federal government would compensate slave owners who freed their slaves. Slaves in the District of Columbia were freed on April 16, 1862, and their owners were compensated.\n\nOn June 19, 1862, Congress prohibited slavery in all current and future United States territories (though not in the states), and President Lincoln quickly signed the legislation. By this act, they repudiated the 1857 opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States in the \"Dred Scott Case\" that Congress was powerless to regulate slavery in U.S. territories.\nThis joint action by Congress and President Lincoln also rejected the notion of popular sovereignty that had been advanced by Stephen A. Douglas as a solution to the slavery controversy, while completing the effort first legislatively proposed by Thomas Jefferson in 1784 to confine slavery within the borders of existing states.\n\nIn July, Congress passed and Lincoln signed the Confiscation Act of 1862, containing provisions for court proceedings to liberate slaves held by convicted \"rebels\", or of slaves of rebels that had escaped to Union lines. The Act applied in cases of criminal convictions and to those who were slaves of \"disloyal\" masters. However, Lincoln's position continued to be that Congress lacked power to free all slaves within the borders of rebel held states, but Lincoln as commander in chief could do so if he deemed it a proper military measure, and that Lincoln had already drafted plans to do.\n\nAbolitionists had long been urging Lincoln to free all slaves. In the summer of 1862, Republican editor Horace Greeley of the highly influential New York Tribune wrote a famous editorial entitled \"The Prayer of Twenty Millions\" demanding a more aggressive attack on the Confederacy and faster emancipation of the slaves: \"On the face of this wide earth, Mr. President, there is not one ... intelligent champion of the Union cause who does not feel ... that the rebellion, if crushed tomorrow, would be renewed if slavery were left in full vigor and that every hour of deference to slavery is an hour of added and deepened peril to the Union.\" Lincoln responded in his from August 22, 1862, in terms of the limits imposed by his duty as president to save the Union:\n\nLincoln scholar Harold Holzer wrote in this context about Lincoln's letter: \"Unknown to Greeley, Lincoln composed this after he had already drafted a preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, which he had determined to issue after the next Union military victory. Therefore, this letter, was in truth, an attempt to position the impending announcement in terms of saving the Union, not freeing slaves as a humanitarian gesture. It was one of Lincoln's most skillful public relations efforts, even if it has cast longstanding doubt on his sincerity as a liberator.\" Historian Richard Striner argues that \"for years\" Lincoln's letter has been misread as \"Lincoln only wanted to save the Union.\" However, within the context of Lincoln's entire career and pronouncements on slavery this interpretation is wrong, according to Striner. Rather, Lincoln was softening the strong Northern white supremacist opposition to his imminent emancipation by tying it to the cause of the Union. This opposition would fight for the Union but not to end slavery, so Lincoln gave them the means and motivation to do both, at the same time. In his 2014 book, \"Lincoln's Gamble\", journalist and historian Todd Brewster asserted that Lincoln's desire to reassert the saving of the Union as his sole war goal was in fact crucial to his claim of legal authority for emancipation. Since slavery was protected by the Constitution, the only way that he could free the slaves was as a tactic of war—not as the mission itself. But that carried the risk that when the war ended, so would the justification for freeing the slaves. Late in 1862, Lincoln asked his Attorney General, Edward Bates, for an opinion as to whether slaves freed through a war-related proclamation of emancipation could be re-enslaved once the war was over. Bates had to work through the language of the Dred Scott decision to arrive at an answer, but he finally concluded that they could indeed remain free. Still, a complete end to slavery would require a constitutional amendment.\n\nConflicting advice, to free all slaves, or not free them at all, was presented to Lincoln in public and private. Thomas Nast, a cartoon artist during the Civil War and the late 1800s considered \"Father of the American Cartoon\", composed many works including a two-sided spread that showed the transition from slavery into civilization after President Lincoln signed the Proclamation. Nast believed in equal opportunity and equality for all people, including enslaved Africans or free blacks. A mass rally in Chicago on September 7, 1862, demanded an immediate and universal emancipation of slaves. A delegation headed by William W. Patton met the president at the White House on September 13. Lincoln had declared in peacetime that he had no constitutional authority to free the slaves. Even used as a war power, emancipation was a risky political act. Public opinion as a whole was against it. There would be strong opposition among Copperhead Democrats and an uncertain reaction from loyal border states. Delaware and Maryland already had a high percentage of free blacks: 91.2% and 49.7%, respectively, in 1860.\n\nLincoln first discussed the proclamation with his cabinet in July 1862. He drafted his \"preliminary proclamation\" and read it to Secretary of State William Seward, and Secretary of Navy Gideon Welles, on July 13. Seward and Welles were at first speechless, then Seward referred to possible anarchy throughout the South and resulting foreign intervention; Welles apparently said nothing. On July 22, Lincoln presented it to his entire cabinet as something he had determined to do and he asked their opinion on wording. Although Secretary of War Edwin Stanton supported it, Seward advised Lincoln to issue the proclamation after a major Union victory, or else it would appear as if the Union was giving \"its last shriek of retreat\".\n\nIn September 1862, the Battle of Antietam gave Lincoln the victory he needed to issue the Emancipation. In the battle, though the Union suffered heavier losses than the Confederates and General McClellan allowed the escape of Robert E. Lee's retreating troops, Union forces turned back a Confederate invasion of Maryland. On September 22, 1862, five days after Antietam occurred, and while living at the Soldier's Home, Lincoln called his cabinet into session and issued the Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation. According to Civil War historian James M. McPherson, Lincoln told Cabinet members that he had made a covenant with God, that if the Union drove the Confederacy out of Maryland, he would issue the Emancipation Proclamation. Lincoln had first shown an early draft of the proclamation to Vice President Hannibal Hamlin, an ardent abolitionist, who was more often kept in the dark on presidential decisions. The final proclamation was issued January 1, 1863. Although implicitly granted authority by Congress, Lincoln used his powers as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, \"as a necessary war measure\" as the basis of the proclamation, rather than the equivalent of a statute enacted by Congress or a constitutional amendment. Some days after issuing the final Proclamation, Lincoln wrote to Major General John McClernand: \"After the commencement of hostilities I struggled nearly a year and a half to get along without touching the \"institution\"; and when finally I conditionally determined to touch it, I gave a hundred days fair notice of my purpose, to all the States and people, within which time they could have turned it wholly aside, by simply again becoming good citizens of the United States. They chose to disregard it, and I made the peremptory proclamation on what appeared to me to be a military necessity. And being made, it must stand.\"\n\nInitially, the Emancipation Proclamation effectively freed only a small percentage of the slaves, those who were behind Union lines in areas not exempted. Most slaves were still behind Confederate lines or in exempted Union-occupied areas. Secretary of State William H. Seward commented, \"We show our sympathy with slavery by emancipating slaves where we cannot reach them and holding them in bondage where we can set them free.\" Had any slave state ended its secession attempt before January 1, 1863, it could have kept slavery, at least temporarily. The Proclamation only gave the Lincoln Administration the legal basis to free the slaves in the areas of the South that were still in rebellion on January 1, 1863. It effectively destroyed slavery as the Union armies advanced south and conquered the entire Confederacy.\n\nThe Emancipation Proclamation also allowed for the enrollment of freed slaves into the United States military. During the war nearly 200,000 blacks, most of them ex-slaves, joined the Union Army. Their contributions gave the North additional manpower that was significant in winning the war. The Confederacy did not allow slaves in their army as soldiers until the last month before its defeat.\n\nThough the counties of Virginia that were soon to form West Virginia were specifically exempted from the Proclamation (Jefferson County being the only exception), a condition of the state's admittance to the Union was that its constitution provide for the gradual abolition of slavery (an immediate emancipation of all slaves was also adopted there in early 1865). Slaves in the border states of Maryland and Missouri were also emancipated by separate state action before the Civil War ended. In Maryland, a new state constitution abolishing slavery in the state went into effect on November 1, 1864. The Union-occupied counties of eastern Virginia and parishes of Louisiana, which had been exempted from the Proclamation, both adopted state constitutions that abolished slavery in April 1864. In early 1865, Tennessee adopted an amendment to its constitution prohibiting slavery. Slaves in Kentucky and Delaware were not emancipated until the Thirteenth Amendment was ratified.\n\nThe Proclamation was issued in two parts. The first part, issued on September 22, 1862, was a preliminary announcement outlining the intent of the second part, which officially went into effect 100 days later on January 1, 1863, during the second year of the Civil War. It was Abraham Lincoln's declaration that all slaves would be permanently freed in all areas of the Confederacy that had not already returned to federal control by January 1863. The ten affected states were individually named in the second part (South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Texas, Virginia, Arkansas, North Carolina). Not included were the Union slave states of Maryland, Delaware, Missouri and Kentucky. Also not named was the state of Tennessee, in which a Union-controlled military government had already been set up, based in the capital, Nashville. Specific exemptions were stated for areas also under Union control on January 1, 1863, namely 48 counties that would soon become West Virginia, seven other named counties of Virginia including Berkeley and Hampshire counties, which were soon added to West Virginia, New Orleans and 13 named parishes nearby.\n\nUnion-occupied areas of the Confederate states where the proclamation was put into immediate effect by local commanders included Winchester, Virginia, Corinth, Mississippi, the Sea Islands along the coasts of the Carolinas and Georgia, Key West, Florida, and Port Royal, South Carolina.\n\nIt has been inaccurately claimed that the Emancipation Proclamation did not free a single slave; historian Lerone Bennett, Jr. alleged that the proclamation was a hoax deliberately designed not to free any slaves. However, as a result of the Proclamation, many slaves were freed during the course of the war, beginning with the day it took effect; eyewitness accounts at places such as Hilton Head, South Carolina, and Port Royal, South Carolina record celebrations on January 1 as thousands of blacks were informed of their new legal status of freedom. Estimates of how many thousands of slaves were freed immediately by the Emancipation Proclamation are varied. One contemporary estimate put the 'contraband' population of Union-occupied North Carolina at 10,000, and the Sea Islands of South Carolina also had a substantial population. Those 20,000 slaves were freed immediately by the Emancipation Proclamation.\" This Union-occupied zone where freedom began at once included parts of eastern North Carolina, the Mississippi Valley, northern Alabama, the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, a large part of Arkansas, and the Sea Islands of Georgia and South Carolina. Although some counties of Union-occupied Virginia were exempted from the Proclamation, the lower Shenandoah Valley, and the area around Alexandria were covered. Emancipation was immediately enforced as Union soldiers advanced into the Confederacy. Slaves fled their masters and were often assisted by Union soldiers.\n\nBooker T. Washington, as a boy of 9 in Virginia, remembered the day in early 1865:\nEmancipation took place without violence by masters or ex-slaves. The Proclamation represented a shift in the war objectives of the North—reuniting the nation was no longer the only goal. It represented a major step toward the ultimate abolition of slavery in the United States and a \"new birth of freedom\".\n\nRunaway slaves who had escaped to Union lines had previously been held by the Union Army as \"contraband of war\" under the Confiscation Acts; when the proclamation took effect, they were told at midnight that they were free to leave. The Sea Islands off the coast of Georgia had been occupied by the Union Navy earlier in the war. The whites had fled to the mainland while the blacks stayed. An early program of Reconstruction was set up for the former slaves, including schools and training. Naval officers read the proclamation and told them they were free.\n\nSlaves had been part of the \"engine of war\" for the Confederacy. They produced and prepared food; sewed uniforms; repaired railways; worked on farms and in factories, shipping yards, and mines; built fortifications; and served as hospital workers and common laborers. News of the Proclamation spread rapidly by word of mouth, arousing hopes of freedom, creating general confusion, and encouraging thousands to escape to Union lines. George Washington Albright, a teenage slave in Mississippi, recalled that like many of his fellow slaves, his father escaped to join Union forces. According to Albright, plantation owners tried to keep the Proclamation from slaves but news of it came through the \"grapevine\". The young slave became a \"runner\" for an informal group they called the \"4Ls\" (\"Lincoln's Legal Loyal League\") bringing news of the proclamation to secret slave meetings at plantations throughout the region.\n\nRobert E. Lee saw the Emancipation Proclamation as a way for the Union to bolster the number of soldiers it could place on the field, making it imperative for the Confederacy to increase their own numbers. Writing on the matter after the sack of Fredericksburg, Lee wrote \"In view of the vast increase of the forces of the enemy, of the savage and brutal policy he has proclaimed, which leaves us no alternative but success or degradation worse than death, if we would save the honor of our families from pollution, our social system from destruction, let every effort be made, every means be employed, to fill and maintain the ranks of our armies, until God, in his mercy, shall bless us with the establishment of our independence.\" Lee's request for a drastic increase of troops would go unfulfilled.\n\nThe Proclamation was immediately denounced by Copperhead Democrats who opposed the war and advocated restoring the union by allowing slavery. Horatio Seymour, while running for the governorship of New York, cast the Emancipation Proclamation as a call for slaves to commit extreme acts of violence on all white southerners, saying it was \"a proposal for the butchery of women and children, for scenes of lust and rapine, and of arson and murder, which would invoke the interference of civilized Europe\". The Copperheads also saw the Proclamation as an unconstitutional abuse of presidential power. Editor Henry A. Reeves wrote in Greenport's \"Republican Watchman\" that \"In the name of freedom of Negroes, [the proclamation] imperils the liberty of white men; to test a utopian theory of equality of races which Nature, History and Experience alike condemn as monstrous, it overturns the Constitution and Civil Laws and sets up Military Usurpation in their Stead.\"\n\nRacism remained pervasive on both sides of the conflict and many in the North supported the war only as an effort to force the South to stay in the Union. The promises of many Republican politicians that the war was to restore the Union and not about black rights or ending slavery, were now declared lies by their opponents citing the Proclamation. Copperhead David Allen spoke to a rally in Columbiana, Ohio, stating, \"I have told you that this war is carried on for the Negro. There is the proclamation of the President of the United States. Now fellow Democrats I ask you if you are going to be forced into a war against your Brithren of the Southern States for the Negro. I answer No!\" The Copperheads saw the Proclamation as irrefutable proof of their position and the beginning of a political rise for their members; in Connecticut, H. B. Whiting wrote that the truth was now plain even to \"those stupid thick-headed persons who persisted in thinking that the President was a conservative man and that the war was for the restoration of the Union under the Constitution\".\n\nWar Democrats who rejected the Copperhead position within their party, found themselves in a quandary. While throughout the war they had continued to espouse the racist positions of their party and their disdain of the concerns of slaves, they did see the Proclamation as a viable military tool against the South, and worried that opposing it might demoralize troops in the Union army. The question would continue to trouble them and eventually lead to a split within their party as the war progressed.\n\nLincoln further alienated many in the Union two days after issuing the preliminary copy of the Emancipation Proclamation by suspending habeas corpus. His opponents linked these two actions in their claims that he was becoming a despot. In light of this and a lack of military success for the Union armies, many War Democrat voters who had previously supported Lincoln turned against him and joined the Copperheads in the off-year elections held in October and November.\n\nIn the 1862 elections, the Democrats gained 28 seats in the House as well as the governorship of New York. Lincoln's friend Orville Hickman Browning told the president that the Proclamation and the suspension of habeas corpus had been \"disastrous\" for his party by handing the Democrats so many weapons. Lincoln made no response. Copperhead William Javis of Connecticut pronounced the election the \"beginning of the end of the utter downfall of Abolitionism in the United States\".\n\nHistorians James M. McPherson and Allan Nevins state that though the results looked very troubling, they could be seen favorably by Lincoln; his opponents did well only in their historic strongholds and \"at the national level their gains in the House were the smallest of any minority party's in an off-year election in nearly a generation. Michigan, California, and Iowa all went Republican... Moreover, the Republicans picked up five seats in the Senate.\" McPherson states \"If the election was in any sense a referendum on emancipation and on Lincoln's conduct of the war, a majority of Northern voters endorsed these policies.\"\n\nThe initial Confederate response was one of expected outrage. The Proclamation was seen as vindication for the rebellion, and proof that Lincoln would have abolished slavery even if the states had remained in the Union. In an August 1863 letter to President Lincoln, U.S. Army general Ulysses S. Grant observed that the Proclamation, combined with the usage of black soldiers by the U.S. Army, profoundly angered the Confederacy, saying that \"the emancipation of the Negro, is the heaviest blow yet given the Confederacy. The South rave a great deal about it and profess to be very angry.\" A few months after the Proclamation took effect, the Confederacy passed a law in May 1863 demanding \"full and ample retaliation\" against the U.S. for such measures. The Confederacy stated that the black U.S. soldiers captured while fighting against the Confederacy would be tried as slave insurrectionists in civil courts—a capital offense with automatic sentence of death. Less than a year after the law's passage, the Confederates massacred black U.S. soldiers at Fort Pillow.\n\nHowever, some Confederates welcomed the Proclamation, as they believed it would strengthen pro-slavery sentiment in the Confederacy and, thus, lead to greater enlistment of white men into the Confederate army. According to one Confederate man from Kentucky, \"The Proclamation is worth three hundred thousand soldiers to our Government at least... It shows exactly what this war was brought about for and the intention of its damnable authors.\" Even some Union soldiers concurred with this view and expressed reservations about the Proclamation, not on principle, but rather because they were afraid it would increase the Confederacy's determination to fight on and maintain slavery. One Union soldier from New York stated worryingly after the Proclamation's passage, \"I know enough of the Southern spirit that I think they will fight for the institution of slavery even to extermination.\"\n\nAs a result of the Proclamation, the price of slaves in the Confederacy increased in the months after its issuance, with one Confederate from South Carolina opining in 1865 that \"now is the time for Uncle to buy some negro women and children.\"\n\nAs Lincoln had hoped, the Proclamation turned foreign popular opinion in favor of the Union by gaining the support of anti-slavery countries and countries that had already abolished slavery (especially the developed countries in Europe such as Great Britain or France). This shift ended the Confederacy's hopes of gaining official recognition.\n\nSince the Emancipation Proclamation made the eradication of slavery an explicit Union war goal, it linked support for the South to support for slavery. Public opinion in Britain would not tolerate direct support for slavery. British companies, however, continued to build and operate blockade runners for the South. As Henry Adams noted, \"The Emancipation Proclamation has done more for us than all our former victories and all our diplomacy.\" In Italy, Giuseppe Garibaldi hailed Lincoln as \"the heir of the aspirations of John Brown\". On August 6, 1863, Garibaldi wrote to Lincoln: \"Posterity will call you the great emancipator, a more enviable title than any crown could be, and greater than any merely mundane treasure\".\n\nMayor Abel Haywood, a representative for workers from Manchester, England, wrote to Lincoln saying, \"We joyfully honor you for many decisive steps toward practically exemplifying your belief in the words of your great founders: 'All men are created free and equal.'\" The Emancipation Proclamation served to ease tensions with Europe over the North's conduct of the war, and combined with the recent failed Southern offensive at Antietam, to cut off any practical chance for the Confederacy to receive British support in the war.\n\nLincoln's Gettysburg Address in November 1863 made indirect reference to the Proclamation and the ending of slavery as a war goal with the phrase \"new birth of freedom\". The Proclamation solidified Lincoln's support among the rapidly growing abolitionist element of the Republican Party and ensured that they would not block his re-nomination in 1864.\n\nIn December 1863, Lincoln issued his \"Proclamation of Amnesty and Reconstruction\", which dealt with the ways the rebel states could reconcile with the Union. Key provisions required that the states accept the \"Emancipation Proclamation\" and thus the freedom of their slaves, and accept the Confiscation Acts, as well as the Act banning of slavery in United States territories.\n\nNear the end of the war, abolitionists were concerned that the Emancipation Proclamation would be construed solely as a war measure, Lincoln's original intent, and would no longer apply once fighting ended. They were also increasingly anxious to secure the freedom of all slaves, not just those freed by the Emancipation Proclamation. Thus pressed, Lincoln staked a large part of his 1864 presidential campaign on a constitutional amendment to abolish slavery uniformly throughout the United States. Lincoln's campaign was bolstered by separate votes in both Maryland and Missouri to abolish slavery in those states. Maryland's new constitution abolishing slavery took effect in November 1864. Slavery in Missouri was ended by executive proclamation of its governor, Thomas C. Fletcher, on January 11, 1865.\n\nWinning re-election, Lincoln pressed the lame duck 38th Congress to pass the proposed amendment immediately rather than wait for the incoming 39th Congress to convene. In January 1865, Congress sent to the state legislatures for ratification what became the Thirteenth Amendment, banning slavery in all U.S. states and territories. The amendment was ratified by the legislatures of enough states by December 6, 1865, and proclaimed 12 days later. There were about 40,000 slaves in Kentucky and 1,000 in Delaware who were liberated then.\n\nAs the years went on and American life continued to be deeply unfair towards blacks, cynicism towards Lincoln and the Emancipation Proclamation increased. Perhaps the strongest attack was Lerone Bennett's \"\" (2000), which claimed that Lincoln was a white supremacist who issued the Emancipation Proclamation in lieu of the real racial reforms for which radical abolitionists pushed. In his \"Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation\", Allen C. Guelzo noted the professional historians' lack of substantial respect for the document, since it has been the subject of few major scholarly studies. He argued that Lincoln was the US's \"last Enlightenment politician\" and as such was dedicated to removing slavery strictly within the bounds of law.\n\nOther historians have given more credit to Lincoln for what he accomplished within the tensions of his cabinet and a society at war, for his own growth in political and moral stature, and for the promise he held out to the slaves. More might have been accomplished if he had not been assassinated. As Eric Foner wrote:\nLincoln was not an abolitionist or Radical Republican, a point Bennett reiterates innumerable times. He did not favor immediate abolition before the war, and held racist views typical of his time. But he was also a man of deep convictions when it came to slavery, and during the Civil War displayed a remarkable capacity for moral and political growth.\n\nKal Ashraf wrote:\nPerhaps in rejecting the critical dualism–Lincoln as individual emancipator pitted against collective self-emancipators–there is an opportunity to recognise the greater persuasiveness of the combination. In a sense, yes: a racist, flawed Lincoln did something heroic, and not in lieu of collective participation, but next to, and enabled, by it. To venerate a singular –Great Emancipator' may be as reductive as dismissing the significance of Lincoln's actions. Who he was as a man, no one of us can ever really know. So it is that the version of Lincoln we keep is also the version we make.\n\nDr. Martin Luther King Jr. made many references to the Emancipation Proclamation during the civil rights movement. These include a speech made at an observance of the hundredth anniversary of the issuing of the Proclamation made in New York City on September 12, 1962 where he placed it alongside the Declaration of Independence as an \"imperishable\" contribution to civilization, and \"All tyrants, past, present and future, are powerless to bury the truths in these declarations\". He lamented that despite a history where the United States \"proudly professed the basic principles inherent in both documents\", it \"sadly practiced the antithesis of these principles\". He concluded \"There is but one way to commemorate the Emancipation Proclamation. That is to make its declarations of freedom real; to reach back to the origins of our nation when our message of equality electrified an unfree world, and reaffirm democracy by deeds as bold and daring as the issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation.\"\n\nKing's most famous invocation of the Emancipation Proclamation was in a speech from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial at the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom (often referred to as the \"I Have a Dream\" speech). King began the speech saying \"Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of captivity. But one hundred years later, we must face the tragic fact that the Negro is still not free. One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination.\"\n\nIn the early 1960s, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his associates developed a strategy to call on President John F. Kennedy to bypass a Southern segregationist opposition in the Congress by issuing an executive order to put an end to segregation. This envisioned document was referred to as the \"Second Emancipation Proclamation\".\n\nOn June 11, 1963, President Kennedy appeared on national television to address the issue of civil rights. Kennedy, who had been routinely criticized as timid by some of the leaders of the civil rights movement, told Americans that two black students had been peacefully enrolled in the University of Alabama with the aid of the National Guard despite the opposition of Governor George Wallace.\n\nJohn Kennedy called it a \"moral issue\" Invoking the centennial of the Emancipation Proclamation he said \n\nIn the same speech, Kennedy announced he would introduce comprehensive civil rights legislation to the United States Congress which he did a week later (he continued to push for its passage until his assassination in November 1963). Historian Peniel E. Joseph holds Lyndon Johnson's ability to get that bill, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, passed on July 2, 1964 was aided by \"the moral forcefulness of the June 11 speech\" which turned \"the narrative of civil rights from a regional issue into a national story promoting racial equality and democratic renewal\".\n\nDuring the civil rights movement of the 1960s, Lyndon B. Johnson invoked the Emancipation Proclamation holding it up as a promise yet to be fully implemented.\n\nAs Vice President while speaking from Gettysburg on May 30, 1963 (Memorial Day), at the centennial of the Emancipation Proclamation, Johnson connected it directly with the ongoing civil rights struggles of the time saying \"One hundred years ago, the slave was freed. One hundred years later, the Negro remains in bondage to the color of his skin... In this hour, it is not our respective races which are at stake—it is our nation. Let those who care for their country come forward, North and South, white and Negro, to lead the way through this moment of challenge and decision... Until justice is blind to color, until education is unaware of race, until opportunity is unconcerned with color of men's skins, emancipation will be a proclamation but not a fact. To the extent that the proclamation of emancipation is not fulfilled in fact, to that extent we shall have fallen short of assuring freedom to the free.\"\n\nAs president, Johnson again invoked the proclamation in a speech presenting the Voting Rights Act at a joint session of Congress on Monday, March 15, 1965. This was one week after violence had been inflicted on peaceful civil rights marchers during the Selma to Montgomery marches. Johnson said \"... it's not just Negroes, but really it's all of us, who must overcome the crippling legacy of bigotry and injustice. And we shall overcome. As a man whose roots go deeply into Southern soil, I know how agonizing racial feelings are. I know how difficult it is to reshape the attitudes and the structure of our society. But a century has passed—more than 100 years—since the Negro was freed. And he is not fully free tonight. It was more than 100 years ago that Abraham Lincoln—a great President of another party—signed the Emancipation Proclamation. But emancipation is a proclamation and not a fact. A century has passed—more than 100 years—since equality was promised, and yet the Negro is not equal. A century has passed since the day of promise, and the promise is unkept. The time of justice has now come, and I tell you that I believe sincerely that no force can hold it back. It is right in the eyes of man and God that it should come, and when it does, I think that day will brighten the lives of every American.\"\n\nIn episode 86 of \"The Andy Griffith Show\", Andy asks Barney to explain the Emancipation Proclamation to Opie who is struggling with history at school. Barney brags about his history expertise, yet it is apparent he cannot answer Andy's question. He finally becomes frustrated and explains it is a proclamation for certain people who wanted emancipation.\n\nIn \"\", Chef asks the military commander if he has \"ever heard of the Emancipation Proclamation?\" To which the military commander replies: \"I dont listen to hip-hop.\"\n\nThe Emancipation Proclamation is celebrated around the world including on stamps of nations such as the Republic of Togo. The United States commemorative was issued on August 16, 1963, the opening day of the Century of Negro Progress Exposition in Chicago, Illinois. Designed by Georg Olden, an initial printing of 120 million stamps was authorized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14026481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14026481", "title": "Estep v. United States", "text": "Estep v. United States\n\nEstep v. United States, 327 U.S. 114 (1946), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that a draft board's refusal to classify a Jehovah's Witness as minister is, after exhausting administrative remedies, subject to judicial review.\n\nAccording to the judicial opinion itself:\nEstep's local board classified him as I-A, i.e., as available for military service. Sec. 5(d) of the Selective Service Act exempts from training and service (but not from registration) \"regular or duly ordained ministers of religion\". Under the regulations those in that category are classified as IV-D. Estep, a member of Jehovah's Witnesses, claimed that he was entitled to that classification. The local board ruled against him. He took his case to the appeal board which classified him as I-A. He then asked the State and National Directors of Selective Service to appeal to the President for him. His request was refused. The local board thereupon ordered him to report for induction. He reported at the time and place indicated. He was accepted by the Navy. But he refused to be inducted, claiming that he was exempt from service because he was an ordained minister of the gospel. He was indicted under 11 of the Act for wilfully failing and refusing to submit to induction. He sought to defend on the ground that as a Jehovah's Witness he was a minister of religion and that he had been improperly denied exemption from service, because the classifying agencies acted arbitrarily and capriciously in refusing to classify him as IV-D.\n\n"}
{"id": "37941412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37941412", "title": "Firearm ownership law in China", "text": "Firearm ownership law in China\n\nFirearm ownership law in the People's Republic of China heavily regulates firearms ownership. Generally, private citizens are not allowed to possess firearms.\n\nDuring the Ming and Qing dynasties matchlock muskets were used in China. The Chinese used the term \"bird-gun\" to refer to muskets.\n\nIn the work \"Guangdong xinyu\", Cantonese scholar Qu Dajun recorded the use of guns by Cantonese boys in Guangdong province.\n\nThe Solons were ordered by the Qianlong Emperor to stop using rifles and instead practice traditional archery issuing an edict for silver taels to be issued for guns to turned over to the government.\n\nArrows and bows instead of muskets were also demanded in Jilin of Manchu Bannermen by the Jiaqing Emperor.\n\n\"The Family Magazine\" stated in 1837 that\nThe possession of firearms is altogether forbidden by the jealous government, as may be seen from the following extract from a Peking gazette:—\" For the people to have firearms in their possession, is contrary to law, and orders have already been issued to each provincial government to fix a period, within which all matchlocks belonging to individuals should be bought up at a valuation With regard to those firearms which are in immediate use for the safeguard of the country, the said governour has already directed the proper officers to carve on every matchlock the name of the person to whom it is delivered, and to preserve a general register of the whole. Let the governour also give strict charge to make diligent search, and prevent the illicit storing up of firearms for the future ; and let the workers in iron be rigidly looked after, lest they clandestinely manufacture and sell them ; the evil may thus be cut off in its commencement. Those officers who have made full and complete musters within the limited period, the governour is directed to notice properly as an encouragement to others.\" Those Chinese near Canton, who employ themselves in shooting wild-fowl for sale, are said to belong mostly to the militia of the province.\n\nDuring the New Policies Reform era of the late Qing, the government allowed the ordinary civilians to own firearms (matchlock or modern foreign gun) for self-defense. This policy lasted until the foundation of the People's Republic of China in 1949.\n\nIn Taiwan under Qing rule the Hakka on Taiwan owned matchlock muskets. Han people traded and sold matchlock muskets to the Taiwanese aborigines. The Aboriginals used their matchlock muskets to defeat the Americans in the Formosa Expedition. During the Sino-French War the Hakka and Aboriginals used their matchlock muskets against the French in the Keelung Campaign and Battle of Tamsui.\n\nLiu Mingchuan took measures to reinforce Tamsui, in the river nine torpedo mines were planted and the entrance was blocked with ballast boats filled with stone which were sunk on September 3, matchlock armed \"Hakka hill people\" were used to reinforce the mainland Chinese battalion, and around the British Consulate and Customs House at the Red Fort hilltop, Shanghai Arsenal manufactured Krupp guns were used to form an additional battery.\n\nAt Tamsui, the entrance of the river had been closed by laying down six torpedoes in the shape of a semi-circle on the inside of the bar. The Douglas steamers Fokien and Hailoong running to the port, as well as the German steamer Welle, were, whenever necessary, piloted over the torpedoes by the Chinese who had laid them down. The mandarins engaged in planting the guns that had been brought to the island by the latter steamer.\n\nTrade was resumed during the middle of the month at Twatutia, it being regarded for the time as safe, and the country thereabouts had quieted down to such an extent that a good deal of tea was brought in. Life for the foreigners was very much cramped. They were prohibited from making trips into the country; and even in the settlement, with religious processions, crackers, and, gongs going at all times of day, and the watchmen making a great noise with bamboos all night, rest was well nigh impossible except to the Chinese guards told off to protect foreign hongs, who after disappearing all day, except at meal times, \"return at night, and instead of guarding the property, turn in early and sleep as soundly as Rip van Winkle did till morning.\"\n\nUnder the impression that the French would attempt to enter the Tamsui river, ballast boats and junks loaded with stones were sunk at the entrance. A number of Hakka hillmen were added to the government force. They were armed with their own matchlocks, which in their ignc ranee they preferred to foreign rifles. Much was expected of them, as the life of warfare they had led on the savage border had trained them to be good shots and handy with their knives.\nBy the end of August the French had succeeded in holding the shore line at Kelung, but were unable to advance beyond it; and as Chinese soldiers had for some days been erecting earthworks and digging entrenchments on the hills on the east side of the bay overlooking the shipping, the French sent word ashore for the Europeans to come on board the Bayard, as they intended opening fire on the earthworks which were now just visible.1 The firing was not successful either that day or the next, the nature of the country being in favor of the Chinese; and for many days the shelling was a regular event, the Chinese not apparently suffering much damage themselves, or being able to inflict any upon the French. This condition of affairs continued through September, the French having gained only the summits of the near hills surrounding the harbor.\n\nGeneral Liu Ming-chuan left Kelung on the 9th to visit Tamsui and Taipehfu. On his arrival at the latter place he was met at the wharf by some 200 soldiers, 5 buglers, and 2 or 3 drummers. The march up the street with the soldiers in front, the band next, and the general in the rear in his chair, made an imposing parade. His presence is also said to have had a most stimulating effect on the soldiers on guard in the foreign hongs. All appeared in full force with uniforms and rifles, although for several days the muster in one hong had produced only one soldier and a boy in a soldier's coat.\n— James Wheeler Davidson, \"The island of Formosa, past and present: History, people, resources, and commercial prospects. Tea, camphor, sugar, gold, coal, sulphur, economical plants, and other productions\", 1903, also published as \"The Island of Formosa: Historical View from 1430 to 1900\"\n\nLiu Ming-chuan with some 6,000 men was stationed at Taipehfu in the Banka plain, while the forces at Hobe were daily strengthened, until, in the middle of October, there were assembled about 6,000 men in the neighborhood. Among these were new levies of Hakka hillmen. They were considered by the foreigners to be a dangerous lot to have in the neighborhood, and as they did not speak the same language as the general and other officers, it was feared that misunderstandings might arise with serious results. The other soldiers present were principally northern men, and were said to be well armed. The Hakkas, although armed with their primitive matchlocks, were considered to be brave men and were hardened to the privations of warfare. Their matchlocks are described as long-barrelled guns, fixed into semi-circular shaped stocks, with pans for priming powder, and armlets made of rattan, worn around the right wrist and containing pieces of bark-cord, which, when lighted, would keep alight for hours, if necessary. When in action the Hakka pours a charge of powder down the muzzle; on top of that are dropped two or three slug shot or long pieces of iron, withouL wadding. The trigger is made to receive the lighted piece of bark, and when powder covers the priming pan and all is ready, • the trigger is pulled and if,—if the weather is dry, off goes the gun. The ordinary method of handling these weapons is to place the lower end of the butt against the right breast, high enough to enable the curved end to rest against the cheek, and the eye to look down the large barrel, upon which there are ordinarily no sights. This method is sometimes varied by discharging the guns from the hip, and it is quite customary for the Hakka to lie flat on his back, place the muzzle between his toes, and, raising his head sufficiently to sight along the barrel, to take deliberate aim and fire. He is able to make good practice; while his presence, especially when surrounded by rank grass, is decidedly difficult to determine.\n\nRev. Dr. Mackay's Tamsui Mission Hospital, with Dr. Johansen in charge, which had rendered such great services to the Chinese wounded and had no doubt been the means of saving many lives, was visited on the 19th by General Sun, who thanked the doctor in charge as well as Dr. Browne of the Cockcliafer (who had given valuable assistance) for their attentions to the sick and wounded. The patients then numbered only a dozen, a good many of the wounded having left, fearing that the French might land again and kill them; others, seeing their wounds healing nicely, went away into the town. One man who had been shot through the left shoulder, in the region of the collar bone, after a week or ten days' treatment suddenly shouldered his rifle and left for the front, preferring life with his comrades to being confined in the hospital. It was supposed that the bullet had pierced the upper part of his lungs. Another instance occurred seven days after the French landing, when a Chinese walked into the hospital with his skull wounded and the brain visible. Several others, shot through the thighs and arms, bones being splintered in many pieces, bore their pain most heroically. Soon after the engagement, when there were seventy men in the hospital, some being badly wounded with as many as three shots apiece, there was scarcely a groan to be heard. One of the wounded came to the hospital after having had a bullet in his calf for nine or ten days. Dr. Browne extracted the bullet, and off the man went back to the front. Many other instances like the foregoing might be recorded, all of which indicated that the Chinese could recover in a few days from wounds, which, if not actually fatal, would have laid foreign soldiers up for months.\n— James Wheeler Davidson, \"The island of Formosa, past and present: History, people, resources, and commercial prospects. Tea, camphor, sugar, gold, coal, sulphur, economical plants, and other productions\", 1903, also published as \"The Island of Formosa: Historical View from 1430 to 1900\"\n\nLin Ch'ao-tung (林朝棟) was the leader of the Hakka militia recruited by Liu Ming-ch'uan.\n\nThe Hakka used their matchlock muskets to resist the Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895) and Han Taiwanese and Aboriginals conducted an insurgency against Japanese rule. The Beipu uprising, Tapani incident.\n\nDuring Japan's rule on Taiwan, Japan implemented anti-gun laws against the Taiwanese aborigines. This led to the outbreak of armed insurrection by Aboriginals against the Japanese in response to the Japanese confiscating Aboriginal guns. The Bunun and Atayal were described as the \"most ferocious\" Aboriginals, and police stations were targeted by Aboriginals in intermittent assaults. By January 1915, all Aboriginals in northern Taiwan were forced to hand over their guns to the Japanese, however head hunting and assaults on police stations by Aboriginals still continued after that year. Between 1921 and 1929 Aboriginal raids died down, but a major revival and surge in Aboriginal armed resistance erupted from 1930–1933 for four years during which the Wushe Incident occurred and Bunun carried out raids, after which armed conflict again died down. According to a 1933-year book, wounded people in the Japanese war against the Aboriginals numbered around 4,160, with 4,422 civilians dead and 2,660 military personnel killed. According to a 1935 report, 7,081 Japanese were killed in the armed struggle from 1896–1933 while the Japanese confiscated 29,772 Aboriginal guns by 1933. The Bunun Aboriginals under Chief Raho Ari 拉荷·阿雷 (lāhè· āléi) engaged in guerilla warfare against the Japanese for twenty years. Raho Ari's revolt, called the Dafen incident w:zh:大分事件 was sparked when the Japanese implemented a gun control policy in 1914 against the Aboriginals in which their rifles were impounded in police stations when hunting expeditions were over. The revolt began at Dafen when a police platoon was slaughtered by Raho Ari's clan in 1915. A settlement holding 266 people called Tamaho was created by Raho Ari and his followers near the source of the Laonong River and attracted more Bunun rebels to their cause. Raho Ari and his followers captured bullets and guns and slew Japanese in repeated hit and run raids against Japanese police stations by infiltrating over the Japanese \"guardline\" of electrified fences and police stations as they pleased.\n\nFirearms can be used by law enforcement, the military and paramilitary, or security personnel protecting property of state importance (including the arms industry, financial institutions, storage of resources, and scientific research institutions).\n\nCivilian ownership of firearms is largely restricted to non-individual entities such as sporting organisations, hunting reserves, and wildlife protection, management and research organizations. The chief exception to the general ban for individual gun ownership is for the purpose of hunting.\n\nIndividuals who hold hunting permits can apply to purchase and hold firearms for the purpose of hunting. Illegal possession or sale of firearms may result in a minimum punishment of 3 years in prison, with the maximum being the death penalty.\n\nThe possession of traditional smoothbore blackpowder muskets is allowed to some Miao hill people, the so-called Miao gun tribes, as an essential element of traditional dress and culture; however, possession of gunpowder is regulated.\n\nEven airsoft guns are tightly regulated and violation may lead to a criminal conviction for illegal possession of firearms.\n\nGuns and knives which were not logged and were unlawful were seized. Limitations were placed on knife vending due to terrorism and violent assaults where they were utilized.\n\nFirearm ownership in the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau is tightly controlled and possession is mainly in the hands of law enforcement, military, or private security firms (providing protection for jewelers and banks). Still, possessing, manufacturing, importing, or exporting airsoft guns with a muzzle energy not above two joules of kinetic energy is legal to citizens in China's SARs.\n\nFirearms control was inherited during British and Portuguese rule and more or less retained today. Under the Section 13 of Cap 238 Firearms and Ammunition Ordinance of the Hong Kong law, unrestricted firearms and ammunition requires a license. Those found in possession without a license could be fined HKD$100,000 and imprisonment for up to 14 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "55126581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55126581", "title": "Georgia House Bill 87", "text": "Georgia House Bill 87\n\nGeorgia House Bill 87 (official title: Illegal Immigration Reform and Enforcement Act of 2011; abbreviated HB 87) is an anti-illegal immigration act passed by the Georgia General Assembly on April 14, 2011, and signed into law by Georgia governor Nathan Deal on May 13, 2011. It took effect on July 1 of that year. The law was authored by Peachtree City Republican state representative Matt Ramsey, and was partly based on Arizona's SB 1070 bill that had passed the previous year. \nIn the Georgia House of Representatives, HB 87 was co-sponsored by Matt Ramsey, Rich Golick, Katie M. Dempsey, Rick Austin, Stephen Allison, and Ed Lindsey. In the Georgia State Senate, it was sponsored by Bill Hamrick.\nHB 87 requires businesses in Georgia with more than 10 employees to use E-Verify to verify that prospective employees are eligible to work in the United States legally. The bill allows police in the state to attempt to determine the immigration status of some suspects. It also makes the intentional transportation of undocumented immigrants while a crime is being committed punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 and a prison sentence of up to a year. In addition, it punishes undocumented workers convicted of using fake identification to gain employment with up to 15 years in prison and up to a $250,000 fine.\n\nCommentators noted that HB 87 was similar to other anti-illegal immigration laws that had recently been passed in other U.S. states, such as Arizona SB 1070. Some of HB 87's critics dubbed it a \"copycat\" of SB 1070, a claim that PolitiFact rated \"half true\" because, although the two laws are similar, the authors of HB 87 tried to address concerns about the constitutionality of such legislation. For instance, HB 87 merely allows police to check the immigration status of suspects, whereas SB 1070 required them to do so.\n\nWhen HB 87 was signed into law, it was widely described as one of the toughest such laws in the country. Multiple organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), also publicly raised the possibility of suing Georgia over the law. The bill was also criticized by the leaders of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the Georgia Latino Alliance for Human Rights. The government of Mexico also criticized Deal for signing the bill into law, saying in a statement that \"The legislators and state executive ignored the many contributions of the immigrant community to the economy and society of Georgia.\" Some critics, including Azadeh N. Shahshahani and Wade Henderson, criticized the bill on the basis that it would invite racial profiling of Latinos and other people of color. Other critics also criticized the law because they thought it would adversely effect trust in the police among immigrants.\n\nSupporters of the bill generally argued that it would benefit Georgia taxpayers by reducing the economic burdens associated with providing for undocumented immigrants in the state. Support for the bill came from conservative groups that support strict immigration laws, including Americans for Immigration Control, whose spokesman, Phil Kent, said that the bill was about protecting taxpayers from the costs of illegal immigration. Kent told CNN that \"We just want to make sure that people are welcome here and that they come here legally. And then we can cut back on the illegal immigration.\" The bill was also supported by Mark Krikorian of the Center for Immigration Studies, who said that in passing it, Georgia \"...seems to have addressed the top-priority matters a state can deal with,\" and by Catherine Davis, legislative director for the Network of Politically Active Christians, who told the \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" that the bill \"will stop unscrupulous behavior.\"\n\nHB 87 has since been criticized for allegedly having a negative impact on Georgia's economy, especially in the agricultural sector, because it decreased the number of undocumented workers who were available to work on farms in Georgia. A 2011 University of Georgia study showed that after the law, Georgia experienced a labor shortage of over 5,000 farm workers, which resulted in $140 million in crop losses. Similarly, according to the 2012 Georgia Ag Forecast, Georgia experienced an agricultural labor shortage of almost 50% after HB 87 was passed. An \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" survey, also conducted in 2011, estimated that farmers in Georgia would be short by about 11,000 workers during the upcoming season. When Jason Carter was running for governor of Georgia in the 2014 election, he criticized Deal for signing the law, saying that it had resulted in an \"economic disaster\" for the state and noting that he had voted against it in the state legislature. Deal responded that Georgians believed it was important to enforce the law, and that the bill had served to remind the federal government how important it was to address the issue of undocumented immigration.\n\nSome researchers have also expressed concern that the law may adversely affect public health among Hispanic immigrants in Georgia. For instance, a 2013 study found that visits to the pediatric emergency department among Hispanics in Georgia decreased after the law was implemented, while the acuity of these visits tended to increase; in contrast, no other group in Georgia saw these trends during the same time period.\n\nPrior to Governor Deal signing HB 87 into law, numerous protesters gathered outside his office at the Georgia State Capitol, and the group Southerners on New Ground called for a boycott of the state if the bill was enacted. On July 2, 2011, a rally took place outside the State Capitol to protest the law; the size of the crowd was estimated at between 8,000 and 14,000.\nOn June 2, 2011, the ACLU, the SPLC, the Asian Law Caucus, and the National Immigration Law Center filed a lawsuit challenging HB 87, arguing that it was preempted by federal law and was unconstitutional. In March 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit issued a permanent injunction which blocked multiple provisions of the law, including section 7, which made it illegal to transport or harbor undocumented immigrants while they were committing another crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "13798365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13798365", "title": "History of Icelandic nationality", "text": "History of Icelandic nationality\n\nThis article is about the history of Icelandic nationality.\n\nIn 930 AD, the constitution of Iceland was instituted which made Iceland a self-governing country with a people’s assembly called the Althing (\"alþingi\"). The Althing represented the people and met once a year to make laws and judge important cases. Matters of lesser importance were dealt with by local spring assemblies, regulated by local chiefs. The Althing was an important part of Icelandic culture and would be integral in their struggle to become an independent nation.\n\nIn 1262 Iceland swore allegiance to the king of Norway, and in 1380 was under the rule of the newly united kingdom of Norway and Denmark. Nevertheless, the Althing continued to control the national politics of Iceland due to the indifference of the monarch to its remote population. In 1660, Denmark became an absolutist state and the power of the Althing was diminished significantly. It now held mainly judicial functions, without any legislative power, but was finally abolished in 1800.\n\nThe nationalist movement in Iceland sprang from the romantic literary ideas of the Enlightenment such that nationalistic ideas were originally expressed in the literature of the period and were only later to be involved in the political events of the country.\n\nThe abolition of the Althing was a shock to the identity of Iceland. It had not only served as a legislative and judicial body but also had brought the Icelandic communities together annually which served as a unifying force in society. It had become an important part of Icelandic culture and tradition. In 1843, the Althing was successfully re-established as an advisory board to the Danish government, which was a great victory for Icelandic nationalism after what the Althing had come to symbolize for the community.\n\nIn 1851, the Althing proposed a separate constitution for Iceland, which resulted in the attempt of the Danish representatives to end the meeting, to the protest of the Icelanders. This was Iceland's first national conflict with Denmark in the political domain.\n\nBy 1871, Iceland was still part of the Danish kingdom; however, by this point in time nationalists had managed to pass a law allowing Iceland to trade with all nations (1854) and had liberalized its election laws (1857). Iceland as such had control over much of its own affairs, although still under Danish rule.\n\nA demand for their own constitution, giving legislative power to the Althing was granted in 1874, giving Iceland control of all internal affairs and in 1903 an Icelandic cabinet minister replaced the Danish governors. By 1918 Iceland became a sovereign state in union with Denmark, and in 1944 Iceland was declared a sovereign republic.\n\nImportance was placed on the idea that the new nation must be based on Icelandic ideas, and not imported ones from Europe. The traditions of the Icelandic people were to be used to guide the new republic, which hoped to develop independently from Europe, with emphasis on its distinctive culture and history.\n\nAncestry is considered by Icelandic nationality law to be the important factor in attaining citizenship, rather than place of birth. Therefore, one is not an Icelandic citizen just by being born in Iceland, but must be born of Icelandic parents.\n\nIn the late 19th century Iceland was faced with a series of natural disasters that forced one fifth of the population to emigrate to North America by 1914. The volcanic eruption of Askja left the North East of Iceland covered in ash, where the largest number of people were forced to leave the country. Poor harvests, due to harsh winters and cold summers, throughout the country also forced large populations to leave Iceland. Those descendants born outside of Iceland, or who acquired citizenship from the country they emigrated to would lose their Icelandic citizenship. Before 2003, dual citizenship was not permitted, therefore naturalizing in a foreign country would mean losing your Icelandic citizenship. Those people who lost their citizenship in this manner, however, were given the chance to reclaim Icelandic citizenship after 2003, but only until July 1, 2007. At present, those born outside of Iceland will lose their Icelandic citizenship by age twenty two if they do not live in Iceland before this time or do not apply to retain their citizenship. They do not need to give up their citizenship in their country of residence.\n\nPublic education is funded by the Icelandic government and is compulsory for students fifteen years and younger. Education is free for all citizens from the primary to the university level providing all citizens with the right to education. Children of refugees can be enrolled in public school after residing in the country for three months, providing education as a right not only for all citizens but also for all children in the country.\n\nPrenatal and infant medical care is provided without cost to all citizens, while health care for children is highly subsidized. Refugees also have access to the health care services provided by the state. Law provides the right of access to health care for all people who have been residing in the country for six months, regardless of nationality. Hospitalisation is free of charge, as well as long term care of the sick or elderly. Medication and treatment outside of hospitals requires the payment of specific fees, which are regulated by law.\n\nIn Iceland, women hold equal rights as men under judicial and family law. Men, however, are still paid more than women working in the same field. The Icelandic government helps to finance a variety of organizations and facilities to help women that are victims of violence. This aid is not restricted to citizens alone, but is open to all women, including immigrants who suffer from abuse. With regards to political representation, in 2005, there were 23 women sitting in parliament out of 63 seats, and 4 women in the cabinet, which has 12 members. 2 out of the 9 Supreme Court members were women so that in government office, women hold roughly one third of the seats.\n\nFreedom of speech is provided for by law, but public slander based on religion, race, nationality, sexual orientation or skin color is illegal and punishable by fines and imprisonment. Citizens, therefore, are provided the right to free speech, as long as it does not endanger or demean other people. The right to peaceful assembly and associations are also protected by the constitution, as well as freedom of religion. However, Lutheranism, the state religion, is provided with more funding than other religions and more priority in school curricula.\n\nThe main obligation to the state in Iceland is paying taxes. Anyone who lives in Iceland for six months or longer is considered a resident and is, therefore, subject to the states income taxes, as well as municipal taxes. This applies for both citizens and non-citizens. All permanent residents over the age of sixteen are considered taxpayers and are provided a tax card, which is used to calculate their contributions. If someone is planning on leaving the country, they must submit their tax return one month before their departure.\n\nIn 1946, Iceland joined the UN and as such became more involved in international affairs. Due to its strategic location for Trans-Atlantic flights, the United States took an interest in establishing an airbase in Keflavík, for the needs of post war occupation of Germany. Keflavík was located only 50 kilometers from the capital, Reykjavík, and as such there was fear that Icelandic culture would be compromised by this base. The attempts to establish a 99-year control of this base by the Americans were met with great political outcry, as many saw this base as selling Iceland and its independence.\n\nIn 1954, the American Defense Force were given permission to operate the first television station in Iceland. This station was intended for use by the American base only, but by 1959, there were already concerns since Icelandic citizens were able to receive the television signals. By 1964 the resistance to this station increased as many intellectuals feared that exposure to American television would be destructive to Icelandic language and culture as children became more influenced by American media. Politically it was seen as opposition to Icelandic sovereignty to allow a foreign country to operate an influential television station in Iceland, especially since it was in a foreign language. The American television station, as well as radio station, were therefore confined to the base and Icelandic radio stations and television stations became more numerous.\n\nIn 1956, a curfew was placed on the American servicemen requiring them to be in their base by ten o'clock, as a way to prevent their presence in the capital. American presence was seen as a threat to Icelandic culture and independence.\n\nIcelandic culture plays an important part in the national identity of the country and as such there have been several attempts to preserve it. One of the most important parts of this traditional culture are its sagas, which were passed down from the early Viking settlement of the island, and hold a strong significance towards national identity. In 1946, Halldor Laxness's novel \"Atom Station\", the theme was of American presence damaging the culture in the south as compared to the pure saga culture of the north, as well as the use of Iceland as a base for an atomic war.\n\nThe Althing was also viewed as a part of Icelandic culture due to its long tradition in Iceland and its use as a unifying force for the citizens of the country, as well as its status as the oldest parliament in the world.\n\nAnother aspect of culture held dear by many Icelanders is their history of non violence and neutrality. The idea of Iceland as an unarmed nation with no military force became a tradition which shaped the idea the population held about itself. It was this pacifism which stopped Iceland from joining the United Nations in 1944, and although it made contributions to the Allies, it would not declare war. When it did join the UN in 1946, the terms were that there would be no military bases in the country. The importance placed on pacifism was a significant part of Icelandic national identity. When Iceland decided to join NATO in 1949, it resulted in a riot outside the Althing as this decision broke the historical tradition of neutrality that was viewed as important to Icelandic heritage.\n\nLanguage was also an important factor in Icelandic nationality, where an emphasis was placed on making laws in their native language. A common language served as a unifying factor for Icelanders, as well as a way to distinguish themselves from the Danish and the laws of Denmark. The modern Icelandic language is very similar to that of the Middle Ages, not having changed drastically, making it a source of historical continuity and part of an ongoing perception of the nation. There has also been an attempt since the seventeenth century to keep the language free from influence of foreign words, which continued as a means to reassert independence. Foreign words were associated with foreign domination, creating a need to preserve the Icelandic language in while under Danish rule. New vocabulary brought in by the Danish or through Christianity, therefore, were originally met with distrust, and seen as a threat to their autonomy. A national flag was also essential to the image of Iceland as an independent nation, asserting its distinctiveness from Denmark.\n\nIn 1952 Iceland became part of the Nordic Council,an organization between Iceland, Norway, Finland, Denmark and Sweden which consists of a governing body and five national secretariats, that meet annually and is attended by parliament members of the five countries. The council does not have any formal authority, but instead serves as an advisory council to the various governments.\n\nIn 1975, Sweden gave the right to vote in local elections to foreigners from countries within the Nordic Council. Denmark allowed the same right in 1977, followed by Norway in 1978 and Finland in 1981. In 1986. Iceland also granted members of the Nordic Council the right to vote in local elections but only after 3 years of residence in the country. Therefore, Icelandic citizens were given the right to vote in local elections in all other countries who were part of the Nordic Council by 1981, providing its citizens with some political rights if they emigrated to these countries, even if they had not become citizens. Also after, three years, non-citizens in Iceland could vote if they came from a Nordic Country.\n\nSince May 2006, Iceland has opened its borders to workers that are part of the European Union, who are now able to enter Iceland without the need of a work permit. These workers are permitted to stay in Iceland for six months while looking for a job but once a job is found, the employer must inform the Directorate of Labour of the employment of a foreigner. Because of this policy, the population of foreigners in Iceland has risen from 1.4% in 1985 to almost 7% in 2006.\n\nThese workers are paid the same as the Icelandic population in jobs with fixed rates, but in jobs such as trades, they are commonly paid less. These foreigners are mostly males looking for employment, and 64% of the recent immigrants work in construction.\n\nPreference is given to EU members over non-Europeans and therefore it is more difficult for non-Europeans to find work in Iceland as employers must prove that the job was advertised in the EU before a work permit can be given to a non-European. This causes a problems for non-Europeans already residing in Iceland, who are faced with more difficulty when attempting to bring family into the country. Non-Europeans must find jobs for their family members before they would be allowed to enter the country, and since preference is given to members of the European Union, finding jobs becomes more problematic.\n\nNordic Country members do not require any form of travel document or work permit to enter the country and are also provided the right to remain in Iceland for more than six months by providing a Nordic change of residence certificate.\n\nCitizens of countries from the EU also do not require a visa and are able to stay in Iceland for six months while looking for work. They must prove, however, that they have the means to support themselves while looking for work in the country or while studying.\n\nMembers of countries outside of the EU and Nordic Countries, however, require a passport to enter the country, and if they intend to find employment they also require a visa. When applying for residence the person must provide proof that they have health insurance and have the means to support themselves, as well as proof of a place of residence for their stay in Iceland. They must also provide their criminal record, proving they are not a criminal, before they will be permitted in the country. It is, therefore, more difficult for members outside of the EU and the Nordic Countries to gain entrance into Iceland.\n\n"}
{"id": "312310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312310", "title": "Hue and cry", "text": "Hue and cry\n\nIn common law, a hue and cry is a process by which bystanders are summoned to assist in the apprehension of a criminal who has been witnessed in the act of committing a crime.\n\nBy the Statute of Winchester of 1285, 13 Edw. I cc. 1 and 4, it was provided that anyone, either a constable or a private citizen, who witnessed a crime shall make hue and cry, and that the hue and cry must be kept up against the fleeing criminal from town to town and from county to county, until the felon is apprehended and delivered to the sheriff. All able-bodied men, upon hearing the shouts, were obliged to assist in the pursuit of the criminal, which makes it comparable to the \"posse comitatus\". It was moreover provided that \"the whole hundred … shall be answerable\" for any theft or robbery, in effect a form of collective punishment. Those who raised a hue and cry falsely were themselves guilty of a crime.\n\nThe oath of office for constables in Tennessee specifically mentions that it is the duty of the constable to sound the hue and cry.\n\nIt is possible that the term is an Anglicization via Anglo-French of the Latin ', meaning \"a horn and shouting\". Other sources indicate that it has always been a somewhat redundant phrase meaning an outcry and cry, though such \"redundancy\" is a feature of the legal doublet. \"Hue\" appears to come from the Old French ', which means \"to shout\", and \"cry\" from Old French \"\" (\"to cry\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38961293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38961293", "title": "Immigration Ordinance", "text": "Immigration Ordinance\n\nThe Immigration Ordinance is Chapter 115 of Hong Kong's Ordinances. It regulates the immigration issues of Hong Kong such as Right of Abode, immigration control, enforcement of illegal immigration by Immigration Department, etc...\n\nFirst introduced in 1971 (as Cap 55), it replaced a number of smaller ordinances that dealt with immigration control from China into Hong Kong:\n\n\nThe previous ordinances reflected the flow of immigration prior to establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949 which resulted in a large movement of immigrants and illegal immigration from the 1950s onwards.\n\nThis ordinance is often cited in controversial policies and restrictive nature of immigration in Hong Kong especially in regards to right of abode to non-Chinese immigrants after amendments in 1987 to deal with post-handover Hong Kong.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56505579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56505579", "title": "Italo-Soviet Pact", "text": "Italo-Soviet Pact\n\nThe Pact of Friendship, Neutrality, and Nonaggression between Italy and the Soviet Union, also known as the Italo-Soviet Pact, was a diplomatic agreement between the Soviet Union and the Kingdom of Italy. Signed on 2 September 1933, the agreement was in place until 22 June 1941 when Italy joined Nazi Germany in declaring war on the Soviet Union as part of the Axis powers during the Second World War. The pact built on earlier economic relations (traditionally strong between the countries), seeking to ensure security in the Balkans and for a time mutual suspicion of German intentions.\n\nThe Soviet Union and Italy had maintained contacts since 26 December 1921 and full diplomatic relations since 7 February 1924, making Mussolini's Italy the first Western nation to recognize the Soviet Union. Some members of the Italian Communist Party, such as Luigi Tolentino from Palermo lived in exile in the Soviet Union, which caused some political friction and accusations of harbouring \"subversives.\" On 6 May 1933, the two moved closer together by agreeing an economic pact supporting industrialisation goals; Italy required access to Soviet oil and coal, while the Soviets were interested in Italian innovations in the aviation, automobile and naval industries. The ideological controversy between Fascism and Bolshevism was largely considered as an internal matter and relations were built up nevertheless.\n\nReports in the \"Telegraph Agency of the Soviet Union\" were keen to stress the military aspect of this. In September 1933, a Soviet military mission visited Rome and Vladimir Petrovich Potemkin who served as Soviet Ambassador to Italy from 1932 until 1934, expressed \"gratitude for the exceptional attention devoted to the Soviet mission by the Italian command and government,\" while a general from the Italian military stated, \"the Italian Army has feelings which go deeper than the usual professional ones toward the Red Army. These feelings have been strengthened as a result of the Italo-Soviet Pact.\"\n\nPotemkin sent an invite to the Undersecretary of State, Fulvio Suvich, for an Italian mission to visit the Soviet Union in return. Representatives of the Italian Army and the Italian Navy, including a Brigadier General, toured the Soviet Union for two weeks, though the Italian Air Force did not as Italo Balbo blocked the plan. There were further friendly exchanges in 1933 as an Italian submarine visited Batum on the Black Sea and three Soviet vessels visited Naples. This was in preparation for the visit of Maxim Litvinov. There were plans that captains from the Red Fleet would meet Benito Mussolini, but in the end this did not happen.\n\nThese developments also coincided with Adolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany and as there was an element of uncertainty not only between the Soviets and Germany at the time, but also Italy and Germany (not least over the issue of the potential annexation of Austria and furthermore Italian-controlled territories in South Tyrol). A third element to this relationship was the Turkish Republic. While the Soviet ships were in Naples, the Turkish Ambassador to Italy made a visit to the Soviet admiral on board. A potential Soviet-Italian-Turkish stability alliance troubled Berlin. Bernardo Attolio, who had been the Italian Ambassador to Moscow in 1930 and helped to pave the way for the 1932 agreement, called the military contacts a \"tradition\" and mutually beneficial, in that it helped to build Italian military and technological prestige. In the aftermath of these exchanges, Mussolini mobilised Italian troops in the summer of 1934 and had them placed on the Brenner Pass, aiming to ensure Austrian independence against the July Putsch.\n\nUnlike the Stresa Front (Italy's brief agreements with the United Kingdom and France in 1935), Italo-Soviet relations weathered the political controversy in the League of Nations which followed the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, as economic relations continued unabated with the Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226125", "title": "Legalism (Chinese philosophy)", "text": "Legalism (Chinese philosophy)\n\nFajia () or Legalism is one of Sima Tan's six classical schools of thought in Chinese philosophy. Roughly meaning \"house of Fa\" (administrative \"methods\" or \"standards\"), the \"school\" (term) represents some several branches of realistic statesmen or \"men of methods\" (fashu zishi) foundational for the traditional Chinese bureaucratic empire. Compared with Machiavelli, it has often been considered in the Western world as akin to the Realpolitikal thought of ancient China. Largely ignoring morality or questions on how a society ideally should function, they examined contemporary government; emphasizing a realistic consolidation of the wealth and power of autocrat and state, with the goal of achieving increased order, security and stability. Having close ties with the other schools, some would be a major influence on Taoism and Confucianism, and the current remains highly influential in administration, policy and legal practice in China today. \n\nThough Chinese administration cannot be traced to any one person, emphasizing a merit system administrator Shen Buhai (c. 400 BC – c. 337 BC) may have had more influence than any other, and might be considered its founder, if not valuable as a rare pre-modern example of abstract theory of administration. Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel sees in Shen Buhai the \"seeds of the civil service examination\", and, if one wished to exaggerate, the first political scientist. The correlation between Shen's conception of the inactive (Wu wei) ruler responsible for examination into performance, claims and titles likely also informed the Taoist conception of the formless Tao (name that cannot be named) that \"gives rise to the ten thousand things.\"\n\nConcerned largely with administrative and sociopolitical innovation, Shang Yang (390–338 BC) was a leading reformer of his time. His numerous reforms transformed the peripheral Qin state into a militarily powerful and strongly centralized kingdom. Much of Legalism was \"principally the development of certain ideas\" that lay behind his reforms, and it was these that helped lead to Qin's ultimate conquest of the other states of China in 221 BC.\n\nShen's most famous successor Han Fei (c. 280 – 233 BC) synthesized the thought of the other \"Fa-Jia\" in his eponymous text, the \"Han Feizi\". Written around 240 BC, the \"Han Feizi\" is commonly thought of as the greatest of all Legalist texts, and is believed to contain the first commentaries on the Tao te Ching in history. The grouping together of thinkers that would eventually be dubbed \"Fa-Jia\" or \"Legalists\" can be traced to him, and \"The Art of War\" would seem to incorporate Taoist philosophy of inaction and impartiality, and Legalist punishment and rewards as systematic measures of organization, recalling Han Fei's concepts of power (shi) and tactics (shu). Attracting the attention of the First Emperor, It is often said that succeeding emperors followed the template set by Han Fei.\n\nCalling them the \"theorists of the state\", sinologist Jacques Gernet considered the Legalists/Fa-Jia to be the most important tradition of the fourth and third centuries BC, the entire period from the Qin dynasty to Tang being characterized by its centralizing tendencies and economic organization of the population by the state. The Han dynasty took over the governmental institutions of the Qin dynasty almost unchanged. Endorsement for the \"school\" of thought peaked under Mao Zedong, hailed as a \"progressive\" intellectual current.\n\nThe Zhou dynasty was divided between the masses and the hereditary noblemen. The latter were placed to obtain office and political power, owing allegiance to the local prince, who owed allegiance to the Son of Heaven. The dynasty operated according to the principles of Li and punishment. The former was applied only to aristocrats, the latter only to commoners.\n\nThe earliest Zhou kings kept a firm personal hand on the government, depending on their personal capacities, personal relations between ruler and minister, and upon military might. The technique of centralized government being so little developed, they deputed authority to feudal lords. When the Zhou kings could no longer grant new fiefs, their power began to decline, vassals began to identify with their own regions, and schismatic hostility occurred between the Chinese states. Aristocratic families became very important, by virtue of their ancestral prestige wielding great power and proving a divisive force.\n\nIn the Spring and Autumn (771–476 BC) period, rulers began to directly appoint state officials to provide advice and management, leading to the decline of inherited privileges and bringing fundamental structural transformations as a result of what may be termed \"social engineering from above.\" Most Warring States period thinkers tried to accommodate a \"changing with the times\" paradigm, and each of the schools of thought sought to provide an answer for the attainment of sociopolitical stability.\n\nConfucianism, commonly considered to be China's ruling ethos, was articulated in opposition to the establishment of legal codes, the earliest of which were inscribed on bronze vessels in the sixth century BC. For the Confucians, the Classics provided the preconditions for knowledge. Orthodox Confucians tended to consider organizational details beneath both minister and ruler, leaving such matters to underlings, and furthermore wanted ministers to control the ruler.\n\nConcerned with \"goodness\", the Confucians became the most prominent, followed by the proto-Taoists and the administrative thought that Sima Tan termed the Fa-Jia. But the Taoists focused on the development of inner powers, and both the Taoists and Confucians held a regressive view of history, the age being a decline from the era of the Zhou kings.\n\nA new type of ruler emerged intent on breaking the power of the aristocrats and reforming their state's bureaucracies. Those that failed were conquered or deposed. As disenfranchised or opportunist aristocrats were increasingly attracted by the reform-oriented rulers, they brought with them philosophy concerned foremost with organizational methodology. Successful reforms made the so-called \"Fa-Jia\" significant, promoting the rapid growth of the Qin state that applied reforms most thoroughly.\n\nThe goal of the Fa-Jia ruler was conquest and unification of all under heaven (or in the case of Shen Buhai at least defense), and the writings of Han Fei and other Fa-Jia are almost purely practical, eschewing ethics in favour of strategy teaching the ruler techniques (shu) to survive in a competitive world through administrative reform: strengthening the central government, increasing food production, enforcing military training, or replacing the aristocracy with a bureaucracy. Han Fei's prince must make use of Fa (administrative methods and standards), surround himself with an aura of wei (majesty) and shi (authority, power, influence), and make use of the art (shu) of statecraft. The ruler who follows Tao moves away from benevolence and righteousness, and discards reason and ability, subduing the people through Fa (statutes). Only an absolute ruler can restore the world.\n\nThough Han Fei espoused that his model state would increase quality of life, he did not consider this a legitimizing factor (rather, a side-effect of good order). He focused on the functioning of the state, the ruler's role as guarantor within it, and aimed in particular at making the state strong and the ruler the strongest person within it. To this end, Shen Buhai and successor Han Fei are concerned in particular with \"the role of the ruler and the means by which he may control a bureaucracy.\" \n\nThough the syncretic \"Han Feizi\" speaks on what may be termed law, so-called Legalists were concerned not mainly with law, but with administration. It has implications for the work of judges, but \"contains no explicit judicial theory\", and is motivated \"almost totally from the ruler's point of view.\" Even the more \"Legalistic\" \"Book of Lord Shang\" still engages statutes more from an administrative standpoint, as well as addressing many other administrative questions.\n\nThe authority to make policy is a basic difference between Confucianism and the Fa-Jia. Proposing a return to feudal ideals, albeit his nobleman being anyone who possessed virtue, Confucians granted authority to \"wise and virtuous ministers\", allowed to \"govern as they saw fit\". Shen Buhai and Shang Yang monopolized policy in the hands of the ruler, and Qin administrative documents focus on rigorous control of local officials, and the keeping of written records. Distinguished by their anti-ministerial stance, the Fa-Jia rejected their Confucian contemporaries' espousal of a regime based solely on the charisma of the aristocrats, much of their doctrines seeking self-regulating and mechanically reliable, if not foolproof means to control or otherwise dispense with officials administering the state. Reducing the human element, the first of these is the universally applicable Fa (administrative methods and standards).\n\nShen Buhai and his philosophical successor Han Fei considered the ruler to be in a situation of constant danger from his aides, and the target of Han Fei's standards in particular are the scholarly bureaucracy and ambitious advisers – the Confucians. Saying that \"superior and inferior fight a hundred battles a day\", long sections of the \"Han Feizi\" provide example of how ministers undermined various rules, and focus on how the ruler can protect himself against treacherous ministers, emphatically emphasizing their mutually different interests.\n\nThough not exceptional, Sinologist Yuri Pines considers this selfish view of human nature to be a pillar of the Fa-Jia, and a number of chapters of the \"Book of Lord Shang\" consider men naturally evil. The Fa-Jia are therefore distinct from the Confucians (apart from their emphasis on Fa) in dismissing the possibility of reforming the elite, that being the ruler and ministers, or driving them by moral commitment. Every member of the elite pursues his own interests. Preserving and strengthening the ruler's authority against these may be considered the Fa-Jia's \"singularly pronounced political commitment\". On rare occasions, Han Fei lauds such qualities as benevolence and proper social norms; with due consideration for the times they were living in however, the Fa-Jia did not believe that the moral influence or virtue of the ruler was powerful enough to create order. \n\nConsidering the power struggle between ruler and minister irreconcilable, and focusing on the prevention of evil rather than the promotion of good, the Fa-Jia largely rejected the utility of both virtue and the Confucian rule of man, insisting on impersonal norms and regulations in their relations. Their approach of was therefore primarily at the institutional level, aiming for a clear power structure, consistently enforced rules and regulations, and in the Han Feizi, engaging in sophisticated manipulation tactics to enhance power bases.\n\nRather than aristocratic fiefs, Qin territory came under the direct control of the Qin rulers, directly appointing officials on the basis of their qualifications. With the state of Qin conquering all the Warring States and founding the \"first\" Chinese empire in 221 BC, the Fa-Jia had succeeded in propelling state centralization and laying the foundations of Chinese bureaucracy, establishing \"efficient and effective\" codes that \"became the pattern for Chinese politics for the next two millennia.\" The philosophies of the reformers fell with the Qin, but tendencies remained in the supposedly Confucian imperial government, and the Han Feizi would be studied by rulers in every dynasty.\n\nR. Eno of Indiana University writes that \"If one were to trace the origins of Legalism as far back as possible, it might be appropriate to date its beginnings to the prime ministership of Guan Zhong (720–645 BC)\", who \"may be seen as the source of the notion that good government involved skilled systems design.\" The reforms of Guan Zhong applied levies and economic specializations at the village level instead of the aristocracy, and shifted administrative responsibility to professional bureaucrats. He valued education.\n\nGuan Zhong and later Mozi recommended objective, reliable, easily used, publicly accessible standards, or models, opposing what Sinologist Chad Hansen terms the \"cultivated intuition of self-admiration societies\", expert at chanting old texts. For Guan Zhong, Fa could complement any traditional scheme, and he uses Fa alongside the Confucian Li (the unique principles or standards of things, being their determinant and differentiating them), which he still valued. What Fa made possible was the accurate following of instructions. With minimal training, anyone can use Fa to perform a task or check results. In principle, if their roots in Guan Zhong and Mozi are considered, the Legalists might all be said to use Fa in the same (administrative) fashion.\n\nThe Mohists advocated a unified, utilitarian ethical and political order, posting some of its first theories and initiating philosophical debate in China. To unify moral standards, they supported a \"centralized, authoritarian state led by a virtuous, benevolent sovereign managed by a hierarchical, merit-based bureaucracy\". That social order is paramount seems to be implicit, recognized by all. They argued against nepotism, and, as with the later Fa \"philosophers\", for universal standards (or meritocracy) as represented by the centralized state, saying \"If one has ability, then he is promoted. If he has no ability, then he is demoted. Promoting public justice and casting away private resentments – this is the meaning of such statements.\"\n\nOften compared with Plato, the hermeneutics of the Mohists contained the philosophical germs of what Sima-Tan would term the \"Fa-School\" (\"Legalists\"), contributing to the political thought of contemporary reformers. The Mohists and the Guanzi text attributed to Guan Zhong are of particular importance to understanding Fa, meaning \"to model on\" or \"to emulate\". Dan Robins of the University of Hong Kong considers Fa to have become \"important in early Chinese philosophy largely because of the Mohists\".\n\nOf particular concern for the Fa-Jia and the Mohists, the fourth century witnessed the emergence of discussions polarizing the concepts of self and private, commonly used in conjunction with profit and associated with fragmentation, division, partiality, and one-sidelines, with that of the state and \"public\", represented by the duke and referring to what is official or royal, that is, the ruler himself, associated with unity, wholeness, objectivity, and universality. The later denotes the \"Universal Way\". Legalism and Mohism are distinguished by this effort to obtain objectivity.\n\nMohist and Legalist thought is not based on entities, transcendentals or universals, but parts or roles (\"names\"), and are therefore relatable to the Confucian rectification of names, which arguably originates in Mozi's development of Fa. For the most part Confucianism does not elaborate on Fa (though Han Confucians embraced Fa as an essential element in administration), though the idea of norms themselves being older, Fa is theoretically derived from the Confucian Li. \n\nRejecting the Confucian idea of parents as a moral model as particular and unreliable, the driving idea of the Mohists was the use of Hermeneutics to find objective models/standards (Fa) for ethics and politics, as was done in any practical field, to order or govern society. These were primarily practical rather than principles or rules, as in the square and plumb-line. The Mohists used Fa as \"objective, particularly operational or measurement-like standards for fixing the referents of names\", hoping that analysis of language standards (Fa) would yield some objective way (dao) of moral reform. For Mozi, if language is made objective, then language itself could serve as a source of information and argued that in any dispute of distinctions, one party must be right and one wrong.\n\nWhile other terms might denote mere command, in comparison to the Western concept of law, the essential characteristic of Fa is measurement. Mozi considered the elucidation of different \"types\" or \"classes\" to be the basis of both cognitive thinking and sociopolitical practice. Referring to an easily projectable standard of utility, the Guanzi Mohists explain \"Fa\" as compasses or circles, and may be prototypes, exemplars, or (specific) analogies. \n\nFa is never merely arbitrary or the ruler's desire, nor does it aim at an intellectual grasp of a definition or principle, but the practical ability to perform a task (dao) successfully, or to \"do something correctly in practice\" — and in particular, to be able to distinguish various kinds of things from one another. Measuring to determine whether distinctions have been drawn properly, Fa compares something against itself, and judges whether the two are similar, just as with the use of the compass or the L-square. What matches the standard is then the particular object, and thus correct. This constituted the basic conception of Mohist's practical reasoning and knowledge.\n\nMozi said, \"Those in the world who perform tasks cannot do without models (Fa) and standards. There is no one who can accomplish their task without models and standards. Even officers serving as generals or ministers, they all have models; even the hundred artisans performing their tasks, they too all have models. The hundred artisans make squares with the set square, circles with the compass, straight lines with the string, vertical lines with the plumb line, and flat surfaces with the level. Whether skilled artisans or unskilled artisans, all take these five as models. The skilled are able to conform to them. The unskilled, though unable to conform to them, by following them in performing their tasks still surpass what they can do by themselves. Thus the hundred artisans in performing their tasks all have models to measure by. Now, for the greatest to order (zhi, also 'govern') the world and those the next level down to order great states without models to measure by, this is to be less discriminating than the hundred artisans.\"\n\nDespite the framing of Han historians, the Fa-Jia did not seem to think they were using Fa differently than anyone else, and the influence of the Mohists is likely strong. All of the Fa-Jia would adopt its usage. Though Harvard professor Masayuki Sato translates Fa as law, he explains the concept as more like an objective measuring device. Sinologist Mark Edward Lewis writes: language, such as that of a legal code, is linked to social control. If words are not correct, they do not correspond to reality, and regulation fails. \"Law\" is \"purified\", rectified, or technically regulated language. For Shen Buhai, correct or perverse words will order or ruin the state. Han Fei may also have borrowed his views on human nature from the Mohists.\n\nHan Fei credits Shang Yang with the practice of Fa in statecraft, to which Shang Yang and Han Fei intended their \"legal codes\" (Fa) be as \"self-interpreting\"(Hansen). Shang Yang's systematic application of penalties increase the tendency to see it as penal, but arguably does not change meaning from that of the Mohists. Shang Yang's innovation was not penal law. Rather, Shang Yang's idea was that penal codes should be reformed to have the same kind of objectivity, clarity and accessibility as the craft-linked instruments. Contrasting Fa with private distortions and behavior, theoretically, their Fa exactly follows Mozi. Shang Yang was supposedly taught by a Confucian syncretist, Shi Jiao, who, stressing the importance of \"name\" (rectification of names), connected it with reward and punishment.\n\nApplied to economy and institution, Shang Yang's Fa is total and anti-bureaucratic, calculating rank mathematically from the adherence to standards (Fa) in the performance of roles (models), namely that of soldiers and (to a lesser extent) farmers. Han Fei shows no revolutionary insight into rules; objectively-determined \"models\" (Fa) or \"names\" (titles/roles), being measured against, replace intuitive guidance, especially that of the ruler. It is these that enable control of a bureaucracy. Carine Defoort of New York university explains:\n\nBecause Fa is necessary for articulating administrative terms, it is presupposed in any application of punishment, and Han Fei stressed measurement-like links between rewards and punishments and performance. Applied through incentives and disincentives, Fa provided guidance for behaviour, the performance of civil and military roles, and advancement. \n\nAn example of excavated Qin texts consists of twenty-five abstract model patterns guiding procedure, based on actual situations.\n\nFeng Youlan and Liang Qichao describe the elements of the Fa-Jia as Fa (often translated as law, but closer to \"standards\" or \"method\"), authority or power (Shih), and \"technique\" (Shu), that is, statecraft or \"the art of conducting affairs and handling men.\" Less well defined compared to Confucianism and Mohism, it is unclear when the Fa-Jia came to be regarded as an intellectual faction, only forming a complex of ideas around the time of Li Si (280–208 BC), elder advisor to the First Emperor. While the earliest Legalistic act can be traced to Zichan (and with him Deng Xi), Chinese scholar K. C. Hsiao and Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel considered the Fa-jia to have stemmed from two disparate contemporary thinkers, as described by Han Fei:\n\nIn contrast to Shen Buhai and the old feudalism, Shang or Gongsun Yang considered there to be no single model of rule in the past, and everything changeable as a product of changing conditions; holding decline to have resulted from a scarcity of resources, he prescribed statecraft. Questioning traditional rule and the relevance of the past to the present, the first chapter of the Book of Lord Shang cites Gongsun as saying: \"Orderly generations did not [follow] a single way; to benefit the state, one need not imitate antiquity\". Distinguished by his heavy emphasis on penalty and mutual responsibility (among both minister and population), he instituted severe punishment for the Qin (later reduced). \n\nGongsun ultimately did not believe that the method of rule really mattered as long as the state was rich, and tried to dispense with the selection of exceptional men through insurance mechanisms while attacking moral discussion as empowering ministers. His anti-bureaucracy may be seen as a precursor to that of Han Fei, and together with their predecessor Mozi may be characterized as following a philosophical tradition of \"objective, public, accessible standards\" (Fa). The Shang Yang school was favored, though not exclusively, by Emperor Wu of Han. \n\nIn contrast to Shang Yang, though seeking at the motivation of his subjects, Han Fei is much more skeptical of self-interest. His other predecessor, Shen Buhai and with it his branch, sometimes even opposed punishments. Han Fei combined the branches. This combination is commonly known as the Fa-Jia. Because, historically, the branches did not endorse each other's views, Creel often called the Shen Buhai group \"administrators\", \"methodists\" or \"technocrats.\" The \"Cambridge History of China\" nominally accepts this division, but Shen Buhai is still not widely precluded from the use of the term \"Legalist\", Han Fei calling both the \"instruments of Kings and Emperors\" and Li Si praised them equally, finding no contradiction between them.\n\nSinologist Chad Hansen describes their difference thusly: \"Shen Buhai's shu (\"techniques\") limit the ministers influence on the ruler; Shang Yang's fa controls their power over the people.\" \n\nThe scholar Shen Dao (350 – c. 275 BC) covered a \"remarkable\" quantity of Legalist and Taoistic themes. Incorporated into the Han Feizi and \"The Art of War\", he nonetheless lacked a recognizable group of followers.\n\nHailing from Wei, as Prime Minister of the State of Qin Shang Yang or Gongsun Yang engaged in a \"comprehensive plan to eliminate the hereditary aristocracy\". Drawing boundaries between private factions and the central, royal state, he took up the cause of meritocratic appointment, stating \"Favoring one's relatives is tantamount to using self-interest as one's way, whereas that which is equal and just prevents selfishness from proceeding.\" \n\nAs the first of his accomplishments, historiographer Sima Qian accounts Gongsun as having divided the populace into groups of five and ten, instituting a system of mutual responsibility tying status entirely to service to the state. It rewarded office and rank for martial exploits, going to far as to organize women's militias for siege defense. The second accomplishment listed is forcing the populace to attend solely to agriculture (or women cloth production, including a possible sewing draft) and recruiting labour from other states. He abolished the old fixed landholding system (Fengjian) and direct primogeniture, making it possible for the people to buy and sell (usufruct) farmland, thereby encouraging the peasants of other states to come to Qin. The recommendation that farmers be allowed to buy office with grain was apparently only implemented much later, the first clear-cut instance in 243 BC. Infanticide was prohibited.\n\nGongsun deliberately produced equality of conditions amongst the ruled, a tight control of the economy, and encouraged total loyalty to the state, including censorship and reward for denunciation. Law was what the sovereign commanded, and this meant absolutism, but it was an absolutism of law as impartial and impersonal. Gongsun discouraged arbitrary tyranny or terror as destroying law. Emphasizing knowledge of the Fa among the people, he proposed an elaborate system for its distribution to allow them to hold ministers to it. He considered it the most important device for upholding the power of the state. Insisting that it be made known and applied equally to all, posting it on pillars erected in the new capital. In 350, along with the creation of the new capital, a portion of Qin was divided into thirty-one counties, each \"administered by a (presumably centrally appointed) magistrate\". This was a \"significant move toward centralizing Ch'in administrative power\" and correspondingly reduced the power of hereditary landholders. \n\nGongsun considered the sovereign to be a culmination in historical evolution, representing the interests of state, subject and stability. Objectivity was a primary goal for him, wanting to be rid as much as possible of the subjective element in public affairs. The greatest good was order. History meant that feeling was now replaced by rational thought, and private considerations by public, accompanied by properties, prohibitions and restraints. In-order to have prohibitions, it is necessary to have executioners, hence officials, and a supreme ruler. Virtuous men are replaced by qualified officials, objectively measured by Fa. The ruler should rely neither on his nor his officials' deliberations, but on the clarification of Fa. Everything should be done by Fa, whose transparent system of standards will prevent any opportunities for corruption or abuse. Shang Yang also corrected measures and weights.\n\nWhile Shen Buhai and Shen Dao's current may not have been hostile to Confucius, Shang Yang and Han Fei emphasize their rejection of past models as unverifiable if not useless (\"what was appropriate for the early kings is not appropriate for modern rulers\"). In the west, past scholars have argued that Shang Yang sought to establish the supremacy of what some have termed positive law at the expense of customary or \"natural\" law. Han Fei argued that the age of Li had given way to the age of Fa, with natural order giving way to social order and finally political order. Together with that of Xun Kuang, their sense of human progress and reason guided the Qin dynasty.\n\nIntending his Dao (way of government) to be both objective and publicly projectable, Han Fei argued that disastrous results would occur if the ruler acted on arbitrary, ad-hoc decision making, such as that based on relationships or morality which, as a product of reason, are \"particular and fallible\". Li, or Confucian customs, and rule by example are also simply too ineffective. The ruler cannot act on a case-by-case basis, and so must establish an overarching system, acting through Fa (administrative methods or standards). Fa is not partial to the noble, does not exclude ministers, and does not discriminate against the common people.\n\nLinking the \"public\" sphere with justice and objective standards, for Han Fei, the private and public had always opposed each other. Taking after Shang Yang he lists the Confucians among his \"five vermin\", and calls the Confucian teaching on love and compassion for the people the \"stupid teaching\" and \"muddle-headed chatter\", the emphasis on benevolence an \"aristocratic and elitist ideal\" demanding that \"all ordinary people of the time be like Confucius' disciples\". Moreover, he dismisses it as impracticable, saying that \"In their settled knowledge, the literati are removed from the affairs of the state... What can the ruler gain from their settled knowledge?\", and points out that \"Confucianism\" is not a unified body of thought.\n\nThe basic structure and operation of the traditional Chinese state was not \"legalistic\" as the term is commonly understood. Though persisting, pre-modern mainstream Chinese thinking never really accepted the role of law and jurisprudence or the Shang Yang wing of the Fa-Jia. The Fa-Jia's most important contribution lies in the organization and regulation of centralized, bureaucratic government. Sinologist Creel called its philosophy administrative for lack of a better term, considering it to have been founded by Shen Buhai (400–337 BC), who likely played an \"outstanding role in the creation of the traditional Chinese system of government\". \n\nShen was chancellor of Han for fifteen years (354–337 BC). The Huainanzi says that when Shen lived the officials of the state of Han were at cross-purposes and did not know what practices to follow; the legal system of Han was apparently confused, prohibiting uniform reward and punishment. It is not surprising then that no text identifies Shen Buhai with penal law. We have no basis to suppose that Shen advocated the doctrine of rewards and punishment (of Shang Yang, as Han Fei did), and Han Fei criticizes him for not unifying the laws. \n\nA teacher of Legalist Li Kui, the Confucian Bu Shang is cited for the principle of favouring talents over favouritism, becoming under the Mohists the principle of \"elevating the worthy and employing ability.\" Adhering thereto, Shen utilized the same category of method (Fa) as others of the Fa-Jia, but emphasized its use in secrecy for purposes of investigation and personnel control, concerning himself with methods (Fa) of (impersonal bureaucratic) administration (namely methods of appointment and performance measurement) or the ruler's role in the control thereof. He is famous for the dictum \"The Sage ruler relies on standards and does not rely on wisdom; he relies on technique, not on persuasions.\"\n\nWhat Shen appears to have realized is that the \"methods for the control of a bureaucracy\" could not be mixed with the survivals of feudal government, or staffed merely by \"getting together a group of 'good men, but rather must be men qualified in their jobs. He therefore emphasizes the importance of selecting able officials as much as Confucius did, but insists on \"constant vigilance over their performance\", never mentioning virtue. Well aware of the possibility of the loss of the ruler's position, and thus state or life, from said officials, Shen says:\n\nCompared with Shang Yang, Shen Buhai refers to the ruler in abstract terms: he is simply the head of a bureaucracy. In comparison with Han Fei though his system still required a strong ruler at the centre, emphasizing that he trust no one minister. Ideally, Shen Buhai's ruler had the widest possible sovereignty, was intelligent (if not a sage), had to make all crucial decisions himself, and had unlimited control of the bureaucracy. Shen largely recommended that rulers investigate their ministers' performance, checking his ministers' reports while remaining calm and secretive (Wu wei). The ruler promotes and demotes according to the match between 'performance' and proposal (Xing Ming).\n\nShen Buhai insisted that the ruler must be fully informed on the state of his realm, but couldn't afford to get caught up in details and was advised to listen to no one. Listening to his courtiers might interfere with promotions, and he does not, as Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel says, have the time to do so. The way to see and hear independently is the grouping together of particulars into categories using mechanical or operational method (Fa). On the contrary the ruler's eyes and hears will make him \"deaf and blind\" (unable to obtain accurate information). Seeing and hearing independently, the ruler is able to make decisions independently, and is, Shen says, able to rule the world thereby. \n\nApart from Shang Yang's doctrine of penalties and mutual spying and denouncement among ministers, Han Fei recommends the ruler should protect himself through careful employment of doctrines that had earlier been recommended by Shen Buhai. Because Fa has diverse meaning, for clarification Shen Buhai's successors often used the term \"Shu\" (technique) for his administrative method (Fa) and other techniques (such as \"Wu-wei\"), and thus 20th century philosopher Feng Youlan called Shen the leader of the group [in the Legalist school] emphasizing Shu, or techniques of government.\n\nLiu Xiang wrote that Shen Buhai advised the ruler of men use technique (shu) rather than punishment, relying on persuasion to supervise and hold responsible, though very strictly. Shu or Technique can easily be considered the most crucial element in controlling a bureaucracy. Shen's doctrines are described as concerned almost exclusively with the \"ruler's role and the methods by which he may control a bureaucracy\"; that is, its management and personnel control: the selection of capable ministers, their performance, the monopolization of power, and the control of and power relations between ruler and minister which he characterized as Wu Wei. The emphasis however is on \"scrutinizing achievement and on that ground alone to give rewards, and to bestow office solely on the basis of ability.\" Sinologist John Makeham characterizes Shu as \"the agency of several checking systems that together constituted Method (Fa)\", whose central principle is accountability.\n\nCreel believed the term originally had the sense of numbers, with implicit roots in statistical or categorizing methods, using record keeping in financial management as a numerical measure of accomplishment. He notes that command of finance was generally held by the head of government from the beginning of the Zhou dynasty; an example of auditing dates to 800 BC, and the practice of annual accounting solidified by the Warring States period and budgeting by the first century BC. In the Guanzi the artisan's Shu is explicitly compared to that of the good ruler. The History of the Han (Han shu) lists texts for Shu as devoted to \"calculation techniques\" and \"techniques of the mind\", and describes the Warring States period as a time when the shu arose because the complete tao had disappeared. Hsu Kai (920–974 AD) calls Shu a branch in, or components of, the great Tao, likening it to the spokes on a wheel. He defines it as \"that by which one regulates the world of things; the algorithms of movement and stillness.\" Mastery of techniques was a necessary element of sagehood.\n\nAnother example of Shu is Chuan-shu, or \"political maneuvering\". The concept of Ch'uan, or \"weighing\" figures in Legalist writings from very early times. It also figures in Confucian writings as at the heart of moral action, including in the Mencius and the Doctrine of the Mean. Weighing is contrasted with \"the standard\". Life and history often necessitate adjustments in human behavior, which must suit what is called for at a particular time. It always involves human judgement. A judge that has to rely on his subjective wisdom, in the form of judicious weighing, relies on Ch'uan. The Confucian Zhu Xi, who was notably not a restorationist, emphasized expedients as making up for incomplete standards or methods.\n\nA contemporary of Confucius, the logician Deng Xi (died 501 BC) was cited by Liu Xiang for the origin of the principle of Xing-Ming. Serving as a minor official in the state of Zheng, he is reported to have drawn up a code of penal laws. Associated with litigation, he is said to have argued for the permissibility of contradictory propositions, likely engaging in hair-splitting debates on the interpretation of laws, legal principles and definitions. Shen Buhai solves this through Wu wei, or not getting involved, making an official's words his own responsibility. Shen Buhai says, \"The ruler controls the policy, the ministers manage affairs. To speak ten times and ten times be right, to act a hundred times and a hundred times succeed – this is the business of one who serves another as minister; it is the not the way to rule.\" The correlation between Wu-wei and Xing-Ming likely informed the Taoist conception of the formless Tao that \"gives rise to the ten thousand things.\" \n\nIn the Han Dynasty secretaries of government who had charge of the records of decisions in criminal matters were called Xing-Ming, which Sima Qian (145 or 135 – 86 BC) and Liu Xiang (77–6 BC) attributed to the doctrine of Shen Buhai (400 – c. 337 BC). Liu Xiang goes as far as to define Shen Buhai's doctrine as Xing-Ming. Shen actually used an older, more philosophically common equivalent, ming-shih, linking the \"Legalist doctrine of names\" with the name and reality (ming shih) debates of the school of names – another school evolving out of the Mohists. Such discussions are also prominent in the Han Feizi, and the earliest literary occurrence for Xing-Ming, in the Zhan Guo Ce, is also in reference to the school of names. \n\nMing (\"name\") sometimes has the sense of speech – so as to compare the statements of an aspiring officer with the reality of his actions – or reputation, again compared with real conduct (xing \"form\" or shih \"reality\"). Two anecdotes by Han Fei provide examples: The Logician Ni Yue argued that a white horse is not a horse, and defeated all debaters, but was still tolled at the gate. In another, the chief minister of Yan pretended to see a white horse dash out the gate. All of his subordinates denied having seen anything, save one, who ran out after it and returned claiming to have seen it, and was thereby identified as a flatterer.\n\nShen Buhai's personnel control, or rectification of names (such as titles) worked thereby for \"strict performance control\" (Hansen) correlating claims, performances and posts. It would become a central tenant of both Legalist statecraft and its Huang-Lao derivatives. Rather than having to look for \"good\" men, ming-shih or xing-ming can seek the right man for a particular post, though doing so implies a total organizational knowledge of the regime. More simply though, it can allow ministers to \"name\" themselves through accounts of specific cost and time frame, leaving their definition to competing ministers. Claims or utterances \"bind the speaker to the realization a job (Makeham)\". This was the doctrine, with subtle differences, favoured by Han Fei. Favoring exactness, it combats the tendency to promise too much. The correct articulation of Ming is considered crucial to the realization of projects.\n\nIn Chinese Thought: An Introduction S.Y. Hsieh suggests a set of assumptions underlying the concept of (xing-ming).\n\nPlaying a \"crucial role in the promotion of the autocratic tradition of the Chinese polity\", what is termed Wu wei (or nonaction) would become the political theory of the Fa-Jia, if not becoming their general term for political strategy. The (qualified) non-action of the ruler ensures his power and the stability of the polity, and can therefore be considered his foremost technique. The \"conception of the ruler's role as a supreme arbiter, who keeps the essential power firmly in his grasp\" while leaving details to ministers, would have a \"deep influence on the theory and practice of Chinese monarchy.\" Following Shen Buhai strongly advocated by Han Fei, during the Han dynasty up until the reign of Han Wudi rulers confined their activity \"chiefly to the appointment and dismissal of his high officials\", a plainly \"Legalist\" practice inherited from the Qin dynasty.\n\nLacking any metaphysical connotation, Shen used the term Wu wei to mean that the ruler, though vigilant, should not interfere with the duties of his ministers, acting through administrative method. Shen says: \nThough not a conclusive argument against proto-Taoist influence, Shen's Buhai's Taoist terms do not show evidence of explicit Taoist usage (Confucianism also uses terms like \"Tao\", or Wu wei), lacking any metaphysical connotation. The \"Han Feizi\" has a commentary on the Tao Te Ching, but references Shen Buhai rather than Laozi for Wu wei. Since the bulk of both the Tao Te Ching and the Zhuangzhi appear to have been composed later, Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel argued that it may therefore be assumed that Shen Buhai influenced them..\n\nShen Buhai argued that if the government were organized and supervised relying on proper method (Fa), the ruler need do little – and must do little. Unlike Legalists Shang Yang and Han Fei, Shen did not consider the relationship between ruler and minister antagonistic necessarily. Apparently paraphrasing the Analects, Shen Buhai's statement that those near him will feel affection, while the far will yearn for him, stands in contrast to Han Fei, who considered the relationship between the ruler and ministers irreconcilable.\n\nHowever, Shen still believed that the ruler's most able ministers are his greatest danger, and is convinced that it is impossible to make them loyal without techniques. Creel explains: \"The ruler's subjects are so numerous, and so on alert to discover his weaknesses and get the better of him, that it is hopeless for him alone as one man to try to learn their characteristics and control them by his knowledge... the ruler must refrain from taking the initiative, and from making himself conspicuous – and therefore vulnerable – by taking any overt action.\" \n\nShen Buhai portrays the ruler as putting up a front to hide his dependence on his advisers. Aside from hiding the ruler's weaknesses, Shen's ruler therefore makes use of method (Fa) in secrecy. Even more than with Han Fei, Shen Buhai's ruler's strategies are a closely guarded secret, aiming for a complete independence that challenges \"one of the oldest and most sacred tenets of (Confucianism),\" that of respectfully receiving and following ministerial advice.\n\nThough espousing an ultimate inactive end, the term does not appear in the \"Book of Lord Shang\", ignoring it as an idea for control of the administration.\n\nShen's ruler plays no active role in governmental functions. He should not use his talent even if he has it. Not using his own skills, he is better able to secure the services of capable functionaries. However, Sinologist Herrlee G. Creel also argues that not getting involved in details allowed Shen's ruler to \"truly rule\", because it leaves him free to supervise the government without interfering, maintaining his perspective.\n\nIn theory, the use of techniques requires the ruler not engage in any interference or subjective consideration. Sinologist John Makeham explains: \"assessing words and deeds requires the ruler's dispassionate attention; (yin is) the skill or technique of making one's mind a tabula rasa, non-committaly taking note of all the details of a man's claims and then objectively comparing his achievements of the original claims.\"\n\nA commentary to the Shiji cites a now-lost book as quoting Shen Buhai saying: \"By employing (yin), 'passive mindfulness', in overseeing and keeping account of his vassals, accountability is deeply engraved.\" The Guanzi similarly says: \"Yin is the way of non-action. Yin is neither to add to nor to detract from anything. To give something a name strictly on the basis of its form – this is the Method of yin.\" \n\nYin also aimed at concealing the ruler's intentions, likes and opinions. Shen advises the ruler to keep his own counsel, hide his motivations and conceal his tracks in inaction, availing himself of an appearance of stupidity and insufficiency. \n\nSaid obscuration was to be achieved together with the use of Method (Fa). Not acting himself, he can avoid being manipulated.\n\nDespite such injunctions, it is clear that the ruler's assignments would still be completely up to him.\n\nShen Dao argued for Wu wei in similar manner to Shen Buhai, saying\nShen Dao also espouses an impersonal administration in much the same sense as Shen Buhai, and in contrast with Shang Yang emphasizes the use of talent and the promotion of ministers, saying that order and chaos are \"not the product of one man's efforts\". Along this same line however he challenges the Confucian and Mohist esteem and appointment of worthies as a basis of order, pointing out that talented ministers existed in every age. \n\nTaking it upon himself to attempt a new, analytical solution, Shen advocated fairness as a new virtue, eschewing Shen Buhai's administrative method in favour of a mechanical distribution (\"the basis of fairness\") with the invariable Fa apportioning every person according to their achievement. Scholar Sugamoto Hirotsugu attributes the concept of Fen, or social resources, also used by the Guanzi and Xunzi, to Shen, given a \"dimensional\" difference through Fa, social relationships (\"yin\") and division. \n\nThe greatest function of Fa (\"the principle of objective judgement) is the prevention of selfish deeds and argument. However, doubting its long-term viability Shen did not exclude moral values and accepted (qualified) Confucian Li's supplementation of Fa and social relationships, though he frames Li in terms of (impersonal) rules. \n\nFor this reason he is said to \"laugh at men of worth\" and \"reject sages\", his order relying not on them but on the Fa.\n\nLinking Fa to the notion of impartial objectivity associated with universal interest, and reframing the language of the old ritual order to fit a universal, imperial and highly bureaucratized state, Shen cautions the ruler against relying on his own personal judgment, contrasting personal opinions with the merit of the objective standard, or fa, as preventing personal judgements or opinions from being exercised. Personal opinions destroy Fa, and Shen Dao's ruler therefore \"does not show favoritism toward a single person.\"\n\nGenerally speaking, the \"Fa-Jia\" understood that the power of the state resides in social and political institutions, and are innovative in their aim to subject the state to them. Like Shen Buhai, Shen Dao largely focused on statecraft (Fa), and Confucian Xun Kuang discusses him in this capacity, never referencing Shen Dao in relation to power. Shen Dao is remembered for his theories on Shih (lit. \"situational advantage\", but also \"power\" or \"charisma\") because Han Fei references him in this capacity. \n\nHan Fei says: \nUsed in many areas of Chinese thought, Shih probably originated in the military field. Diplomats relied on concepts of situational advantage and opportunity, as well as secrecy (shu) long before the ascendancy of such concepts as sovereignty or law, and were used by kings wishing to free themselves from the aristocrats. Sun Tzu would go on to incorporate Taoist philosophy of inaction and impartiality, and Legalist punishment and rewards as systematic measures of organization, recalling Han Fei's concepts of power (shih) and tactics (shu).\n\nHenry Kissinger's \"On China\" says: \"Chinese statesmanship exhibits a tendency to view the entire strategic landscape as part of a single whole... Strategy and statecraft become means of 'combative coexistence' with opponents. The goal is to maneuver them into weakness while building up one's own shi, or strategic position.\" Kissinger considers the \"maneuvering\" approach an ideal, but one that ran in contrast to the conflicts of the Qin dynasty.\n\nSearching out the causes of disorder, Shen Dao observed splits in the ruler's authority. Shen Dao's theory on power echoes Shen Buhai, referenced by Xun Kuang as its originator, who says \"He who (can become) singular decision-maker can become the sovereign of All under Heaven\". Shen Dao's theory may otherwise have been borrowed from the \"Book of Lord Shang\". \n\nFor Shen Dao, \"Power\" (势 Shih) refers to the ability to compel compliance; it requires no support from the subjects, though it does not preclude this. (Shih's) merit is that it prevents people from fighting each other; political authority is justified and essential on this basis. Shen Dao says: \"When All under Heaven lacks the single esteemed [person], then there is no way to carry out the principles [of orderly government, li 理]…. Hence the Son of Heaven is established for the sake of All under Heaven... All under Heaven is not established for the sake of the Son of Heaven…\"\n\nTalent cannot be displayed without power. Shen Dao says: \"The flying dragon rides on the clouds and the rising serpent wanders in the mists. But when the clouds disperse and the mists clear up, the dragon and the serpent become the same as the earthworm and the large winged black ant because they have lost what they ride.\" Leadership is not a function of ability or merit, but is given by some a process, such as giving a leader to a group. \"The ruler of a state is enthroned for the sake of the state; the state is not established for the sake of the prince. Officials are installed for the sake of their offices; offices are not established for the sake of officials...\n\nUsually disregarded by the Fa-Jia, Shen Dao considers moral capability useful in terms of authority. If the ruler is inferior but his command is practised, it is because he is able to get support from people. But his ideas otherwise constitute a \"direct challenge\" to Confucian virtue. Virtue is unreliable because people have different capacities. Both morality together with intellectual capability are insufficient to rule, while position of authority is enough to attain influence and subdue the worthy, making virtue \"not worth going after.\"\n\nLike Shen Dao, Han Fei seems to admit that virtue or charisma can have persuasive power even in his own time. However, he considers virtue instrumental, and Wu-wei, or nonaction, as it's essence. Furthermore, he criticizes virtue as insufficient; power should be amassed through \"laws\" (fa), and unlike Shen considers government by moral persuasion and government by power (shih) mutually incompatible. The ruler's authority (shih) should depend neither on his own personal qualities or cultivation, or even upon Shen Dao's position or power, but on Fa (law or checks and balances), a more vital source for his authority. Shang Yang and Han Fei's rejection of charisma (shih) as ineffective underwrite their rejection of the Confucian ruler. Han Fei does stress that the leader has to occupy a position of substantial power before he is able to use these or command followers. Competence or moral standing do not allow command.\n\nFor Han Fei, in order to actually influence, manipulate or control others in an organization and attain organizational goals it is necessary to utilize tactics (shu), regulation (fa), and rewards and punishment – the \"two handles\". Reward and punishment determine social positions – the right to appoint and dismiss. In line with Shih, these should never be relegated. The ruler must be the sole dispenser of honors and penalties. If these are delegated to the smallest degree, and people are appointed on the basis of reputation or worldly knowledge, then rivals will emerge and the ruler's power will fall to opinion and cliques (the ministers). Allowing him to prevent collapse by combating or resolving ministerial disagreements and ambitions, the rule's exclusive authority outweighs all over considerations, and Han Fei requires that the ruler punish disobedient ministers even if the results of their actions were successful. Goods may not be considered meaningful outside of his control.\n\nIntending to abolish philosophy, Han Fei rejects moral reform or any natural basis for it, and considers philosophical disputation an attempt to replace the Confucians (obtain office). He inheres however to the tradition of Fa, considering coherent discourse essential for the functioning of the state. Han Fei's analysis of the problem of rulership is that \"people naturally incline to private interpretation (Chad Hansen)\". Differentiating his theory from that of the Confucians through the objectivity and accessibility of Fa, he considers measurement (Fa) the only justification for adopting an explicit code, rather than leaving matters to tradition. As with Shen Buhai and most of the School of Names he takes the congruence between name and reality as a primary goal.\n\nPublic, measurement-like standards for applying names (administrative standards or job contracts) can \"plausibly make it hard for clever ministers to lie, (or) for glib talkers to take people (or the ruler) in with sophistries... (They make it possible to) correct the faults of superiors, expose error, check excess, and unify standards... Laws, by themselves, cannot prevent the ruler from being fooled or deceived. The ruler needs Fa.\" Han Fei's arguments for \"rule by law\" (Fa) would not have as much persuasive power as they do if not for Fa, without which its objectives cannot be achieved. He rejects Confucian Li, scholarly interpretation and opinion, worldly knowledge, and reputation: models must be measured, dissolving behaviour and disputes of distinction into practical application.\n\nConsidering politics the only means of preserving the power of the state, he emphasizes standards (Fa), preventing disputes in language or knowledge, as the ruler's only protection. Providing reward and penalty automatically, Fa strictly defines state functions through binding, general rules, removing from discussion what would otherwise only be opinion, and preventing conflicts of competencies, undue powers or profits. To this end, Han Fei's high officials focus solely on definition through calculation and the construction of objective models, judged solely by effectiveness.\n\nHan Fei was notoriously focused on what he termed Xing-Ming, which Sima Qian and Liu Xiang define as \"holding actual outcome accountable to Ming.(speech)\" In line with both the Confucian and Mohist rectification of names, it is relatable to the Confucian tradition in which a promise or undertaking, especially in relation to a government aim, entails punishment or reward, though the tight, centralized control emphasized by both his and his predecessor Shen Buhai's philosophy conflicts with the Confucian idea of the autonomous minister.\n\nPossibly referring to the drafting and imposition of laws and standardized legal terms, Xing-Ming may originally have meant \"punishments and names\", but with the emphasis on the latter. It functions through binding declarations (Ming), like a legal contract. Verbally committing oneself, a candidate is allotted a job, indebting him to the ruler. \"Naming\" people to (objectively determined) positions, it rewards or punished according to the proposed job description and whether the results fit the task entrusted by their word, which a real minister fulfils. \n\nHan Fei insists on the perfect congruence between words and deeds. Fitting the name is more important than results. The completion, achievement, or result of a job is its assumption of a fixed form (xing), which can then be used as a standard against the original claim (ming). A large claim but a small achievement is inappropriate to the original verbal undertaking, while a larger achievement takes credit by overstepping the bounds of office.\n\nHan Fei's \"brilliant ruler\" \"orders names to name themselves and affairs to settle themselves.\"\n\nAssessing the accountability of his words to his deeds, the ruler attempts to \"determine rewards and punishments in accordance with a subject's true merit\" (using Fa). It is said that using names (ming) to demand realities (shih) exalts superiors and curbs inferiors, provides a check on the discharge of duties, and naturally results in emphasizing the high position of superiors, compelling subordinates to act in the manner of the latter. \n\nHan Fei considers Xing-Ming an essential element of autocracy, saying that \"In the way of assuming Oneness names are of first importance. When names are put in order, things become settled down; when they go awry, things become unfixed.” He emphasizes that through this system, initially developed by Shen Buhai, uniformity of language could be developed, functions could be strictly defined to prevent conflict and corruption, and objective rules (Fa) impervious to divergent interpretation could be established, judged solely by their effectiveness. By narrowing down the options to exactly one, discussions on the \"right way of government\" could be eliminated. Whatever the situation (Shih) brings is the correct Dao.\n\nThough recommending use of Shen Buhai's techniques, Han Fei's Xing-Ming is both considerably narrower and more specific. The functional dichotomy implied in Han Fei's mechanistic accountability is not readily implied in Shen's, and might be said to be more in line with the later thought of the Han dynasty linguist Xu Gan than that of either Shen Buhai or his teacher Xun Kuang.\n\nThough not entirely accurately, most Han works identify Shang Yang with penal law. Its discussion of bureaucratic control is simplistic, chiefly advocating punishment and reward. Shang Yang was largely unconcerned with the organization of the bureaucracy apart from this. The use of these \"two handles\" (punishment and reward) nonetheless forms a primary premise of Han Fei's administrative theory. However, he includes it under his theory of Shu in connection with Xing-Ming.\n\nAs a matter of illustration, if the \"keeper of the hat\" lays a robe on the sleeping Emperor, he has to be put to death for overstepping his office, while the \"keeper of the robe\" has to be put to death for failing to do his duty. The philosophy of the \"Two Handles\" likens the ruler to the tiger or leopard, which \"overpowers other animals by its sharp teeth and claws\"(rewards and punishments). Without them he is like any other man; his existence depends upon them. To \"avoid any possibility of usurpation by his ministers\", power and the \"handles of the law\" must \"not be shared or divided\", concentrating them in the ruler exclusively.\n\nIn practice, this means that the ruler must be isolated from his ministers. The elevation of ministers endangers the ruler, with which he must be kept strictly apart. Punishment confirms his sovereignty; law eliminates anyone who oversteps his boundary, regardless of intention. Law \"aims at abolishing the selfish element in man and the maintenance of public order\", making the people responsible for their actions.\n\nHan Fei's rare appeal (among Legalists) to the use of scholars (law and method specialists) makes him comparable to the Confucians, in that sense. The ruler cannot inspect all officials himself, and must rely on the decentralized (but faithful) application of laws and methods (fa). Contrary to Shen Buhai and his own rhetoric, Han Fei insists that loyal ministers (like Guan Zhong, Shang Yang, and Wu Qi) exist, and upon their elevation with maximum authority. Though Fa-Jia sought to enhance the power of the ruler, this scheme effectively neutralizes him, reducing his role to the maintenance of the system of reward and punishments, determined according to impartial methods and enacted by specialists expected to protect him through their usage thereof. Combining Shen Buhai's methods with Shang Yang's insurance mechanisms, Han Fei's ruler simply employs anyone offering their services.\n\nDevoting the entirety of Chapter 14, \"How to Love the Ministers\", to \"persuading the ruler to be ruthless to his ministers\", Han Fei's enlightened ruler strikes terror into his ministers by doing nothing (Wu wei). The qualities of a ruler, his \"mental power, moral excellence and physical prowess\" are irrelevant. He discards his private reason and morality, and shows no personal feelings. What is important is his method of government. Fa (administrative standards) require no perfection on the part of the ruler.\n\nHan Fei's use of Wu-Wei may have been derivative of Taoism, but its Tao is qualitatively different from the Laozi's, emphasizing autocracy (\"Tao does not identify with anything but itself, the ruler does not identify with the ministers\") and Shu as a \"practical principle of political control\" more than any state of mind.\n\nHan Fei's commentary on the Tao Te Ching asserts that perspectiveless knowledge – an absolute point of view – is possible, though the chapter may have been one of his earlier writings.\n\nEven if the Fa-Jia were not ardent absolutists (and Han Fei believed that most rulers would be average), they would never dream of openly challenging absolutism, and its methods are presented as empowering the ruler. Han Fei's doctrine, however, challenges its absolutist premise out of its own mouth. In order for its administration to function, the ruler must act as a cog in its operation, and that alone. The operation of Fa implies non-interference not only in its application, but also in its development, determined through method.\n\nSinologist Xuezhi Guo contrasts the Confucian \"Humane ruler\" with the Legalists as \"intending to create a truly 'enlightened ruler. He quotes Benjamin I. Schwartz as describing the features of a truly Legalist \"enlightened ruler\":\nAs easily as mediocre carpenters can draw circles by employing a compass, anyone can employ the system Han Fei envisions. The enlightened ruler restricts his desires and refrains from displays of personal ability or input in policy. Capability is not dismissed, but the ability to use talent will allow the ruler greater power if he can utilize others with the given expertise. Laws and regulations allow him to utilize his power to the utmost. Adhering unwaveringly to legal and institutional arrangements, the average monarch is numinous. A.C. Graham writes: \n\nResting empty, the ruler simply checks \"shapes\" against \"names\" and dispenses rewards and punishments accordingly, concretizing the Tao (\"path\") of Laozi into standards for right and wrong. Submerged by the system he supposedly runs, the alleged despot disappears from the scene.\n\nGuided by Legalist thought, the First Qin Emperor Qin Shi Huang conquered and unified the China's warring states into thirty-six administrative provinces, under what is commonly thought of as the first Chinese Empire, the Qin dynasty. The Qin document \"On the Way of Being an Official\" proclaims the ideal of the official as a responsive conduit, transmitting the facts of his locale to the court, and its orders, without interposing his own will or ideas. It charges the official to obey his superiors, limit his desires, and to build roads to smooth the transmitting of directives from the center without modification. It praises loyalty, absence of bias, deference, and the appraisal of facts.\n\nThe intrastate realpolitik would end up devouring the philosophers themselves. Holding that if punishments were heavy and the law equally applied, neither the powerful nor the weak would be able to escape consequences, Shang Yang advocated the state's right to punish even the ruler's tutor, and ran afoul of the future King Huiwen of Qin (–311 BC). Whereas at one point, Shang Yang had the power to exile his opponents (and, thus, eviscerate individual criticism) to border regions of the state, he was captured by a law he had introduced and died being torn into pieces by chariots. Similarly, Han Fei would end up being poisoned by his envious former classmate Li Si, who in turn would be killed (under the law he had introduced) by the aggressive and violent Second Qin Emperor that he had helped to take the thrones.\n\nAs recorded in the Shiji and Book of Han, the Han dynasty took over the governmental institutions of the Qin dynasty almost unchanged, but in its early decades it was not a centralized state, parcelling out the country to a number of relatives, who as vassal kings who ruled with full authority. The reputation of Legalism suffered from its association with the former Qin dynasty. Sima Tan, though hailing the Fa \"school\" for \"honouring rulers and derogating subjects, and clearly distinguishing offices so that no one can overstep [his responsibilities]\", criticized the Legalist approach as \"a one-time policy that could not be constantly applied.\" Though different philosophically, the pairing of figures like Shen Buhai and Shang Yang along with Han Fei became common in the early Han dynasty, Sima Tan glossing the three as Fa Jia and his son as adherents of \"xing ming\" (\"performance and title\").\n\nThe syncretic Han Dynasty text, the Huainanzi writes that \"On behalf of the Ch'in, Lord Shang instituted the mutual guarantee laws, and the hundred surnames were resentful. On behalf of Ch'u, Wu Ch'i issued order to reduce the nobility and their emoluments, and the meritorious ministers revolted. Lord Shang, in establishing laws, and Wu Ch'i, in employing the army, were the best in the world. But Lord Shang's laws [eventually] caused the loss of Ch'in for he was perspicacious about the traces of the brush and knife, but did not know the foundation of order and disorder. Wu Ch'i, on account of the military, weakened Ch'u. He was well practiced in such military affairs as deploying formations, but did not know the balance of authority involved in court warfare.\" Usually referring to Warring States period philosophers, during the Han Fa-jia would be used for others disliked by the Confucian orthodoxy, like the otherwise Confucianistic reformers Guan Zhong and Xunzi, and the Huang-Lao Taoists.\n\nThe Shiji records Li Si as repeatedly recommending \"supervising and holding responsible\", which he attributed to Shen Buhai. A stele set up by Qin Shi Huang memorializes him as a sage that, taking charge of the government, established Xing-Ming.\n\nIn the early Han dynasty, Sima Tan's Taoist syncretism almost unmistakably uses the same sort of technique as Shen Buhai, saying:\n\nThe Huang–Lao text Jing fa says\nThe Shiji states that Emperor Wen of Han was \"basically fond of Xing-Ming.\" Jia Yi advised Wen to teach his heir to use Shen Buhai's method, so as to be able to \"supervise the functions of the many officials and understand the usages of government.\" Pressure groups saw Jia Yi's dismissal, but was brought back to criticize the government. Two advisors to Wen's heir, Emperor Jing of Han were students of Xing-Ming, one passing the highest grade of examination, and admonished Jing for not using it on the feudal lords.\n\nBy the time of the civil service examination was put into place, Confucian influence saw outright discussion of Shen Buhai banned. Xing-Ming is not discussed by Imperial University's promoter, the famous Confucian Dong Zhongshu. However, the Emperor under which it was founded, Emperor Wu of Han, was both familiar with and favorable to Legalist ideas, and the civil service examination did not come into existence until its support by Gongsun Hong, who did write a book on Xing-Ming. The Emperor Xuan of Han was still said by Liu Xiang to have been fond of reading Shen Buhai, using Xing-Ming to control his subordinates and devoting much time to legal cases.\n\nRegarded as being in opposition to Confucians, as early as the Eastern Han its full and original meaning would be forgotten. Yet the writings of \"Tung-Cung-shu\" discuss personnel testing and control in a manner sometimes hardly distinguishable from the \"Han Feizi\". Like Shen Buhai, he dissuades against reliance upon punishments. As Confucianism ascended the term disappeared, but appears again in later dynasties.\n\nThe Yongzheng Emperor of the Qing dynasty was said by a Qing document \"Teng Ssu-yu\" to \"hsun ming tse she(romanization)\", or \"demand performance in accordance with title\", a near-verbatim usage of the Han Feizi.\n\nThe administration and political theory developed during the formative Warring States period would still influence every dynasty thereafter, as well as the Confucian philosophy that underlay Chinese political and juridical institutions. The influence of the Fa-Jia on Han Confucianism is very apparent, adopting Han Fei's emphasis of a supreme ruler and authoritarian system rather than Mencius's devaluation thereof, or Xun Kuang's emphasis on the Tao.\n\nShen Buhai's book appears to have been widely studied in the beginning of the Han era. As protégé of a Han Dynasty Commandant of Justice that had studied under Li Si, Jia Yi was a student of Shen Buhai through them. Jia describes Shen Buhai's Shu as a particular method of applying the Tao, or virtue, bringing together Confucian and Taoist discourses. He uses the imagery of the Zhuangzhi of the knife and hatchet as examples of skillful technique in both virtue and force, saying \"benevolence, righteousness, kindness and generosity are the ruler's sharp knife. Power, purchase, law and regulation are his axe and hatchet\". His writings blame the fall of the Qin dynasty simply on the education of the second emperor. He would draw up elaborate plans for reorganizing the bureaucracy, which Emperor Wen of Han put into effect.\n\nShen Buhai never attempts to articulate natural or ethical foundations for his Fa (administrative method), nor does he provide any metaphysical grounds for his method of appointment (later termed \"xing-ming\"), but later texts do. The Huang-Lao work Boshu grounds fa and xing-ming in the Taoist Dao.\n\nThe \"Discourses on Salt and Iron\"}s Lord Grand Secretary uses Shang Yang in his argument against the dispersion of the people, stating that \"a Sage cannot order things as he wishes in an age of anarchy\". He recalls Lord Shang's chancellery as firm in establishing laws and creating orderly government and education, resulting in profit and victory in every battle. Although Confucianism was promoted by the new emperors, the government continued to be run by Legalists. Emperor Wu of Han (140–87 BC) barred Legalist scholars from official positions and established a university for the study of the Confucian classics, but his policies and his most trusted advisers were Legalist. Michael Loewe called the reign of Emperor Wu the \"high point\" of Modernist (classically justified Legalist) policies, looking back to \"adapt ideas from the pre-Han period.\" An official ideology cloaking Legalist practice with Confucian rhetoric would endure throughout the imperial period, a tradition commonly described as \"wàirú nèifǎ\" ().\n\nIt became commonplace to adapt Legalist theories to the Han state by justifying them using the classics, or combining them with the notion of the \"way\" or \"pattern of the cosmos\" (\"The Way gave birth to law\" Huangdi Sijing). Some scholars \"mourne\" the lack of pure examples of Daoism, Confucianism and Legalism in the Han dynasty more generally. Han sources would nonetheless come to \"treat Legalism as an alternative to the methods of the Classicists.\" During the decay of the Han Dynasty, many scholars again took up an interest in Legalism, Taoism and even Mohism, and a number of Confucians took up \"Legalist\" methods to combat the growing disregard for law.\n\nThe Records of the Three Kingdoms describes Cao Cao as a hero who \"devised and implemented strategies, lorded the world over, wielded skillfully the law and political technique of Shen Buhai and Shang Yang, and unified the ingenious strategies of Han Fei.\" Zhuge Liang also attached great importance to the works of Shen Buhai and Han Fei. The tendency toward Legalism is apparent in intellectual circles toward the end of the Han dynasty, and would be reinforced by Cao Wei. Dispossessed peasants were organized into paramilitary agricultural colonies to increase food production for the army, and penal legislation increased. These policies would be followed by the Northern Wei.\n\nEmperor Wen of Sui is recorded as having withdrawn his favour from the Confucians, giving it to \"the group advocating Xing-Ming and authoritarian government\". But Wen might be said to have already been steeped in a Legalist tradition followed by the aristocratic institutions of the northern dynasties, who concerned themselves with functional organization and social hierarchy. The Sui dynasty and Tang dynasty were largely based upon the Western Wei and Northern Zhou, refining pre-existing institutions and taking measures against the aristocracy.\n\nQuoting Arthur Wright, Author Hengy Chye Kiang calls the Sui dynasty a \"strong autocratic power with a penchant for Legalist philosophy\", and its prime minister Gao Jiong \"a man of practical statecraft\" recalling the great Legalist statesmen. His influence saw the replacement of Confucians with officials of \"Legalist\" outlook favoring centralization.\n\nLi Shanchang (1314–1390), a founding Prime Minister of the Ming dynasty, studied Chinese Legalism. It is said that Li was the Emperor Hongwu's closest comrade during the war, and greatest contributor to his ultimate victory and thus establishment of the Ming Dynasty. Deeply trusted by the Emperor, Hongwu consulted Li on institutional matters. Li planned the organization of the \"six ministries\" and shared in the drafting of a new law code. He established salt and tea monopolies based on Yuan institutions, eliminated corruption, restored minted currency, opened iron foundries, and instituted fish taxes. It is said that revenues were sufficient, yet the people were not oppressed. Most of his other activities seem to have supported Hongwu Emperor's firm control of his regime. Mainly responsible for ferreting out disloyalty and factionalism among military officers, he used a reward and punishment system reminiscent of the Han Feizi, and may have had a kind of secret police in his service. At times he had charge of all civil and military officials in Nanking.\n\nIn 1572 Zhang Juzheng, a legalistic, prime-minister like figure of the Ming Dynasty, had the young emperor of the time issue a warning edict against China's bureaucracy with the reference that they had abandoned the public interest for their own private interests. It reads: \"From now on, you will be pure in your hearts and scrupulous in your work. You will not harbor private designs and deceive your sovereign... You will not complicate debates and disconcert the government.\" It suggests that good government will prevail as long as top ministers were resolute in administration of the empire and minor officials were selflessly devoted to the public good. It is said that the officials became \"very guarded and circumspect\" following its release. His \"On Equalizing Taxes and Succoring the People\" postulated that the partiality of local officials toward powerful local interests was responsible for abuses in tax collection, hurting both the common people and the Ming state.\n\nZhang Juzheng wrote that \"it is not difficult to erect laws, but it is difficult to see they are enforced.\" His Regulation for Evaluating Achievements (kao cheng fa) assigned time limits for following government directives and made officials responsible for any lapses, enabling Zhang to monitor bureaucratic efficiency and direct a more centralized administration. That the rules were not ignored are a testament to his basic success.\n\nLegalism was partly rehabilitated in the twentieth century by new generations of intellectuals. One, Mai Menghua (1874–1915), promulgated interest in Shang Yang's thought, comparing Shang Yang's view of history with the evolutionary ideas of western theorists. Hu Shi (1891–1962) hailed Han Fei and Li Si for their \"brave spirit of opposing those who 'do not make the present into their teacher but learn from the past. Guomindang leader Hu Hanmin (1879–1936) wrote the preface to a new edition of the Book of Lord Shang.\n\nOn account of Fa-Jia ignoring differences among subjects, early modern Chinese scholarship often viewed it within the context of Western \"rule of law\". One 1922 article, The Antiquity of Chinese Law, attributes three legal theories to Han Fei, referred to as a \"jurist\". From the 1920s on it was viewed as being in a historical struggle with the Confucian \"rule of men\".\n\nIn the nineteenth century Shang Yang's slogan of \"rich country, strong army\" was reinvoked in Japan as a \"formal ideological foundation of industrial and technological development.\"\n\nJohn Man describes the early Mao as a \"dyed-in-the-wool\" Legalist or \"Lord Shang-style 'sage ruler', who defined the law according to revolutionary needs.\"\nThe Communists would use the Fa-Jia in their criticism of Confucianism, describing the conflict between the two as class struggle. During the 1950 the PRC combined law with campaigns against political enemies, and appeals to the Fa-Jia for solutions became common after the Great Leap Forward. Fazhi, another historical term for \"Legalism\", would be used to refer to both socialist legality and Western rule of law. Still contrasted with renzhi (or rule of persons), most Chinese wanted to see it implemented in China. Rule of law again gained prominent attention in the 1970s after the Cultural Revolution, in Deng Xiaoping's platform for modernization.\n\nTwo decades of reform, Russia's collapse and a financial crisis in the 1990s only served to increase its importance, and the 1999 constitution was amended to \"provide for the establishment of a socialist rule-of-law state\", aimed at increasing professionalism in the justice system. Signs and flyers urged citizens to uphold the rule of law. In the following years figures like Pan Wei, a prominent Beijing political scientist, would advocate for a consultative rule of law with a redefined role for the party and limited freedoms for speech, press, assembly and association.\n\nXingzhong Yu, Professor at Cornell University, describes the PRC through a framework of \"State Legalism\".\n\nLegalist discourse is seeing a resurgence during the leadership of Xi Jinping, who is the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, with journalists reporting on his fondness for the Chinese classics, alongside Confucianism including Legalist writers and in particular Han Fei, both of which Xi sees as relevant. Han Fei gained new prominence with favourable citations. One sentence of Han Fei's that Xi quoted appeared thousands of times in official Chinese media at the local, provincial, and national levels.\n\nA key phrase of Xi's reforms is \"govern the state according to law\" (yi fa zhi guo), but focuses on enforcing discipline on party and government officials first.\n\nIn the Western world some early modern scholars used the term Realist, believing that said Realists, rejecting all appeals to tradition and the supernatural, held that law should replace morality. Waley contrasts what he terms the Realists with other the schools as largely ignoring the individual, holding that the object of any society is to dominate other societies, and A.F.P. Hulsewé writes \"(Shang Yang and Han Fei) were not so interested in the contents of the laws as in their use as a political tool... the predominantly penal laws and a system of rewards were the two 'handles. Angus Charles Graham sketched the fundamentals of an \"amoral science\" largely on the basis of the Han Feizi, consisting of \"adapting institutions to changing situations and overruling precedent where necessary; concentrating power in the hands of the ruler; and, above all, maintaining control of the factious bureaucracy.\"\n\nMore recently, Liang Zhiping theorized that law emerged initially in China, namely, as an instrument by which a single clan exercised control over rival clans. In the earlier Spring and Autumn period, a Qin king is recorded as having memorialized penalty as a ritual function benefiting the people, saying \"I am the little son: respectfully, respectfully I obey and adhere to the shining virtuous power, brightly spread the clear punishments, gravely and reverentially perform my sacrifices to receive manifold blessings. I regulate and harmonize myriad people, gravely from early morning to evening, valorous, valorous, awesome, awesome – the myriad clans are truly disciplined! I completely shield the hundred nobles and the hereditary officers. Staunch, staunch in my civilizing and martial [power], I calm and silence those who do not come to the court [audience]. I mollify and order the hundred states to have them strictly serve the Qin.\"\n\nRoss Terrill writes that \"Chinese Legalism is as Western as Thomas Hobbes, as modern as Hu Jintao. It speaks the universal and timeless language of law and order. The past does not matter, state power is to be maximized, politics has nothing to do with morality, intellectual endeavour is suspect, violence is indispensable, and little is to be expected from the rank and file except an appreciation of force.\" He calls Legalism the \"iron scaffolding of the Chinese Empire\", but emphasizes the marriage between Legalism and Confucianism.\n\nChinese law expert Peerenboom compares Han Fei against the accepted standards of legal positivism and concluded that he is a legal positivist. Establishing the ruler as the ultimate authority over the law, he also \"shares the belief that morality and the law need not coincide.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51913", "title": "Legislation", "text": "Legislation\n\nLegislation (or \"statutory law\") is law which has been promulgated (or \"enacted\") by a legislature or other governing body or the process of making it. Before an item of legislation becomes law it may be known as a bill, and may be broadly referred to as \"legislation\", while it remains under consideration to distinguish it from other business. Legislation can have many purposes: to regulate, to authorize, to outlaw, to provide (funds), to sanction, to grant, to declare or to restrict. It may be contrasted with a non-legislative act which is adopted by an executive or administrative body under the authority of a legislative act or for implementing a legislative act.\n\nUnder the Westminster system, an item of primary legislation is known as an Act of Parliament after enactment.\n\nLegislation is usually proposed by a member of the legislature (e.g. a member of Congress or Parliament), or by the executive, whereupon it is debated by members of the legislature and is often amended before passage. Most large legislatures enact only a small fraction of the bills proposed in a given session. Whether a given bill will be proposed and is generally a matter of the legislative priorities of government.\n\nLegislation is regarded as one of the three main functions of government, which are often distinguished under the doctrine of the separation of powers. Those who have the formal power to \"create\" legislation are known as legislators; a judicial branch of government will have the formal power to \"interpret\" legislation (see statutory interpretation); the executive branch of government can act only within the powers and limits set by the law.\n\nThe function and procedures are primarily the responsibility of the legislature. However, there are situations where legislation is made by other bodies or means, such as when constitutional law or secondary legislation is enacted. Such other forms of law-making include referendums, orders in council or regulations. The term \"legislation\" is sometimes used to include these situations, or the term \"primary legislation\" may be used to exclude these other forms.\n\nThe phrase \"dead letter\" refers to legislation that has not been revoked, but that has become inapplicable or obsolete or is no longer enforced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20196558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20196558", "title": "Maximum medical improvement", "text": "Maximum medical improvement\n\nMaximum Medical Improvement (MMI) occurs when an injured employee reaches a state where his or her condition cannot be improved any further or when a treatment plateau in a person’s healing process is reached. It can mean that the patient has fully recovered from the injury or that the patient’s medical condition has stabilized to the point that no major medical or emotional change can be expected in the injured workers’ condition. At that point, no further healing or improvement is deemed possible and this occurs despite continuing medical treatment or rehabilitative programs the injured worker partakes in. When a worker who is receiving Workers' Compensation benefits reaches maximum medical improvement, his or her condition is assessed and a degree of permanent or partial impairment is determined. This degree will impact the amount of benefits the worker is able to receive.\n\nMaximum medical improvement means that treatment options have been exhausted. Temporary disability payments are terminated and a settlement is worked out regarding the condition of the worker at this point.\n\n"}
{"id": "49487062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49487062", "title": "Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services Waivers", "text": "Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services Waivers\n\nHome and Community-Based Services waivers (HCBS waivers) or Section 1915(c) waivers, 42 U.S.C. Ch. 7, § 1396n §§ 1915(c), are a type of Medicaid waiver. HCBS waivers are also sometimes referred to as the \"settings rule\" because they expand the types of settings in which people can receive comprehensive long-term care under Medicaid. Prior to the creation of HCBS waivers, comprehensive long-term care was available through Medicaid only in institutional settings. Under an HCBS waiver, states can use Medicaid funds to provide a broad array of non-medical services (excluding room and board) not otherwise covered by Medicaid, if those services allow recipients to receive care in community and residential settings as an alternative to institutionalization.\n\nSection 1915(c) was an amendment to the Social Security Act created as a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981. Adoption of HCBS waivers by states was initially slow, but Congress has enacted a series of reforms since 1981 to make the use of HCBS waivers less prohibitive. The Supreme Court case, \"Olmstead v. L.C.\" (1999), found unnecessary institutionalization to be a violation of the civil right established by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 that service be provided in the least restrictive environment. \"Olmstead\" allowed that states could be in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act if they could demonstrate that they had a comprehensive, working plan to move people with disabilities into less restrictive settings. This provision along with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services guidance on \"Olmstead\" compliance led to rapid adoption by the states of the HCBS waiver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23755946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23755946", "title": "Metropolitan Educational Enterprises", "text": "Metropolitan Educational Enterprises\n\nMetropolitan Educational Enterprises, Inc. is a company, founded in 1968 and based in Chicago, Illinois, that reportedly sells educational materials through independent contractors. The company often targets US military members as potential customers, sometimes even conducting door-to-door soliciting on military bases.\n\nMilitary families have complained to the media that the company's representatives use deceptive selling techniques and hidden fees and charges. If military families fall behind on payments for expensive encyclopedias or educational materials, which customers report are often never or tardily delivered, the company used aggressive collection tactics, including calling the commanders of customer's military units.\n\n"}
{"id": "27662087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27662087", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Soviet Union)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Soviet Union)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) (, \"Ministerstvo Yustitsii SSSR\"), formed on 15 March 1946, was one of the most important government offices in the Soviet Union. It was formerly (until 1946) known as the People's Commissariat for Justice (, \"Narodniy Komissariat Yustitsi'i\") abbreviated as Наркомюст (\"Narkomiust\"). The Ministry, at the All-Union (USSR-wide) level, was established on 6 July 1923, after the signing of the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR, and was in turn based upon the People's Commissariat for Justice of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR) formed in 1917. The Ministry was led by the Minister of Justice, prior to 1946 a Commissar, who was nominated by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and confirmed by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, and was a member of the Council of Ministers.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice was responsible for courts, prisons, and probations. Further responsibilities included criminal justice policy, sentencing policy, and prevention of re-offending in the USSR. The Ministry was organised into All-Union and Union departments. The All-Union level ministries were divided into separate organisations in the Republican, Autonomous Oblast, and provincial level. The leadership of the Ministry of Justice came from notable Soviet law organisations from around the country.\n\nAccording to a decree from 1972, the Ministry of Justice prepared proposals for the codification of law; it carried out methodological management of legal work in the national economy. The Ministry directed and coordinated the work of state bodies and public organisations to promote legal knowledge and to clarify the law among the population about the judicial agencies, as well as general management of the civil registry, state, and legal profession. The Ministry was liable to the Party, the state, and the people. The Ministry's main goal was to strengthen socialist legality and the rule of law within Soviet judicial institutions.\n\nThe Ministry was organised into one All-Union (USSR-wide) ministry and 15 Union ministries. The leadership of the ministry consisted of notable figures of the judicial authority of the Soviet Republics, the military tribunals, Bar members, notaries, and other judicial institutions. The leadership's task was to organise and prepare proposals for the codification of legislation. The organisational leadership, and the courts, had full control over the republican, autonomous, and provincial levels of government and the party. On 1 February 1923 the All-Union People's Commissariat for Justice was dissolved, and its responsibilities, duties, and functions were given to the Procurator General. The Department of the Procuracy of the Ministry of Justice, headed by a republican Procurator General, was responsible for limiting the powers of the Procurator General. On the grounds of stopping \"unnecessary centralisation\", the Ministry of Justice was dissolved both on the Union and the All-Union level. The functions of the Ministry was then handed to the Supreme Court and the Legal Commission of the Council of Ministers. The Ministry was reestablished in 1970 by the Alexei Kosygin government. Extensive regulations on the Ministry were created by the Council of Ministers. The Ministry's main task was to direct and supervise judicially organs, both at the Union and All-Union level, according to a decree from 1975.\n\nThe main task of the Ministry was to develop proposals on issues linked to the judicial system; the election of judges, elect the judiciary, organising the judiciary, studying and summarising of the jurisprudence in coordination with the Supreme Court, and to organise work for the maintenance of judicial statistics. According to Soviet law, the Ministry could propose various measures to improve the Soviet court system. According to Article 1 of the People's Commissariat for Justice, the commissariat's main task was to supervise the legal activities of the Soviet central agencies and the people's procurator.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice was headed by a Minister who was elected by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet between seasons, and authenticated by a Supreme Soviet convocation. Deputy Ministers were elected by the Council of Ministers; allocation of the deputies was decided by the Ministry of Justice. Each deputy usually headed his or her own department. The minister, the deputies, and other senior officials formed the leadership circle, known as the Board of the Ministry of Justice. The members of this board were approved by the Council of Ministers. The Board of the Ministry held meetings regularly to discuss legal matters nationwide. Decisions made by the board were as a rule implemented nationwide. If the board disagreed they sought the assistance of the Council of Ministers to solve the problem.\n\nThe structure and number of employees of the Ministry were approved by the Council of Ministers. Staffing of the central apparatus of the Ministry, as well as provisions of the departments and divisions, were approved by the Ministry of Justice. The seal of the Ministry of Justice was the state emblem of the USSR.\n\nIn 1922 Vladimir Lenin chasitised the People's Commissariat for Justice for not dealing firmly enough with political opponents of the Bolsheviks and allowing capitalism to develop outside the framework of state capitalism outlined by the New Economic Policy. Until 1936 the People's Commissariat for Justice existed only in the Union Republican level. Nikolai Krylenko, the first People's Commissar of Justice, said in January 1933 that Soviet law waxed indignant about the leniency of some Soviet officials who objected to the infamous \"five ears law\":\n\nWe are sometimes up against a flat refusal to apply this law rigidly. One People's Judge told me flatly that he could never bring himself to throw someone in jail for stealing four ears. What we're up against here is a deep prejudice, imbibed with their mother's milk... a mistaken belief that people should be tried in accordance not with the Party's political guidelines but with considerations of \"higher justice.\"\n\nAccording to Abdurakhman Avtorkhanov, Nikita Khrushchev abolished the Ministry during the height of the Khrushchev Thaw in an attempt to restore the \"Leninist norms of socialist legality\" which had disappeared under Joseph Stalin's rule. Khrushchev tried to make the Soviet court more independent from central authority by enforcing the 1936 constitution on the country's judicial branch. This would, according to Khrushchev, give the courts further independence from the central authority. The functions, duties, and responsibilities of the Ministry were reassigned to the Supreme Soviet and the Legal Commission of the Council of Ministers at all levels of Soviet society. By the 1960s it became clear that these reforms were not working as planned, and the ministry was reestablished by the Alexei Kosygin government in 1970. The Ministry, along with the majority of other Soviet ministries, was supposed to be abolished in December 1991 on the orders of the State Soviet, this did not happen, and the Soviet Union dissolved itself before this date.\n\nThe following persons headed the Commissariat/Ministry as commissars (narkoms), ministers, and deputy ministers of the Soviet era:\n\n"}
{"id": "24223549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223549", "title": "Minnesota Executive Council", "text": "Minnesota Executive Council\n\nThe Minnesota Executive Council is the executive council of Minnesota. The Council is established by Chapter 9 of Minnesota Statutes .\n\nThe Minnesota Executive Council is composed of the statewide elected executive officials. The members are the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, State Auditor, and Minnesota Attorney General. The governor is chair.\n\nThe Minnesota Executive Council \"appoints, fixes the salary of, and removes at pleasure\" an executive secretary. The executive secretary perform duties assigned by the Executive Council and may employ personnel as is necessary, some of whom may be detailed from other state departments.\n\nThe Executive Council meets upon the call of the governor or upon the call of the executive secretary at the request of three or more members.\n"}
{"id": "24080776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24080776", "title": "Music Copyright Society of China", "text": "Music Copyright Society of China\n\nThe Music Copyright Society of China (MCSC) (中国音乐著作权协会) is the country's only officially recognized organization for music copyright administration and has issued copyrights for over 14 million music works for approximately 4,000 members.\n\nFounded in 1992, the Music Copyright Society of China is the only collective rights management organization for copyright in China, with ties to over 30 foreign music copyright protection organizations including the Irish Music Rights Organization, the National Music Publisher’s Association in the United States, and the Performing Rights Society-England. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31841644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31841644", "title": "New Mobility Agenda", "text": "New Mobility Agenda\n\nThe New Mobility Agenda is an international institution which, although a virtual and open collaborative project today, was originally set up by an international working group meeting at the Abbey de Royaumont near Paris in 1974 with the support of the Parisian OECD to challenge old ideas and practices in the field of urban transport through a long term collaborative program of information exchange, education and peer support. The Agenda today draws together the experience, expertise and support of more than four thousand individuals and groups worldwide in an open collaborative peer network. One of the original proponents of this approach, Professor Mikoto Usui then director of the OECD Development Centre, referred to it in the founding meeting at the \"Abbé de Royaumont as an \"invisible college\". Drawing together the experience and expertise of more than four thousand individuals and groups worldwide, who are networked via a combination of websites, discussion groups and fora, and collaborative projects, the Agenda takes an approach to transportation planning, policy and practice that has gained considerable force over the last two decades—provides a leading-edge alternative to earlier (20th century) methods of looking at and providing mobility for people and goods in cities. The Agenda has received prestigious awards for its contributions, including the Stockholm Environment Challenge Prize (2000) and the World Technology Environment Award (2002).\n\nLike the sustainable transportation movement, to which it is closely related, it differs from previous methods (which in fact still dominate planning, policy, investment and operations in most parts of the world) in that it takes a global or broad systemic approach to the challenges of how to get around in cities, and is especially sensitive not only to pure transport efficiency (which traditionally is interpreted in pure engineering terms as speed and volume of vehicle throughput) but equally to matters of sustainable development, pollution and environmental impacts—including matters relating to climate change, the reduction of Greenhouse gases, resource efficiency, energy conservation, public health, both personal and public economics, overall time savings, public spaces, and quality of life in communities, including relations between people in public spaces – with particular attention to social justice and the unmet needs of women, children, and others with mobility or economic or health disadvantages which are not being properly served in our present mainly car-based systems and thinking, in which other forms of transport, including public transport, play only residual roles.\n\nThese two are closely related but not identical concepts. The term \"Sustainable Transportation\" had it origins in the mid-eighties and has developed over time and for the most part with particular emphasis on informing transport and environmental policy, with support from a number of university programs, NGOs and from some international and government organizations. By contrast the term New Mobility Agenda takes the issues of sustainable transportation the other way around: by emphasizing the supply side—and specifically targets projects and programs which demonstrate and achieve the basic principles behind sustainable transportation.\n\nA distinguishing aspect of the new mobility approach is its emphasis on the importance of targeted near-term improvements. It does not give up at all on long term thinking, but in response to what are increasingly understood to be unacceptable levels of pressure coming from current transportation arrangements, and the speed with which this degradation is taking place, there is a growing consensus that projects and measures should be targeting substantial improvements within a period of two or four years. In most places this also coincides with the electoral terms of those in office, thus giving those elected an opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to more sustainable transportation arrangements.\n\nThese two movements share a common base of concern about the importance of bringing new approaches to the manner in which we structure our cities. Both key on facilitating the move to more economically and environmentally efficient higher density communities. Collaboration between the two independent programs is just getting underway\n\nThe New Mobility Agenda looks for and coordinates a complex \"bouquet\" of overlapping mobility services in an attempt to offer a high quality multi-level alternative – or complement – to the mostly car-based transport system of the city. Services most often incorporated into this multi-level alternative transport system include: Travel avoidance, land use planning, mixed use, Transportation Demand Management, Telecommuting, Telework, e-work, Public space management, Shared space, Human-powered transport, Walking and Walkability , Pedestrianization, Promenadology, Traffic Calming, Cycling, public bicycle systems, utility cycling, public transit priority systems, Bus rapid transit, Car diets/reduction plans, HOV, Intelligent transportation system, LOV (Low-Occupancy Vehicle), Park and ride, Parking, Road diets, SOV, Single Occupancy Vehicle, Toll roads, Car rental , Car Free Days, Carpooling, Carsharing, flexible working, flextime, Hitch-hiking, Jitney, Midibus, Mini-bus, xTransit, Public transport, Ride sharing, economic instruments, Congestion charging, road pricing, Full cost pricing, Roller skating, Self-Organizing Collaborative Networks, Share taxis, Taxicab, Vanpooling.\n\nThe individual components of ‘new mobility’, transportation modes and policies including those listed just above, are in generally broadly well understood and defined, at least at the leading edge. But what makes the whole an \"agenda\" stems from the fact that new mobility policies are based on the development and orchestration of extensive packages of measures which need to be brought on line over time and as experience and demonstrated competence with these new approaches develops. Hence the totality is referred to as an \"agenda\"\n\nContinental Europe is leading the way in understanding and implementing the New Mobility Agenda, and the increasingly higher quality of their transportation systems performance and their life quality and environmental impacts are immediately visible to both visitors and those who live there. German, Swiss, Dutch, Austrian, Danish, and increasingly the cities of France, Belgium, Northern Italy, and the rest of Scandinavia are joining in the new mobility/quality of life sweepstakes, driven as much by pride and strong local leadership as by purely negative factors (those these are many and important movers as well). A process has been engaged in Europe which other parts of the world are looking at and starting to emulate: cities increasingly looking at themselves and each other scanning for good ideas that they can take home and adapt for their communities. This is thus an example of a virtuous spiral. The European Commission has played an important supporting role in this process.\n\nTo appreciate fully what \"new mobility\" means, it is useful to see how it differs from \"Old Mobility\" (often defined as being stuck in traffic, waiting in the rain for a bus that may never come, or paying large amounts of taxpayer dollars for \"improvements\" that ultimately find us still late for work or waiting for that bus. (See the multi-media presentation of A Day In The Life of New Mobility for one characterization of how it might look in day-to-day life in one city.)\n\nWhat we now call \"old mobility’ thinking and practice is in effect the dominant paradigm of 20th century visions and practices. It is/was essentially oriented to the search for engineering, technological and infrastructural solutions for increasing speed and throughput capacity in specific links and at key points (including bottlenecks). The old mobility paradigm was one that has been characterized as \"forecast (growth) and build\". Old mobility solutions more often than not cost a lot of money, and created a broadly shared mind-set in which the main limit to providing for yet further capacity increases within the system was constrained only by funding limitations from public sources. The old system was and is essentially hierarchical and \"expert oriented and controlled\". It is still dominant in many cities and parts of the world today.\n\n(Since this entry is still in progress, here is an attempt to characterize the present arrangements and constraints that form it very broadly. By understanding these – if (a) true and (b) really a problem – we have a base for fine-tuning our proposed new solutions. So, here is how old mobility looks from the specific vantage of the proponents of the New Mobility Agenda:\n\n\nThe heart of new mobility policy by contrast is systemic complexity, diversity, participation, wide outreach and a wide array of partnerships and other forms of synergistic interaction and collaboration. It more often involves the orchestration of a large number of measures and policies, many of which often very small in themselves, in order to provide a dispersed modern city encompassing many different types of people and mobility needs – as opposed to the \"big solution\" approaches often favored in the past (whether major highway or road building or extensions, new Rapid transit (metros, subways or other expensive rail systems, massive central parking structures, and the like). The goal of the planners and authorities changes radically with this new paradigm, such that rather than \"solving problems\" with centrally planned and executed engineering and measurement; they start to get more involved in multi-level complex problem-solving, which brings them to such quite different kinds of approaches such as community outreach and orchestration of services and the participation of a much larger number of actors and players.\n\nThe New Mobility Agenda addresses the issues on both the supply and demand sides. It thus combines Transportation Demand Management TDM strategies and measures for containing, channeling and limiting wasteful and encumbering private car traffic in cities, with coordinated support of a wide \"bouquet\" of alternative transportation arrangements. These include various forms of Human-powered transport, utility cycling, walking, public space improvement, electronic substitutes for travel (such as telework, telecommuting or e-work) and a variety of shared and public transport strategies, new and old, including HOV (High Occupancy Vehicles), carpooling, ride sharing, car rentals, taxicab, Share taxi, Jitneys, and the list goes on (see long list of modes and component parts in Internal Links below).\n\nWhat is today known as the New Mobility Agenda has had many antecedents and both before and since has proceeded in many places and on many fronts as traffic congestion and more generally the weight and poor performance—environmental, economic, social, and destruction of urban fabric—of the old, mainly car-based mobility system has increasingly made itself felt in city after city around the world. Unsurprisingly the worst problems we are seeing today are in the cities of the developing countries, and most of all in their megacities – in most of which the old mobility thinking continues to carry the day in policy and investment circles who are proving slow to adjust. Over the last two decades this movement has steadily gained force to the point where a growing array of programs and authorities are coming together in an attempt to create more balanced transportation systems, better equipped for dealing with the highly diverse mobility needs of people of all social and economic classes in the 21st century. (See references below for some of these.)\n\nThe New Mobility Agenda provides an example of a focused, international Self-Organizing Collaborative Network applied to the challenges of transport in cities. And while its antecedents are as old as the first time anyone got stuck in traffic and wondered about how things might be better organized, the actual \"New Mobility Agenda\" by that name was formally kicked off in 1996 during the OECD International Conference in Vancouver Canada (24–27 March 1996) under the title \"Towards Sustainable Transportation\".\n\nIn the wake of the 1996 \"Towards Sustainable Transportation\" conference, two things happened immediately which started to give concrete expression to this new movement.\n\n\nRecent collaborative projects that are presently (early 2007) getting considerable attention in specialist and policy circles around the world, include the relaunching of the Journal of World Transport Policy and Practice include the continuation of the Toronto (Canada) New Mobility Hub regional network and their latest Seamless Link program. In parallel the open group has launched the New Mobility Advisory/Briefs program which is aimed specifically to engage mayors and city leaders to give more attention to low cost remedial measures and projects offering near term relief. The Agenda has also recently created a handful of open video libraries which can be accessed via \"New Mobility Video Library.\"\n\nThe New Mobility program is in its work supporting the 1 August 2006 call of the Clinton Climate Initiative for 80% CO reductions in cities over the next ten – fifteen years. While not affiliated with the Clinton project, that is primarily looking at technology-based reforms in the largest world cities, the New Mobility program is concentrating on strategies to bring about major institutional reforms and a massive repartitioning of the transportation arrangements of cities of all sizes, including in the high CO sprawl areas that surround center cites.\n\nThe following cities are currently looking at eventual New Mobility projects and strategies: Paris, Stuttgart, Chicago, Washington DC, New York City, Vancouver, Santa Barbara (CA).\n\nNew Mobility is based on a \"bouquet\" of arrangements and services which in place after place seeks to find the right mix of the following:\n\nOne point that needs to be made concerning these building blocks, is that in any given city these will involve at least \"hundreds\" of coordinated actions, many of which carried out by or requiring the active support of groups outside of the traditional public and transport sector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1866599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866599", "title": "Passive house", "text": "Passive house\n\nPassive house () is a rigorous, voluntary standard for energy efficiency in a building, which reduces the building's ecological footprint. It results in ultra-low energy buildings that require little energy for space heating or cooling. A similar standard, \"MINERGIE-P\", is used in Switzerland. The standard is not confined to residential properties; several office buildings, schools, kindergartens and a supermarket have also been constructed to the standard. Passive design is not an attachment or supplement to architectural design, but a design process that integrates with architectural design. Although it is principally applied to new buildings, it has also been used for refurbishments.\n\nBy late 2008, estimates of the number of Passivhaus buildings around the world ranged from 15,000 to 20,000 structures. As of August 2010, there were approximately 25,000 such certified structures of all types in Europe. The vast majority of passive structures have been built in German-speaking countries and Scandinavia.\n\nThe Passivhaus standard originated from a conversation in May 1988 between Bo Adamson of Lund University, Sweden, and Wolfgang Feist of the \"Institut für Wohnen und Umwelt\" (Institute for Housing and the Environment, Darmstadt, Germany). Later, their concept was further developed through a number of research projects, aided by financial assistance from the German state of Hessen.\n\nMuch of the early 'Passive Houses' were based on research and the experience of North American builders during the 1970s, who—in response to the oil embargo—sought to build homes that used very little or no energy. These designs often utilized the sun as a heat source and the term 'passive house' was possibly derived from the passive solar features of these houses, such as the Saskatchewan Conservation House and the Leger House in Pepperell, Massachusetts.\n\nThe eventual construction of four row houses (terraced houses or town homes) was designed for four private clients by the architectural firm Bott, Ridder and Westermeyer. The first Passivhaus residences were built in Darmstadt in 1990, and occupied by the clients the following year.\n\nIn September 1996, the Passivhaus-Institut was founded in Darmstadt to promote and control Passivhaus standards. Since then, thousands of Passivhaus structures have been built, to an estimated 25,000+ as of 2010. Most are located in Germany and Austria, with others in various countries worldwide.\n\nIn 1996, after the concept had been validated at the Institute in Darmstadt, with space heating at 90% less than that required for a standard new building at the time, the Economical Passive Houses Working Group was created. This group developed the planning package and initiated the production of the innovative components that had been used, notably the windows and the high-efficiency ventilation systems. Meanwhile, further passive houses were built in Stuttgart (1993), Naumburg, Hesse, Wiesbaden, and Cologne (1997).\n\nProducts, which had been developed for the Passivhaus standard were further commercialised during and following the European Union sponsored CEPHEUS project, which proved the concept in five European countries in the winter of 2000–2001. The first to be certified was built in 2006 near Bemidji, Minnesota in Camp Waldsee of the German Concordia Language Villages. The first US passive retrofit project, the remodeled craftsman O'Neill house in Sonoma, California was certified in July 2010.\n\nIn the United States, the concept of passive design was first implemented by Katrin Klingenberg in 2003 when she built a passive home prototype named \"The Smith House\" in Urbana, Illinois . From here, she and builder Mike Kernagis co-founded the e-cological Construction Laboratory (e-colab) in 2004 to further explore the feasibility of affordable passive design. This eventually lead to the inception of the Passive House Institute United States (PHIUS) in 2007. Since then, the PHIUS has released their PHIUS + 2015 Building Standard and has certified over 1,200 projects and 1.1 million square feet across the United States. \n\nIreland's first Passive House was built in 2005 by Tomas O'Leary, a Passive house designer and teacher. The house was called 'Out of the Blue'. Upon completion, Tomas moved into the building.\n\nThe world's first standardised passive prefabricated house was built in Ireland in 2005 by Scandinavian Homes, a Swedish company that has since built more passive houses in England and Poland.\n\nThe first certified passive house in the Antwerpen region of Belgium was built in 2010. In 2011 the city of Heidelberg in Germany initiated the Bahnstadt project, which was seen as the world's largest passive house building area. A company in Qatar was planning the country's first Passive House in 2013, the first in the region.\n\nWhile some techniques and technologies were specifically developed for the Passive House standard, others, such as superinsulation, already existed, and the concept of passive solar building design dates back to antiquity. There was other previous experience with low-energy building standards, notably the German \"Niedrigenergiehaus\" (low-energy house) standard, as well as from buildings constructed to the demanding energy codes of Sweden and Denmark.\n\nThe Passivhaus standard requires that the building fulfills the following requirements:\n\n\nThese standards are much higher than houses built to most normal building codes. For comparisons, see the international comparisons section below.\n\nNational partners within the 'consortium for the Promotion of European Passive Houses' are thought to have some flexibility to adapt these limits locally.\n\nBy achieving the Passivhaus standards, qualified buildings are able to dispense with conventional heating systems. While this is an underlying objective of the Passivhaus standard, some type of heating will still be required and most Passivhaus buildings do include a system to provide supplemental space heating. This is normally distributed through the low-volume heat recovery ventilation system that is required to maintain air quality, rather than by a conventional hydronic or high-volume forced-air heating system, as described in the space heating section below.\n\nThe PHIUS + 2015 Standard primarily focuses on the reduction of the negative effects given by building operations, and it can be applied to all building types. Different from its German counterpart, this standard uses climate data sets to determine specific building performance criteria for different regions. Such information is determined using metrics that represent a space where significant carbon and energy reduction overlap with cost-effectiveness. Overall, the PHIUS database includes over 1000+ climate data sets for North America. The PHIUS believes this approach to the Standard is essential, as North America has variety of different climates and different passive measures may be more effective than others. \n\nFive principles are addressed when a building tries to achieve passive house status under the PHIUS Standard: this includes airtightness, ventilation, waterproofing, heating and cooling, and electrical loads. Within these principles, projects must pass building specified blower door, ventilation airflow, overall airflow, and electrical load tests; buildings must also achieve other measures such as low-emission materials, renewable energy systems, moisture control, outdoor ventilation, and energy efficient ventilation and space conditioning equipment. All buildings must also pass a quality assurance and quality control test - this is implemented to ensure that the building continues to adhere to the regional criteria set forth by the PHIUS’ climate data. These tests and analyses of operative conditions are performed by PHIUS raters or verifiers. These are accredited professionals from the PHIUS that are able to perform on-site testing and inspections to ensure that the newly constructed building is adhering to the construction plans, created energy models, and desired operating conditions. \n\nIn Passivhaus buildings, the cost savings from dispensing with the conventional heating system can be used to fund the upgrade of the building envelope and the heat recovery ventilation system. With careful design and increasing competition in the supply of the specifically designed Passivhaus building products, in Germany it is now possible to construct buildings for the same cost as those built to normal German building standards, as was done with the Passivhaus apartments at Vauban, Freiburg. On average passive houses are reported to be more expensive upfront than conventional buildings – 5% to 8% in Germany, 8% to 10% in UK and 5% to 10% in USA.\n\nEvaluations have indicated that while it is technically possible, the costs of meeting the Passivhaus standard increase significantly when building in Northern Europe above 60° latitude. European cities at approximately 60° include Helsinki in Finland and Bergen in Norway. London is at 51°; Moscow is at 55°.\n\nAchieving the major decrease in heating energy consumption required by the standard involves a shift in approach to building design and construction. Design may be assisted by use of the 'Passivhaus Planning Package' (PHPP), which uses specifically designed computer simulations.\n\nTo achieve the standards, a number of techniques and technologies are used in combination:\n\nPassive solar building design and energy-efficient landscaping support the Passive house energy conservation and can integrate them into a neighborhood and environment. Following passive solar building techniques, where possible buildings are compact in shape to reduce their surface area, with principal windows oriented towards the equator - south in the northern hemisphere and north in the southern hemisphere - to maximize passive solar gain. However, the use of solar gain, especially in temperate climate regions, is secondary to minimizing the overall house energy requirements. In climates and regions needing to reduce excessive summer passive solar heat gain, whether from direct or reflected sources, \"Brise soleil\", trees, attached \"pergolas\" with vines, vertical gardens, green roofs, and other techniques are implemented.\n\nPassive houses can be constructed from dense or lightweight materials, but some internal thermal mass is normally incorporated to reduce summer peak temperatures, maintain stable winter temperatures, and prevent possible overheating in spring or autumn before the higher sun angle \"shades\" mid-day wall exposure and window penetration. Exterior wall color, when the surface allows choice, for reflection or absorption insolation qualities depends on the predominant year-round ambient outdoor temperature. The use of deciduous trees and wall trellised or self attaching vines can assist in climates not at the temperature extremes.\n\nPassivhaus buildings employ superinsulation to significantly reduce the heat transfer through the walls, roof and floor compared to conventional buildings. A wide range of thermal insulation materials can be used to provide the required high R-values (low U-values, typically in the 0.10 to 0.15 W/(m²·K) range). Special attention is given to eliminating thermal bridges.\n\nA disadvantage resulting from the thickness of wall insulation required is that, unless the external dimensions of the building can be enlarged to compensate, the internal floor area of the building may be less compared to traditional construction.\n\nIn Sweden, to achieve passive house standards, the insulation thickness would be 335 mm (about 13 in) (0.10 W/(m²·K)) and the roof 500 mm (about 20 in) (U-value 0.066 W/(m²·K)).\n\nTo meet the requirements of the Passivhaus standard, windows are manufactured with exceptionally high R-values (low U-values, typically 0.85 to 0.70 W/(m²·K) for the entire window including the frame). These normally combine triple-pane insulated glazing (with a good solar heat-gain coefficient, low-emissivity coatings, sealed argon or krypton gas filled inter-pane voids, and 'warm edge' insulating glass spacers) with air-seals and specially developed thermal break window frames.\n\nIn Central Europe and most of the United States, for unobstructed south-facing Passivhaus windows, the heat gains from the sun are, on average, greater than the heat losses, even in mid-winter.\n\nBuilding envelopes under the Passivhaus standard are required to be extremely airtight compared to conventional construction. They are required to meet either 0.60 ACH50 (air changes per hour at 50 pascals) based on the building's volume, or 0.05 CFM50/sf (cubic feet per minute at 50 pascals, per square foot of building enclosure surface area). In order to achieve these metrics, recommended best practice is to test the building air barrier enclosure with a blower door at mid-construction if possible.\n\nPassive house is designed so that most of the air exchange with exterior is done by controlled ventilation through a heat-exchanger in order to minimize heat loss (or gain, depending on climate), so uncontrolled air leaks are best avoided. Another reason is the passive house standard makes extensive use of insulation which usually requires a careful management of moisture and dew points. This is achieved through air barriers, careful sealing of every construction joint in the building envelope, and sealing of all service penetrations.\n\nUse of passive natural ventilation is an integral component of passive house design where ambient temperature is conducive — either by singular or cross ventilation, by a simple opening or enhanced by the stack effect from smaller ingress with larger egress windows and/or clerestory-operable skylight.\n\nWhen ambient climate is not conducive, mechanical heat recovery ventilation systems, with a heat recovery rate of over 80% and high-efficiency electronically commutated motors (ECM), are employed to maintain air quality, and to recover sufficient heat to dispense with a conventional central heating system. Since passively designed buildings are essentially air-tight, the rate of air change can be optimized and carefully controlled at about 0.4 air changes per hour. All ventilation ducts are insulated and sealed against leakage.\n\nSome Passivhaus builders promote the use of earth warming tubes (typically ≈200 mm (~7,9 in) diameter, ≈40 m (~130 ft) long at a depth of ≈1.5 m (~5 ft)). These are buried in the soil to act as earth-to-air heat exchangers and pre-heat (or pre-cool) the intake air for the ventilation system. In cold weather the warmed air also prevents ice formation in the heat recovery system's heat exchanger. Concerns about this technique have arisen in some climates due to problems with condensation and mold.\n\nAlternatively, an earth to air heat exchanger can use a liquid circuit instead of an air circuit, with a heat exchanger (battery) on the supply air.\n\nIn addition to using passive solar gain, Passivhaus buildings make extensive use of their intrinsic heat from internal sources—such as waste heat from lighting, white goods (major appliances) and other electrical devices (but not dedicated heaters)—as well as body heat from the people and other animals inside the building. This is due to the fact that people, on average, emit heat equivalent to 100 watts each of radiated thermal energy.\n\nTogether with the comprehensive energy conservation measures taken, this means that a conventional central heating system is not necessary, although they are sometimes installed due to client skepticism.\n\nInstead, Passive houses sometimes have a dual purpose 800 to 1,500 watt heating and/or cooling element integrated with the supply air duct of the ventilation system, for use during the coldest days. It is fundamental to the design that all the heat required can be transported by the normal low air volume required for ventilation. A maximum air temperature of 50 °C (122 °F) is applied, to prevent any possible smell of scorching from dust that escapes the filters in the system.\n\nThe air-heating element can be heated by a small heat pump, by direct solar thermal energy, annualized geothermal solar, or simply by a natural gas or oil burner. In some cases a micro-heat pump is used to extract additional heat from the exhaust ventilation air, using it to heat either the incoming air or the hot water storage tank. Small wood-burning stoves can also be used to heat the water tank, although care is required to ensure that the room in which stove is located does not overheat.\n\nBeyond the recovery of heat by the heat recovery ventilation unit, a well designed Passive house in the European climate should not need any supplemental heat source if the heating load is kept under 10 W/m².\n\nBecause the heating capacity and the heating energy required by a passive house both are very low, the particular energy source selected has fewer financial implications than in a traditional building, although renewable energy sources are well suited to such low loads.\n\nThe Passive house standards in Europe determine a space heating and cooling energy demand of 15 kWh/year/m² of treated floor area and 10 W/m² peak demand. (Or, in imperial units, 4.75 kBTU/sf/yr and 3.2 BTU/sf/hr respectively.) In addition, the total energy to be used in the building operations including heating, cooling, lighting, equipment, hot water, plug loads, etc. is limited to 120 kWh/year/m² of treated floor area. (Or, in imperial units, 38.0 BTU/sf/yr.)\n\nTo minimize the total primary energy consumption, the many passive and active daylighting techniques are the first daytime solution to employ. For low-light days, non-daylighted spaces, and nighttime, the use of creative-sustainable lighting design using low-energy sources can be used. Low-energy sources include 'standard voltage' compact fluorescent lamps, solid-state lighting with LED lamps, organic light-emitting diodes, PLED - polymer light-emitting diodes, 'low voltage' electrical filament-Incandescent light bulbs, compact Metal halide, Xenon, and Halogen lamps.\n\nSolar powered exterior circulation, security, and landscape lighting - with photovoltaic cells on each fixture or connecting to a central Solar panel system, are available for gardens and outdoor needs. Low voltage systems can be used for more controlled or independent illumination, while still using less electricity than conventional fixtures and lamps. Timers, motion detection and natural light operation sensors reduce energy consumption, and light pollution even further for a Passivhaus setting.\n\nAppliance consumer products meeting independent energy efficiency testing and receiving Ecolabel certification marks for reduced electrical-'natural-gas' consumption and product manufacturing carbon emission labels are preferred for use in Passive houses. The ecolabel certification marks of Energy Star and EKOenergy are examples.\n\nTypically, passive houses feature:\n\n\nA net zero-energy building (ZEB) is a building that over a year does not use more energy than it generates. The first 1979 Zero Energy Design building used passive solar heating and cooling techniques with air-tight construction and super insulation. A few ZEB's fail to fully exploit more affordable conservation technology and all use onsite active renewable energy technologies like photovoltaic to offset the building's primary energy consumption. Passive House and ZEB are complementary synergistic technology approaches, based on the same physics of thermal energy transfer and storage: ZEBs drive the annual energy consumption down to 0 kWh/m² with help from on-site renewable energy sources and can benefit from materials and methods which are used to meet the Passive House demand constraint of 120 kWh/m² which will minimize the need for the often costly on-site renewable energy sources. Energy Plus houses are similar to both PassivHaus and ZEB but emphasize the production of more energy per year than they consume, e.g., annual energy performance of -25 kWh/m² is an Energy Plus house.\n\nIn a tropical climate, it could be helpful for ideal internal conditions to use energy recovery ventilation instead of heat recovery ventilation to reduce the humidity load of ventilation on the mechanical dehumidification system. Although dehumidifiers might be used, heat pump hot water heaters also will act to cool and condense interior humidity (where it can be dumped into drains) and dump the heat into the hot water tank. Passive cooling, solar air conditioning, and other solutions in passive solar building design need to be studied to adapt the Passive house concept for use in more regions of the world.\n\nThere is a certified Passive House in the hot and humid climate of Lafayette, Louisiana, USA, which uses energy recovery ventilation and an efficient one ton air-conditioner to provide cooling and dehumidification.\n\nSolar access is a very important factor in any design of a passive house as it allows the structure to use the solar energy to heat and light the space naturally, replace electrical water heaters with solar-energy-based water heaters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24576", "title": "Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach", "text": "Paul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach\n\nPaul Johann Anselm Ritter von Feuerbach (14 November 177529 May 1833) was a German legal scholar. His major work was a reform of the Bavarian penal code which became a model for several other countries.\n\nHe was born in Hainichen, near Jena. He received his early education at Frankfurt on Main, where his family had moved soon after his birth. At the age of sixteen, however, he ran away from home, and, going to Jena, was helped by relations there to study at the university. In spite of poor health and the most desperate poverty, he made rapid progress. He attended the lectures of Karl Leonhard Reinhold and Gottlieb Hufeland, and soon published some literary essays of more than ordinary merit.\n\nIn 1795 he took the degree of doctor of philosophy, and in the same year, though possessing little money, he married. It was this step which led him to success and fame, by forcing him to turn from his favourite studies of philosophy and history to that of law, which was repugnant to him, but which offered a prospect of more rapid advancement.\n\nAt 23 he came into prominence by a vigorous criticism of Thomas Hobbes' theory on civil power. Soon afterwards, in lectures on criminal jurisprudence he set forth his famous theory, that in administering justice judges should be strictly limited in their decisions by the penal code. This new doctrine gave rise to a party called Rigorists, who supported his theory.\nVon Feuerbach was the originator of the famous maxim \"nullum crimen, nulla poena sine praevia lege poenali\": \"There is no crime and hence there shall not be punishment if at the time no penal law existed\".\n\nIn 1801 Feuerbach was appointed extraordinary professor of law without salary, at the University of Jena, and in the following year accepted a chair at Kiel, where he remained two years.\n\nHis chief work was the framing of a penal code for Bavaria. In 1804, he had moved from the University of Kiel to the University of Landshut, but, on being commanded by King Maximilian Joseph to draft a penal code for Bavaria (\"Strafgesetzbuch für das Königreich Bayern\"), in 1805 he moved to Munich where he was given a high appointment in the Ministry of Justice and was ennobled in 1808. The practical reform of penal legislation in Bavaria was begun under his influence in 1806 by the abolition of torture.\n\nOut of his practical experience in the Ministry of Justice with evaluating death penalties by Bavarian courts for royal pardon he published the most notable cases 1808/11 in \"Merkwürdige Criminalfälle\" and 1828/29 a much enlarged collection \"Aktenmäßige Darstellung merkwürdiger Verbrechen\" (Notable crimes presented according to the court records). With this legal handbook of criminal cases in the tradition of the famous \"Causes Célèbres\" of the French lawyer Gayot de Pitaval (1673–1743) Feuerbach intend to establish a modern criminal psychology (\"Seelenkunde\") for crime investigation, criminal judges, etc.\n\nIn the course of time, his work has been misinterpreted merely as a literary collection of fictional sensational crimes and many of his court cases have been edited and published as trivial popular crime stories. However, Gerold Schmidt has newly researched that Feuerbach has recorded true historical events at true localities and persons with their real names etc. and that, therefore, his work is a rich historical source for Bavarian local and social history, mentality, biography etc.\n\nIn his \"Betrachtungen über das Geschworenengericht\" of 1811, Feuerbach declared against trial by jury, maintaining that the verdict of a jury was not adequate legal proof of a crime. Much controversy was aroused on the subject, and the author's view was subsequently to some extent modified.\n\nThe result of his labours on the Bavarian penal code was promulgated in 1813. The influence of this code, the embodiment of Feuerbach's enlightened views, was immense. It was at once made the basis for new codes in Württemberg and Saxe-Weimar; it was adopted in its entirety in the grand-duchy of Oldenburg; and it was translated into Swedish by order of the king. Several of the Swiss cantons reformed their codes in conformity with it.\n\nFeuerbach had also undertaken to prepare a civil code for Bavaria, to be founded on the Code Napoléon. This was afterwards set aside, and the Codex Maximilianus adopted as a basis. But the project did not become law.\n\nDuring the war of liberation (1813–1814), Feuerbach showed himself an ardent patriot, and published several political brochures. In 1814 Feuerbach was appointed second president of the court of appeal at Bamberg, and three years later he became first president of the court of appeal at Ansbach. In 1821 he was deputed by the government to visit France, Belgium, and the Rhine provinces for the purpose of investigating their juridical institutions. As the fruit of this visit, he published his treatises \"Betrachtungen über Öffentlichkeit und Mündigkeit der Gerechtigkeitspflege\" (1821) and \"Über die Gerichtsverfassung und das gerichtliche Verfahren Frankreichs\" (1825). In these he pleaded unconditionally for publicity in all legal proceedings.\n\nIn his later years, he took a deep interest in the fate of the strange foundling Kaspar Hauser who had excited so much attention in Europe. He was the first to publish a critical summary of the ascertained facts, under the title of \"Kaspar Hauser, ein Beispiel eines Verbrechens am Seelenleben\" (1832).\n\nFeuerbach died in Frankfurt.\n\nFeuerbach had five sons, and three daughters: Joseph Anselm Feuerbach (1798-1851), Karl Wilhelm Feuerbach (1800-1834), Eduard August Feuerbach (1803-1843), Ludwig Andreas Feuerbach (1804-1872), Heinrich Friedrich Feuerbach (1806-1880), Rebecca Magdalena (1808-1891), Leonore Feuerbach (1809-1885), and Elise Feuerbach (1813-1883).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51872795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51872795", "title": "Policy and Resources Committee of Guernsey", "text": "Policy and Resources Committee of Guernsey\n\nThe Policy and Resources Committee is the Senior Committee of the system of government in Guernsey, it was created on 1 May 2016 to replace the Policy Council of Guernsey.\n\nGuernsey operates a system of government by committees and consensus. There are no political parties. The members of the parliament, which is known as the States of Deliberation, are elected as independents. The States of Deliberation is both parliament and executive, but it delegates most of its executive functions to policy-specific committees, which are known as the six principal committees, each of which is run by five political members, all of whom have equal voting power.\n\nTo provide advice for the States of Guernsey, to develop policies and programmes and to implement such policies when approved relating to:\n\nThe Committee is elected by States Deputies for a period of four years.\n\nThe current Committee comprises a president and four members.\n\nThe President is the \"de facto\" head of government of Guernsey and may be given the title, \"Chief Minister\". The Vice President may also use the title \"Deputy Chief Minister\".\n\nOne person in the Committee is nominated as \"Lead Person for External Affairs\", the title \"Minister for External Affairs\" is sometimes used.\n\nThe 40 States Deputies hold an election to determine the \"President\", with successive rounds of voting continuing until an outright winner is elected. All candidates having to be proposed and seconded.\n\nShortly afterwards, the newly elected President may name his preferred committee members, however it is the votes of the States Deputies that elect the remaining four committee members. All candidates having to be proposed and seconded.\n\nNo person on the Committee may be a president or member of the six principal committees, or of the Scrutiny Management Committee, the Development & Planning Authority, or the Transport Licensing Authority.\n\nThe Policy and Resources Committee is assisted by key civil servants:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50909690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50909690", "title": "Protocol on Incendiary Weapons", "text": "Protocol on Incendiary Weapons\n\nThe Protocol on Prohibitions or Restrictions on the use of Incendiary Weapons is a United Nations treaty that restricts the use of incendiary weapons. It is Protocol III to the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons. Concluded in 1981, it entered into force on 2 December 1983. , it has been adopted by 115 state parties.\n\nThe protocol prohibits, in all circumstances, making the civilian population as such, individual civilians or civilian objects, the object of attack by any weapon or munition which is primarily designed to set fire to objects or to cause burn injury to persons through the action of flame, heat or a combination thereof, produced by a chemical reaction of a substance delivered on the target. The protocol also prohibits the use of air-delivered incendiary weapons against military targets within a concentration of civilians, and limits the use of incendiary weapons delivered by other means. Forest and other plants may not be a target unless they are used to conceal combatants or other military objectives.\nProtocol III lists certain munition types like smoke shells which only have a secondary or additional incendiary effect; these munition types are not considered to be incendiary weapons.\n\n"}
{"id": "25839592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25839592", "title": "Public Prosecution Service of Northern Ireland v. Liam Adams", "text": "Public Prosecution Service of Northern Ireland v. Liam Adams\n\nPublic Prosecution Service of Northern Ireland v. Liam Adams was a criminal case relating to allegations of child abuse made in 2009 against Liam Adams, brother of Irish politician Gerry Adams. Liam Adams was found guilty in October 2013 of 10 offences, and was sentenced in November 2013 to 16 years in prison.\n\nIn December 2009, a UTV \"Insight\" Special programme alleged that Liam Adams had sexually abused his daughter, Áine Tyrell, for a decade. In response, his brother Gerry Adams urged Liam to turn himself in to the police. Gerry also alleged that his deceased father, Gerry Adams, Sr., had subjected family members to emotional, physical and sexual abuse. The Police Service of Northern Ireland issued a European Arrest Warrant for Liam Adams’ arrest.\n\nIn December 2009, Liam Adams presented himself at a Garda Síochána police station in Sligo. They were not able to arrest him as they did not have the necessary European Arrest Warrant. Adams did not wish to hand himself into police in Northern Ireland, citing unfairness.\n\nOn 3 March 2010, the High Court in Dublin endorsed the European Arrest Warrant, which was issued in Liam Adams' name by the Serious Organised Crime Agency. The following day, Adams handed himself over to the authorities in the Republic.\n\nAdams opposed his extradition. At a brief hearing on 21 July, Adams applied for legal aid to help fight the extradition.\n\nOn 3 October 2011, an Irish High Court judge in Dublin declined Liam Adams' objections to the extradition request and said he would issue an order for Adams to surrender to the authorities in Northern Ireland. On 18 October 2011, after losing his appeal against extradition, Adams was remanded in custody for 15 days to a Dublin prison. He was handed over to officers from the PSNI at the border on the night of 2 November, and brought to Laganside Magistrates Court on the morning of 3 November, where he was remanded in custody for a week.\n\nThere were two trials; the first collapsed in April 2013 for legal reasons.\n\nIn October 2013 Liam Adams was found guilty of ten offences, including rape and gross indecency committed against his daughter between 1977 and 1983 when she was four to nine.\n\nOn 27 November 2013, Adams was jailed for 16 years and will spend a further two years on probation.\n"}
{"id": "350685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350685", "title": "Reform", "text": "Reform\n\nReform () means the improvement or amendment of what is wrong, corrupt, unsatisfactory, etc. The use of the word in this way emerges in the late 18th century and is believed to originate from Christopher Wyvill’s Association movement which identified “Parliamentary Reform” as its primary aim.\n\nReform is generally distinguished from revolution. The latter means basic or radical change; whereas reform may be no more than fine tuning, or at most redressing serious wrongs without altering the fundamentals of the system. Reform seeks to improve the system as it stands, never to overthrow it wholesale. Radicals on the other hand, seek to improve the system, but try to overthrow whether it be the government or a group of people themselves.\n\nRotation in office or term limits would, by contrast, be more revolutionary, in altering basic political connections between incumbents and constituents.\n\nDeveloping countries may carry out a wide range of reforms to improve their living standards, often with support from international financial institutions and aid agencies. This can include reforms to macroeconomic policy, the civil service, and public financial management.\n\nReligious Reforms are performed in religions and churches.\n\nA note about spelling: when used to describe something which is \"physically\" formed again, such as re-casting it in a mold/mould, or a band that gets back together, the proper term is \"re-form\" (with a hyphen), not \"reform\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16965386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16965386", "title": "Request for admissions", "text": "Request for admissions\n\nA request for admissions (sometimes also called a request to admit) are a set of statements sent from one litigant to an adversary, for the purpose of having the adversary admit or deny the statements or allegations therein. Requests for admissions are part of the discovery process in a civil case. In the U.S. federal court system, they are governed by Rule 36 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.\n\nA request for admissions is a list of questions which are similar in some respects to interrogatories, but different in form and purpose. Each \"question\" is in the form of a declarative statement which the answering party must then either admit, deny, or state in detail why he or she can neither admit nor deny the truthfulness of the statement (e.g. for lack of knowledge, etc.). This effectively puts the admissions in the form of true-false questions. For example, in a case involving an automobile accident, the plaintiff might include in his or her request a statement such as \"Defendant Smith was driving a blue Dodge Caravan on the morning of the accident\". \n\nUnder Rule 36(a)(5) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the answering party may also object to the request, and state the reason for his or her objection, so long as the objection is not solely because the request would present a genuine issue of fact for trial.\n\nRule 36(a)(1) limits the types of requests to be limited to (A) facts, the application of law to fact, or opinions about either; and (B) the genuineness of any described documents. However, the rule places no limits on the amount of requests which may be made of either litigant. State court rules, however, may be stricter than this.\n\nNotably, under Rule 36(a)(3), requests for admissions are automatically deemed admitted in U.S. federal courts if the opponent fails to timely respond or object. The opponent bears the burden of moving for relief from its failure to respond and providing a legitimate excuse for why it did not respond earlier.\n\nSome U.S. states have reversed the burden as set forth in the federal rules, such that the party propounding the RFAs must follow up with a motion to have RFAs deemed admitted.\n\nRequests for admissions help narrow the scope of the controversy by getting certain admissions or denials of issues relevant to the lawsuit on record before a trial takes place. While evidence introduced at trial can be rebutted, admissions which are on record must be taken as true unless the judge permits them to be withdrawn or amended. Thus, requests for admission can obviate presentation of some evidence and make the actual trial shorter and more efficient. Admissions are also useful at summary judgment, as an admission will generally mean that there is no issue of material fact about the question the admission relates to. \n\nAlso, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure have placed twenty-five questions per party limitations on the use of interrogatories, but there is no numerical limit in FRCP on the request for admissions (unless specified differently in Local Rules of the state, which most states do have). In California, requests for admissions are generally limited to the numerical limit of 35. However, a party in California who wishes for additional requests for admissions may make a declaration for additional discovery.\n\nSubrin, Stephen N.; Minow, Martha L.; Brodin, Mark S.; and Main, Thomas O. \"Civil Procedure: Doctrine, Practice, and Context, Second Edition\". p. 332. Aspen Publishers, 2004. \n\n"}
{"id": "44055316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44055316", "title": "Road toll (historical)", "text": "Road toll (historical)\n\nThe road toll was a historical fee charged to the territorial lords of travellers and merchants in return for permission to use the roads and waterways of the country or state concerned. It was reinforced in the Holy Roman Empire by the law of \"Straßenzwang\" which meant that traders in certain goods had to use specified roads. In return, they were usually guaranteed safe passage under the right of escort or \"Geleitrecht\". The road toll was widespread especially in medieval times, and, in addition to the payments from the staple rights, was an important source of income.\n\nRoad tolls usually had to be paid at strategic locations such as bridges (sometimes called a bridge toll) or gates. In Europe, the road toll goes back to the practice of the Germanic tribes, who charged fees to travellers if they wanted to cross over mountain passages. From that time, road tolls became commonplace in medieval times, especially in the Holy Roman Empire. The Empire had a \"passage system\" whereby a number of toll stations would be established on a route where small tolls were collected. Examples were the Ochsenweg in Schleswig-Holstein which had toll stations at Königsau and Rendsburg, Neumünster, Bramstedt and Ulzburg, as well as the Gabler Road with the Karlsfried Castle as its toll station. Another form of road tax was \"Liniengeld\", which had to be paid when entering the city of Vienna from the beginning of the 18th century.\n\nA special form of road toll was the \"Pflasterzoll\", which had to be paid to fund the initial cobbling of a road and its subsequent upkeep.\n\nAnother form of toll on medieval travel, was the river toll that was raised for the use of a waterway. Outside the towns themselves, toll stations were established in some cases at special locations: Loevestein Castle in the Netherlands was built at a strategic point on the confluence of two rivers. Ships and boats had to pay a river toll here in order to proceed down the river.\n\nThe Kingdom of Denmark had Kronborg Castle built from the receipts of the Sound Toll, a toll on ships for using the Sound of Denmark.\n\nIn a document at the imperial castle of Cochem dated 17 March 1130, which Count Palatine William of Ballenstedt had made out, mention was made of the usual river toll charged on the Moselle at one of its toll stations. The building also had the status of a toll castle. By contrast, the castle of Pfalzgrafenstein Castle in the Rhine near Kaub was exclusively used to collect river tolls. Another well known toll site on the Rhine was the imperial palace of Kaiserswerth built in 1174.\n\nIn Greek mythology the ferryman, Charon, charged the dead a river toll of one obolus for transporting them over the Acheron (also called the Lethe or Styx) so that they were able to enter the Underworld or Hades.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, road tolls were occasionally demanded from towns, monasteries, castles and villages by roaming armed bands; in return for which they would waive their use of force. This was especially true of the Normans and Vikings, but also of large bands of robbers. This type of payment was also referred to as \"Danegeld\" (payment to Danish warriors). In England, it is estimated that 30,000 pounds of silver were paid in the 9th century as Danegeld.\n\n"}
{"id": "4150615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4150615", "title": "S. L. v. Austria", "text": "S. L. v. Austria\n\nS.L. v. Austria was a case in the European Court of Human Rights concerning the age of consent. Austrian law, under Article 209 of the Austrian Criminal Code, provided for higher age of consent for male homosexual relations than for other (heterosexual or female homosexual) relations. The judgment of the court was delivered on 9 January 2003.\nS.L. was born in 1981 and reported himself to have been sure of his homosexuality at the age of 15. He lived in a rural area where homosexuality is still taboo, and suffered from the fact that he could not live his homosexuality openly and – until he reached the age of 18 – could not enter into any fulfilling sexual relationship with an adult partner without having a fear of exposing that person to criminal prosecution.\n\nArticle 209 of the Criminal Code (in the version in force at the material time): \"A male person who after attaining the age of nineteen fornicates with a person of the same sex who has attained the age of fourteen years but not the age of eighteen years shall be sentenced to imprisonment for between six months and five years.\"\n\nOn 10 July 2002 – following the judgment of the Constitutional Court – the Parliament decided to repeal Article 209 and introduced a new Article 207b, which penalizes sexual acts with a person under sixteen years of age if that person is for certain reasons not mature enough to understand the meaning of the act and the offender takes advantage of this immaturity or if the person under sixteen years of age is in a predicament and the offender takes advantage of that situation. This article applies to every sexual acts irrespective whether the sexual acts at issue are heterosexual, homosexual, or lesbian.\n\nThe Court ruled unanimously that the inequality of age of consent constituted a violation of Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 8, and also unanimously ruled that there was no need to examine the complaints lodged under Article 8 alone.\n\nIt was not disputed before the Court that the case falls within the ambit of Article 8. The development following the judgment of the Constitutional Court did not affect the applicant’s status as a victim. As regards the violation of Article 14 in conjunction with Article 8, the Court found no decisive difference between the present case and \"Sutherland v. United Kingdom\".\n\nThe Court examined whether there was an objective and reasonable justification why young men in the fourteen-to-eighteen-age bracket needed protection against any sexual relationship with adult men, while young women in the same age bracket did not need such protection against relations with either adult men or women. It came to the conclusion that to the extent that Article 209 of the Criminal Code embodied predisposed bias on the part of a heterosexual majority against the homosexual minority, these negative attitudes could not themselves provide sufficient justification for the differential treatment anymore.\n\n"}
{"id": "33248759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33248759", "title": "Scottish Arbitration Centre", "text": "Scottish Arbitration Centre\n\nThe Scottish Arbitration Centre is the home of domestic and international arbitration in Scotland. The Centre exists to promote arbitration in Scotland, and Scotland to the world as a place to conduct international arbitration.\n\nIts members comprise the Scottish Government, the Law Society of Scotland the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.\n\nThe Centre’s Honorary President is Sir David Edward QC. The Centre’s Honorary Vice President is Hew Dundas.\n\nThe Centre is chaired by Brandon Malone, and its Chief Executive is Andrew Mackenzie.\n\nThe Centre can appoint arbitrators through its Arbitral Appointments Committee. The Centre published its Directions and Guidance for the appointment of arbitrators in December 2014. User forms for the Centre’s arbitral appointments service can be found on the Scottish Arbitration Centre’s website.\n\nIn May 2016, it was announced by the International Council of Commercial Arbitration (ICCA) that the Scottish Arbitration Centre’s bid to host the ICCA 2020 Congress in Edinburgh had been successful. The Centre'’s bid had the support of the Prime Minister, the First Minister of Scotland, the Lord President of the Court of Session, the Dean of the Faculty of Advocates, the President of the Law Society of Scotland, the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, the Chairman of the Scottish Branch of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, the Chief Executive of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Global, the Chairman of VisitScotland and the Chief Executive of Marketing Edinburgh. VisitScotland estimates the congress is worth around £1.7 million to the Scottish economy.\n"}
{"id": "6055624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6055624", "title": "Sierra Club v. Morton", "text": "Sierra Club v. Morton\n\nSierra Club v. Morton, 405 U.S. 727 (1972), is a Supreme Court of the United States case on the issue of standing under the Administrative Procedure Act. The Court rejected a lawsuit by the Sierra Club seeking to block the development of a ski resort at Mineral King valley in the Sierra Nevada Mountains because the club had not alleged any injury.\n\nThe case prompted a famous dissent by Justice William O. Douglas arguing that trees should be granted legal personhood.\n\nMineral King is a seven mile by one mile subalpine glacial valley in Sequoia National Forest then abutting Sequoia National Park in Tulare County, California and only accessible by a dirt county road. In 1965 the United States Forest Service began circulating a prospectus calling for bids for recreational developments at Mineral King. In 1969 the Forest Service accepted a bid by The Walt Disney Company proposing a $35 million ski resort accommodating 1.7 million annual visitors and at any one time 20,000 skiers. By comparison, Disneyland had cost $17 million. The resort would require construction of a new twenty mile highway and 66,000 volt power line through Sequoia National Park, then a nine story parking structure and a cog-assisted railroad to ultimately take visitors into the valley. Walt Disney began personally buying private property around Mineral King through Retlaw Enterprises and, after contributing heavily in the California gubernatorial election, 1966, received a personal promise from Ronald Reagan that the state would fund the highway.\n\nSkeptical economists doubted the project would yield a positive net present value. Disney’s master plan attracted national media attention from Harper's Magazine as well as consistent, critical coverage by The New York Times.\n\nMichael McCloskey had just ousted David Brower as executive director of the Sierra Club and, emboldened by the Second Circuit’s decision in \"Scenic Hudson Preservation Conference v. Federal Power Commission\", he sought a more direct, and litigious, approach to environmentalism by setting up the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund, later renamed Earthjustice. The Sierra Club then sued the United States Secretary of the Interior in San Francisco federal court to block development of Disney’s famous ski resort. Asserting itself as private attorney general, the Sierra Club argued that Disney’s resort would cause “irreparable harm to the public interest”. The Sierra Club did not allege it suffered a unique, private injury from Disney’s ski resort because it believed the court would then weigh the balance of hardships in Disney’s favor. After two days of hearings, on July 23, 1969, District Judge William Thomas Sweigert issued a preliminary injunction blocking Disney’s ski resort.\n\nThe Secretary appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On September 16, 1970, Judge Ozell Miller Trask, joined by Judge John Kilkenny, vacated judgment and remanded, finding that the Club did not have standing to sue because it had made no allegation that it would be affected by Disney’s ski resort. Discussing the merits, Judge Trask felt it was within the Secretary’s discretion “to make available a vast area of incomparable beauty to more people rather than to have it remain inaccessible except to a rugged few.” Judge Frederick George Hamley concurred, noting that although he thought the Sierra Club had standing to sue, he agreed on the merits that Judge Sweigert’s injunction had been an abuse of discretion.\n\nThe Sierra Club’s petition for certiorari was granted and the case was argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on November 17, 1971, with U.S. Solicitor General Erwin Griswold personally appearing. Tulare County filed amici briefs in the Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court supporting the Secretary. Lewis F. Powell, Jr. and Associate Attorney General William Rehnquist, whom both joined the Court on January 7, 1972, did not participate in the case.\n\nOn April 19, 1972 the Supreme Court affirmed 4-3. Writing for the Court, Justice Potter Stewart, joined by Justices Byron White, Thurgood Marshall, and Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, agreed with the Ninth Circuit that the Sierra Club had not alleged any legal interest in the case. Because the Constitution's Case or Controversy Clause prohibits advisory opinions, the Court reasons that the legal wrongs protected by the Administrative Procedure Act must at minimum meet the prevailing constitutional requirements of standing. The Sierra Club’s legal interest in the case, according to the Court, seemed to be relying on a “zone of interests” test that Justice Douglas had announced in two cases decided on March 3, 1970. Declining to clarify the meaning of “zone of interests”, the Court reasoned that broadening the categories of injury is different “from abandoning the requirement” that plaintiffs themselves actually be injured. The Sierra Club had no standing to sue because it did not allege it was itself in any way injured by Disney’s ski resort.\n\nIn a footnote, the Court helpfully notes that the Wilderness Society’s amici brief included assertions that the Sierra Club makes regular camping trips to Mineral King and that Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, “of course”, allows the Sierra Club to amend its complaint. Justice Stewart closes by noting that although Alexis de Tocqueville had observed “Scarcely any political question arises in the United States that is not resolved sooner or later, into a judicial question”, that Tocqueville further commented that “by intimately uniting the trial of the law with the trial of an individual, legislation is protected from wanton assaults and from the daily aggressions of party spirit.”\n\n\"Sierra Club v. Morton\" is, perhaps, best known for the dissenting opinion by William O. Douglas who asserted that natural resources ought to have standing to sue for their own protection. An excerpt from his dissent:\n\nJustice Douglas’ dissent included his concern that regulatory agencies become too favorable with their regulated industries (regulatory capture):\nYet the pressures on agencies for favorable action one way or the other are enormous. The suggestion that Congress can stop action which is undesirable is true in theory; yet even Congress is too remote to give meaningful direction and its machinery is too ponderous to use very often. The federal agencies of which I speak are not venal or corrupt. But they are notoriously under the control of powerful interests who manipulate them through advisory committees, or friendly working relations, or who have that natural affinity with the agency which in time develops between the regulator and the regulated. As early as 1894, Attorney General Olney predicted that regulatory agencies might become \"industry-minded\", as illustrated by his forecast concerning the Interstate Commerce Commission:\"The Commission . . . is, or can be made, of great use to the railroads. It satisfies the popular clamor for a government supervision of railroads, at the same time that that supervision is almost entirely nominal. Further, the older such a commission gets to be, the more inclined it will be found to take the business and railroad view of things.\" M. Josephson, The Politicos 526 (1938).Years later a court of appeals observed, \"the recurring question which has plagued public regulation of industry [is] whether the regulatory agency is unduly oriented toward the interests of the industry it is designed to regulate, rather than the public interest it is designed to protect.\" Moss v. CAB, 139 U. S. App. D. C. 150, 152, 430 F. 2d 891, 893.\n\nOn June 23, 1972 the Sierra Club amended its complaint to allege that club outings in the valley would be harmed by a massive ski resort, added several natural persons as plaintiffs, and added a new claim for relief under the National Environmental Policy Act. On September 12, Judge Sweigert then allowed the case to proceed to discovery. In August 1972 Governor Reagan withdrew his support of the project, now arguing the new highway would be too expensive.\n\nThe Forest Service received 2,150 comments in response to its June 1974 preliminary draft Environmental Impact Statement. On February 26, 1976, the Forest Service released its final EIS for a resort accommodating 8,000 skiers. The Sierra Club stopped pursuing its lawsuit and in 1977 Judge Sweigert threw out the case for lack of prosecution.\n\nAlthough the Sierra Club lost the case, as a practical matter they won the war. To assert standing in a natural resource manner, environmental groups simply need to find among their membership a single person with a particularized interest (e.g., one who hikes, hunts, fishes, or camps in or near the affected area). Mineral King was ultimately never developed and was absorbed into Sequoia National Park.\n\nDuring the 95th United States Congress, Congressman John Hans Krebs attached a measure adding Mineral King to Sequoia National Park to a large omnibus “Park Barrel Bill”, which President Jimmy Carter then signed into law in 1978. Thirty years later during the 111th United States Congress, Senator Barbara Boxer developed a bill designating Mineral King as the John Krebs Wilderness, which President Barack Obama then signed into law in the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977636", "title": "Spanish Constitution of 1812", "text": "Spanish Constitution of 1812\n\nThe Political Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy (), also known as the Constitution of Cádiz () and as La Pepa, was the first Constitution of Spain and one of the earliest constitutions in world history. It was established on 19 March 1812 by the Cortes of Cádiz, the first Spanish legislature. With the notable exception of proclaiming Roman Catholicism as the official and sole legal religion in Spain, the constitution was one of the most liberal of its time: it affirmed national sovereignty, separation of powers, freedom of the press, free enterprise, abolished feudalism, and established a constitutional monarchy with a parliamentary system. It was one of the first constitutions that allowed universal male suffrage, through a complex indirect electoral system. It was repealed by King Ferdinand VII in 1814 in Valencia, who re-established absolute monarchy.\n\nHowever, the Constitution had many difficulties becoming fully effective: much of Spain was ruled by the French, while the rest of the country was in the hands of interim \"Junta\" governments focused on resistance to the Bonapartes rather than on the immediate establishment of a constitutional regime. Many of the overseas territories did not recognize the legitimacy of these interim metropolitan governments, leading to a power vacuum and the establishment of separate juntas on the American continent. On 24 March 1814, six weeks after returning to Spain, Ferdinand VII abolished the constitution and had all monuments to it torn down. Only the Constitution Obelisk in Saint Augustine, Florida survived. The constitution was reinstated during the \"Trienio Liberal\" (1820–1823), and again briefly 18361837 while the Progressives prepared the Constitution of 1837.\n\nThe Cortes drafted and adopted the Constitution while besieged by French troops, first on Isla de León (now San Fernando), then an island separated from the mainland by a shallow waterway on the Atlantic side of the Bay of Cádiz, and within the small, strategically located city of Cádiz itself.\n\nFrom a Spanish point of view, the Peninsular War was a war of independence against the French Empire and the king installed by Napoleon, his brother Joseph Bonaparte. In 1808, both King Ferdinand VII and his predecessor and father, Charles IV, had resigned their claims to the throne in favor of Napoleon Bonaparte, who in turn passed the crown to his brother Joseph. While many in elite circles in Madrid were willing to accept Joseph's rule, the Spanish people were not. The war began on the night of 2 May 1808, and was immortalized by Francisco Goya's painting \"The Second of May 1808\", also known as \"The Charge of the Mamelukes\".\n\nFrom the outbreak of the Spanish revolt against the Bonapartist regime in 1808, Napoleon's forces faced both Spanish armies and partisans, joined later by British and Portuguese armies under Arthur Wellesley. The Spanish organized an interim Spanish government, the Supreme Central Junta and called for a Cortes to convene with representatives from all the Spanish provinces throughout the worldwide empire, in order to establish a government with a firm claim to legitimacy. The Junta first met on 25 September 1808 in Aranjuez and later in Seville, before retreating to Cádiz.\n\nThe Supreme Central Junta, originally under the leadership of the elderly Count of Floridablanca, initially tried to consolidate southern and eastern Spain to maintain continuity for a restoration of the Bourbons. However, almost from the outset they were in physical retreat from Napoleon's forces, and the comparative liberalism offered by the Napoleonic regime made Floridablanca's enlightened absolutism an unlikely basis to rally the country. In any event, Floridablanca's strength failed him and he died on 30 December 1808.\n\nWhen the Cortes convened in Cádiz in 1810, there appeared to be two possibilities for Spain's political future if the French could be driven out. The first, represented especially by Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos, was the restoration of the absolutist \"Antiguo Régimen\" (\"Old Regime\"); the second was to adopt some sort of written constitution.\n\nRetreating before the advancing French and an outbreak of yellow fever, the Supreme Central Junta moved to Isla de León, where it could be supplied and defended with the help of the Spanish and British navies, and abolished itself, leaving a regency to rule until the Cortes could convene.\n\nThe origins of the Cortes did not harbor any revolutionary intentions, since the Junta saw itself simply as a continuation of the legitimate government of Spain. The opening session of the new Cortes was held on 24 September 1810 in the building now known as the Real Teatro de las Cortes. The opening ceremonies included a civic procession, a mass, and a call by the president of the Regency, Pedro Quevedo y Quintana, the bishop of Ourense, for those present to fulfill their task loyally and efficiently. Still, the very act of resistance to the French involved a certain degree of deviation from the doctrine of royal sovereignty: if sovereignty resided entirely in the monarch, then Charles and Ferdinand's abdications in favor of Napoleon would have made Joseph Bonaparte the legitimate ruler of Spain.\nThe representatives who gathered at Cádiz were far more liberal than the elite of Spain taken as a whole, and they produced a document far more liberal than might have been produced in Spain were it not for the war. Few of the most conservative voices were at Cádiz, and there was no effective communication with King Ferdinand, who was a virtual prisoner in France. In the Cortes of 1810–1812, liberal deputies, who had the implicit support of the British who were protecting the city, were in the majority and representatives of the Church and nobility constituted a minority. Liberals wanted equality before the law, a centralized government, an efficient modern civil service, a reform of the tax system, the replacement of feudal privileges by freedom of contract, and the recognition of the property owner's right to use his property as he saw fit. Three basic principles were soon ratified by the Cortes: that sovereignty resides in the nation, the legitimacy of Ferdinand VII as king of Spain, and the inviolability of the deputies. With this, the first steps towards a political revolution were taken, since prior to the Napoleonic intervention, Spain had been ruled as an absolute monarchy by the Bourbons and their Habsburg predecessors. Although the Cortes was not unanimous in its liberalism, the new Constitution reduced the power of the crown, the Catholic Church (although Catholicism remained the state religion), and the nobility.\nThe Cortes of Cádiz worked feverishly and the first written Spanish constitution was promulgated in Cádiz on 19 March 1812. The Constitution of 1812 is regarded as the founding document of liberalism in Spain and one of the first examples of classical liberalism or conservative liberalism worldwide. It came to be called the \"sacred code\" of the branch of liberalism that rejected the French Revolution, and during the early nineteenth century it served as a model for liberal constitutions of several Mediterranean and Latin American nations. It served as the model for the Norwegian Constitution of 1814, the Portuguese Constitution of 1822 and the Mexican one of 1824, and was implemented with minor modifications in various Italian states by the Carbonari during their revolt of 1820 and 1821.\n\nAs the principal aim of the new constitution was the prevention of arbitrary and corrupt royal rule, it provided for a limited monarchy which governed through ministers subject to parliamentary control. Suffrage, which was not determined by property qualifications, favored the position of the commercial class in the new parliament, since there was no special provision for the Church or the nobility. The constitution set up a rational and efficient centralized administrative system for the whole monarchy based on newly reformed and uniform provincial governments and municipalities, rather than maintaining some form of the varied, historical local governmental structures. Repeal of traditional property restrictions gave liberals the freer economy they wanted.\nThe first provincial government created under the Constitution was in the province of Guadalajara con Molina. Its deputation first met in the village of Anguita in April 1813, since the capital Guadalajara was the site of ongoing fighting.\n\nAmong the most debated questions during the drafting of the constitution was the status of the native and mixed-race populations in Spain's possessions around the world. Most of the overseas provinces were represented, especially the most populous regions. Both the Viceroyalty of New Spain and the Viceroyalty of Peru had deputies present, as did Central America, the islands of the Spanish Caribbean, Florida, Chile, Upper Peru and the Philippines. The total number of representatives was 303, of which thirty-seven were born in overseas territories, although several of these were temporary, substitute deputies [\"suplentes\"] elected by American refugees in the city of Cadiz: seven from New Spain, two from Central America, five from Peru, two from Chile, three from the Río de la Plata, three from New Granada, and two from Venezuela, one from Santo Domingo, two from Cuba, one from Puerto Rico and two from the Philippines. Although most of the overseas representatives were Criollos, the majority wanted to extend suffrage to all indigenous, mixed-race and free black people of the Spanish Empire, which would have granted the overseas territories a majority in the future Cortes. The majority of representatives from peninsular Spain opposed those proposals as they wished to limit the weight of non-\"peninsulares\". According to the best estimates of the time, continental Spain had an estimated population of between 10 and 11 million, while the overseas provinces had a combined population of around 15 to 16 million. The Cortes ultimately approved a distinction between nationality and citizenship (that is, those with the right to vote).\n\nThe Constitution gave Spanish citizenship to natives of the territories that had belonged to the Spanish monarchy in both hemispheres. The Constitution of 1812 included Indigenous peoples of the Americas to Spanish citizenship, but the acquisition of citizenship for any casta of Afro-American peoples of the Americas was through naturalization excluding slaves. Spanish nationals were defined as all people born, naturalized or permanently residing for more than ten years in Spanish territories. Article 1 of the Constitution read: \"The Spanish nation is the collectivity of the Spaniards of both hemispheres.\" Voting rights were granted to Spanish nationals whose ancestry originated from Spain or the territories of the Spanish Empire. This had the effect of changing the legal status of the people not only in peninsular Spain but in Spanish possessions overseas. In the latter case, not only people of Spanish ancestry but also indigenous peoples as well were transformed from the subjects of an absolute monarch to the citizens of a nation rooted in the doctrine of national, rather than royal, sovereignty. At the same time, the Constitution recognized the civil rights of free blacks and \"mulatos\" but explicitly denied them automatic citizenship. Furthermore, they were not to be counted for the purposes of establishing the number of representatives a given province was to send to the Cortes. That had the effect of removing an estimated six million people from the rolls in the overseas territories. In part, this arrangement was a strategy by the peninsular deputies to achieve equality in the number of American and peninsular deputies in the future Cortes, but it also served the interests of conservative Criollo representatives, who wished to keep political power within a limited group of people.\n\nThe peninsular deputies, for the most part, were also not inclined towards ideas of federalism promoted by many of the overseas deputies, which would have granted greater self-rule to the American and Asian territories. Most of the \"peninsulares\", therefore, shared the absolutists' inclination towards centralized government. Another aspect of the treatment of the overseas territories in the constitution —one of the many that would prove not to be to the taste of Ferdinand VII— that by converting these territories to provinces, the king was deprived of a great economic resource. Under the \"Antiguo Régimen\", the taxes from Spain's overseas possessions went directly to the royal treasury; under the Constitution of 1812, it would go to the state administrative apparatus.\n\nThe influence of the 1812 Constitution on the emerging states of Latin America was quite direct. Miguel Ramos Arizpe of Mexico, Joaquín Fernández de Leiva of Chile, Vicente Morales Duárez of Peru and José Mejía Lequerica of Ecuador, among other significant figures in founding American republics, were active participants at Cádiz. One provision of the Constitution, which provided for the creation of a local government (an \"ayuntamiento\") for every settlement of over 1,000 people, using a form of indirect election that favored the wealthy and socially prominent, came from a proposal by Ramos Arizpe. This benefited the bourgeoisie at the expense of the hereditary aristocracy both on the Peninsula and in the Americas, where it was particularly to the advantage of the Criollos, since they came to dominate the \"ayuntamientos\". It also brought in a certain measure of federalism through the back door, both on the peninsula and overseas: elected bodies at the local and provincial level might not always be in lockstep with the central government.\n\nWhen Ferdinand VII was restored in March 1814 by the Allied Powers, it is not clear whether he immediately made up his mind as to whether to accept or reject this new charter of Spanish government. He first promised to uphold the constitution, but was repeatedly met in numerous towns by crowds who welcomed him as an absolute monarch, often smashing the markers that had renamed their central plazas as Plaza of the Constitution. Sixty-nine deputies of the Cortes signed the so-called \"Manifiesto de los Persas\" (\"Manifesto of the Persians\") encouraging him to restore absolutism. Within a matter of weeks, encouraged by conservatives and backed by the Roman Catholic Church hierarchy, he abolished the constitution on 4 May and arrested many liberal leaders on 10 May, justifying his actions as the repudiation of an unlawful constitution made by a Cortes assembled in his absence and without his consent. Thus he came back to assert the Bourbon doctrine that the sovereign authority resided in his person only.\n\nFerdinand's absolutist rule rewarded the traditional holders of power—prelates, nobles and those who held office before 1808—but not liberals, who wished to see a constitutional monarchy in Spain, or many who led the war effort against the French but had not been part of the pre-war government. This discontent resulted in several unsuccessful attempts to restore the Constitution in the five years after Ferdinand's restoration. Finally on 1 January 1820 Rafael del Riego, Antonio Quiroga and other officers initiated a mutiny of army officers in Andalusia demanding the implementation of the Constitution. The movement found support among the northern cities and provinces of Spain, and by 7 March the king had restored the Constitution. Over the next two years, the other European monarchies became alarmed at the liberals' success and at the Congress of Verona in 1822 approved the intervention of royalist French forces in Spain to support Ferdinand VII. After the Battle of Trocadero liberated Ferdinand from control by the Cortes in August 1823, he turned on the liberals and constitutionalists with fury. After Ferdinand's death in 1833, the Constitution was in force again briefly in 1836 and 1837, while the Constitution of 1837 was being drafted. Since 1812, Spain has had a total of seven constitutions; the current one has been in force since 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "36750373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36750373", "title": "Strikes! Labor History Encyclopedia for the Pacific Northwest", "text": "Strikes! Labor History Encyclopedia for the Pacific Northwest\n\nStrikes! Labor History Encyclopedia of the Pacific Northwest is a clearinghouse of information on the labor history of the region developed by the University of Washington and Professor James N. Gregory as part of the Pacific Northwest Labor and Civil Rights History Projects. The Encyclopedia covers the major industries of Washington State, major unions and worker struggles, civil rights activism among many ethnic communities, radical organizations, the Great Depression and the New Deal and the region's rich history of labor and radical newspapers.\n\nThe site is organized into thematic categories, focusing on the core industries and movements that have shaped the social history of the region. These include the timber, waterfront, aerospace, construction, farm industries. Outside of unions and strikes, other aspects of workers and their struggles are examined, from everyday life in the Great Depression to labor culture and art. A particular focus is also given to the intertwined history of radical organizations with labor struggles, including the Industrial Workers of the World, the Communist Party and the United Construction Workers Association. Civil rights organizations and the struggles of black, Asian-American, women, and Latino workers for jobs, housing and equal rights is also cataloged. Much of the content is housed by the individual projects of the Pacific Northwest Labor and Civil Rights History initiative, which has gathered thousands of oral histories, rare photos, vintage newspapers and original academic research.\n\n"}
{"id": "17476780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17476780", "title": "The Partners (book)", "text": "The Partners (book)\n\nThe Partners: Inside America's Most Powerful Law Firms (1983) is a bestselling book by James B. Stewart. The book is a product of two years of investigation of the role of prominent law firms in society. The book describes and discusses several famous cases. There have been five editions of the book as of 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49271775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49271775", "title": "Usul Fiqh in Ja'fari school", "text": "Usul Fiqh in Ja'fari school\n\nJa'fari principles () refers to regulations, history and eminent persons and scholars during the development of shia's Principles of Islamic jurisprudence.\n\nConsidering different stances in relation to Juridical rules and principles, there are some parties in the schools of Principles. These schools try to apply analytical approaches in their methodology. There are somebodies such as Zorarah Ibn Aayon, Muhammad Ibn Moslem, Abu Basir and also Hisham Ibn Salem.Among these individuals, Hisham Ibn Salem and His Pupils had eminent roles in development of principles among shia. In this period two problems are so important such as difference of hadith in one hand and the distinctions of Ijtihad or authority in other hand.There are two early scholars in principles of jurisprudence who were eminent including Hisham ibn Hakam and Yunes Ibn Abd Al Rahman.some scholars know Hisham ibn hakam and hisham ibn salem among the outstanding pupils of Imam Sadiq and Imam Kazim. they wrote important books in the field of principles of jurisprudence such as \"Kitab Al Akhbar\" and \" Kayfa Taseh\" or \"How it is correct?\"\n\nIt seems that the dominant current was the Adherents of Hadith during the fourth century of Lunar hijrah. They didn't any need to knowledge of principles and put it away.In other hand the relatives of Nobakhti begun a new movement in the sphere of theology and kalam among shia and Imamiyyah.Abu Sahl Nobakhti, the popular theologian of Shia schools, could presented a new and complete theological system along with Shia characters.In Fact Abu Sahl Nobakhti concerned with the principles through the theological works such a way that He referred to some questions in the field of the principles.According to Madlung this approach of Abu Sahl Nobakhti and his theological system was along with defending of Imami creeds and theological beliefs.Maybe the most important Abu Sahl's essay in the principles is the essay of \"Naqz Al Shafe'ei or the refusing the shafe'ei which is written against Shafe'ei and also counted as the first completed work in the principles among imamiyyah.besided he written some books on the subjects of refusing Qyias in jurisprudence and ijtihad Al R'ay.Of course there is no track from these works and they are lost.During the fourth century of Hijrah, already one trend is very dominant which is indeed on the basis of refusing of Qiyas and R'ay in jurisprudence. Also there were many books concerned with these subjects among imami Theologians. for example Hasan ibn Mousa Nobakhti wrote a book by the name of \"A book on the khabar Vahed and Amal\".according to this works there is no appication for Qiyas and R'ay.Among The first Mutakalim Jurist in fourth century is Ibn Abi Aqil Ammani as some one who possessed a school which his method was similar to Twelve Imams of Shia and somehow like the Mutazilite schools of thought.\n\nHis complete name was Ibn Abi Aqil Ammani and he came from the Yemen. He was contemporary with Shaykh Koleini. Ibn Aqil counted as pioneer jurist in the principles. He could establishing an approach on which His juridical methodology was dependent on Quranic rules and known traditions.He is the author of a legal work entitled Mutamassak bi Habl Al Rasul, which was one of the most renowned legal sources during the 4th and 5thllOth and 11th centuries. He is the first one who arrange the knowledge of fiqh and give consistency ti it.\n\nIbn Jonayd Eskafi was one of the first and eminent Shia jurists during the fourth century lunar hijrah. He had different approach in understanding of Shia's traditions. He believed that there is a theological basis for interpretation of Hadith on which the Juridical tradition of Imams is not according to Saying but to Ray or opinion.He was an eminent religious scholars among elites.Also Ibn Nadim knows him as great scholars among shia. One of his most important book in Fiqh is Tahzib Al Shia le Ahkam Al Shariah.\n\nNeedness to Usul becomes indispensable when Shia community far away from twelve periods. Also appearance of new subjects intensify this necessity.in development epoch we confronted with three eminent masters in the field of Usul and extending it namely Shaykh Mufid, Sharif Murtaza, Sallar Deylami and Shaykh Tusi.\n\nHe was also called Ibn Muallim, meaning \"son of the teacher\"; Muallim was his father. Among his teachers were the Shia theologian Abu Ali al-Iskafi, Abu Abdallah al-Marzubani, Abu Abdallah al-Basri, Abu al-Hassan, and Ali ibn Isa al-Rummani. Commonly known as the leader of the Shia, Al-Mufid is regarded as the most famous scholar of the Buyid period and an eminent jurist, mainly due to his contributions in the field of kalam. According to Ibn al-Nadim, who knew al-Mufid personally, he was the head of the Shia \"Mutekallimun\" in the field of kalam, and al-Tawhidi, who was also personally familiar with al-Mufid, described him as \"eloquent and skillful at dialectic (\"jadal\")\". His skill in polemical debate was such that he was said to be capable of convincing his opponents \"that a wooden column was actually gold\". He was taught the Islamic science of hadith by Al-Shaykh al-Saduq.\n\nHe was born in Baghdad in 355 Lunar in Rajab Month.He was born in a prominent household.His lineage come backs to Imam kazim he was son of Al Sharif Abu Ahmad the son of Mosa son of Muhammad son of Musa son of Ibrahim son of Musa Kazim Therefore, his sixth ancestor was the seventh imam of shia. His father called him Ali and his nickname was Murtaza. His honorific title was Alam Al Hoda. He called as Alam al Hoda according to a popular narration said by Shahid Avval in The book of Arbaeen as follow: the vizir of abbasid dynasty namely Muhammad ibn Hosein became sick . he saw in his dreams Imam Ali while address him: tell alam Al Hoda till demand Health for you. When Muhammad ibn Hosein ask on the person with such a nickname he told : he is ali ibn Hosein or sharif Murtaza. According to Murtaza, the first of religious duty is the obligation to reason to knowledge of God. The other duties are dependent to this first duty.Al-Murtaza is along with the Mu'tazilite starting-point that man's first duty is to use his reason to arrive at knowledge of God. Also in Kalam proof of the existence of God, he defend from the atomist' stance in versus of Aristortelian notion of substantial change.\n\nHe was born in Tus in Iran in 995 AD/385. In 1018 AD/408 A.H. His life was along with the government of Buyid dynasty. He was born according to praying of twelfth imam of shia namely Mahdi \nHe learned significant level of Islamic sciences of that period in Tus in Khorasan. he left Tus to study in Baghdad. In 1055 AD/447 A.H Tughril-bek entered Baghdad. there he could participate in the courses of Shykh Al-Mufid as paramount teacher. Also he wrote some of his books when he was between twenty and thirty. When he was forty two he participated in the class of his master namely Shaykh Murtaza. At this time many Muslim scholars in Baghdad, both Sunni and Shiʿite were killed. The house of al-Shaikh al-Tusi was burnt down, as were his books and the works he had written in Baghdad, together with important libraries of Shi'ite books. Al-Tusi went to al-Najaf after the fall of Baghdad. He died at Najaf on the 22nd of Muharram in the year 460 A.H/2 December 1067.in confliction between two schools of Ahbaris and usuli, Shaykh Tusi defended of Usuli school and calls akhbari as followers of literate or literalists. Shaykh Tusi believed in principles of jurisprudence as a fundamental knowledge in acquiring the judgments of Islam religion. he wrote in introduction of 'Al-Iddah' book as follow:\n\" thus you may say, it is essential to attach the greatest importance to this branch of knowledge( namely Usul) because the whole of shariah is based on it and the knowledge of the any aspect thereof is not complete without mastering the principles.\nAlso he tries to compare different schools of law in Islam with each other and show there is a little divergence between them and they are near to each other and differences among them is in minor subject not major. Shaykh Tusi, like his Masters, refuted the legal analogy(Qiyyas Fiqhi) in his manual of usul Fiqh.\n\nthis period begans from the end of Sixth into middle of eighth lunar hijrah.Scholars written many detailed books in the fielf of principles.They concerned with principles in detail and accuracy.Scholars such as Ibn Zohreh halabi,Sadid Al Din Hemsi,Najm Al Din Helli,Allameh Helli,Amid Al Din A'araji,Zia Al Din A'araji,Fakhr Al Mohaqeqin, Muhammad Ibn Makki known as first martyr,Shaykh Abdullah Soyouri,Zain Al DIn Ibn Nour Al Din Ali Ibn Ahmad known A Second Martyr, all of them lived in this period.\n\nHis whole name is Ezz Al Din A l Makarem Sayyed Hamzeh Ibn Ali Ibn Zohreh. According To Moreza Mutahhari he learened Tusi's Nihayah under Ibn Hajib. nearly 20th book attributed to him. diversity of them shows his all arounded.His eminent book in principle is Qanyat Al Nozu fi Elmi Al Usul Va foru.\n\nAl-Hilli also known as the sage of Hilla, was born in the still existent town of Al Hillah (in what is now Iraq), commonly viewed as the centre of Shia Islam when Sunni leaders were in control over Baghdad during his life. He entered into a prominent family of Shia jurists and theologians. His father, Sadid ul-Din al-Hilli, was a respected \"mujtahid\" and a leading figure in the Shia community. His maternal uncle Muhaqqiq al-Hilli was also a renowned scholar.He studied theology and fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) in Hilla under the auspices of his father and his uncle, as well as other notable scholars, including: Ali bin Tawus and Ahmad bin Tawus. He also spent some time at the newly established Maragheh observatory, where he studied Avicennan philosophy and mathematics under Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, and was also introduced to the works of Fakhr al-Din al-Razi. Later, he travelled to Baghdad and became acquainted with the doctrines of Ibn Arabi. Al-Hilli's role in shaping Twelver jurisprudence is of great importance. As well as several works and commentaries on usul al-fiqh, he produced a voluminous legal corpus. Of this, two of the most important works are \"al-Mukhtalaf\" (\"The Disagreement\") and \"al-Muntaha\" (\"The End\"). \"Mukhtalaf\" is a legal manual devoted to addressing legal questions in which the Shia jurists hold differing opinions, whereas the \"Muntaha\" is a systematic and detailed exposition of al-Hilli's own legal opinions. He also wrote a summarized legal manual, \"Qawa'id ul-Ahkam\", which was popular amongst later scholars, judging by the number of commentaries that would be written on it. Amongst his later legal works is \"Tadhkirat ul-Fuqaha\", which is a legal manual intended for use by lay persons. He also composed legal works on specific issues (for example, \"Hajj\" or \"Salat\").\n\nMuhaqqiq was born in the city of al-Hilla, Iraq, where he would spend most of his life, to a family of prominent Shi'i jurists. He studied theology, fiqh and usul al-fiqh under his father. Muhaqqiq later became the leader of the Shi'i seminary there.He has many credible books in principles like Mabadi Al Osul,Fakhryyah and others.\n\nMuhammad Jamaluddin al-Makki al-Amili al-Jizzini (1334–1385) also known as Shahid Awwal (Arabic: الشهيد الأول\"ash-Shahid al-Awwal\" \"The First Martyr\"), is the author of Al-Lum'ah ad-Dimashqiya (Arabic: الدمشقية اللمعة, The Damascene Glitter\") and was a Shi'a scholar. Although he is neither the first Muslim, nor the first Shi'te to die for his religion, he became known as \"Shahid Awwal\" because he was probably the first Shia scholar of such stature to have been killed in a brutal manner.When Mohammad bin Makki was 16 years old he went to study at al-Hilla in Iraq. He returned home when he was 21. He used taqiyya to establish himself as one of the religious scholars of Damascus, using Sunni law to judge Sunnis, while covertly judging the Shia using Shia law.\n\nZayn al-Din al-Juba'i al'Amili (1506-1558) was a Shia scholar. He was born in 911 AH. in Jabal Amel.His Magnum opus is the first commentary of \"The Damascene Glitter\" by Shahid Awwal called \"The Beautiful Garden in Interpreting the Damscene Glitter\" (Arabic: \"ar-Rawda-l-Bahiyah fi Sharh allam'a-d-Dimashqiya\" الروضة البهيّة في شرح اللمعة الدمشقيّة ).\n\nThe appearance of Akhbari lies in this period.This school \"crystalized\" as a distinct movement with the writings of Muhammad Amin al-Astarabadi (d. 1627 AD) and achieved its greatest influence in the late Safavid and early post-Safavid era. However, shortly thereafter Muhammad Baqir Behbahani (d. 1792), along with other Usuli mujtahids, crushed the Akhbari movement. Akhbārī ideology is that nothing but the aḥadīth of the Infallible can serve as authoritative evidence in Islam. Akhbārīs also differ from Usūlīs in their rejection of the \"Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists\", arguing that preachers of religion have no role in politics, clerics should advise political leaders but not govern themselves. Akhbaris believe in separation of religion and state in absence of Twelfth Imam, they say that only an infallible ruling Imam has a right to combine religion and state; and which will be accomplished only after the arrival of awaited Shia Imam.\n\n\nJavadi Amoli wrote about source of revelation in Shiism:\n\nIn doubtful cases the law is often derived not from substantive principles induced from existing rules, but from procedural presumptions (\"usul 'amaliyyah\") concerning factual probability. An example is the presumption of continuity: if one knows that a given state of affairs, such as ritual purity, existed at some point in the past but one has no evidence one way or the other whether it exists now, one can presume that the situation has not changed.\n\nThe analysis of probability forms a large part of the Shiite science of \"usul al-fiqh\", and was developed by Muhammad Baqir Behbahani (1706-1792) and Shaykh Murtada al-Ansari (died 1864). The only primary text on Shi'ite principles of jurisprudence in English is Muhammad Baqir as-Sadr's \"Durus fi 'Ilm al-'Usul\".\n\nUşūl al-Fiqh, the methodology of jurisprudence, which is usually – and inaccurately, if not incorrectly – translated “principles of jurisprudence,” is an Islamic science which is developed by Shiite scholars in two recent centuries into an unparalleled intellectual, logical system of thought and a comprehensive branch of knowledge which not only serves as the logic of jurisprudence but as an independent science dealing with some hermeneutical problems.\n\nLack of precise English equivalents to expressions and terms of this complicated science indicates the least difficulties of preparing the first English version of Shiite uşūl al-fiqh.\n\n\"An Introduction to Methodology of Islamic Jurisprudence (Uşūl al-Fiqh)-A Shiite Approach\" is the first English version of Shiite uşūl al-fiqh.\n\nThis book is written by Alireza Hodaee, Professor of Jurisprudence and the Essentials of Islamic Law, University of Tehran.\n\nIt should be noted that most of complicated arguments of such profound science cannot be presented in an introductory work; they should be pursued in detailed books written by great Shiite Uşūlīs.\n\n"}
