{"id": "6487802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6487802", "title": "Abstract space", "text": "Abstract space\n\nAbstract space, in geography, is a hypothetical space characterized by equal and consistent properties; a geographic space that is completely homogeneous. All movement and activity would be equally easy or difficult in all directions and all locations within this space. This concept is useful for modeling or analyzing spatial activity and behavior by limiting or eliminating extraneous variables, such as terrain. For example, if researchers want to study the relationship between culture and trade, they don’t want their model to be overwhelmed or influenced by factors such as mountainous barriers and rivers because these would detract from the purpose of modeling how culture alone effects trade.\n\n"}
{"id": "16823644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16823644", "title": "Acuminate", "text": "Acuminate\n\nTapering to a long point, such as in the shape of leaves or other botanical features such as the stamen filaments.\n\nFrom the 16th century Latin acuminatus 'pointed', from acuminare 'sharpen to a point', and acuere 'sharpen'.\n"}
{"id": "25490591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490591", "title": "Aed mac Conchbair Mac Aodhagáin", "text": "Aed mac Conchbair Mac Aodhagáin\n\nAed mac Conchbair Mac Aodhagáin (1330–1359) was an Irish bard.\n\nMac Aodhagáin was a member of a bardic family who originated from Park, in north County Galway. He was a scribe of Leabhar Ua Maine (The Book of Uí Maine), and based in Dún Daighre, (Duniry), County Galway, and was an ollamh in law for the Clanricarde. His genealogy was Aed mac Conchbair mac Gilla na Naem mic Duinn Sleibhe Mac Aodhagáin .\n\nHe is notable for, along with John Clyn (fl. 1332–1349), one of the few Irish chroniclers to leave a personal note of the Black Death. A marginal note in the book states:\n\"One thousand three hundred and fifty years from the birth of Christ to this night and this is the second year since the coming of the plague to Ireland. I have written this in the twentieth year of my age. I am Aed mac Conchbair Mac Aodhagáin and whoever reads it let him offer a prayer for my soul. This is Christmas night. On this night I place myself under the protection of the king of Heaven and Earth, beseeching that he will bring me and my friends safe through this plague and restore us once more to joy and gladness. Aed mac Conchbair Mac Aodhagáin who wrote this in the year of the great plague.\"\nBeneath the above note is a second, dated a year later, Christmas night 1351:\n\"It is just a year tonight since I wroter the lines on the margin below and if it be God's will, may I reach the anniversary of this night many times, amen.\"\nHe is believed to have attended the great poetic festival held in 1351:\n\"at Christmas by William, the son of Donough Muimhneach O'Kelly, to the learned of Ireland, travellers, the poor and the indigent, and they were all served to their satisfaction, both good and bad, noble and ignoble, so that they were all thankful to him and his son, Melaghlin.\"\n\nAed died in 1359, and was noted as \"the best of the Brehons of Ireland.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6308558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6308558", "title": "Analysis of competing hypotheses", "text": "Analysis of competing hypotheses\n\nThe analysis of competing hypotheses (ACH) allegedly provides an unbiased methodology for evaluating multiple competing hypotheses for observed data. It was developed by Richards (Dick) J. Heuer, Jr., a 45-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, in the 1970s for use by the Agency. ACH is used by analysts in various fields who make judgments that entail a high risk of error in reasoning. It helps an analyst overcome, or at least minimize, some of the cognitive limitations that make prescient intelligence analysis so difficult to achieve.\n\nACH was a step forward in intelligence analysis methodology, but it was first described in relatively informal terms. Producing the best available information from uncertain data remains the goal of researchers, tool-builders, and analysts in industry, academia and government. Their domains include data mining, cognitive psychology and visualization, probability and statistics, etc. Abductive reasoning is an earlier concept with similarities to ACH.\n\nHeuer outlines the ACH process in considerable depth in his book, \"Psychology of Intelligence Analysis\". It consists of the following steps:\n\nThere are many benefits of doing an ACH matrix. It is auditable. It is widely believed to help overcome cognitive biases, though there is a lack of strong empirical evidence to support this belief. Since the ACH requires the analyst to construct a matrix, the evidence and hypotheses can be backtracked. This allows the decisionmaker or other analysts to see the sequence of rules and data that led to the conclusion.\n\nThe process to create an ACH is time consuming. The ACH matrix can be problematic when analyzing a complex project. It can be cumbersome for an analyst to manage a large database with multiple pieces of evidence.\n\nEspecially in intelligence, both governmental and business, analysts must always be aware that the opponent(s) is intelligent and may be generating information intended to deceive. Since deception often is the result of a cognitive trap, Elsaesser and Stech use state-based hierarchical plan recognition (see abductive reasoning) to generate causal explanations of observations. The resulting hypotheses are converted to a dynamic Bayesian network and value of information analysis is employed to isolate assumptions implicit in the evaluation of paths in, or conclusions of, particular hypotheses. As evidence in the form of observations of states or assumptions is observed, they can become the subject of separate validation. Should an assumption or necessary state be negated, hypotheses depending on it are rejected. This is a form of root cause analysis.\n\nEvidence also presents a problem if it is unreliable. The evidence used in the matrix is static and therefore it can be a snapshot in time.\n\nAccording to social constructivist critics, ACH also fails to stress sufficiently (or to address as a method) the problematic nature of the initial formation of the hypotheses used to create its grid. There is considerable evidence, for example, that in addition to any bureaucratic, psychological, or political biases that may affect hypothesis generation, there are also factors of culture and identity at work. These socially constructed factors may restrict or pre-screen which hypotheses end up being considered, and then reinforce confirmation bias in those selected.\n\nPhilosopher and argumentation theorist Tim van Gelder has made the following criticisms:\n\nVan Gelder proposed \"hypothesis mapping\" as an alternative to ACH.\n\nThe structured analysis of competing hypotheses offers analysts an improvement over the limitations of the original ACH. The SACH maximizes the possible hypotheses by allowing the analyst to split one hypothesis into two complex ones.\n\nFor example, two tested hypotheses could be that Iraq has WMD or Iraq does not have WMD. If the evidence showed that it is more likely there are WMDs in Iraq then two new hypotheses could be formulated: WMD are in Baghdad or WMD are in Mosul. Or perhaps, the analyst may need to know what type of WMD Iraq has; the new hypotheses could be that Iraq has biological WMD, Iraq has chemical WMD and Iraq has nuclear WMD. By giving the ACH structure, the analyst is able to give a nuanced estimate.\n\nOne method, by Valtorta and colleagues uses probabilistic methods, adds Bayesian analysis to ACH. A generalization of this concept to a distributed community of analysts lead to the development of CACHE (the Collaborative ACH Environment), which introduced the concept of a Bayes (or Bayesian) community. The work by Akram and Wang applies paradigms from graph theory.\n\nOther work focuses less on probabilistic methods and more on cognitive and visualization extensions to ACH, as discussed by Madsen and Hicks. DECIDE, discussed under automation is visualization-oriented.\n\nWork by Pope and Jøsang uses subjective logic, a formal mathematical methodology that explicitly deals with uncertainty. This methodology forms the basis of the Sheba technology that is used in Veriluma's intelligence assessment software.\n\nA few online and downloadable tools help automate the ACH process. These programs leave a visual trail of evidence and allow the analyst to weigh evidence.\n\nPARC ACH 2.0 was developed by Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) in collaboration with Richards J. Heuer, Jr. It is a standard ACH program that allows analysts to enter evidence and rate its credibility and relevance. Another useful program is the Decision Command software created by Dr. Willard Zangwill.\n\nSSS Research, Inc. is an analytic research firm that created DECIDE. DECIDE not only allows analysts to manipulate ACH, but it provides multiple visualization products.\n\nThere is at least one open source ACH implementation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2199641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199641", "title": "Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies", "text": "Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies (AIATSIS) is an independent Australian Government statutory authority. It is a collecting, publishing and research institute and is considered to be Australia's premier resource for information about the cultures and societies of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. The Institute is a leader in ethical research and the handling of culturally sensitive material and holds in its collections many unique and irreplaceable items of cultural, historical and spiritual significance. The collection at AIATSIS has been built through over 50 years of research and engagement with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities and is now a source of language and culture revitalisation, native title research and family and community history. AIATSIS is located on Acton Peninsula in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory.\n\nIn the late 1950s, there was an increasing focus on the global need for anthropological research into 'disappearing cultures'. This trend was also emerging in Australia in the work of researchers of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, leading to a proposal by W.C. Wentworth MP for the conception of an Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies (AIAS) in 1959.\n\nThe proposal was made as a submission to Cabinet, and argued for a more comprehensive approach by the Australian Government to the recording of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and cultures.\n\nIn 1960, a Cabinet sub-committee assessed the proposal and formed a working party at the Australian National University (ANU) to consider the viability of the proposal. One of their first actions was to appoint W.E.H. Stanner to organise a conference on the state of Aboriginal Studies in Australia, to be held in 1961 at the ANU.\n\nAcademics and anthropologists in the field of Aboriginal Studies attended the conference, and contributed research papers published in a conference report in 1963. No Aboriginal people were present at the conference.\n\nThe Prime Minister, Robert Menzies appointed an Interim Council in 1961. The role of the Interim Council was to plan for a national Aboriginal research organisation and establish how this organisation would interact with existing research and scientific bodies. The Interim Council was also tasked with immediately developing a programme that would identify and address urgent research needs.\n\nThe Interim Council consisted of 16 members and was chaired by Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the ANU, Professor AD Trendall, officially recognised as the first Chair of the institute now known as AIATSIS.\n\nIn August 1962, a draft constitution for the institute was submitted to the Menzies government, and rejected. The Interim Council completed a revised constitution in July 1963. Amendments to the document included the change from the title ‘director’ to ‘principal’ of the institute.\n\nThis version of the constitution would go on to form the basis for the creation of the new Australian Institute for Aboriginal Studies the following year.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies was established as a Statutory authority under an Act of Parliament in June 1964. The mission of the Institute at that time has been described as \"to record language, song, art, material culture, ceremonial life and social structure before those traditions perished in the face of European ways.\"\n\nThis notion is also reflected in the Institute’s official functions, as recorded in the Reading of the Bill in Parliament. These were:\n\nAIAS had a twenty-two member Council, composed mainly of academics, and had a foundation membership of one hundred. The founding Principal of the newly formed institute was Frederick McCarthy, a professional anthropologist and graduate of Sydney University who had spent nearly 30 years working in the field.\n\nThe creation of the AIAS provided an opportunity for greater cross-discipline interaction in fields relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander studies in Australia.\n\nThe Institute’s founding principal, Fred McCarthy, was an advocate of film as an important part of research methodology as early as his tenure as curator of anthropology at the Australian Museum in Sydney in the 1940s. This was evident in the contributions he made during his involvement in establishing the AIAS and also as its principal, in continuing to support the development of the AIAS Film Unit and championing ethnographic film in global forums.\n\nIn the early years of the AIAS, the Film Unit largely outsourced early filmmaking work to other companies, or worked in collaboration with the Commonwealth Film Unit (as early as 1962). But over the next 30 years, the Film Unit would go on to produce “one of the largest assembly of ethnographic films created in the world”.\n\nIn keeping with the AIAS official function “to publish and to support the publication of the results of research”, a publishing arm of the Institute was established in 1964. Publishing under the name Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the publishing arm released a range of papers and research findings, including in the fields of linguistics, demography, physical anthropology, history and musicology.\n\nThe early work of the AIAS is credited with increasing interaction between academics in different fields, as well as establishing the foundations for the extensive collections AIATSIS holds today. But before 1970, there had never been an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander member on the AIAS Council.\n\n\"Money and other resources are in short supply for Aboriginal control of their livelihood, but not, it seems, for discussing it.\" – Eaglehawk and Crow letter, 29 March 1974The 1970s marked a period of change for the AIAS. This began with the appointment of the first Aboriginal member of the AIAS Council in 1970. Phillip Roberts, an Alawa man, served on the Council from September 1970 until June 1972.\n\nThis was followed in 1971 with a second Aboriginal Council member, Senator Neville Bonner, who served on Council until 1974 and for a second term in the late 1970s. And again in 1972, with the appointment of Dick Roughsey to replace Phillip Roberts at the end of his term.\n\nThe appointment of Phillip Roberts to the Council reflected a growing pressure for an increase in Aboriginal representation within the Institute. But the move did not allay the belief held by some Aboriginal activists that the AIAS was engaging in 'tokenism' in the extent to which Aboriginal people were involved in the administration of Aboriginal Studies.\n\nThe changes to the Institute that would take place in the following decade were also influenced by the shifting social and political landscape in Australia. The Aboriginal rights movement was growing and Aboriginal people were demanding a voice on Council, consultation with communities and an increased focus on projects relevant to the needs of Indigenous people.\n\nIn 1972, the Whitlam government was elected. Their policy of Self-determination for Aboriginal people echoed calls for greater Aboriginal involvement in the administration and functions of the AIAS. The new government was also responsible for a significant boost to AIAS funding.\n\nThe appointment of Peter Ucko in 1972 as Principal of the AIAS has since been described as the beginning of an increase in involvement of Aboriginal people in the workings of the Institute.\n\nIn his time as Principal, Ucko was responsible for implementing a policy later labelled “Aboriginalisation”, which was aimed at opening up the Institute to Aboriginal involvement and representation. This policy was influenced by a document circulated in 1974, called the Eaglehawk and Crow letter, which criticised the current model of academic research. The letter asserted that anthropologists \"should not pretend that their studies are objective when the overwhelming factor in the lives of Aborigines is our oppression by the society of which the anthropologist is, to a greater or lesser extent, a part of.\" Its authors called for increased participation of Aboriginal people in the running of the Institute and for greater control over commissioning and funding of research into their cultures.\n\nThe policy and structural changes to the Institute continued throughout the 1970s.\n\nThe Aboriginal Advisory Committee was established in 1975, and consisted of the six Aboriginal members of the AIAS Council. Early recommendations including increased representation of Aboriginal people on committees and the AIAS Council as well as employment at the Institute. The committee was renamed in 1978, to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Advisory Committee.\n\nIn 1975–1976, a category of research grants for Aboriginal researchers was introduced. The emergence of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people filling the role of ‘cultural practitioner’, travelling to the AIAS to provide advice on projects and research being undertaken, was also documented from around 1976 onwards.\n\nThe time Peter Ucko spent as Principal of the AIAS saw a phase of “rapid expansion” for the Institute.\n\nThe AIAS Film Unit that had operated in Sydney until 1973 was re-established in Canberra in 1975. Prominent American-born ethnographic filmmaker David MacDougall was appointed as the Director of this new AIAS Film Unit. With his wife and filmmaking partner Judith, and Kim McKenzie, the Film Unit operated until 1988 when its functions were absorbed back into the Institute.\n\nDuring the MacDougall/McKenzie era, a new style of ethnographic film was explored. One that moved away from film as a scientific record in favour of telling the story of individuals lives. The filmmakers also practised a more collaborative approach to their films, and chose to use translations and subtitles to give direct access to the subjects voice and thoughts rather than the dominant ‘voice of god’ narration style.\n\nOne of the most notable films produced towards the end of this period was \"Waiting for Harry\", a prize-winning film directed by Kim McKenzie with anthropologist Les Hiatt and now considered to exemplify the \"style of collaborative filmmaking\" the Film Unit favoured in their work.\n\nThe power of film to \"influence opinion\" was becoming increasingly recognised and with this, the lack of representation of Aboriginal people telling their own stories. In 1978, a meeting chaired by prominent activist and academic Marcia Langton expressed these concerns, arguing for greater access to film and video in Aboriginal communities, and training in film production by the AIAS.\n\nBy the following year, the AIAS Film Unit had begun to implement a training program and had started employing trainee Aboriginal filmmakers on productions by the early 1980s.\n\nThe AIAS began presenting a biennial Wentworth Lecture in 1978, named as a tribute to W.C. Wentworth for his role in establishing the Institute. The lecture is presented by prominent person with knowledge or experience relating to issues affecting Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in Australia today.\n\nThe expansion of the Institute continued into the 1980s. The Aboriginal Studies Press began publishing the Australian Aboriginal Studies Journal in 1983, a peer-reviewed journal aimed at “promoting high-quality research in Australian Indigenous studies.”\n\nIn 1982, the AIAS established a task force that identified the prevailing need for further ‘Aboriginalisation’ of the Institute’s workforce. At the time, there were four Aboriginal staff members, making up around 7% of the total staff. This was followed in 1985 with the creation of the role of Aboriginal Studies Coordination Officer within the AIAS, whose responsibilities involved improving access for Aboriginal people to the research and resources of the Institute.\n\nThe ‘After 200 Years’ project was launched in 1985, aiming to fill some of the gaps in the AIAS photographic collection; particularly images of daily life in the southern, urban parts of Australia. Aboriginal involvement in selecting subject matter, photographing and documenting the collection was a major part of the project. The three-year project culminated in the publication of a book containing hundreds of photographs of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, and selected by them to represent their community.\n\nThe Rock Art Protection Program (RAPP) commenced in 1986 following a request for such an initiative by the then Minister of Aboriginal Affairs Clyde Holding. The aim of the RAPP was to protect Australian Indigenous rock art. Grants were approved by the Institute to fund various projects related to rock art protection.\n\nThe collections were also expanding, and by 1987 the AIATSIS library encompassed the print collections, a special Bibliographic Section and the Resource Centre (which contained the Institute’s audiovisual materials).\n\nBetween 1987 and 1989, the survival of the AIAS as an independent statutory body was tied to a proposal for a new statutory commission that would take over all aspects of the Aboriginal Affairs portfolio. This commission would become the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC), conceived in an Act of Parliament in 1989. The AIAS would not be folded into this commission; instead it would be recreated under a new Act with a new name.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies (AIATSIS) Act was passed by parliament in 1989, replacing the AIAS Act. The newly established AIATSIS had a reduced Council consisting of nine members, with the AIATSIS Act specifying that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people hold a minimum of five of these Council positions.\n\nThe new Act also established a Research Advisory Committee, to assess research applications and advise the Council.\n\nThe Aboriginal Studies Press published their best-selling Aboriginal Australia map in 1996, based on research conducted for the Encyclopaedia of Aboriginal Australia.\n\nIn 2001, the Institute launched a two-year Library Digitisation Pilot Program (LDPP). Among the items digitised, catalogued and made available online were 267 volumes of the Dawn and New Dawn magazines held in the AIATSIS collection. AIATSIS also distributed over 2000 free copies of these magazines on CD-Rom, to Indigenous organisations, schools and libraries in New South Wales.\n\nThroughout this period, AIATSIS continued to undertake projects focused on the digitisation of collection materials, including their holdings of the complete back catalogue of Koori Mail. This involved scanning over 35,000 pages from 500 editions of the newspaper, with searchable copies launched on the AIATSIS website in partnership with Koori Mail in 2011.\n\nAs part of their research functions, AIATSIS also initiated a number of public programs and research related events during this time that are still run today. The Institute has convened the National Indigenous Studies Conference every two years since 2001 and the National Native Title Conference every year since 2002.\n\nThe ‘After 200 Years’ photographic project was revisited in 2014 with an exhibition of images at Parliament House, to coincide with AIATSIS’ 50-year anniversary.\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies Act 1989 is a Commonwealth Act of Parliament that establishes the purpose and functions of AIATSIS.\n\nThe main functions of AIATSIS under the Act are:\n\nThe AIATSIS Act 1989 also established a Research Advisory Committee and sets out the framework for the AIATSIS Council; specifying the number of members and the minimum representation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander members on Council.\n\nOther legislation that governs the operations of AIATSIS are the \"Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013\" and the \"Public Service Act 1999\".\n\nThe Minister for Education and Training is responsible for the Institute, as AIATSIS is part of the portfolio of the Department of Education and Training.\n\nThe AIATSIS Council is a governing body designed to oversee and steer the functions and direction of the Institute. The role and responsibilities of the Council are mandated in the AIATSIS Act 1989 and detailed in the AIATSIS Council Charter.\n\nThe Council consists of nine members, four are elected by the Institute's membership and five appointed by the Minister.\n\nAccording to the AIATSIS Act 1989, one person appointed by the Minister must be a Torres Strait Islander and the four other people appointed by the Minister must be Aboriginal persons or Torres Strait Islanders. The four Council members elected by the Institute’s membership must be members themselves.\n\nCurrent AIATSIS Council Chairperson:\n\nThe first Aboriginal Chairperson of AIATSIS Council:\n\nThe first Aboriginal woman to be Chairperson of AIATSIS Council:\n\nThe Research Advisory Committee (RAC) is responsible for assessing and advising on AIATSIS research projects and programs, including research grants.\n\nThe functions of the Research Advisory Committee are established in the AIATSIS Act, 1989. They are:\n\nThere are twelve members of the RAC. Three Council members are appointed by the Council and eight members of the Institute are elected by the members. The final RAC member is the AIATSIS Principal.\n\nThe Research Ethics Committee (REC) is responsible for advising AIATSIS on the ethics of the research proposals by staff or grantees of AIATSIS, as well as research carried out through the Institute’s external collaborations.\n\nThe roles in the Research Ethics Committee are based on guidelines published by the National Health and Medical Research Council. There are eight members appointed by the AIATSIS Council, with at least four being Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander people, as follows:\n\n\nThe functions of the REC are governed by the AIATSIS Research Ethics Committee Charter.\n\nThe Native Title Research Advisory Committee (NTRAC) was established by the AIATSIS Council to oversee the work of the Native Title Research Unit and provide advice to the AIATSIS Principal.\n\nThere are ten members of the NTRAC, held by people fulfilling the following criteria:\n\n\nThe NTRAC shares oversight of the quality, independence and ethical research of the Native Title Research Unit with the AIATSIS Council and the Research Ethics Committee.\n\nThe Publishing Advisory Committee (PAC) is responsible for making recommendations to the AIATSIS Principal on the selection of manuscripts for publication by the Aboriginal Studies Press.\n\nManuscripts are first submitted to and read by Aboriginal Studies Press staff and are then subject to peer review by scholars and professionals before being assessed by the PAC.\n\nThe PAC members contribute the following range of skills: academic credentials; Indigenous community and language knowledge; and writing and publishing expertise.\n\nThe Indigenous Caucus is a working group within AIATSIS providing a forum for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander staff to meet and discuss workplace issues. The Caucus also provides advice to the AIATSIS Principal, as well as the broader Institute and its Committees.\n\nCaucus also has representatives on the AIATSIS Consultative Committee, a forum for staff and management of the Institute to discuss issues.\n\nThe Indigenous Caucus was revitalised in 2003–2004 and contributed to the development of policies and procedures in that year, notably AIATSIS’ Indigenous Training and Career Development Plan.\n\nIn 2013, the Indigenous Caucus developed a formal Service Charter and elected an Executive consisting of three members.\n\nThe AIATSIS Act sets the organisation the task of conducting, facilitating and promoting research in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies and training Indigenous researchers. For over 50 years, AIATSIS has conducted research across a range of areas of study relevant to Indigenous peoples, culture, heritage, knowledge and experiences. This has led to a diverse research history; from languages and archaeological research, land rights and political engagement to contemporary topics in health and commerce.\n\nThe AIATSIS collections not only contain priceless records of Australia’s Indigenous cultural heritage, but provide a significant national and international research infrastructure for research by, for and about Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples.\n\nAIATSIS is one of Australia’s Publicly Funded Research Agencies, alongside organisations such as CSIRO and the Australian Institute of Marine Science. AIATSIS is Australia's only non-science PFRA.\n\nCurrently AIATSIS undertakes research in six priority areas.\n\n\nAIATSIS publishes the Guidelines for Ethical Research in Australian Indigenous Studies (referred to as GERAIS), a document considered to be the leading ethics guidelines for conducting research in and with Indigenous communities in Australia.\n\nThe guidelines consist of 14 principles. These principles broadly fit under the following themes:\n\n\nThe GERAIS document is required reading for researchers applying for Ethical Clearance for research sponsored by AIATSIS. However, the guidelines are also intended by AIATSIS to inform all research in the field of Indigenous studies.\n\nOriginally published by AIATSIS in 2000, the latest version of the GERAIS document was published in 2012. This update was made to reflect legal and technological developments that had occurred since original publication. In particular, in the area of intellectual property and the rights of Indigenous people in their traditional knowledge and cultural expressions as well as progress in digitisation technologies and data and information management.\n\nThese changes reflect AIATSIS’ support for the importance of research projects involving appropriate ethical conduct and rights protection for both the way data is collected during research and the findings and materials generated through that research.\n\nThe GERAIS document is the first point of reference in the ethical review process researchers must undergo before AIATSIS will sponsor a research project. All research projects are reviewed by the Research Ethics Committee for approval, using the following project documents:\n\n\nIn 2013, AIATSIS was involved in the review of two National Health and Medical Research Council research ethics guidelines relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health research.\n\nAIATSIS began undertaking Native Title research activities through the Native Title Research Unit in 1993, following the 1992 Mabo v Queensland High Court decision. Native Title research at AIATSIS is primarily funded through the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet but research has also been conducted in partnership with other departments and organisations including the Australian National University, the Australian Conservation Foundation and the Federal Court of Australia.\n\nThe Native Title Research Advisory Committee, the Research Advisory Committee and the AIATSIS Council oversee the work conducted in Native Title and traditional ownership research at AIATSIS.\n\nAIATSIS conducts a range of research projects relating to Native Title and traditional ownership, including Native Title and cultural heritage, Native Title and fresh and sea water, and Prescribed Body Corporates.\n\nThe role of Native Title research at AIATSIS is to monitor outcomes of Native Title and through research and study, provide advice on Native Title policy development. The Institute publishes a range of materials relating to Native Title including books, discussion papers, research reports and a Native Title Newsletter.\n\nAIATSIS also provides a Native Title Research and Access Officer, who is responsible for assisting Native Title claimants to access materials from the AIATSIS collections in support of their claim.\n\nAIATSIS also contributes to Native Title policy and research by co-organising the Annual National Native Title Conference.\n\nAIATSIS publishes a number of resources for anyone wishing to undertake research into their own family history.\n\nThe \"Family History kit\" is aimed at providing the basics for tracing Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage. It contains guides to AIATSIS’ own resources, including the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Biographical Index (ABI) and digitised collection materials, as well as guides to external resources that may help with family history research.\n\nGeneral guidance is also provided regarding research resources specific to Indigenous family history research, historical name conventions and usage and confirmation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage.\n\nAIATSIS also provides research support to Link-Up case workers and researchers around Australia, who are assisting members of the Stolen Generations to reconnect with their family and heritage.\n\nAIATSIS is the only Commonwealth institution responsible for collecting and maintaining materials documenting the oral and visual traditions and histories of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. The Institute identifies its collection as a “keeping place for culturally significant objects” that is “a resource for anybody looking to improve their knowledge of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander history and culture.” The Institute's holdings represent thousands of years of history and more than 500 Australian Indigenous languages, dialects and groups. This collection supports, and is a result of, research in the fields of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies.\n\nAn independent assessment in 2014 confirmed that AIATSIS holds over 6 million feet of film, over 40,000 hours of audio, 12,800 unpublished manuscripts and record series, 653,000 photographs, and 120,000 print and published materials (3,000 of which are rare books) among other miscellanea.\n\nThere are a number of items within the AIATSIS collection that have been both nationally and internationally recognised as significant:\n\nThe Audiovisual Archives also holds copies of the first audio recorded in Australia; a series of ethnographic wax cylinder recordings made in the Torres Strait Islands in 1898. The Cambridge Anthropological Expedition to the Torres Strait, led by Alfred Cort Haddon, recorded songs and speech from Mer/Murray Island, Mabuiag/Jervis Island, Saibai Island, Tudu Island and Iama/Yam Island.\n\nThe AIATSIS collection is housed and managed through the Library and the Audiovisual Archive, and is broadly categorised into the following groups:\n\nArt and artefact: a collection of items including ritual objects, folk art, children’s art and modern or ‘high art’ and span from the late 19th century to the present day. This sub-collection comprises around 600 artworks and 500 artefacts, acquired either as a result of AIATSIS-sponsored field research or through donation or purchase.\n\nBooks and printed material: a collection of books, pamphlets, serials including magazines and government reports, reference publications such as dictionaries and other published material. This sub-collection holds over 175,680 titles, including 16,000 books and 3740 serials consisting of 34,000 individual issues and is used to support research, especially in Native Title cases and Link-Up services for members of the Stolen Generations.\n\nFilm: a collection of historical ethnographic films, documentaries and other published film and video titles, consisting of over 8 million feet of film and 4000 videos. Many of the films in the collection were produced by the AIAS Film Unit, which operated between 1961 and 1991.\n\nManuscripts and rare books: a collection of more than 11,700 manuscripts, 2,600 rare books dating from 1766, 2,200 rare pamphlets and 1,700 rare serial titles consisting of 14,650 issues held in secure, environmentally controlled storage. Items are included in this classification on the basis of their age, rarity, value or sensitivity of the content for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Among these items are the Sorry Books and the WEH Stanner papers.\n\nPictorial: this collection contains roughly 650,000 photographs that date from modern day as far back as the late 1800s, and more than 90% of images in the pictorial collection are unique to AIATSIS, making it the most comprehensive record of its kind relating to Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.\n\nSound: a collection of many unique and unpublished sound recordings totalling approximately 40,000 hours of audio. The recordings represent a breadth of cultural and historical information including languages, ceremonies, music, oral histories and interviews with participants in significant events such as the 1965 Freedom Rides and Prime Minister Kevin Rudd’s Apology to the Stolen Generations.\n\nSince the establishment of the Institute in 1964, the AIATSIS collection has been developed through acquisition by donation, gift and purchase or, through materials created and collected during the work of ethnographic field researchers and filmmakers funded by the AIATSIS grants program. The collection has also been built through deposits of materials, an arrangement which permits the original owners to assign access and use conditions appropriate to the cultural information contained in the items.\n\nAIATSIS’ approach to collection building is based on three primary criteria:\n\nOnce material has been acquired by AIATSIS, the Institute faces the challenges of maintaining a cultural resource collection. This is achieved through a collection management plan that involves processes of recording and cataloguing, and appropriate storage and handling to extend the life of physical items and preserving their content through format shifting.\n\nPreservation of physical items in the collection is achieved in two key ways:\n\nThere are a wide variety of analogue photograph, tape and film formats held in the AIATSIS collection, which pose special preservation and future access risks. The age of some of these formats and materials, combined with the varying conditions in which they were stored prior to their acquisition by AIATSIS, heightens the deterioration of the media. Another preservation issue inherent in these analogue materials is the machines that can play back that particular format, as in some cases the material and the playback device are no longer manufactured. To manage these risks and maintain future access to the collection, preservation of the actual content contained in collection items is also achieved through a program of digitisation.Due to the potential issues of long-term archiving and storage of digital items, the opposite process is often employed to ensure access and preservation. In the case of digital publications and manuscripts, the originals will often be printed and incorporated into the print collections as an additional preservation measure.\n\nThe AIATSIS collection holds material that is sensitive and/or secret/sacred to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. In accordance with its founding Act, and as part of their collection management plan, AIATSIS adheres to strict protocols when handling and processing these sensitive items. The Institute also supports and adheres to the protocols developed by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Library, Information and Resource Network (ATSILIRN). Restricted visual media such as photographs and printed items are stored separately to the rest of the collection and audio and moving image items are not played until any cultural requirements are checked. Restricted material must also be carefully handled during digitisation, which means that the work is carried out in secured conditions such as enclosed booths and by staff that can meet the protocols of the item being digitised.\nAIATSIS launched its Library Digitisation Pilot Program in 2001, before which the Library had no dedicated digitisation equipment or policies for managing digital materials. This two-year program was originally funded by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC), and involved the creation of digital collections across the institution.\n\nSince then AIATSIS has continued to incorporate digitisation of the collection into its management plan, but have publicly stated that an increase in funding is required for the Institute to digitise some of the at risk formats held in the collection before those items are lost.\n\nGiven these limitations, AIATSIS prioritises the selection of materials for digitisation using factors including significance of the item/s, the level of deterioration, cultural protocols, copyright status, and client demand. One of the identified priorities of the program is to digitise and preserve all of the audiovisual collection currently on endangered magnetic tape formats by the 2025 deadline set by UNESCO.\n\nThe collection is housed in the AIATSIS building on Acton Peninsula and is accessible through a number of resources. The AIATSIS Library is open to the public and holds a range of printed materials including manuscripts, journals, readers in different Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages, dictionaries, published books and rare books, maps, and posters.\n\nAccess to AIATSIS' print and manuscript collections can be made through the Library's Stanner Reading Room and the film, sound and pictorial collections by appointment through the Access Unit. These physical access points are open limited hours.\n\nThe AIATSIS Digitisation Program contributes to increased access to the collection; whether access is through on site resources, the provision of copies of materials or the sharing of the collection online. Due to increasing obsolescence of analogue formats, AIATSIS identifies digitisation as the way to preserve those items for future generations to access. This is considered to be particularly important for facilitating “remote access by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities” as well as for access by researchers and the general public.\n\nThe AIATSIS Access Unit runs a program called Return of Material to Indigenous Communities (ROMTIC), through which Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander clients are provided with up to twenty copies of collection materials that relate to their language group or family. This service is limited to items that have been preserved, so AIATSIS’ digitisation program has allowed an increasing number of digital items available to ROMTIC clients.\n\nAIATSIS also makes the collection available through a series of online exhibitions and digitised collection material published on their website. These showcase different themes or discrete collections of material, including:\n\n\nAccess to the AIATSIS collection is also dictated by legislation governing the Institute and in some instances by legal agreements outlining the terms under which collection materials can be used.\n\nThe terms for access to the AIATSIS collection are in the first instance set by the AIATSIS Act, Section 41. This section states:\n\nThe conditions referred to in Section 41(1) of the AIATSIS Act are usually covered in the agreement that AIATSIS enters into when material is deposited. These agreements, along with the section 41(2) of the Act, can govern the way that unpublished material can be accessed and used.\n\nAccess to and use of material in the AIATSIS collection is also subject to the terms set out in the Copyright Act (1968).\n\nWhen a donation or deposit is being made, AIATSIS requests to be made aware of any sensitive items included in the material. The secret or sacred nature of information contained in many collection items is an important factor in access to the AIATSIS collection. To protect items of high cultural sensitivity and reflect appropriate cultural values, access to items that contain culturally sensitive information are restricted to groups or individuals who have the permission of the relevant Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander community and the depositor if restrictions have been applied by them.\n\nAIATSIS also acknowledges the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and in particular Article 31's recognition of the right of Indigenous people to \"maintain, control, protect and develop their cultural heritage, traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions.\"\n\nIn response to these complex issues AIATSIS developed an overarching Access and Use Policy in 2014, to “manage legal and cultural rights over material while maximising accessibility.”\n\nSince its inception, AIATSIS has developed and maintained a range of resources to enhance discoverability of the collection.\n\nOne of the most significant of these resources is the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Biographical Index (ABI). The ABI had its beginnings in 1979 as a non-selective biographical register of names, constructed using information on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people from published material in the collection. In the early years of the biographical register, it was hoped it could “provide an important record of the achievements of Aboriginal people, and be a source of pride for generations to come\".\n\nToday the index continues to be updated, now containing over 70,000 records and searchable online through AIATSIS’ collection catalogue.\n\nOther resources available on site include the Perfect Pictures Database, which contains over 140,000 digitised images from the AIATSIS Photographic Collection. This database is added to as more images are digitised and only includes images that are free of secret/sacred access restrictions.\n\nAIATSIS also hosts or contributes to a number of online resources, aimed at facilitating access to and understanding of the collection. These include:\n\n\nIn keeping with its mandated functions, AIATSIS publishes the results of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies through their publishing arm, Aboriginal Studies Press (ASP). The Institute began publishing in 1962 with \"A demographic survey of the Aboriginal population of the Northern Territory, with special reference to Bathurst Island Mission\". This and other early publications were released under the imprint Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the former title of AIATSIS. The ASP publishing imprint was trademarked in 2002, but was operating as the publishing arm of AIATSIS as early as the publication of Helen Ross’ \"Just For Living\" in 1987.\n\nThe AIATSIS Research Publications became an imprint in 2011 and its stated purpose is to publish scholarly research that is derived from the AIATSIS Research Program. Along with the Research program, ASP also publishes the Australian Aboriginal Studies (AAS) journal. All Aboriginal Studies Press-branded titles are peer-reviewed and the majority are published concurrently in print and several ebook formats. The first phone app was published in 2013, and was shortlisted for the 2013 Mobile Awards.\n\nTitles published by ASP have included research reports, monographs, biographies, autobiographies, family and community histories, and children’s books. Since 2005 the list has aligned more closely with the Institute’s research focus. Most publications derive from academic research, some funded by AIATSIS. ASP publishes books by both Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and non-Indigenous authors who are writing in the field of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies. In some cases Aboriginal authors, like Doreen Kartinyeri and Joan Martin, have chosen to write in collaboration with non-Aboriginal oral historians.\n\n\"Cleared Out\" (2005) won two WA Premier’s Book Awards and inspired the multi-award-winning documentary film, \"Contact\". The creation of both the book and film reflect strong family and community engagement.\n\n\"The Little Red Yellow Black Book\" (updated 2008, 2012) was shortlisted with its companion website in the Australian Publishers Association Educational Awards, and is a widely recognised as an educational and cross-cultural training resource.\n\nAnother widely used resource published by Aboriginal Studies Press is the Aboriginal Australia map. The Aboriginal Australia map represents the general locations of larger groupings of Aboriginal people, using research that was conducted during the development of \"The Encyclopaedia of Aboriginal Australia\", which was another significant ASP publication. Previous milestone publications included the book \"After 200 Years\", a collaboration showcasing photographs and stories of Aboriginal people as selected by members of those communities. Both books are now out of print and only available in libraries.\n\nASP also publishes the Stanner Award winner for a manuscript by an Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander, which recognises the importance of being published to emerging academics. The prize includes mentoring and editorial support by ASP, as well as publication of the manuscript.\n\nThe Publishing Advisory Committee makes recommendations to the AIATSIS Principal and Aboriginal Studies Press about which manuscripts to publish from those submitted.\n\nAboriginal Studies Press has relationships with distributors and resellers for both national and international print and ebook distribution.\n\n\nAIATSIS hosts a range of special events and research workshops, symposiums and conferences. Yearly and two-early events and conferences include:\n\n\nAIATSIS is located on the Acton Peninsula in a building that was newly built for the Institute and opened in 2001. The building was officially opened by the Honourable W.C. Wentworth and Mr Ken Colbung. As part of the opening the Ngunnawal people, the traditional owners of the land on which the AIATSIS building stands performed a Welcome to Country and smoking ceremony, and the Anbarra people from North Central Arnhem Land performed a friendship ceremony, known as Rom.\n\nThe architect, Howard Ragatt of the firm Ashton Raggatt McDougall designed the building for AIATSIS and for its neighbour on the Acton Peninsula, the National Museum of Australia. The building cost $13.75 million and was funded by the Commonwealth Government’s Centenary of Federation Grants Program.\n\nThe design of the AIATSIS building has been the subject of differing interpretations. The rear of the building has been described as a black copy of pioneer architect Le Corbusier's 1920's Villa Savoye in France. The architect, Howard Raggatt, was quoted as confirming this influence but has also stated that it is designed to be reminiscent of Sidney Nolan's famous paintings of Ned Kelly.\n\nDuring design of the AIATSIS building, it was reoriented from original plans to save two Apple Box trees that were identified as significant to the Peninsula.\n"}
{"id": "889914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889914", "title": "Bashkardi language", "text": "Bashkardi language\n\nBashkardi or Bashagerdi is a Southwestern Iranian language spoken in the southeast of Iran in the provinces of Kerman, Sistan and Baluchestan, and Hormozgan. The language is closely related to Larestani and Kumzari languages, it forms a transitional dialect group to northwestern Iranian Balochi, due to intense areal contact, with South Bashkardi being more divergent from its southwestern Iranian neighbours than North Bashkardi.\n"}
{"id": "371231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371231", "title": "Bashkir language", "text": "Bashkir language\n\nThe Bashkir language (, башҡорт теле ) is a Turkic language belonging to the Kipchak branch. It is co-official with Russian in the Republic of Bashkortostan, European Russia and has approximately 1.2 million speakers in Russia. Bashkir has three dialects: Southern, Eastern and Northwestern.\n\nSpeakers of Bashkir mostly live in the Russian republic of Bashkortostan. Many speakers also live in Tatarstan, Chelyabinsk, Orenburg, Tyumen, Sverdlovsk and Kurgan Oblasts and other regions of Russia. Minor Bashkir groups also live in Kazakhstan and other countries.\n\nBashkir together with Tatar belongs to the Bulgaric () subgroups of the Kipchak languages. They both share the same vocalism and the vowel shifts (see below) that make both the languages stand apart from most other Kipchak and Oghuz Turkic languages.\n\nHowever, Baskrir differs from Tatar in several important ways:\n\nThe Bashkir orthography is more explicit. and are written with their own letters Ҡ ҡ and Ғ ғ, whereas in Tatar they are treated as positional allophones of and , written К к and Г г.\n\nLabial vowel harmony in Bashkir is written explicitly, e.g. Tatar тормышым \"tormışım\" and Bashkir тормошом \"tormoşom\", both pronounced , meaning \"my life\".\n\nAfter the adoption of Islam, which began in the 10th century and lasted for several centuries, the Bashkirs began to use Turki as a written language. Turki was written in a variant of the Arabic script.\n\nIn 1923, a writing system based on the Arabic script was specifically created for the Bashkir language. At the same time, the Bashkir literary language was created, moving away from the older written Turkic influences. At first, it used a modified Arabic alphabet. In 1930 it was replaced with the Unified Turkic Latin Alphabet, which was in turn replaced with an adapted Cyrillic alphabet in 1939.\n\nThe modern alphabet used by Bashkir is based on the Russian alphabet, with the addition of the following letters: Ә ә , Ө ө , Ү ү , Ғ ғ , Ҡ ҡ , Ң ң , Ҙ ҙ , Ҫ ҫ , Һ һ .\n\nBashkir has nine native vowels, and three or four loaned vowels (mainly in Russian loanwords).\n\nPhonetically, the native vowels are approximately thus (with the Cyrillic letters and the usual Latin romanization in angle brackets; R+ means rounded):\nThe two mid unrounded vowels are always short, in an unstressed position they are frequently elided, as in кеше \"keşe\" > 'person', or ҡышы \"qışı\" > '(his) winter'. Low back is rounded in the first syllable and after , but not in the last, as in бала \"bala\" 'child', балаларға \"balalarğa\" 'to children'. In Russian loans there are also , , and , written the same as the native vowels: ы, е/э, о, а respectively.\nThe mid vowels may be transcribed as lowered near-high [, , , ].\n\nHistorically, the Old Turkic mid vowels have raised from mid to high, whereas the Old Turkic high vowels have become the Bashkir reduced mid series. (The same shifts have also happened in Tatar.)\n\n\nA member of the Turkic language family, Bashkir is an agglutinative, SOV language. A large part of the Bashkir vocabulary has Turkic roots; and there are many loan words in Bashkir from Russian, Arabic and Persian sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "620427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620427", "title": "Bermudian English", "text": "Bermudian English\n\nBermudian English is a regional accent of English found in Bermuda, a British overseas territory in the North Atlantic. Standard English is used in professional settings and in writing, while vernacular Bermudian English is spoken on more casual occasions. The Bermudian accent began to develop following settlement in the early 17th century, and retains traits of Elizabethan English.\n\nCasual observers tend to have difficulty in placing the Bermudian accent, as it differs from those that are clearly British, American or Caribbean; they also note that the accent tends to vary between individuals. To Americans, it sounds slightly British, while the British find it more American.\n\nBermudian English has been called \"one of the most severely underresearched varieties of English\". It primarily shows a mixture of traits typical of British English and American English, and is generally classified as a form of American (rather than Caribbean) English. The most detailed scholarly study of Bermudian English, in 1933, stated that this type of speech \"would create least remark, if indeed any, between, say, Norfolk, Virginia, and Charleston, South Carolina\"; British-Bermudian actor Earl Cameron noted that because the Bermudian accent sounded American, he was able to land a speaking role in 1942. Large scale West Indian immigration to Bermuda, especially Sandys and Pembroke parishes, began with the expansion of the Royal Naval Dockyard (as a result of the lack of cheap, unskilled labour in Bermuda) at the turn of the twentieth century, and affected the dialect of certain demographic groups. Consequently, in certain aspects of vocalization, some Bermudian English dialects are close to some versions of Caribbean English, and some would bracket all these varieties to the broad region of the \"English-speaking West Indies\". Azorean Portuguese has also impacted on Bermudian English as a result of immigration since the 1840s.\n\nThe accent's most evident characteristic is a variation in letter/sound assignment. The switching of and , characteristic of many dialects in Southern England during the 18th and 19th centuries, and of and (similarly to the dialects of English speakers of Gaelic heritage), when combined with a front vowel, can both be seen in the title of a humorous glossary, \"Bermewjan Vurds\" (Bermudian Words). The use of and is interchangeable and vowels are often elongated.\n"}
{"id": "73367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73367", "title": "Big business", "text": "Big business\n\nBig business involves large-scale corporate-controlled financial or business activities. As a term, it describes activities that run from \"huge transactions\" to the more general \"doing big things\". The concept first rose in a symbolic sense after 1880 in connection with the combination movement that began in American business at that time. United States corporations that fall into the category of \"big business\" include ExxonMobil, Walmart, Google, Microsoft, Apple, General Electric, General Motors, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, and JPMorgan Chase. The largest German corporations included Daimler AG, Deutsche Telekom, Siemens, and Deutsche Bank. Among the largest companies in the United Kingdom are HSBC, Barclays, WPP plc, and BP.\nThe latter half of the 19th century saw more technological advances and corporate growth in additional sectors, such as petroleum, machinery, chemicals, and electrical equipment. (See Second Industrial Revolution.)\n\nThe automotive industry began modestly in the late-19th century, but grew rapidly following the development of large-scale gasoline production in the early 20th century.\n\nThe relatively stable period of rebuilding after World War II led to new technologies (some of which were spin-offs from the war years) and new businesses.\n\nThe new technology of computers spread worldwide in the post war years. Businesses built around computer technology include: IBM, Microsoft, Apple Inc., Samsung, and Intel.\n\nMiniaturization and integrated circuits, together with an expansion of radio and television technologies, provided fertile ground for business development. Electronics businesses include JVC, Sony (Masaru Ibuka and Akio Morita), and Texas Instruments (Cecil H. Green, J. Erik Jonsson, Eugene McDermott, and Patrick E. Chodery), while also the companies in the computer-section above can be considered electronics.\n\nNuclear power was added to fossil fuel as the main sources of energy.\n\nThe social consequences of the concentration of economic power in the hands of those persons controlling \"big business\" has been a constant concern both of economists and of politicians since the end of the 19th century. Various attempts have been made to investigate the effects of \"bigness\" upon labor, consumers, and investors, as well as upon prices and competition. \"Big business\" has been accused of a wide variety of misdeeds that range from the exploitation of the working class to the corruption of politicians and the fomenting of war.\n\nCorporate concentration can lead to influence over government in areas such as tax policy, trade policy, environmental policy, foreign policy, and labor policy through lobbying. In 2005, the majority of Americans believed that big business has \"too much power in Washington.\"\n\nThis article is originally based on material from \"Dictionary of American History\" by James Truslow Adams, New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1940\n"}
{"id": "3033684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033684", "title": "Bryges", "text": "Bryges\n\nBryges or Briges () is the historical name given to a people of the ancient Balkans. They are generally considered to have been related to the Phrygians, who during classical antiquity lived in western Anatolia. Both names, \"Bryges\" and \"Phrygians\", are assumed to be variants of the same root. Based on archaeological evidence, some scholars such as Nicholas Hammond and Eugene N. Borza argue that the Bryges/Phrygians were members of the Lusatian culture that migrated into the southern Balkans during the Late Bronze Age.\n\nThe earliest mentions of the Bryges are contained in the historical writings of Herodotus, who relates them to Phrygians, stating that according to the Macedonians, the Bryges \"changed their name\" to \"Phryges\" after migrating into Anatolia, a movement which is thought to have happened between 1200 BC and 800 BC perhaps due to the Bronze Age collapse, particularly the fall of the Hittite Empire and the power vacuum that was created. In the Balkans, the Bryges occupied central Albania and northern Epirus, as well as Macedonia, mainly west of the Axios river, but also Mygdonia, which was conquered by the kingdom of Macedon in the early 5th century BC. They seem to have lived peacefully next to the inhabitants of Macedonia, however, Eugammon in his \"Telegony\", drawing upon earlier epic traditions, mentions that Odysseus commanded the Epirotian Thesprotians against the Bryges. Small groups of Bryges, after the migration to Anatolia and the expansion of the kingdom of Macedon, were still left in northern Pelagonia and around Epidamnus.\n\nHerodotus also mentions that in 492 BC, some Thracian Brygoi or Brygians (Greek: Βρύγοι Θρήικες) fell upon the Persian camp by night, wounding Mardonius himself, though he went on with the campaign until he subdued them. These Brygoi were later mentioned in Plutarch's \"Parallel Lives\", in the Battle of Philippi, as camp servants of Brutus. However, modern scholars state that a historical link between them and the original Bryges cannot be established.\n\nThere is no certain derivation for the name and tribal origin of the Bryges. In 1844, Hermann Müller suggested the name might be related to the same Indo-European root as that of German \"Berg\" (mountain) and Slavic \"breg\" (hill, slope, mountain), i.e. IE \n\nSome personal or geographic names mentioned in ancient authors may be etymologically related to \"Bryges\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4488870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488870", "title": "Cultural invention", "text": "Cultural invention\n\nA cultural invention is any innovation developed by people that is not a material object. Cultural inventions include sets of behaviour adopted by groups of people. They are perpetuated by being passed on to others within the group or outside it. They are also passed on to future groups and generations. Sources of cultural invention can either come from outside a specific group or from within that group.\n\nAllan Hanson, a postmodern anthropologist, believed that the analytical purpose of studying cultural inventions was not to uncover which portions of a culture's belief systems are invented, but rather to study how cultural inventions become accepted as authentic within groups. This notion has been met with criticism from within the anthropological community as well as from outside sources, and has been referred to as both politically revisionist and anti-native. The fear is that viewing cultural invention as a process which leads to something authentic and widely accepted may undermine indigenous people's traditions in addition to questioning the authority they have over their own culture.\n\nExamples of areas where cultural inventions may take place include:\n\nOne way that cultural inventions can be spread is through cultural transmission. Cultural transmission refers to the means by which culturally specific ideas and patterns of behavior are shared so that they become cultural reality. According to Marc J. Swartz, people of status within society play an important role in deciding what is understood as cultural reality. Such people have the correct kinds of skills and knowledge within society to help transmit ideas in such a way that they are accepted by society at large, and this is one method by which cultural inventions can become cultural realities.\n\nAllan Hanson proposed that several aspects of Maori culture had been invented by European scholars who were accustomed to analytical frameworks focused on long-distance migration and diffusion. Because of this, he believed that European scholars constructed the notion that a \"Great Fleet\" headed by a man named Kupe from a neighboring island was responsible for the initial discovery and peopling of New Zealand. Although Maori ancestors most likely did arrive in canoes coming from nearby islands, Hanson believed that the account of the Great Fleet was created in order to simplify various Maori traditions into a single tradition. \n\nAdditionally, in order to make the Maori seem more elevated in European eyes, scholars may have invented a cult to a god named Io. Io was thought to be a supreme being that controlled all the other gods in the Maori pantheon. The story of Io creating the world is very similar to that of the Book of Genesis in the Bible, so similar that it is believed to be of European invention. Hanson asserted that these and other elements of Maori tradition were incorporated and taken to be true by the Maori, and that they have been passed down through generations by way of oral tradition. According to Hanson, \"Io and the Great Fleet have been incorporated into Maori lore and are passed down from elders to juniors in storytelling, oratory, and other Maori contexts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10202218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10202218", "title": "Dagaare language", "text": "Dagaare language\n\nDagaare is the maternal language of the Dagaaba people in Ghana and Burkina Faso. It has been described as a dialect continuum that also includes Waale and Birifor.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" divides Dagaare into three languages:\n\n"}
{"id": "18137793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18137793", "title": "Disease registry", "text": "Disease registry\n\nDisease or patient registries are collections of secondary data related to patients with a specific diagnosis, condition, or procedure, and they play an important role in post marketing surveillance of pharmaceuticals. Registries are different from indexes in that they contain more extensive data.\n\nIn its simplest form, a disease registry could consist of a collection of paper cards kept inside \"a shoe box\" by an individual physician. Most frequently registries vary in sophistication from simple spreadsheets that only can be accessed by a small group of physicians to very complex databases that are accessed online across multiple institutions.\n\nThey can provide health providers (or even patients) with reminders to check certain tests in order to reach certain quality goals.\n\nRegistries are less complex and simpler to set up than electronic medical records that according to a recent survey are only used by 9% of small offices where almost half of the US doctors work.\n\nAn electronic medical record keeps track of all the patients a doctor follows but a registry only keeps track of a small sub population of patients with a specific condition.\n\nMore than 130 million Americans live with chronic diseases and chronic diseases account for 70% of all deaths in the US. \"The medical care costs of people with chronic diseases account for more than 75% of the nation's $2 trillion medical care costs.\"\n\nRegistries target certain conditions because medical expenses are unevenly distributed: most health care expenses are spent treating patients with a few chronic conditions.\n\nFor example, the 2002 expenses with diabetes in the US was $132 billion, and this was around 12% of the US medical budget. Diabetes accounts for 25% of the Medicare budget.\nGiven this, diabetes is one of the conditions targeted by registries. Diabetes is also amenable to this because there is a target population that can be defined according to certain rules and there is evidence that certain tests like retina exams, LDL levels, HgbA1c levels can correlate with quality of care in diabetes.\n\nBecause of the diabetes impact, the New York City created a HbA1C Registry (NYCAR) to help health providers keep track of patients with diabetes.\n\nAnother example of disease registry is the New York State CABG Registry that tracks all cardiac bypass surgery performed in the state of New York \n\nOn a survey of 1040 US physician organizations published in Journal of the American Medical Association, diabetes registries are used by 40.3%, asthma registries are used by 31.2% of physician organizations, CHF registries are used by 34.8% and depression registries are used by 15.7%.\n\nOther tests like Pap smears are also useful to keep track in registries because there is evidence that when done annually in women of certain ages groups can detect and prevent cervical cancer.\n\nMany of measures tracked are based on evidence-based medicine and are defined and standardized by national organizations like the NCQA.\n\nPatient registries are particularly useful for evaluating the safety of orphan drug products as well as the safety of drugs in specific populations.\n\nCountries like Australia, Britain, Norway, Sweden, and America have national a joint replacement registry that track patients with artificial joints.\n\n\"The use of joint registries has proven beneficial abroad. In Australia, regulators use such data to force manufacturers to justify why poorly performing hips or knees should remain available, and products have been withdrawn as a result. In Sweden several years ago, surgeons alerted by their national registry stopped using a badly flawed hip long before their American counterparts did. A few medical organizations in the USA, like Kaiser Permanente, operate their own registries to good effect and the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York has recently set up a registry.\nExperts say that the United States wastes billions of dollars annually on medical treatments which may not work. But the financial and human consequences are also large when evidence exists but is not collected.\" \n\nSaudi Arabia will be a pioneer to come up with a comprehensive medical device registry(CIMDR), which will ultimately be a national database for most of the permanent implanted medical devices, which stays in the human body, it will be a National program covering all the hospitals doing implants(Cardio, Ortho, Craniofacial, Cosmetic , Spine & Simulators and other implants), The comprehensive database will be a multi-user/multi-institutional and will covering most of the implanted devices. Saudi Food and Drug Authority would hold the flagship for this national initiative. This registry would be one of the its kind in the world holding the data for all the medical devices registries in a single repository and would be a great tool not only for post market surveillance but calculating and deriving clinical outcomes.\n\nThe cost-effectiveness of a disease registry is related with the cost-effectiveness of prevention of specific medical conditions. Increasing compliance through a registry with preventive measures like children vaccination or colonoscopy screening can actually be a cost-saving measure. \"A mammogram every 2 years for women aged 50–69 costs only about $9,000 per year of life saved. This cost compares favorably with other widely used clinical preventive services.\"\n\nRegistries can be associated with pay-for-performance (P4P) quality based contracts for individual doctors, groups of doctors or even all doctors in a country. For example, the United Kingdom, rewards physicians according to 146 quality measures related with 10 chronic diseases that are tracked electronically.\n\nIn the United States, Medicare also started a 1.5% P4P contract based on health measures that can be tracked by disease registries.\n\nThe quality of a disease registry is based on the quality of data fed into it and all the processes involved in updating it and keeping its integrity. In every registry there is always a risk of \"garbage in, garbage out\". Issues that can affect a registry and its acceptance by a physician group:\n\n\nBelow is a growing list of patient registries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1198261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198261", "title": "Extracorporeal", "text": "Extracorporeal\n\nAn \"extracorporeal\" is a medical procedure which is performed outside the body.\n\nA procedure in which blood is taken from a patient's circulation to have a process applied to it before it is returned to the circulation. All of the apparatus carrying the blood outside the body is termed the extracorporeal circuit.\n\nExtracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL), which is unrelated to other extracorporeal therapies, in that the device used to break up the kidney stones is held completely outside the body, whilst the lithotripsy itself occurs inside the body.\n\nExtracorporeal radiotherapy, where a large bone with a tumour is removed and given a dose far exceeding what would otherwise be safe to give to a patient.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54291678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54291678", "title": "Filinto de Almeida", "text": "Filinto de Almeida\n\nFilinto de Almeida (1857-1945) was a dramatist, journalist, and poet who was born in Portugal, but who was taken to Brazil by relatives at the age of 10 where he lived the rest of his life, dying in Rio de Janeiro. He did not have a formal education, but began his career as a writer at the age of 19. In 1887, he married in Lisbon Júlia Lopes de Almeida, a novelist. After the establishment of the Brazilian Republic, he officially took Brazilian citizenship and became a politician. He was the editor of various journals. He wrote drama, poetry, and novels.\n\nA writer who experimented with various poetic genres, his first book of poetry, \"Lyrica\", is notable for the creation of a new verse form, the biolet, which has stimulated at least limited imitation in English.\n\n"}
{"id": "29181850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29181850", "title": "Flannagan mac Ceallach", "text": "Flannagan mac Ceallach\n\nFlannagan mac Ceallach, Irish poet, fl. 879.\n\nFlannagan appears to be known almost exclusively from three verses of a poem he composed upon the death of King Áed Findliath in 879. It is preserved in that year's entry in the Annals of the Four Masters:\n\n\nHe may, or may not, be identical with a namsake King of Brega who was killed at the battle of Oldba in 895.\n\n"}
{"id": "22577605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22577605", "title": "Flatness (manufacturing)", "text": "Flatness (manufacturing)\n\nIn manufacturing and mechanical engineering, flatness is an important geometric condition for workpieces and tools.\n\nIn the manufacture of precision parts and assemblies, especially where parts will be required to be connected across a surface area in an air-tight or liquid-tight manner, flatness is a critical quality of the manufactured surfaces. Such surfaces are usually machined or ground to achieve the required degree of flatness. High-definition metrology, such as digital holographic interferometry, of such a surface to confirm and ensure that the required degree of flatness has been achieved is a key step in such manufacturing processes. Flatness may be defined in terms of least squares fit to a plane (\"statistical flatness\"), worst-case or overall flatness (the distance between the two closest parallel planes within).\n\nTwo parts that are flat to about 1 helium light band (HLB) can be \"wrung\" together, which means they will cling to each other when placed in contact. This phenomenon is commonly used with gage blocks.\n\nGeometric dimensioning and tolerancing has provided geometrically defined, quantitative ways of defining flatness operationally. \n\nJoseph Whitworth popularized the first practical method of making accurate flat surfaces during the 1830s, using engineer's blue and scraping techniques on three trial surfaces. By testing all three in pairs against each other, it is ensured that the surfaces become flat. Using two surfaces would result in a concave surface and a convex surface. Eventually a point is reached when many points of contact are visible within each square inch, at which time the three surfaces are uniformly flat to a very close tolerance.\n\nUp until his introduction of the scraping technique, the same three plate method was employed using polishing techniques, giving less accurate results. This led to an explosion of development of precision instruments using these flat surface generation techniques as a basis for further construction of precise shapes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27202684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27202684", "title": "Francesco Antonio Santori", "text": "Francesco Antonio Santori\n\nFrancesco Antonio Santori (Arbërisht: Françesk Anton Santori or Ndon Santori; September 16, 1819 – September 7, 1894) was an Italian writer, poet and playwright of Arbëreshë descent. His play \"Emira\" is considered to be the first original Albanian drama ever written.\n\nSantori was born on September 16, 1819 in Santa Caterina Albanese, an Arbëreshë town in the province of Cosenza, modern southern Italy. In 1835 at the age of sixteen he decided to become a priest and started his training for priesthood. In 1843 he entered the Franciscan monastery of the Reformed Order in San Marco Argentano. In 1858 he unsuccessfully tried to found a monastery in Lattarico, and in 1860 he abandoned monastic life.\n\nHe continued living in Santa Caterina Albanese, where he worked as a teacher and a vendor of a spinning jenny he had constructed. In 1885 he was assigned as priest in San Giacomo di Cerzeto, a village of Cerzeto where he worked until his death on September 7, 1894.\n\nDuring his life Santori wrote poetry, novels, plays and short stories. He also adapted 112 of Aesop's Fables and wrote an Albanian grammar book. Santori wrote and finished his first poetry, titled \"Canzoniere Albanese\" () in the 1830s and published it in 1846. \"Canzoniere Albanese\" is a long lyric poem dedicated to love and nature. The poem was influenced by Girolamo de Rada's \"Song of Milosao\". In 1848 he composed a hymn in Albanian titled \"Valle haresë madhe\" (), published on February 23, 1848 in De Rada's journal \"L'Albanese d'Italia\" ().\n\nIn 1848 his bilingual political poem \"Il prigionero politico\" () written in Albanian and Italian was published in Naples. The poem recounts the changes of the life of a persecuted family during the revolutions of 1848 in the Italian states. During his years in the monastery of the Reformed Order in Cerzeto he wrote two religious works. The first work is a religious verse titled \"Rozhaari i S. Myriis Virgkiyry\" (, written in Albanian and published in 1849 in Cosenza. The second one is a 230-page collection of prayers, religious texts and translations of religious songs titled \"Kryshten i shyityruory\" () published in 1855 in Naples. \"The Sanctified Christian\" contains parts of Cuneus Prophetarum published in 1685 and written by Pjetër Bogdani, one of the most important writers of early Albanian literature. Santori included excerpts of \"Cuneus Prophetarum\" in his book to symbolize the continuity of Albanian religious literature.\n\nSantori wrote many plays, including melodramatic comedies and tragedies some of which remain incomplete. His plays include \"Jeroboam\", a tragedy of biblical content and \"Alessio Dukagino\" a melodrama written between 1855 and 1860, recounting the life of Lekë Dukagjini, an Albanian prince who fought against the Ottoman Empire. His best-known play, \"Emira\", titled after the name of its central figure, is considered to be the first original Albanian drama ever written. The drama recounts the adventures of Emira, Kalina, Albenci, and Mirjani during a social revolt in Calabria, and the life in the Arbëreshë communities. Some parts of the play were published originally in the journal \"Fjamuri Arbërit\" () and later in Jeronim de Rada's \"Albanian Anthology\". In modern years, 1,845 lines of satirical verse written by Santori have been found.\n\nMost of Santori's novels and short stories were published after his death in 1894. His novels include \"Sofia Kominiate\", an unfinished novel written in two versions. The first version contains 282 pages and is written in Albanian, while the second version, written in Italian, contains 714 pages. No copies have survived from his novel \"Bija e mallkuar\" () written in Albanian. He also wrote the novel \"Il soldato albanese\" () in Italian. Santori wrote many short stories known by the names of their central figures. His short stories written in Albanian include: \"Brisandi Lletixja e Ulladheni, Emilja, Fëmija Pushtjerote, Filaredo, Gnidhja e Kusari, Kolluqi e Sorofina, Miloshini, Neomenia, Panaini e Dellja, Rosarja\", and \"Virgjinia\".\n\nSantori's works are written in an archaic form of Tosk Albanian and are generally more accessible to the audience despite of his orthographic style. In his works he uses his own spelling system without any phonetic accuracy. Common themes in Santori's works include rural life, the period of the League of Lezhë of Albanian history and the customs of Arbëreshë communities. His political poems contain moralistic motifs describing the central ideas and feelings of the characters of each poem. In several of his poems like \"Dance of great joy\" Santori describes fokloric elements of Albanian culture like folk songs and dances.\n\n"}
{"id": "58884863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58884863", "title": "Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture", "text": "Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture\n\nIn mathematics, the Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture is a restriction problem in the representation theory of real or p-adic Lie groups posed by Wee Teck Gan, Benedict Gross, and Dipendra Prasad. The problem originated from a conjecture of Gross and Prasad for special orthogonal groups but was later generalized to include all four classical groups. In the cases considered, it is known that the multiplicity of the restrictions is at most one \nand the conjecture describes when the multiplicity is precisely one.\nA motivating example is the following classical branching problem in the theory of compact Lie groups. Let formula_1 be an irreducible finite dimensional representation of the compact unitary group formula_2, and consider its restriction to the naturally embedded subgroup formula_3. It is known that this restriction is multiplicity-free, but one may ask precisely which irreducible representations of formula_3 occur in the restriction.\n\nBy the Cartan–Weyl theory of highest weights, there is a classification of the irreducible representations of formula_2 via their highest weights which are in natural bijection with sequences of integers formula_6.\nNow suppose that formula_1 has highest weight formula_8. Then an irreducible representation formula_9 of formula_3 with highest weight formula_11 occurs in the restriction of formula_1 to formula_3 (viewed as a subgroup of formula_2) if and only if formula_15 and formula_16 are interlacing, i.e. formula_17.\n\nThe Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture then considers the analogous restriction problem for other classical groups.\n\nThe conjecture has slightly different forms for the different classical groups. The formulation for general unitary groups is as follows.\n\nLet formula_18 be a finite-dimensional vector space over a field formula_19 not of characteristic formula_20 equipped with a non-degenerate sesquilinear form that is formula_21-symmetric (i.e. formula_22 if the form is symmetric and formula_23 if the form is skew-symmetric. Let formula_24 be a non-degenerate subspace of formula_18 such that formula_26 of dimension formula_27. Then let formula_28, where formula_29 is the unitary group preserving the form on formula_18, and let formula_31 be the diagonal subgroup of formula_32.\n\nLet formula_33 be an irreducible smooth representation of formula_34 and let formula_35 be either the trivial representation (the \"Bessel case\") or the Weil representation (the \"Fourier–Jacobi case\").\nLet formula_36 be a generic L-parameter for formula_28, and let formula_38 be the associated Vogan L-packet.\n\nIf formula_39 is a local L-parameter for formula_34, then\n\nLetting formula_42 be the \"distinguished character\" defined in terms of the Langlands–Deligne local constant, then furthermore\n\nFor a quadratic field extension formula_44, let formula_45 where formula_46 is the global L-function obtained as the product of local L-factors given by the local Langlands conjectures.\nThe following are equivalent:\n\nIn a series of four papers between 2010 and 2012, Jean-Loup Waldspurger proved the local Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture for tempered representations of orthogonal groups over p-adic fields. In 2012, Colette Moeglin and Waldspurger then proved the local Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture for generic non-tempered representations of orthogonal groups over p-adic fields.\n\nIn his 2013 thesis, Raphaël Beuzart-Plessis proved the local Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture for the tempered representations of unitary groups in the p-adic Hermitian case under the same hypotheses needed to establish the local Langlands conjecture.\n\nIn a series of papers between 2004 and 2009, David Ginzburg, Dihua Jiang, and Stephen Rallis showed the (1) implies (2) direction of the global Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture.\n\nIn the Bessel case of the global Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture, Wei Zhang used the theory of the relative trace formula by Hervé Jacquet and the work on the fundamental lemma by Zhiwei Yun to prove that the conjecture is true subject to certain local conditions in 2014.\n\nIn the Fourier–Jacobi case of the global Gan–Gross–Prasad conjecture, Yifeng Liu and Hang Xue showed that the conjecture holds in the skew-Hermitian case subject to certain local conditions.\n"}
{"id": "7375594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7375594", "title": "Glossary of woodworking", "text": "Glossary of woodworking\n\nThis glossary of woodworking lists a number of specialized terms and concepts used in woodworking, carpentry, and related disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2050795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2050795", "title": "Huon Gulf languages", "text": "Huon Gulf languages\n\nThe thirty Huon Gulf languages of Papua New Guinea may form a group of the North New Guinea languages, perhaps within the Ngero–Vitiaz branch of that family.\n\nAccording to Lynch, Ross, & Crowley (2002), the structure of the family is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31331691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31331691", "title": "Ifè language", "text": "Ifè language\n\nIfè (or Ifɛ) is a Niger–Congo language spoken by some 180,000 people in Togo and Benin. It is also known as Ana, Ana-Ifé, Anago, Baate and Ede Ife. It has a lexical similarity of 87%–91% with Ede Nago.\n\nWritten works began to be produced in the language in the 1980s, published by the Comité Provisoire de Langue Ifɛ̀ and SIL. An Ifè–French dictionary (\"Oŋù-afɔ ŋa nfɛ̀ òŋu òkpi-ŋà ŋa nfãrãsé\"), edited by Mary Gardner and Elizabeth Graveling, was produced in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "3684463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3684463", "title": "Juba Arabic", "text": "Juba Arabic\n\nJuba Arabic (), also known since 2011 as South Sudanese Arabic, is a lingua franca spoken mainly in Equatoria Province in South Sudan, and derives its name from the town of Juba, South Sudan. It is also spoken among communities of people from South Sudan living in towns in Sudan. The pidgin developed in the 19th century, among descendants of Sudanese soldiers, many of whom were recruited from southern Sudan. Residents of other large towns in South Sudan, notably Malakal and Wau, do not generally speak Juba Arabic, tending towards the use of Arabic closer to Sudanese Arabic, in addition to local languages.\n\nJuba derives from a pidgin based on Sudanese Arabic. It has a vastly simplified grammar as well as the influence of local languages from the south of the country. DeCamp, writing in the mid-1970s, classifies Juba Arabic as a pidgin rather than a creole language (meaning that it is not passed on by parents to their children as a first language), though Mahmud, writing slightly later, appears to equivocate on this issue (see references below). Mahmoud's work is politically significant as it represented the first recognition by a northern Sudanese intellectual that Juba Arabic was not merely \"Arabic spoken badly\" but is a distinct dialect.\n\nBecause of the civil war in southern Sudan from 1983, more recent research on this issue has been restricted. However, the growth in the size of Juba town since the beginning of the civil war, its relative isolation from much of its hinterland during this time, together with the relative collapse of state run education systems in the government held garrison town (that would have further encouraged the use of Arabic as opposed to Juba Arabic), may have changed patterns of usage and transmission of Juba Arabic since the time of the last available research. Further research is required to determine the extent to which Juba Arabic may now be considered a creole rather than a pidgin language. The newly independent government of South Sudan has selected English as the new official language of government in South Sudan in preference to Arabic and local languages such as Juba Arabic, Dinka, Nuer, Shilluk etc.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35132785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35132785", "title": "Kein language", "text": "Kein language\n\nKein, also known as Bemal, is a Papuan language of Papua New Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "35847458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35847458", "title": "Kugbo language", "text": "Kugbo language\n\nKugbo is a Central Delta language of Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "55086852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55086852", "title": "Landsforrådt", "text": "Landsforrådt\n\nLandsforrådt as an adverb in the Norwegian language: \n\n\"Landsforrådt\" is a relatively new term in the Norwegian language. It means \"to be betrayed by your country of origin.\" Examples of \"landsforrådt\" are: \n\nOne or more of these criteria qualifies as a violation of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n"}
{"id": "2544279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544279", "title": "Liza Marklund", "text": "Liza Marklund\n\nEva Elisabeth \"Liza\" Marklund (born 9 September 1962) is a Swedish journalist and crime writer.\n\nHer novels, most of which feature the fictional character Annika Bengtzon, a newspaper journalist, have been published in thirty languages. Marklund is the co-owner of Sweden's third largest publishing house, Piratförlaget and a columnist in the Swedish tabloid \"Expressen\". She is also a Unicef ambassador.\nShe was born in Pålmark near Piteå, Norrbotten.\nMarklund lives in Spain with her husband Mikael.\nSince her debut in 1995, Liza Marklund has written eight crime novels and co-authored two documentary novels with Maria Eriksson and one non-fiction book about female leadership with Lotta Snickare. Marklund's crime novels featuring crime reporter Annika Bengtzon have become international bestsellers. She won the \"Poloni Prize\" (Polonipriset) 1998 for \"Best Swedish Crime Novel by a Female Writer\" and \"The Debutant Prize\", (Debutantpriset) 1998 for \"Best First Novel of the Year\" with the crime novel \"Sprängaren\" (\"The Bomber\"), published in 1998. Marklund was named Author of the Year in Sweden 1999 by the Swedish trade union SKTF, won the radio network RixFM's Swedish Literary Prize in 2007, and was selected the fifteenth most popular woman in Sweden of 2003 and the fourth most popular woman in Sweden of 2004 in a yearly survey with 1,000 participants, conducted by ICA-kuriren, a publication published by a Swedish supermarket chain.\n\nHer books have been number one bestsellers in all five Nordic countries. In 2002 and 2003, two of Liza Marklund's crime novels were listed on the international bestseller lists by the online magazine \"Publishing Trends\", \"Prime Time\" ranking #13 and \"The Red Wolf\" ranking #12. In Scandinavia and Germany, her non-fiction novels have become the center of a heated controversy.\n\n\"The Postcard Killers\", a crime thriller written in collaboration with American bestselling author James Patterson, is Marklund's twelfth book.\nIt was published on January 27, 2010, in Sweden, and became number one on the Swedish bestseller list in February 2010.\nIt was published on 16 August 2010 in the United States.\nAt the end of August, it reached number one in the \"New York Times\" best-seller list, making Liza Marklund the second Swedish author (the first one being Stieg Larsson with the Millennium Trilogy) ever to reach the number one spot.\n\n\"Gömda\" (\"Buried Alive\") is the 1995 literary debut of Swedish author Liza Marklund. It is the first novel in the Maria Eriksson series. The novel is based on a true story and deals with a woman who is abused by her boyfriend and forced into hiding.\n\nSwedish journalist Monica Antonsson released a book in 2008 criticising the factual background of \"Buried Alive\" leading to a public debate about the book and the public libraries of Sweden reclassifying all editions from non-fiction to fiction.\n\n\nThe Annika Bengtzon series consists of eleven books. The framework of the Annika Bengtzon series is crime reporter Annika's hectic life, at a bustling tabloid called \"Kvällspressen\" in Stockholm, Sweden. Her conflict lies in combining motherhood with her career ambitions. Prior to \"The Bomber\", there were very few female commercially successful crime writers in Sweden. Marklund placed 22nd on the list of the most influential media personality of 2008 in Sweden, a list established yearly by the trade magazine for the advertising industry, \"Resumé\".\n\n\nTwo films based on Annika Bengtzon novels, \"The Bomber\" and \"Paradise\", have been filmed in Swedish by the English director Colin Nutley. The actress Helena Bergström starred in the role as Annika Bengtzon in both movies. They premiered in 2001 and 2003. In 2009, the film and TV production company Yellow Bird bought the rights to adapt an additional six Annika Bengtzon novels for the screen: \"Studio 69\", \"Prime Time\", \"The Red Wolf\", \"Nobel's Last Will\", \"Lifetime\", and \"A Place in the Sun\". In these six films Annika Bengtzon is played by Swedish actress Malin Crépin.\n\nThe films were released as follows:\n\n\nIn 2004 Liza Marklund was appointed ambassador for the United Nations Children's Fund, UNICEF. The reason was her long interest in issues related to human rights. She travels regularly on behalf of the UNICEF and has, among other things, especially covered questions related to child slavery and children with HIV and Aids in the third world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22977533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22977533", "title": "Manolis Triantafyllidis", "text": "Manolis Triantafyllidis\n\nManolis A. Triantafyllidis (; Athens, 15 November 1883 – Athens, 20 April 1959) was a major representative of the demotic movement in education in Greece. He was mostly active in Thessaloniki, at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. He is well known for his comprehensive grammar of Modern Greek. There is an institute named after him at the University of Thessaloniki (the Manolis Triantafyllidis Foundation, also known as the Institute of Modern Greek Studies), under whose auspices the \"Triantafyllidis Dictionary\" (formally, \"Dictionary of Common Modern Greek\" [Λεξικό της κοινής νεοελληνικής], 1998) was published.\n\n"}
{"id": "37982762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37982762", "title": "Matsuyama Declaration", "text": "Matsuyama Declaration\n\nThe Matsuyama Declarationwas announced in September 1999, reviewing the prospect of world haiku in the 21st century, and the shape that the haiku must then take. The declaration was first drafted by the Coordination Council of Matsuyama (headed by Gania Nishimura) in Matsuyama, Ehime on July 18, 1999. The declaration was officially announced at the Shimanami Kaido 99 International Haiku Convention on September 12, 1999. The proceeding of the convention was covered live on the internet to the entire world by the Shiki team in the Matsuyama Information Handling Chamber, and was also broadcast on BS Forum “Declaration of Haiku Innovation” on October 2, 1999.\n\nThe Matsuyama Declaration consists of the following 7 parts:\n\nThe Matsuyama Declaration was made by the following people:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34208777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34208777", "title": "Minriq language", "text": "Minriq language\n\nMenriq, Mendriq or Minriq is an aboriginal Mon–Khmer language of Malaysia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15685612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15685612", "title": "Morphological pattern", "text": "Morphological pattern\n\nA morphological pattern is a set of associations and/or operations that build the various forms of a lexeme, possibly by inflection, agglutination, compounding or derivation.\n\nThe term is used in the domain of lexicons and morphology.\n\nIt is important to distinguish the paradigm of a lexeme from a morphological pattern. In the context of an inflecting language, an inflectional morphological pattern is not the explicit list of inflected forms. A morphological pattern usually references a prototypical class of inflectional forms, e.g. \"ring\" as per \"sing\". In contrast, the paradigm of a lexeme is the explicit list of the inflected forms of the given lexeme (e.g. \"to ring\", \"rang\", \"rung\"). Said in other terms, this is the difference between a description in intension (a morphological pattern) and a description in extension (a paradigm).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35644619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35644619", "title": "Otfrid von Hanstein", "text": "Otfrid von Hanstein\n\nOtfrid von Hanstein (1869–1959) was a German actor and writer. As a novelist, he was prolific in various genres; his best-known works in English-language translation are science fiction novels published in various magazines by Hugo Gernsback. John Clute describes von Hanstein's science fiction as \"technophilic and space-oriented, crude but competent\". E. F. Bleiler reports that his SF novels were suppressed by the Nazi government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1683952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683952", "title": "Paleo-Balkan languages", "text": "Paleo-Balkan languages\n\nThe Paleo-Balkan languages are the various extinct Indo-European languages that were spoken in the Balkans in ancient times. Hellenization, Romanization and Slavicization in the region caused their only modern descendants to be Modern Greek and Albanian, which are descended from Ancient Greek and one of the Thraco-Illyrian languages, respectively.\n\nAncient Greek and Roman writers report that the following languages were spoken on the Balkan Peninsula, besides Greek:\n\nAlthough these languages are all members of the Indo-European language family, the relationships between them are unknown. Classification of the languages spoken in the region is severely hampered because they are all scantily attested. Furthermore, many of the individuals who have published studies on these languages have had strong patriotic or nationalistic interests, which may compromise the scholarly value of their work.\n\nIllyrian is a group of reputedly Indo-European languages whose relationship to other Indo-European languages as well as to the languages of the Paleo-Balkan group, many of which might be offshoots of Illyrian, is poorly understood due to the paucity of data and is still being examined. The Illyrian languages are often considered to be centum dialects, but this is not confirmed as there are hints of satemization. Today, the main source of authoritative information about the Illyrian language consists of a handful of Illyrian words cited in classical sources, and numerous examples of Illyrian anthroponyms, ethnonyms, toponyms and hydronyms.\n\nA grouping of Illyrian with Messapian has been proposed for about a century, but remains an unproven hypothesis. The theory is based on classical sources, archaeology, as well as onomastic considerations. Messapian material culture bears a number of similarities to Illyrian material culture. Some Messapian anthroponyms have close Illyrian equivalents.\n\nA grouping of Illyrian with Venetic and Liburnian, once spoken in northeastern Italy and Liburnia respectively, is also proposed. The consensus now is that Illyrian was quite distinct from Venetic and Liburnian, but a close linguistic relation has not been ruled out and is still being investigated.\n\nAnother hypothesis would group Illyrian with Dacian and Thracian into a Thraco-Illyrian branch, and a competing hypothesis would exclude Illyrian from a Daco-Thracian grouping in favor of Mysian. The classification of Thracian itself is a matter of contention and uncertainty.\n\nThe place of Paeonian remains unclear. Not much has been determined in the study of Paeonian, and some linguists do not recognize a Paeonian area separate from Illyrian or Thracian. The classification of Ancient Macedonian and its relationship to Greek are also under investigation, with solid sources pointing that Ancient Macedonian is in fact a variation of Doric Greek, but also the possibility of being only related through the local sprachbund.\n\nPhrygian, on the other hand, is considered to have been most likely closely related to Greek.\n\nThe Albanian language is considered by current linguistic consensus to have developed from one of the non-Greek, ancient Indo-European languages of the region. Some historians believe it is derived from ancient Illyrian, while others hold that it has its roots in the ancient Thracian tongue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40979852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40979852", "title": "Relativizer", "text": "Relativizer\n\nIn linguistics, a relativizer (abbreviated ) is a type of conjunction that introduces a relative clause. For example, in English, the conjunction \"that\" may be considered a relativizer in a sentence such as \"I have one that you can use.\" Relativizers do not appear, at least overtly, in all languages; even in languages that do have overt or pronounced relativizers, they do not necessarily appear all of the time. For these reasons it has been suggested that in some cases, a \"zero relativizer\" may be present, meaning that a relativizer is implied in the grammar but is not actually realized in speech or writing. For example, the word \"that\" can be omitted in the above English example, producing \"I have one you can use\", using (on this analysis) a zero relativizer.\n\nSince as far back as 1712, people have written about relativizers and what functions they have. They have been classified as conjunctions in earlier times, and have later been referred to as clause markers. They are known today as relativizers. Despite an agreement in nomenclature, there are multiple analyses which attempt to account for the grammatical function and distribution of relativizers.\n\nThe promotional analysis is a transformational analysis from 1973 depicting relative clauses in English, and how relative pronouns are introduced into the embedded clause. This analysis assumes that there is no overt head noun in the deep structure of the main clause. In order to form a relative construction, the noun phrase from the embedded clause is promoted to the empty head of the noun phrase of the main clause. From there, a corresponding relative pronoun leaves a trace in the space of the vacated noun phrase in the embedded clause. For example:\nThe Matching Analysis is another type of transformational analysis from the 1970s, which was in competition with the Promotional Analysis at that time. In this analysis the relative pronoun is introduced into the embedded clause by corresponding or matching to the head noun in the main clause. This is done by taking the noun phrase from the embedded sentence in the deep structure that matches the head noun in the noun phrase of the main clause, and replacing it with a relative pronoun. The relative pronoun thus co-references the head noun in the main clause. Finally, the relative pronoun is moved to the clause-initial position. For example:\n\nThere are two separate phrasal heads that relativizers can occupy. Cross-linguistically, relativizers may occupy either the head of a complementizer phrase (C-Type Relativizer) or the head of a determiner phrase (D-Type Relativizer). C-Type Relativizers can introduce a relative clause as an argument of a noun phrase, or they can introduce a relative clause as an argument of a verb phrase. D-Type Relativizers may only introduce a relative clause as an argument of a noun phrase. English is a language which uses a C-Type Relativizer, that, as a part of its relativization strategy because \"that\" can introduce a relative clause as either the argument to a Noun Phrase or the argument to a Complementizer Phrase. The following examples from English shows the same morpheme being used in both syntactic contexts.\nConversely, Arabic uses two phonologically distinct morphemes to account for these syntactic phenomena. In the same sentences in a D-Type language like Arabic, each example would employ the use of a different morpheme as shown in examples 1 & 2.\n\nThere are three types of relativizers used in English to introduce relative clauses: zero or null relativizers, \"wh\"-relativizers, and the \"that\"-relativizer.\n\nRelativizers have been analyzed to be optional in certain languages and are variably omitted in the English language. Such relativizer omission, or use of the null or zero variant of relativizers, does not pattern uniformly in English and has been predicted to be conditioned and constrained by a number of linguistic and social factors. These social factors and the potential influence of age, gender, and education have been minimally explored and seem to exhibit a lesser effect on relativizer omission. Linguistic constraints, such as sentence structure and syntactic position of the relativizer, main clause construction type, lexical specificity of the head NP, type of antecedent, and the adjacency, length, and grammatical subject of the relative clause have been implicated as having more significant influence on the patterning of relativizer omission in Canadian English. The omission of relativizers tends to occur more frequently in conversation than in formal writing.\n\nThe syntactic position or function of the relativizer in the relative clause is a major determiner for the choice of relative marker. The null relativizer variant is more common in object than subject relative clauses.\n\nThere is a preference for null relativizers when a main clause that is informationally light is directly \"adjacent\" to the relative clause. For example:\nIn this example, the main clause 'it's just kinda something' provides little semantic information and it is adjacent to the relative clause 'I noticed recently'. As such, it is thought that the main clause and the relative clause are processed together as a unitary processing chunk that is functioning like a single statement, which results in a null relativizer.\n\nEmpty head noun phrases, which are not lexically specific and which index generic groups or sets, have been correlated with the use of the null relativizer. Examples of empty noun phrases include words like \"all\", \"way\", \"time\", etc.\n\nUnique head noun phrases, which include superlatives and nouns with the words \"only\" and \"first\", also take the null relativizer. For example:\n\nLonger head noun phrases often co-occur with an overt relativizer, whereas shorter noun phrases are more likely to co-occur with a null relativizer. For example:\nIn these examples, the first sentence contains a longer noun phrase ('This pair of suede pants') in comparison to the second sentence, which contains a very short noun phrase ('The weight'). Thus, it is observed that the sentence containing the longer noun phrase also contains the relativizer 'that', whereas the sentence with the shorter noun phrase has a null relativizer.\n\nNull relativizers have been found to be correlated to the definiteness of the nominal antecedent. For example:\nThe first sentence contains a definite noun phrase, whereas the second sentence contains an indefinite noun phrase which co-occurs with the null relativizer.\n\nWhen the grammatical subject of a relative clause is a pronoun, it is more likely that the relativizer will be omitted. When the subject of a relative clause is a full noun phrase, the overt relativizer will be retained. For example:\n\nThe overt relativizers of Modern English include the words “which”, “what”, “when”, “where”, “who”, “whom” and “whose”, and these can be referred to within linguistics as \"\"wh\"-words\". These are officially classified as relative pronouns, but can be referred to as “\"wh\"-relativizers” in instances where their function is to introduce a relative clause.\nThe other overt relativizer of Modern English is the word “that”, which can be referred to as the “\"that\"-relativizer” where it introduces a relative clause. There is some debate as to whether to classify it as a relative pronoun - like the wh-words, a subordinating conjunction, or a complementizer. The distribution of the different types of English relativizers varies depending on several factors.\n\nFused relative clauses, sometimes referred to as “free” relative clauses, are different from most other types of relative clauses in that there is no nominal antecedent to which the relative clause refers. In many cases, the relativizers of English are relative pronouns, meaning that they are in coreference with a noun that precedes them in the sentence. This nominal function is “fused” with the relative clause in free relatives, and this leaves the relativizer without an overt entity to which it can refer. For example:\nThere is no noun preceding the relative clause in these cases, and that is why it is said that this noun’s function is “fused” with the relative clause.\n\nWhere there are different grammatical case forms of a relativizer, the case form that surfaces will depend on the grammatical function of the noun that appears previously in the sentence to which the relative clause refers, known as the nominal antecedent. The only examples in Modern English of this phenomenon are the forms “who” and “whom”. “Who” surfaces when it refers to a noun that is the subject of the main clause, and “whom” surfaces when it refers to a noun that is an object of the main clause. However, speaker judgments vary as to whether it is grammatical for \"who\" to surface when it is referring to an object of the main clause. Since, depending on speaker judgments, either only \"whom\" or both \"who and \"whom\" can grammatically introduce a relative clause referring to an object, there is an \"m\" in brackets on the end of the relativizer in example (21) below.\n 24) \"The person who visited Kim\"\n 25) \"The chairman listened to the student who(m) the professor gave a low grade to\"\n\nOnly certain relativizers can introduce clauses that refer to human antecedents, and similarly, only certain relativizers can introduce clauses that refer to non-human antecedents. “Who”, “whom”, and “whose” can only refer to human antecedents, “which”, and “what” can only refer to non-human antecedents. “That”, however, can refer to both human and non-human antecedents. To exemplify: \n 26) \"The Pat that I like is a genius\"\n 29) \"Every essay that she's written which I've read is on that pile\"\n\nRestrictive relative clauses add extraneous information that is not vital for the listener or reader’s understanding of which aforementioned noun is being referenced; or in other words, which noun is the nominal antecedent. Both \"wh\"-relativizers and the \"that\"-relativizer can be used to introduce restrictive relative clauses. Nonrestrictive relative clauses have semantic properties which make them necessary to prevent the sentence from being ambiguous. They are used in cases where the context that surrounds the sentence is not sufficient for the distinction between the potential nominal antecedents. Commas mark nonrestrictive relative clauses, and only the \"wh\"-relativizers can be used to introduce them. To exemplify:\n 31) \"He has four sons that became lawyers \"\n 33) \"He has four sons, who became lawyers\"\n\nIn non-finite clauses (clauses in which the verb is left unconjugated), the relativizer appears as an object of preposition, or in other words, directly after a preposition in the sentence. These relative clauses appear to be introduced by the preposition itself, but they are actually introduced by both the preposition and the relativizer, since these two grammatical particles form a “prepositional phrase”; and it is this phrase that introduces the clause. For example:\nNote that (37) is ungrammatical because the relativizer introduces a non-finite relative clause, but it is not contained within a propositional phrase.\n\nTeochew is a Chinese language originating from the Chaoshan region of the eastern Guangdong province. Indonesian Teochew refers to the Teochew dialect spoken in Indonesia. The most common way to form relative clauses in Indonesian Teochew is to use the relativizer \"kai\". These relative clauses can appear head-finally or head-initially.\n\nJambi Teochew is a variety of Indonesian Teochew that is spoken in the province of Jambi on the island of Sumatra. In this language, the relativizer \"kai\" is used to form relative clauses. In these relative clauses, the \"kai\" is obligatory. This relativizer comes from the Chinese language. The relativizer \"yang\" is optional, and is borrowed from Malaysian. The relativizer \"kai\" must always follow the modifying clause. If the optional relativizer \"yang\" is used, it would precede the modifying clause, as shown by example #43. If the relativizer \"kai\" is not present, the sentence becomes ungrammatical, regardless of whether \"yang\" is present or not. This is demonstrated in example #45.\n\nAnother way of forming relative clauses in Jambi Teochew is through using the classifier. The main difference between the \"kai\" and classifier relative clause is that there is the presence of a classifier in the classifier relative clause. The classifier in classifier relative clauses can only appear head-initially. The classifier agrees with the head noun type and is in the place of the relativizer \"kai\".\n\nHeadless relative clauses do not have a pronounced head. It is the equivalent of “the one” in English. Headless relative clauses are formed with the relativizer \"kai\". The Malaysian relativizer \"yang\" can be used optionally before the modifying clause.\n\nThe relativizer \"kai\" is obligatory. In addition, it is not possible to form a headless relative clause with a classifier in the place of the relativizer \"kai\".\n\nPontianak Teochew is a variety of Indonesian Teochew that is spoken in the capital city of Pontianak in the province of West Kalimantan. The relativizer \"kai\" is used to form relative clauses. It is obligatory in head-final relative clauses. If \"kai\" is not present in the sentence, the sentence becomes ungrammatical, as demonstrated by example #52. Pontianak Teochew does not allow the use of the Malaysian relativizer \"yang\". When this relativizer is present, the sentence becomes ungrammatical. This is shown in example #53.\n\nUte is a language that belongs to the Northern Division of the Uto-Aztecan language family that spans the distance from the Rocky Mountains to Popocatepetl volcano south of Mexico City.\n\nIn Ute, relative clauses that modify the subject are introduced in a different manner than those that modify the object. In both cases, there is no overt relativizer morpheme, rather nominalization and case morphology are used to introduce relative clauses.\n\nFor example, nominalizing suffixes are attached to verbal elements in subject relative clauses.\n\nIn relative clauses that are introduced as arguments to an object, the verbal elements are inflected with nominalizing morphology similar to that of their subject relative clause counterparts and the subject of the embedded clause is inflected with the genitive case.\n\n"}
{"id": "33416911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416911", "title": "Resígaro language", "text": "Resígaro language\n\nResígaro is an Arawakan language of Peru believed to be nearly extinct as of 2017 with only one remaining speaker.\n\nAikhenvald (1999) classifies it among the Western Nawiki Upper Amazonian languages. Kaufman (1994) had made it a separate branch of Upper Amazonian.\n\nOn November 25, 2016 the last female speaker of Resígaro, Rosa Andrade was brutally murdered in a beheading at the age of 67. Her niece reported “She was beheaded. Her head was not found, neither her heart.”\n\nThe only other remaining speaker known was Andrade's brother, Pablo Andrade, who still lives. He and his late sister had been preparing a project with the Ministry of Culture to document their language since October 2016, and to update books on grammar and an outdated dictionary made in the 1950s by the Summer Institute of Language, that promoted the translation of the Bible.\n"}
{"id": "50866270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50866270", "title": "Salvador Bucca", "text": "Salvador Bucca\n\nSalvador Bucca was professor of linguistics at the University of Buenos Aires. He was a Guggenheim fellow in 1958. He was a specialist in the Kitsai language and the indigenous languages of Argentina. His papers and recordings relating to his work are stored in the Archive of the Indigenous Languages of Latin America at the University of Texas at Austin. He donated materials on Chorote, Irish and Thai to the Laboratory of Documentation and Investigation of Linguistics and Anthropology in Buenos Aires.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3820842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3820842", "title": "Society of Graphic Designers of Canada", "text": "Society of Graphic Designers of Canada\n\nThe Society of Graphic Designers of Canada (GDC®) is Canadaʼs national certification body for graphic and communication design and since 1956 has established standards for design professionals, educators, and leaders. Through our certification program, GDC licenses the unique CGD™ certification mark to members whose services meet rigorous, standardized criteria. The CGD™ certification mark is recognized across Canada as the mark of professional services and ethical business conduct.\n\nGDC is a member-based organization of design professionals, educators, administrators, students, and affiliates in communications, marketing, media and design-related fields. Our members come together via nine chapters across Canada to advocate for the advancement of the design profession.\n\nGDC was Canada’s first distinct group to professionalize graphic design as a distinct field.\n\nIn 1956 a visionary group of designers [Frank Davies, John Gibson, Frank Newfeld, and Leslie (Sam) Smart] met in Toronto to form the Society of Typographic Designers of Canada (TDC).\n\nDue to the rapid evolution of the profession, in 1968 the organization changed its name to the Society of Graphic Designers of Canada (GDC). Thanks to the efforts of a number of dedicated designers and design educators, negotiations between members of the original society, the federal government, and designers from every region of the country culminated in the granting of a Federal Charter in 1976, unifying the country under one national association.\n\nIn 1996 GDC’s five Ontario Chapters amalgamated to form the Association of Registered Graphic Designers of Ontario and received provincial legislation granting them authority to use the title of Registered Graphic Designer and the R.G.D. designation within the province of Ontario.\n\nGDC celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2006 with a commemorative stamp from Canada Post.\n\nToday GDC has chapters throughout Canada and proudly boasts representation in every province and territory as well as many international members.\n\nGDC is well-respected internationally. Our organization is a member of the International Council of Design (ico-D), the worldwide non-governmental body representing graphic and communication designers. This allows our members to attain international recognition, professional development, and a global perspective on graphic design. GDC is one of the ten largest association members in ico-D and has been a member since 1974.\n\nGDC is also allied with the Societe des Designers Graphiques du Quebec (SDGQ), representing graphic designers in Quebec, the University and College Designers Association (UCDA), the Canadian Association of Professional Image Creators (CAPIC)and the Australian Graphic Design Association (AGDA).\n\nIn September 2010 the GDC adopted membership changes to replace the MGDC and LGDC certifications with a new CGD™ certification in order to reduce confusion over the meaning of the MGDC designation.\n\nThe GDC has been an advocate and resource for Canada's graphic and communication design profession since 1956. The GDC maintains a national certified body of graphic and communication designers and promotes high standards of graphic design and ethical business practices for the benefit of Canadian industry, commerce, public service and education.\n\nThrough the media, publications, seminars, events, conferences and exhibits, the GDC builds awareness of graphic and communication design and its essential role in business and society.\n\nSince 1960, the GDC has been recognizing as Fellows those designers who make major contributions to Canadian graphic design. Designers who have received the honour include Allan Fleming (1960), Burton Kramer (1975), Chris Yaneff (1983), Paul Arthur (1996), Jim Rimmer (2007), and Mark Busse (2014).\n\nAs of July 2014, GDC consists of nine chapters across Canada, facilitating a national, ongoing exchange of ideas and information for designers and students:\n\n\nGDC is a professional member of ico-D (International Council of Communication Design), the worldwide non-governmental body representing the graphic design profession. This provides GDC members with the opportunity for international recognition, professional development, and a global perspective on graphic design.\n\nThe \"Société des designers graphiques du Québec\" (SDGQ), representing graphic designers in the province of Quebec, has a formal relationship with the GDC.\n\nThrough our certification program GDC licenses the unique CGD™ certification mark to members whose services meet rigorous, standardized criteria. The CGD™ certification mark is recognized across Canada as the mark of professional services and ethical business conduct. Current certification requirements and guidelines can be found at gdc.design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279855", "title": "South African Sign Language", "text": "South African Sign Language\n\nSouth African Sign Language (SASL) is the primary sign language spoken by Deaf in South Africa. It is an official language of South Africa. The South African government added a National Language Unit for South African Sign Language in 2001. SASL is not the only manual language spoken in South Africa, but it is the language that is being promoted as the language to be used by all Deaf in South Africa, although Deaf peoples in South Africa historically do not form a single group.\n\nIn 1995, the previous South African National Council for the Deaf (SANCD) was transformed into the Deaf Federation of South Africa (DeafSA), which resulted in a radical policy change in matters for deaf people in South Africa, such as the development and adoption of a single sign language and the promotion of sign language over oralism. Schools for the deaf have remained largely untransformed, however, and different schools for deaf children in South African still use different sign language systems, and at a number of schools for the deaf the use of any sign language is either discouraged or simply not taught. There are as many as twelve distinctly different dialects of sign language in South Africa.\n\nIn addition to South African sign languages, American Sign Language (ASL) is also used by some Deaf people in South Africa. Most local sign languages in South Africa show the influence of American sign language.\n\nSASL is the sign language that is used during television news casts in South Africa. Sign language is also used in the South African parliament, but different sign language interpreters are known to use different signs for the same concepts. There are around 40 schools for the Deaf in South Africa, most using a variety of SASL.\n\nSign language is explicitly mentioned in the South African constitution, and the South African Schools Act permits the study of the language in lieu of another official language at school.\n\nBy 2011, there were 84 SASL interpreters on DeafSA's interpreter register, including 43 without any training, 31 who have completed 240 study hours of interpreter training, and 10 who have gained an additional 3 years' experience and completed a further 480 study hours. A total of 7 SASL interpreters have actually been accredited by SATI/DeafSA. SASL interpreters can apply for accreditation without having completed any formal training in SASL.\n\nSouth African Sign Language is not entirely uniform and continues to evolve. Due to the geographical spread of its users and past educational policies, there are localised dialects of South African Sign Language and signs with many variants. Earlier efforts to create reference material and standardise the language, such as books (1980 \"Talking to the Deaf\", 1994 \"Dictionary of SASL\"), can only be used as historical records of the language. Daily TV broadcasts in sign language give today's South African Sign Language its national cohesion and unity.\n\nSign language is mentioned in four South African laws, namely the Constitution, the Use of Official Languages Act, the South African Schools Act, and the Pan South African Language Board Act.\n\nThe Constitution states that a board named the Pan South African Language Board should be established to \"promote, and create conditions for, the development and use of ... sign language\". In terms of the law that establishes the Pan South African Language Board (Act 59 of 1995), the board may establish language bodies to advise it on \"any particular language, sign language or augmentative and alternative communication\".\n\nIn terms of the Use of Official Languages Act, Act No. 12 of 2012, all government departments and government entities must have a language policy that states which languages are considered the official languages of that entity, and each language policy must also specify how that department or entity intends to communicate with people whose language of choice is \"South African sign language\".\n\nNeither South African Sign Language nor any other sign language is an official language of South Africa. In 2008 the SASL Policy Implementation Conference gathered many key role players including scholars, researchers and teachers, policy makers, advocates and governmental bodies to promote South African Sign Language to become recognised as South Africa's twelfth official language.\n\nAccording to the South African Schools Act, Act 84 of 1996, all schools must have a language policy, and that when selecting languages for such a policy, a \"recognised Sign Language\" should be evaluated as if it has official language status along with the other eleven official languages.\n\nAccording to the \"Language in Education\" policy in terms of section 3(4)(m) of the National Education Policy Act, Act 27 of 1996, the main aims of the Ministry of Education’s policy for language in education include \"to support the teaching and learning of all other languages required by learners or used by communities in South Africa, including languages used for religious purposes, languages which are important for international trade and communication, and South African Sign Language, as well as Alternative and \nAugmentative Communication\".\n\nSouth African Sign Language is accepted as one of the languages of instruction in the education of Deaf learners.\n\nThe number of deaf people in South Africa (600,000 deaf and 1.4 million people with hearing loss) does not give an accurate depiction of the number of people who communicate in South African Sign Language. \nThere is currently no estimate for the number of people who communicate in South African Sign Language in South Africa. Estimates vary greatly, from 700,000 to 2 million users. A request was made to the Human Sciences Research Council (South Africa) to measure this as part of the 2011 census.\n\nFingerspelling is a manual technique of signing used to spell letters and numbers (numerals, cardinals). Therefore, fingerspelling is a sign language technique for \"borrowing\" words from spoken languages, as well as for spelling names of people, places and objects. It is a practical tool to refer to the written word.\n\nSome words which are often fingerspelled tend to become signs in their own right (becoming \"frozen\"), following linguistic transformation processes such as alphanumeric incorporation and abbreviation. For instance, the sign-name for Cape Town uses incorporated fingerspelled letters \"C.T.\" ( transition from handshape for letter 'C' to letter 'T' of both wrists with rotation an horizontal axis). The month of July is often abbreviated as 'J-L-Y'.\n\nFingerspelling words is not a substitute for using existing signs : it takes longer to sign and it is harder to perceive. If the fingerspelled word is a borrowing, fingerspelling depends on both users having knowledge of the oral language (English, Sotho, Afrikaans). \nAlthough proper names (such as a person's name, a company name) are often fingerspelled, it is often a temporary measure until the Deaf community agrees on a Sign name replacement.\n\nSign names are specific signs which are associated with proper names (a location, a person, an organisation). Sign names are often chosen based on a salient physical property. For instance, the sign name for Nelson Mandela is signed using a flat B-hand that \"follows a hair-line over the head\". The sign name for the bank ABSA is made with both hands following the movement implied in the company corporate logo.\n\nSouth Africa is one of a few countries to have legal recognition of sign language. There is presumably some regional variation, but signers from across the country can readily understand each other, as demonstrated for example at the annual Deaf Forum.\n\nIt is commonly believed among South Africans, even among deaf South Africans, that different language communities have different sign languages. This is evidently the result of the deaf not being able to understand sign-language interpreters from other communities. However, this is because such \"interpreters\" do not actually use sign language, but rather Signed English, Signed Xhosa, etc., and only those who have been schooled in these artificial codes can understand them. (See manually coded language in South Africa.)\n\nTimeline:\n\nAs early as 1863, Irish nuns were involved in training programmes for the Deaf. Irish Sign Language, \"originally heavily influenced by French Sign Language\" is said to have had a noticeable influence in sign languages in the world, including in South Africa.\n\nIn 1874 in Cape Town, the first institution for the Deaf called \"Grimley Institute for Deaf and Dumb\" was established by an Irish Deaf woman named Bridget Lynne.\n\nIn 1881 in Worcester, \"De La Bat school\" for the Deaf was established.\n\nFrom 1877, Dominican sisters started to settle near Durban. In 1884, Sister Stephanie Hanshuber, from Germany, introduced the \"oral method\" in South Africa.\n\nIn 1888 \"King William's Town Convent School for the Education of the Deaf\" was formally opened.\n\n\"Since there is little historical evidence, it is presumed that South African Sign Language has a mixture of the Irish influence from the Dominican Irish nuns, and British influence as well as the American influence. (Sign Language is the natural language of the Deaf.)\"\n\n\nGeneral information:\n\nOrganisations:\n\nLearning:\n\nResearch resources:\n"}
{"id": "44122898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44122898", "title": "Southern Ryukyuan languages", "text": "Southern Ryukyuan languages\n\nThe form one of two branches of the Ryukyuan languages. They are spoken on the Sakishima Islands in Okinawa Prefecture. The three languages are Miyako (on the Miyako Islands) and Yaeyama and Yonaguni (on the Yaeyama Islands, of the Macro-Yaeyama subgroup). The Macro-Yaeyaman languages have been identified as \"critically endangered\" by UNESCO and Miyako as \"definitely endangered\".\n\nAll Ryukyuan languages are officially labeled as dialects of Japanese by the Japanese government despite mutual unintelligibility. While the majority of Ryukyuan languages have used Chinese or Japanese script for writing, the Yaeyama Islands never had a full-featured writing system. Islanders developed the Kaidā glyphs as a simple method to record family names, items, and numerals to aid in tax accounting. This system was used until the 19th century introduction of Japanese-language education. Even today, communication in the Yaeyama or Yonaguni languages is almost exclusively oral, and written communication is done in Japanese.\n\nProto-Sakishima, the proto-language ancestral to the Southern Ryukyuan languages, has been reconstructed by Bentley (2008).\n"}
{"id": "50882188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50882188", "title": "Spomenka Štimec", "text": "Spomenka Štimec\n\nSpomenka Štimec (born 4 January 1949) is a Croatian writer, one of the most acclaimed contemporary writers in Esperanto, and also significant to Esperanto in Croatia. She shared a .\n"}
{"id": "133176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=133176", "title": "Surfactant", "text": "Surfactant\n\nSurfactants are compounds that lower the surface tension (or interfacial tension) between two liquids, between a gas and a liquid, or between a liquid and a solid. Surfactants may act as detergents, wetting agents, emulsifiers, foaming agents, and dispersants.\n\nThe term \"surfactant\" is a blend of \"surface active agent\".\n\nIn the United States National Library of Medicine's Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) vocabulary, \"surfactant\" is reserved for the meaning pulmonary surfactant. For the more general meaning, \"surface active agent/s\" is the heading.\n\nSurfactants are usually organic compounds that are amphiphilic, meaning they contain both hydrophobic groups (their \"tails\") and hydrophilic groups (their \"heads\"). Therefore, a surfactant contains both a water-insoluble (or oil-soluble) component and a water-soluble component. Surfactants will diffuse in water and adsorb at interfaces between air and water or at the interface between oil and water, in the case where water is mixed with oil. The water-insoluble hydrophobic group may extend out of the bulk water phase, into the air or into the oil phase, while the water-soluble head group remains in the water phase.\n\nWorld production of surfactants is estimated at 15 Mton/y, of which about half are soaps. Other surfactants produced on a particularly large scale are linear alkylbenzene sulfonates (1700 kton/y), lignin sulfonates (600 kton/y), fatty alcohol ethoxylates (700 ktons/y), and alkylphenol ethoxylates (500 kton/y).\n\nIn the bulk aqueous phase, surfactants form aggregates, such as micelles, where the hydrophobic tails form the core of the aggregate and the hydrophilic heads are in contact with the surrounding liquid. Other types of aggregates can also be formed, such as spherical or cylindrical micelles or lipid bilayers. The shape of the aggregates depends on the chemical structure of the surfactants, namely the balance in size between the hydrophilic head and hydrophobic tail. A measure of this is the HLB, Hydrophilic-lipophilic balance. Surfactants reduce the surface tension of water by adsorbing at the liquid-air interface. The relation that links the surface tension and the surface excess is known as the Gibbs isotherm.\n\nThe dynamics of surfactant adsorption is of great importance for practical applications such as in foaming, emulsifying or coating processes, where bubbles or drops are rapidly generated and need to be stabilized. The dynamics of adsorption depend on the diffusion coefficient of the surfactant. As the interface is created, the adsorption is limited by the diffusion of the surfactant to the interface. In some cases, there can exist an energetic barrier to adsorption or desorption of the surfactant. If such a barrier limits the adsorption rate, the dynamics are said to be ‘kinetically limited'. Such energy barriers can be due to steric or electrostatic repulsions.\nThe surface rheology of surfactant layers, including the elasticity and viscosity of the layer, play an important role in the stability of foams and emulsions.\n\nInterfacial and surface tension can be characterized by classical methods such as the\n-pendant or spinning drop method.\nDynamic surface tensions, i.e. surface tension as a function of time, can be obtained by the maximum bubble pressure apparatus\n\nThe structure of surfactant layers can be studied by ellipsometry or X-Ray reflectivity.\n\nSurface rheology can be characterized by the oscillating drop method or shear surface rheometers such as double-cone, double-ring or magnetic rod shear surface rheometer.\n\nIn solution, detergents help solubilize a variety of chemical species by dissociating aggregates and unfolding proteins. Popular surfactants in the biochemistry laboratory are SDS and CTAB. Detergents are key reagents to extract protein by lysis of the cells and tissues: They disorganize the membrane's lipidic bilayer (SDS, Triton X-100, X-114, CHAPS, DOC, and NP-40), and solubilize proteins. Milder detergents such as octyl thioglucoside, octyl glucoside or dodecyl maltoside are used to solubilize membrane proteins such as enzymes and receptors without denaturing them. Non-solubilized material is harvested by centrifugation or other means. For electrophoresis, for example, proteins are classically treated with SDS to denature the native tertiary and quaternary structures, allowing the separation of proteins according to their molecular weight.\n\nDetergents have also been used to decellularise organs. This process maintains a matrix of proteins that preserves the structure of the organ and often the microvascular network. The process has been successfully used to prepare organs such as the liver and heart for transplant in rats. Pulmonary surfactants are also naturally secreted by type II cells of the lung alveoli in mammals.\n\nThe \"tails\" of most surfactants are fairly similar, consisting of a hydrocarbon chain, which can be branched, linear, or aromatic. Fluorosurfactants have fluorocarbon chains. Siloxane surfactants have siloxane chains.\n\nMany important surfactants include a polyether chain terminating in a highly polar anionic group. The polyether groups often comprise ethoxylated (polyethylene oxide-like) sequences inserted to increase the hydrophilic character of a surfactant. Polypropylene oxides conversely, may be inserted to increase the lipophilic character of a surfactant.\n\nSurfactant molecules have either one tail or two; those with two tails are said to be \"double-chained\".\n\nMost commonly, surfactants are classified according to polar head group. A non-ionic surfactant has no charged groups in its head. The head of an ionic surfactant carries a net positive, or negative charge. If the charge is negative, the surfactant is more specifically called anionic; if the charge is positive, it is called cationic. If a surfactant contains a head with two oppositely charged groups, it is termed zwitterionic. Commonly encountered surfactants of each type include:\n\nAnionic surfactants contain anionic functional groups at their head, such as sulfate, sulfonate, phosphate, and carboxylates.\nProminent alkyl sulfates include ammonium lauryl sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate (sodium dodecyl sulfate, SLS, or SDS), and the related alkyl-ether sulfates sodium laureth sulfate (sodium lauryl ether sulfate or SLES), and sodium myreth sulfate.\n\nOthers include:\n\nThese are the most common surfactants and comprise the carboxylate salts (soaps), such as sodium stearate. More specialized species include sodium lauroyl sarcosinate and carboxylate-based fluorosurfactants such as perfluorononanoate, perfluorooctanoate (PFOA or PFO).\n\npH-dependent primary, secondary, or tertiary amines; primary and secondary amines become positively charged at pH < 10: octenidine dihydrochloride.\n\nPermanently charged quaternary ammonium salts: cetrimonium bromide (CTAB), cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC), benzalkonium chloride (BAC), benzethonium chloride (BZT), dimethyldioctadecylammonium chloride, and dioctadecyldimethylammonium bromide (DODAB).\n\nZwitterionic (amphoteric) surfactants have both cationic and anionic centers attached to the same molecule. The cationic part is based on primary, secondary, or tertiary amines or quaternary ammonium cations. The anionic part can be more variable and include sulfonates, as in the sultaines CHAPS (3-[(3-Cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate) and cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine. Betaines such as cocamidopropyl betaine have a carboxylate with the ammonium. The most common biological zwitterionic surfactants have a phosphate anion with an amine or ammonium, such as the phospholipids phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylcholine, and sphingomyelins.\n\nNonionic surfactants have covalently bonded oxygen-containing hydrophilic groups, which are bonded to hydrophobic parent structures. The water-solubility of the oxygen groups is the result of hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding decreases with increasing temperature, and the water solubility of nonionic surfactants therefore decreases with increasing temperature.\n\nNonionic surfactants are less sensitive to water hardness than anionic surfactants, and they foam less strongly. The differences between the individual types of nonionic surfactants are slight, and the choice is primarily governed having regard to the costs of special properties (e.g., effectiveness and efficiency, toxicity, dermatological compatibility, biodegradability) or permission for use in food.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSpans:\n\n\nTweens:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the case of ionic surfactants, the counter-ion can be:\n\n\nA wetting agent is a surfactant that, when dissolved in water, lowers the advancing contact angle, aids in displacing an air phase at the surface, and replaces it with a liquid phase. Examples of application of wetting to pharmacy and medicine include the displacement of air from the surface of sulfur, charcoal, and other powders for the purpose of dispersing these drugs in liquid vehicles; the displacement of air from the matrix of cotton pads and bandages so that medicinal solutions can be absorbed for application to various body areas; the displacement of dirt and debris by the use of detergents in the washing of wounds; and the application of medicinal lotions and sprays to surface of skin and mucous membranes.\n\nThe human body produces different types of surfactant in different parts or organs for different purposes. Pulmonary surfactant is produced in lungs in order to facilitate breathing by increasing total lung capacity, TLC, and lung compliance. In respiratory distress syndrome or RDS surfactant replacement therapy helps patients have normal respiration by using pharmaceutical forms of the surfactants. One of the most important pharmaceutical pulmonary surfactants is Survanta (beractant) or its generic form Beraksurf produced by Abbvie and Tekzima respectively.\n\nThe annual global production of surfactants was 13 million tonnes in 2008. In 2014, the world market for surfactants reached a volume of more than 33 billion US-dollars. Market researchers expect annual revenues to increase by 2.5% per year to around 40.4 billion US-dollars until 2022. The commercially most significant type of surfactants is currently the anionic surfactant alkyl benzene sulfonate (LAS), which is widely used in cleaners and detergents.\n\nSurfactants are routinely deposited in numerous ways on land and into water systems, whether as part of an intended process or as industrial and household waste. Some of them are known to be toxic to animals, ecosystems, and humans, and can increase the diffusion of other environmental contaminants. As a result, there are proposed or voluntary restrictions on the use of some surfactants. For example, PFOS is a persistent organic pollutant as judged by the Stockholm Convention. Additionally, PFOA has been subject to a voluntary agreement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and eight chemical companies to reduce and eliminate emissions of the chemical and its precursors.\n\nThe two major surfactants used in the year 2000 were linear alkylbenzene sulfonates (LAS) and the alkyl phenol ethoxylates (APE). They break down in the aerobic conditions found in sewage treatment plants and in soil to the metabolite nonylphenol, which is thought to be an endocrine disruptor.\n\nOrdinary dishwashing detergent, for example, will promote water penetration in soil, but the effect would last only a few days (many standard laundry detergent powders contain levels of chemicals such as alkali and chelating agents that can be damaging to plants and should not be applied to soils). Commercial soil wetting agents will continue to work for a considerable period, but they will eventually be degraded by soil micro-organisms. Some can, however, interfere with the life-cycles of some aquatic organisms, so care should be taken to prevent run-off of these products into streams, and excess product should not be washed down.\n\nAnionic surfactants can be found in soils as the result of sludge application, wastewater irrigation, and remediation processes. Relatively high concentrations of surfactants together with multimetals can represent an environmental risk. At low concentrations, surfactant application is unlikely to have a significant effect on trace metal mobility.\n\nBiosurfactants are surface-active substances synthesised by living cells. Interest in microbial surfactants is due to their diversity, environmentally friendly nature, possibility of large-scale production, selectivity, performance under extreme conditions, and potential applications in environmental protection. A few of the popular examples of microbial biosurfactants includes Emulsan produced by \"Acinetobacter calcoaceticus\", Sophorolipids produced by several yeasts belonging to \"candida\" and the \"starmerella\" clade, and Rhamnolipid produced by \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" etc.\n\nBiosurfactants enhance the emulsification of hydrocarbons, have the potential to solubilise hydrocarbon contaminants and increase their availability for microbial degradation. The use of chemicals for the treatment of a hydrocarbon polluted site may contaminate the environment with their by-products, whereas biological treatment may efficiently destroy pollutants, while being biodegradable themselves. Hence, biosurfactant-producing microorganisms may play an important role in the accelerated bioremediation of hydrocarbon-contaminated sites. These compounds can also be used in enhanced oil recovery and may be considered for other potential applications in environmental protection. Other applications include herbicides and pesticides formulations, detergents, healthcare and cosmetics, pulp and paper, coal, textiles, ceramic processing and food industries, uranium ore-processing, and mechanical dewatering of peat.\n\nSeveral microorganisms are known to synthesise surface-active agents; most of them are bacteria and yeasts. When grown on hydrocarbon substrate as the carbon source, these microorganisms synthesise a wide range of chemicals with surface activity, such as glycolipid, phospholipid, and others. These chemicals are synthesised to emulsify the hydrocarbon substrate and facilitate its transport into the cells. In some bacterial species such as \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\", biosurfactants are also involved in a group motility behavior called swarming motility.\n\nMost anionic and nonionic surfactants are nontoxic, having LD50 comparable to sodium chloride. The toxicity of quaternary ammonium compounds, which are antibacterial and antifungal, varies. Dialkyldimethylammonium chlorides (DDAC, DSDMAC) used as fabric softeners have low LD50 (5 g/kg) and are essentially non-toxic, while the disinfectant alkylbenzyldimethylammonium chloride has an LD50 of 0.35 g/kg.\n\nProlonged exposure to surfactants can irritate and damage the skin because surfactants disrupt the lipid membrane that protects skin and other cells. Skin irritancy generally increases in the series nonionic, amphoteric, anionic, cationic surfactants.\n\nThe biodegradability of a surfactant is determined by its hydrophobic hydrocarbon group.\n\nThe use of biosurfactants as a way to remove petroleum from contaminated sites has been studied and found to be safe and effective in the removal of petroleum products from soil. Other studies found that surfactants are often more toxic than the oil that is being dispersed, and the combination of the oil and the surfactant can be more toxic than either alone. Biosurfactants were not used by BP after the \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill. However, unprecedented amounts of Corexit (active ingredient: dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate (DOSS), sorbitan monooleate (Span 80), and polyoxyethylenated sorbitan monooleate (Tween-80)), were sprayed directly into the ocean at the leak and on the sea-water's surface, the theory being that the surfactants isolate droplets of oil, making it easier for petroleum-consuming microbes to digest the oil.\n\nBiosurfactants produced by microbe or bacteria can be used to enhance oil production by microbial enhanced oil recovery method (MEOR).\n\nSurfactants play an important role as cleaning, wetting, dispersing, emulsifying, foaming and anti-foaming agents in many practical applications and products, including detergents, fabric softeners, \nemulsions, soaps, paints, adhesives, inks, anti-fogs, ski waxes, snowboard wax, deinking of recycled papers, in flotation, washing and enzymatic processes, laxatives. Also agrochemical formulations such as Herbicides (some), insecticides, biocides (sanitizers), and spermicides (nonoxynol-9). Personal care products such as cosmetics, shampoos,shower gel, hair conditioners (after shampoo), toothpastes. Surfactants are used in firefighting and pipelines (liquid drag reducing agents). Alkali surfactant polymers are used to mobilize oil in oil wells). Surfactants are used as plasticizer in nanocellulose Ferrofluids, and leak detectors. Surfactants are used with quantum dots in order to manipulate growth. and assembly of the dots, reactions on their surface, electrical properties, etc., it is important to understand how surfactants arrange on the surface of the quantum dots.\n\n"}
{"id": "38458166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38458166", "title": "Tring language", "text": "Tring language\n\nTring is one of the languages of Borneo, in Sarawak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28434110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28434110", "title": "U word", "text": "U word\n"}
{"id": "46266195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46266195", "title": "UniKey (software)", "text": "UniKey (software)\n\nUniKey is an open-source Vietnamese input method editor for Microsoft Windows developed by Phạm Kim Long. , it is the most popular input method editor for Vietnamese. The official Linux port of UniKey is known as X-UniKey.\n\nUniKey supports the three most common Vietnamese input methods: Telex, VNI, and VIQR. Due to the fragmented state of Vietnamese computing during the 1990s, UniKey supports as many as 14 Vietnamese character encodings, including TCVN3 (VSCII), VNI, Unicode, VIQR, VPS, VISCII, and Windows-1258.\n\nLong began developing the software privately in 1994 as \"TVNBK\", short for ', after Hanoi University of Science and Technology ('), where he was studying. TVNBK was originally written in assembly language for DOS systems. In the mid-1990s, he ported it to Windows NT 4.0, renaming it \"LittleVnKey\". In 2000, he released the software publicly for the first time as UniKey and placed it under the GNU General Public License. Recent versions of the software and its source code are hosted on SourceForge. Long has also developed Laban Key, a popular Vietnamese input method editor for Android and iOS devices that debuted in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "29324236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29324236", "title": "Varieties of Arabic", "text": "Varieties of Arabic\n\nThere are many varieties of Arabic (dialects or otherwise) in existence. Arabic is a Semitic language within the Afroasiatic family that originated on the Arabian Peninsula. It is classified as a macrolanguage comprising 30 modern varieties, including its standard form. The largest divisions occur between the spoken languages of different regions. Some varieties of Arabic in North Africa, for example, are not easily comprehensible to an Arabic speaker from the Levant or the Persian Gulf. Within these broad regions further and considerable geographic distinctions exist, within countries, across country borders, even between cities and villages.\n\nAnother major distinction exists between the widely diverging colloquial spoken varieties, used for nearly all everyday speaking situations, and the formal standardized language, found mostly in writing or in prepared speech. The regionally prevalent variety is learned as the speaker's first language while the formal language is subsequently learned in school. The formal language itself varies between its modern iteration, Modern Standard Arabic (often called MSA in English) and the Classical Arabic that serves as its basis, though Arabic speakers typically do not make this distinction.\n\nThe largest differences between the classical/standard and the colloquial Arabic are the loss of grammatical case; a different and strict word order; the loss of the previous system of grammatical mood, along with the evolution of a new system; the loss of the inflected passive voice, except in a few relic varieties; restriction in the use of the dual number and (for most varieties) the loss of the feminine plural. Many Arabic dialects, Maghrebi Arabic in particular, also have significant vowel shifts and unusual consonant clusters. Unlike other dialect groups, in the Maghrebi Arabic group, first person singular verbs begin with a n- (ن).\n\nFurther substantial differences exist between Bedouin and sedentary speech, the countryside and major cities, ethnic groups, religious groups, social classes, men and women, and the young and the old. These differences are to some degree bridgeable. Often, Arabic speakers can adjust their speech in a variety of ways according to the context and to their intentions—for example, to speak with people from different regions, to demonstrate their level of education or to draw on the authority of the spoken language.\n\nArabic is characterized by a wide number of varieties; however, Arabic speakers are often able to manipulate the way they speak based on the circumstances. There can be a number of motivations for changing one's speech: the formality of a situation, the need to communicate with people with different dialects, to get social approval, to differentiate oneself from the listener, when citing a written text, to differentiate between personal and professional or general matters, to clarify a point, and to shift to a new topic.\n\nAn important factor in the mixing or changing of Arabic is the concept of a prestige dialect. This refers to the level of respect accorded to a language or dialect within a speech community. The formal Arabic language carries a considerable prestige in most Arabic-speaking communities, depending on the context. This is not the only source of prestige, though. Many studies have shown that for most speakers, there is a prestige variety of vernacular Arabic. In Egypt, for non-Cairenes, the prestige dialect is Cairo Arabic. For Jordanian women from Bedouin or rural background, it may be the urban dialects of the big cities, especially including the capital Amman. Moreover, in certain contexts, a dialect relatively different from formal Arabic may carry more prestige than a dialect closer to the formal language—this is the case in Bahrain, for example.\n\nLanguage mixes and changes in different ways. Arabic speakers often use more than one variety of Arabic within a conversation or even a sentence. This process is referred to as code-switching. For example, a woman on a TV program could appeal to the authority of the formal language by using elements of it in her speech in order to prevent other speakers from cutting her off. Another process at work is \"leveling\", the \"elimination of very localised dialectical features in favour of more regionally general ones.\" This can affect all linguistic levels—semantic, syntactic, phonological, etc. The change can be temporary, as when a group of speakers with substantially different Arabics communicate, or it can be permanent, as often happens when people from the countryside move to the city and adopt the more prestigious urban dialect, possibly over a couple of generations.\n\nThis process of accommodation sometimes appeals to the formal language, but often does not. For example, villagers in central Palestine may try to use the dialect of Jerusalem rather than their own when speaking with people with substantially different dialects, particularly since they may have a very weak grasp of the formal language. In another example, groups of educated speakers from different regions will often use dialectical forms that represent a middle ground between their dialects rather than trying to use the formal language, to make communication easier and more comprehensible. For example, to express the existential \"there is\" (as in, \"there is a place where...\"), Arabic speakers have access to many different words:\n\nIn this case, is most likely to be used as it is not associated with a particular region and is the closest to a dialectical middle ground for this group of speakers. Moreover, given the prevalence of movies and TV shows in Egyptian Arabic, the speakers are all likely to be familiar with it. Iraqi \"aku\", Levantine \"fīh\" and North African \"kayn\" all evolve from Classical Arabic forms (\"yakūn\", \"fīhi\", \"kā'in\" respectively), but now sound very different.\n\nSometimes a certain dialect may be associated with backwardness and does not carry mainstream prestige—yet it will continue to be used as it carries a kind of covert prestige and serves to differentiate one group from another when necessary.\n\nThe greatest variations between kinds of Arabic are those between regional language groups. These can be divided many ways, but the following typology is usually used:\nThese large regional groups do not correspond to borders of modern states. In the western parts of the Arab world, varieties are referred to as الدارجة \"ad-dārija\", and in the eastern parts, as العامية \"al-ʿāmmiyya\". Nearby varieties of Arabic are mostly mutually intelligible, but faraway varieties tend not to be. Varieties west of Egypt are particularly disparate, with Egyptian Arabic speakers claiming difficulty in understanding North African Arabic speakers, while North African Arabic speakers' ability to understand other Arabic speakers is mostly due to the widespread popularity of Egyptian Standard and to a lesser extent, the Lebanese popular media (this phenomenon is called asymmetric intelligibility). One factor in the differentiation of the varieties is the influence from other languages previously spoken or still presently spoken in the regions, such as Coptic in Egypt, French, Ottoman Turkish, Italian, Spanish, Berber, Punic or Phoenician in North Africa, Himyaritic, Modern South Arabian and Old South Arabian in Yemen and Aramaic in the Levant. Speakers of mutually unintelligible varieties are often able to communicate by switching to Modern Standard Arabic.\n\nModern languages have also typically provided a significant number of new words, and have sometimes also influenced pronunciation or word order. Examples are Turkish and English in Egypt, French in North Africa and Syria, English and French in Lebanon, and English and Hebrew in Israel. However, a much more significant factor for all five dialect groups is, as Latin among Romance languages, retention (or change of meaning) of the form of Classical Arabic used in the Quran.\n\nThe following example illustrates similarities and differences between the literary, standardized varieties, and major urban dialects of Arabic. Maltese, a distantly related Siculo-Arabic language descended from Maghrebi Arabic is also provided.\n\n\"True pronunciations differ; transliterations used approach an approximate demonstration. Also, the pronunciation of Modern Standard Arabic differs significantly from region to region.\"\nFor the sake of comparison, consider the same sentence in German and Dutch:\n\n\nOr in Spanish and Portuguese:\n\n\nSome linguists do argue that the varieties of Arabic are different enough to qualify as separate languages in the way that Spanish and Portuguese or German and Dutch do. However, as Reem Bassiouney points out, perhaps the difference between 'language' and 'dialect' is to some degree political rather than linguistic.\n\n\"Peripheral\" varieties of Arabic – that is, varieties spoken in countries where Arabic is not a dominant language and a lingua franca (e.g., Turkey, Iran, Cyprus, Chad, and Nigeria) – are particularly divergent in some respects, especially in their vocabularies, since they are less influenced by classical Arabic. However, historically they fall within the same dialect classifications as the varieties that are spoken in countries where Arabic is the dominant language. Because most of these peripheral dialects are located in Muslim majority countries, they are now influenced by Classical Arabic and Modern Standard Arabic, the Arabic varieties of the Qur'an and their Arabic-speaking neighbours, respectively.\n\nProbably the most divergent non-creole Arabic variety is Cypriot Maronite Arabic, a nearly extinct variety that has been heavily influenced by Greek, and written in Greek and Latin alphabets.\n\nMaltese is descended from Siculo-Arabic. Its vocabulary has acquired a large number of loanwords from Sicilian, Italian and recently English, and it uses only a Latin-based alphabet. It is the only Semitic language among the official languages of the European Union.\n\nArabic-based pidgins (which have a limited vocabulary consisting mostly of Arabic words, but lack most Arabic morphological features) are in widespread use along the southern edge of the Sahara, and have been for a long time. In the eleventh century, the medieval geographer al-Bakri records a text in an Arabic-based pidgin, probably one that was spoken in the region corresponding to modern Mauritania. In some regions, particularly around the southern Sudan, the pidgins have creolized (see the list below).\n\nEven within countries where the official language is Arabic, different varieties of Arabic are spoken. For example, within Syria, the Arabic spoken in Homs is recognized as different from the Arabic spoken in Damascus, but both are considered to be varieties of \"Levantine\" Arabic. And within Morocco, the Arabic of the city of Fes is considered different from the Arabic spoken elsewhere in the country.\n\nAnother way that varieties of Arabic differ is that some are formal and others are colloquial (that is, vernacular). There are two formal varieties, or اللغة الفصحى \"al-lugha(t) al-fuṣḥá\", One of these, known in English as \"Modern Standard Arabic\" (\"MSA\"), is used in contexts such as writing, broadcasting, interviewing, and speechmaking. The other, Classical Arabic, is the language of the Qur'an. It is rarely used except in reciting the Qur'an or quoting older classical texts. (Arabic speakers typically do not make an explicit distinction between MSA and Classical Arabic.) Modern Standard Arabic was deliberately developed in the early part of the 19th century as a modernized version of Classical Arabic.\n\nPeople often use a mixture of both colloquial and formal Arabic. For example, interviewers or speechmakers generally use MSA in asking prepared questions or making prepared remarks, then switch to a colloquial variety to add a spontaneous comment or respond to a question. The ratio of MSA to colloquial varieties depends on the speaker, the topic, and the situation—amongst other factors. Today even the least educated citizens are exposed to MSA through public education and exposure to mass media, and so tend to use elements of it in speaking to others. This is an example of what linguistics researchers call \"diglossia\".\nEgyptian linguist Al-Said Badawi proposed the following distinctions between the different \"levels of speech\" involved when speakers of Egyptian Arabic switch between vernacular and formal Arabic varieties:\nAlmost everyone in Egypt is able to use more than one of these levels of speech, and people often switch between them, sometimes within the same sentence. This is generally true in other Arabic-speaking countries as well.\n\nThe spoken dialects of Arabic have occasionally been written, usually in the Arabic alphabet. Vernacular Arabic was first recognized as a written language distinct from Classical Arabic in 17th century Ottoman Egypt, when the Cairo elite began to trend towards colloquial writing. A record of the Cairo vernacular of the time is found in the dictionary compiled by Yusuf al-Maghribi. More recently, many plays and poems, as well as a few other works (even translations of Plato) exist in Lebanese Arabic and Egyptian Arabic; books of poetry, at least, exist for most varieties. In Algeria, colloquial Maghrebi Arabic was taught as a separate subject under French colonization, and some textbooks exist. Mizrahi Jews throughout the Arab world who spoke Judeo-Arabic dialects rendered newspapers, letters, accounts, stories, and translations of some parts of their liturgy in the Hebrew alphabet, adding diacritics and other conventions for letters that exist in Judeo-Arabic but not Hebrew. The Latin alphabet was advocated for Lebanese Arabic by Said Aql, whose supporters published several books in his transcription. In 1944, Abdelaziz Pasha Fahmi, a member of the Academy of the Arabic Language in Egypt proposed the replacement of the Arabic alphabet with the Latin alphabet. His proposal was discussed in two sessions in the communion but was rejected, and faced strong opposition in cultural circles. Latin alphabet is used by Arabic speakers over the Internet or for sending messages via cellular phones when the Arabic alphabet is unavailable or difficult to use for technical reasons; this is also used in Modern Standard Arabic when Arabic speakers of different dialects communicate each other.\n\nSociolinguistics is the study of how language usage is affected by societal factors, e.g., cultural norms and contexts (see also pragmatics). The following sections examine some of the ways that modern Arab societies influence how Arabic is spoken.\n\nThe religion of Arabic speakers is sometimes involved in shaping how they speak Arabic. Of course, as is the case with other variables, religion cannot be seen in isolation. It is generally connected with the political systems in the different countries. Unlike that which is often the case in the West, religion in the Arab world is not usually seen as an individual choice. Rather, it is matter of group affiliation: one is born a Muslim (and even either Sunni or Shiite among them), Christian or Jew, and this becomes a bit like one's ethnicity. Religion as a sociolinguistic variable should be understood in this context.\n\nBahrain provides an excellent illustration. A major distinction can be made between the Shiite Bahraini, who are the oldest population of Bahrain, and the Sunni population that began to immigrate to Bahrain in the eighteenth century. The Sunni form a minority of the population. The ruling family of Bahrain is Sunni. The colloquial language represented on TV is almost invariably that of the Sunni population. Therefore, power, prestige and financial control are associated with the Sunni Arabs. This is having a major effect on the direction of language change in Bahrain.\n\nThe case of Iraq also illustrates how there can be significant differences in how Arabic is spoken on the basis of religion. (Note that the study referred to here was conducted before the Iraq War.) In Baghdad, there are significant linguistic differences between Arabic Christian and Muslim inhabitants of the city. The Christians of Baghdad are a well-established community, and their dialect has evolved from the sedentary vernacular of urban medieval Iraq. The typical Muslim dialect of Baghdad is a more recent arrival in the city and comes from Bedouin speech instead. In Baghdad, as elsewhere in the Arab world, the various communities share MSA as a prestige dialect, but the Muslim colloquial dialect is associated with power and money, given that that community is the more dominant. Therefore, the Christian population of the city learns to use the Muslim dialect in more formal situations, for example, when a Christian school teacher is trying to call students in the class to order.\n\nA basic distinction that cuts across the entire geography of the Arabic-speaking world is between sedentary and nomadic varieties (often misleadingly called Bedouin). The distinction stems from the settlement patterns in the wake of the Arab conquests. As regions were conquered, army camps were set up that eventually grew into cities, and settlement of the rural areas by nomadic Arabs gradually followed thereafter. In some areas, sedentary dialects are divided further into urban and rural variants.\n\nThe most obvious phonetic difference between the two groups is the pronunciation of the letter ق \"qaf\", which is pronounced as a voiced in the Urban varieties of the Arabian Peninsula (like the Hejazi dialect in the ancient urban cities of Mecca and Medina) as well as in the Bedouin dialects across all Arabic-Speaking Countries, but is voiceless mainly in the post-Arabized Urban centers as either (with being an allophone in few words mostly in North African cities) or (merging with ) in the urban centers of Egypt and the Levant, all of which were mostly Arabized after the Islamic Conquests.\n\nThe other major phonetic difference is that the rural varieties preserve the Classical Arabic (CA) interdentals ث and ذ, and merge the CA emphatic sounds ض and ظ into rather than sedentary .\n\nThe most significant differences between rural Arabic and non-rural Arabic are in syntax. The sedentary varieties in particular share a number of common innovations from CA. This has led to the suggestion, first articulated by Charles Ferguson, that a simplified koiné language developed in the army staging camps in Iraq, from whence the remaining parts of the modern Arab world were conquered.\n\nIn general the rural varieties are more conservative than the sedentary varieties and the rural varieties within the Arabian peninsula are even more conservative than those elsewhere. Within the sedentary varieties, the western varieties (particularly, Moroccan Arabic) are less conservative than the eastern varieties.\n\nA number of cities in the Arabic world speak a \"Bedouin\" variety, which acquires prestige in that context.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen it comes to phonetics the Arabic dialects differ in the pronunciation of the short vowels (, and ) and a number of selected consonants, mainly , and the interdental consonants , and , in addition to the dental .\n\nEmphasis spreading is a phenomenon where is backed to in the vicinity of emphatic consonants. The domain of emphasis spreading is potentially unbounded; in Egyptian Arabic, the entire word is usually affected, although in Levantine Arabic and some other varieties, it is blocked by or (and sometimes ). It is associated with a concomitant decrease in the amount of pharyngealization of emphatic consonants, so that in some dialects emphasis spreading is the only way to distinguish emphatic consonants from their plain counterparts. It also pharyngealizes consonants between the source consonant and affected vowels, although the effects are much less noticeable than for vowels.\nEmphasis spreading does \"not\" affect the affrication of non-emphatic in Moroccan Arabic, with the result that these two phonemes are always distinguishable regardless of the nearby presence of other emphatic phonemes.\n\nThe main dialectal variations in Arabic consonants revolve around the six consonants; , , , , and .\n\nClassical Arabic varies widely from a dialect to another with , and being the most common:\n\n\n\nClassical Arabic (Modern Standard ) varies widely from a dialect to another with , and being the most common:\n\n\nClassical interdental consonants and become or in some words in Egypt, Sudan, most of the Levant, parts of the Arabian peninsula (urban Hejaz and parts of Yemen). In Morocco, Algeria and other parts of North Africa they are consonantly , but remain and in most of the Arabian Peninsula, Iraq, Tunisia, parts of Yemen, rural Palestinian, Eastern Libyan, and some rural Algerian dialects. In Arabic-speaking towns of Eastern Turkey, (Urfa, Siirt and Mardin) they respectively become .\n\n\n\nNorthern varieties are influenced by the Aramaic language.\n\nCentral varieties are influenced by the Coptic language and spoken in Nubia.\n\nWestern varieties are influenced by the Berber languages, Punic or Phoenician and by Romance languages.\n\nSouthern Varieties are slightly influenced by Persian and other South Asian languages\n\n\nJewish varieties are influenced by the Hebrew and Aramaic languages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1756405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756405", "title": "Viz Media", "text": "Viz Media\n\nVIZ Media LLC is an American manga and anime distribution and entertainment company headquartered in San Francisco, California. It was founded in 1986 as VIZ LLC. In 2005, VIZ LLC and ShoPro Entertainment merged to form the current VIZ Media LLC, which is jointly owned by Japanese publishers Shueisha, Shogakukan and Shogakukan-Shueisha Productions (ShoPro). As of 2017, Viz Media is the largest publisher of graphic novels and comic books in the United States, with a 23% share of the market.\n\nSeiji Horibuchi, originally from Tokushima Prefecture in Shikoku, moved to California in 1975. After living in the mountains for almost two years, he moved to San Francisco, where he started a business exporting American cultural items to Japan, and became a writer of cultural information. He also became interested in publishing Japanese manga in the United States, though he himself was not a fan of Japanese comics until a visit to Japan in 1985 exposed him to Katsuhiro Otomo's single-volume title \"\". His idea came to fruition after he met Masahiro Ohga, then managing director of Shogakukan, in 1985 and shared his vision. Shogakukan provided Horibuchi with $200,000 in startup capital, which Horibuichi used in 1986 to found VIZ Communications.\n\nVIZ Communications released its first titles in 1987, which included \"Legend of Kamui\", however sales were mediocre due to the specialist comic market being adverse to venturing into new territory. To counteract this problem, VIZ expanded into the general publishing business and began publishing various art related books in 1992. Into these titles, Horibuchi began publishing manga, calling them graphic novels so they would be carried by mainstream bookstores. The plan worked and after several years, leading booksellers began to have dedicated shelves for manga titles. Sales also picked up when VIZ Communications acquired the license for the comedy series \"Ranma ½\", which became an instant hit.\n\nThe company continued to see success when it expanded into the anime distribution market, began publishing \"Shonen Jump\", an English adaptation of the popular Japanese magazine \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\". It also acquired another huge selling title, \"Inuyasha\". In the late 1990s, VIZ began making the push to move into the European and South American markets.\n\nWhen Shueisha became a joint owner of Viz Media in 2002, both Shogakukan and Shueisha began to release manga exclusively through Viz. Shueisha's deal with Viz may have been prompted by competition with Raijin Comics, a rival manga publisher created in 2002 by editors and artists who had split off from Shueisha, taking their properties with them. Some exceptions to this exclusivity exist, however: Shueisha permitted DC Comics's subsidiary CMX Manga to license \"Tenjho Tenge\" (although it was later re-licensed and re-released by VIZ Media) and \"Kamikaze Kaito Jeanne\", permitted Dark Horse Comics to license \"Gantz\", \"Lady Snowblood\", \"Shadow Lady\", \"The Monkey King\", and recently Yasuhiro Nightow's \"Blood Blockade Battlefront\" and CLAMP's \"Gate 7\". Shueisha also permitted Seven Seas Entertainment to license \"Hayate X Blade\" and will later permit Seven Seas Entertainment to license \"Yuuna and the Haunted Hot Springs\", and permitted Tokyopop to license \"Kodocha\", \"Marmalade Boy\" and \"Digimon Next\" and will allow Kodansha USA to license the \"Battle Angel Alita\" manga in America. Shogakukan permitted Tokyopop to license Corrector Yui, Udon Entertainment to license the \"Infini-T Force\" manga (even though Viz Media licensed the anime), the now-defunct ComicsOne to license \"Wounded Man - The White Haired Demon\", permitted Dark Horse Comics to license \"Crying Freeman\" (even though it was previously licensed by VIZ), \"New Lone Wolf and Cub\" (however, this is because Dark Horse has the original series), \"The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword\" and \"Mob Psycho 100\", and permitted Hachette Book Group's subsidiary Yen Press to license \"Azumanga Daioh\", \"Silver Spoon\", \"Karakai Jōzu no Takagi-san\", \"My Teen Romantic Comedy SNAFU\" and \"Cirque du Freak\" (however for \"Cirque du Freak\", this is because their sister company publishes the original novels. For \"Azumanga Daioh\", Yen Press's license of the manga was a month before Shogakukan reprinted the manga in May 2009, resulting in a change of license holders from ASCII Media Works (when Yen Press announced the license) to Shogakukan (when Yen Press released it). The Yen Press edition is a newly translated and lettered version of ADV Manga's edition (taken from ASCII Media Works) as opposed to the 3-volume edition by Shogakukan. Yen Press has expressed interest in releasing the 3-volume edition although editor Kurt Hassler said he is not \"sure this will be possible.\", possibly because of the fact that Shogakukan owns Viz and that they almost exclusively license their titles to them.). In March 2010, Shogakukan began a partnership with Fantagraphics Books to issue a line of manga to be edited by Matt Thorn. In 2003, possibly in response to Shogakukan and Shueisha's co-ownership of VIZ, Japanese publisher Kodansha formed a co-venture with Del Rey.\n\nIn 2004, VIZ Communications was merged with ShoPro Entertainment, funding company Shogakukan's American distribution division. Horibuchi became the new company's chairman. In 2005, Horibuchi started a related division, Viz Pictures, for releasing selected live-action films in the US to theaters and DVD.\n\nOn December 17, 2008, Viz Media announced that starting on April 1, 2009, Warner Home Video would be handling the distribution of both its new and existing catalog releases. Viz itself is still the licensor and will do all production, while tapping the distribution powerhouse that distributes the works of other major companies such as BBC, National Geographic Channel, and Cartoon Network. Viz President and CEO Hidemi Fukuhara stated that he believes the partnership will help the company grow its anime holdings more effectively.\n\nOn February 20, 2009, Viz Media laid off an unknown number of employees in order to help be more streamlined to face the current economic climate. On May 11, 2010, VIZ Media again laid off a number of workers, 60 this time, again in order to try to become more streamlined. This time they released a press release claiming that none of their current product lines would be affected.\n\nIn April 2012, it was announced that the Senior Vice-President and General Manager of Viz Media Ken Sasaki would be succeeding executive producer Hidemi Fukuhara as President and CEO; Fukuhara will subsequently take up the position of Vice-President at the end of the month.\n\nIn contrast to similar TV and film ratings, Viz also has set up certain \"manga ratings\" for their products based on their content.\n\nA (All Ages): Suitable for readers of all ages. Such titles may contain little or no objectionable content. Some, however, may contain mild language and fantasy violence but no swearing or nudity.\n\nT (Teen): 13 years or older. May be suitable for early teens and older. Such titles may contain violence, blood, use of strong language, suggestive themes or situations, crude humor, alcohol and/tobacco use, which some people may find inappropriate.\n\nT+ (Older Teen): 16 years or older. May be suitable for older teens and adults. Such titles may contain intense violence, sexual content, nudity, frequent strong language, alcohol, tobacco and/or other substance use.\n\nM (Mature Readers): Suitable for 18 years or older. Such titles may contain much more extreme violence, mature themes, and graphic depictions.\n\nDespite its name, Viz's manga ratings were also used on licensed anime titles, though, in the later 2000s, they instead relied on local countries' rating systems.\n\nViz Media was awarded the Manga Publisher of the Year Gem Award by Diamond Comic Distributors in 2007. VIZ keeps on publishing many titles, some of the most popular including: \"Dragon Ball\", \"One Piece\", \"Detective Conan\" (as \"Case Closed\"), \"Bleach\", \"Inuyasha\", and \"Naruto\" which results a high success of the company as well as a large amount of the North American readers.\n\nViz also received an award for Manga Trade Paperback of the Year for its release of the fourteenth volume of the \"Naruto\" series.\n\nBy 2002 VIZ Communications kept some publications in the original right-to-left format, while in other publications it mirrored pages from Japan's right-to-left reading format to fit the Western left-to-right reading style. During that year Dallas Middaugh, the senior marketing manager of VIZ, stated that the left-to-right version of \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" outsold the right-to-left version of \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" on a three to one basis; Middaugh concluded that readers wanted \"an easy reading experience.\" Akira Toriyama, creator of \"Dragon Ball\", requested that his work, which was separated by Viz into \"Dragon Ball\" and \"Dragon Ball Z\", be published in the original right-to-left format. \"Vagabond\" was printed in right-to-left to preserve historical accuracy. Middaugh said that younger readers of \"Dragon Ball\" adapted to the right to left format more easily than their parents.\n\nVIZ has censored some of its titles. Some titles, such as \"Dragon Ball\", were published in both censored and uncensored forms.\n\nBased in Los Angeles, Viz Productions coordinates the licenses of Japanese material (manga, books and film) to American film companies. Their goal is to involve the Japanese creators in the production and facilitate communication between all parties in the US and Japan. VIZ Productions' first film is the live action adaptation of \"All You Need is Kill\", \"Edge of Tomorrow\", starring Tom Cruise and Emily Blunt. Their second production was the American live-action adaptation to the supernatural thriller manga series: Death Note, which was directed by Adam Wingard and starred Nat Wolff, as the film's lead. Their third project will be \"Detective Pikachu\", starring Justice Smith and Ryan Reynolds.\n\nViz also has many partnerships with various authors and celebrities, perhaps the most famous being the cosplay film that debuted in the 2013 Tokyo Anime Festival with Kirata Uchiha, played by JadexRoyal. Winning multiple awards for the board including Masashi Kishimoto. Others include Full Moon, and Last Quarter.\n\n\n\nIn November 2005, New People was officially formed as a sister company for releasing live-action Japanese films as theatrical releases in selected markets called Viz Pictures. According to Horibuchi, the company will focus on films that focus on the \"Japanese 'kawaii (cute) and cool' pop culture.\" In 2007, the division released seven films to theaters, including \"\" and \"Honey and Clover\". DVD releases for all VIZ Pictures films are distributed exclusively by its parent, VIZ Media. Viz Pictures renamed themselves to New People and no longer shares office space or employees with Viz Media. Viz Media no longer distributes DVD and Blu-ray releases of their products.\n\nIn August 2009, Viz Pictures (now known as New People and a separate entity from Viz Media) opened a three-story entertainment complex in San Francisco called New People. The center piece of the complex is a 143-seat movie theater that screens anime and Japanese live-action films. The center also has a cafe, a store selling anime and manga related items, and clothing stores offering Japanese clothing items.\n\nEstablished in October 2012, Neon Alley is Viz's online anime streaming service.\n\n\"Animerica\" is a quarterly anime and manga digest that initially started as a monthly magazine featuring reviews of anime and manga titles, as well as related works. After a preview issue was released in November 1992, the magazine's first issue was released in February 1993 with a March 1993 cover date. The magazine originally featured articles and reviews on manga, anime, and related media, as well as manga preview chapters. In 1998, \"Animerica Extra\" was launched as a manga anthology that eventually focused specifically on \"shōjo\" titles. It was canceled in 2004.\n\nVIZ changed the magazine's format in April 2005, with the new magazine really being two free publications of the same name. One is advertising-oriented and created specially for distribution at anime and manga conventions while the other is more general in scope and distributed through retail stores. Both versions have fewer and briefer articles and a lower page count. The last monthly issue of the original format \"Animerica\" had a cover date of June 2005 (Volume 13, No. 6).\n\n\"Animurica\" was one of the first professional anime and manga magazines released in the United States, and one of the most popular in the 1990s. In 2004, it had a circulation of 45,000 readers, but low sales and high competition from \"Newtype USA\" resulted in the essential cancellation of the original magazine and its reformatting as a free digest.\n\n\"Game On! USA\" was a monthly magazine that focused primarily on Japanese-developed video games, with an emphasis on the import scene. It served as the American counterpart to Shogakukan's \"Game On!\" magazine. It was published in May 1996 and ran for 7 monthly issues before being discontinued that same year in November. The magazine had news and reviews and other articles about classic fighting games like \"Street Fighter\", \"Samurai Shodown\" and \"Virtua Fighter\". Two video game-based manga series, \"Super Street Fighter II: Cammy\" by Masahiko Nakahira, and \"Samurai Shodown\" by Kyoichi Nanatsuki and Yuki Miyoshi, were serialized in the magazine. A one shot story based on \"Battle Arena Toshinden\", illustrated by the game's character designer Tsukasa Kotobuki was published in the magazine as well.\n\nManga Vizion, sometimes misspelled Manga Vision, is a manga anthology introduced by VIZ in 1995. It is believed to be the first manga anthology published in the United States. The premiere issue was dated March 1995 and featured three series: \"The Tragedy of P\", \"\", and \"Ogre Slayer\". It ran for four years until it was canceled in 1999.\n\nPulp was a monthly manga anthology introduced by Viz in 1997. The magazine featured more mature titles, marketed at adults rather than teenage readers. Some of titles serialized in the magazine included: \"Uzumaki\", \"Banana Fish\", and \"Dance Till Tomorrow\". The magazine was canceled in 2002.\n\n\"Shonen Jump\" is a shōnen manga anthology that debuted in November 2002, with a January 2003 cover date. Based on the popular Japanese anthology \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\", published by Shueisha, \"Shonen Jump\" is retooled for English readers and the American audience and is published monthly, instead of weekly. It features serialized chapters from seven manga series, and articles on Japanese language and culture, as well as manga, anime, video games, and figurines. In conjunction with the magazine, Viz launched new imprints for releasing media related to the series presented in the magazine, and other shōnen works. This includes two new manga imprints, an anime DVD imprint, a fiction line for releasing light novels, a label for fan and data books, and a label for the release of art books.\n\nPrior to the magazine's launch, Viz launched an extensive marketing campaign to promote the magazine and help it succeed where other manga anthologies in North America have failed. Shueisha purchased an equity interest in Viz to help fund the venture, and Cartoon Network, Suncoast, and Diamond Distributors became promotional partners in the magazine. The first issue required three printings to meet demand, with over 300,000 copies sold. It was awarded the ICv2 \"Comic Product of the Year\" award in December 2002, and has continued to enjoy high sales with a monthly circulation of 215,000 in 2008.\n\n\"Shojo Beat\" was a shōjo manga magazine Viz launched in June 2005 as a sister magazine for \"Shonen Jump\". It featured serialized chapters from six manga series as well as articles on Japanese culture, manga, anime, fashion and beauty. Viz launched related \"Shojo Beat\" imprints in its manga, light novel, and anime divisions to coordinate with the magazine's contents.\n\nTargeted at women ages 16–18, the first issue of \"Shojo Beat\" launched with a circulation of 20,000 copies. By 2007, average circulation was approximately 38,000 copies. Half of its circulation came from subscriptions rather than store sales. In May 2009, the magazine was discontinued after 49 issues, with the July 2009 issue being the last released. Viz stated the \"difficult economic climate\" was behind the magazine's cancellation, and that it would continue releasing the magazine's titles, as well as others, using the \"Shojo Beat\" imprint.\n\nIn January 2009, Viz Media announced plans to launch a Japanese science fiction novel line called Haikasoru. The first novels were scheduled to be released in the summer of the same year, with four novels: \"The Lord of the Sands of Time\" by Issui Ogawa, \"ZOO\" by Otsuichi, \"All You Need Is Kill\" by Hiroshi Sakurazaka, and \"Usurper of the Sun\" by Hōsuke Nojiri. In addition, the imprint released an expanded edition of Kōshun Takami's \"Battle Royale\". In 2010, the imprint release Project Itoh's novel \"Harmony\", which later won a Special Citation Philip K. Dick Award. The imprint is distributed to trade by Simon & Schuster.\n\nIn October 2011, Viz Media launched the yaoi imprint SuBLime in collaboration with the Japanese yaoi publisher Libre and its parent company Animate to publish English-language yaoi manga for the print and worldwide digital market. Although the first slate of books announced under SuBLime are Libre titles, the imprint will potentially offer titles from other Japanese publishers in the future. VIZ Media's Vice President of Publishing Leyla Aker stated that SuBLime is not an imprint of VIZ but a partnership between VIZ and Animate. In March 2016, Viz Media announced that they are collaborating with United Talent Agency on their live action projects based on anime series.\n\n\n† - New volumes currently being released\n\n†† - Series not published in entirety\n\n††† - Yen Press has the rights to series' digital release due to being a Square Enix title.\n\n\n†† - Series not published in entirety\n\n\n† - Not currently dubbed or released outside of streaming\n\nFor a period VIZ offered an e-mail service called VIZ Mail. In the first two weeks of service it had 1,000 members. The service allowed users to use stationery and letterheads decorated with characters from VIZ Media properties.\n\nDespite the fact that Viz Media's licensed distribution territory includes Canada, the company has been criticized for not providing online anime simulcasts to that country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2128629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128629", "title": "Waldorf Statement", "text": "Waldorf Statement\n\nThe Waldorf Statement was a two-page press release issued on December 3, 1947, by Eric Johnston, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, following a closed-door meeting by forty-eight motion picture company executives at New York City's Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. The Statement was a response to the contempt of Congress charges against the so-called \"Hollywood Ten\".\n\nThe names of the forty-eight men who attended the meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel Waldorf were printed in the \"Motion Picture Herald\" and \"Daily Variety\", the film industry's primary trade publications. The principal participants who formulated the Waldorf Statement included:\nThe Waldorf Statement:\n\n\"Members of the Association of Motion Picture Producers deplore the action of the 10 Hollywood men who have been cited for contempt by the House of Representatives. We do not desire to prejudge their legal rights, but their actions have been a disservice to their employers and have impaired their usefulness to the industry.\n\nWe will forthwith discharge or suspend without compensation those in our employ, and we will not re-employ any of the 10 until such time as he is acquitted or has purged himself of contempt and declares under oath that he is not a Communist.\n\nOn the broader issue of alleged subversive and disloyal elements in Hollywood, our members are likewise prepared to take positive action.\n\nWe will not knowingly employ a Communist or a member of any party or group which advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States by force or by any illegal or unconstitutional methods.\n\nIn pursuing this policy, we are not going to be swayed by hysteria or intimidation from any source. We are frank to recognize that such a policy involves danger and risks. There is the danger of hurting innocent people. There is the risk of creating an atmosphere of fear. Creative work at its best cannot be carried on in an atmosphere of fear. We will guard against this danger, this risk, this fear.\n\nTo this end we will invite the Hollywood talent guilds to work with us to eliminate any subversives: to protect the innocent; and to safeguard free speech and a free screen wherever threatened.\n\nThe absence of a national policy, established by Congress, with respect to the employment of Communists in private industry makes our task difficult. Ours is a nation of laws. We request Congress to enact legislation to assist American industry to rid itself of subversive, disloyal elements.\n\nNothing subversive or un-American has appeared on the screen, nor can any number of Hollywood investigations obscure the patriotic services of the 30,000 loyal Americans employed in Hollywood who have given our government invaluable aid to war and peace.\"\n"}
{"id": "51256883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51256883", "title": "William P. Ragsdale", "text": "William P. Ragsdale\n\nWilliam Phileppus Ragsdale ( – November 24, 1877) was a lawyer, newspaper editor, and translator of the Kingdom of Hawaii and popular figure known famously for being \"luna\" or superintendent of the leper colony of Kalaupapa. Elements of his life story influenced Mark Twain's 1889 novel \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\".\n\nRagsdale was born in 1837, a \"hapa-haole\" or half-Hawaiian, half-Caucasian. His father Alexander Ragsdale was an American plantation owner originally from Virginia who had settled in Hawaii in 1817 and married Kahawaluokalani (Kahawalu), a minor Hawaiian chiefess and a descendant of King Kekaulike of Maui and his wife Kahawalu. His siblings were Edward Alexander Ragsdale (1839–1863) and Annie Green Ragsdale Dowsett (1842–1891), who married James Isaac Dowsett. He was considered a distant relative or cousin of Queen Emma.\n\nFrom 1861 to 1865, Ragsdale served as the first editor of \"Ka Nupepa Kūʻokoʻa\" (\"The Independent Newspaper\") for publisher Henry Martyn Whitney. After four years, he was replaced by missionary descendant Luther Halsey Gulick, Sr. in 1865. His Roman Catholic faith was a probable reason why he was replaced, since the Hawaiian Congregationalists wished to have a newspaper more favorable to them. In 1866, Ragsdale was working as a government translator and interpreter for the Hawaiian legislature. American writer Mark Twain visited the island kingdom at the time and described the legislative session and Ragsdale\":\n\nBill Ragsdale stands up in front of the Speaker's pulpit, with his back against it, and fastens his quick black eye upon any member who rises, lets him say half a dozen sentences and then interrupts him, and repeats his speech in a loud, rapid voice, turning every Kanaka speech into English and every English speech into Kanaka, with a readiness and felicity of language that are remarkable – waits for another installment of talk from the member's lips and goes on with his translation as before. His tongue is in constant motion from 11 in the forenoon till four in the afternoon, and why it does not wear out is the affair of Providence, not mine. There is a spice of deviltry in the fellow's nature and it crops out every now and then when he is translating the speeches of slow old Kanakas who do not understand English. Without departing from the spirit of a member's remarks, he will, with apparent unconsciousness, drop in a little voluntary contribution occasionally in the way of a word or two that will make the gravest speech utterly ridiculous. He is careful not to venture upon such experiments, though, with the remarks of persons able to detect him. I noticed when he translated for His Excellency David Kalakaua, who is an accomplished English scholar, he asked, \"Did I translate you correctly, your Excellency?\" or something to that effect. The rascal.\n\nIn early 1873, Ragsdale was practicing law in Hilo when he contracted leprosy. Working late one night, he accidentally knocked over an oil lamp and discovered that he felt no pain in his hands when he caught it before it fell. After the realization, Ragsdale contemplated his choices for a few months, then surrendered himself to the local authority in hope that others would be encouraged to do the same. He was sent to Kalihi Hospital in Honolulu where he was officially diagnosed with leprosy, and sent to the leper settlement at Kalaupapa, on the island of Molokai. Ragsdale arrived at Kalaupapa on June 29, 1873.\n\nUpon his arrival in the settlement, he worked as a translator and wrote letters to the government in Honolulu and the Board of Health complaining about the negligence of the incumbent \"luna\" (superintendent) Jonatana Napela in enforcing the Board's demands for rigid segregation of lepers and non-lepers in the settlement. He served as a mediator between the Board and the inmates, and assisted in improving the discipline and economy of the settlement. These actions gained him favors back in Honolulu. In October, 1873, Napela was discharged by the Board, and Ragsdale was promoted to the position of \"luna\" of Kalaupapa. He was referred to as \"Governor\", and later posthumous accounts called him \"King of the Lepers\".\n\nRagsdale's restrictive policies and the limited resources provided by the Hawaiian government angered many of the patients. Peter Kaʻeo, a high-born chief and patient of the settlement, wrote that \"since [Ragsdale] has been Luna he has made more Enemyes and less friends\". In Honolulu, the government and press were much more supportive of his policies, with \"The Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" stating that \"Ragsdale guides and regulates his little principality in most matters of government, quite as absolutely and undisputedly as the captain of a ship whose word is law\". Except for a few confrontations with disgruntled patients, Ragsdale's tenure as \"luna\" remained relatively peaceful until his final illness.\n\nIn the fall of 1877, Ragsdale's condition worsened, and he died on November 24, 1877. Ragsdale was buried in an unmarked grave in the cemetery grounds of Saint Philomena Catholic Church, founded by Father Damien. He was mourned at home and abroad, with newspapers in Hawaii and the United States reporting on his death. Even \"The New York Times\" ran a story on the death of the \"King of the Lepers\". His obituary in Honoulu's \"The Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" noted: \nFather Damien (who had been at Kalaupapa as long as Ragsdale) was chosen briefly to replace him, but his unpopularity with the Protestant patients led to his being replaced by William Keolaloa Sumner, who had served as an assistant under Ragsdale. \n\nHis friend Mark Twain later returned to writing a fictional story based on Ragsdale's life which was never finished, although elements of the story were incorporated into Twain's \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50061050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50061050", "title": "Women of Honor", "text": "Women of Honor\n\nWomen of Honor is a term used by Ring of Honor (ROH) to refer to its female talent. The term is applied universally to wrestlers, backstage interviewers, and managers/valets.\n\nROH had its first women's match on June 22, 2002 at its \"Road to the Title\" show. It saw Sumie Sakai defeat Simply Luscious. Women's wrestling in ROH had been sporadic since then. ROH featured female stars like Sara Del Rey, Daizee Haze, and others on shows, even releasing a DVD featuring Del Rey, Haze, Amazing Kong, Mickie James, MsChif, Lacey, and others. Some of these matches were featured on ROH's television program on HDNet and, later, on its syndicated show, but ROH did not consistently brand women's matches as Women of Honor until 2015.\n\nThe popularity of women in Ring of Honor has resulted in Ring of Honor taping a pilot for a standalone Women of Honor program. Ring of Honor has also made numerous Women of Honor branded merchandise available for purchase. The pilot aired as a Women of Honor-branded television special the weekend of June 25, 2016 and its success led to a Women of Honor taping that is available on DVD.\n\nCurrently, Ring of Honor regularly airs and promotes Women of Honor matches on their YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter platforms. As of June 2018, the only two videos to receive 3 million or more views on Ring of Honor's YouTube page are Women of Honor matches, both featuring regular Women of Honor competitor, \"The Gatekeeper\" Kelly Klein. \n\nMatches are called and presented by Ian Riccaboni. He has been joined by Taeler Hendrix, Mandy Leon, Veda Scott, Matt Taven and B.J. Whitmer for YouTube exclusives and Nigel McGuinness for the two Women of Honor television specials.\n\nIn February 2017, ROH partnered with Japanese promotion World Wonder Ring Stardom for a Women of Honor tryout camp.\n\nSo far there have been three televised specials.\n\nOn December 15, 2017, ROH announced the creation of the Women of Honor Championship, with the inaugural champion to be crowned in 2018. Prior to the creation of the title, the Shimmer Championship had been defended and recognized in ROH rings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17143612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17143612", "title": "World Atlas of Language Structures", "text": "World Atlas of Language Structures\n\nThe World Atlas of Language Structures (WALS) is a database of structural (phonological, grammatical, lexical) properties of languages gathered from descriptive materials. It was first published by Oxford University Press as a book with CD-ROM in 2005, and was released as the second edition on the Internet in April 2008. It is maintained by the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology and by the Max Planck Digital Library. The editors are Martin Haspelmath, Matthew S. Dryer, David Gil and Bernard Comrie.\n\nThe atlas provides information on the location, linguistic affiliation and basic typological features of a great number of the world's languages. It interacts with Google Maps. The information of the atlas is published under a Creative Commons license.\n\n\n"}
