{"id": "5911908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5911908", "title": "Abd Manaf (name)", "text": "Abd Manaf (name)\n\nAbd Manaf is a theophoric Arabic name that means \"servant of Manaf\", Manaf being one of the pre-Islamic polytheistic gods. In modern usage the form Abdul Manaf is also found.\n\nAbd Manaf may refer to:AbdManaf\n\n"}
{"id": "48492824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48492824", "title": "Alfonso Agra", "text": "Alfonso Agra\n\nAlfonso Agra Tato is a Spanish actor. He is very active in some of the most popular Galician television series and has also starred in various films spoken in both Spanish and Galician, most notably Wedding Days and A esmorga.\n\nHe is also well known for his voice acting work, providing the voices for Freeza and Kami in the Galician dub of Dragon Ball Z Kai as well as the voice for Cell in Galicia's Dragon Ball GT dub.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13644146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13644146", "title": "Allen Wright", "text": "Allen Wright\n\n\"For the Bicktertonite figure see Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite)\"\nAllen Wright (1826–1885) was Principal chief of the Choctaw from late 1866 to 1870. He also became a Presbyterian minister after graduating from Union Theological Seminary in New York City. He was very active in the Choctaw government, holding several elected positions, and has been credited with the name \"Oklahoma\" (Choctaw word meaning \"Home of the Red Man\" in English) for the land that would become the state.\n\nAfter serving in the Confederate Army during the Civil War, Wright was elected as Principal Chief from 1866 to 1870. He then became superintendent of schools for the Choctaw Nation from 1880 to 1884.\n\nAllen Wright was born in Attala County, Mississippi in November 1826. A member of the Choctaw Nation, his birth name was \"Kilihote\". His father was named \"Ishtemahilvbi\" and his mother a full-blood Choctaw, who died in June 1832. The father and surviving members of the family left Mississippi in October 1833 and arrived in what is now McCurtain County, Oklahoma in March 1834. According to a biography published by the \"Chronicles of Oklahoma\", his father died in 1839. He went to live with Reverend Cyrus Kingsbury near Doaksville, went to a mission school at Pine Ridge. After four years, he entered Spencer Academy, the main Choctaw tribal school. where he studied from 1844 to 1848. He was given the name Allen Wright. The surname honored Reverend Alfred Wright, a noted Presbyterian missionary to the Choctaws.\n\nAfter four years at Spencer, he was one of four students chosen by the Choctaw Council to attend college in an eastern state of the United States. Wright attended Delaware College in Newark, Delaware from 1848 to 1850, when the school closed. then enrolled at Union College in Schenectady, New York, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts in July 1852 and joined a fraternity. In September 1852 he entered Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where he received a Master of Arts degree in Theology in May 1855. He was the first Native American student from Indian Territory to earn this degree. After graduation from the seminary he was ordained as a minister by the Presbyterian Church. He returned to the Choctaw Nation and became the principal instructor at Armstrong Academy during the 1855–1856 school term.\n\nEarly in his life, Allen was not knowledgeable about Christianity. Exposure to missionaries, especially Presbyterians, caused him to learn more about the subject. Initially, he was skeptical, but in April 1846, he joined the Presbyterian Church. He began later to consider a career in the ministry and ultimately went to seminary.\n\nHe married Harriet Newell Mitchell of Ohio on February 11, 1857. She was born December 16, 1844 in Dayton, Ohio. The Presbyterian Board of Missions sent her to the Choctaw Nation in 1855. There she met and married Allen Wright. They had eight children together. One son was Eliphalet Nott Wright (1858–1932), who became a medical doctor and also served as president of the Choctaw Oil Company. Muriel Hazel Wright, noted Oklahoma author and historian, was a granddaughter of Allen and Harriet.\n\nWright became a member of the Choctaw Council in 1856. He was elected treasurer of the Choctaw Nation in 1859, and a member of the Choctaw Council in 1861. According to the \"Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History and Culture\", he was elected to two terms in the Choctaw House of Representatives and to three terms as treasurer of the Choctaw Nation. Wright signed the 1861 treaty that allied the Choctaw Nation with the Confederate States of America. Subsequently, he joined the Confederate Army.\n\nOn July 25, 1862, Wright joined Captain Wilkin's Company of Choctaw infantry on July 25, 1862. He was transferred to Company F of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Mounted Rifles on June 13, 1863. When the war ended, Choctaw Chief Peter Pitchlynn sent him as a delegate to the Fort Smith conference where an armistice was signed.\n\nWright was elected Principal Chief of the Choctaw Tribe in 1866, and served until 1870. Some of his major accomplishments included:\n\nWright represented the Choctaw Nation at the Fort Smith Council and signed the Reconstruction Treaty of 1866. When the Federal commissioners proposed to consolidate all of Indian Territories tribes under an intertribal council, he suggested the term \"Oklahoma\" as the name for the Territory.\n\nIn 1885, he also served as editor and translator of the \"Indian Champion\" and was a charter member of the first Masonic lodge in Oklahoma. He was also a member of the Royal Arch Masons in Maryland, which he had joined in 1866.\n\nWright was superintendent of schools for the Choctaw Nation from 1880 to 1884.\n\nWright died in Boggy Depot, Indian Territory on December 2, 1885. He was buried in the Boggy Depot cemetery. His widow died December 25, 1894 in the town of Atoka. She was also buried in Boggy Depot.\n"}
{"id": "47661015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47661015", "title": "Amara (singer)", "text": "Amara (singer)\n\nTuwuh Adijatitesih Amaranggana (born 8 July 1975) is an Indonesian actress, model, and singer better known as Amara or Mara.\n\nAmara was born in Jakarta, on 8 July 1975. She was a teenager in 1989, when she started her career as a model for the Indonesian fashion magazine Covergirl. Her mother, Itje Komar, works as a producer for a recording studio called \"Bintang Gemilang Jaya Sakti\" in Jakarta.\n\nIn 1996 she founded with Arie Widiawan, and her future husband Frans Mohede, the vocal trio, Lingua. An Indonesian musical group of country pop. Despite the great success that their group has obtained in Indonesia, the group ends in oblivion in the early 2000s. It has been said repeatedly that their decline was cause as a result of the Asian financial crisis.\n\nShe has since followed a career as an actress, having received many proposals for roles in soap operas and TV movies. She obtained her first main role in the TV series \" Mahligai Diatas Pasir \" (\" Above the Sand Castle \") with actor Adjie Massaid, or it embodied a newly installed girl Jakarta and attempts to improve his life after becoming pregnant following a rape. She is a close friend of the actress Michelle Ziudith, they already play together in the soap opera Sajadah Cinta Maryam (\" Sajadah Love Maryam \") and in Love in Paris in which she played the role of her own mother.\n\nUnder the influence of her husband, Frans Mohede, which is martial arts expert, Amara became a practitioner Muay Thai since 2002. Together, they have already, opened training centers Muay Thai to Jakarta and Bali, to help spread the sport in Indonesia.\n\nAfter living more than eight years together, Amara married the artist Frans Mohede to Hong Kong on December 1, 1999. As Indonesian law prohibits interfaith marriage since 1974, this union was to save foreign civil status to be legally recognized.\n\nMarriage has received parental disapproval of Amara who refuse to attend due to the difference in religion. Amara, is a Sunni Muslim and Mohede, is a Protestant Christian. Despite their differences they remain popular for being a couple, very tolerant and very respectful, Mohede and Amara are known to support each other, in their religious rites and practices.\n\nTheir controversial marriage then produced three children: Mahija Nathaniel Sambarana Aryantawira (born on June 8, 2004), Janitra Nathaniel Sambawikrama (born on September 8, 2006) and Rajaswa Nathaniel (born on October 17, 2008).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84541", "title": "Antiochus II Theos", "text": "Antiochus II Theos\n\nAntiochus II Theos (Greek: ; 286 – July 246 BC) was a Greek king of the Hellenistic Seleucid Empire who reigned from 261 to 246 BC. He succeeded his father Antiochus I Soter in the winter of 262–61 BC. He was the younger son of Antiochus I and princess Stratonice, the daughter of Demetrius Poliorcetes.\n\nHe inherited a state of war with Ptolemaic Egypt, the \"Second Syrian War\", which was fought along the coasts of Asia Minor, and the constant intrigues of petty despots and restless city-states in Asia Minor. Antiochus also made some attempt to get a footing in Thrace. During the war he was given the title \"Theos\" (Greek: , \"God\"), being such to the Milesians in slaying the tyrant Timarchus.\n\nDuring the time Antiochus was occupied with the war against Egypt, Andragoras, his satrap in Parthia, proclaimed independence. According to Justin's epitome of Pompeius Trogus, in Bactria, his satrap Diodotus also revolted in 255 BC, and founded the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom, which further expanded in India in 180 BC to form the Indo-Greek Kingdom (180–1 BC). Then about 238 BC, Arsaces led a revolt of the Parthians against Andragoras, leading to the foundation of the Parthian Empire. These events would have cut off communications with India. Phylarchus relays current scandals regarding his drunken banquets and liaisons with unsuitable young men.\n\nAbout this time, Antiochus made peace with Ptolemy II Philadelphus, ending the Second Syrian War. Antiochus repudiated his wife Laodice I and exiled her to Ephesus. To seal the treaty, he married Ptolemy's daughter Berenice and received an enormous dowry.\n\nDuring her stay in Ephesus, Laodice I continued numerous intrigues to become queen again. By 246 BC Antiochus had left Berenice and their infant son Antiochus, in Antioch to live again with Laodice I in Asia Minor. Laodice I took the occasion to poison Antiochus while her partisans at Antioch murdered Berenice and their infant son. Antiochus was buried in the Belevi Mausoleum.\n\nLaodice I then proclaimed Seleucus II as King. With his cousin-wife Laodice I, Antiochus had two sons: Seleucus II Callinicus, Antiochus Hierax and three daughters: Apama, Stratonice of Cappadocia and Laodice.\n\nAntiochus is mentioned in the Edicts of Ashoka, as one of the recipients of the Indian Emperor Ashoka's Buddhist proselytism:\n\nAshoka also claims that he encouraged the development of herbal medicine, for men and animals, in the territories of the Hellenistic kings:\n\nAlternatively, the Greek king mentioned in the Edict of Ashoka could also be Antiochus's father, Antiochus I Soter, who arguably had more proximity with the East.\n\n"}
{"id": "7506386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7506386", "title": "Arabella Huntington", "text": "Arabella Huntington\n\nArabella Duval Yarrington \"Belle\" Huntington (c.1851–1924) was the second wife of American railway tycoon and industrialist Collis P. Huntington, and then the second wife of Henry E. Huntington. She was once known as the richest woman in America, and as the force behind the art collection that is housed at the Huntington Library.\n\n Arabella Huntington was the second wife of Collis P. Huntington. After his death, she married his nephew Henry E. Huntington, who was also a railway magnate and the founder of the famous Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens, in San Marino, California. She had a son, Archer Milton Huntington.\n\nCompared to her famous family, information about Arabella is scarce. She was apparently born in 1850 or 1851, probably in Richmond, Virginia (see Wark, p. 312). However, in the 1921 passenger list for the ship Aquitania, sailing from Cherbourg to New York, Arabella identified herself as being born in Mobile, Alabama on February 9, 1851. Her first husband was a Mr. Worsham, of New York, who died shortly after they were married, leaving her with a young son, named Archer (some other sources have suggested that they were not actually married, but that she was his mistress). (It has also been suggested that Archer's father was actually Collis Huntington, who legally adopted the boy when he was a teenager.). In 1877 she was able to purchase some property in New York, which was later sold to John D. Rockefeller. She married Collis Huntington in 1884, in San Francisco, California, and was left a widow a second time when he died in 1900.\n\nIn 1902 Huntington gave $100,000 to General Memorial Hospital in memory of her husband to establish the first cancer research fund in the country, the Huntington Fund for Cancer Research. The hospital would become the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.\n\nIn 1913 she married Henry Huntington. They were together until her death in 1924, and both are buried on the grounds of the Huntington Library. There is also a memorial to Arabella in the west wing of the Huntington Library building, which was dedicated in 1927, the year of Henry's death.\n\nThroughout her life, Arabella was an inveterate collector of art, jewelry, antiques, and other luxury items. Her particular interests were in old masters, Medieval and Renaissance devotional images, and Louis XIV-Louis XV furniture and decorative arts. At her death, the entirety of her fortune and collections went to her son Archer, who donated many of her paintings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. These included two Rembrandts, a Vermeer, and several hundred other paintings, most of which had belonged to her husband Collis. The majority of the contents of her primary residence, including most of the artwork, on W. 57th St. were sent to auction. Many of the family's other belongings, including clothing, furniture, tapestries, and porcelain, were bequeathed to other institutions including Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut and the California Palace of the Legion of Honor art museum in San Francisco. Some are located within the collections of the Huntington Library itself, and these formed the basis of an exhibition about Arabella in the Spring of 2006 entitled \"The Belle of San Marino\". Only the small collection of Medieval and Renaissance paintings at the Huntington Library were in Arabella's own collection. They were purchased by Henry Huntington after her death from an auction set up by her son, Archer. The remainder of the objects in the 'Arabella Memorial Collection' at the Huntington were purchased after her death by Henry Huntington and are only representational of the objects she formerly owned, not the actual objects themselves.\n\nArabella Huntington's son Archer shared her love for art and culture. He was a great friend of non-profit organizations, especially museums. He was also one of the world's leading experts on Spanish poetry and was the founder of the Hispanic Society of America in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "13145110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13145110", "title": "Arguido", "text": "Arguido\n\nArguido (male, ) or arguida (female, ), normally translated \"named suspect\" or \"formal suspect\", is a status in Portuguese type legal systems, including those of Portugal, Angola and Mozambique.\nIt is given to a person whom the authorities suspect may have committed an offence.\nThis designation does not exist in certain other jurisdictions.\nIn a criminal investigation a person has to be declared an \"arguido\" prior to being arrested. Portuguese law makes a distinction between \"arguido \"and suspect.\n\nIf a person becomes an \"arguido\", they automatically gain certain rights that a witness or suspect would not have. An \"arguido\" has the right to be accompanied by a lawyer when questioned. The investigating police may ask the \"arguido\" more direct accusatory questions (the answers to which would not be admissible in court if possibly self-incriminatory and asked of a non-\"arguido\") but the \"arguido\" must be presented with whatever evidence is held against them, and unlike a witness has the right to remain silent, not to answer any question that may incriminate the person, and does not face legal action for lying.\n\nWitnesses in criminal investigations are legally bound to co-operate with the police and do not have the right to silence and face legal actions if they lie. Because of the legal advantages, some individuals apply for \"arguido\" status to be given to themselves, e.g. when it would appear that the police suspect them but are trying to use their witness status to extract as much information as possible.\n\nA person who has \"arguido\" status has not been formally accused of a crime, arrested or charged,\nand not all \"arguidos\" are subsequently charged.\nThe police may ask a court to restrict an \"arguido\"'s movement and oblige them to not leave the country.\n\"Arguidos\" cannot change their place of residence, without permission from a court.\nThere is no time limit on the status.\n\nThe status is very similar to that of being \"questioned under caution\" under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act in the United Kingdom or being questioned after being read one's \"Miranda Rights\" in the USA, specifically the right to legal representation, the liberty to refuse to answer questions, and the admissibility in court of statements taken whilst in those statuses.\n\n\"Arguido\" derives from the Latin \"arguire\" or \"arguere\". The English words \"argue\" and \"argument\" have the same etymology.\n"}
{"id": "11772808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11772808", "title": "Atika Shubert", "text": "Atika Shubert\n\nAtika Shubert is a CNN correspondent based in Berlin. She covers Germany as well as the rest of Europe for CNN. Before her promotion she was based in London. Prior to working for CNN, she was a correspondent for \"The Washington Post\" and \"The New Zealand Herald\" in Indonesia as she speaks both English and Indonesian fluently. She is a graduate of the Class of 1991 of Jakarta International School. She is an Economics graduate of Tufts University in Medford, Massachusetts. She gave birth to a son in 2009.\n\nShubert started her career with CNN as a producer in Jakarta, Indonesia, where she covered the fall of Indonesia’s President Suharto in 1998, East Timor’s transition to independence in 1999. Shubert joined CNN as a reporter for CNN's Jakarta bureau, and was appointed to the position of Tokyo correspondent in 2004. During her time reporting from Tokyo, Shubert covered a number of major news stories in Japan, including the controversial deployment of Japan's Self-Defense Forces, the Japanese hostage situation in Iraq and the verdict of Shoko Asahara (the mastermind behind the 1995 sarin gas attack in Tokyo). In the summer of 2005, Shubert reported live from Hiroshima on the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the 1945 atomic bombing for CNN's special \"Remembering Hiroshima\". She also reported on the nuclear tensions in the Korean Peninsula in 2006, after North Korea tested nuclear weapons.\n\nCNN claims that Shubert was one of the first CNN correspondents to report on the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and resulting tsunami, reporting from Aceh, Indonesia, where she was vacationing at the time. Also in Indonesia, Shubert covered a number of major new events that included the 2002 Bali bombings, the fall of Indonesian President Abdurrahman Wahid and the inauguration of President Megawati Sukarnoputri, East Timor's transition to independence, the resurgence of the Free Aceh separatist movement, the religious conflict in Ambon City and the fall of former Indonesian President Suharto and resulting reform movement. Shubert also briefly covered the Schapelle Corby verdict in Bali; however, due to the time consuming and overall expensive nature of this landmark court case, CNN eventually opted to run stock footage obtained from its Australian network affiliates instead of direct reporting. Shubert has also contributed reports from the Philippines and Singapore.\n\nFrom 2008 until 2015 Shubert was based in the CNN London bureau covering stories from around the UK and Europe. She relocated to Berlin in June 2015 to cover Germany and Europe.\n\nIn October, 2010, Shubert interviewed WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange shortly after his organization released classified US military documents related to the Iraq War. After asking him questions about internal issues related to Wikileaks itself, she began asking questions about his alleged sexual assaults. Assange stated that if this line of questioning continued, as opposed to being asked questions directly related to the leaked documents, he would leave the interview. Shubert persisted in her line of questioning, and Assange walked out of the interview.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396897", "title": "Big Four (Central Pacific Railroad)", "text": "Big Four (Central Pacific Railroad)\n\n\"The Big Four\" was the name popularly given to the famous and influential businessmen, philanthropists and railroad tycoons who built the Central Pacific Railroad, (C.P.R.R.), which formed the western portion through the Sierra Nevada and the Rocky Mountains of the First Transcontinental Railroad in the United States, built from the mid-continent at the Mississippi River to the Pacific Ocean during the middle and late 1860s. Composed of Leland Stanford, (1824–1893), Collis Potter Huntington, (1821–1900), Mark Hopkins, (1813–1878), and Charles Crocker, (1822–1888), the four themselves however, personally preferred to be known as \"The Associates.\"\n\n\nCollectively, the four philanthropically also established the Sacramento Library Association for the state capital in Sacramento, California in 1857, which later established the present Sacramento Public Library.\n\nDavid Hewes, an enterprising businessman, was called the \"maker of San Francisco\" for his work in clearing land for development. He was invited to be a part of the \"Big Four\" but declined due to the financial risks. Over his lifetime he gained and lost several fortunes.\n\nIn their time, the four men were sometimes referred to as nabobs or \"nobs,\" a reference to their wealth and influence. When the four built mansions in the same neighborhood of San Francisco, the area quickly became known as Nob Hill, a name it carries today.\n\nAmbrose Bierce lampooned the \"Big Four\" in his work \"Black Beetles in Amber\", a collection of satirical verses attacking various prominent Californians. In \"The Birth of the Rail\", \"road agents\" (bandits) Happy Hunty (Huntington), Cowboy Charley (Crocker), and Leland The Kid (Stanford), joined by minor devil Sootymug (Hopkins), give up robbing stage coaches for the much greater loot of railroad operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "17534110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17534110", "title": "Chen Qihan", "text": "Chen Qihan\n\nChen Qihan (; 24 August 1897 – 19 June 1981) was a general in the People's Liberation Army of China.\nChen was born in Xingguo, Jiangxi Province. He secretly joined the Communist Party of China in 1925.\n\nIn October 1930, Chen became the head of Teaching regiment of Red Third Army. Shortly he became the chief of staff in Red Fourth Army, and later chief of staff in Red Third Army. In March 1932, he became the chief of staff in Red First Army Group. \n\nAfter 1943, he studied at the Central Party School of CPC.\n\nIn 1945, he became the vice commander of Ji-Re-Liao Military Region, and went to Northeast. In winter of 1947, he was the vice commander of East Man (Jilin) Military Region. In summer of 1948, he became commander of Liaoning Military Region. After Liao-Shen campaign, he became the chief of staff in Northeast Military Region.\n\nIn May 1949, he was appointed as the commander of Jiangxi Military Region, and in 1952 became the chairman of Jiangxi Political Consultative Conference. \n\nHe was made a general in 1955.\n\nHe died on 19 June 1981 in Beijing.\n"}
{"id": "8133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8133", "title": "Dalai Lama", "text": "Dalai Lama\n\nDalai Lama (, ; Standard Tibetan: ཏཱ་ལའི་བླ་མ་, \"Tā la'i bla ma\" ) is a title given to spiritual leaders of the Tibetan people. They are part of the Gelug or \"Yellow Hat\" school of Tibetan Buddhism, the newest of the schools of Tibetan Buddhism. The 14th and current Dalai Lama is Tenzin Gyatso.\n\nThe Dalai Lama is also considered to be the successor in a line of tulkus who are believed to be incarnations of Avalokiteśvara, a Bodhisattva of Compassion. The name is a combination of the Mongolic word \"dalai\" meaning \"ocean\" or \"big\" (coming from Mongolian title \"Dalaiyin qan or Dalaiin khan\", translated as 'Gyatso' in Tibetan) and the Tibetan word (\"bla-ma\") meaning \"master, guru\".\n\nThe Dalai Lama figure is important for many reasons. Since the time of the fifth Dalai Lama, his personage has always been a symbol of unification of the state of Tibet, where he has represented Buddhist values and traditions. The Dalai Lama was an important figure of the Geluk tradition, which was politically and numerically dominant in Central Tibet, but his religious authority went beyond sectarian boundaries. While he had no formal or institutional role in any of the religious traditions, which were headed by their own high lamas, he was a unifying symbol of the Tibetan state, representing Buddhist values and traditions above any specific school. The traditional function of the Dalai Lama as an ecumenical figure, holding together disparate religious and regional groups, has been taken up by the present fourteenth Dalai Lama. He has worked to overcome sectarian and other divisions in the exiled community and has become a symbol of Tibetan nationhood for Tibetans both in Tibet and in exile.\n\nFrom 1642 until 1705, and from 1750 to the 1950s, the Dalai Lamas or their regents headed the Tibetan government (or Ganden Phodrang) in Lhasa which governed all or most of the Tibetan plateau with varying degrees of autonomy under the Qing Dynasty of China, up to complete sovereignty. This Tibetan government also enjoyed the patronage and protection of firstly Mongol kings of the Khoshut and Dzungar Khanates (1642–1720) and then of the emperors of the Manchu-led Qing dynasty (1720–1912). Tibet's sovereignty was later rejected, however, by both the Republic of China and the current People's Republic of China.\n\nIn Central Asian Buddhist countries, it has been widely believed for the last millennium that Avalokiteśvara, the bodhisattva of compassion, has a special relationship with the people of Tibet and intervenes in their fate by incarnating as benevolent rulers and teachers such as the Dalai Lamas. This is according to \"The Book of Kadam\", the main text of the Kadampa school, to which the First Dalai Lama, Gendun Drup, first belonged.\nIn fact, this text is said to have laid the foundation for the Tibetans' later identification of the Dalai Lamas as incarnations of Avalokiteśvara.\n\nIt traces the legend of the bodhisattva's incarnations as early Tibetan kings and emperors such as Songtsen Gampo and later as Dromtönpa (1004–1064).\n\nThis lineage has been extrapolated by Tibetans up to and including the Dalai Lamas.\n\nThus, according to such sources, an informal line of succession of the present Dalai Lamas as incarnations of Avalokiteśvara stretches back much further than Gendun Drub. \"The Book of Kadam\", the compilation of Kadampa teachings largely composed around discussions between the Indian sage Atiśa (980–1054) and his Tibetan host and chief disciple Dromtönpa and \"‘Tales of the Previous Incarnations of Arya Avalokiteśvara’\", nominate as many as sixty persons prior to Gendun Drub who are enumerated as earlier incarnations of Avalokiteśvara and predecessors in the same lineage leading up to him. In brief, these include a mythology of 36 Indian personalities plus 10 early Tibetan kings and emperors, all said to be previous incarnations of Dromtönpa, and fourteen further Nepalese and Tibetan yogis and sages in between him and the first Dalai Lama. In fact, according to the \"Birth to Exile\" article on the 14th Dalai Lama's website, he is \"the seventy-fourth in a lineage that can be traced back to a Brahmin boy who lived in the time of Buddha Shakyamuni.\"\n\nAccording to the 14th Dalai Lama, long ago Avalokiteśvara had promised the Buddha to guide and protect the Tibetan people and in the late Middle Ages, his master plan to fulfill this promise was the stage-by-stage establishment of the Dalai Lama theocracy in Tibet.\n\nFirst, Tsongkhapa established three great monasteries around Lhasa in the province of Ü before he died in 1419. The 1st Dalai Lama soon became Abbot of the greatest one, Drepung, and developed a large popular power base in Ü. He later extended this to cover Tsang, where he constructed a fourth great monastery, Tashi Lhunpo, at Shigatse. The 2nd studied there before returning to Lhasa, where he became Abbot of Drepung. Having reactivated the 1st's large popular followings in Tsang and Ü, the 2nd then moved on to southern Tibet and gathered more followers there who helped him construct a new monastery, Chokorgyel. He also established the method by which later Dalai Lama incarnations would be discovered through visions at the 'oracle lake', Lhamo Lhatso. The 3rd built on his predecessors' fame by becoming Abbot of the two great monasteries of Drepung and Sera. The stage was set for the great Mongol King Altan Khan, hearing of his reputation, to invite the 3rd to Mongolia where he converted the King and his followers to Buddhism, as well as other Mongol princes and their followers covering a vast tract of central Asia. Thus most of Mongolia was added to the Dalai Lama's sphere of influence, founding a spiritual empire which largely survives to the modern age. After being given the Mongolian name 'Dalai', he returned to Tibet to found the great monasteries of Lithang in Kham, eastern Tibet and Kumbum in Amdo, north-eastern Tibet. The 4th was then born in Mongolia as the great grandson of Altan Khan, thus cementing strong ties between Central Asia, the Dalai Lamas, the Gelugpa and Tibet. Finally, in fulfilment of Avalokiteśvara's master plan, the 5th in the succession used the vast popular power base of devoted followers built up by his four predecessors. By 1642, a strategy that was planned and carried out by his resourceful \"chagdzo\" or manager Sonam Rapten with the military assistance of his devoted disciple Gushri Khan, Chieftain of the Khoshut Mongols, enabled the 'Great 5th' to found the Dalai Lamas' religious and political reign over more or less the whole of Tibet that survived for over 300 years.\n\nThus the Dalai Lamas became pre-eminent spiritual leaders in Tibet and 25 Himalayan and Central Asian kingdoms and countries bordering Tibet and their prolific literary works have \"for centuries acted as major sources of spiritual and philosophical inspiration to more than fifty million people of these lands\". Overall, they have played 'a monumental role in Asian literary, philosophical and religious history'.\n\nGendun Drup (1391–1474), a disciple of the founder Je Tsongkapa, was the ordination name of the monk who came to be known as the 'First Dalai Lama', but only from 104 years after he died.\nThere had been resistance, since first he was ordained a monk in the Kadampa tradition and for various reasons, for hundreds of years the Kadampa school had eschewed the adoption of the \"tulku\" system to which the older schools adhered. Tsongkhapa largely modelled his new, reformed Gelugpa school on the Kadampa tradition and refrained from starting a tulku system. Therefore, although Gendun Drup grew to be a very important Gelugpa lama, after he died in 1474 there was no question of any search being made to identify his incarnation.\n\nDespite this, when the Tashilhunpo monks started hearing what seemed credible accounts that an incarnation of Gendun Drup had appeared nearby and repeatedly announced himself from the age of two, their curiosity was aroused. It was some 55 years after Tsongkhapa's death. When eventually the monastic authorities saw compelling evidence which convinced them that the child in question was indeed the incarnation of their founder, they felt obliged to break with their own tradition. In 1487, the boy was renamed Gendun Gyatso and installed at Tashilhunpo as Gendun Drup's tulku, albeit informally.\n\nGendun Gyatso died in 1542 and the lineage of Dalai Lama tulkus finally became firmly established when the third incarnation, Sonam Gyatso (1543–1588), came forth. He made himself known as the \"tulku\" of Gendun Gyatso and was formally recognised and enthroned at Drepung in 1546. When he was given the titular name \"Dalai Lama\" by the Tümed Altan Khan in 1578, it was also accorded to his last two predecessors and he became known as the third in the lineage.\n\nThe Dalai Lama lineage started from humble beginnings. 'Pema Dorje' (1391–1474), the boy who was to become the first in the line, was born in a cattle pen in Shabtod, Tsang in 1391. His nomad parents kept sheep and goats and lived in tents. When his father died in 1398 his mother was unable to support the young goatherd so she entrusted him to his uncle, a monk at Narthang, a major Kadampa monastery near Shigatse, for education as a Buddhist monk. Narthang ran the largest printing press in Tibet and its celebrated library attracted scholars and adepts from far and wide, so Pema Dorje received an education beyond the norm at the time as well as exposure to diverse spiritual schools and ideas. He studied Buddhist philosophy extensively and in 1405, ordained by Narthang's abbot, he took the name of Gendun Drup. Soon recognised as an exceptionally gifted pupil, the abbot tutored him personally and took special interest in his progress. In 12 years he passed the 12 grades of monkhood and took the highest vows. After completing his intensive studies at Narthang he left to continue at specialist monasteries in Central Tibet, his grounding at Narthang was revered among many he encountered.\n\nIn 1415 Gendun Drup met Tsongkhapa, founder of the Gelugpa school, and became his student; their meeting was of decisive historical and political significance as he was later to be known as the First Dalai Lama. When eventually Tsongkhapa's successor Khedrup Je, the Panchen Lama died, Gendun Drup became the leader of the Gelugpa. He rose to become Abbot of Drepung, the greatest Gelugpa monastery, outside Lhasa.\n\nIt was mainly due to Gendun Drup's energy and ability that Tsongkhapa's new school grew into an expanding order capable of competing with others on an equal footing. Taking advantage of good relations with the nobility and a lack of determined opposition from rival orders, on the very edge of Karma Kagyu-dominated territory he founded Tashilhunpo Monastery at Shigatse. He was based there, as its Abbot, from its founding in 1447 until his death. Tashilhunpo, 'Mountain of Blessings', became the fourth great Gelugpa monastery in Tibet, after Ganden, Drepung and Sera had all been founded in Tsongkhapa's time. It later became the seat of the Panchen Lamas.\nBy establishing it at Shigatse in the middle of Tsang, he expanded the Gelugpa sphere of influence, and his own, from the Lhasa region of Ü to this province, which was the stronghold of the Karma Kagyu school and their patrons, the rising Tsangpa dynasty. Tashilhunpo was destined to become 'Southern Tibet's greatest monastic university' with a complement of 3,000 monks.\n\nGendun Drup was said to be the greatest scholar-saint ever produced by Narthang Monastery and became 'the single most important lama in Tibet'. Through hard work he became a leading lama, known as 'Perfecter of the Monkhood', 'with a host of disciples'. Famed for his Buddhist scholarship he was also referred to as \"Panchen Gendun Drup\", 'Panchen' being an honorary title designating 'great scholar'. By the great Jonangpa master Bodong Chokley Namgyal he was accorded the honorary title \"Tamchey Khyenpa\" meaning \"The Omniscient One\", an appellation that was later assigned to all Dalai Lama incarnations.\n\nAt the age of 50, he entered meditation retreat at Narthang. As he grew older, Karma Kagyu adherents, finding their sect was losing too many recruits to the monkhood to burgeoning Gelugpa monasteries, tried to contain Gelug expansion by launching military expeditions against them in the region. This led to decades of military and political power struggles between Tsangpa dynasty forces and others across central Tibet. In an attempt to ameliorate these clashes, from his retreat Gendun Drup issued a poem of advice to his followers advising restraint from responding to violence with more violence and to practice compassion and patience instead. The poem, entitled \"Shar Gang Rima\", \"The Song of the Eastern Snow Mountains\", became one of his most enduring popular literary works.\n\nAlthough he was born in a cattle pen to be a simple goatherd, Gendun Drup thus rose to become one of the most celebrated and respected teachers in Tibet and Central Asia. His spiritual accomplishments brought him lavish donations from devotees which he used to build and furnish new monasteries, to print and distribute Buddhist texts and to maintain monks and meditators. At last, at the age of 84, older than any of his 13 successors, in 1474 he went on foot to visit Narthang Monastery on a final teaching tour. Returning to Tashilhunpo he died 'in a blaze of glory, recognised as having attained Buddhahood'.\n\nHis mortal remains were interred in a bejewelled silver stupa at Tashilhunpo, which survived the Cultural Revolution and can still be seen.\n\nLike the Kadampa, the Gelugpa eschewed the \"tulku\" system. After Gendun Drup died, however, a boy called Sangyey Pel born to Nyngma adepts at Yolkar in Tsang, declared himself at 3 to be \"Gendun Drup\" and asked to be 'taken home' to Tashilhunpo. He spoke in mystical verses, quoted classical texts out of the blue and said he was Dromtönpa, an earlier incarnation of the Dalai Lamas. When he saw monks from Tashilhunpo he greeted the disciples of the late Gendun Drup by name. The Gelugpa elders had to break with tradition and recognised him as Gendun Drup's \"tulku\".\n\nHe was then 8, but until his 12th year his father took him on his teachings and retreats, training him in all the family Nyingma lineages. At 12 he was installed at Tashilhunpo as Gendun Drup's incarnation, ordained, enthroned and renamed Gendun Gyatso Palzangpo (1475–1542).\n\nTutored personally by the abbot he made rapid progress and from 1492 at 17 he was requested to teach all over Tsang, where thousands gathered to listen and give obeisance, including senior scholars and abbots. In 1494, at 19, he met some opposition from the Tashilhunpo establishment when tensions arose over conflicts between advocates of the two types of succession, the traditional abbatial election through merit, and incarnation. Although he had served for some years as Tashilhunpo's abbot, he therefore moved to central Tibet, where he was invited to Drepung and where his reputation as a brilliant young teacher quickly grew. He was accorded all the loyalty and devotion that Gendun Drup had earned and the Gelug school remained as united as ever. This move had the effect of shifting central Gelug authority back to Lhasa. Under his leadership, the sect went on growing in size and influence and with its appeal of simplicity, devotion and austerity its lamas were asked to mediate in disputes between other rivals.\n\nGendun Gyatso's popularity in Ü-Tsang grew as he went on pilgrimage, travelling, teaching and studying from masters such as the adept Khedrup Norzang Gyatso in the Olklha mountains. He also stayed in Kongpo and Dagpo and became known all over Tibet. He spent his winters in Lhasa, writing commentaries and the rest of the year travelling and teaching many thousands of monks and lay people.\n\nIn 1509 he moved to southern Tibet to build Chokorgyel Monastery near the 'Oracle Lake', Lhamo Latso, completing it by 1511. That year he saw visions in the lake and 'empowered' it to impart clues to help identify incarnate lamas. All Dalai Lamas from the 3rd on were found with the help of such visions granted to regents. By now widely regarded as one of Tibet's greatest saints and scholars he was invited back to Tashilhunpo. On his return in 1512, he was given the residence built for Gendun Drup, to be occupied later by the Panchen Lamas. He was made abbot of Tashilhunpo and stayed there teaching in Tsang for 9 months.\n\nGendun Gyatso continued to travel widely and teach while based at Tibet's largest monastery, Drepung and became known as 'Drepung Lama', his fame and influence spreading all over Central Asia as the best students from hundreds of lesser monasteries in Asia were sent to Drepung for education.\n\nThroughout Gendun Gyatso's life, the Gelugpa were opposed and suppressed by older rivals, particularly the Karma Kagyu and their Ringpung clan patrons from Tsang, who felt threatened by their loss of influence. In 1498 the Ringpung army captured Lhasa and banned the Gelugpa annual New Year Monlam Prayer Festival started by Tsongkhapa for world peace and prosperity. Gendun Gyatso was promoted to abbot of Drepung in 1517 and that year Ringpung forces were forced to withdraw from Lhasa. Gendun Gyatso then went to the \"Gongma\" (King) Drakpa Jungne to obtain permission for the festival to be held again. The next New Year, the \"Gongma\" was so impressed by Gendun Gyatso's performance leading the Festival that he sponsored construction of a large new residence for him at Drepung, 'a monastery within a monastery'. It was called the Ganden Phodrang, a name later adopted by the Tibetan Government, and it served as home for Dalai Lamas until the Fifth moved to the Potala Palace in 1645.\n\nIn 1525, already abbot of Chokhorgyel, Drepung and Tashilhunpo, he was made abbot of Sera monastery as well, and seeing the number of monks was low he worked to increase it.\nBased at Drepung in winter and Chokorgyel in summer, he spent his remaining years in composing commentaries, regional teaching tours, visiting Tashilhunpo from time to time and acting as abbot of these four great monasteries. As abbot, he made Drepung the largest monastery in the whole of Tibet. He attracted many students and disciples 'from Kashmir to China' as well as major patrons and disciples such as \"Gongma\" Nangso Donyopa of Droda who built a monastery at Zhekar Dzong in his honour and invited him to name it and be its spiritual guide.\n\n\"Gongma\" Gyaltsen Palzangpo of Khyomorlung at Tolung and his Queen Sangyey Paldzomma also became his favourite devoted lay patrons and disciples in the 1530s and he visited their area to carry out rituals as 'he chose it for his next place of rebirth'. He died in meditation at Drepung in 1547 at 67 and his reliquary stupa was constructed at Khyomorlung. It was said that, by the time he died, through his disciples and their students, his personal influence covered the whole of Buddhist Central Asia where 'there was nobody of any consequence who did not know of him'.\n\nThe Third Dalai Lama, Sonam Gyatso (1543–1588) was born in Tolung, near Lhasa,\nas predicted by his predecessor. Claiming he was Gendun Gyatso and readily recalling events from his previous life, he was recognised as the incarnation, named 'Sonam Gyatso' and installed at Drepung, where 'he quickly excelled his teachers in knowledge and wisdom and developed extraordinary powers'. Unlike his predecessors, he came from a noble family, connected with the Sakya and the Phagmo Drupa (Karma Kagyu affiliated) dynasties, and it is to him that the effective conversion of Mongolia to Buddhism is due.\n\nA brilliant scholar and teacher, he had the spiritual maturity to be made Abbot of Drepung, taking responsibility for the material and spiritual well-being of Tibet's largest monastery at the age of nine. At 10 he led the Monlam Prayer Festival, giving daily discourses to the assembly of all Gelugpa monks. His influence grew so quickly that soon the monks at Sera Monastery also made him their Abbot and his mediation was being sought to prevent fighting between political power factions. At 16, in 1559, he was invited to Nedong by King Ngawang Tashi Drakpa, a Karma Kagyu supporter, and became his personal teacher. At 17, when fighting broke out in Lhasa between Gelug and Kagyu parties and efforts by local lamas to mediate failed, Sonam Gyatso negotiated a peaceful settlement. At 19, when the Kyichu River burst its banks and flooded Lhasa, he led his followers to rescue victims and repair the dykes. He then instituted a custom whereby on the last day of Monlam, all the monks would work on strengthening the flood defences. Gradually, he was shaping himself into a national leader. His popularity and renown became such that in 1564 when the Nedong King died, it was Sonam Gyatso at the age of 21 who was requested to lead his funeral rites, rather than his own Kagyu lamas.\n\nRequired to travel and teach without respite after taking full ordination in 1565, he still maintained extensive meditation practices in the hours before dawn and again at the end of the day. In 1569, at age 26, he went to Tashilhunpo to study the layout and administration of the monastery built by his predecessor Gendun Drup. Invited to become the Abbot he declined, already being Abbot of Drepung and Sera, but left his deputy there in his stead. From there he visited Narthang, the first monastery of Gendun Drup and gave numerous discourses and offerings to the monks in gratitude.\n\nMeanwhile, Altan Khan, chief of all the Mongol tribes near China's borders, had heard of Sonam Gyatso's spiritual prowess and repeatedly invited him to Mongolia. By 1571, when Altan Khan received a title of Shunyi Wang (King) from the Ming dynasty of China and swore allegiance to Ming, although he remained de-facto quite independent, he had fulfilled his political destiny and a nephew advised him to seek spiritual salvation, saying that \"in Tibet dwells Avalokiteshvara\", referring to Sonam Gyatso, then 28 years old. China was also happy to help Altan Khan by providing necessary translations of holy scripture, and also lamas. At the second invitation, in 1577–78 Sonam Gyatso travelled 1,500 miles to Mongolia to see him. They met in an atmosphere of intense reverence and devotion and their meeting resulted in the re-establishment of strong Tibet-Mongolia relations after a gap of 200 years.\nTo Altan Khan, Sonam Gyatso identified himself as the incarnation of Drogön Chögyal Phagpa, and Altan Khan as that of Kubilai Khan, thus placing the Khan as heir to the Chingizid lineage whilst securing his patronage.\nAltan Khan and his followers quickly adopted Buddhism as their state religion, replacing the prohibited traditional Shamanism.\nMongol law was reformed to accord with Tibetan Buddhist law. From this time Buddhism spread rapidly across Mongolia and soon the Gelugpa had won the spiritual allegiance of most of the Mongolian tribes.\nAs proposed by Sonam Gyatso, Altan Khan sponsored the building of Thegchen Chonkhor Monastery at the site of Sonam Gyatso's open-air teachings given to the whole Mongol population. He also called Sonam Gyatso \"Dalai\", Mongolian for 'Gyatso' (Ocean).\n\nThe name \"Dalai Lama\", by which the lineage later became known throughout the non-Tibetan world, was thus established and it was applied to the first two incarnations retrospectively.\n\nReturning eventually to Tibet by a roundabout route and invited to stay and teach all along the way, in 1580 Sonam Gyatso was in Hohhot [or Ningxia], not far from Beijing, when the Chinese Emperor invited him to his court.\nBy then he had established a religious empire of such proportions that it was unsurprising the Emperor wanted to invite him and grant him a diploma.\nAt the request of the Ningxia Governor he had been teaching large gatherings of people from East Turkestan, Mongolia and nearby areas of China, with interpreters provided by the governor for each language. While there, a Ming court envoy came with gifts and a request to visit the Wanli Emperor but he declined having already agreed to visit Eastern Tibet next. Once there, in Kham, he founded two more great Gelugpa monasteries, the first in 1580 at Lithang where he left his representative before going on to Chamdo Monastery where he resided and was made Abbot. Through Altan Khan, the 3rd Dalai Lama requested to pay tribute to the Emperor of China in order to raise his State Tutor ranking, the Ming imperial court of China agreed with the request. In 1582, he heard Altan Khan had died and invited by his son Dhüring Khan he decided to return to Mongolia. Passing through Amdo, he founded a second great monastery, Kumbum, at the birthplace of Tsongkhapa near Kokonor. Further on, he was asked to adjudicate on border disputes between Mongolia and China. It was the first time a Dalai Lama had exercised such political authority.\nArriving in Mongolia in 1585, he stayed 2 years with Dhüring Khan, teaching Buddhism to his people and converting more Mongol princes and their tribes. Receiving a second invitation from the Emperor in Beijing he accepted, but died en route in 1588.\n\nFor a lifetime of only 45 years, his accomplishments were impressive and some of the most important ones were due to his relationship with Altan Khan. As he was dying, his Mongolian converts urged him not to leave them, as they needed his continuing religious leadership. He promised them he would be incarnated next in Mongolia, as a Mongolian.\n\nThe Fourth Dalai Lama, Yonten Gyatso (1589–1617) was a Mongolian, the great-grandson of Altan Khan who was a descendant of Kublai Khan and King of the Tümed Mongols who had already been converted to Buddhism by the Third Dalai Lama, Sonam Gyatso (1543–1588). This strong connection caused the Mongols to zealously support the Gelugpa sect in Tibet, strengthening their status and position but also arousing intensified opposition from the Gelugpa's rivals, particularly the Tsang Karma Kagyu in Shigatse and their Mongolian patrons and the Bönpo in Kham and their allies. Being the newest school, unlike the older schools the Gelugpa lacked an established network of Tibetan clan patronage and were thus more reliant on foreign patrons. At the age of 10 with a large Mongol escort he travelled to Lhasa where he was enthroned. He studied at Drepung and became its abbot but being a non-Tibetan he met with opposition from some Tibetans, especially the Karma Kagyu who felt their position was threatened by these emerging events; there were several attempts to remove him from power. Yonten Gyatso died at the age of 27 under suspicious circumstances and his chief attendant Sonam Rapten went on to discover the 5th Dalai Lama, became his \"chagdzo\" or manager and after 1642 he went on to be his regent, the Desi.\n\nThe death of the Fourth Dalai Lama in 1617 led to open conflict breaking out between various parties. Firstly, the Tsangpa dynasty, rulers of Central Tibet from Shigatse, supporters of the Karmapa school and rivals to the Gelugpa, forbade the search for his incarnation. However, in 1618 Sonam Rabten, the former attendant of the 4th Dalai Lama who had become the Ganden Phodrang treasurer, secretly identified the child, who had been born to the noble Zahor family at Tagtse castle, south of Lhasa. Then, the Panchen Lama, in Shigatse, negotiated the lifting of the ban, enabling the boy to be recognised as Lobsang Gyatso, the 5th Dalai Lama.\n\nAlso in 1618, the Tsangpa King, Karma Puntsok Namgyal, whose Mongol patron was Choghtu Khong Tayiji of the Khalkha Mongols, attacked the Gelugpa in Lhasa to avenge an earlier snub and established two military bases there to control the monasteries and the city. This caused Sonam Rabten who became the 5th Dalai Lama's \"changdzo\" or manager, to seek more active Mongol patronage and military assistance for the Gelugpa while the Fifth was still a boy. So, in 1620, Mongol troops allied to the Gelugpa who had camped outside Lhasa suddenly attacked and destroyed the two Tsangpa camps and drove them out of Lhasa, enabling the Dalai Lama to be brought out of hiding and publicly enthroned there in 1622.\n\nIn fact, throughout the 5th's minority, it was the influential and forceful Sonam Rabten who inspired the Dzungar Mongols to defend the Gelugpa by attacking their enemies. These enemies included other Mongol tribes who supported the Tsangpas, the Tsangpa themselves and their Bönpo allies in Kham who had also opposed and persecuted Gelugpas. Ultimately, this strategy led to the destruction of the Tsangpa dynasty, the defeat of the Karmapas and their other allies and the Bönpos, by armed forces from the Lhasa valley aided by their Mongol allies, paving the way for Gelugpa political and religious hegemony in Central Tibet. Apparently by general consensus, by virtue of his position as the Dalai Lama's \"changdzo\" (chief attendant, minister), after the Dalai Lama became absolute ruler of Tibet in 1642 Sonam Rabten became the \"Desi\" or \"Viceroy\", in fact, the \"de facto\" regent or day-to-day ruler of Tibet's governmental affairs. During these years and for the rest of his life (he died in 1658), \"there was little doubt that politically Sonam Chophel [Rabten] was more powerful than the Dalai Lama\". As a young man, being 22 years his junior, the Dalai Lama addressed him reverentially as \"Zhalngo\", meaning \"the Presence\".\n\nDuring the 1630s Tibet was deeply entangled in rivalry, evolving power struggles and conflicts, not only between the Tibetan religious sects but also between the rising Manchus and the various rival Mongol and Oirat factions, who were also vying for supremacy amongst themselves and on behalf of the religious sects they patronised. For example, Ligdan Khan of the Chahars, a Mongol subgroup who supported the Tsang Karmapas, after retreating from advancing Manchu armies headed for Kokonor intending destroy the Gelug. He died on the way, in 1634 but his vassal Choghtu Khong Tayiji, continued to advance against the Gelugpas, even having his own son Arslan killed after Arslan changed sides, submitted to the Dalai Lama and become a Gelugpa monk. By the mid-1630s, thanks again to the efforts of Sonam Rabten, the 5th Dalai Lama had found a powerful new patron in Güshi Khan of the Khoshut Mongols, a subgroup of the Dzungars, who had recently migrated to the Kokonor area from Dzungaria. He attacked Choghtu Khong Tayiji at Kokonor in 1637 and defeated and killed him, thus eliminating the Tsangpa and the Karmapa's main Mongol patron and protector.\n\nNext, Donyo Dorje, the Bönpo king of Beri in Kham was found writing to the Tsangpa king in Shigatse to propose a co-ordinated 'pincer attack' on the Lhasa Gelugpa monasteries from east and west, seeking to utterly destroy them once and for all. The intercepted letter was sent to Güshi Khan who used it as a pretext to invade central Tibet in 1639 to attack them both, the Bönpo and the Tsangpa. By 1641 he had defeated Donyo Dorje and his allies in Kham and then he marched on Shigatse where after laying siege to their strongholds he defeated Karma Tenkyong, broke the power of the Tsang Karma Kagyu in 1642 and ended the Tsangpa dynasty.\n\nGüshi Khan's attack on the Tsangpa was made on the orders of Sonam Rapten while being publicly and robustly opposed by the Dalai Lama, who, as a matter of conscience, out of compassion and his vision of tolerance for other religious schools, refused to give permission for more warfare in his name after the defeat of the Beri king. Sonam Rabten deviously went behind his master's back to encourage Güshi Khan, to facilitate his plans and to ensure the attacks took place; for this defiance of his master's wishes, Rabten was severely rebuked by the 5th Dalai Lama.\n\nAfter Desi Sonam Rapten died in 1658, the following year the 5th Dalai Lama appointed his younger brother Depa Norbu (aka Nangso Norbu) as his successor. However after a few months, Norbu betrayed him and led a rebellion against the Ganden Phodrang Government. With his accomplices he seized Samdruptse fort at Shigatse and tried to raise a rebel army from Tsang and Bhutan, but the Dalai Lama skilfully foiled his plans without any fighting taking place and Norbu had to flee. Four other Desis were appointed after Depa Norbu: Trinle Gyatso, Lozang Tutop, Lozang Jinpa and Sangye Gyatso.\n\nHaving thus defeated all the Gelugpa's rivals and resolved all regional and sectarian conflicts Güshi Khan became the undisputed patron of a unified Tibet and acted as a \"Protector of the Gelug\", establishing the Khoshut Khanate which covered almost the entire Tibetan plateau, an area corresponding roughly to 'Greater Tibet' including Kham and Amdo, as claimed by exiled groups (see maps). At an enthronement ceremony in Shigatse he conferred full sovereignty over Tibet on the Fifth Dalai Lama, unified for the first time since the collapse of the Tibetan Empire exactly eight centuries earlier. Güshi Khan then retired to Kokonor with his armies and [according to Smith] ruled Amdo himself directly thus creating a precedent for the later separation of Amdo from the rest of Tibet.\n\nIn this way, Güshi Khan established the Fifth Dalai Lama as the highest spiritual and political authority in Tibet. 'The Great Fifth' became the temporal ruler of Tibet in 1642 and from then on the rule of the Dalai Lama lineage over some, all or most of Tibet lasted with few breaks for the next 317 years, until 1959, when the 14th Dalai Lama fled to India. In 1645, the Great Fifth began the construction of the Potala Palace in Lhasa.\n\nGüshi Khan died in 1655 and was succeeded by his descendants Dayan, Tenzin Dalai Khan and Tenzin Wangchuk Khan. However, Güshi Khan's other eight sons had settled in Amdo but fought amongst themselves over territory so the Fifth Dalai Lama sent governors to rule them in 1656 and 1659, thereby bringing Amdo and thus the whole of Greater Tibet under his personal rule and Gelugpa control. The Mongols in Amdo became absorbed and Tibetanised.\n\nIn 1636 the Manchus proclaimed their dynasty as the Qing dynasty and by 1644 they had completed their conquest of China under the prince regent Dorgon. The following year their forces approached Amdo on northern Tibet, causing the Oirat and Khoshut Mongols there to submit in 1647 and send tribute. In 1648, after quelling a rebellion of Tibetans of Kansu-Xining, the Qing invited the Fifth Dalai Lama to visit their court at Beijing since they wished to engender Tibetan influence in their dealings with the Mongols. The Qing were aware the Dalai Lama had extraordinary influence with the Mongols and saw relations with the Dalai Lama as a means to facilitate submission of the Khalka Mongols, traditional patrons of the Karma Kagyu sect. Similarly, since the Tibetan Gelugpa were keen to revive a priest-patron relationship with the dominant power in China and Inner Asia, the Qing invitation was accepted. After five years of complex diplomatic negotiations about whether the emperor or his representatives should meet the Dalai Lama inside or outside the Great Wall, when the meeting would be astrologically favourable, how it would be conducted and so on, it eventually took place in Beijing in 1653. The Shunzhi Emperor was then 16 years old, having in the meantime ascended the throne in 1650 after the death of Dorgon. For the Qing, although the Dalai Lama was not required to kowtow to the emperor, who rose from his throne and advanced 30 feet to meet him, the significance of the visit was that of nominal political submission by the Dalai Lama since Inner Asian heads of state did not travel to meet each other but sent envoys. For Tibetan Buddhist historians however it was interpreted as the start of an era of independent rule of the Dalai Lamas, and of Qing patronage alongside that of the Mongols.\n\nWhen the 5th Dalai Lama returned, he was granted by the emperor of China a golden seal of authority and golden sheets with texts written in Manchurian, Tibetan and Chinese languages. The 5th Dalai Lama wanted to use the golden seal of authority right away. However, Lobzang Gyatsho noted that \"The Tibetan version of the inscription of the seal was translated by a Mongolian translator but was not a good translation\". After correction, it read: \"The one who resides in the Western peaceful and virtuous paradise is unalterable Vajradhara, Ocen Lama, unifier of the doctrines of the Buddha for all beings under the sky\". The words of the diploma ran: \"Proclamation, to let all the people of the western hemisphere know\". Tibetan historian Nyima Gyaincain points out that based on the texts written on golden sheets, Dalai Lama was only a subordinate of the Emperor of China.\n\nHowever, despite such patronising attempts by Chinese officials and historians to symbolically show for the record that they held political influence over Tibet, the Tibetans themselves did not accept any such symbols imposed on them by the Chinese with this kind of motive. For example, concerning the above-mentioned 'golden seal', the Fifth Dalai Lama comments in \"Dukula\", his autobiography, on leaving China after this courtesy visit to the emperor in 1653, that \"the emperor made his men bring a golden seal for me that had three vertical lines in three parallel scripts: Chinese, Mongolian and Tibetan\". He also criticised the words carved on this gift as being faultily translated into Tibetan, writing that \"The Tibetan version of the inscription of the seal was translated by a Mongol translator but was not a good translation\". Furthermore, when he arrived back in Tibet, he discarded the emperor's famous golden seal and made a new one for important state usage, writing in his autobiography: \"Leaving out the Chinese characters that were on the seal given by the emperor, a new seal was carved for stamping documents that dealt with territorial issues. The first imprint of the seal was offered with prayers to the image of Lokeshvara ...\".\n\nThe 17th-century struggles for domination between the Manchu-led Qing dynasty and the various Mongol groups spilled over to involve Tibet because of the Fifth Dalai Lama's strong influence over the Mongols as a result of their general adoption of Tibetan Buddhism and their consequent deep loyalty to the Dalai Lama as their guru. Until 1674, the Fifth Dalai Lama had mediated in Dzungar Mongol affairs whenever they required him to do so, and the Kangxi Emperor, who had succeeded the Shunzhi Emperor in 1661, would accept and confirm his decisions automatically. For the Kangxi Emperor however, the alliance between the Dzungar Mongols and the Tibetans was unsettling because he feared it had the potential to unite all the other Mongol tribes together against the Qing Empire, including those tribes who had already submitted. Therefore, in 1674, the Kangxi Emperor, annoyed by the Fifth's less than full cooperation in quelling a rebellion against the Qing in Yunnan, ceased deferring to him as regards Mongol affairs and started dealing with them directly.\n\nIn the same year, 1674, the Dalai Lama, then at the height of his powers and conducting a foreign policy independent of the Qing, caused Mongol troops to occupy the border post of Dartsedo between Kham and Sichuan, further annoying the Kangxi Emperor who (according to Smith) already considered Tibet as part of the Qing Empire. It also increased Qing suspicion about Tibetan relations with the Mongol groups and led him to seek strategic opportunities to oppose and undermine Mongol influence in Tibet and eventually, within 50 years, to defeat the Mongols militarily and to establish the Qing as sole 'patrons and protectors' of Tibet in their place.\n\nThe time of the Fifth Dalai Lama, who reigned from 1642 to 1682 and founded the government known as the Ganden Phodrang, was a period of rich cultural development. His reign and that of Desi Sangye Gyatso are noteworthy for the upsurge in literary activity and of cultural and economic life that occurred. The same goes for the great increase in the number of foreign visitors thronging Lhasa during the period as well as for the number of inventions and institutions that are attributed to the 'Great Fifth', as the Tibetans refer to him. The most dynamic and prolific of the early Dalai Lamas, he composed more literary works than all the other Dalai Lamas combined. Writing on a wide variety of subjects he is specially noted for his works on history, classical Indian poetry in Sanskrit and his biographies of notable personalities of his epoch, as well as his own two autobiographies, one spiritual in nature and the other political (see Further Reading). He also taught and travelled extensively, reshaped the politics of Central Asia, unified Tibet, conceived and constructed the Potala Palace and is remembered for establishing systems of national medical care and education.\n\nThe Fifth Dalai Lama died in 1682. Tibetan historian Nyima Gyaincain points out that the written wills from the fifth Dalai Lama before he died explicitly said his title and authority were from the Emperor of China, and he was subordinate of the Emperor of China\n\nThe Fifth Dalai Lama's death in 1682 was kept secret for fifteen years by his regent Desi Sangye Gyatso. He pretended the Dalai Lama was in retreat and ruled on his behalf, secretly selecting the 6th Dalai Lama and presenting him as someone else. Tibetan historian Nyima Gyaincain points out that Desi Sangye Gyatso wanted to consolidate his personal status and power by not reporting death of the fifth Dalai Lama to the Emperor of China, and also collude with the rebellion group of the Qing dynasty, Mongol Dzungar tribe in order to counter influence from another Mongol Khoshut tribe in Tibet. Being afraid of prosecution by the Kangxi Emperor of China, Desi Sangye Gyatso explained with fear and trepidation the reason behind his action to the Emperor. In 1705, Desi Sangye Gyatso was killed by Lha-bzang Khan of the Mongol Khoshut tribe because of his actions including his illegal action of selecting the 6th Dalai Lama. Since the Kangxi Emperor was not happy about Desi Sangye Gyatso's action of not reporting, the Emperor gave Lha-bzang Khan additional title and golden seal. The Kangxi Emperor also ordered Lha-bzang Khan to arrest the 6th Dalai Lama and send him to Beijing, the 6th Dalai Lama died when he was en route to Beijing. Journalist Thomas Laird argues that it was apparently done so that construction of the Potala Palace could be finished, and it was to prevent Tibet's neighbors, the Mongols and the Qing, from taking advantage of an interregnum in the succession of the Dalai Lamas.\n\nThe Sixth Dalai Lama (1683–1706) was born near Tawang, now in India, and picked out in 1685 but not enthroned until 1697 when the death of the Fifth was announced. After 16 years of study as a novice monk, in 1702 in his 20th year he rejected full ordination and gave up his monk's robes and monastic life, preferring the lifestyle of a layman.\n\nIn 1703 Güshi Khan's ruling grandson Tenzin Wangchuk Khan was murdered by his brother Lhazang Khan who usurped the Khoshut's Tibetan throne, but unlike his four predecessors he started interfering directly in Tibetan affairs in Lhasa; he opposed the Fifth Dalai Lama's regent, Desi Sangye Gyatso for his deceptions and in the same year, with the support of the Kangxi Emperor, he forced him out of office. Then in 1705, he used the Sixth's escapades as an excuse to seize full control of Tibet. Most Tibetans, though, still supported their Dalai Lama despite his behaviour and deeply resented Lhazang Khan's intereference. When Lhazang was requested by the Tibetans to leave Lhasa politics to them and to retire to Kokonor like his predecessors, he quit the city, but only to gather his armies in order to return, capture Lhasa militarily and assume full political control of Tibet. The regent was then murdered by Lhazang or his wife, and, in 1706 with the compliance of the Kangxi Emperor the Sixth Dalai Lama was deposed and arrested by Lhazang who considered him to be an imposter set up by the regent. Lhazang Khan, now acting as the only outright foreign ruler that Tibet had ever had, then sent him to Beijing under escort to appear before the emperor but he died mysteriously on the way near Lake Qinghai, ostensibly from illness.\n\nHaving discredited and deposed the Sixth Dalai Lama, whom he considered an imposter, and having removed the regent, Lhazang Khan pressed the Lhasa Gelugpa lamas to endorse a new Dalai Lama in Tsangyang Gyatso's place as the true incarnation of the Fifth. They eventually nominated one Pekar Dzinpa, a monk but also rumoured to be Lhazang's son, and Lhazang had him installed as the 'real' Sixth Dalai Lama, endorsed by the Panchen Lama and named Yeshe Gyatso in 1707. This choice was in no way accepted by the Tibetan people, however, nor by Lhazang's princely Mongol rivals in Kokonor who resented his usurpation of the Khoshut Tibetan throne as well as his meddling in Tibetan affairs. The Kangxi Emperor concurred with them, after sending investigators, initially declining to recognise Yeshe Gyatso. He did recognise him in 1710, however, after sending a Qing official party to assist Lhazang in 'restoring order'; these were the first Chinese representatives of any sort to officiate in Tibet. At the same time, while this puppet 'Dalai Lama' had no political power, the Kangxi Emperor secured from Lhazang Khan in return for this support the promise of regular payments of tribute; this was the first time tribute had been paid to the Manchu by the Mongols in Tibet and the first overt acknowledgement of Qing supremacy over Mongol rule in Tibet.\n\nThe Kangxi Emperor ordered Lha-bzang Khan to arrest the 6th Dalai Lama and send him to Beijing. The 6th Dalai Lama died during the route to Beijing.\n\nIn 1708, in accordance with an indication given by the 6th Dalai Lama when quitting Lhasa a child called Kelzang Gyatso had been born at Lithang in eastern Tibet who was soon claimed by local Tibetans to be his incarnation. After going into hiding out of fear of Lhazang Khan, he was installed in Lithang monastery. Along with some of the Kokonor Mongol princes, rivals of Lhazang, in defiance of the situation in Lhasa the Tibetans of Kham duly recognised him as the Seventh Dalai Lama in 1712, retaining his birth-name of Kelzang Gyatso. For security reasons he was moved to Derge monastery and eventually, in 1716, now also backed and sponsored by the Kangxi Emperor of China. The Tibetans asked Dzungars to bring a true Dalai Lama to Lhasa, but the Manchu Chinese did not want to release Kelsan Gyatso to the Mongol Dzungars. The Regent Taktse Shabdrung and Tibetan officials then wrote a letter to the Manchu Chinese Emperor that they recognized Kelsang Gyatso as the Dalai Lama. The Emperor then granted Kelsang Gyatso a golden seal of authority. The Sixth Dalai Lama was taken to Amdo at the age of 8 to be installed in Kumbum Monastery with great pomp and ceremony.\n\nAccording to Smith, the Kangxi Emperor now arranged to protect the child and keep him at Kumbum monastery in Amdo in reserve just in case his ally Lhasang Khan and his 'real' Sixth Dalai Lama, were overthrown. According to Mullin, however, the emperor's support came from genuine spiritual recognition and respect rather than being politically motivated.\n\nIn any case, the Kangxi Emperor took full advantage of having Kelzang Gyatso under Qing control at Kumbum after other Mongols from the Dzungar tribes led by Tsewang Rabtan who was related to his supposed ally Lhazang Khan, deceived and betrayed the latter by invading Tibet and capturing Lhasa in 1717.\n\nThese Dzungars, who were Buddhist, had supported the Fifth Dalai Lama and his regent. They were secretly petitioned by the Lhasa Gelugpa lamas to invade with their help in order to rid them of their foreign ruler Lhazang Khan and to replace the unpopular Sixth Dalai Lama pretender with the young Kelzang Gyats. This plot suited the devious Dzungar leaders' ambitions and they were only too happy to oblige. Early in 1717, after conspiring to undermine Lhazang Khan through treachery they entered Tibet from the northwest with a large army, sending a smaller force to Kumbum to collect Kelzang Gyatso and escort him to Lhasa. By the end of the year, with Tibetan connivance they had captured Lhasa, killed Lhazang and all his family and deposed Yeshe Gyatso. Their force sent to fetch Kelzang Gyatso however was intercepted and destroyed by Qing armies alerted by Lhazang. In Lhasa, the unruly Dzungar not only failed to produce the boy but also went on the rampage, looting and destroying the holy places, abusing the populace, killing hundreds of Nyingma monks, causing chaos and bloodshed and turning their Tibetan allies against them. The Tibetans were soon appealing to the Kangxi Emperor to rid them of the Dzungars.\n\nWhen the Dzungars had first attacked, the weakened Lhazang sent word to the Qing for support and they quickly despatched two armies to assist, the first Chinese armies ever to enter Tibet, but they arrived too late. In 1718 they were halted not far from Lhasa to be defeated and then ruthlessly annihilated by the triumphant Dzungars in the Battle of the Salween River.\n\nThis humiliation only determined the Kangxi Emperor to expel the Dzungars from Tibet once and for all and he set about assembling and dispatching a much larger force to march on Lhasa, bringing the emperor's trump card the young Kelzang Gyatso with it. On the imperial army's stately passage from Kumbum to Lhasa with the boy being welcomed adoringly at every stage, Khoshut Mongols and Tibetans were happy (and well paid) to join and swell its ranks. By the autumn of 1720 the marauding Dzungar Mongols had been vanquished from Tibet and the Qing imperial forces had entered Lhasa triumphantly with the 12-year-old, acting as patrons of the Dalai Lama, liberators of Tibet, allies of the Tibetan anti-Dzungar forces led by Kangchenas and Polhanas, and allies of the Khoshut Mongol princes. The delighted Tibetans enthroned him as the Seventh Dalai Lama at the Potala Palace.\n\nA new Tibetan government was established consisting of a Kashag or cabinet of Tibetan ministers headed by Kangchenas. Kelzang Gyatso, too young to participate in politics, studied Buddhism. He played a symbolic role in government, and, being profoundly revered by the Mongols, he exercised much influence with the Qing who now had now taken over Tibet's patronage and protection from them.\n\nHaving vanquished the Dzungars, the Qing army withdrew leaving the Seventh Dalai Lama as a political figurehead and only a Khalkha Mongol as the Qing \"amban\" or representative and a garrison in Lhasa. After the Kangxi Emperor died in 1722 and was succeeded by his son, the Yongzheng Emperor, these were also withdrawn, leaving the Tibetans to rule autonomously and showing the Qing were interested in an alliance, not conquest. In 1723, however, after brutally quelling a major rebellion by zealous Tibetan patriots and disgruntled Khoshut Mongols from Amdo who attacked Xining, the Qing intervened again, splitting Tibet by putting Amdo and Kham under their own more direct control. Continuing Qing interference in Central Tibetan politics and religion incited an anti-Qing faction to quarrel with the Qing-sympathising Tibetan nobles in power in Lhasa, led by Kanchenas who was supported by Polhanas. This led eventually to the murder of Kanchenas in 1727 and a civil war that was resolved in 1728 with the canny Polhanas, who had sent for Qing assistance, the victor. When the Qing forces did arrive they punished the losers and exiled the Seventh Dalai Lama to Kham, under the pretence of sending him to Beijing, because his father had assisted the defeated, anti-Qing faction. He studied and taught Buddhism there for the next seven years.\n\nIn 1735 he was allowed back to Lhasa to study and teach, but still under strict control, being mistrusted by the Qing, while Polhanas ruled Central Tibet under nominal Qing supervision. Meanwhile, the Qing had promoted the Fifth Panchen Lama to be a rival leader and reinstated the \"ambans\" and the Lhasa garrison. Polhanas died in 1747 and was succeeded by his son Gyurme Namgyal, the last dynastic ruler of Tibet, who was far less cooperative with the Qing. On the contrary, he built a Tibetan army and started conspiring with the Dzungars to rid Tibet of Qing influence. In 1750, when the \"ambans\" realised this, they invited him and personally assassinated him and then, despite the Dalai Lama's attempts to calm the angered populace a vengeful Tibetan mob assassinated the \"ambans\" in turn, along with most of their escort.\n\nThe Qing sent yet another force 'to restore order' but when it arrived the situation had already been stabilised under the leadership of the 7th Dalai Lama who was now seen to have demonstrated loyalty to the Qing. Just as Güshi Khan had done with the Fifth Dalai Lama, they therefore helped reconstitute the government with the Dalai Lama presiding over a Kashag of four Tibetans, reinvesting him with temporal power in addition to his already established spiritual leadership. This arrangement, with a Kashag under the Dalai Lama or his regent, outlasted the Qing dynasty which collapsed in 1912. The \"ambans\" and their garrison were also reinstated to observe and to some extent supervise affairs, however, although their influence generally waned with the power of their empire which gradually declined after 1792 along with its influence over Tibet, a decline aided by a succession of corrupt or incompetent \"ambans\". Moreover, there was soon no reason for the Qing to fear the Dzungar; by the time the Seventh Dalai Lama died in 1757 at the age of 49, the entire Dzungar people had been practically exterminated through years of genocidal campaigns by Qing armies, and deadly smallpox epidemics, with the survivors being forcibly transported into China. Their emptied lands were then awarded to other peoples.\n\nAccording to Mullin, despite living through such violent times Kelzang Gyatso was perhaps 'the most spiritually learned and accomplished of any Dalai Lama', his written works comprising several hundred titles including 'some of Tibet's finest spiritual literary achievements'. In addition, despite his apparent lack of zeal in politics, Kelzang Gyatso is credited with establishing in 1751 the reformed government of Tibet headed by the Dalai Lama, which continued over 200 years until the 1950s, and then in exile. Construction of the Norbulingka, the 'Summer Palace' of the Dalai Lamas in Lhasa was also started during Kelzang Gyatso's reign.\n\nThe Eighth Dalai Lama, Jamphel Gyatso was born in Tsang in 1758 and died aged 46 having taken little part in Tibetan politics, mostly leaving temporal matters to his regents and the \"ambans\". The 8th Dalai Lama was approved by the Emperor of China to be exempted from the lot-drawing ceremony of using Chinese Golden Urn. The Emperor of China Qianlong officially accept Gyiangbai as the 8th Dalai Lama when the 6th Panchen Erdeni came to congratulate the Emperor on his 70th birthday in 1780. The 8th Dalai Lama was granted a jade seal of authority and jade sheets of confirmation of authority by the Emperor of China. The jade sheets of confirmation of authority says\n\nThe Dalai Lama, his later generations and the local government cherished both the jade seal of authority, and the jade sheets of authority. They were properly preserved as the root to their ruling power.\n\nAlthough the 8th Dalai Lama lived almost as long as the Seventh he was overshadowed by many contemporary lamas in terms of both religious and political accomplishment. According to Mullin, the Fourteenth Dalai Lama has pointed to certain indications that Jamphel Gyatso might not have been the incarnation of the Seventh Dalai Lama but of Jamyang Chojey, a disciple of Tsongkhapa and founder of Drepung monastery who was also reputed to be an incarnation of Avalokiteshvara. In any case, he mainly lived a quiet and unassuming life as a devoted and studious monk, uninvolved in the kind of dramas that had surrounded his predecessors.\n\nNevertheless, Jamphel Gyatso was also said to possess all the signs of being the true incarnation of the Seventh. This was also claimed to have been confirmed by many portents clear to the Tibetans and so, in 1762, at the age of 5, he was duly enthroned as the Eighth Dalai Lama at the Potala Palace. At the age of 23 he was persuaded to assume the throne as ruler of Tibet with a Regent to assist him and after three years of this, when the Regent went to Beijing as ambassador in 1784, he continued to rule solo for a further four years. Feeling unsuited to worldly affairs, however, and unhappy in this role, he then retired from public office to concentrate on religious activities for his remaining 16 years until his death in 1804. He is also credited with the construction of the Norbulingka 'Summer Palace' started by his predecessor in Lhasa and with ordaining some ten thousand monks in his efforts to foster monasticism.\n\nHugh Richardson's summary of the period covering the four short-lived, 19th-century Dalai Lamas:\nThubten Jigme Norbu, the elder brother of the 14th Dalai Lama, described these unfortunate events as follows, although there are few, if any, indications that any of the four were said to be 'Chinese-appointed imposters':\nAccording to Mullin, on the other hand, it is improbable that the Manchus would have murdered any of these four for being 'unmanageable' since it would have been in their best interests to have strong Dalai Lamas ruling in Lhasa, he argues, agreeing with Richardson that it was rather \"the ambition and greed for power of Tibetans\" that might have caused the Lamas' early deaths. Further, if Tibetan nobles murdered any of them, which is quite possible, it would more likely to have been in order to protect or enhance their personal family interests rather than out of suspicion that the Dalai Lamas were seen as Chinese-appointed imposters as suggested by Norbu. They could have also easily died from illnesses, possibly contracted from diseases to which they had no immunity, carried to Lhasa by the multitudes of pilgrims visiting him from nearby countries for personal blessings. Finally, from the Buddhist point of view, Mullin says, \"Simply stated, these four Dalai Lamas died young because the world did not have enough good karma to deserve their presence\".\n\nTibetan historian K. Dhondup, however, in his history \"The Water-Bird and Other Years\", based on the Tibetan minister Surkhang Sawang Chenmo's historical manuscripts, disagrees with Mullin's opinion that having strong Dalai Lamas in power in Tibet would have been in China's best interests. He notes that many historians are compelled to suspect Manchu foul play in these serial early deaths because the Ambans had such latitude to interfere; the Manchu, he says, \"\"to perpetuate their domination over Tibetan affairs, did not desire a Dalai Lama who will ascend the throne and become a strong and capable ruler over his own country and people\". The life and deeds of the 13th Dalai Lama [in successfully upholding \"de facto\" Tibetan independence from China from 1912 to 1950] serve as the living proof of this argument, he points out. This account also corresponds with TJ Norbu's observations above.\n\nFinally, while acknowledging the possibility, the 14th Dalai Lama himself doubts they were poisoned. He ascribes the probable cause of these early deaths to negligence, foolishness and lack of proper medical knowledge and attention. \"Even today\" he is quoted as saying, \"when people get sick, some [Tibetans] will say: 'Just do your prayers, you don't need medical treatment.\"\n\nBorn in Kham in 1805/6 amidst the usual miraculous signs the Ninth Dalai Lama, Lungtok Gyatso was appointed by the 7th Panchen Lama's search team at the age of two and enthroned in the Potala in 1808 at an impressive ceremony attended by representatives from China, Mongolia, Nepal and Bhutan. Tibetan historian Nyima Gyaincain and Wang Jiawei point out that the 9th Dalai Lama was allowed to use the seal of authority given to the late 8th Dalai Lama by the Emperor of China\n\nHis second Regent Demo Tulku was the biographer of the 8th and 9th Dalai Lamas and though the 9th died at the age of 9 his biography is as lengthy as those of many of the early Dalai Lamas. In 1793 under Manchu pressure Tibet had closed its borders to foreigners, but in 1815 a British scientist, Thomas Manning became the first Englishman to visit Lhasa. Considered to be 'the first Chinese scholar in Europe' he stayed five months and gave enthusiastic accounts in his journal of his regular meetings with the Ninth Dalai Lama whom he found fascinating: “beautiful, elegant, refined, intelligent, and entirely self-possessed, even at the age of six.” Three years later in March 1815 the young Lungtok Gyatso caught a severe cold and, leaving the Potala Palace to preside over the New Year Monlam Prayer Festival he contracted pneumonia from which he soon died.\n\nLike the Seventh Dalai Lama, the Tenth, Tsultrim Gyatso, was born in Lithang, Kham, where the Third Dalai Lama had built a monastery. It was 1816 and Regent Demo Tulku and the Seventh Panchen Lama followed indications from Nechung, the 'state oracle' which led them to appoint him at the age of two. He passed all the tests and was brought to Lhasa but official recognition was delayed until 1822 when he was enthroned and ordained by the Seventh Panchen Lama. There are conflicting reports about whether the Chinese 'Golden Urn' was utilised by drawing lots to choose him. The 10th Dalai Lama mentioned in his biography that he was allowed to use the golden seal of authority based on the convention set up by the late Dalai Lama. At the investiture, decree of the Emperor of China was issued and read out. After 15 years of intensive studies and failing health he died, in 1837, at the age of 20 or 21. He identified with ordinary people rather than the court officials and often sat on his verandah in the sunshine with the office clerks. Intending to empower the common people he planned to institute political and economic reforms to share the nation's wealth more equitably. Over this period his health had deteriorated, the implication being that he may have suffered from slow poisoning by Tibetan aristocrats whose interests these reforms were threatening. He was also dissatisfied with his Regent and the Kashag and scolded them for not alleviating the condition of the common people, who had suffered much in small ongoing regional civil wars waged in Kokonor between Mongols, local Tibetans and the government over territory, and in Kham to extract unpaid taxes from rebellious Tibetan communities.\n\nBorn in Gathar, Kham in 1838 and soon discovered by the official search committee with the help of Nechung Oracle, the Eleventh Dalai Lama was brought to Lhasa in 1841 and recognised, enthroned and named Khedrup Gyatso by the Panchen Lama in 1842, who also ordained him in 1846. After that he was immersed in religious studies under the Panchen Lama, amongst other great masters. Meanwhile, there were court intrigues and ongoing power struggles taking place between the various Lhasa factions, the Regent, the Kashag, the powerful nobles and the abbots and monks of the three great monasteries. The Tsemonling Regent became mistrusted and was forcibly deposed, there were machinations, plots, beatings and kidnappings of ministers and so forth, resulting at last in the Panchen Lama being appointed as interim Regent to keep the peace. Eventually the Third Reting Rinpoche was made Regent, and in 1855, Khedrup Gyatso, appearing to be an extremely promising prospect, was requested to take the reins of power at the age of 17. He was enthroned as ruler of Tibet in 1855 following Xianfeng Emperor's order. He died after just 11 months, no reason for his sudden and premature death being given in these accounts, Shakabpa and Mullin's histories both being based on untranslated Tibetan chronicles. The respected Reting Rinpoche was recalled once again to act as Regent and requested to lead the search for the next incarnation, the twelfth.\n\nIn 1856 a child was born in south central Tibet amidst all the usual extraordinary signs. He came to the notice of the search team, was investigated, passed the traditional tests and was recognised as the 12th Dalai Lama in 1858. The use of the Chinese Golden Urn at the insistence of the Regent, who was later accused of being a Chinese lackey, confirmed this choice to the satisfaction of all. Renamed Trinley Gyatso and enthroned in 1860 the boy underwent 13 years of intensive tutelage and training before stepping up to rule Tibet at the age of 17.\n\nHis minority seems a time of even deeper Lhasan political intrigue and power struggles than his predecessor's. By 1862 this led to a coup by Wangchuk Shetra, a minister whom the Regent had banished for conspiring against him. Shetra contrived to return, deposed the Regent, who fled to China, and seized power, appointing himself 'Desi' or Prime Minister. He then ruled with \"absolute power\" for three years, quelling a major rebellion in northern Kham in 1863 and re-establishing Tibetan control over significant Qing-held territory there. Shetra died in 1864 and the Kashag re-assumed power. The retired 76th Ganden Tripa, Khyenrab Wangchuk, was appointed as 'Regent' but his role was limited to supervising and mentoring Trinley Gyatso.\n\nIn 1868 Shetra's coup organiser, a semi-literate Ganden monk named Palden Dondrup, seized power by another coup and ruled as a cruel despot for three years, putting opponents to death by having them 'sewn into fresh animal skins and thrown in the river'. In 1871, at the request of officials outraged after Dondrup had done just that with one minister and imprisoned several others, he in turn was ousted and committed suicide after a counter-coup coordinated by the supposedly powerless 'Regent' Khyenrab Wangchuk. As a result of this action this venerable old Regent, who died the next year, is fondly remembered by Tibetans as saviour of the Dalai Lama and the nation. The Kashag and the Tsongdu or National Assembly were re-instated, and, presided over by a Dalai Lama or his Regent, ruled without further interruption until 1959.\n\nAccording to Smith, however, during Trinley Gyatso's minority, the Regent was deposed in 1862 for abuse of authority and closeness with China, by an alliance of monks and officials called \"Gandre Drungche\" (Ganden and Drepung Monks Assembly); this body then ruled Tibet for ten years until dissolved, when a National Assembly of monks and officials called the \"Tsongdu\" was created and took over. Smith makes no mention of Shetra or Dondrup acting as usurpers and despots in this period.\n\nIn any case, Trinley Gyatso died within three years of assuming power. In 1873, at the age of 20 \"he suddenly became ill and passed away\". On the cause of his early death, accounts diverge. Mullin relates an interesting theory, based on cited Tibetan sources: out of concern for the monastic tradition, Trinley Gyatso chose to die and reincarnate as the 13th Dalai Lama, rather than taking the option of marrying a woman called Rigma Tsomo from Kokonor and leaving an heir to \"oversee Tibet's future\". Shakabpa on the other hand, without citing sources, notes that Trinley Gyatso was influenced and manipulated by two close acquaintances who were subsequently accused of having a hand in his fatal illness and imprisoned, tortured and exiled as a result.\n\nThe 13th Dalai Lama assumed ruling power from the monasteries, which previously had great influence on the Regent, in 1895. Due to his two periods of exile in 1904–1909 to escape the British invasion of 1904, and from 1910 to 1912 to escape a Chinese invasion, he became well aware of the complexities of international politics and was the first Dalai Lama to become aware of the importance of foreign relations. After his return from exile in India and Sikkim during January 1913, he assumed control of foreign relations and dealt directly with the Maharaja, with the British Political officer in Sikkim and with the king of Nepal – rather than letting the Kashag or parliament do it. \n\nThe Thirteenth issued a Declaration of Independence for his kingdom in Ü-Tsang from China during the summer of 1912 and standardised a Tibetan flag, though no other sovereign state recognized Tibetan independence. He expelled the ambans and all Chinese civilians in the country and instituted many measures to modernise Tibet. These included provisions to curb excessive demands on peasants for provisions by the monasteries and tax evasion by the nobles, setting up an independent police force, the abolition of the death penalty, extension of secular education, and the provision of electricity throughout the city of Lhasa in the 1920s. He died in 1933.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama was born on a straw mat in a cowshed to a farmer's family in a remote part of Tibet. According to most Western journalistic sources he was born into a humble family of farmers as one of 16 children. The 14th Dalai Lama had become the joint most popular world leader by 2013, (tied with Barack Obama), according to a poll conducted by Harris Interactive of New York, which sampled public opinion in the USA and six major European countries.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama was not formally enthroned until 17 November 1950, during the Battle of Chamdo with the People's Republic of China. In 1951, the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan government were pressured into accepting the Seventeen Point Agreement for the Peaceful Liberation of Tibet by which it became formally incorporated into the People's Republic of China. Fearing for his life in the wake of a revolt in Tibet in 1959, the 14th Dalai Lama fled to India, from where he led a government in exile.\n\nWith the aim of launching guerrilla operations against the Chinese, the Central Intelligence Agency funded the Dalai Lama's administration with US$1.7 million a year in the 1960s. In 2001 the 14th Dalai Lama ceded his partial power over the government to an elected parliament of selected Tibetan exiles. His original goal was full independence for Tibet, but by the late 1980s he was seeking high-level autonomy instead. He continued to seek greater autonomy from China, but Dolma Gyari, deputy speaker of the parliament-in-exile, stated: \"If the middle path fails in the short term, we will be forced to opt for complete independence or self-determination as per the UN charter\".\n\nIn 2014 and 2016, he stated that Tibet wants to be part of China but China should let Tibet preserve its culture and script.\n\nIn 2018, he stated that \"Europe belongs to the Europeans\" and that Europe has a moral obligation to aid refugees whose lives are in peril. Further he stated that Europe should receive, help and educate refugees but ultimately they should return to develop their home countries.\n\nThe 1st Dalai Lama was based at Tashi Lhunpo Monastery, which he founded, the Second to the Fifth Dalai Lamas were mainly based at Drepung Monastery outside Lhasa. In 1645, after the unification of Tibet, the Fifth moved to the ruins of a royal fortress or residence on top of \"Marpori\" ('Red Mountain') in Lhasa and decided to build a palace on the same site. This ruined palace, called Tritse Marpo, was originally built around 636 AD by the founder of the Tibetan Empire, Songtsen Gampo for his Nepalese wife. Amongst the ruins there was just a small temple left where Tsongkhapa had given a teaching when he arrived in Lhasa in the 1380s. The Fifth Dalai Lama began construction of the Potala Palace on this site in 1645, carefully incorporating what was left of his predecessor's palace into its structure. From then on and until today, unless on tour or in exile the Dalai Lamas have always spent their winters at the Potala Palace and their summers at the Norbulingka palace and park. Both palaces are in Lhasa and approximately 3 km apart.\n\nFollowing the failed 1959 Tibetan uprising, the 14th Dalai Lama sought refuge in India. Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru allowed in the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan government officials. The Dalai Lama has since lived in exile in McLeod Ganj, in the Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh in northern India, where the Central Tibetan Administration is also established. His residence on the Temple Road in McLeod Ganj is called the Dalai Lama Temple and is visited by people from across the globe. Tibetan refugees have constructed and opened many schools and Buddhist temples in Dharamshala.\n\nBy the Himalayan tradition, \"phowa\" is the discipline that is believed to transfer the mindstream to the intended body. Upon the death of the Dalai Lama and consultation with the Nechung Oracle, a search for the Lama's \"yangsi\", or reincarnation, is conducted. Traditionally, it has been the responsibility of the High Lamas of the Gelugpa tradition and the Tibetan government to find a person accepted as his reincarnation. The process can take around two or three years to identify the Dalai Lama, and for the 14th, Tenzin Gyatso, it was four years before he was found. Historically, the search for the Dalai Lama has usually been limited to Tibet, though the third tulku was born in Mongolia. Tenzin Gyatso, however, has stated that he will not be reborn in the People's Republic of China, though he has also suggested he may not be reborn at all, suggesting the function of the Dalai Lama may be outdated. The government of the People's Republic of China has stated its intention to be the ultimate authority on the selection of the next Dalai Lama.\n\nThe High Lamas used several ways in which they can increase the chances of finding a person they claim to be the reincarnation. High Lamas often visit Lhamo La-tso, a lake in central Tibet, and watch for a sign from the lake itself. This may be either a claimed 'vision' or some 'indication' of the direction in which to search, and this was how Tenzin Gyatso was determined to be the next Dalai Lama.\nIt is said that Palden Lhamo, the female guardian spirit of the sacred lake Lhamo La-tso promised Gendun Drup, the 1st Dalai Lama, in one of his visions \"that she would protect the reincarnation lineage of the Dalai Lamas.\" Ever since the time of Gendun Gyatso, the 2nd Dalai Lama, who formalised the system, the Regents and other monks have gone to the lake to seek guidance on choosing the next reincarnation through visions while meditating there.\n\nThe particular form of Palden Lhamo at Lhamo La-tso is Gyelmo Maksorma, \"The Victorious One who Turns Back Enemies\". The lake is sometimes referred to as \"Pelden Lhamo Kalideva\", which has been taken as a reason to claim that Palden Lhamo is an emanation of the goddess Kali, the shakti of the Hindu God Shiva.\n\nIt was here that in 1935, the Regent Reting Rinpoche claimed to have received a clear vision of three Tibetan letters and of a monastery with a jade-green and gold roof, and a house with turquoise roof tiles, which led to the indication of Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nHigh Lamas may also claim to have a vision by a dream or if the Dalai Lama was cremated, they will often monitor the direction of the smoke as an 'indication' of the direction of the expected rebirth.\n\nOnce the High Lamas have found the home and the boy they believe to be the reincarnation, the boy undergoes tests to ceremoniously legitimize the rebirth. They present a number of artifacts, only some of which belonged to the previous Dalai Lama, and if the boy chooses the items which belonged to the previous Dalai Lama, this is seen as a sign, in conjunction with all of the other claimed indications, that the boy is the reincarnation.\n\nIf there is only one boy found, the High Lamas will invite Living Buddhas of the three great monasteries, together with secular clergy and monk officials, to 'confirm their findings' and then report to the Central Government through the Minister of Tibet. Later, a group consisting of the three major servants of Dalai Lama, eminent officials, and troops will collect the boy and his family and travel to Lhasa, where the boy would be taken, usually to Drepung Monastery, to study the Buddhist sutra in preparation for assuming the role of spiritual leader of Tibet.\n\nIf there are several possible claimed reincarnations, however, regents, eminent officials, monks at the Jokhang in Lhasa, and the Minister to Tibet have historically decided on the individual by putting the boys' names inside an urn and drawing one lot in public if it was too difficult to judge the reincarnation initially.\n\nThere have been 14 recognised incarnations of the Dalai Lama:\n\nThere has also been one non-recognised Dalai Lama, Ngawang Yeshe Gyatso, declared 28 June 1707, when he was 25 years old, by Lha-bzang Khan as the \"true\" 6th Dalai Lama – however, he was never accepted as such by the majority of the population.\n\nThe government of the People's Republic of China (PRC) has claimed the power to approve the naming of \"high\" reincarnations in Tibet, based on a precedent set by the Qianlong Emperor of the Qing dynasty. The Qianlong Emperor instituted a system of selecting the Dalai Lama and the Panchen Lama by a lottery that used a Golden Urn with names wrapped in clumps of barley. This method was used a few times for both positions during the 19th century, but eventually fell into disuse. In 1995, the Dalai Lama chose to proceed with the selection of the 11th reincarnation of the Panchen Lama without the use of the Golden Urn, while the Chinese government insisted that it must be used. This has led to two rival Panchen Lamas: Gyaincain Norbu as chosen by the Chinese government's process, and Gedhun Choekyi Nyima as chosen by the Dalai Lama.\n\nIn September 2007, the Chinese government said all high monks must be approved by the government, which would include the selection of the 15th Dalai Lama after the death of Tenzin Gyatso. Since by tradition, the Panchen Lama must approve the reincarnation of the Dalai Lama, that is another possible method of control. Consequently, the Dalai Lama has alluded to the possibility of a referendum to determine the 15th Dalai Lama.\n\nIn response to this scenario, Tashi Wangdi, the representative of the 14th Dalai Lama, replied that the Chinese government's selection would be meaningless. \"You can't impose an Imam, an Archbishop, saints, any religion...you can't politically impose these things on people,\" said Wangdi. \"It has to be a decision of the followers of that tradition. The Chinese can use their political power: force. Again, it's meaningless. Like their Panchen Lama. And they can't keep their Panchen Lama in Tibet. They tried to bring him to his monastery many times but people would not see him. How can you have a religious leader like that?\"\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama said as early as 1969 that it was for the Tibetans to decide whether the institution of the Dalai Lama \"should continue or not\". He has given reference to a possible vote occurring in the future for all Tibetan Buddhists to decide whether they wish to recognize his rebirth. In response to the possibility that the PRC might attempt to choose his successor, the Dalai Lama said he would not be reborn in a country controlled by the People's Republic of China or any other country which is not free. According to Robert D. Kaplan, this could mean that \"the next Dalai Lama might come from the Tibetan cultural belt that stretches across northern India, Nepal, and Bhutan, presumably making him even more pro-Indian and anti-Chinese\".\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama supported the possibility that his next incarnation could be a woman. As an \"engaged Buddhist\" the Dalai Lama has an appeal straddling cultures and political systems making him one of the most recognized and respected moral voices today. \"Despite the complex historical, religious and political factors surrounding the selection of incarnate masters in the exiled Tibetan tradition, the Dalai Lama is open to change,\" author Michaela Haas writes. \"Why not? What's the big deal?\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14198796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14198796", "title": "Dave Chalk (entrepreneur)", "text": "Dave Chalk (entrepreneur)\n\nDavid Ian Chalk (born 1963) is a Canadian technology entrepreneur and media personality who hosted the syndicated \"Dave Chalk's Computer Show\", and its subsequent incarnations \"Dave Chalk Computer Life\", \"Dave Chalk Connected Live\", \"Dave Chalk Connected\", and \"Dave Chalk Connected (In-flight)\".\n\nChalk was born in Croydon, England on September 1963 and relocated with his family to British Columbia, Canada. As a youth he suffered from Dyslexia, face blindness and other afflictions he acquired from brain damage at birth.\n\nChalk completed high school, but did not finish his university degree.\n\nChalk was granted an Honorary Doctorate of Technology by the University of the Fraser Valley’s Alumni Association board.\"\n\nChalk established the longest-running technology show in Canada (\"Dave Chalk's Computer Show\"),\n"}
{"id": "1130236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130236", "title": "Ebrahim Yazdi", "text": "Ebrahim Yazdi\n\nEbrahim Yazdi (; 26 September 1931 – 27 August 2017) was an Iranian politician and diplomat who served as deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs in the interim government of Mehdi Bazargan, until his resignation in November 1979, in protest at the Iran hostage crisis. From 1995 until 2017, he headed the Freedom Movement of Iran. Yazdi was also a trained cancer researcher. \n\nYazdi was born in Qazvin on 26 September 1931. He studied pharmacology at the University of Tehran. Then he received a master's degree in philosophy again from the University of Tehran.\n\nAfter the military coup of 1953, which deposed the government of Mohammad Mossadegh, Yazdi joined the underground National Resistance Movement of Iran, and was active in this organization from 1953 to 1960. This organization opposed to the Shah, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Yazdi traveled to the United States in 1961 to continue his education and in the US, continued his involvement in political activities against the Shah.\n\nHe was cofounder of the Freedom Movement of Iran, Abroad, along with Mostafa Chamran, Ali Shariati, and Sadegh Qotbzadeh in 1961. They were all part of the radical external wing of the group. In 1963, Yazdi, Chamran and Ghotbzadeh went to Egypt and met the authorities to establish an anti-Shah organization in the country, which was later called SAMA, special organization for unity and action. Chamran was chosen as its military head before returning to the US. In 1966, Yazdi moved headquarters of SAMA to Beirut. In 1967, he enrolled at Baylor University and received a PhD in biochemistry.\n\nIn 1975, Yazdi was tried in absentia in an Iranian military court and condemned to ten years imprisonment, with orders issued for his arrest upon return to Iran. Because of his activities, he was unable to return to Iran and remained in the United States until July 1977. He became a naturalized US citizen in Houston in 1971. When Ayatollah Khomenei moved to Neauphle-le-Château an Parisian suburb from Iraq in 1978, Yazdi also went to Neauphle-le-Château and began to serve as an advisor to the Ayatollah. He was also his spokesperson in Paris.\n\nYazdi worked as a research assistant of pathology and research instructor of pharmacology at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston until 1977. He also worked at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Houston. From 1961 to 1977, Yazdi founded the \"Muslim Students Association from the United States\" and later became a spokesman for Paris-based Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.\nIn 1978, he joined Ayatollah Khomeini in Paris where the latter had been in exile and became one of his advisors. He translated the reports of Khomeini into English in a press conference on 3 February 1979 in Tehran. He was the deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs in the interim government of Mehdi Bazargan, until 6 November 1979. Yazdi proposed to celebrate 'Jerusalem Day' and his suggestion was endorsed by Khomeini in August 1979. In May 1980, he was appointed by Khomenei as head of the \"Kayhan\" newspaper.\n\nOn 4 November 1979, the US embassy was taken over for a second time, this time by a group calling itself “Students Following the Line of the Imam (i.e. Ayatollah Khomeini)” and led by Mohammad Mousavi Khoeiniha, who had closer ties to certain revolutionary leaders.\n\nAs before, Yazdi was asked to go to the embassy and resolve the crisis. He asked and received permission of Khomeini to expel the occupiers, but shortly thereafter found out Khomeini had changed his mind and appeared on state television openly endorsed the takeover of the embassy. The entire cabinet of the interim government, including Yazdi and Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan, resigned in protest the next day. They stated that they opposed the embassy takeover as “contrary to the national interest of Iran”.\n\nThe embassy takeover is considered to have been motivated in part by an internal struggle between various factions within the revolutionary leadership, with Yazdi and Bazargan on one side, and more radical clergy on the other. The embassy attackers, in subsequent statements indicated that one of their primary objectives in the takeover of the US embassy in November 1979 was to force the resignation of Yazdi, Bazargan, and the entire cabinet.\n\nAmong the areas of conflict between the two factions was the behavior of the Revolutionary Courts and the Revolutionary Committees. Yazdi and Bazargan supported a general amnesty for all members of the Shah’s regime, provided that they cease to act against the revolution. They publicly opposed the secret trials and the summary executions carried out by the Revolutionary Courts, led by Ayatollah Sadegh Khalkhaali. Many sources however have documented that Yazdi was the main member of the revolutionary court that led the violence and execution. Bazargan and other members of the interim government may have called for fair and open trials for those in charge of political posts under the Shah. The radical clerics, on the other hand, stated that the rapid trials and executions were essential to protect the revolution.\n\nAfter resignation from office, Yazdi and other members of the Freedom Movement of Iran ran in elections for the first post-revolutionary Islamic Consultative Assembly or parliament. Yazdi, Bazargan, and four other members of the Freedom Movement, namely Mostafa Chamran, Ahmad Sadr, Hashem Sabbaghian, and Yadollah Sahabi, were elected. They served at the parliament from 1980 to 1984.\n\nAfter the Iraqi invasion of Iran in September 1980, Yazdi fully supported the Iranian war effort against the invasion, but opposed the continuation of the war after the Iranian victory in Khorramshahr in 1982. The war continued for an additional six years. During these six years, Yazdi and others in the Freedom Movement issued several open letters to Ayatollah Khomeini opposing the continuation of the war. These letters and other public statements resulted in the firebombing of Yazdi’s residence in Tehran in 1985, and the arrest and imprisonment of several member of the Freedom Movement.\nIn subsequent elections in Iran for president, parliament, and city councils, Yazdi and other members of the Freedom Movement filed for candidacy but were barred from running by the Guardian Council, because of their opposition to policies and actions of the government.\n\nIn December 1997, Yazdi was arrested on unknown charges and detained in Evin prison in Tehran. Even after his release, he was barred from leaving the country for many years, and summoned on a regular basis to answer questions before the revolutionary council, with his lawyer, Nobel Prize–winning Shirin Ebadi. As of 2008 Yazdi is still accused of “attempting to convert the rule of velaii (jurisprudence) into democratic rule.”\n\nAfter the death of Bazargan in January 1995, Yazdi was elected as leader of Freedom Movement of Iran. Under pressure from the revolutionary court prosecutor, Yazdi offered his resignation as FMI Leader from on 20 March 2011 to the leadership council of the FMI. They have yet to accept his resignation and Yazdi continues to function as the leader of the Freedom Movement of Iran.\n\nYazdi was arrested in December 1997 for \"desecrating religious sanctities\" and freed on 26 December on bail. On 17 June 2009, during the 2009 Iranian election protests, it was reported that Yazdi was arrested while undergoing tests at the Tehran hospital according to the Freedom Movement of Iran website. On 22 June, he was released back to the hospital for a medical procedure. On 28 December 2009, Yazdi was arrested again in the wake of renewed protests, according to the Jaras reformist website.\n\nYazdi and several others were arrested on 1 October 2010 in Isfahan for participating in an \"illegal Friday prayer.\" All others were freed within days. Ebrahim Yazdi remained in \"temporary custody\"—first in Evin prison and then in a \"secure\" facility under the control of Iran's security forces until March 2011. He was released in April 2011.\nOn 27 August 2017, Yazdi died of pancreatic cancer, at the age of 85 in Izmir, Turkey, where he was under treatment. His body transferred to Iran and was buried in Behesht-e Zahra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53060219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53060219", "title": "Eleanor Ireland", "text": "Eleanor Ireland\n\nEleanor Ireland (7 August 1926 – ?) was an early British computer science pioneer and member of the Women's Royal Naval Service. \n\nEleanor Ireland was born on 7 August 1926 in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, England. She had one sibling, a brother, who was in the Royal Air Force, and later worked for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries as a statistician. Her father worked as a civil servant. Ireland attended Berkhamsted School for Girls from when she was ten, until she left at seventeen. At school, Ireland received distinctions in English language, English literature, French, and Biology. \n\nAfter she finished school, Ireland moved to London in hopes of studying architecture. Despite being accepted into Regent Street School of Architecture, she ultimately did not attend because of World War II. Ireland believed it would be a waste of money to attend architecture school and risk being sent to war. She instead chose to work at a friend's philatelic shop on Chancery Lane until 1944. It was this year that she joined the Women's Royal Naval Service.\n\nPrior to World War II, Eleanor Ireland worked for a philatelist. Ireland volunteered for the Women's Royal Naval Service (WRNS) in the spring of 1944, and received a letter on August 2, 1944 that she was accepted into the WRNS. Once accepted into the Women's Royal Naval Service, Ireland was kept at Tullichewan Castle, located near Loch Lomond, Scotland. For the first portion of time she was with the WRNS completing lower level work such as cleaning and food preparation. Next, Ireland was transported to Bletchley Park and was informed she was a part of PV Special Duties X. Like other women who wanted a job with the new machines, she had to score highly on a placement test. The work Ireland was involved with was top secret, and she, along with the other women she worked with, were told not to tell anyone any information regarding the work they were doing. The women were all required to sign the Official Secrets Act, promising not to divulge any information regarding their work. Ireland spent the rest of her time with the Women's Royal Naval Service living in Woburn Abbey. After the war, she was an artist.\n\nAfter the war, she thought about going into interior decoration, but a \"very formidable aunt\" who taught art at a grammar school in Wolverhampton, persuaded her to study art at Regent Street Polytechnic School of Art, where she spent five years, and then found work doing book illustrations. After her sons grew up, she worked teaching art to adults.\n\nIreland and Jean Beech, another WRNS employee, worked with a mathematician codebreaker while she was residing in Woburn Abby. She worked with the Colossus II to try to break different combinations of coded messages during World War II that the Germans were transmitting. Colossus had to break the daily encryption settings to solve Tunny code. She had to log all the tapes being sent to her by recording the date and time messages were received and when they were taken off, and then she would load them into the Colossus II. She operated Colossus computers using copper-nickel plated pins and tape. The paper tape would burst during the high speed runs and the workers would use glue to piece all the bits back together.\n\nShe married a microbiologist who worked in research for Glaxo, and they had two sons, Robin and Toby.\n"}
{"id": "38419758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38419758", "title": "Elizabeth Oropesa", "text": "Elizabeth Oropesa\n\nElizabeth Oropesa Freeman (born July 17, 1954), also known as La Oropesa, or \"Boots\" to friends is a Filipino former actress. She was a Grand Slam Best Actress winner for \"Bulaklak Ng Maynila\" (1999). She was a former Miss Luzon of the Miss Republic of the Philippines (RP) 1972. She was one of the Miss White Castle models in the mid-70s. Aside from showbiz assignments and commitments, La Oropesa is currently working as a healer. Her father was a Native American.\n\nIt was in 1974 when a young Elizabeth Oropesa was introduced in Celso Ad Castillo's \"Ang Pinakamagandang Hayop Sa Balat Ng Lupa\" (1974) lending support to former Miss Universe, Gloria Diaz, who was then being launched to stardom. Portraying the role of \"Saling\", the barrio lass who was madly in love with Simon (Vic Vargas) and loathe the presence of Isabel (Gloria Diaz) in the barrio-island. She along with Gloria Diaz made a big splash by introducing the \"wet look\" in Philippine cinema.\n\nOropesa was launched to stardom in \"Mister Mo, Lover Boy Ko\" (1975), produced by Jesse Ejercito and directed by Ishmael Bernal. She won the FAMAS Best Actress award for \"Lumapit, Lumayo Ang Umaga\" (1975), also directed by Bernal. Again, Bernal directed Oropesa in \"Nunal Sa Tubig\" (1976), one of the best films of the '70s. Oropesa is one of the favorites of director Ishmael Bernal, who directed her in classic movies.\n\nOther notable movie assignments she made were \"Alupihan Dagat\" (1975) and \"Aguila\" (1980) with Fernando Poe, Jr., \"Si Rafael at Raquel\" (1976) and \"Hide and Seek sa Manila, Makati\" (1977) with Christopher de Leon, \"Mother and Daughter\" (1975) with Paraluman and Vic Vargas, \"Katawang Lupa\" (1975) with Eddie Gutierrez, \"Uhaw na Dagat\"(1981) with Gloria Diaz and Isabel Rivas, \"Iking boxer\" (1975) with Chiquito, \"Nueva Vizcaya\" (1974) with Vic Vargas, \"Si Malakas, Si Maganda at Si Mahinhin\" (1981) with Alma Moreno and Dindo Fernando, \"Palabra de Honor\" (1983) with Eddie Garcia.\n\nShe received also Best Supporting Actress trophies for \"Milagros\" (1997) and \"Sa Pusod Ng Dagat\" (1998), both directed by Marilou Diaz-Abaya and a Best Actress grandslam, five best actress trophies for \"Bulaklak Ng Maynila\" (1999), directed by Joel Lamangan.\n\nShe did \"Mister Mo, Lover Ko\" (1999) comedy film directed again by Joel Lamangan, starring Glydel Mercado, Eddie Gutierrez, Gary Estrada and Danny Ramos. In 2003, she made a movie \"Homecoming\", an entry to the Metro Manila Film Festival, directed by Gil Portes, with Alessandra de Rossi, playing mother and daughter caught in a heart-wrenching homecoming. \nShe played the mother of Jennica Garcia and stepmother of Jolina Magdangal in GMA's Adik Sa 'Yo (TV series) (2009) with Marvin Agustin, Dennis Trillo and Joey Marquez, directed by Joel Lamangan. She starred in a digital movie \"Ded Na Si Lolo\" (2009), about a family staying together and getting stronger amid personal differences and hardships, starring Roderick Paulate, Gina Alajar and Manilyn Reynes. Oropesa makes strong comeback as grandmother in TV drama, aired in ABS-CBN. In 2004, Elizabeth played a villain character named Belinda Manalo in Te Amo, Maging Sino Ka Man, the character was bitter and hot-headed. In 2017, she played a good role in Impostora in which the character she's playing is calm and supportive to the main protagonist. In 2018, she was taped to play the funny arrogant and brainless mother of Amber in which they scheme to become rich but overall they are anti-heroes. The character was named Violet \"Violy\" Bolocboc who is one of the anti-heroines of Pamilya Roces.\n\nShe has appeared in more than 150 movies and television shows since 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "46752135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46752135", "title": "Ellen F. Davis", "text": "Ellen F. Davis\n\nEllen F. Davis is an American theologian and Old Testament scholar. She is the Amos Ragan Kearns Distinguished Professor of Bible and Practical Theology at Duke Divinity School and is currently serving as the Interim Dean of the Divinity School for the 2015-2016 academic year. \n\nDavis has degrees from University of California, Berkeley (A.B., Comparative Literature), the Church Divinity School of the Pacific (M.Div.) and Yale University (Ph.D., Old Testament). She previously taught at Union Theological Seminary (New York City), Yale Divinity School, and Virginia Theological Seminary.\n\nDavis's work has focused on how biblical interpretation can be used to address urgent contemporary issues in the church and world. She has considered how the Old Testament can be used to address preaching, interfaith dialogue, and the ecological crisis. Davis is known in particular for this latter work; she has written a book on the Old Testament view of land and ecology entitled \"Scripture, Culture, and Agriculture: An Agrarian Reading of the Bible.\" She appeared on NPR's program \"On Being\" with Wendell Berry in 2011 and also spoke with Berry and fellow Duke Divinity School professor Norman Wirzba at a Food and Faith conference in Nashville in 2014. Davis also works with the Great Lakes Initiative, an ecumenical gathering of East African leaders in reconciliation ministries, sponsored through Duke Divinity School's Center for Reconciliation. For several years, she has consulted with the Anglican Church in Sudan and South Sudan on theological education, community health, and sustainable agriculture.\n\n"}
{"id": "46893258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46893258", "title": "Ernesto Alonso filmography", "text": "Ernesto Alonso filmography\n\nThis article presents the filmography of Mexican actor Ernesto Alonso.\n"}
{"id": "10322485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10322485", "title": "Geoffrey Hodson", "text": "Geoffrey Hodson\n\nGeoffrey Hodson (12 March 1886 in Lincolnshire – 23 January 1983 in Auckland, New Zealand) was an occultist, Theosophist, mystic, Liberal Catholic priest, philosopher and esotericist, and a leading light for over 70 years in the Theosophical Society. He was educated in England.\n\nAccording to Hodson, his occult experiences began when he was about five or six years old. He had dream experiences in the half waking state and this seemed to be connected with Kundalini. Kundalini is the power of life, one of the great forces. It is also known as the Serpent Fire.\n\nHe served with distinction in the British Army as an Officer during the First World War as a tank commander, which experience seems to have prompted him to spend his life attempting to eradicate the causes of wars and suffering through his teachings and insights. Following demobilisation he married Miss Jane Carter and he joined the YMCA Secretariat. It was around this time he met a Mrs Mary De La Middleton, who said that her own Master, the Master Rakoczy, had instructed her to show him how to awaken clairvoyance when required, focus it at different levels, project energies and heal others. It was at this stage Geoffrey Hodson with his wife toured Lancashire on his motorcycle and sidecar making detailed notes on the various types of fairies and nature spirits there. This culminated when he was on holiday in the beautiful valley of Sheepscombe. There they claimed that he and his wife studied the angelic kingdom and that he received teachings from a very highly evolved angel. This was the beginning of his work with the angelic kingdom. He wrote many books about his investigations there and the angelic teachings given him throughout his life. Hodson was one of many (along with Arthur Conan Doyle) fooled by the Cottingley Fairies hoax\n\nIn 1937 he traveled to South Africa to stay with friends Mr and Mrs Quail and their daughter Ethelwynne, who was an artist. Under Hodson’s guidance she painted the illustrations for his book, The Kingdom of the Gods. Hodson then went to Australia to be with his wife Jane, who since 1929 had progressive paralysis due to multiple sclerosis. She died in 1962. He served there as president of the Blavatsky Lodge, and a Perth theosophist Miss Sandra Chase offered to take care of his wife. In 1940 he was invited by the New Zealand section to tour the main centres. While in New Zealand he became the founder and president of the New Zealand Vegetarian Society. He was also elected president of the Council of Combined Animal Welfare Organisations of New Zealand.\n\nHe was the author over fifty books (many still in print) on psychic powers, Theosophy, Spiritualism, mysticism, fairies, angels, meditation, clairvoyance, health and disease.\n\nHe also wrote over two hundred articles and radio talks. He travelled the world extensively lecturing for the Theosophical Society.\n\nHodson also served as the Director of Studies of the School of the Wisdom at the International Headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Adyar, India, for four sessions, in 1953-54, then in 1954-1955 and again in 1961. Hodson was a guest lecturer at the Krotona School of Theosophy in Ojai, California.\n\nHe was awarded the Subba Row Gold Medal in 1954 for his contributions to Theosophical Literature.\n\nHe gave his last lecture, on 4 May 1982 at HPB Lodge in Auckland, aged 96, and eight months later he died in Auckland, on January 23, 1983.\n\nWorks by Geoffrey Hodson:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26370144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26370144", "title": "George Bent", "text": "George Bent\n\nGeorge Bent, also named Ho—my-ike in Cheyenne (Cheyenne people, 1843 – May 19, 1918), was a Cheyenne who became a Confederate soldier during the American Civil War and waged war against Americans as a Cheyenne warrior afterward. He was the mixed-race son of Owl Woman, daughter of a Cheyenne chief, and the American William Bent, founder of the trading post named Bent's Fort and a trading partnership with his brothers and Ceran St. Vrain. Bent was born near present-day La Junta, Colorado, and was reared among both his mother's people, his father and other European Americans at the fort, and other whites from the age of 10 while attending boarding school in St. Louis, Missouri. He identified as Cheyenne.\n\nAfter the Indian Wars, Bent worked for the United States government as an interpreter. Starting in 1870 with the US Indian agent to the Cheyenne and Arapaho, he lived on the reservation in present-day Oklahoma, where he stayed to the end of his life. Although a member of the Cheyenne because he was born to his mother's clan, in the tension of the postwar years Bent felt an outsider to both Cheyenne and whites because of his dual heritage. Some Cheyenne blamed him for losses to communal land suffered by the tribe when it was forced to accept allotment of lands to individual households under the Dawes Act.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, Bent became an important source, or informant, for James Mooney and George Bird Grinnell, anthropologists studying and recording Cheyenne culture, as he was bilingual and knew the culture well. Anxious to get a book on the Cheyenne completed, Bent encouraged Grinnell to work with George E. Hyde, who probably wrote most of Grinnell's book \"The Fighting Cheyennes\". Through Bent's letters to him, Hyde wrote his biography: \"Life of George Bent: Written from His Letters.\" It was not published until 1968.\n\nBent was born at Bent's Fort, owned and operated by his father William Bent, a major fur trader from St. Louis, Missouri. His mother was Owl Woman, daughter of a Cheyenne chief, and he was born into her clan under the matrilineal kinship system. Bent and his three siblings grew up speaking both Cheyenne and English at home. He learned much about Cheyenne culture from his mother and her family, and in their culture was considered Cheyenne.\n\nShe died about 1847, by which time his father had already taken her two younger sisters as secondary wives, in the Cheyenne traditional way of successful men. The youngest, Island, essentially reared Owl Woman's four children. Yellow Woman had a son by William Bent; Charles Bent, a half-brother to the others, was born in 1845. These two women had both left William Bent by 1867. He married the 20-year-old Adaline Harvey in 1869, the educated mixed-race daughter of a fur trader friend from Kansas City. Their daughter (George's half sister) was born after William Bent's death later that year.\n\nWhen George was 10 years old, his father sent him to Kansas City, Missouri to an Episcopal boarding school for a European-American education. By the time the American Civil War began, Bent was a student at Webster College near St. Louis.\n\nBent served in the Missouri State Guard with the Confederate Army, fighting at the Battle of Wilson's Creek near Springfield, Missouri, on August 10, 1861; and at the First Battle of Lexington near Lexington, Missouri, on September 20, 1861; both were Confederate victories. As a member of the 1st Missouri Cavalry Regiment, he fought at the Battle of Pea Ridge in Arkansas, March 6–8, 1862, which was a Union victory. When the Missouri cavalry was converted to infantry, Bent became attached to Landis' Battery, Missouri Light Artillery, the horse artillery of General Mathew F. Greene's Missouri Brigade; this was part of General Sterling Price's division. His artillery unit participated in the siege and retreat from Corinth, Mississippi, where it stayed behind to cover the retreat of 66,000 Confederates under the command of P.G.T. Beauregard.\n\nLater that summer, Bent either was captured or deserted. After his return to St. Louis, which was Union-controlled, he was briefly confined in the Gratiot Street Prison, but was allowed to swear an oath of allegiance to the Union and be released. His guardian, Robert Campbell, a prominent St. Louis citizen assigned to him when George was in school, had eased his way.\n\nBent returned to his father's ranch in Colorado Territory, but anti-Confederate sentiment was intense there. For safety, he went to live with his maternal Cheyenne relatives. From that time on, Bent lived among the Cheyenne and identified with them.\n\nBent was at Black Kettle's camp of Cheyenne and Arapaho at Sand Creek about 35 miles north of Lamar, Colorado, on November 29, 1864. The Indians in the camp had initiated peace negotiations with the U.S. Army, and believed they were under its protection, but Colonel John Chivington and his force of 700 Colorado volunteers attacked the village. They killed about 150 Indians. Bent's brother Charles was nearly killed by the soldiers, but was rescued by friends. Jack Smith, another young mixed-race Cheyenne man, was killed in the soldiers' attack.\n\nBent was among the Indians who fled upstream and found shelter in sandpits dug in the creek bed beneath a high bank. Wounded in the hip, he was with about 100 survivors who crossed the plains to the Indian camps on the Smoky Hill River. He was found there by his friend Edmund Guerrier, who accompanied him back to the Bent Ranch at Big Timbers, where Bent recovered. The Cheyenne and Arapaho planned revenge for the Sand Creek Massacre.\n\nThe Bent brothers and Charles' mother Yellow Woman joined the Dog Soldiers band. In January 1865, the young men rode with an Indian army of 1,000 warriors in a successful attack on Julesburg, Colorado, in which they killed many townspeople and soldiers. (See Battle of Julesburg) Most of the Cheyenne went north to join Red Cloud on the Powder River in Wyoming. Before leaving the area, they burned many homesteads in the South Platte River valley. \"At night the whole valley was lighted up with the flames of burning ranches and stage stations, but these places were soon destroyed and darkness fell on the valley.\"\n\nThroughout 1865, George Bent fought with Cheyennes, participating in the Battle of Mud Springs, and the Battle of Rush Creek, near present-day Broadwater, Nebraska, the Battle of Platte Bridge Station/Red Buttes on July 26, 1865, near present-day Casper, Wyoming, and the three-day Battle of Bone Pile Creek in August, near present-day Wright, Wyoming. In the summer, the U.S. Army sent the Powder River Expedition, under Brigadier General Patrick E. Connor into the Powder River Country to punish the Sioux, Cheyenne, and Arapaho, with orders to kill all men and boys over the age of 12. On September 8, 1865, the Bents were camped with the Cheyenne's at the confluence of the Big and Little Powder Rivers, near present-day Broadus, Montana, when soldiers were sighted only a few miles away. The soldiers were the Eastern and Central columns of the Powder River Expedition under Colonel Nelson D. Cole, and Brevet Brigadier General Samuel Walker respectively. The Cheyennes led by Roman Nose, attacked the moving column to protect their village, in what would later be called the Battle of Dry Creek/Ford, or Roman Nose's Fight, possibly preventing another Sand Creek Massacre.\n\nBent later wrote about this period, saying he believed that the \"savages\" in the conflict were the U.S. soldiers. Bent participated in 27 Cheyenne war parties, but never gave many details about his personal role in the Indian wars. Many Dog Soldiers, including George's brother Charles, were killed in 1867, at the Battle of Summit Springs in Colorado.\n\nBent began his return to a peaceful world as an interpreter at the Medicine Lodge Treaty Council of October 1867. Bent impressed the U.S. soldiers and officials with his negotiating skills. Soon after, his brother Charles, a well-known and feared Cheyenne warrior, was killed in a skirmish with soldiers.\n\nIn 1868, Bent was hired by the U.S. government as an interpreter, first at Fort Larned and later for the newly created Indian Agency headed by Brinton Darlington, the first US Indian Agent for the Cheyenne and Arapaho. In 1870, the Agency was located at El Reno, Oklahoma. Bent lived on the Cheyenne and Arapaho reservation near the town of Colony and worked as a U.S. government employee for most of the rest of his life.\n\nBecause of his knowledge of both European-American and Cheyenne culture, Bent became a prominent and powerful person on the reservation. During the first several years, he tried to moderate hostilities between the two cultures. He learned that, as a half-breed or mixed-race man, he was an outsider to both.\nBent developed a serious problem with alcohol during this period. He became prosperous by assisting European-American cattlemen to obtain grazing leases on Indian land. Because of his influence peddling, he lost the trust of some Cheyenne and was fired as a U.S. interpreter. But in 1890, he was the crucial go-between to persuade the Cheyenne and Arapaho to accept plans for allotment of land by individual households under the Dawes Act. Presented as a way for Indians to assimilate by adopting Euro-American farming styles, the allotment plan caused the loss of considerable tribal land. The former communal tribal land was allocated to households of members, and any remaining land was declared \"surplus\" by the government, making it available for sale to non-Indian parties. Many Cheyenne and Arapaho held Bent responsible for the ill effects of the transition to allotments, including the loss of substantial amounts of tribal lands from the reservation. Allotment would have happened without Bent's assistance, but he was considered partially responsible.\n\nBent was married three times. He first married Magpie (d. May 10, 1886), a daughter of Black Kettle of the Southern Cheyenne tribe. His other wives were Kiowa Woman (d. 1913) and Standing Out (d. 1945). With them Bent had a total of six children: Mary, William, Daisy, Lucy, George Jr., and Charlie.\n\nBy 1901 Bent was at a low stage in his life. He had stopped drinking, but his influence with the Cheyenne was largely gone, as was his earlier prosperity. His meeting with the anthropologist George Bird Grinnell was beneficial for both. Grinnell realized that Bent, who spoke both Cheyenne and English, was literate, and could write passable English, would be invaluable for his research into Cheyenne culture. (Bent had been an informant of James Mooney earlier, but he had little respect for Mooney.) Bent told Grinnell what he knew and arranged interviews with other Cheyenne for what he did not know.\n\nHe wanted the story of the Cheyenne told in a book. In Bent's opinion, Grinnell was too slow to finish his book about the Cheyenne. Bent began collaborating with the deaf, nearly blind, and reclusive George E. Hyde. Eventually, at Bent's recommendation, Hyde became a ghost writer for Grinnell and probably wrote most of \"The Fighting Cheyennes\", published in 1915. Grinnell mentioned Bent as a source in the book, but did not give him full credit for his assistance and contributions. Later, Grinnell wrote \"The Cheyenne Indians: Their History and Lifeways\", in which he was more generous in crediting Bent. Cheyenne culture is unusually well described in Grinnell's books, thanks largely to Bent's insights and Hyde's writing.\n\nAlthough the two never met, Hyde and Bent became close collaborators. Bent wrote 340 letters to Hyde between 1904 and 1918. From these letters, Hyde distilled a book, \"Life of George Bent: Written from His Letters\". Hyde finished the book but, still unknown in the anthropological fraternity, he could not find a publisher. Hyde and Bent's collaboration is the principal source for the Cheyenne side of the wars of the 1860s and subsequent events.\n\nBent died on May 19, 1918, at Washita, Oklahoma in the 1918 flu pandemic. At the time, his dream of a well-written book about the history and culture of the Cheyenne was unrealized.\n\nIn 1968, George E. Hyde's book, \"Life of George Bent: Written from His Letters\" was published, and in 2005, David F. Halaas, and Andrew E. Masich published a book on George Bent, entitled \"Halfbreed: The Remarkable True Story of George Bent-- Caught Between the Worlds of the Indian and the White Man\".\n\n"}
{"id": "241909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241909", "title": "Gohan", "text": "Gohan\n\nGohan's name comes from the Japanese word , a continuation of the naming scheme of foods by Toriyama. Rice, being a grain, is not normally considered to be a vegetable, even though it is a common food. However, as the word \"vegetable\" is a culinary term, and not a botanical term, the name can also continue the naming scheme for Saiyan characters, which derives names from puns on vegetables.\n\nIn conceptualizing for Gohan's character, Toriyama originally included glasses or a jacket to his apparel, and commonly, his hair is spiked up as seen in the final design. With the ending of the Cell arc, Gohan was meant to replace his father as the protagonist. However, Toriyama later decided against it, finding the character unsuited for the role in comparison to his father.\n\nAs opposed to full-blooded Saiyans, whose hair stays the same from birth, Gohan's is drawn at varying lengths, and changes markedly in style. Initially, Gohan is illustrated garbed in a surcoat with kanji 孫, fixed on the front and the four-star Dragon Ball fitted on top of his hat. Piccolo later supplies him with a \"keikogi\" fashioned after Goku's, but substitutes the symbol with his own demon character \"\". Normally thereafter, Gohan is drawn with a \"keikogi\" modeled after Piccolo's own. On Namek, Gohan is portrayed in battle armor worn by Freeza's henchmen, having been given it by Vegeta in preparation for their encounter with Freeza. Prior to his second fight with Majin Buu, Gohan asks Kibito for an outfit resembling his father's, and is then drawn in a \"keikogi\" identical to Goku's. Gohan, from the alternate future, is dressed in a \"keikogi\" similar to that of his father's, and has a long scar across his left eye.\n\nGohan possesses superhuman strength and durability, as well as superhuman speed and reflexes, as seen during his training with his younger brother Goten. As a child, Gohan is depicted with an immense amount of hidden potential, which at first only revealed itself when he experienced fierce rage or distress. The vastness of this potential is shown consistently throughout the series as he ages and learns to master his powers from constant training and battles, the earliest example was during his short fight with Raditz. Gohan's potential was unlocked twice in the series: first by the Namekian Grand Elder, and then fully unlocked by Old Kaiō-shin, which sees his power level rise to new heights, capable of easily overwhelming the seemingly invincible Majin Boo.\n\nAs a Half-Saiyan, he has the ability to become an Oozaru, a gigantic ape-like creature, by absorbing waves from a full moon. He lost this ability after his tail was cut by Piccolo, and later Vegeta. He was the third youngest Saiyan to achieve the Super Saiyan transformation at the age of nine whilst training and surpassing his father Goku in the Room of Spirit and Time (hyperbolic time chamber) and as a display of his hidden potential which he unlocked during his training with his father, Gohan becomes the first Saiyan in the series to become a Super Saiyan 2 during his battle against Cell. Though Gohan had gotten much weaker due to not training after the Cell Games, he became stronger than he ever has after his potential was unlocked from Old Kaiō-shin. Gohan with this power up was even stronger than Super Saiyan 3 Goku and Super Saiyan 3 Gotenks since he was able to dominate Super Buu with ease without transforming.\n\nEver since this fight, Gohan has given up on fighting and has continually gotten weaker to the point that he can't use his Super Saiyan transformations without straining himself. Gohan can still hold his own against Freeza's soldiers, Shisami, and Tagoma in his base form and overpower them when he transforms into a Super Saiyan. After Freeza's attack on Earth, Gohan returned to training with Piccolo. During his training with Piccolo before the start of the Tournament of Power, Gohan is pushed beyond his limits and manages to unlock his hidden power once again, becoming stronger than ever before.\n\nGohan has the ability to freely manipulate a life-force energy known as \"ki\" to fly using . He can also concentrate his \"ki\" to fire blasts of energy, such as the or the . Gohan has displayed the use of his ki in a defensive manner, such as generating protective energy shields. Both as a child and an adult, Gohan is known to be a capable swordsman, as well as an adept teacher.\n\nGohan is voiced in the original Japanese anime and all other media by Masako Nozawa. Nozawa, who also voices Goku, revealed that she did not know she would be playing Gohan until receiving the script on the day of recording his debut episode. Despite having to voice Gohan, Goku, Goten and Bardock, Nozawa claims she is able to instantly get into the respective character simply upon seeing their image.\n\nIn Funimation and Saban Entertainment's initial 1996 English dub of Dragon Ball Z, Gohan is voiced by Saffron Henderson. Henderson reprised her role in AB Group and Westwood Media's alternate dub for the UK and Canadian markets in 2000. Jillian Michaels replaced Henderson in the later part of the Cell arc, while his adult version is voiced by Brad Swaile. Henderson believed her experience playing Goku in Dragon Ball made it simple to develop Gohan's voice, though stressed performing as him was \"tiring\" due to the action of the series requiring louder volumes. She also remembered scheduling conflicts thanks to her wedding, setting the stage for the studio to audition other voice actors for the part of Gohan, and being disappointed at the role being recast.\n\nIn Funimation's in-house dub, Gohan's child incarnation is voiced by Stephanie Nadolny for various media until 2010 and Colleen Clinkenbeard for \"Dragon Ball Kai\" and later media while his adult incarnation is voiced by Kyle Hebert for almost all various media and Dameon Clarke as \"Future Gohan\" for some episodes and the \"History of Trunks\" TV special. Nadolny was called in to audition in 1999, when the English dub of \"Dragon Ball Z\" was recast. She said her most challenging time voicing the character was during his fight against Cell where she had to make him sound as \"deep, tough and as much like a man as possible.\" Nadolny's voice was strained during the recordings, causing her to sometimes leave the studio in pain. Hebert said that his roles as Gohan and the narrator of \"Dragon Ball Z\" are close to him as they kickstarted his career. He also found \"Battle of Gods\" to be \"genuinely touching\" outside of its fighting, citing Gohan finding out that he was going to be a father among the moments he found sentimental and was happy to return to the franchise when reprising his role in \"Resurrection 'F\"', also expressing interest in redoing his lines in Dragon Ball Kai as he had more experience.\n\nIn the English dub of the video game \"\", Gohan is voiced by Lex Lang. In the English dub of Dragon Ball GT produced by Blue Water Studios distributed in Canada, he was voiced by Scott Roberts. In the English dub of movies distributed in Europe by AB Groupe, Gohan was voiced by Jodi Forrest, with David Gasman voicing Gohan as an adult in \"The History of Trunks\". In the Toonami Asia dub produced by Bang Zoom! Entertainment of \"Dragon Ball Super\", Gohan here is voiced by Chris Hackney. In a rare English dub of the anime produced in the Philippines by Creative Products Corporation, Gohan was voiced by Ethel Lizano who also directed that dub. In the 1996 dub of the double feature combining \"Cooler's Revenge\" and \"The Return of Cooler\", Lizano was replaced with E.J. Galang, who was 12 years old at the time he voiced Gohan.\n\nGohan is introduced as the five year-old son of the series protagonist Goku, named after his adoptive great-grandfather. Described as well-mannered and reserved, Gohan's story begins following his abduction by the extraterrestrial Saiyan named Raditz, who is also his uncle. While Goku is pinned to the ground, Gohan's extreme distress explodes with the release of his dormant power, which allows him to injure Raditz. Piccolo then takes Gohan away following the fight and Goku's death, and trains him for the upcoming battle against the two other Saiyans, Vegeta and Nappa, though Piccolo is aware that training the son of his greatest enemy will be a risk. His tutelage under Piccolo forms a deep bond between the two characters, with Piccolo ultimately sacrificing himself to save Gohan during their fight with Nappa. After Vegeta's defeat, Gohan travels with Bulma and Krillin to planet Namek to use the Dragon Balls there, as the Dragon Balls on Earth had turned to stone due to the Earth's god Kami's death. After succeeding in gathering the Dragon Balls, Gohan and the others wish Piccolo back to life, causing Kami and the Dragon Balls to be returned. Gohan, along with Krillin and Vegeta, are then forced into an encounter with Frieza, who seeks the Dragon Balls for immortality. Shortly after the fight with Freeza begins, Krillin is impaled by one of Freeza's horns. Freeza stops Gohan as he tries to save Krillin, who has now been thrown into the ocean below, and he mocks him, saying it is pointless to try to save his friend since he and Vegeta are both about to die. Gohan is extremely angered by being unable to save Krillin and attacks Freeza without hesitation. He manages to knock Freeza into a small island below, and then he blasts him with a series of energy blasts before ending the attack with a \"Masenko\". Later on in the fight, as Piccolo is getting repeatedly blasted from Freeza, who is now in his third form, Gohan blasts Freeza with another \"Masenko\", and once again pushes him back with it. Freeza is able to send it back at Gohan without taking any damage, but he is once again shocked that a child could produce such an attack. Shortly after this, Freeza transforms into his original and most powerful form. Once he does this he immediately kills Dende, a young Namekian who had been secretly healing Gohan, Krillin, Piccolo and Vegeta. Gohan is outraged by this and unleashes all of his power against Freeza. However, he is unable to land even a single blow. After Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan and defeats Freeza, the planet Namek explodes and Goku escapes while Freeza is left with serious injuries, Freeza is found in space by his father (King Cold) and is turned into a cyborg. Gohan is shown to settle back into school life on Earth, waiting for Goku to return home from Namek.\nAfter Trunks kills Freeza and his father King Cold then tells Goku about the Androids, Gohan goes into the wilderness with Goku and Piccolo to train for the upcoming threat. After Vegeta kills Android #19, Dr. Gero (Android #20) activate Androids #17 and #18, and Cell is discovered, Gohan enters the Room of Spirit and Time with Goku where they train for 1 year (1 day on earth, however in their case according to Mr. Popo, Goku and Gohan still had 3 hours left in the room, but they came out having finished their training earlier than expected). Gohan makes the jump to Super Saiyan while he is in the chamber and after they emerge, both Goku and Gohan retain the physical characteristics of a Super Saiyan without any of the drawbacks of its form (increased aggression, energy loss, etc.). After Goku initially fights Cell but realizes later that he cannot defeat him, Gohan is called to fight to the surprise of everyone else and Cell. During the fight, Gohan asks Cell to stop the Cell Games tournament and then he tells him about his power. Cell, instead of heeding Gohan's warning, attacks him in an effort to force Gohan to show his true power. Gohan holds his own for a while until Cell becomes impatient and bored. He releases Cell Juniors on the other fighters to provoke Gohan from attacking. After Android #16 is murdered by Cell, Gohan unleashes his rage and transforms into a Super Saiyan 2. Gohan easily defeats the Cell Juniors and proceeds to toy with Cell, now that he has a much greater power level. This backfires, however; he waits too long to finish Cell, who decides to self-destruct when transformed back to his semi-perfect form, as a last-ditch effort to destroy Gohan and the Earth. Goku, in an act of self-sacrifice, uses teleportation to take Cell to Kaio-sama's planet. Thinking Cell dead, the fighters lower their guard only to be surprised by a blast that kills Trunks. Cell returns, having regenerated from a single Cell that survived the blast, and also adopted the instant transmission technique. Right before Cell is about to finish Vegeta, Gohan intercedes which costs him the use of his left arm. As Cell charges up one final \"Kamehameha\" wave to finish the Earth, Gohan hears the voice of his father who gives him the resolve he needs to defeat Cell. They both launch large \"Kamehameha\" waves at each other, which initiates a power struggle. Cell is about to overcome Gohan when Vegeta uses his remaining energy to blast Cell, which distracts him for a moment. Gohan uses this moment to unleash all his fury into his attack, which causes it to overpower Cell's. It hits Cell full-force which disintegrates all his cells, finally killing him.\n\nThe Gohan of the alternate timeline, referred to as \"Future Gohan\", to distinguish him from the character's present-timeline incarnation, is presented in the volume #33 sidestory of the original manga, \"Trunks the Story\", in which he is shown to be the only surviving fighter; the others have all died at the hands of the androids (sans Goku due to having died from a heart virus prior to androids' arrival). Gohan is shown training Trunks to assist him in battling Androids #17 and #18. In this timeline, Gohan has become a Super Saiyan and is depicted wearing a uniform similar to his father's, one with his own kanji symbol on the back, \"Han\", . Gohan states he wears it in hopes of becoming as strong as his father one day, and is mentioned that he bears a striking resemblance to Goku when donning it. He eventually loses his left arm fighting Androids #17 and #18. He is ultimately killed by the two androids during a battle where they ganged up on Gohan, killing him with machine gun-like ki blasts.\n\nIn the present-timeline, Gohan is shown enrolled at Orange Star High School in Satan City. After foiling crimes as a Super Saiyan he earns the alias the from the public. In order to hide his identity, and with help from Bulma, he adopts a superhero persona that he dubs the . He is also in a relationship with Videl. Participating in the 25th Tenkaichi Budōkai, Gohan is depicted as having grown weaker, which the \"Daizenshū World Guide\" book explains as due to a lack of training and anger in transforming. Gohan, after having his \"chi\" absorbed by Spopovich and Yamu, pursues the two and enters Bobbidi's spaceship with the Kaiō-shin, Goku and Vegeta, where Gohan later fights with Dabura. Following Majin Buu‘s release and Gohan's defeat at his hands, Gohan is taken to the home planet of the Kaiō-shin. After pulling out the Zeta Sword (Known in the English Funimation Dub as the Z Sword) and accidentally breaking it in a training session, Gohan unwittingly releases the Old Kaiō-shin, who then performs a prolonged ceremony to unlock Gohan's latent powers. Gohan then returns to Earth and confronts Boo for a second time, and easily defeats him. However, his victory is temporary, as he is overpowered when Boo absorbs Gotenks and Piccolo. He is later absorbed by Boo. Though Goku and Vegeta manage to rescue him along with Goten, Trunks, and Piccolo, he is killed when Boo (now in his pure form) destroys the Earth. Once revived, Gohan is able to aid Goku's \"Genki-dama\" by lending his \"chi\". Following Boo's defeat and a ten-year gap, Gohan has finally become a scholar, is married with Videl and they have a daughter Pan.\n\nGohan appears in fourteen of the fifteen \"Dragon Ball Z\" films; in the , Gohan is kidnapped by Garlic Jr. due to his hat having a Dragon Ball on it and causes the villain's plan to fail when he uses his dormant power against him; in the , Gohan participates in the fight against Dr. Wheelo and frees Piccolo from further mind control; in the , Gohan unintentionally brings Turles to Earth and is forcibly made to combat his father as an Oozaru before having his tail removed; in the , Gohan attempts to fight Lord Slug's men only to be defeated; in the , Gohan watches over his father's body after Goku shields him from a blast from Cooler; in the , Gohan travels to New Namek and fights Cooler's henchmen; in the , Gohan intervenes in the battle against Android 13 by attacking him and then defending his father against the android when he tries to power the \"Genki-Dama\"; in the , Gohan tries fighting Broly but is defeated and later aids in the Saiyan's defeat by providing his energy; in the , Gohan faces Bojack and his henchmen, struggling initially before transforming into a Super Saiyan 2 and successfully terminating the invaders; in the , Gohan comes to the aid of Goten and Trunks after they are confronted by Broly, who he seemingly kills alongside his father and brother in a family \"Kamehameha\" wave; in the , Gohan combats the villains that have escaped from Other World; in the , Gohan battles Hirudegarn following his appearance; in the , Gohan is defeated by Beerus and provides his aid in transforming his father into a Super Saiyan God; and lastly, in the , Gohan confronts the resurrected Freeza and avoids being killed with the majority of the Earth's population thanks to a save by Whis. After the latter two films' events, Gohan decides to resume his training with Piccolo. Following a short time of civilian life, where he is unable to participate in the Universe 6 vs Universe 7 tournament thanks to a scheduling conflict, and Gohan turns down a new job, he is reunited with Trunks, being unaware of his reason to return to the past until after Goku, Trunks and Vegeta have had multiple encounters with Goku Black and he goes in search of his father. After Pan gets sick, Gohan has Shenlong to cure her and Gohan later follows Goku around after Hit targets Goku. Gohan becomes a stuntman for a movie featuring his Great Saiyaman persona against Mr. Satan, defeating Watagash and being attacked by Jaco, who thinks Gohan is Watagash's new host. Gohan then defeats a Watagash possessed Barry Karn. \n\nCiting a desire to protect his family, Gohan participates in Zen-Oh-sama's Universal Survival tournament for the Universe 7 team. In the exhibition round, Gohan is matched against Universe 9's Lavender, who fires a mist into his eyes that blinds him. Gohan powers up, causing the poison to accelerate through his body, and he knocks out Lavender before being unable to fight any further and the match being declared a draw. While Gohan and Goku recruit fighters for the Tournament of Power, Gohan is defeated by Krillin a sparring match after being blinded with the \"Solar Flare x 100\". Gohan's training with Piccolo, during which Piccolo chastises Gohan for being reckless as a result of wanting to protect his family, concludes with Gohan reaching the same power he had in his encounter with Boo and the two agreeing to develop combination moves. Gohan requests Goku and Tien fight against Piccolo and himself. Gohan joins Goku in taking the fight seriously, battling Tien and Goku alone while Piccolo charges a technique and is defeated when Goku uses the Kaio-Ken technique as a Super Saiyan Blue, though his impression on Goku leads the latter to assign Gohan as the leader of their Universe 7 team. In the Tournament of Power, Gohan defeats Universe 6's Botamo, Universe 10's Obuni, Universe 6's Saonel and Pirina, and Universe 3's Anilaza before Universes 7 and 11 become the only remaining teams in the tournament. Gohan initially partners with Android 17 to battle Toppo, firing a \"Kamehameha\" wave at Android 17 and Toppo while they are inside Android 17's barrier in effort to ring them out, though Gohan retracts the beam out of concern for Android 17. Gohan breaks away from the fight with Toppo and comes to Frieza's aid against Dyspo, Gohan holding Dyspo down and the two being blasted out of bounds by Frieza.\n\nIn filler episodes of \"Dragon Ball Z\", while training for the Saiyans, Gohan makes friends with C-6 and a dinosaur. During the Namek arc, Gohan also encounters the Mirror spaceship and a fake version of Namek, where he, Kuririn and Bulma collect Dragon Balls during a distraction, and prevent their ship from being stolen. In the Garlic Jr. arc, entirely composed of filler, Gohan is one of only a few unaffected by the Black Water Mist and after fighting his allies, he travels to the lookout where he kills the henchmen of Garlic Jr. after they severely injure Kuririn, Gohan then sending Garlic Jr. back into the Dead Zone by destroying his power through shooting out the Makyo Star after being attacked by Piccolo and Kuririn as they pretend to be under the effects of the Black Water Mist. Leading up to the Cell Games, Gohan encounters Taopaipai, his father's old enemy, who flees from a potential battle once recognizing Gohan as Goku's son and celebrates his 11th birthday, it being shown in flashbacks how he acquires his name and how he had hidden potential within infancy. Prior to the Boo arc beginning, Gohan's high school antics are explored such as his masquerading as Great Saiyaman and his first date. After Boo is defeated, Gohan attends a party with his family.\n\nHe is featured in other \"Dragon Ball Z\" animations; in \"\", Gohan uses a \"Super Masenko\" to destroy Hatchiyack, who is killed by his combined efforts alongside Goku, Vegeta and Trunks and in \"\", Gohan meets Vegeta's younger brother Tarble after Tarble arrives on Earth, also advising Goten and Trunks in their fight against Abo and Kado.\n\nGohan appears in the anime-only sequel, \"Dragon Ball GT\" in a reduced role. He is the second Saiyan on Earth to be taken control of by Baby, who previously controlled his younger brother Goten and moved to possessing Gohan during their battle. After Vegeta becomes Baby's permanent host, the parasite transmitting himself to Vegeta during a fight between him and the possessed Gohan, Gohan remains under his influence due to Baby having implanted Tuffle parasite inside of him while he was originally possessed. After regaining his will, he assists his father in defeating Baby, donating his energy and tearfully bids farewell to his former mentor Piccolo as the latter dies alongside the Earth. He then participates in the fights against Super 17 and Omega Shenron.\n\nGohan has performed multiple songs, his voice actor Masako Nozawa singing in reference to his character, the first of these being the song \"The World's Greatest Gohan\" released on the 1989 album \"Dragon Ball Z Hit Song Collection\", Gohan singing about how good he feels. The second was \"I Lo~ve Mr. Piccolo\" in the album \"Dragon Ball Z Hit Song Collection III: Space Dancing\", released in 1990, Gohan singing Piccolo praises and speculating on what species he is. Another song, \"Feeling of Whistling\", debuted on the 1991 album \"Dragon Ball Z Hit Song Collection 6: BP∞ Battle Points Unlimited\". The 1991 album \"Dragon Ball Z Hit Song Collection 8: Character Special 2\" features the song \"\"I•ke•na•i Oo-La-La Magic\", where Chi-Chi forces Gohan to sing a duet with her after she feels left out from his adventures with Goku, also intending to enter the local karaoke circuit with Gohan.\n\nGohan has made appearances in non-\"Dragon Ball\" material. In the 2003 interactive feature , Gohan and Kuririn attempt to save visitors of at Fuji Television's orb section from drowning, while Goku battles Freeza. In the 2013 special , Gohan cheers on Goku in his match against Monkey D. Luffy and Toriko.\n\nSince \"Dragon Ball Z\" began syndication in the U.S. in 1996, Gohan has also appeared in American media. Gohan has been used in promotional merchandising at fast-food chain Burger King, and collectible cards, such as the \"Dragon Ball Z\" Collectible Card Game, have featured Gohan frequently. Gohan is referenced in the song \"Goku\" by Soulja Boy Tell 'Em, where he brags that he looks and feels like Gohan and a few other \"Dragon Ball\" related characters. Gohan, along with Goku, is parodied in the \"Robot Chicken\" episode \"Easter Basket\". In \"The Move\", an episode of \"The Amazing World of Gumball\", Gumball gains hair identical to Super Saiyan 2 Gohan when transforming into a Super Saiyan. Gohan appears for a scene in a parody of the film \"Moneyball\" in an episode of \"Mad\" being drafted by Billy Beane.\nIn the 1992 Video game \"Dragon Ball: Get Together! Goku World\", Gohan along with Goku, Trunks, Bulma, and Kuririn travel back in time to examine events in the past. \n\nIn the 2004 video game \"Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors\", Gohan comes to Goku's aid against the androids and defeats Android 18. After Goku passes away from a heart disease, Gohan inherits his role as Earth's primary protector. Gohan confronts Dr. Gero, who he defeats and is warned by of an upcoming threat from Cell, the latter announcing the Cell Games after being revealed and Gohan training with Piccolo in the Room of Spirit and Time to prepare. After Gohan and Piccolo struggle against Cell, and Piccolo sacrifices himself to save Gohan, Gohan unleashes his hidden power and destroys Cell. In the 2005 video game \"Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors 2\", after his defeat of Cell, Gohan is recruited by Trunks to assist him with defeating the androids in his timeline. After defeating Android 18, Gohan and Trunks confront and defeat Cell. The two travel to Dr. Gero's laboratory and defeat various clones of the android and destroy the computer that created them. Years later, he encounters Cooler when the latter comes to Earth searing for the Saiyan that defeated his brother Frieza. Piccolo is turned evil when taking a blast from Bobbidi to protect Gohan, who is forced to fight Piccolo before the latter flees. Gohan later confronts Piccolo and defeats him.\n\nIn the 2006 game \"Dragon Ball Z: Shin Budokai\", Gohan confronts Frieza after the latter is resurrected and unsuccessfully tries donning his Great Saiyaman persona, becoming worn out in the process of fighting him before Frieza departs. \nGohan then confronts Cooler after seeing him search for a Dragon Ball and bests him in battle, before Cooler escapes with the Dragon Ball using the \"Shunkan Idō\".\nLater, influence by Janemba allows Gohan to kill Cell with ease and nearly become consumed with evil energy before Goku's intervention. In the 2007 game \"Dragon Ball Z: Shin Budokai - Another Road\", Gohan travels to Trunks' timeline to assist him with the Majin Boo threat. and fights Janemba while searching for the timeline's version of himself to pull the Zeta Sword. Gohan meets Pikkon and his grandfather Bardock for the first time.\n\nIn the 2010 arcade game \"Dragon Ball Heroes\", Gohan attains both the Super Saiyan 3, the result of continued training with Piccolo after the Cell Games, and Super Saiyan 4 forms. \n\nIn the 2015 game \"\", Gohan serves as a mentor with Videl, teaching the player moves. In the Saiyan arc, the player saves Gohan from being killed by Raditz; in the Freeza arc, Gohan being left to fight Freeza alone causes Goku to rush to his aid instead of finishing healing; in the Cell arc, Gohan receives a Villainous Mode power-up from Towa and the player helps him defeat Villainous Mode Cell; and in the epilogue of the game, the player faces Gohan in Villainous Mode. In the 2016 game \"Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2\", the player is commanded to prevent any intervention in the fight between Goku and Cell, and after Gohan transforms into a Super Saiyan 2, Trunks notes that the timeline has been altered by the continued presence of the Cell Juniors. After the player defends Gohan from the Cell Juniors, a portal transfers multiple Metal Coolers into the arena, which the player defeats before departing for Namek while Gohan continues fighting Cell. The player returns to help Gohan battle Cell, whose power remains enhanced by Towa's magic. In the alternate timeline, Gohan is confronted by Android 16, who seeks to kill him for being Goku's son. Gohan realizes his strength and urges the player to leave while he holds him off before the two defeat Android 16 and are approached by Mira, who takes interest in Gohan's potential. Gohan and the player are outclassed by Mira, leading Trunks to conclude that the two will die and travel to the scene of the fight. After Trunks declares that he will not let Mira kill Gohan and Mira flees, Gohan realizes that Trunks is from the future and tells him he is proud of him, though mentions that 17 and 18 are attacking. Trunks is tempted to prevent him from going to the fight, knowing that he will die and that it will change history, but is stopped by the player.\n\nIn the 2018 game \"Dragon Ball FighterZ\", an unconscious Gohan is found by Goku, Piccolo, and Krillin, and after waking up, joins their quest to combat the clones. He later participates in destroying Android 21 by firing a \"Masenko\" at her. In the game's second arc, Gohan is found by Goku, Frieza, and Cell, and is skeptical of the latter two when being told of their alliance with the heroes.\n\nGohan has also appeared in crossover games such as \"Battle Stadium D.O.N\", \"Jump Super Stars\" and \"Jump Ultimate Stars\" as a playable character.\n\nIn 1993, Gohan placed first in a \"Dragon Ball\" character popularity poll voted on by \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" readers, and was also voted the third most popular character by fans of the series for the 2004 book \"Dragon Ball Forever\". Due to the popularity of Gohan, other merchandise, such as action figures, video games, and clothing have featured Gohan in Japan and in various countries around the world. In an interview featured in the second \"Dragon Ball GT Perfect Files\", a companion book released in December 1997 by Shueisha's \"Jump Comics Selection\" imprint, Masako Nozawa, Gohan's voice actress, stated that her favorite episode voicing Gohan was \"Sorry, Robot-san - The Desert of Vanishing Tears\". Saffron Henderson, Gohan's original English voice actor, has stated she felt protective of the role and considers it to be one of her favorites. In addition, Gohan's original Funimation voice actor, Stephanie Nadolny has said that playing Gohan was a unique and much-loved experience. C.J. A. Glover of \"Moviepilot\" ranked Gohan his third favorite comic character, admitting Gohan \"has always been somewhat of an idol to me\" as he related to bottling up his anger and being a gentle person that, when snapping, \"would let loose and it would be hard to bottle it back up again.\" In conclusion, Glover wrote that Gohan was definitely \"one of my favorite anime and manga characters ever.\" Gohan's relationship with mentor Piccolo during the Saiyan arc was praised, being seen as \"complex\" and \"culminating in a truly emotional and inspiring moment that one doesn't often expect from your average animated series.\" Tomoko Hiroki from Bandai Namco considered Gohan his favorite character from the series.\nMost of Gohan's praise is derived from his role in the Cell arc of \"Dragon Ball Z\". IGN writer D. F. Smith liked how during the Cell Games, Gohan has more screentime than Goku, and praised his scenes as one of the biggest moments from said story arc. Theron Martin from Anime News Network celebrated Gohan's development in the Cell Games as he had grown up and become stronger. The character's battles against Cell during the arc and his transformation into a Super Saiyan 2 were positively received as some of the best in the entire series, the fight additionally being praised for its animation. Both Anime Focus and John Begley believed \"Dragon Ball Z\" could have ended with Gohan's defeat of Cell, the latter reasoning concluding it there would have \"provided it a sense of poignancy and closure that retroactively would have provided a greater sense of depth and purpose.\" Luke Ryan Baldock of The Hollywood News felt Gohan's progression was the focus of the Cell Games and that he had begun to match his father Goku in ability, calling their relationship \"a fascinating one to watch unfold.\" Reviewer Nick Hartel expressed that the \"continuing elevation of Gohan\" pleased him and the last episodes of the Cell storyline \"properly sees this is paid off from a narrative standpoint.\" Reviewer Todd Douglass Jr. wrote that the series split its focus between Goku and Gohan during the start of the series as they grew on their own, finding it to be \"an interesting way to handle the flow of story but also important because it shows Gohan's growth as a person and warrior.\"\n\nGohan's role and character in the latter part of the series was met with more mixed reviews. Reviewer Michael Zupan wrote of his disappointment with the character, \"Gohan was once the most promising warrior in the galaxy, with the potential to even best his father, Goku… and this is where he's at seven years later? Dressing up in a green dress, black tights and a Lost in Space helmet to put the beat down on robbers?\"\nAnime Focus found humor in his Great Saiyaman guise and his \"clumsy but earnest\" relationship with Videl, but thought it \"mostly uninspired and draggy and feels very flat after the high flying antics of previous arcs.\" Reviewer Brad Stephenson argued that the character growing older and becoming more \"emotionally complex\" provided \"Dragon Ball Z\" \"with a true sense of progression and meaning.\" While controversial, lighthearted and more casual fans of the show tend to enjoy the Saiyaman saga due to its comedic tone and way of portraying larger than life figures in relatable real life situations. Josh Begley enjoyed Gohan trying to find his place in high school and his role as big brother to Goten, but thought his Great Saiyaman guise was not comedic and became embarrassed on the character's behalf. Anime Focus was impressed with his fight against Majin Boo after he was powered up, calling it a \"rare chance for him to flex his muscles\" by giving Majin Boo \"an impressive beatdown\". Gohan ranked first on The Artifice writer Santiago Rashad's list \"Top Ten Misused Dragon Ball Characters\". Rashad argued that the character's role in the series had suffered from the backlash by fans not wanting him to become the protagonist following his defeat of Cell as he expressed: \"He was never accepted by the fans, and thus the show that was meant to be his never became his. His story became the b-plot and he was relegated to being a relief pitcher after being the clutch closer for Cell.\" \n\nSam Leach from Anime News Network noted that fans of the series tend to joke Piccolo is a better paternal figure to Gohan than his actual father, Goku, and felt that \"Dragon Ball Super\" emphasized it more when Piccolo started training him again. On the other hand, Leach criticized how \"Super\" tries to teach \"life lessons\" to a mature Gohan. The fact that Piccolo calls him \"arrogant\", despite Gohan's kindness and humility, was seen as a bad plot point by the reviewer.\n"}
{"id": "1545265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545265", "title": "Herman Cain", "text": "Herman Cain\n\nHerman Cain (born December 13, 1945) is an American politician and author, business executive, radio host, syndicated columnist, and Tea Party activist from Georgia. He was a candidate for the 2012 U.S. Republican Party presidential nomination.\n\nCain grew up in Georgia and graduated from Morehouse College in 1967 with a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics. Cain pursued graduate studies at Purdue University and graduated with a Master of Science in Computer Science in 1971, while also working full-time for the U.S. Department of the Navy. In 1977, he joined Pillsbury Company in Minneapolis where he later became vice president. During the 1980s, his success as a business executive at Burger King prompted Pillsbury Company to appoint him as chairman and CEO of Godfather's Pizza, in which capacity he served from 1986 to 1996.\n\nCain was chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Omaha Branch from 1989 to 1991. He was deputy chairman, from 1992 to 1994, and chairman, from 1995 to 1996, of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. In 1995, Cain was appointed by Newt Gingrich to the Kemp Commission, and was a senior economic adviser to the Bob Dole presidential campaign. Cain became the CEO of the National Restaurant Association, in which he served as president and CEO from 1996 to 1999. During the presidency of Bill Clinton, Cain publicly opposed the Clinton health care plan of 1993, about which he questioned the president at a town hall meeting. Cain has served as a member of the board of directors of several companies, including Aquila, Inc., Nabisco, Whirlpool, Reader's Digest, and AGCO.\n\nIn May 2011, Cain announced his presidential candidacy. By the fall, his proposed 9–9–9 tax plan and debating performances had made him the Republican front-runner and he briefly led President Obama in some polls. In November, however, his campaign struggled with allegations of sexual misconduct—all denied by Cain—and he announced its suspension on December 3. At the end of 2011, the Pew Research Center reported that, of the Republican candidates, \"Herman Cain was the most covered candidate\" during the year. On May 15, 2012, Cain endorsed Mitt Romney.\n\nHerman Cain was born in Memphis, Tennessee, to Lenora (Davis) Cain, a cleaning woman and domestic worker, and Luther Cain Jr., who was raised on a farm and worked as a barber and janitor, as well as a chauffeur for The Coca-Cola Company president Robert W. Woodruff. Cain has said that as he was growing up, his family was \"poor but happy.\" Cain related that his mother taught him about her belief that \"success was not a function of what you start out with materially, but what you start out with spiritually.\" His father worked three jobs to own his own home—something he achieved during Cain's childhood—and to see his two sons graduate.\n\nCain grew up on the west side of Atlanta, Georgia, attending school and the Rev. Cameron M. Alexander's Antioch Baptist Church North in the neighborhood now known as The Bluff. Eventually Cain's father saved enough money and the family moved to a modest brick home on Albert Street in the Collier Heights neighborhood. He attended Archer (public) High School, graduating in 1963.\n\nCain married Gloria Cain (née Etchison), of Atlanta, soon after her graduation from Morris Brown College in 1968. Gloria Cain is a homemaker, with experience as a teacher and a librarian. The couple have two children and three grandchildren.\n\nIn 2006 Cain was diagnosed with Stage IV cancer in his colon and metastases to his liver and given a 30 percent chance of survival. Cain underwent surgery and chemotherapy following the diagnosis, and has since reported that he is in remission.\n\nDisclosures filed during his campaign in 2011 categorized Cain's wealth at that time as being between $2.9 and $6.6 million, with Cain's combined income for both 2010 and 2011 being between $1.1 and $2.1 million.\n\nCain also serves as an associate minister at Antioch Baptist Church North in Atlanta, which he joined at the age of 10. The church is part of the National Baptist Convention and is politically liberal and theologically conservative; the church's senior pastor, Rev. Cameron M. Alexander, does not share Cain's political philosophy.\n\nCain received a master of science in computer science from Purdue University in 1971 while he also worked full-time as a ballistics analyst for the U.S. Department of the Navy as a civilian.\n\nAfter completing his master's degree from Purdue, Cain left the Department of the Navy and began working for The Coca-Cola Company in Atlanta as a computer systems analyst. In 1977, he moved to Minneapolis to join Pillsbury, soon becoming director of business analysis\nin its restaurant and foods group in 1978.\n\nAt age 36 Cain was assigned in the 1980s to analyze and manage 400 Burger King stores in the Philadelphia area. At the time, Burger King was a Pillsbury subsidiary. Under Cain, his region posted strong improvement in three years. According to a 1987 account in the \"Minneapolis Star Tribune\", Pillsbury's then-president Win Wallin said, \"He was an excellent bet. Herman always seemed to have his act together.\" At Burger King, Cain \"established the BEAMER program, which taught our employees, mostly teenagers, how to make our patrons smile\" by smiling themselves. It was a success: \"Within three months of the program's initiation, the sales trend was moving steadily higher.\"\n\nCain's success at Burger King prompted Pillsbury to appoint him president and CEO of another subsidiary, Godfather's Pizza. On his arrival on April 1, 1986, Cain told employees, \"I'm Herman Cain and this ain't no April Fool's joke. We are not dead. Our objective is to prove to Pillsbury and everyone else that we will survive.\" Godfather's Pizza was performing poorly, having slipped in ranks of pizza chains from third in 1985 to fifth in 1988. Under Cain's leadership, Godfather's closed approximately 200 restaurants and eliminated several thousand jobs, and by doing so returned to profitability. In a leveraged buyout in 1988, Cain, executive vice president and COO Ronald B. Gartlan, and a group of investors bought Godfather's from Pillsbury.\n\nCain served as chairman of the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Omaha Branch from January 1, 1989, to December 31, 1991. He became a member of the board of directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City in 1992. He served as deputy chairman from January 1, 1992, to December 31, 1994, and then as its chairman until August 19, 1996, when he resigned to become active in national politics.\n\nCain left Godfather's Pizza in 1996 and moved to Washington, D.C. From 1996 to 1999 he served as CEO of the National Restaurant Association, a trade group and lobbying organization for the restaurant industry, on whose board of directors he had previously served. Cain's lobbying work for the association led to a number of connections to Republican lawmakers and politicians. Under Cain's leadership, the Association lobbied against increases to the minimum wage, mandatory health care benefits, regulations against smoking, and lowering the blood alcohol limit that determines whether one is driving under the influence.\n\nCain was on the board of directors of several companies, including Aquila, Inc., Nabisco, Whirlpool, Reader's Digest, and AGCO, Inc.\n\nAfter Cain's term with the restaurant advocacy group ended in 1999, he returned to Omaha for about a year, then moved to his hometown of Atlanta in 2000.\n\nCain writes a syndicated op-ed column, which is distributed by the North Star Writers Group.\n\nCain appeared in the 2009 documentary \"An Inconvenient Tax\". From 2008, until February 2011, Cain hosted \"The Herman Cain Show\" on Atlanta talk radio station WSB. On January 19, 2012, Cain began working for WSB again by providing daily commentaries, while occasionally filling in for Erick Erickson and Neal Boortz.\n\nOn October 1, 2012, Cain began writing weekly online columns for the media organization Newsmax, in a series titled \"9-9-9 To Save America.\"\n\nCain took over Boortz's radio talk show on January 21, 2013, upon Boortz's retirement. The program is heard weekdays on WSB from 9 a.m. to Noon. The show was dropped from the Westwood One Radio Network in December 2016 in favor of The Chris Plante Show, continuing to air in limited syndication through WSB's owner, Cox Radio.\n\nOn February 15, 2013, Fox News Channel announced Cain would join the network as a contributor.\n\nOn April 19, CM manager Carrie Carroll announced that Herman Cain has joined her shop under PM Mission Command, working out of the CTSF, Ft Hood, Texas, office.\n\nCain received the 1996 Horatio Alger Award and has received honorary degrees from Creighton University, Johnson & Wales University, Morehouse College, the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, the New York City College of Technology, Purdue University, Suffolk University, and Tougaloo College.\n\nBecause of his Christian ethic applied to his business acumen, Cain was profiled in \"The Entrepreneur's Creed\", written by Mike Hamel and published by Broadman & Holman, which spotlighted notable executives, including Jerry Colangelo (former owner of the Phoenix Suns, Arizona Diamondbacks). In the book, Cain is referred to as \"the Colin Powell of American capitalism,\" according to former presidential candidate and football star, Jack Kemp. Kemp stated that Cain's \"conquests won't be counted in terms of countries liberated or lives saved, but in those things that make life worth living — expanding opportunity, creating jobs and broadening horizons, not just for those he knows, but through his example, for those he'll never meet.\" Hamel notes that such a claim is remarkable, given Cain's father was a chauffeur for the CEO of Coca-Cola.\n\nCain publicly opposed the Clinton health care plan of 1993. As president-elect of the National Restaurant Association, he challenged Bill Clinton on the costs of the employer mandate contained within the bill and criticized its effect on small businesses. Bob Cohn of \"Newsweek\" described Cain as one of the primary opponents of the plan:\nJoshua Green of \"The Atlantic\" has called Cain's exchange with Clinton his \"auspicious debut on the national political stage\".\n\nConservative politician and former housing secretary Jack Kemp was so impressed with Cain's performance that he chartered a plane to Nebraska to meet Cain after the debate. Cain credits Kemp with his becoming interested in politics.\n\nCain was a senior economic adviser to the Bob Dole presidential campaign in 1996.\n\nCain briefly ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 2000; he says it was more about making political statements than winning the nomination. \"George W. Bush was the chosen one, he had the campaign DNA that followers look for.\" However, Cain went on to state, \"I believe that I had a better message and I believe that I was the better messenger.\" After ending his own campaign, however, he endorsed Steve Forbes.\n\nIn 2004 Cain ran for the U.S. Senate in Georgia and did not win in the primaries. He was pursuing the seat that came open with the retirement of Democrat Zell Miller. Cain sought the Republican nomination, facing congressmen Johnny Isakson and Mac Collins in the primary. Collins tried to paint Cain as a moderate, citing Cain's support for affirmative action programs, while Cain argued that he was a conservative, noting that he opposed the legality of abortion except when the mother's life is threatened. Cain finished second in the primary with 26.2% of the vote, ahead of Collins, who won 20.6%, but because Isakson won 53.2% of the vote, Isakson was able to avoid a runoff.\n\nStarting in 2005, Cain worked for the political advocacy group Americans for Prosperity (AFP) alongside Mark Block. Block would later become campaign manager for Cain's 2012 presidential run and would be joined in Cain's campaign by several other AFP employees. Cain continued to receive honorariums for speaking at AFP events until he announced his campaign for the Republican nomination. Cain's senior economic advisor during his 2012 presidential campaign, Rich Lowrie, who helped devise Cain's 9-9-9 tax plan, had served on the AFP board. In 2006, Cain voiced several radio ads encouraging people of color to vote Republican; the ads were funded by a group called America's PAC and its founder J. Patrick Rooney.\n\nIn 2010, Cain addressed more than 40 Tea Party rallies. On September 24, 2010, he announced that he was considering a run for president in 2012 on the Republican Party ticket. In December, Cain was the \"surprise choice\" for 2012 GOP nominee in a RedState.com reader poll. Cain announced the formation of a presidential exploratory committee on January 12, 2011, and officially announced his candidacy on May 21 in Atlanta.\n\nCain's addresses to conservative groups were well received, and in late September and early October 2011, Cain won the straw polls of the Florida Republican Party, TeaCon, and the National Federation of Republican Women's Convention. \"My focus groups have consistently picked Herman Cain as the most likeable candidate in the debates,\" said GOP pollster Frank Luntz. \"Don't underestimate the power of likability, even in a Republican primary. The more likeable the candidate, the greater the electoral potential.\"\n\nIn July 2011, an advisor suggested that his campaign's tax policy plan be called \"the Optimal Tax\", but Cain rejected the name, saying \"we're just going to call it what it is: 9–9–9 Plan\". The plan would replace the current tax code with a 9-percent business transactions tax, a 9-percent personal income tax, and a 9-percent federal sales tax. During a debate on October 12, Cain said his plan \"expands the base\", arguing that \"when you expand the base, we can arrive at the lowest possible rate, which is 9-9-9\". An analysis released to Bloomberg News by the campaign claimed that the rate for each of the three taxes could in fact be as low as 7.3%, but \"poverty grants\" – which Cain has described as a lower rate in targeted \"empowerment zones\" – necessitated a national rate of 9%. Paul Krugman has criticized the plan, saying it shifts much of the current tax burden from the rich to the poor. Arthur Laffer, Lawrence Kudlow, the Club for Growth, and Congressman Paul Ryan have spoken favorably of \"9-9-9\". On October 21, Cain told a crowd in Detroit that the plan would be 9-0-9 for the poor, saying that \"if you are at or below the poverty level ... then you don't pay that middle 9 on your income\". Cain's 9-9-9 plan attracted skepticism from his fellow candidates at numerous Republican debates.\n\nIn late October 2011, \"Politico\" reported that Cain had been accused by two women of sexual harassment and misconduct during his time as CEO of the National Restaurant Association in the late 1990s. Harassment accusations were later made by two additional women. Cain acknowledged that the restaurant organization made financial settlements to the complainants. Two of the four women came forward publicly: Sharon Bialek and Karen Kraushaar.\n\nOn November 28, 2011, Cain asserted that a woman named Ginger White would be claiming to have had an affair with him, and that the allegation was not true. An interview with White was aired an hour later on Fox 5 in Atlanta. In the interview, White said the affair lasted 13 years and ended right before Cain announced his presidential campaign. On November 30, 2011, Herman Cain denounced allegations of sexual harassment and adultery as \"character assassination\" during an event in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nOn December 3, 2011, Cain announced he was \"suspending\" his campaign for the presidency following allegations of sexual harassment and adultery, which he denied, but were widely considered responsible for the sharp drop in his poll numbers.\n\nOn January 4, 2012, Cain announced the \"Cain's Solutions Revolution\". Cain's stated goal was to get commitments from members of Congress to support the 9-9-9 Plan before the 2012 elections. Cain stated that he started a new movement because the \"biggest comment I got when I ended my candidacy was to keep 9-9-9 alive. That's what this is about, and I'm going to keep it alive with what I'm calling Cain's Solutions Revolution.\" In order to promote this movement, Cain was using both a bus tour and a new website. \"New York\" magazine stated, \"It's Cain's earnest effort to keep 9-9-9 alive and focus on solutions.\" On January 20, 2012, Cain spoke at Stephen Colbert's \"Rock Me Like a Herman Cain: South Cain-Olina Primary Rally\". \"The Huffington Post\" reported the crowd size was between 3,000 and 5,000 people. It had been called \"the largest campaign rally so far during this GOP presidential primary season\", and \"the biggest political rally of the primary season\".\n\nFor President Obama's 2012 State of the Union address, the Tea Party Express chose Cain to give its second annual response. After Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels gave the official GOP response, Cain delivered his speech at the National Press Club. The speech was streamed live on the Tea Party Express website. Cain referred to Obama's address as a \"hodgepodge of liberal ideas\", adding that there were \"no big ideas that would impact job growth\" and \"no big ideas that would stimulate economic growth in this country\".\n\nAfter Barack Obama's reelection in 2012, Herman Cain told Bryan Fischer that the Republican Party no longer represented the interests of conservatives in the United States and that it didn't have \"the ability to rebrand itself\", so a third party, \"not Ron Paul and the Ron Paulites\" but \"a legitimate third party\", would be needed to replace it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32315559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32315559", "title": "Ibrahim M. Abu-Rabi‘", "text": "Ibrahim M. Abu-Rabi‘\n\nIbrahim M. Abu-Rabi‘ () was a Professor in Islamic Studies (Department of History and Classics) at the University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, and the Chair of the Edmonton Council of Muslim Communities. His primary areas of academic specialization were the Middle East and International Relations. He also had a special interest in the study and practice of interfaith dialogue between the Islamic and Christian religious traditions.\n\nAbu-Rabi‘ was born Nazareth and completed his schooling in Palestine. He attended university in the United States, earning a Master of Arts (MA) in Religious Studies from Temple University in 1983 and a MA in Political Science from the University of Cincinnati in 1982. He earned his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Islamic Studies, with concentrations in Modern Islamic Thought and Comparative Islamic Cultures, from the Temple University Department of Religion in 1987. His dissertation was entitled \"Islam and Search for Social Order in Modern Egypt: An Intellectual Biography of Shaykh al-Azhar 'Abd al-Halim Mahmud.\" Abu-Rabi‘ left Temple University and accepted temporary placements at Virginia Commonwealth University and the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nIn 1991 Abu-Rabi‘ accepted a post at the Hartford Seminary in Connecticut, serving as a professor for the then-named Macdonald Center for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim Relations (now the Duncan Black Macdonald Center for the Study of Islam and Christian-Muslim Relations). In addition to his work with interfaith dialogue, Abu-Rabi‘ specialized in issues of contemporary Islamic thought, particularly in relation to religion and society and mysticism.\n\nIn 2006 he was the Senior Fulbright Scholar in Singapore and Indonesia whilst based at the Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies on the Nanyang Technological University campus. In 2008 Abu-Rabi‘ was appointed the first holder of the Edmonton Council of Muslim Communities Chair in Islamic Studies at the University of Alberta, the first teaching and research chair of its kind in Canada.\n\nIbrahim Abu-Rabi‘ died of a sudden heart attack on 2 July 2011 while attending a conference in Amman, Jordan.\n\n\"I am greatly saddened to learn of the sudden loss of one of our own, professor Ibrahim Abu-Rabi‘, chair of Islamic studies,\" said university President Indira Samarasekera. \"As a mentor and a teacher, he was well known for his passion for teaching and his dedication to building understanding between people of various faiths. He will be remembered for his enthusiasm for his work, his unwavering support of his colleagues and students, and his care and compassion for all.\". He also had two kids.\n\nAbu-Rabi‘ was a devoted researcher and a prolific writer, with numerous titles to his credit. His work \"The Contemporary Arab Reader on Political Islam\" (University of Alberta Press, 2010) is a collection of writings from highly influential figures in the field of Islamism that attempts to address misunderstood notions of contemporary Islam. In an interview from the spring 2011 edition of \"WOA (Work of Arts)\", the U of A Faculty of Arts alumni magazine, Abu-Rabi‘ said, \"most Islamist groups are pro-democracy and anti-violence, but you’d never know this from what’s reported in the press. I wanted to give Islamists the chance to speak for themselves.\" The professor expressed a belief that out of the many books written in the West that purport to explain Islamism, virtually all have been written by westerners; that is, Islamist voices have remained largely absent.\n\nA curriculum vitae (CV) containing Abu-Rabi‘'s publications is available on the website of the Hartford Theological Seminary, where he taught before moving to the University of Alberta. Abu-Rabi‘ was affiliated with the International Council for Middle East Studies in Washington, DC and a list of his publications was placed on the Council's website.\n\nAbu-Rabi‘ served as the senior editor of \"The Muslim World\" journal.\n"}
{"id": "5392451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5392451", "title": "Jamshid Bahman Jamshidian", "text": "Jamshid Bahman Jamshidian\n\nJamshid Bahman Jamshidian, also known as Arbab Jamshidi (born in 1851 in Yazd - died January 16, 1933 in Tehran) , was a prominent Zoroastrian figure in Iran who introduced the idea of modern banking in Iran as well as being the first representative of the Zoroastrian community in the Iranian Parliament.\n\nAt the age of 11, due to his intelligence and exceptionally sharp memory, he was sent to Borujerd along with one of his father’s friends, to work in the local trade center owned by Arbab Rostam Mehr. He stayed there until the age of 20. By that time, the young Jamshid had opened his own small trade centers in Borujerd and Bandar Abbas and he was focusing on the clothing business. He expanded his operations to the north and specifically towards the capital, Tehran. One of his early intentions, deeply rooted in the care that he had for his society and his fellow Zoroastrians, was to employ as many bright young Zoroastrians as possible in his business, to reduce the centuries old dependency of their society on traditional farming.\n\nArbab Jamshid encouraged and facilitated Zoroastrian migration to the capital of Tehran. At the height of his operation, he had 150 Zoroastrian employees in his Tehran financial firm. Zoroastrian neighborhoods were formed in the area surrounding the residence of Jamshid. The nucleus of this community was formed by his employees and their families, joined later by other Zoroastrians.\n\nBy the age of 35, Arbab Jamshid had several trade chambers in the central market known as the Grand Bazaar of Tehran. This was a place where, normally non-Moslems had difficult times establishing businesses due to heightened level of prejudice. It was deeply rooted in centuries of discrimination and unjust behavior. Jamshid managed to build respect by establishing relationships with the key political figures of his time. These included two kings of Iran, Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar and Mohammed Ali Shah Qajar, and other political figures such as the first Iranian Prime Minister Mirza Nasrullah Khan. These relationships were built upon mutual respect and often accompanied by generous gifts.\n\nWhile keeping these powerful relationships, he also helped the poor. Iranians from any religious belief and/or background would be welcomed on a weekly basis to his house or business centers. Often 400 to 500 of the poor attended his weekly lunch. Arbab Jamshid was known as the Hatim al-Tai of Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "18667242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18667242", "title": "Julia Gorin", "text": "Julia Gorin\n\nJulia Gorin is an American conservative writer, journalist, humorist, and political commentator.\n\nBorn into a Jewish family in the Soviet Union, she immigrated as a toddler to the United States with her family in 1976. Her father was a violinist with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra. She wrote the satirical 2008 book, \"Clintonisms: The Amusing, Confusing, and Even Suspect Musing, of Billary\" ().\n\nShe has contributed articles to \"Jewish World Review\", \"National Review\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"FrontPage Magazine\", \"Jihad Watch\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The American Thinker\", \"The Christian Science Monitor\", \"WorldNetDaily\" and FoxNews.com. She is an unpaid member of the Advisory Board of the American Council for Kosovo, which lobbies on behalf of the Serbian National Council of Kosovo and Metohija. She frequently writes about the former Yugoslavia, especially Kosovo and is an opponent of its independence.\n\n"}
{"id": "7286038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7286038", "title": "Krishna Mohan Banerjee", "text": "Krishna Mohan Banerjee\n\nKrishna Mohan Banerjee (24 May 1813 – 11 May 1885) was a 19th-century Indian thinker who attempted to rethink Hindu philosophy, religion and ethics in response to the stimulus of Christian ideas. He himself became a Christian, and was the first president of the Bengal Christian Association, which was administered and financed by Indians. He was a prominent member of Henry Louis Vivian Derozio’s (1808–1831) Young Bengal group, educationist, linguist and Christian missionary.\n\nSon of Jibon Krishna Banerjee and Sreemoti Devi, Krishna Mohan was born on 24 May 1813 at Shyampur, Kolkata, Bengal, in the house of his maternal grandfather, Ramjay Vidyabhusan, the court-pundit of Santiram Singha of Jorasanko.\n\nIn 1819, Krishna Mohan joined the \"School Society Institution\" (later renamed as Hare School) founded by David Hare at colootola. Impressed by his talents, Hare took him to his school at Pataldanga, later famous as Hare School in 1822.\n\nBanerjee joined the newly founded Hindu College with a scholarship.\n\nIn 1831, the religious-reformer-and-litterateur started publishing \"The Inquirer\". In the same year his play, \"The Persecuted: or, Dramatic Scenes Illustrative of the Present State of Hindoo Society in Calcutta\", was produced. It was monotonically critical of certain prevalent social practices.\n\nWhile at college he used to attend the lectures of the Scottish Christian missionary, Alexander Duff, who had come to India in 1830.\n\nHis father died of cholera in 1828.\n\nOn completion of his studies in 1829, Banerjee joined \"Pataldanga School\" as an assistant teacher. In 1832, he converted to Christianity, under the influence of Alexander Duff. As a result of his conversion, he lost his job in David Hare’s school and his wife, Bindhyobashini Banerjee, was forced to return to her own father's house, only to join him in later life. Nevertheless, he later became the headmaster of \"Church Missionary Society School\".\n\nWhen the missionary society had begun its philanthropic activities in Kolkata, Banerjee became the first Bengali priest of Christ Church where he used to preach and deliver sermons in Bengali.\n\nHe converted his wife, his brother Kali Mohan, and Ganendra Mohan Tagore, the son of Prasanna Coomar Tagore to Christian faith. Subsequently, Ganendra Mohan married his daughter Kamalmani and became the first Indian to qualify as a barrister. He was also instrumental in the conversion of Michael Madhusudan Dutt.\n\nIn 1852, Krishna Mohan was appointed a professor of Oriental Studies at Bishop's College, Kolkata. He had studied aspects of Christianity as a student of the same college between 1836 and 1839.\n\nIn 1864 he was elected to be a member of the Royal Asiatic Society along with Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar. In 1876 the University of Calcutta honoured him with a honorary doctorate degree.\n\nReverend Krishna Mohan Banerjee died on 11 May 1885 in Kolkata, and was buried at Shibpur.\n\nHe published a 13-volume English – Bengali adaptation of Encyclopædia Britannica, \"Vidyakalpadruma\" or \"Encyclopædia Bengalensis\" (1846–51). He wrote an Indian English drama \"The persecuted\" in 1831..\n\nHis other works include \"The Arian Witness\" (1875), \"Dialogues on the Hindu Philosophy\" (1861), and \"The Relation Between Christianity and Hinduism\" (1881).\n\nA station named Krishnamohan Halt in Sealdah South lines Baruipur - Lakshmikantapur route is marked in memoirs of Rev. Krishna Mohan Banerjee.\n\nreverend Krishnamohan Bandyopadhyay Dwi-Shatabarsher Aloye, ed. Sanatkumar Naskar and Kasturi Mukhopadhyay, Ratnabali, 2013\n\n"}
{"id": "45075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45075", "title": "L. Sprague de Camp", "text": "L. Sprague de Camp\n\nLyon Sprague de Camp (; 27 November 1907 – 6 November 2000), better known as L. Sprague de Camp, was an American writer of science fiction, fantasy and non-fiction. In a career spanning 60 years, he wrote over 100 books, including novels and works of non-fiction, such as biographies of other fantasy authors. He was a major figure in science fiction in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nDe Camp was born in New York City, one of three sons of Lyon de Camp, a businessman in real estate and lumber, and Emma Beatrice Sprague. His maternal grandfather was the accountant, banker, pioneering Volapükist and Civil War veteran Charles Ezra Sprague. De Camp once noted that he rarely used pen-names, \"partly because my own true name sounds more like a pseudonym than most pseudonyms do.\"\n\nDe Camp began his education at the Trinity School in New York, then spent ten years attending the Snyder School in North Carolina, a military-style institution. His stay at the Snyder School was an attempt by his parents, who were heavy-handed disciplinarians, to cure him of intellectual arrogance and lack of discipline. He was awkward and thin, an ineffective fighter, and suffered from bullying by his classmates. His experiences at the school taught him to develop a detached, analytical style considered cold by all but his closest friends, though he could, like his father, be disarming and funny in social situations. He would later recall these challenging childhood experiences in the semi-autobiographical story, \"Judgment Day\" (1955).\n\nAn aeronautical engineer by profession, De Camp conducted his undergraduate studies at the California Institute of Technology (where his roommate was at one point noted rocket fuel scientist John Drury Clark), and earned his Bachelor of Science degree from Caltech in Aeronautical Engineering 1930. He earned his Master of Science degree in Engineering from the Stevens Institute of Technology in 1933. De Camp was also a surveyor and an expert in patents.\n\nHis first job was with the Inventors Foundation, Inc. in Hoboken, N.J., which was taken over by The International Correspondence Schools. De Camp transferred to the Scranton, PA division. He was Principal of the School of Inventing and Patenting when he resigned in 1937. His first book \"Inventions and Their Management\" resulted and was published in July 1937.\n\nOn August 12, 1939, de Camp married Catherine Crook, with whom he collaborated on science fiction and nonfiction beginning in the 1960s.\n\nDuring World War II, de Camp served as a researcher at the Philadelphia Naval Yard along with his fellow writers Isaac Asimov and Robert A. Heinlein. De Camp eventually rose to the rank of lieutenant commander in the U.S. Navy as a reserve officer.\n\nDe Camp was a member of the all-male literary and dining club the \"Trap Door Spiders\" in New York City, which served as the basis of Asimov's fictional group of mystery solvers the \"Black Widowers.\" De Camp himself was the model for the character named \"Geoffrey Avalon.\"\n\nDe Camp was a founding member of the Swordsmen and Sorcerers' Guild of America (SAGA), a loosely knit group of Heroic fantasy writers that was founded during the 1960s and led by Lin Carter, with entry by credentials as a fantasy writer alone.\n\nThe de Camps moved to Plano, Texas, in 1989, and Sprague de Camp died there on November 6, 2000, seven months after his wife, on what would have been her birthday, just three weeks before his own 93rd birthday. His ashes were inurned, together with hers, in the Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia.\n\nDe Camp's personal library of about 1,200 books was acquired for auction by Half Price Books in 2005. The collection included books inscribed by fellow writers, such as Isaac Asimov and Carl Sagan, as well as de Camp himself.\n\n\"Extraterrestrial,\" a coinage from \"extra\" + \"terrestrial,\" meaning from beyond earth, is attested as an adjective as early as 1868, according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\". Its first use in connection with \"life\" beyond earth was likely by H. G. Wells, in his 1898 novel \"The War of the Worlds\". L. Sprague de Camp is credited with its first usage as a noun with the meaning of \"alien life\" and with coining the abbreviation \"E.T.\" in the first part of his two-part article \"Design for Life,\" published in the May 1939 issue of \"Astounding Science Fiction\".\n\nDe Camp was a materialist who wrote works examining society, history, technology and myth. He published numerous short stories, novels, non-fiction works and poems during his long career.\n\nDe Camp had the mind of an educator, and a common theme in many of his works is a corrective impulse regarding similar previous works by other authors. A highly rational and logical thinker, he was frequently disturbed by what he regarded as logical lapses and absurdities in others' writings. Some, like Asimov, felt de Camp's conscientiousness about facts limited the scope of his stories: de Camp was reluctant to use technological or scientific concepts (e.g., hyperspace or faster-than-light travel) if he did not think them possible. Thus, his response to Mark Twain's \"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\" was to write a similar time travel novel (\"Lest Darkness Fall\") in which the method of time travel was rationalized and the hero's technical expertise both set at a believable level and constrained by the technological limitations of the age.\n\nIn like fashion, he reimagined space opera and planetary romance in his \"Viagens Interplanetarias\" series, and the prehistoric precursor civilizations characteristic of much heroic fantasy in his Pusadian series. When he was not debunking literary conventions he was often explaining them. For example, in the Harold Shea stories co-written with his longtime friend Fletcher Pratt (1897–1956), the magical premises of some bodies of myths and legends were accepted but examined and elucidated in terms of their own systems of inherent logic. The imaginative civilizations in \"The Compleat Enchanter\", for example, are built upon a cultural and technological reality based on scientific formulas. Characters may be transported to these different worlds, but the magic contained within those worlds is only feasible to the extent that it coincides with the technology of the day (e.g., the combustion engine). De Camp's explanatory tendency also carried over into his non-fictional writings, including advice to science fiction writers on handling the different states of languages in future worlds.\n\nDe Camp's science fiction is marked by his interests in linguistics, ancient history, and the history and philosophy of science. His first published story was \"The Isolinguals\", in the September 1937 issue of \"Astounding Science Fiction\"—the last issue edited by F. Orlin Tremaine, prior to the long tenure of John W. Campbell. Most of his early science fiction stories were unrelated to each other, the exceptions being his \"Johnny Black\" tales about a black bear uplifted to human-level intelligence, and his \"Drinkwhiskey Institute\" stories, a series of tall tales involving time travel. Campbell's fantasy magazine, \"Unknown\", was suited to de Camp's idosyncratic imagination, logic, and sense of humor. He contributed ten novels (five as collaborations), much of it characterized by humor and dry wit. De Camp eschewed the intention of being a satirist, insisting, instead, that the stories he wrote were meant less for instruction or improvement, as satire requires, and more for the amusement of his readers.\n\nDe Camp's treatment of time travel and alternate history in stories such as \"Lest Darkness Fall\" (1939), \"The Wheels of If\" (1940), \"A Gun for Dinosaur\" (1956), \"Aristotle and the Gun\" (1958), and \"The Glory That Was\" (1960) challenged the popular notion of his time that history consisted of an arbitrary series of accidents. Instead, de Camp, through sound background knowledge and logical thought, systematically demonstrated how technological advances could determine the pattern of an eventful history. His display of technological determinism in historical recreation is considered a \"tour de force.\"\"Lest Darkness Fall\", \"The Wheels of If\" and \"Aristotle and the Gun\" have been recognized as seminal works in the field of alternate history.\n\nHis most extended work was his \"Viagens Interplanetarias\" series, set in a future where Brazil is the dominant power, particularly a sub-series of sword and planet novels set on the planet Krishna, beginning with \"The Queen of Zamba\". His most influential \"Viagens\" novel was the non-Krishna work \"Rogue Queen\", a tale of a hive society undermined by interstellar contact, which was one of the earliest science fiction novels to deal with sexual themes.\n\nDe Camp wrote a number of lesser-known but nonetheless significant works that explored such topics as racism, which he considered to be more accurately described as ethnocentrism. He pointed out that no scholar comparing the merits of various ethnicities has ever sought to prove that his own ethnicity was inferior to others.\n\nDe Camp was best known for his light fantasy, particularly two series written in collaboration with Pratt, the Harold Shea stories (from 1940 et seq.) and Gavagan's Bar (from 1950). Floyd C. Gale in 1961 said that they \"were far and away the finest team of fantasy collaborators\". De Camp and Pratt also wrote some stand-alone novels similar in tone to the Harold Shea stories, of which the most highly regarded is \"Land of Unreason\" (1942), and de Camp wrote a few more of this genre on his own.\n\nHe was also known for his sword and sorcery, a fantasy genre revived partly by his editorial work on and continuation of Robert E. Howard's Conan cycle. He also edited a series of fantasy anthologies credited with helping to spark the renaissance of heroic fantasy in the late 1960s.\n\nDe Camp also created three noteworthy sword and sorcery sequences. The Pusadian series (from 1951), composed of the novel \"The Tritonian Ring\" and several short stories, is set in an antediluvian era similar to Howard's.\n\nMore substantial is the Novarian series (from 1968), of which the core is the Reluctant King trilogy, beginning with \"The Goblin Tower\", de Camp's most accomplished effort in the genre, continuing in \"The Clocks of Iraz\", and concluding with \"The Unbeheaded King\". The trilogy features the adventurer Jorian, ex-king of Xylar. Jorian's world is an alternate reality to which our own serves as an afterlife. Other novels in the sequence include \"The Fallible Fiend\", a satire told from the point of view of a demon, and \"The Honorable Barbarian\", a follow-up to the trilogy featuring Jorian's brother as the hero.\n\nThe Incorporated Knight series comprises some 1970s short stories by de Camp and two novels written in collaboration with Catherine Crook de Camp, \"The Incorporated Knight\" (1988) and \"The Pixilated Peeress\" (1991). The early short stories were incorporated into the first of these. The sequence is set in the medieval era of another alternate world sharing the geography of our own, but in which a Neapolitan empire filled the role of Rome and no universal religion like Christianity ever arose, leaving its nations split among competing pagan sects. The setting is borrowed in part from \"Mandeville's Travels\".\n\nDe Camp also wrote historical fiction set in the era of classical antiquity from the height of the First Persian Empire to the waning of the Hellenistic period. Five novels published by Doubleday from 1958 to 1969 form a loosely connected series based on their common setting and occasional cross references. They were also linked by a common focus on the advancement of scientific knowledge, de Camp's chosen protagonists being explorers, artisans, engineers, innovators and practical philosophers rather than famous names from antiquity, who are relegated to secondary roles. The best known of his historical novels is \"The Dragon of the Ishtar Gate\".\n\nDe Camp's first book was \"Inventions and Their Management\", co-written with Alf K. Berle and published by International Textbook Company in 1937: a 733-page book with three-page list of law cases cited.\n\nHe enjoyed debunking doubtful history and pseudoscientific claims about the supernatural. He conducted extensive research for what was to be a book on magic, witchcraft and occultism, though only the first chapter, \"The Unwritten Classics\" (March, 1947), was published in the \"Saturday Review of Literature\". By May, 1976, concerned with what Paul Kurtz described as \"an enormous increase in public interest in psychic phenomena, the occult and pseudoscience,\" de Camp joined the newly formed Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal along with astronomers George Abell, Bart Bok, and Carl Sagan; philosophers Brand Blanshard, Antony Flew, Sidney Hook, and Ernest Nagel; authors Isaac Asimov, Daniel Cohen, Charles Fair, Martin Gardner, and Phillip J. Klass; psychologists Ray Hyman and B.F Skinner; and magician James Randi. Despite being a long-time writer of fantasy, de Camp did not believe in ghosts in the supernatural sense. His ghosts dwelt only in his mind as memories of his parents. His mother, he wrote in a \"New York Times Magazine\" article, died of an overdose of faith healing. When considering claims of UFO sightings, astrology, and other subjects considered moot by the scientific community, de Camp would address the circular logic expressed by enthusiasts by insisting on first-hand, unbiased, measurable data to back up the claims. \"In the history of cultism,\" de Camp said in a Science News interview, \"one is always experiencing a feeling of deja vu.\"\n\nHe explained how ancient civilizations produced structures and architecture that many considered to be impossible for them, such as the Pyramids of Ancient Egypt. Works in this area include \"Lost Continents\", \"Citadels of Mystery\", and \"The Ancient Engineers\".\n\nSome others of his many and wide-ranging nonfiction works were \"The Great Monkey Trial\" (about the Scopes Trial), \"The Ragged Edge of Science\", \"Energy and Power\", \"The Heroic Age of American Invention\", \"The Day of the Dinosaur\" (which argued, among other things, that evolution took hold after Darwin because of the Victorian interest spurred by recently popularized dinosaur remains, corresponding to legends of dragons), \"Great Cities of the Ancient World\" and \"The Evolution of Naval Weapons\" (a United States government textbook).\n\nPublished in the July 1938 issue of \"Astounding Science Fiction\", \"Language for Time Travelers\" won de Camp the first non-fiction readership monthly honor awarded in the magazine for his exploration of the communication difficulties for time travelers as pronunciation and semantics shift over time.\n\nDe Camp's pioneering biographies of fantasy writers were many short articles and full-length studies of Robert E. Howard and H. P. Lovecraft, the first major independent biographies of both writers. Matthew Hartman, in a review of de Camp's \"Lovecraft: A Biography\", stated that de Camp \"does not defend his subject; he criticizes where criticism is due, and he explains in historical and sociological context, rather than attempting to excuse.\" De Camp's \"warts and all\" approach to his subjects has been branded by some fans as unflattering and unbalanced. For instance, Mark Finn, author of \"\", contends that de Camp deliberately framed his questions in regard to Howard to elicit answers matching his Freudian theories about him.\n\nDe Camp also wrote nonfiction radio scripts for Voice of America.\n\nDe Camp and Willy Ley won the 1953 International Fantasy Award for nonfiction recognizing their study of geographical myths, \"Lands Beyond\" (Rinehart, 1952). De Camp was a guest of honor at the 1966 World Science Fiction Convention and was named the third Gandalf Grand Master of Fantasy, after Tolkien and Fritz Leiber, at the 1976 convention. The Science Fiction Writers of America made him its fourth SFWA Grand Master in 1979 and he won the World Fantasy Award for Life Achievement in 1984, a Special Achievement Sidewise Award for Alternate History in 1996, citing \"seminal works in the field,\" and the Hugo Award for Nonfiction in 1997 for his autobiography, \"\".\n\nAt a meeting of the executive council of the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry (CSI) in Denver, Colorado in April 2011, De Camp was selected for inclusion in CSI's Pantheon of Skeptics. The Pantheon of Skeptics was created by CSI to remember the legacy of deceased fellows of CSI and their contributions to the cause of scientific skepticism. CSI was previously known as the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal (CSICOP).\n\nL. Sprague de Camp has been depicted in fictional works by a number of other authors. Randall Garrett conflated him with J.R.R. Tolkien's Gandalf in the character of the magician \"Sir Lyon Gandolphus Gray\" in his Lord Darcy series. He was the model for the \"Geoffrey Avalon\" character in Isaac Asimov's fictional group of mystery solvers the \"Black Widowers,\" and the unnamed court magician in Lawrence Watt-Evans' \"Return to Xanadu\" (\"\", 2005).\n\nHe also appears without fictional disguise in the short stories \"Green Fire\" by Eileen Gunn, Andy Duncan, Pat Murphy, and Michael Swanwick (\"Asimov's Science Fiction\", April, 2000) and \"Father Figures\" by Susan Shwartz (\"The Enchanter Completed: A Tribute Anthology for L. Sprague de Camp\", 2005), and in the novels \"In the Courts of the Crimson Kings\" (2008) by S. M. Stirling and \"The Astounding, the Amazing, and the Unknown\" (2011) by Paul Malmont.\n\nA semi-fictionalized version of de Camp appears in the third episode of the 2017 TV series \"\", as one of several academics and authors consulted by the FBI on the basis of the citation of their work in the Unabomber manifesto. In the scene depicting this meeting, de Camp's name appears on a placard as \"L. Sprague de Camp, S.A.G.A. Author, \"The Ancient Engineers\".\" De Camp's name does not specifically appear in the episode credits, which identify the roles of actors in the scene as composite characters. \"The Ancient Engineers\" is cited in endnote 18 of the manifesto.\n\nThis selection is limited to books.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181657", "title": "Lady of the Lake", "text": "Lady of the Lake\n\nThe Lady of the Lake is an enchantress in the Matter of Britain, the body of medieval literature and legend associated with King Arthur. She plays a pivotal role in many stories, including giving Arthur his sword Excalibur, enchanting Merlin, and raising Lancelot after the death of his father. Different writers and copyists give the Arthurian character the name Nimue, Nymue, Nimueh, Viviane, Vivien, Vivienne, Niniane, Niviene, Nyneve or Nineve, among other variations. At least two different sorceresses bearing the title \"the Lady of the Lake\" appear as separate characters in some versions and adaptations since the Post-Vulgate Cycle and \"Le Morte d'Arthur\".\n\nArthurian scholar A. O. H. Jarman, following suggestions first made by scholars of the 19th century, proposed that the name \"Viviane\" in French Arthurian romances was ultimately derived from (and a corruption of) the Welsh word \"chwyfleian\" (also spelled \"hwimleian\", \"chwibleian\", et al. in medieval Welsh sources), meaning \"a wanderer of pallid countenance\", which was originally applied as an epithet to the famous prophetic \"wild man\" figure of Myrddin Wyllt (Merlin) in medieval Welsh poetry, but due to the relative obscurity of the word, was misunderstood as \"fair wanton maiden\" and taken to be the name of Myrddin's female captor.\n\nChrétien de Troyes's \"Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart\", the first story featuring Lancelot as a prominent character, was also the first to mention his upbringing by a fairy in a lake. If to accept that the German \"Lanzelet\" by Ulrich von Zatzikhoven contains elements of a more primitive version of this tale than Chrétien's, the infant Lancelot was spirited away to a lake by a water fairy (\"merfeine\" in Old High German) and raised in her country of \"Meidelant\" (\"Land of Maidens\", an island in the sea inhabited by ten thousand maidens who live in perpetual happiness); the fairy queen and her paradise island are reminiscent of Morgen of the Island of Avallon in Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Vita Merlini\".\n\nThe Lady of the Lake began appearing in the French chivalric romances by the early 13th century, becoming Lancelot's fairy godmother-like foster mother. The Lancelot-Grail cycle provides a backstory for the Lady of the Lake, Viviane, in the \"prose Merlin\" section, which takes place before the Lancelot Proper, though it was written later. She refuses to give him her love until he has taught her all his secrets, after which she uses her power to trap him forever, originally either in the trunk of a hawthorn tree or beneath a stone. Though Merlin, through his power of foresight knows beforehand that this will happen, he is unable to counteract Viviane because of the \"truth\" this ability of foresight holds. He decides to do nothing for his situation other than to continue to teach her his secrets until she takes the opportunity to entrap and entomb him (in a tree, a stone, a cave, or an invisible tower, depending on the story and author).\n\nAccording to the Vulgate \"Merlin\", it was the goddess Diana's enchantment, given to Dyonas, that caused Viviane to be so alluring to Merlin. The Vulgate \"Lancelot\" tells us that she was the Queen of Sicily, but considered a goddess by her subjects. The continuation Post Vulgate \"Merlin\" describes how she killed her lover to be with another man, but then she was beheaded by this man as a murderess. This story was later transferred to a lake in France, and was later called the Lake of Diana.\n\nThe Post-Vulgate Cycle's second Lady of the Lake is called Ninianne, and her story is nearly identical to the one in the Lancelot-Grail, though it adds her bestowal of the magic sword Excalibur to Arthur. Sir Thomas Malory also uses both Ladies of the Lake in his \"Le Morte d'Arthur\"; he leaves the first one unnamed and calls the second one Nimue (Nymue). Malory's original Lady is presented as an early benefactor of King Arthur who grants him Excalibur when his original sword is damaged. She is later beheaded by Sir Balin as a result of a kin feud between them (she blames him for the death of her brother, while he blames her for the death of his mother who was burned at the stake, in addition to for how, as he says, \"by enchantment and sorcery she has been the destroyer of many good knights\") and a dispute over an enchanted sword. \n\nThe Middle English romance \"Arthour and Merlin\" casts Morgan le Fay herself in the role of the Lady of the Lake and residing near a town named Ninniane. The Italian manuscript \"Tavola ritonda\" (\"The Round Table\") makes the Lady a daughter of Uther Pendragon and a sister to both Morgan and Arthur; here she is a character villainous to the extent that her own brother Arthur swears to burn her. In the 15th-century \"Perceforest\", the figures of the Lady of the Lake and of the enchantress Sebile have been merged to create the character of Sebile of the Lake, there the mother of Arthur himself. \n\nThe first Lady of the Lake remains unnamed besides this epithet. When Arthur and Merlin first meet this Lady of the Lake, she holds Excalibur out of the water and offers it to Arthur if he promises to fulfill a request from her later. He agrees and receives his famous sword. Later, the Lady of the Lake comes to Arthur's court to receive her end of the bargain; she asks for the head of Sir Balin, who she blames for her brother's death. Arthur refuses this request, and Balin beheads her instead, much to Arthur's distress. \n\nThe second Lady of the Lake is sometimes referred to by her title and sometimes referred to by name. That name has several variations. In William Caxton's text of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", her name appears as \"Nymue\", \"Nyneue\" and \"Nynyue\"; in the Winchester MS, her name appears as \"Nynyve\" and \"Nenyve\". Even though \"Nymue,\" with the \"m\", appears only in the Caxton text, it is perhaps the most common name for this Lady of the Lake as the Caxton text was the only version of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" published until 1947.\n\nNimue appears as the chivalric code changes; her appearance hints to the reader that something new will happen. This trend follows the logic that Malory is in a conspiracy of sorts with his reader. In this scenario, the author and the reader are in cahoots in order to achieve the wanted interpretation of the Arthurian legend. The first time the character named Nimue appears is at Arthur's wedding. She then appears in many other episodes of Malory's work. Each time the Lady reappears, it is at a pivotal moment of the episode, establishing the importance of her character within Arthurian literature, especially \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". In that work, she transcends any notoriety attached to her character by aiding Arthur and other knights to succeed in their endeavors. \n\nMalory describes Nimue as the \"chief Lady of the Lake,\" and she plays a pivotal role in the Arthurian court throughout the story. Malory's Nymue performs some of the same actions as the Lady of the Lake of his sources, but Malory's Nimue is different in some ways. For instance, in the \"Suite du Merlin\", his source for the earlier parts of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", the Lady of the Lake traps Merlin in a tomb, which results in his death. She does this out of cruelty and a hatred of Merlin. In \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", on the other hand, Nimue is still the one to trap Merlin, but Malory gives her a sympathetic reason. Merlin falls 'in a dotage' on her and will not leave her alone. Malory gives no indication that Nimue loves him back. Eventually, since she cannot get rid of him otherwise, she decides to trap him under rock and makes sure he cannot escape. She is tired of his sexual advances, and afraid of his power, so she does not have much of a choice but to ultimately get rid of him. After enchanting Merlin, Malory’s Nimue replaces him as Arthur’s magician aide and adviser. She becomes the lover and eventual wife of Sir Pelleas and mother to his son Guivret. After the Battle of Camlann, she reclaims Excalibur when it is thrown into the lake by Sir Bedivere. Nimue is one of the magical queens who bear the wounded Arthur away to Avalon, a setting tied to the Lady of the Lake in some literary traditions.\n\nIn Malory's text, Nimue is married to Sir Pelleas and outwardly acts as an obedient wife, while at the same time subtly helping sway the court in the right direction. When Malory was looking at other texts to find inspiration for his characters, he chose the best aspects of all the other Lady of the Lake characters, making her a compassionate, clever, strong willed, and sympathetic character. Nimue does not shrink behind the male figures in her life; instead, she is pragmatic and unflappable. When Arthur is in need in Malory's text, some incarnation of the Lady of the Lake, or her magic, or her agent, reaches out to help him. For instance, she saves Arthur from a magical attempt on his life made by his sister Morgan le Fay and from the death at the hands of Accolon, and together with Tristan helps him kill an evil sorceress named Annowre. These stories had first appeared in the French romances.\n\nWalter Scott wrote an influential poem, \"The Lady of the Lake\", in 1810, drawing on the romance of the legend, but with an entirely different story set around Loch Katrine in the Trossachs of Scotland. Scott's material furnished subject matter for \"La donna del lago\", an 1819 opera by Gioachino Rossini. Franz Schubert set seven songs from Walter Scott's \"Lady of the Lake\", including the three \"Ellen songs\" (\"Ellens Gesang I\", \"Ellens Gesang II\", and \"Ellens Gesang III\"), although Schubert's music to Ellen's third song has become far more famous in its later adaptation, known as \"Ave Maria\". \n\nThe full French name of the University of Notre Dame, founded in 1842, is \"Notre Dame du Lac\". This is translated as \"Our Lady of the Lake\", making reference to Mary, mother of Jesus as the Lady of the Lake, evidencing fusion between Arthurian legend and middle-Christian history.\n\nAlfred, Lord Tennyson adapted several stories of the Lady of the Lake for his 1859–1885 poetic cycle \"Idylls of the King\". He too splits her into two characters; Viviane is a deceitful villain who ensnares Merlin, while the Lady of the Lake is a benevolent figure who raises Lancelot and gives Arthur his sword. Some other authors choose to emphasize a single character. \n\nModern authors of Arthurian fiction adapt the Lady of the Lake legend in various ways, often using two or more bearers of the title. Versions of the Lady (or Ladies) of the Lake appear in many other works of Arthurian fiction, including novels, films, television series, stage musicals, comics, and games. Though her identity may change, her role as a significant figure in the lives of both Arthur and Merlin remains consistent. Some examples of such 20th and 21st century works are listed below.\n\n\nA number of locations, mostly in Great Britain, are traditionally associated with the Lady of the Lake's abode. They include Martin Mere, Dozmary Pool, Llyn Llydaw, Llyn Ogwen, Llyn y Fan Fach, The Loe, Pomparles Bridge, Loch Arthur, and Pergusa Lake in Sicily. In France, she is associated with Paimpont forest, identified as the Arthurian Brocéliande.\n\n"}
{"id": "166963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166963", "title": "List of Albanians", "text": "List of Albanians\n\nThis is a list of historical and living Albanians (ethnic Albanian people or people of full or partial Albanian ancestry) who are famous or notable, sorted by occupation and name.\n\n\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4323252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4323252", "title": "List of Danish Americans", "text": "List of Danish Americans\n\nThis is a list of notable Danish Americans, including both original immigrants who obtained American citizenship and their American-born descendants.\n\nTo be included in this list, the person must have a Wikipedia article showing they are Danish American or must have references showing they are Danish American and are notable.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42162163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42162163", "title": "List of Mughal travelers", "text": "List of Mughal travelers\n\nThis is a list of the travelers who left accounts about the ancient India and Mughal Empire.\n"}
{"id": "45301675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45301675", "title": "List of soap-makers", "text": "List of soap-makers\n\nThis is a list of soap-makers. It lists notable soapmakers and soap ateliers.\n"}
{"id": "11620087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620087", "title": "Louis-Joseph Faure", "text": "Louis-Joseph Faure\n\nLouis-Joseph Faure (5 March 1760 – 12 June 1837) was a French jurist and politician who was one of the four authors of the Napoleonic Code.\n\nHe was born in Le Havre and became a judge in Paris in 1791. Later he was a deputy prosecutor of the Seine, and then a member of the Council of Five Hundred and later the Tribunat. He became a member of the Conseil d'État in 1807. He submitted a report on the \"Code de procédure\" in 1806 and one on the \"Code pénal\" in 1810.\n\n"}
{"id": "53615424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53615424", "title": "Mark Dubois", "text": "Mark Dubois\n\nMark Dubois (born February 24, 1949) began as an environmental activist, initially focusing on saving rivers and has worked to mobilize and engage citizens globally for a vibrant future. In 1972 he co-founded Environmental Traveling Companions (E.T.C.) to offer environmental education and Outward Bound-type trips to disabled persons and disadvantaged youth. In 1973, he co-founded Friends of the River to fight the flooding of the Stanislaus River and canyon by the New Melones Dam. He reached national fame when he chained himself to a rock on the banks of the river to prevent the flooding of the river. He also co-founded International Rivers in 1984, and served as the International Coordinator of Earth Day 1990 and 2000. His personal papers from these organizations and other work from 1970–2002 are held by the Bancroft Library at the University of California, Berkeley.\nMark Dubois was born in Sacramento February 24, 1949, and in his teen and adult years rafted and explored the Stanislaus River canyon. Being a canyon made of limestone, exploring caves was a significant part of his initial experiences there. At the time, he was only dimly aware that the US Army Corps of Engineers was working on a dam that would eventually flood the river canyon he was falling in love with.\n\nIn 1972, Dubois co-founded (with Fred Dennis) Environmental Traveling Companions (ETC or \"etcetera\") to introduce inner city kids to nature through rafting. The organization continues today with the same mission.\n\nFriends of the River was born in 1973 from the effort to put an initiative (Proposition 17) on the California ballot to save the river, led by Jerry Meral and Mark Dubois, among others. Although the initiative failed, the act of working to pass it brought together enough individual effort to create the foundation of an organization (some 30,000 volunteers gathered half a million signatures to qualify the initiative). By 1980 FOR had 3,000 members.\n\nIn 1984, Dubois co-founded the International Rivers Network (now called \"International Rivers\") after a year-long trip around the world. The group aims to encourage grassroots organizing against large dam projects, and redirecting international funding away from such projects.\n\nDubois and Teresa McGlashan were the International Coordinators for Earth Day’s global efforts, coordinating with grassroots groups along with some government and business organizations in the 143 participating countries outside the US. An estimated 200 million citizens participated in Earth Day and Earth Week events around the world.\n\nDubois advocates “heart politics.” Similar to Gandhi’s appeal to our better nature, Dubois notes that individuals respond better to encouragement and appeals to their conscience. He tries to help transform anger into constructive action, and believes that by having fun doing it means that success is more likely.\n\nDubois gained national attention when he chained himself to a rock beside the rising reservoir behind New Melones Dam in May 1979 to force the Army Corps of Engineers to stop the filling or kill him. He was at least temporarily successful, as they stopped filling the dam and he came out of hiding.\n\n\nList related internal (Wikipedia) articles in alphabetical order. Common nouns are listed first. Proper nouns follow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31206994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31206994", "title": "Mohegan Tribe", "text": "Mohegan Tribe\n\nThe Mohegan Tribe is a federally recognized tribe and sovereign tribal nation of Mohegan people (pronounced ). Their reservation is the Mohegan Indian Reservation, located on the Thames River in Uncasville, Connecticut.\n\nMohegan's independence as a sovereign nation has been documented by treaties and laws for over 350 years, such as the Treaty of Hartford secured by their Sachem (Chief) Uncas after his cooperation and victory with the English in the Pequot War (1637-1638). Although the Treaty of Hartford established English recognition of the tribe's sovereignty in 1638, after the colonial period and loss of lands, the tribe struggled to maintain recognition of its identity. For centuries its people were assumed by whites to have assimilated to majority culture.\n\nThe tribe reorganized in the late 20th century and filed a federal land claims suit, seeking to regain land that the state of Connecticut had illegally sold. As part of the settlement, the Mohegan Nation gained federal recognition by the United States government in 1994. That year the US Congress passed the \"Mohegan Nation (Connecticut) Land Claim Settlement Act.\" The US authorized the cleaned-up United Nuclear site for use as Mohegan reservation lands, and the property was transferred to the United States in trust for the tribe.\n\nGaining a sovereign reservation enabled the Mohegan to establish gaming operations on their lands to generate revenue for welfare and economic development of their tribe. They opened the Mohegan Sun casino on October 12, 1996, near the former Fort Shantok site above the Thames River.\n\nIn 1997 the Mohegan Tribe's Council of Elders adopted the following Vision Statement:\n\nBefore the seventeenth century, the Mohegan were part of the Pequot Tribe, which emerged among Algonquian peoples located in south central present New England.\n\nThe early 1600s were a critical period of change for Connecticut tribes, who spoke various Algonquian languages. The pressure from rapidly expanding European settlements created competition for land and resources, while new infectious diseases were decimating Indian populations at an alarming rate. Within the Pequot Tribe at that time, a dispute erupted between the Pequot Sachem (head chief) Sassacus and the leader Uncas.\n\nUncas left with his followers, who called themselves the \"Mohegan,\" or Wolf People, like their ancestors. Each tribe had its own idea of how to deal with conflicts with the English and other Europeans. Uncas (1598-1683) became Sachem of the Mohegan Tribe, which favored collaboration with the English colonists. The Pequot under Sassacus chose to fight the colonists, and other local tribes took sides in the Pequot War, which lasted from 1637-1638.\n\nSeeing the great losses brought on by continued fighting, Uncas had befriended the European invaders. This controversial decision brought Uncas and the Mohegan people into an uneasy alliance with the English in the ensuing war with the Pequot (1637-1638). The Mohegan helped the English defeat the Pequot.\n\nUncas settled his people in a village at Shantok on the Thames River, which the Tribe defended from a Narragansett invasion. It was sparked by related European as well as Indian conflicts. Finally, the Mohegan Tribe's alliance with the English kept its people relatively safe during the colonists attacks on Native Americans during King Philip's War and afterward.\n\nThe Mohegan Tribe has created and maintained an independent governmental structure since before Europeans arrived in North America. The Mohegan Government has evolved to exercise full civil and criminal jurisdiction over their lands using the Constitution of the Mohegan Tribe of Indians of Connecticut, which they wrote in the 20th century.\n\nThe Mohegan Nation is governed by the Mohegan people. They elect a Tribal Council of nine Tribal Members and a Council of Elders, composed of seven Tribal Members. All legislative and executive powers of the Tribe not granted to the Council of Elders are vested with the Tribal Council.\n\nThe Council of Elders oversees judicial matters and the tribe's cultural integrity. The Council of Elders also exercises legislative powers with respect to rules governing tribal membership and enrollment. The Tribal Court adjudicates on all non-gaming matters.\n\nFollowing Congressional passage of the 1988 Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, the Mohegan Nation used its cooperative relationship with the State of Connecticut to negotiate a gaming compact, after it had gained federal recognition in 1994 and receiving land in settlement under the \"Mohegan Nation (Connecticut) Land Claim Settlement Act\" (1994). The US took into trust the cleaned-up United Nuclear site for use by the Mohegan as a sovereign reservation.\n\nThe Tribe opened the Mohegan Sun casino in 1996, two years after gaining federal recognition. The compact created between Connecticut and the Mohegan Tribe secured 25 percent of slot revenues to the state to help fund services. It became a model agreement. Connecticut's Native American tribes have generated the highest revenues for the state aside from federal government installations. The government-to-government relationships that have developed between Connecticut and Mohegan have enabled quick resolutions to issues that have been raised, such as: regulation of indoor smoking, alcohol service, and state police presence at the reservation.\n\nThe Mohegan Tribe used its own funds to pay for the $35 million access road that enables visitors to reach Mohegan Sun without tying up Montville roads. The tribe has worked closely with its neighbors and provided the funding for an $11 million regional water project in order to ensure safe, clean drinking water.\n\nThe tribe has been a strong advocate in the effort to ensure that Connecticut’s communities get a greater share of slots revenues. It proposed a successful initiative to modify the funding formula so that communities most affected by the casinos receive additional funds from the Pequot-Mohegan Fund.\n\nIn addition, the Mohegan Tribe pays $500,000 each year to the Town of Montville in lieu of taxes. The Mohegan Tribe is a partner in the Community Economic Development Fund. The revolving loan program will help regional small businesses create jobs. The tribe is the first and only non-bank investor in such a program in Connecticut.\n\nA member of the Mohegan Tribe sits on the board of trustees for the University of Connecticut.\n\nThe Mohegan Tribe has used gaming to generate revenue for economic development of the Tribe, its members, and the surrounding communities. Mohegan Sun employs about 10,000 individuals internally, while buying supplies and services from hundreds of small and medium-sized vendors and local companies that also employ thousands of individuals. Employees of the Tribes and Casinos pay all federal and state income taxes as well as other employment taxes, providing tens of millions of dollars to the state and federal governments.\n\nAs mandated by federal law and the Mohegan Tribe’s Constitution and laws, profits from Native American gaming go to support the health, education, welfare, and infrastructure of tribal governments. Although tribes are entitled to certain federal grants, by 1997 the Mohegan Tribe was in a position to return or reject funds. That year, it turned back $2.2 million in grant funds to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to be redistributed to other Native American nations.\n\nSince its opening in October 1996, the Mohegan Sun has generated substantial revenues for Connecticut’s economy:\n\nThe tribe is a part owner of the New England Black Wolves National Lacrosse League franchise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42908740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42908740", "title": "Personal life of Stanley Kubrick", "text": "Personal life of Stanley Kubrick\n\nThe personal life of Stanley Kubrick:\n\nKubrick married his high-school sweetheart Toba Metz in May 1948, when he was nineteen years of age. They lived together in Greenwich Village and divorced three years later in 1951.\n\nHe met his second wife, the Austrian-born dancer and theatrical designer Ruth Sobotka, in 1952. They lived together in New York's East Village from 1952 until their marriage in January 1955. They moved to Hollywood six months afterwards, where she played a brief part as a ballet dancer in Kubrick's film, \"Killer's Kiss\" (1955). The following year she was art director for his film, \"The Killing\" (1956). They divorced in 1957.\nDuring the production of \"Paths of Glory\" (1957) in Munich, Kubrick met and romanced young German actress Christiane Harlan, who played a small though memorable role. Kubrick married Harlan in 1958, and in 1959 they settled into a home in Beverly Hills with Harlan's daughter, Katherina, age six. They also lived in New York, during which time Christiane studied art at the Art Students League of New York, later becoming an independent artist. Like Kubrick, she wanted \"solace to think, study, and practice her craft,\" writes LoBrutto. They remained together 40 years, until his death in 1999. Besides his stepdaughter, they had two daughters together, Anya and Vivian.\n\nShortly after his death, Christiane assembled a personal collection of never-before-seen photographs and commentary into a book, \"Stanley Kubrick: A Life in Pictures\". Included among the photos was only one of Kubrick's family together, taken in 1960. In 2010, she gave a videotaped interview with U.K.'s \"Guardian\", where she discussed his personality, his love of editing films, and some reasons why he chose to not make \"Aryan Papers.\"\n\nActor Jack Nicholson, who starred in \"The Shining\" (1980), observed that \"Stanley was very much a family man.\" Similarly, Nicole Kidman, who starred in \"Eyes Wide Shut\" (1999), adds that Christiane \"was the love of his life. He would talk about her, he adored her, something that people didn't know. His daughters adored them ... I would see that, and he would talk about them very proudly.\" The opinion was shared by Malcolm McDowell, who starred in \"A Clockwork Orange\": \"He was happily married. I remember his daughters, Vivian and Anya, running around the room. It was good to see such a close-knit family.\"\n\nKubrick moved to the United Kingdom to make \"Lolita\" because of easier financing via the Eady Levy, since at least 85% of the film was shot in the UK, and freedom from censorship and interference from Hollywood studios.\n\nThere he set up his life so that family and business were one. Christiane Kubrick told the London \"Times\" how rough New York had become, with children having to be escorted to school by police, people being rude, and smashed glass all over the street. Although he thrived on the manic energy of New York, Kubrick soon adapted to the more genteel atmosphere of Britain.\n\nWhen he hired Peter Sellers to star in his next film, \"Dr. Strangelove\", Sellers was unable to leave the UK. Kubrick made Britain his permanent home thereafter, although \"he never considered himself an expatriate American,\" notes Walker. He also shunned the Hollywood system and its publicity machine, resulting in little media coverage of him as a personality.\n\nIn 1965 the Kubricks moved to Abbots Mead, Barnet Lane, just south of the Elstree/Borehamwood studio complex. This was a turn of the 19th century house, sold to him by Simon Cowell's father. Kubrick worked almost exclusively from this home for 14 years where, with some exceptions, he researched, invented special effects techniques, designed ultra-low light lenses for specially modified cameras, pre-produced, edited, post-produced, advertised, distributed and carefully managed all aspects of four of his films: \"2001: A Space Odyssey\" (1965 to 1968), \"A Clockwork Orange\" (1969 to 1971), \"Barry Lyndon\" (1972 to 1975) and most of \"The Shining\" (1976 to 1980 - finished the year after he left for Childwickbury Green)\n\nIn 1978, Kubrick moved into Childwickbury Manor in Hertfordshire, UK, a mainly 18th century building about north of London and a 10-minute drive from his previous home at Abbotts Mead. After finishing \"The Shining\" he went on to make \"Full Metal Jacket\" and lastly \"Eyes Wide Shut\". He is interred on its grounds together with his eldest daughter Anya Kubrick.\n\nLoBrutto notes that living in the United Kingdom brought peace to the Kubrick family. After moving to Britain, recalls Christiane, one of the first British radio shows they heard was on gardening. The area's many landscaped parks, gardens and animals was an enormous contrast to New York. \"It's very pleasant,\" said Kubrick, \"very peaceful, very civilized here. London is in the best sense the way New York was\" in the early 1900s.\n\nHis friend, screenwriter Michael Herr, points out that he did not live in Britain because he disliked America:\nKubrick's home in the English countryside, a half-hour drive from London, gave him \"energy, inspiration, and confidence,\" states Walker. It provided him with a \"favorable psychological climate in which to function,\" with more privacy and time for reflection. Kubrick's close friend, Julian Senior, who was vice president for Warner Brothers' London office, compared Kubrick's lifestyle to \"a medieval craftsman whose home was his workshop.\" He did manage to stay up on current affairs, and read the \"New York Times\" daily, notes Jan Harlan, adding that Kubrick remained a \"New Yorker\" at heart his entire life.\n\nHis new home, originally a large country mansion once owned by a wealthy racehorse owner, became a workplace for Kubrick and Christiane. One of the large ballroom-size rooms became her painting studio. Kubrick converted the stables into extra production rooms besides ones within the home that he used for editing and storage. Christiane called their home \"a perfect family factory.\"\n\nA film trailer was kept in the driveway, and she took care of keeping visiting crew, staff, and actors, ensuring they were well fed and cared for. They both made special effort to keep their home warm and friendly, yet they shared a need for privacy. She adds, \"When Stanley is relaxed he plays chess and likes to be very quiet ... Stanley is so gentle, such a shy and sensitive person.\" At home, children and animals would frequently come in and out of the room as he worked on a script or met with an actor. Kubrick's many dogs and cats, toward which he showed an extraordinary affection, were often brought onto film sets or editing rooms.\n\nDiane Johnson, co-screenwriter of \"The Shining\", notes that he enjoyed sharing his work with his family: \"They all worked together, creating art and film on the kitchen table, so to speak ... Stanley was in no way an isolated individual, and never excluded his family from what he was doing.\"\n\nKubrick rarely left England during the remaining 40 years before he died. \"He lived a simple (outer) life, and a largely devotional one,\" writes Herr, who describes his home and workplace:\n\nAlthough Kubrick once held a pilot's license, some have claimed that he later developed a fear of flying and refused to take airplane trips. Matthew Modine, star of \"Full Metal Jacket\", stated that the stories about his fear of flying were \"fabricated,\" and that \"he wasn't afraid to fly.\" He simply preferred spending most of his time in England, where his films were produced and where he lived.\n\nEmilio D'Alessandro, a former race-car driver, was his personal assistant at his home workplace for over 30 years, handling much of the day-to-day chores such as driving actors to and from his home. In his 2012 book, \"Stanley Kubrick & Me\", he describes his personal experiences, saying that Kubrick wasn't simply his \"employer but his university,\" and that he was, \"really like a father.\"\nKubrick kept in close contact with business associates in the U.S. and elsewhere, mostly by telephone, calling associates at all hours for conversations that lasted from under a minute to many hours. Many of Kubrick's admirers and friends spoke of these telephone conversations with great affection and nostalgia after his death. Kubrick also frequently invited people to his house, ranging from actors to close friends, admired film directors, writers, and intellectuals. He rarely took vacations, even after completing a major film, and would simply begin preparing for his next one by catching up on seeing movies that had come out during the last year and searching through books and magazines for his next project idea.\n\nKubrick was an early user of desktop computers and had five that he worked with at home.\nLoBrutto describes Kubrick's home office:\nScreenwriter Michael Herr remembers working with him on \"Full Metal Jacket\", in what he describes as Kubrick's home \"War Room\" which was a large space \"crammed with desks and computers and filing cabinets\" and \"long trestle tables littered\" with sketches and idea papers and photos of \"streets, pagodas, prostitutes, shrines, and signs.\"\n\nHis appearance was not well known in his later years, to the extent that a British man named Alan Conway successfully impersonated Kubrick locally for a number of years. Biographer Vincent LoBrutto notes that his privacy led to spurious stories about his reclusiveness, \"producing a mythology more than a man,\" similar to those about Greta Garbo, Howard Hughes, and J.D. Salinger.\n\nMichael Herr, Kubrick's co-screenwriter on \"Full Metal Jacket\", who knew him well, considers his \"reclusiveness\" to be myth: \"[H]e was in fact a complete failure as a recluse, unless you believe that a recluse is simply someone who seldom leaves his house. Stanley saw a lot of people ... he was one of the most gregarious men I ever knew, and it didn't change anything that most of this conviviality went on over the phone.\" He hated being photographed, notes Herr, although he let a few people, including his daughter, Vivian, take a few candids when working. Matthew Modine, who became close friends with Kubrick while working in \"Full Metal Jacket\", describes how others saw him:\n\nHerr also describes his voice and conversational style, noting that he had an \"especially fraternal temperament\" and quite a few women found him \"extremely charming.\" He adds that despite his living in England, his Bronx accent was still noticeable, but added that his voice was fluent and \"melodious\". \"it was as close to the condition of music as speech can get and still be speech\"\n\n\"Stanley always seemed supernaturally youthful to his friends,\" writes Herr. \"His voice didn't age over the almost twenty years that I knew him [and] he had a disarming way of 'leavening' serious discourse with low adolescent humor ...\" Ciment adds that he was \"soft-spoken, with a crisp, surprisingly youthful voice, alternately serious and humorous in tone.\"\n\nKubrick dressed simply, wearing the same style clothes every day: beat chinos, a basic blue work shirt, a ripstop cotton fatigue jacket with many pockets, and a pair of well-worn running shoes. \"Many producers and actors thought he dressed like a beatnik\", notes Herr, and his wife thought his baggy trousers made him look like a \"balloon vendor.\" His meals were also simple, \"he has no time to waste,\" writes Ciment.\n\nHis eyes were \"dark, focused, and piercing:\"\nAccording to screenwriter Frederic Raphael, who worked with him on \"Eyes Wide Shut\", \"vanity was not his style; he never cited his own work with complacency and often admired other people's. He could be pitiless, but never conceited ... he solicited my views quite as if I were some venerable oracle.\" That view was shared by Herr: \"Nobody who really thinks he's smarter than everyone else could ask as many questions as he always did, ... and trying to see every movie ever made.\" His inquisitiveness about photography and films started when he was a teenager. He later infiltrated film facilities around New York, hung around editing rooms, laboratories and equipment stores, constantly asking questions.\n\nHerr also notes similarities between Kubrick's temperament and satirist and comedian Lenny Bruce, who was nearly the same age, with their love of jazz, ball games, and their common hipster persona. His temperament as a hipster also reflected Kubrick's likes and dislikes in everyday society. Among those, writes Herr, were his aversions to \"waste, haste, ... [and] bullshit in all its proliferating manifestations, subtle and gross, from the flabby political face telling lies on TV to the most private, much more devastating lies we tell ourselves.\" According to Herr, Kubrick felt that \"hypocrisy was not some petty human foible, it was the corrupted essence of our predicament ...\"\n\nAfter he moved to England, Kubrick especially enjoyed watching his favorite TV shows, including \"The Simpsons\", \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\", \"Seinfeld\", and \"Roseanne\", thinking they were excellent comedies that portrayed American life. He had friends in the U.S. send him tapes of television shows, along with sports events and news broadcasts. Gay Hamilton, one of the stars in \"Barry Lyndon\", recalls one night she couldn't get his attention while he and Ryan O'Neal were watching a boxing video he received from the U.S.\n\n\"He was fiercely unpretentious,\" notes Herr. \"He was exclusive, he had to be, but he wasn't a snob. It wasn't America he couldn't take. It was L.A.\" According to Ciment, \"social standing means nothing to him and he has no interest in acquiring it; money serves exclusively to guarantee him independence.\"\n\nHerr points out that most of what people knew about Kubrick came from the press, primarily the entertainment press. Few of the journalists that wrote about his life met him or knew much about it. He rarely gave interviews, \"because he thought you had to be crazy to do interviews unless you had a picture coming out,\" adds Herr, who contrasted this with the many celebrities eager for the spotlight and thought this contributed to the public image of Kubrick as reclusive.\n\nAmong the notable aspects of his desire for privacy, in his home and film life, was that he never talked about his movies while they were being made. Nor did he like discussing them even afterwards, except to friends. He most of all avoided discussing their \"meaning,\" notes Herr, because \"he believed so completely in their meaning that to try and talk about it could only spoil it\" for the listener. \"He might tell you \"how\" he did it, but never why.\" When he was once asked how he thought up the ending for \"2001\", he replied, \"I don't know. How does anybody ever think of anything?\"\n\nThis aspect of his penchant for privacy may have also contributed to the negative reviews of many of his films or about him personally. Herr states that \"it can never turn out well when a square takes a hipster for his subject.\"\nSimilarly, Ciment argues that his refusal to \"become one of the 'family' may have also \"wrecked his chances of ever being honored\" in Hollywood as a director, similar to the way Charlie Chaplin, Orson Welles and Robert Altman were denied Oscars, all of them considered at the time to be \"rebels\" within the film world.\n\nWhen he did grant interviews, he did so \"with good grace and modesty,\" writes Ciment. A chauffeur would drive reporters to either a pub or to his home office, which was also his editing room. Interviewers would join him in his room \"piled high with cans of film, newspapers, files and card-indexes, like some enormous artist's loft in Montparnasse or Greenwich Village – where this 'eternal student' can work away in privacy.\"\n\nOn March 7, 1999, four days after screening a final cut of \"Eyes Wide Shut\" for his family and the stars, Kubrick died in his sleep at the age of 70, after suffering a massive heart attack. His funeral was held on March 12 at his home estate with friends and family in attendance, totaling approximately 100 people. The media was kept a mile away outside the entrance gate.\n\nAlexander Walker, who attended the funeral, describes it as a \"family farewell, ... almost like an English picnic,\" with cellists, clarinetists and singers providing song and music from many of his favorite classical compositions. Although Kaddish, the Jewish prayer of mourning, was recited, the funeral had no religious overtones, and few of his obituaries mentioned his Jewish background.\n\nAmong those who gave eulogies were Terry Semel, Jan Harlan, Steven Spielberg, Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise. He was buried next to his favorite tree in Childwickbury Manor, Hertfordshire, England. In her book dedicated to Kubrick, his wife Christiane included one of his favorite quotes by Oscar Wilde:\n"}
{"id": "40280276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40280276", "title": "Rastapopoulos", "text": "Rastapopoulos\n\nRoberto Rastapopoulos is a fictional character in \"The Adventures of Tintin\", the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé. He first appears in the album \"Cigars of the Pharaoh\" (1934) and is a criminal mastermind with multiple identities and activities.\n\nA visual prototype for Rastapopoulos appears in \"Tintin in America\", where he is among the assembled dignitaries at a Chicago banquet held in Tintin's honour. Here he is seated next to the actress Mary Pikefort, an allusion to the real-life actress Mary Pickford. Michael Farr asserted that this was indeed a depiction of Rastapopoulos, and that it would be expected for a film director to be seated next to a Hollywood actress. The name \"Rastapopoulos\" had been invented by one of Hergé's friends; Hergé thought it was hilarious and decided to use it. He devised Rastapopoulos as an Italian with a Greek surname, but the character fitted anti-Semitic stereotypes of Jews; Hergé was adamant that the character was not Jewish.\n\nHergé first introduced the character of Rastapopoulos in \"Cigars of the Pharaoh\", which was serialised in \"Le Petit Vingtième\" from 8 December 1932 to 8 February 1934. \nTintin runs into him at the start of the \"Adventure\" aboard the M.S. Isis, a cruise ship docking at Egypt. Here, Rastapopoulos bumps into the Egyptologist Sophocles Sarcophagus, and threatens to beat him until Tintin intervenes. He then shouts at Tintin, accusing him of being an \"Impudent whipper-snapper!\" Tintin recognises Rastapopoulos, commenting that he is \"the millionaire film tycoon, king of Cosmos Pictures... And it's not the first time we've met...\" Later in the story, Tintin runs into Rastapopoulos again, this time running into his desert film set, interrupting an apparent assault on a young woman before realizing that it was only part of the film. Although many of the actors are annoyed, Rastapopoulos is affable, and invites Tintin into his tent where, over a pot of Turkish coffee, Tintin informs him of everything that has happened to him since leaving the cruise ship, Rastapoloulos subsequently providing him with clothes and directions to another village. Farr noted that this idea of the hero mistakenly trusting the villain was one that had been used by John Buchan and Alfred Hitchcock, the latter of whom was an influence on Hergé.\n\nRastapopoulos reappears— this time disguised in a trench-coat and hat— at the end of the story, where he and a fakir kidnap the crown prince of Gaipajama in vengeance for the Maharajah's war against the opium trade. Tintin pursues them, and a car chase ensues, before Tintin encounters the still-disguised Rastapopoulos on a rocky mountainside, with the criminal boss apparently falling to his death when the cliff-ledge he is on breaks under his foot.\n\nHergé reintroduced Rastapopoulos in the following adventure, \"The Blue Lotus\", which was set in China and dealt with the Japanese invasion of Manchuria. In one scene, Tintin hides in a Shanghai cinema that is screening \"The Sheik's House\", Rastapopoulos' film that Tintin witnessed being filmed in the preceding story, later learning that Rastapopoulos, currently staying in the city, was the last person to see a famous doctor who Tintin believes could cure the dangerous poison of madness (Although he accepts Rastapopoulos' story that he dropped the doctor off at his house after a party). At the end of \"The Blue Lotus\", Rastapopoulos is exposed as the leader of the international opium smuggling organisation that Tintin had previously battled in \"Cigars\", and is subsequently imprisoned.\n\nRastapopoulos subsequently resurfaces in the guise of the Marquis di Gorgonzola, a millionaire magnate and slave trader in \"The Red Sea Sharks\", having been forced to assume a new identity after he was arrested for his previous crimes. When Tintin, Haddock, and Skut end up on his yacht (a caricature of Aristotle Onassis luxurious yacht \"Christina\"), he tricks them into getting on Allan's ship, which he later tries to have torpedoed after the crew evacuate and a plan to destroy it in a fire fails. Rastapopulos fakes his death by making his boat sink, while escaping in a submarine from the bottom. \n\nHe later kidnaps the millionaire Laszlo Carreidas in \"Flight 714 to Sydney\" to gain the number of his multi-million Swiss Bank account, concluding that it is easier to steal Carreidas's money than make his own fortune all over again. When he is accidentally injected with truth serum by Dr. Krollspell, he reveals various evil deeds, such as his plan to kill Dr. Krollspell afterwards. He is taken hostage by Tintin. Like Krollspell and Carreidas, he is tied up and gagged with sticking plaster. Throughout the course of the story he suffers more and more injuries. First when Haddock breaks his gun chasing Rastapopoulos, he throws part of it away, and it hits the hiding Rastapopoulos on the head. When he continues to run away and is called to by Allan, he is distracted and crashes into a tree. He experiences pain to the face when Allan pulls the sticking plaster off. When Allan is about to throw a grenade at Tintin and Co, he remembers that Rastapopoulos wants Carreidas alive and throws it away. Rastapopoulos is caught in the blast, leaving his clothes in tatters. When Allan pulls Carreidas' hat from under a stone head, he accidentally elbows Rastapopoulos, giving him a black eye. Later his bump on the head goes away, which he takes as a good omen. However a piece of rock falls onto his head just after he notices this as the result of an earthquake, causing another bump. When explosives are used by the gang to break through a stone barrier, a volcanic eruption is set off, forcing them to flee from the Island in a rubber dinghy. He and his gang are hypnotized by Mik Kanrokitoff and taken onto a UFO. What happens next to them is unrevealed.\n\nIn the unfinished \"Tintin and Alph-Art\", a character often thought to be Rastapopoulos in disguise—under the name of Endaddine Akass—appears. Although a page revealing Akass to be Rastapopoulos was started (and printed in the 2004 Egmont edition), as the book was never completed, Rastapopoulos' fate following \"Flight 714 to Sydney\" is unknown.\n\nRastapopoulos also appears in \"Tintin and the Lake of Sharks\", an animated film and later adapted into a similarly titled book. In this story written by a friend of Hergé, Rastapopoulos is a criminal gang leader directing operations from a secret underwater base. He is behind numerous robberies of valuable items around the world and plans to steal a duplicating machine invented by Professor Calculus, allowing him to replace the items with perfect fakes so that nobody will know of his crimes. However while trying to escape by submarine after his activities are exposed, he is captured by Tintin and Haddock, and arrested by the Syldavian Police.\n\nRastapopoulos is also mentioned in \"Castafiore Emerald\", where it is revealed that the newspaper wanted him to marry Castafiore.\n\nMichael Farr argued that the relationship between Tintin and Rastapopoulos was akin to that between Sherlock Holmes and Professor Moriarty in Arthur Conan Doyle's stories. Farr thought that Rastapopoulos was the one enemy who \"it must be feared, might one day get the better of him.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25831400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25831400", "title": "Rory Williams", "text": "Rory Williams\n\nRory Williams is a fictional character portrayed by Arthur Darvill in the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". Having been introduced at the start of the 5th series, Rory joins the Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith) as a companion in the middle of Series 5. As Amy Pond's fiancé, Rory is initially insecure because he believes Amy secretly loves the Doctor more. Later, however, he proves to be a hero in his own right and he and Amy get married. The couple conceive a daughter aboard the Doctor's time machine, the TARDIS, while in the time vortex, but their baby is kidnapped at birth. In \"A Good Man Goes to War\", Rory and Amy discover their time-traveler friend River Song is actually their daughter Melody Pond. The Doctor and River marry in \"The Wedding of River Song\", and Rory becomes the Doctor's father-in-law.\nIn \"The Angels Take Manhattan\", the fifth episode of the seventh series, he and Amy are transported back in time by a Weeping Angel, leading to the couple's departure from the series.\n\nRory is introduced in \"The Eleventh Hour\" (2010) as a nurse in a coma ward and the \"sort of boyfriend\" of new companion Amelia Pond (Karen Gillan). He is shocked to meet Amy's 'imaginary' \"Raggedy Doctor\" - the Eleventh Doctor (Matt Smith), whom he instantly recognises from Amy's childhood stories. Two years later, Amy absconds on the eve of their wedding to travel with the Doctor, whom, at the end of an initial travelling period, she tries to seduce. In response, the Doctor takes Amy and Rory to 1580s Venice to repair and strengthen the couple's relationship; at the end of the episode Rory joins them as a travelling companion. In \"Amy's Choice\", in a shared realistic dream where he is a doctor married to a pregnant Amy, he tells her with his dying breath to look after their baby, which causes Amy to realise how much she loves him. Rory travels with the Doctor and Amy until mid-series when, in \"Cold Blood\", he is shot dead by a Silurian after saving the Doctor and then absorbed by a crack in time and space, erasing him from existence and from Amy's memory.\n\nHe next appears in \"The Pandorica Opens\", as a Roman soldier in 102 C.E., but is revealed to be an Auton with Rory's memories. Rory attempts to fight his Auton programming, but unwillingly shoots Amy. In the Series 5 finale episode,\"The Big Bang\", the duplicate Rory preserves Amy in stasis using a futuristic prison called the Pandorica, voluntarily watching over her for almost two millennia. He becomes known as the \"Last Centurion\", guarding the Pandorica wherever it is taken. The Auton Rory assists the Doctor, Amy, and River Song (Alex Kingston) in saving the universe from the explosion that caused the cracks in time. Restored to his original human timeline but still possessing memories of his Auton existence, Rory marries Amy. The couple continue traveling with the Doctor, who allows them a honeymoon. They are said to still be on their honeymoon in both \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" serial \"Death of the Doctor\" and the Christmas special \"A Christmas Carol\".\n\nSeries 6 premiere \"The Impossible Astronaut\" (2011) begins with Amy and Rory living back on Earth when they are contacted by the Doctor, via a letter, to meet him in America. In Utah they witness the Doctor dying in his relative future at the hands of a mysterious assassin. In \"The Almost People,\" it's revealed Amy has been kidnapped and replaced with a Ganger – a duplicate animated by the real Amy's consciousness – which the Doctor disintegrates upon deducing the situation, just as the real Amy goes into labour on a secret asteroid base called \"Demon's Run\". Amy gives birth to their daughter, Melody Pond, between \"The Almost People\" and \"A Good Man Goes To War\"; Madame Kovarian (Frances Barber) and the Silence plan to raise her as a weapon against the Doctor because she has been born with Time Lord-like abilities. Dressed in his centurion armor, he faces down a space fleet of Cybermen to learn Amy's location, and assists the Doctor in assembling an army to rescue her. Though Amy and Rory are distressed they were unable to save Melody from being kidnapped by Madam Kovarian, River appears at the episode's climax and reveals to Amy and Rory that she is their daughter, Melody. \"Let's Kill Hitler\" begins by revealing that Melody went on to become Amy and Rory's childhood friend, Mels, so that she might one day meet and kill the Doctor. As Amy had initially assumed Rory was gay due to his lack of interest in other women, a teenage Mels (Nina Toussaint-White) had been the one to inform Amy of Rory's affections. On 21st century Earth, Mels hijacks the TARDIS and directs it to 1938, where she is shot by Hitler (Albert Welling) and regenerates into River Song. They learn she is the assailant they saw kill the Doctor in his future. At the episode's conclusion, they decide to let the adult River make her own way in life and continue their travels.\n\nRory features prominently in \"The Girl Who Waited\", where he is confronted with the horrible consequences time travel has had on a version of his wife. In \"The God Complex\", he is the only one of the TARDIS crew who is not hunted by the creature that feeds on faith because of Rory's rational nature and lack of personal faith. The Doctor eventually realises the danger he is exposing his friends to and returns Amy and Rory to Earth, giving them a house and a car as exit presents. The Doctor next glimpses the couple in \"Closing Time\", some time after he left them. The pair appear in his life once again when River creates an alternate reality by refusing to kill the Doctor. They witness the Doctor marry River in the alternate universe before returning to the established course of events where the Doctor once again appears to die. Once reality is restored, however, they are visited by their daughter River, who tells them the secret that the Doctor is still alive, and that the version of him that died had been a robot duplicate. Though he wishes the world to believe he is dead, the Doctor joins Rory and Amy two years in their future for Christmas dinner in the Christmas special \"The Doctor, the Widow and the Wardrobe\".\n\nSeries seven opener \"Asylum of the Daleks\" (2012) establishes early on that Amy and Rory are set to divorce. The Daleks kidnap the Doctor to go on a mission for them, as well as kidnapping Rory and Amy on the day they are about to sign their divorce papers because they know the Doctor works better with companions. During the mission, the Doctor engineers a reconciliation between the two. The two discuss their feelings for each other. It is revealed Amy left Rory because she has been infertile since \"A Good Man Goes to War\", and she knew he wanted children. The Doctor subsequently embarks on sporadic journeys with the Ponds. Rory is said to be 31 years old at the time of \"Dinosaurs on a Spaceship\".\n\nThey rejoin him as permanent companions prior to their last adventure in \"The Angels Take Manhattan\". In this story, Rory is sent back to 1930s New York by a Weeping Angel, where he encounters River, and is tracked there by the Doctor and Amy, where he finds himself repeatedly the victim of Weeping Angels repeatedly attacking him and dislocating him in space and time. It is discovered he is in an Angel \"battery farm\", where they intend to trap him until he dies of old age. Rory even encounters his dying older self there. Amy and Rory jump from a building to create a paradox and destroy the Angels, but one survives and sends Rory back in time. Amy chooses to let it send her back in time as well, and due to the massive paradox the Doctor can never reunite with them. From a tombstone he learns that Rory died at age 82, and Amy at 87. The website-only epilogue \"P.S.\" later reveals that Rory and Amy adopted a son, in 1946, and named him Anthony Brian Williams. His middle name was chosen after Rory's father, Brian, to whom Rory sent a letter in \"P.S.\".\n\nRory appears alongside the Doctor and Amy in numerous Doctor Who stories found in the New Series Adventures novels, the 2in1 series chapter books, the Quick Reads novels, and original audiobooks.\n\nFor his audition, Arthur Darvill received two scenes from the first episode and one from the sixth, but beyond the fact Rory was Amy's boyfriend he was not informed of details of the character. Lead writer and executive producer Steven Moffat stated that what stood out about Darvill's audition was \"just how funny\" he was. Darvill felt \"privileged\" to be part of the show, and was pleased with Rory's storyline. Darvill had previously worked with Matt Smith on a play called \"Swimming with Sharks\". He became a regular with \"A Christmas Carol\"; Darvill had his \"fingers crossed\" that he would become a regular.\n\nRory was a character who was \"completely in love\" with Amy, but Amy had things to do in life before admitting she loved him too. Moffat described Rory as someone who had grown up in the \"shadow\" of Amy's imaginary Doctor. Rory became a nurse because of this. Rory eventually evolves into a \"bumbling action hero\". Speaking of Rory's characterisation in the first series, actor Darvill felt that he was \"on the outside looking into this world he was desperately trying to save Amy from.\" Executive producer Steven Moffat had intended to have a married couple on the TARDIS \"from the off\". Darvill stated of the couple's marriage that Amy will always \"wear the trousers\". However, he felt that Rory's marriage had stopped the character \"feeling so unworthy.\" In regards to how Rory changed between series five and six, Darvill stated that \"his sense of adventure has awoken\" and that he is more comfortable with himself.\n\nRory's frequent deaths in the programme have been subject to criticism. Digital Spy reviewer Morgan Jeffery wrote, \"One of the key elements in \"Doctor Who\" is obviously the sense of danger and the lingering presence of death, but Rory's repeated demises and resurrections are now becoming so frequent that comparisons to \"South Park\" Kenny seem almost inevitable.\" In a review for \"The Doctor's Wife\", Neela Debnath of \"The Independent\" announced that \"Rory-gets-killed fatigue has now officially set in\". On the other hand, \"SFX\" awarded Rory the third spot in the top 10 resurrections of science fiction TV, saying that \"it's becoming a cliché. But it's not one we mind too much, mainly because it's always done with such gusto. Except, perhaps, in the pirates episode which was a fairly gusto free zone all round\".\n\nHowever, critics have celebrated the increased opportunities for Rory to be heroic in series 6. Following the airing of \"A Good Man Goes to War\", io9's Charlie Jane Anders compared the character to Wesley Wyndam-Pryce (Alexis Denisof), whose arc in the American television programmes \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"Angel\" similarly saw him transition from laughable comic relief to a genuine warrior. Anders comments: \"We're thrilled that Rory is getting his Wesley Wyndam-Pryce on. Badass Rory is, as we already observed, totally badass.\" Sam McPherson of Zap2it believed that Rory had the most character development of the characters in the fifth series, evolving into a \"generally enjoyable character\".\n\nThe \"Radio Times\" blog singled the character out for praise: \"As a traveller in the Tardis, Rory probably speaks for the audience far more than past companions have. Sure, we all like to think we'd spring into action just like the Doctor. But in truth, if we joined an eccentric alien on a journey through time and space, we'd probably be more Rory than Rose.\" However, in 2015 Michael Hogan of \"The Daily Telegraph\" criticised the general portrayal of male companion figures in \"Doctor Who\". He described Rory, alongside 2005-2006 character Mickey Smith (Noel Clarke) and 2014 character Danny Pink (Samuel Anderson) as all \"basically soppy, sappy, slightly annoying plus-ones to far superior females\".\n\nRory was named \"TV Character of the Year\" in the Virgin Media TV Awards in 2012. \"SFX\" named Amy and Rory the second-best science fiction and fantasy romance.\n\n"}
{"id": "5703276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703276", "title": "Royal Standard of Spain", "text": "Royal Standard of Spain\n\nThe Royal Standard of Spain (\"Estandarte Real or Estandarte del Rey\") is the official flag of the King of Spain. It comprises a crimson square, traditional colour of both Castilian and Spanish monarchs, with the coat of arms of the King in the center. It is raised over the official royal residence in Madrid, the Palacio de la Zarzuela and other Spanish royal sites, when the monarch is in residence and displayed on his official car as small flag. The current flag was adopted when Felipe VI acceded the throne as King of Spain on 19 June 2014. The Royal Standard is regulated by Rule 2 of Royal Decree 527/2014, 20 June, an amendment to Title II of Spanish Royal Decree 1511/1977 adopting Flags, Standards, Guidons, Insignia and Emblems Regulation.\n\nThe Royal Guidon (\"Guión\"), the military personal ensign, was also adopted on 19 June 2014. It is described by Rule 1 of Royal Decree 527/2014, an amendment to Title II, Rule 1 of Spanish Royal Decree 1511/1977.\n\nIt is similar to the Royal Standard except the Royal Guidon has a gold surround. It is made of silk's taffeta and measures 80 x 80 cm in size. It is the personal command sign or positional flag of the monarch and traditionally was carried with him. The proportions of the coat of arms are smaller than on the standard.\n\nThe heraldic standard, also known as the \"pendón real\", has been, as in other European monarchies, the personal flag of the Spanish monarchs and has been used in events of greater solemnity. It was formed by the elements of the monarch's shield without the exterior adornments and has not recovered since its disappearance in 1931.\n\nThe royal standard is the personal banner of the monarch. The guidon, of military use, was formed from the reign of Philip II by the same elements of the standard but incorporating the Cross of Burgundy, a fringe and a \"cordoncillo\". During the period of the House of Austria, the Cross of Burgundy did not appear frequently in the royal standard. The Catholic Monarchs and Charles I (as monarchs of Castile) used the guidon of the Castilian monarchs, the \"Banda de Castilla\" which was a square flag of crimson color in which there was a band between two dragons. The Catholic Monarchs included in the Band of Castile the yoke and arrows which were replaced with the Columns of Hercules during the reign of Charles I. Fernando the Catholic also used the guidon that corresponded to him as monarch of Aragon. The Catholic Monarchs also frequently used, since 1492, a banner that consisted of a white cloth with their coat of arms.\n\n\nThe Standard of the Princess of Asturias (\"Estandarte de la Princesa de Asturias\") is regulated by Royal Decree 979/2015, an amendment to Title II of Spanish Royal Decree 1511/1977.\n\nThe Princess's Standard comprises a light blue (the colour of the Flag of Asturias) square flag displaying the coat of arms of the Prince of Asturias in the center. The Guidon, her military ensign has a gold surround.\n\nThe banner of arms is square or oblong heraldic flag that is larger than the pennons, bearing the entire coat of arms of the owner, composed precisely as upon a shield but in a square or rectangular shape. Banners of Knights of the Order of the Garter are displayed during their lifetime in St George's Chapel in Windsor. From Victorian times Garter banners have been approximately 5 feet by 5 feet. and have fringe. Reigning European monarchs are admitted to the Order as Strangers. Juan Carlos I of Spain (1988) and his successor Felipe VI (2017) are concurrently Stranger Knights of the Garter. The Spanish monarch's banner (like the arms) are divided into four-quarters: 1st for Castile, 2nd for León, 3rd for Aragon and 4th for Navarre; enté en point, with a pomegranate for Granada and an inescutcheon with the arms of the regnant House of Bourbon-Anjou. The fringe is golden as other foreign monarchs and British Royal Family members.\n\nThe castle of Castile, with three windows and narrow, and the Navarrese chains are carefully detailed in both banners according to the designs displayed in the amendment to Title II of Royal Decree 527/2014 (for King Felipe VI) and the original contents of the Title II of Spanish Royal Decree 1511/1977 (for King Juan Carlos).\n\nThe tinctures of the pomegranate are changed in the banner of King Juan Carlos, \"Gules seeded Or\", and it is carefully designed and coloured in his successor's one, \"proper\" (light) \"seeded Gules\". The colour of the lion is so darkly in the case of King Juan Carlos and precise in Felipe VI's heraldic flag. Other Spanish members of the Garter were Ferdinand the Catholic, Charles I (1508-†1558), Philip II (1554-†1598), Ferdinand VII (1814–†1833), Alfonso XII (1881–†1885) and Alfonso XIII (1902–†1941).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51989151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51989151", "title": "Ryan Maness", "text": "Ryan Maness\n\nRyan Maness is an American cybersecurity expert.\n\nRyan Maness received a PhD from the University of Illinois at Chicago.\n\nManess is a Visiting Fellow in Political Science at Northeastern University. He is the co-author of two books. In \"Cyber Wars versus Cyber Realities\", he argues that the era of cyberwar has been characterized by \"restraint\". He believes that Russia will not tamper with US voter machines in the 2016 presidential election.\n\nManess is a member of the American Political Science Association, the Midwest Political Science Association, the International Studies Association and the Cyber Intelligence Network.\n\n"}
{"id": "54262097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54262097", "title": "Salome Sellers", "text": "Salome Sellers\n\nSalome Sellers (\"née\" Sylvester; January 1, 1800 – January 9, 1909) was an American centenarian who was the last known survivor from the 18th century.\n\nSalome Sylvester was born in Deer Isle, Maine (then part of Massachusetts), the daughter of Edward and Deborah (\"née\" Cushman) Sylvester. She grew up on Deer Isle and married Joseph Sellers on 23 December 1830. The couple had six children together, Salome outliving all but her oldest son, William. She was widowed in 1865.\n\nDue to her unusually long life, Salome was often featured in local newspapers and visited by people interested in her long life, something Salome once expressed as, \"I've lived too long. I'm only a curiosity now for people to come and stare at\".\n\nSalome Sellers died in the same house she and her husband had built in 1830 in Deer Isle, Maine on 9 January 1909, aged 109 years, 8 days. Her house is now known as the Salome Sellers House and home to the Deer Isle-Stonington Historical Society. There has also been a book written about her life: \"An Island Woman: Salome Sylvester Sellers, 1800-1909\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49025510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49025510", "title": "Salpi (writer)", "text": "Salpi (writer)\n\nAram Sahakian (Արամ Մ․ Աահակյան ; born Kayseri, 1884 - Constanta, 1968) better known by the penname M. Salpi (Սալբի) was an Armenian writer and doctor. Sahakian served as a medical officer in the Ottoman army during the World War I, and then as resident doctor at the Armenian refugee camp in Port Said, Egypt. Sahakian began collecting the stories of Armenian soldiers and refugees following the deportations and massacres of their communities. He was best known for \"Our Cross\" (Armenian: «Մեր խաչը» Mer Khachu), a collection of short stories originally printed in 1921 in Paris, subsequently published in English in Los Angeles. Among his other works is \"Patgamavor shunery\" («Պատգամավոր շուները» 1945).\n"}
{"id": "607919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607919", "title": "Samuel Crompton", "text": "Samuel Crompton\n\nSamuel Crompton (3 December 1753 – 26 June 1827) was an English inventor and pioneer of the spinning industry. Building on the work of James Hargreaves and Richard Arkwright he invented the spinning mule, a machine that revolutionised the industry worldwide.\n\nSamuel Crompton was born in 10 Firwood Fold, Bolton, Lancashire to George and Betty Crompton (née Elizabeth Holt of Turton). His father was a caretaker at nearby Hall i' th' Wood. Samuel had two younger sisters. While he was a boy he lost his father and had to contribute to the family resources by spinning yarn, learning to spin on James Hargreaves's spinning jenny. The deficiencies of the imbued him with the idea of devising something better, which he worked on in secret for five or six years. The effort absorbed all his spare time and money, including that which he earned by playing the violin at the Bolton theatre.\n\nOn 16 February 1780 at Bolton Parish Church, Crompton married Mary Pimlott (or Pimbley). They had eight children including George Crompton (born 8 January 1781), who followed in the family business.\n\nAbout 1779, Samuel Crompton succeeded in producing a mule-jenny, a machine which spun yarn suitable for use in the manufacture of muslin. It was known as the \"muslin wheel\" or the \"Hall i' th' Woodwheel\", from the name of the house in which he and his family now lived. The mule-jenny later became known as the spinning mule. There was a strong demand for the yarn which Crompton was making at Hall i' th' Wood but he lacked the means to take out a patent. The prying into his methods forced Crompton to choose between destroying his machine or making it public. He adopted the latter alternative after promises by a number of manufacturers to pay him for the use of the mule but all he received was about £60. He then resumed spinning on his own account, but with indifferent success. \n\nThe mule-jenny twisted the rovings using rollers in the manner of Arkwright's frame, while the spindle carriage moved back and forth 54 inches to stretch the thread, and then to gather it in the spinning spindles in the manner of Hargreaves jenny. The mule's importance was that it could spin thread better than could be done by hand, which led to ever finer thread. Coarse thread (40s) sold for 14 shillings per pound whilst (80s) spun on his mule sold at 42 shillings a pound.\n\nAs the mule was unpatented others soon manufactured it. The machine was constructed in iron, power was applied to assist the inward motion in 1790 and by 1834 it was fully automatic or self-acting. A survey in 1812 showed there were between 4 and 5 million mule spindles in use. Crompton received no royalties for his invention.\n\nIn 1800, a sum of £500 was raised for his benefit by subscription, and when in 1809, Edmund Cartwright, the inventor of the power loom, obtained £10,000 from parliament, Crompton was determined to apply for a grant. In 1811, he toured the manufacturing districts of Lancashire and Scotland to collect evidence showing how extensively his mule was being used, and in 1812 parliament awarded him £5000. With the aid of this money, Crompton started a business as a bleacher and then as a cotton merchant and spinner, but without success. In 1824, some friends and members (including Isaac and Benjamin Dobson, Benjamin Hick, John Kennedy and Peter Rothwell) of Bolton's Black Horse \"prosecution\" Club, bought him an annuity of £63 without his knowledge.\n\nCrompton died at his house in King Street, Bolton on 26 June 1827, and was buried at the parish church of St Peter's.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37987951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37987951", "title": "Sarah Gott", "text": "Sarah Gott\n\nSarah Gott is an American winemaker.\n\nGott originally attended the University of California, Davis with the intention of studying veterinary medicine. With a long time love for food and wine, she opted to study in enology instead at the University. She received her Bachelor of Science in fermentation science in 1993. She is married to winemaker Joel Gott. They have three children. She enjoys participating in triathlons.\n\nAfter graduation, Gott interned at Joseph Phelps Winery located in St. Helena, California, Gloria Ferrer in Sonoma, California, and Wirra Wirra in Australia. She completed these internships in three years. While at Joseph Phelps, she was mentored by Craig Williams and worked in the winery labs as an assistant enologist. She became assistant winemaker at Joseph Phelps in 1994. In 2002, she became head winemaker. In 2004, she started working as the first full-time winemaker at Quintessa Wine. Gott left Phelps, where she was responsible for producing 90,000 cases of various wines each year, to create a small batch of wine at Quintessa, totaling 10,000 cases.\n\nTwo years later, in 2004, she started working as winemaker at Oakville East Wine Company. She has provided consulting services for Clif Family Winery and Blackbird Vineyards. The first Merlot she created for Blackbird Vineyards, a 2003 Merlot, was awarded 95-points from Vintrust. Today, Gott serves as Director of Winemaking at Joel Gott Wines, which she co-runs with her husband, winemaker Joel Gott.\n\n"}
{"id": "38225863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38225863", "title": "Seidenbeutel brothers", "text": "Seidenbeutel brothers\n\nThe Seidenbeutel brothers were Polish Jewish artists who were twins. Efraim Seidenbeutel and Menasze Seidenbeutel were born on December 7, 1907. They were killed in 1945, at the Flossenbürg concentration camp. They had two brothers who were also artists: Józef, the oldest, was a painter and Hirsz, the youngest, was a sculptor.\n\nThe Seidenbeutels are considered \"Interwar Artists\" and painted in the Post-expressionism of École de Paris. They painted mostly landscapes and still life scenes. The twins had a unique way of working; one brother would start a painting and the other brother would finish it. They would sign the painting with just their surname. Even the works the twins created separately have an almost identical style.\n\nThe Seidenbeutels were born in Warsaw. Their father, Abraham, was a textile trader, and their mother took care of the eight children. Efraim's and Menasze's six siblings included Józef, the oldest, who was also a painter and Hirsz, who was younger and was a sculptor.\n\nThe Seidenbeutels signed up for painting studies in 1921, at the Municipal School of Decorative Arts. In 1922, their sculpture titled “The Portrait of Anski” was shown at the 4th Exhibition of Paintings and Sculptures organized by the Jewish community. Thereafter, they became students at the Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw, where they belonged to the elitist group \"Four\" set up by the Rector Tadeusz Pruszkowski. Monika Żeromska remembers that the twins enrolled in school as one student, paid one fee, and took turns attending classes.\n\nThe Seidenbeutels had their own studio at the Jewish dorm on Sierakowskiego Street in the Warsaw district of Praga. Frequently, they would go on field trips to small villages and paint en plein air. One of the towns they visited frequently was Kazimierz Dolny. During the late 1920s and early 1930s they would arrive for a 'season' carrying over 24 stretched canvases each, and complete them in 30–60 days. These canvases would be exhibited in Warsaw and Krakow, and would sell out. They met with other artists and inspired younger ones, such as Chaim Goldberg. They met Goldberg when he was eleven years-old and bought his en plein air gouache; it was Goldberg's first sale.\n\nDuring World War II and the Nazi occupation, the Seidenbeutels were confined within the ghetto in Białystok where they worked at the House of Art in the army. They may have belonged to a group of painters, set up by Oskar Steffens, who copied reproductions of paintings by old masters. The twins were later sent to the Stutthof concentration camp, from which they were marched to the death camp in Flossenbürg. They were executed by the camp’s guards one day before the camp was liberated. Izaak Celnikier, also a painter, was a witness to their deaths.\n\nThe Seidenbeutels had a unique bond that intrigues experts to the present day. One brother would start a painting while the other completed it, and the signature was their surname. They signed their paintings this way even when completing a painting individually.\n\nTheir similar looks became the subject of jokes, the most popular of which is the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83076", "title": "Sphinx", "text": "Sphinx\n\nA sphinx ( , Boeotian: , plural sphinxes or sphinges) is a mythical creature with the head of a human and the body of a lion.\n\nIn Greek tradition, it has the head of a human, the haunches of a lion, and sometimes the wings of a bird. It is mythicised as treacherous and merciless. Those who cannot answer its riddle suffer a fate typical in such mythological stories, as they are killed and eaten by this ravenous monster. This deadly version of a sphinx appears in the myth and drama of Oedipus. Unlike the Greek sphinx, which was a woman, the Egyptian sphinx is typically shown as a man (an androsphinx ()). In addition, the Egyptian sphinx was viewed as benevolent, but having a ferocious strength similar to the malevolent Greek version and both were thought of as guardians often flanking the entrances to temples.\n\nIn European decorative art, the sphinx enjoyed a major revival during the Renaissance. Later, the sphinx image, something very similar to the original Ancient Egyptian concept, was exported into many other cultures, albeit often interpreted quite differently, due to translations of descriptions of the originals and the evolution of the concept in relation to other cultural traditions.\n\nSphinxes depictions are generally associated with architectural structures such as royal tombs or religious temples. The oldest known sphinx was found near Gobekli Tepe at another site, Nevali Çori, or possibly 195 kilometres (120 mi) to the east at Kortik Tepe, Turkey, and was dated to 9,500 B.C.\n\nThe largest and most famous sphinx is the Great Sphinx of Giza, situated on the Giza Plateau adjacent to the Great Pyramids of Giza on the west bank of the Nile River and facing east (). The sphinx is located southeast of the pyramids. Although the date of its construction is uncertain, the head of the Great Sphinx now is believed to bear the likeness of the pharaoh Khafra.\n\nWhat names their builders gave to these statues is not known. At the Great Sphinx site, a 1400 B.C. inscription on a stele belonging to the 18th dynasty pharaoh Thutmose IV lists the names of three aspects of the local sun deity of that period, \"Khepera–Rê–Atum\". Many pharaohs had their heads carved atop the guardian statues for their tombs to show their close relationship with the powerful solar deity Sekhmet, a lioness. Besides the Great Sphinx, other famous Egyptian sphinxes include one bearing the head of the pharaoh Hatshepsut, with her likeness carved in granite, which is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and the alabaster sphinx of Memphis, Memphis, Egypt, currently located within the open-air museum at that site. The theme was expanded to form great avenues of guardian sphinxes lining the approaches to tombs and temples as well as serving as details atop the posts of flights of stairs to very grand complexes. Nine hundred sphinxes with ram heads, representing Amon, were built in Thebes, where his cult was strongest.\n\nThe Great Sphinx has become an emblem of Egypt, frequently appearing on its stamps, coins, and official documents.\n\nIn the Bronze Age, the Hellenes had trade and cultural contacts with Egypt. Before the time that Alexander the Great occupied Egypt, the Greek name, \"sphinx\", was already applied to these statues. The historians and geographers of Greece wrote extensively about Egyptian culture. Herodotus called the ram-headed sphinxes Criosphinxes and called the hawk-headed ones Hieracosphinxes.\n\nIn Greek mythology, a sphinx is represented as a monster with a head of a woman, the body of a lioness, the wings of an eagle, and a serpent-headed tail.\n\nThe word \"sphinx\" comes from the Greek Σφίγξ, apparently from the verb σφίγγω (\"sphíngō\"), meaning \"to squeeze\", \"to tighten up\". This name may be derived from the fact that, in a pride of lions, the hunters are the lionesses, and kill their prey by strangulation, biting the throat of prey and holding them down until they die. However, the historian Susan Wise Bauer suggests that the word \"sphinx\" was instead a Greek corruption of the Egyptian name \"shesepankh\", which meant \"living image\", and referred rather to the \"statue\" of the sphinx, which was carved out of \"living rock\" (rock that was present at the construction site, not harvested and brought from another location), than to the beast itself.\n\nThere was a single \"sphinx\" in Greek mythology, a unique demon of destruction and bad luck. According to Hesiod, she was a daughter of Orthrus and either Echidna or the Chimera, or perhaps even Ceto; according to others, she was a daughter of Echidna and Typhon. All of these are chthonic figures from the earliest of Greek myths, before the Olympians ruled the Greek pantheon. The Sphinx is called Phix (Φίξ) by Hesiod in line 326 of the Theogony, the proper name for the Sphinx noted by Pierre Grimal's \"The Penguin Dictionary of Classical Mythology\".\n\nThe sphinx was the emblem of the ancient city-state of Chios, and appeared on seals and the obverse side of coins from the 6th century B.C. until the 3rd century CE.\n\nThe Sphinx is said to have guarded the entrance to the Greek city of Thebes, asking a riddle to travellers to allow them passage. The exact riddle asked by the Sphinx was not specified by early tellers of the myth, and was not standardized as the one given below until late in Greek history.\nIt was said in late lore that Hera or Ares sent the Sphinx from her Aethiopian homeland (the Greeks always remembered the foreign origin of the Sphinx) to Thebes in Greece where she asked all passersby the most famous riddle in history: \"Which creature has one voice and yet becomes four-footed and two-footed and three-footed?\" She strangled and devoured anyone who could not answer. Oedipus solved the riddle by answering: \"Man—who crawls on all fours as a baby, then walks on two feet as an adult, and then uses a walking stick in old age\". By some accounts (but much more rarely), there was a second riddle: \"There are two sisters: one gives birth to the other and she, in turn, gives birth to the first. Who are the two sisters?\" The answer is \"day and night\" (both words—\"ἡμέρα\" and \"νύξ\", respectively—are feminine in Ancient Greek). This second riddle is also found in a Gascon version of the myth and could be very ancient.\n\nBested at last, the Sphinx then threw herself from her high rock and died. An alternative version tells that she devoured herself. In both cases, Oedipus can therefore be recognized as a \"liminal\" or threshold figure, helping effect the transition between the old religious practices, represented by the death of the Sphinx, and the rise of the new, Olympian gods.\n\nIn Jean Cocteau's retelling of the Oedipus legend, \"The Infernal Machine\", the Sphinx tells Oedipus the answer to the riddle in order to kill herself so that she did not have to kill anymore, and also to make him love her. He leaves without ever thanking her for giving him the answer to the riddle. The scene ends when the Sphinx and Anubis ascend back to the heavens.\n\nThere are mythic, anthropological, psychoanalytic and parodic interpretations of the Riddle of the Sphinx, and of Oedipus's answer to it. Sigmund Freud describes \"the question of where babies come from\" as a riddle of the Sphinx.\n\nNumerous riddle books use the Sphinx in their title or illustrations.\n\nMichael Maier, in his book the \"Atalanta Fugiens\" (1617) writes the following remark about the Sphinx's riddle, in which he states that its solution is the Philosopher's Stone:\nSphinx is indeed reported to have had many Riddles, but this offered to Oedipus was the chief, \"What is that which in the morning goeth upon four feet; upon two feet in the afternoon; and in the Evening upon three?\" What was answered by Oedipus is not known. But they who interpret concerning the Ages of Man are deceived. For a Quadrangle of Four Elements are of all things first to be considered, from thence we come to the Hemisphere having two lines, a Right and a Curve, that is, to the White Luna; from thence to the Triangle which consists of Body, Soul and Spirit, or Sol, Luna and Mercury. Hence Rhasis in his Epistles, \"The Stone,\" says he, \"is a Triangle in its essence, a Quadrangle in its quality.\"\n\nA composite mythological being with the body of a lion and the head of a human being is present in the traditions, mythology and art of South and Southeast Asia. Variously known as \"purushamriga\" (Sanskrit, \"man-beast\"), \"purushamirugam\" (Tamil, \"man-beast\"), \"naravirala\" (Sanskrit, \"man-cat\") in India, or as \"nara-simha\" (Sanskrit, \"man-lion\") in Sri Lanka, \"manusiha\" or \"manuthiha\" (Pali, \"man-lion\") in Myanmar, and \"norasingh\" (from Pali, \"man-lion\", a variation of the Sanskrit \"nara-simha\") or \"thep norasingh\" (\"man-lion deity\"), or \"nora nair\" in Thailand.\n\nIn contrast to the sphinxes in Egypt, Mesopotamia, and Greece, of which the traditions largely have been lost due to the discontinuity of the civilization, the traditions related to the \"Asian sphinxes\" are very much alive today. The earliest artistic depictions of \"sphinxes\" from the South Asian subcontinent are to some extent influenced by Hellenistic art and writings. These hail from the period when Buddhist art underwent a phase of Hellenistic influence. Numerous sphinxes can be seen on the gateways of Bharhut stupa, dating to the 1st Century B.C.\n\nIn South India, the \"sphinx\" is known as \"purushamriga\" (Sanskrit) or \"purushamirugam \" (Tamil), meaning \"human-beast\". It is found depicted in sculptural art in temples and palaces where it serves an apotropaic purpose, just as the \"sphinxes\" in other parts of the ancient world. It is said by the tradition, to take away the sins of the devotees when they enter a temple and to ward off evil in general. It is therefore often found in a strategic position on the gopuram or temple gateway, or near the entrance of the Sanctum Sanctorum.\nThe \"purushamriga\" plays a significant role in daily as well as yearly ritual of South Indian Shaiva temples. In the shodhasha-upakaara (or sixteen honors) ritual, performed between one and six times at significant sacred moments through the day, it decorates one of the lamps of the diparadhana or lamp ceremony. And in several temples the \"purushamriga\" is also one of the \"vahana\" or vehicles of the deity during the processions of the Brahmotsava or festival.\n\nIn Kanya Kumari district, in the southernmost tip of the Indian subcontinent, during the night of Shiva Ratri, devotees run 75 kilometres while visiting and worshiping at twelve Shiva temples. This Shiva Ottam (or Run for Shiva) is performed in commemoration of the story of the race between the Sphinx and Bhima, one of the heroes of the epic \"Mahabharata\".\n\nThe Indian conception of a sphinx that comes closest to the classic Greek idea is in the concept of the \"Sharabha\", a mythical creature, part lion, part man and part bird, and the form of Sharabha that god Shiva took on to counter Narasimha's violence.\n\nIn Sri Lanka the sphinx is known as \"narasimha\" or man-lion. As a sphinx, it has the body of a lion and the head of a human being, and is not to be confused with Narasimha, the fourth reincarnation of the deity Vishnu; this avatar or incarnation is depicted with a human body and the head of a lion. The \"sphinx\" narasimha is part of the Buddhist tradition and functions as a guardian of the northern direction and also was depicted on banners.\n\nIn Burma, the sphinx is known as \"manussiha\" (\"manuthiha\"). It is depicted on the corners of Buddhist stupas, and its legends tell how it was created by Buddhist monks to protect a new-born royal baby from being devoured by ogresses.\n\nNora Nair, Norasingh and Thep Norasingh are three of the names under which the \"sphinx\" is known in Thailand. They are depicted as upright walking beings with the lower body of a lion or deer, and the upper body of a human. Often they are found as female-male pairs. Here, too, the sphinx serves a protective function. It also is enumerated among the mythological creatures that inhabit the ranges of the sacred mountain Himapan.\n\nThe revived Mannerist sphinx of the late 15th century is sometimes thought of as the \"French sphinx\". Her coiffed head is erect and she has the breasts of a young woman. Often she wears ear drops and pearls as ornaments. Her body is naturalistically rendered as a recumbent lioness. Such sphinxes were revived when the \"grottesche\" or \"grotesque\" decorations of the unearthed \"Domus Aurea\" of Nero were brought to light in late 15th-century Rome, and she was incorporated into the classical vocabulary of arabesque designs that spread throughout Europe in engravings during the 16th and 17th centuries. Sphinxes were included in the decoration of the \"loggia\" of the Vatican Palace by the workshop of Raphael (1515–20), which updated the vocabulary of the Roman \"grottesche\".\n\nThe first appearances of sphinxes in French art are in the School of Fontainebleau in the 1520s and 1530s and she continues into the Late Baroque style of the French Régence (1715–1723). From France, she spread throughout Europe, becoming a regular feature of the outdoors decorative sculpture of 18th-century palace gardens, as in the Upper Belvedere Palace in Vienna, Sanssouci Park in Potsdam, La Granja in Spain, Branicki Palace in Białystok, or the late Rococo examples in the grounds of the Portuguese Queluz National Palace (of perhaps the 1760s), with ruffs and clothed chests ending with a little cape.\n\nSphinxes are a feature of the neoclassical interior decorations of Robert Adam and his followers, returning closer to the undressed style of the \"grottesche\". They had an equal appeal to artists and designers of the Romanticism and subsequent Symbolism movements in the 19th century. Most of these sphinxes alluded to the Greek sphinx and the myth of Oedipus, rather than the Egyptian, although they may not have wings.\n\nThe sphinx image also has been adopted into Masonic architecture. Among the Egyptians, sphinxes were placed at the entrance of the temples to guard their mysteries, by warning those who penetrated within that they should conceal a knowledge of them from the uninitiated. Champollion said that the sphinx became successively the symbol of each of the gods. The placement of the sphinxes expressed the idea that all the gods were hidden from the people, and that the knowledge of them, guarded in the sanctuaries, was revealed to initiates only. As a Masonic emblem, the sphinx has been adopted in its Egyptian character as a symbol of mystery, and as such often is found as a decoration sculptured in front of Masonic temples, or engraved at the head of Masonic documents. It cannot, however, be properly called an ancient, recognized symbol of the order. Its introduction has been of comparatively recent date, and rather as a symbolic decoration than as a symbol of any particular dogma. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSimilar hybrid creatures\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984217", "title": "Tom Coburn", "text": "Tom Coburn\n\nThomas Allen Coburn (born March 14, 1948) is an American politician and physician. A member of the Republican Party, he was the junior United States Senator from Oklahoma.\n\nCoburn was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1994 as part of the Republican Revolution. He upheld his campaign pledge to serve no more than three consecutive terms and did not run for re-election in 2000. In 2004, he returned to political life with a successful run for the U.S. Senate. Coburn was re-elected to a second term in 2010 and pledged not to seek a third term in 2016. In January 2014, Coburn announced he would retire before the expiration of his final term. He submitted a letter of resignation to Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, effective at the end of the 113th Congress.\n\nCoburn is a fiscal and social conservative, known for his self-proclaimed global warming denial, opposition to deficit spending and pork barrel projects, and for his opposition to abortion. Described as \"the godfather of the modern conservative, austerity movement\", he supports term limits, gun rights and the death penalty and opposes same-sex marriage and embryonic stem cell research. Democrats have referred to him as \"Dr. No.\"\n\nAfter leaving Congress, Coburn worked with the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research on its efforts to reform the Food and Drug Administration, becoming a senior fellow of the institute in December 2016. Coburn also serves as a senior advisor to Citizens for Self-Governance, where he has been active in calling for a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution.\n\nCoburn was born in Casper, Wyoming, the son of Anita Joy (née Allen) and Orin Wesley Coburn. Coburn's father was an optician and founder of Coburn Optical Industries, and a named donor to O. W. Coburn School of Law at Oral Roberts University, dedicated in 1979 and closed in 1985.\n\nCoburn graduated with a B.S. in accounting from Oklahoma State University, where he was also a member of Sigma Nu fraternity. In 1968, he married Carolyn Denton, the 1967 Miss Oklahoma; their three daughters are Callie, Katie and Sarah, a leading operatic soprano. One of the Top Ten seniors in the School of Business, Coburn served as president of the College of Business Student Council.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1978, Coburn served as manufacturing manager at the Ophthalmic Division of Coburn Optical Industries in Colonial Heights, Virginia. Under his leadership, the Virginia division of Coburn Optical grew from 13 employees to more than 350 and captured 35 percent of the U.S. market.\n\nAfter recovering from an occurrence of malignant melanoma, Coburn pursued a medical degree and graduated from the University of Oklahoma Medical School with honors in 1983. He then opened Maternal & Family Practice in Muskogee, Oklahoma, and served as a deacon in a Southern Baptist Church. During his career in obstetrics, he has treated over 15,000 patients, delivered 4,000 babies and was subject to one malpractice lawsuit, which was dismissed without finding Coburn at fault. Coburn and his wife are members of First Baptist Church of Muskogee.\n\nIn November 2013, Coburn made public that he had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. In 2011, he had prostate cancer surgery while also surviving colon cancer and melanoma.\n\nA sterilization Coburn performed on a 20-year-old woman, Angela Plummer, in 1990 became what was called \"the most incendiary issue\" of his Senate campaign. Coburn performed the sterilization on the woman during an emergency surgery to treat a life-threatening ectopic pregnancy, removing her intact fallopian tube as well as the one damaged by the surgery. The woman sued Coburn, alleging that he did not have consent to sterilize her, while Coburn claimed he had her oral consent. The lawsuit was ultimately dismissed with no finding of liability on Coburn's part.\n\nThe state attorney general claimed that Coburn committed Medicaid fraud by not reporting the sterilization when he filed a claim for the emergency surgery. Medicaid did not reimburse doctors for sterilization procedures for patients under 21 and according to the attorney general, Coburn would not have been reimbursed at all had he not withheld this information. Coburn says since he did not file a claim for the sterilization, no fraud was committed. No charges were filed against Coburn for this claim.\n\nIn 1994, Coburn ran for the House of Representatives in Oklahoma's Democratic 2nd Congressional District, which was based in Muskogee and included 22 counties in northeastern Oklahoma. Coburn initially expected to face eight-term incumbent Mike Synar. However, Synar was defeated in a runoff for the Democratic nomination by a 71-year-old retired principal, Virgil Cooper. According to Coburn's 2003 book, \"Breach of Trust: How Washington Turns Outsiders Into Insiders\", Coburn and Cooper got along well, since both were opposed to the more liberal Synar. The general election was cordial, since both men knew that Synar would not return to Washington regardless of the outcome. Coburn won by a 52%–48% margin, becoming the first Republican to represent the district since 1921.\n\nCoburn was one of the most conservative members of the House. He supported \"reducing the size of the federal budget,\" wanted to make abortion illegal and supported the proposed television V-chip legislation.\n\nDespite representing a heavily Democratic district and President Bill Clinton's electoral dominance therein, Coburn was reelected in 1996 and 1998.\n\nIn the House, Coburn earned a reputation as a political maverick due to his frequent battles with House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Most of these stand-offs stemmed from his belief that the Republican caucus was moving toward the political center and away from the more conservative Contract With America policy proposals that had brought the Republicans into power in Congress in 1994 for the first time in 40 years.\n\nCoburn endorsed conservative activist and former diplomat Alan Keyes in the 2000 Republican presidential primaries. Coburn retired from Congress in 2001, fulfilling his pledge to serve no more than three terms in the House. His congressional district returned to the Democratic fold, as attorney Brad Carson defeated a Republican endorsed by Coburn. After leaving the House and returning to private medical practice, Coburn wrote \"Breach of Trust\", with ghostwriter John Hart, about his experiences in Congress. The book detailed Coburn's perspective on the internal Republican Party debates over the Contract With America and displayed his disdain for career politicians. Some of the figures he criticized (such as Gingrich) were already out of office at the time of the book's publishing, but others (such as former House Speaker Dennis Hastert) remained influential in Congress, which resulted in speculation that some congressional Republicans wanted no part of Coburn's return to politics.\n\nDuring his tenure in the House, Coburn wrote and passed far-reaching legislation. These include laws to expand seniors' health care options, to protect access to home health care in rural areas and to allow Americans to access cheaper medications from Canada and other nations. Coburn also wrote a law intended to prevent the spread of AIDS to infants. \"The Wall Street Journal\" said about the law, \"In 10 long years of AIDS politics and funding, this is actually the first legislation to pass in this country that will rescue babies.\" He also wrote a law to renew and reform federal AIDS care programs. In 2002, President George W. Bush chose Coburn to serve as co-chair of the President's Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS (PACHA).\n\nDuring his three terms in the House, Coburn also played an influential role in reforming welfare and other federal entitlement programs.\n\nAs a congressman in 1997, Coburn protested NBC's plan to air the R-rated Academy Award-winning Holocaust drama \"Schindler's List\" during prime time. Coburn stated that, in airing the movie without editing it for television, TV had been taken \"to an all-time low, with full-frontal nudity, violence and profanity.\" He also said the TV broadcast should outrage parents and decent-minded individuals everywhere. Coburn described the airing of \"Schindler's List\" on television as \"irresponsible sexual behavior. I cringe when I realize that there were children all across this nation watching this program.\"\n\nThis statement met with strong criticism, as the film deals mainly with the Holocaust. After heavy criticism, Coburn apologized \"to all those I have offended\" and clarified that he agreed with the movie being aired on television, but stated that it should have been on later in the evening. In apologizing, Coburn said that at that time of the evening there are still large numbers of children watching without parental supervision and stated that he stood by his message of protecting children from violence, but had expressed it poorly. He also said, \"My intentions were good, but I've obviously made an error in judgment in how I've gone about saying what I wanted to say.\"\n\nHe later wrote in \"Breach of Trust\" that he considered this one of the biggest mistakes in his life and that, while he still feels the material was unsuitable for an 8 PM television broadcast, he handled the situation poorly.\n\nAfter three years out of politics, Coburn announced his candidacy for the Senate seat being vacated by four-term incumbent Republican Don Nickles. Former Oklahoma City Mayor Kirk Humphreys (the favorite of the state and national Republican establishment) and Corporation Commissioner Bob Anthony joined the field before Coburn. However, Coburn won the primary by an unexpectedly large margin, taking 61% of the vote to Humphreys's 25%. In the general election, he faced Brad Carson, a Democrat who had succeeded him in the 2nd District and was giving up his seat after only two terms.\n\nIn the election, Coburn won by a margin of 53% to Carson's 42%. While Carson routed Coburn in the heavily Democratic 2nd District generally, Coburn swamped Carson in the Oklahoma City metropolitan area and the closer-in Tulsa suburbs. Coburn won the state's two largest counties, Tulsa and Oklahoma, by a combined 86,000 votes, more than half of his overall margin of 166,000 votes.\n\nCoburn's Senate voting record is as conservative as his House record.\n\nCoburn was re-elected in 2010. He received 90% of the vote in the Republican primary and 70% in the general election. While he originally planned to not seek a third term due to his self-imposed two term limit, on January 16, 2014 Coburn announced he would resign his office at the end of the year due to his declining health.\n\nOn April 29, 2014, Coburn introduced the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act of 2014 (S. 2270; 113th Congress) into the Senate and it passed on June 3, 2014.\n\nCoburn used the Senate hold privilege to prevent several bills from coming to the Senate floor. Coburn earned a reputation for his use of the procedural mechanism. In November 2009 Coburn drew attention for placing a hold on a veterans benefits bill known as the Veterans' Caregiver and Omnibus Health Benefits Act. Coburn also placed a hold on a bill intended to help end hostilities in Uganda by the Lord's Resistance Army.\n\nOn May 23, 2007, Coburn blocked two bills honoring the 100th birthday of Rachel Carson. Coburn called Carson's scientific work \"junk science,\" proclaiming that Carson's landmark book \"Silent Spring\" was \"the catalyst in the deadly worldwide stigmatization against insecticides, especially DDT.\"\n\nIn response to Coburn's holds, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid introduced the Advancing America's Priorities Act, , in July 2008. S. 3297 combined thirty-five bills which Coburn had blocked into what became Democrats called the \"Tomnibus\" bill. The bill included health care provisions, new penalties for child pornography, and several natural resources bills. The bill failed a cloture vote.\n\nCoburn opposed parts of the legislation creating the Lewis and Clark Mount Hood Wilderness Area, which would add protections to wildlands in Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. Coburn exercised a hold on the legislation in both March and November 2008, and decried the required $10 million for surveying and mapping as wasteful. The Mount Hood bill would have been the largest amount of land added to federal protection since 1984.\n\nIn March 2009, those wilderness areas became protected under the Omnibus Public Land Management Act, which passed the Senate 73-21.\n\nAccording to the \"Boston Globe\", Coburn initially blocked passage of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA), objecting to provisions in the bill that allow discrimination based on genetic information from embryos and fetuses. After the embryo loophole was closed, Coburn lifted his hold on the bill.\n\nCoburn had initially blocked passage of the LRA Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, which would help to disarm the Lord's Resistance Army, a political group accused of human rights abuses. On March 9, 2010 Coburn lifted his hold on the LRA bill freeing it to move to the Senate floor after reaching a compromise regarding the funding of the bill, and an eleven day protest outside of his office.\n\nCoburn is affiliated with a religious organization called The Family. Coburn previously lived in one of the Family's Washington, D.C. dormitories with then-Senator John Ensign, another Family member and longtime resident of the C Street Center who admitted he had an extramarital affair with a staffer in 2009. The announcement by Ensign of his infidelity brought public scrutiny of the Family and its connection to other high-ranking politicians, including Coburn.\n\nCoburn, together with senior members of the Family, attempted to intervene to end Ensign's affair in February 2008, before the affair became public, including by meeting with the husband of Ensign's mistress and encouraging Ensign to write a letter to his mistress breaking off the affair. Ensign was driven to Federal Express from C Street Center to post the letter, shortly after which Ensign called to tell his mistress to ignore it.\n\nCoburn refuses to speak about his involvement in Ensign's affair or his knowledge of the affair well before it became public, asserting legal privilege due to his separate statuses as a licensed physician in the State of Oklahoma and a deacon.\n\nIn October 2009, Coburn did make a statement to \"The New York Times\" about Ensign's affair and cover-up: \"John got trapped doing something really stupid and then made a lot of other mistakes afterward. Judgment gets impaired by arrogance and that's what's going on here.\"\n\nIn May 2011, the Senate Ethics Committee identified Coburn in their report on the ethics violations of Senator John Ensign. The report stated that Coburn knew about Ensign's extramarital affair and was involved in trying to negotiate a financial settlement to cover it up.\n\nCoburn was involved in the Bush Administration's struggle with Congress over whistleblower rights. In the case of \"Garcetti v. Ceballos\", the Supreme Court ruled that government employees who testify against their employers did not have protection from retaliation by their employers under the First Amendment of the Constitution. The free speech protections of the First Amendment have long been used to shield whistleblowers from retaliation.\n\nIn response to the Supreme Court decision, the House passed H.R. 985, the Whistleblower Protection Act of 2007. Bush, citing national security concerns, promised to veto the bill should it be enacted into law by Congress. The Senate's version of the Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 274) was approved by the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on June 13, 2007. However, it has yet to reach a vote by the Senate, as Coburn placed a hold on the bill; this effectively prevents passage of the bill, which has bipartisan support in the Senate.\n\nCoburn's website features a news item about United Nations whistleblower Mathieu Credo Koumoin, a former employee for the U.N. Development Program in West Africa, who has asked U.N. ethics chief Robert Benson for protection under the U.N.'s new whistleblower protection rules.\nThe site has a link to the \"United Nations Watch\" of the Republican Office of the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs' Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information and International Security, of which he is the ranking minority member. Coburn's website also features a tip line for potential whistleblowers on government waste and fraud.\n\nCoburn joined Congressmen Sue Myrick (R-NC), Trent Franks (R-AZ), John Shadegg (R-AZ), Paul Broun (R-GA) and Patrick McHenry (R-NC) in a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman on November 16, 2009, asking that the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) be investigated for excessive lobbying and failing to register as a lobbying organization. The request came in the wake of the publication of a book, \"Muslim Mafia\", the foreword of which had been penned by Myrick, that portrayed CAIR as a subversive organization allied with international terrorists.\n\nOn May 26, 2011 Coburn released his 73-page report, \"\", receiving immediate attention from such media outlets as \"The New York Times\", Fox News and MSNBC.\n\nCoburn was one of three senators who voted against the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act (STOCK Act). On February 3, 2012, Coburn released the following statement regarding the Act:\n\nCoburn was a member of the following committees:\n\nCoburn opposes abortion, with the exception of abortions necessary to save the life of the mother. In 2000 he sponsored a bill to prevent the Food and Drug Administration from developing, testing, or approving the abortifacient RU-486. On July 13, the bill failed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 182 to 187. On the issue, Coburn sparked controversy with his remark, \"I favor the death penalty for abortionists and other people who take life.\" He noted that his great-grandmother was raped by a sheriff, and in the Senate confirmation hearings concerning Samuel Alito, said his grandmother was a product of that rape.\n\nCoburn was one of the original authors of the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act upheld by the Supreme Court in \"Gonzales v. Carhart\". The act relied on an expansive view of the Constitution's Commerce Clause, as it applies to \"any physician who, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, knowingly performs a partial-birth abortion.\" The Act's reliance on such a broad reading of the Commerce Clause was criticized by Independence Institute scholar David Kopel and University of Tennessee law professor Glenn Reynolds, who noted that \"[u]nless a physician is operating a mobile abortion clinic on the Metroliner, it is not really possible to perform an abortion 'in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce.'\" When Coburn later called Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan \"ignorant\" due to her \"very expansive view\" of the Commerce Clause, his support for the Act was used by Kagan supporters who charged him with hypocrisy on the issue.\n\nOn September 14, 2005, during the confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominee John G. Roberts, Coburn began his opening statement with a critique of Beltway partisan politics while, according to news reports, \"choking back a sob.\" Coburn had earlier been completing a crossword puzzle during the hearings, and this fact was highlighted by \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" to ridicule Coburn's pathos. Coburn then began his questioning by discussing the various legal terms mentioned during the previous day's hearings. Proceeding to questions regarding both abortion and end-of-life issues, Coburn, who noted that during his tenure as an obstetrician he had delivered some 4,000 babies, asked Roberts whether the judge agreed with the proposition that \"the opposite of being dead is being alive.\"\n\nCoburn made several attempts in 2005 to combat pork barrel spending in the federal budget. The best-known of these was an amendment to the fiscal 2006 appropriations bill that funds transportation projects. Coburn's amendment would have transferred funding from the Bridge to Nowhere in Alaska to rebuild Louisiana's \"Twin Spans\" bridge, which was devastated by Hurricane Katrina. The amendment was defeated in the Senate, 82–14, after Ted Stevens, the senior senator from Alaska, threatened to resign his office if the amendment were passed. Coburn's actions did result in getting the funds made into a more politically feasible block grant to the State of Alaska, which can use the funds for the bridge or other projects. The renovations for the Elizabethtown Amtrak Station was cited by Coburn as an example of pork barrel spending in the stimulus bill.\n\nCoburn is also a member of the Fiscal Watch Team, a group of seven senators led by John McCain, whose stated goal is to combat \"wasteful government spending.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2006, Coburn and Senators Barack Obama, Thomas Carper and John McCain introduced the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006. The bill requires the full disclosure of all entities and organizations receiving federal funds beginning in fiscal year (FY) 2007 on a website maintained by the Office of Management and Budget. The bill was signed into law on September 26, 2006.\n\nCoburn and McCain noted that the practice of members of Congress adding earmarks has risen dramatically over the years, from 121 earmarks in 1987 to 15,268 earmarks in 2005, according to the Congressional Research Service.\n\nIn July 2007, Coburn criticized pork-barrel spending that Nebraska Senator Ben Nelson had inserted into the 2007 defense spending bill. Coburn said that the earmarks would benefit Nelson's son Patrick's employer with millions in federal dollars and that the situation violated terms of the Transparency Act, which was passed by the Senate but had not yet been voted on in the House. Nelson's spokesperson said the Senator did nothing wrong. At that time, newspapers in Nebraska and Oklahoma noted that Coburn failed to criticize very similar earmarks that benefited Oklahoma.\n\nIn 1997, Coburn introduced a bill called the HIV Prevention Act of 1997, which would have amended the Social Security Act. The bill would have required confidential notification of HIV exposure to the sexual partners of those diagnosed with HIV, along with counseling and testing. The bill was endorsed by the American Medical Association and had over 100 co-sponsors. Coburn also offered an amendment that would have prohibited insurance companies from discriminating against someone who was tested for HIV, regardless of the result and introduced a bill to expand AIDS coverage for those enrolled in Medicare. He was the primary House sponsor of the 2000 Ryan White CARE Act re-authorization that was signed into law by President Bill Clinton.\n\nIn 2010, Coburn called for a freeze on defense spending. The following year, along with Democratic Maryland Senator Ben Cardin, he introduced a bill to \"get rid of the most venerable big ethanol subsidy: the blenders tax credit.\" Coburn served on the Simpson-Bowles debt reduction commission in 2010 and was one of the only Republicans in Congress open to tax increases as a means of balancing the budget.\n\nIn 2011 Coburn broke with Americans for Tax Reform with an ethanol amendment that gathered 70 votes in the Senate and said that anti-tax activist Grover Norquist's influence was overstated and that in order to \"fix the country\" revenue increases were needed.\n\nIn 2012, Coburn identified less than $7 billion a year in possible defense savings and over half of these savings were to be through the elimination of military personnel involved in supply, transportation, and communications services.\n\nIn May 2013, after tornadoes ripped through his state, Coburn said that any new funding allocated for disaster relief need to be offset by cuts to other federal spending.\n\nCoburn was a fierce critic of the plan to attempt to defund the Affordable Care Act by shutting down the federal government, saying that the strategy was \"doomed to fail\" and that Ted Cruz and others who supported the plan had a \"short-term goal with lousy tactics\".\n\nRegarding the Second Amendment, Coburn believes that it \"recognizes the right of individual, law-abiding citizens to own and use firearms,\" and he opposes \"any and all efforts to mandate gun control on law-abiding citizens.\" On the Credit CARD Act of 2009, which aimed \"to establish fair and transparent practices relating to the extension of credit under an open end consumer credit plan and for other purposes,\" Coburn sponsored an amendment that would allow concealed carry of firearms in national parks. The Senate passed the amendment 67–29.\n\nCoburn placed a hold on final Senate consideration of a measure passed by the House in the wake of the Virginia Tech shootings to improve state performance in checking the federal watch list of gun buyers. However, after the Sandy Hook massacre in December 2012, Coburn (who had already announced he would not run for re-election) reversed himself and came out in support of universal background checks. Coburn partnered with Democratic members of the Senate such as Charles Schumer and Joe Manchin (to whose re-election campaign Coburn donated money ) to determine what a universal background check measure should look like. However, these talks ultimately broke down, and in April 2013, Coburn was one of 46 senators to vote against the amendment in its final form, defeating its passage.\n\nCoburn voted against the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in December 2009, and against the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.\n\nCoburn co-authored the Patients Choice Act of 2009 (S. 1099), a Republican plan for Health care reform in the United States, which in part 1) Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to convene an interagency coordinating committee to develop a national strategic plan for prevention. Provides for health promotion and disease prevention activities consistent with such plan. 2) Sets forth provisions governing the establishment and operation of state-based health care exchanges to facilitate the individual purchase of private health insurance and the creation of a market where private health plans compete for enrolles based on price and quality. 3) Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a refundable tax credit for qualified health care insurance coverage. 4) Sets forth programs to prevent Medicare fraud and abuse, including ending the use of social security numbers to identify Medicare beneficiaries. 5) Terminates the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.\n\nDuring the administration of President George W. Bush, Coburn spoke out against the threat by some Democrats to filibuster nominations to judicial and Executive Branch positions. He took the position that no presidential nomination should ever be filibustered, in light of the wording of the U.S. Constitution. Coburn said, \"There is a defined charge to the president and the Senate on advice and consent.\"\n\nIn May 2009, Coburn was the only Senator to vote against confirmation of Gil Kerlikowske as the Director of the National Drug Control Policy.\n\nCoburn opposes same-sex marriage. In 2006, he voted in support of a proposed constitutional amendment to ban it.\n\nOn May 24, 2007, the US Senate voted 80–14 to fund the war in Iraq, which included U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007. Coburn voted nay. On October 1, 2007, the Senate voted 92–3 to fund the war in Iraq. Coburn voted nay. In February 2008, Coburn said, \"I will tell you personally that I think it was probably a mistake going to Iraq.\"\n\nOn December 15, 2014, Coburn stalled the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act aimed at stemming veteran suicides. The bill would require a report on successful veteran suicide prevention programs and allow the VA to pay incentives to hire psychiatrists. Paul Rieckhoff, CEO of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, said that despite his reputation as a budget hawk, Coburn should have recognized that the $22 million cost of the bill is worth the lives it would have saved. \"It's a shame that after two decades of service in Washington, Sen. Coburn will always be remembered for this final, misguided attack on veterans nationwide,\" he said. \"If it takes 90 days for the new Congress to re-pass this bill, the statistics tell us another 1,980 vets will have died by suicide. That should be a heavy burden on the conscience of Sen. Coburn and this Congress.\" Speaking out against the legislation, Coburn said \"I object, not because I don't want to save suicides, but because I don't think this bill will do the first thing to change what's happening,\" arguing the bill\" \"throws money and doesn't solve the real problem\"\n\nAfter retiring from the U.S. Senate, Coburn joined Citizens for Self-Governance as a senior advisor to the group's Convention of States project, which seeks to convene a convention to propose amendments to the United States Constitution. In 2017, he authored a book on the subject titled \"Smashing the DC Monopoly: Using Article V to Restore Freedom and Stop Runaway Government\".\n\nSince 2015, Coburn has been affiliated with the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, consulting on the Institute's Project FDA, an effort to promote faster drug approval processes. Since 2016, he has been a Manhattan Institute senior fellow.\n\nIn 2013, Coburn received the U.S. Senator John Heinz Award for Greatest Public Service by an Elected or Appointed Official, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards.\n\nIn spite of their ideological differences, Coburn is a friend of President Barack Obama. They became friends in 2005 when they both arrived in the Senate at the same time. They worked together on political ethics reform legislation, to set up an online federal spending database and to crack down on no-bid contracting at the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. In April 2011, Coburn spoke to Bloomberg TV about Obama, saying, \"I love the man. I think he's a neat man. I don't want him to be president, but I still love him. He is our President. He's my President. And I disagree with him adamantly on 95% of the issues, but that doesn't mean I can't have a great relationship. And that's a model people ought to follow.\"\n\nBefore the 2009 BCS game between the Oklahoma Sooners and the Florida Gators, Coburn made a bet over the outcome of the game with Florida Senator Bill Nelson—the loser had to serenade the winner with a song. The Gators defeated the Sooners and Coburn sang Elton John's \"Rocket Man\" to Nelson, who had once flown into space.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18304820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18304820", "title": "Tyushtya", "text": "Tyushtya\n\nTyushtya () (IV c.) - is a Mokshan epic hero character based on Moksha legends survived mostly among Mokshas living in on the right bank of Volga and in Siberia. He serves as a symbol of Moksha's struggle with Russian expansion. Tyushtya is also regarded as the great leader of the Moksha, Erzya and Meschera alliance.\n\nIn the Mastorava epic, Tyushtya is a peasant elected by people to be the king and leader of Moksha, Erzya and Meschera clans alliance and the warlord of the allied army. During his rule, Mokshaland stretched from Volga to Dnieper and from the Oka to the Black Sea.\n\nIn Mordvin mythology, Tyushtya is a Moon god, son of the Thunder god and the mortal girl Litova. His age changes every month, following the phases of the Moon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30821572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30821572", "title": "Vincent Gookin (surveyor-general)", "text": "Vincent Gookin (surveyor-general)\n\nVincent Gookin (1616?–1659) was an English surveyor-general of Ireland. He represented Irish constituencies in the Protectorate parliaments. In 1655 he published two pamphlets deprecating enforcement of orders for transplantation of Irish to Connaught. He was a man of strong religious convictions, and an ardent republican.\n\nGookin was the eldest son of Sir Vincent Gookin (c. 1594-1638) and his first wife Mary Wood. Some years after the death of his father, in 1648, he appears to have disposed of his Gloucestershire property to a Dr. Samuel Bave, and to have migrated to Ireland, where he continued to reside during the remainder of his life. Although a firm believer in the \"plantation policy\" as a means of reducing Ireland to \"civility and good government\", he was one of the few colonists who really seem to have had the interest of Ireland at heart. He is chiefly known to us as the author of the remarkable pamphlet, \"The Great Case of Transplantation discussed; or certain Considerations, wherein the many great inconveniences in Transplanting the Natives of Ireland generally out of the three Provinces of Leinster, Ulster, and Munster into the Province of Connaught are shown, humbly tendered to every individual Member of Parliament by a Well-wisher to the good of the Commonwealth of England\", 4to, London, for J. C., 1655.\n\nIn this pamphlet Gookin endeavoured to prove that if not indeed impossible, it was certainly contrary to \"religion, profit, and safety\", to strictly enforce the orders and instructions for the removal of all the Irish natives into Connaught, based upon the act for the satisfaction of the adventurers of 26 September 1653. \n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century the pamphlet was thought to be very rare. Dunlop wrote that it was not mentioned by Ware in his \"Writers of Ireland\". He mentions a copy (perhaps unique) in the Haliday collection in the Royal Irish Academy. John Patrick Prendergast, who first called attention to it, gave a fairly complete abstract of it in his \"Cromwellian Settlement\". Though exceedingly temperate in its tone, it immediately elicited a sharp rejoinder from Colonel Richard Lawrence, a prominent member of the committee of transplantation. Gookin replied in \"The Author and Case of Transplanting the Irish into Connaught vindicated from the unjust aspersions of Col. R. Lawrence\", London, 1655. He had been charged with being a degenerate Englishman, and with having been corrupted by the Irish. He denied the charge, saying that he was elected by the English of Kinsale and Bandon to the Barebones Parliament, and his constituents had shown their regard for him by offering to pay his expenses to England.\n\nThe controversy forms an episode in the great struggle, culminating in the appointment of Henry Cromwell as chief governor of Ireland in September 1655, for the substitution of a settled civil government in place of the rule of a clique of officers. For Henry Cromwell, even perhaps more than for Oliver Cromwell, Gookin felt a profound admiration, and seems to have been the author of the \"Ancient Protestants' Petition\" in defence of the former against the attacks of the military clique. There is an interesting account of the presentation of this petition to Cromwell, in a letter by Gookin to Henry Cromwell, in Lansdowne MS. No. 822, f. 26-7, dated 21 October 1656. The gist of the petition, which, for prudential reasons, was not published, may be gathered from a subsequent letter by Gookin to the Protector on 22 Nov. 1656.\n\nGookin's views on this and other topics of historical importance are interesting and intelligent. Speaking in 1657 of the Decimating Bill at that time before parliament, he says: \"In my opinion those that speak against the bill have much to say in point of moral justice and prudence; but that which makes me fear the passing of the bill is that thereby his highness' government will be more founded in force and more removed from that natural foundation which the people in parliament are desirous to give him\".\n\nOn 7 July 1656 Gookin was appointed, along with Sir William Petty and Miles Symner, to the Down Survey, with the aim of apportioning to the soldiers the lands allotted to them in payment of their arrears. It appears from a letter to Henry Cromwell on 14 April 1657, petitioning for an abatement of rent on lands granted him in 1650 \"for favour\", that he did not turn any of his offices to his own personal advantage. He represented Kinsale and Bandon under the Commonwealth, except in 1659, when, for party purposes, he surrendered his seat to Sir William Petty, and successfully contested Cork and Youghal against Lord Broghill. He died the same year intestate.\n\nGookin married Mary Salmon of Dublin, by whom he had two sons and a daughter. His younger brother, Robert Gookin (died 1667), of Courtmacsherry, served as a captain in the English Parliamentary army in Ireland, and received grants of land in Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "20130028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20130028", "title": "Werner Krieglstein", "text": "Werner Krieglstein\n\nWerner Josef Krieglstein (born October 31, 1941), a Fulbright Scholar and University of Chicago fellow, is an award winning and internationally recognized scholar, director and actor. Krieglstein is the founder of a neo-Nietzschean philosophical school called Transcendental Perspectivism. Krieglstein's \"philosophy of compassion\" has been the subject of symposium lectures at many prominent conferences including the UNESCO section of the World Congress of Philosophy conference in Seoul Korea (August, 2008), the ISAIL \"Fields of Conflict-Fields of Wisdom\": 4th International Congress in Wuerzburg, Germany (May, 2008), the meeting of the American Philosophical Association in Washington D.C. (Symposium Chair: Sept. 2006), and the ISUD Fourth World Conference of the International Society for Universal Dialogue (Summer, 2001), among many others.\n\nKrieglstein was born in 1941 in Blatnice, (near Plzeň), at the time an annexed part of Nazi Germany's Sudetenland (present-day Blatnice, Czech Republic). Following the post-war Expulsion of the Germans from Czechoslovakia, he relocated near Frankfurt, Germany. In the Sixties, Krieglstein was a student at the Frankfurt School in Germany, under the professorship of Theodor W. Adorno. In his first book, Krieglstein credits the roots of his passion for the transformative aspects of philosophy to the tutelage of Adorno. As a German Jew, Adorno returned to Germany almost immediately after WWII ended with the goal of challenging the indoctrination many university students had received in Hitler's youth education programs. Before moving to the United States, Krieglstein also studied at the Free University of Berlin. Following his studies in Germany, Krieglstein pursued his doctorate at the University of Chicago as a Fulbright Scholar and University Fellow.\n\nKrieglstein has held teaching positions at the University of Helsinki, Finland, and Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo. He currently is professor emeritus of philosophy and religious studies at the College of DuPage, where he was awarded the Most Outstanding Teacher Award in 2003 and the Distinguished Regional Humanities Educator Award from the Community College Humanities Association in 2008. In addition to his role as professor, Krieglstein is a course director at the Interuniversity Center in Dubrovnik, Croatia, and a board member of the International Society for Universal Dialogue. His philosophy of compassion is also finding an audience within the education reform movement, with symposium lectures at AEPL \"Reclaiming the Wisdom Tradition for Education\" conference in Northern California (May, 2008), the NISOD International Conference on Teaching and Leadership Excellence in Austin, TX (May, 2007), and the CCHA Creating Communities Conference hosted by the University of Chicago (Nov, 2006).\n\nWhile at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, Krieglstein rose to prominence in theater when he was appointed as director of the avant-garde theater, Die Neue Bühne, at the Goethe University. While writing for the theater's paper, he interviewed members of The Living Theater including Jerzy Grotowski, and was fortunate enough to study mime under Marceau student Jeanne Winkler. An ISAIL biography notes that \"his black light production of Kafka's \"The Metamorphosis\" was performed over two hundred times at both European and American festivals.\" After emigrating to the US and while teaching at Western Michigan University in 1976, he founded and directed a small rural theater company in Lawrence, Michigan known as the Whole Arts Theater, which later moved to Kalamazoo. Michigan's official tourism site describing Krieglstein's founding of the Whole Art Theater. More recently, Krieglstein has shifted his acting focus to film. In the past few years, he has worked on several independent films including 'Urban Ground Squirrels' by Wiggle Puppy Productions, Chicago (Mark Krieglstein, 2002) and the internationally known 'Light Denied' by Delos Films, Warsaw (Paweł Kuczyński, 2008), along with a few smaller films.\n\nKrieglstein is married to Maryann Krieglstein. After attaining his PhD, the two lived in a few places around the world including Finland and Morocco before settling down on an organic farm in Lawrence, Michigan. While farming, he continued to teach and pursue acting in nearby Kalamazoo. In 1990, Krieglstein moved with his family to Glen Ellyn, Illinois, home to the College of DuPage where he would begin his almost 20 year professorship. Together, Maryann and Werner have five sons and one grandson: Robin (07/01/71), married to Suruchi have a son named Milan (03/14/09); Mark (02/25/75); Daniel (03/31/79), married to Andrea Trocchio; Thomas (12/05/80); and Michael (09/02/84).\n\nTranscendental perspectivism is a hybrid philosophy blending Friedrich Nietzsche's perspectivism and the utopian ideals of the transcendentalist movement. Transcendental perspectivism challenges Nietzsche's claim that there is no absolute truths while fully accepting his observation that all truth can only be known in the context of one's perception. This is accomplished through an appreciation of the emotional relationship between two perceptions (the \"perceiver\" and the \"other\"). In the simplest of terms, a transcendental truth can only be known when two individuals come to agree on the truth by either force or cooperation, thus working together to build a shared reality.\n\n\n\n"}
