{"id": "765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765", "title": "Abortion", "text": "Abortion\n\nAbortion is the ending of pregnancy due to removing an embryo or fetus before it can survive outside the uterus. An abortion that occurs spontaneously is also known as a miscarriage. When deliberate steps are taken to end a pregnancy, it is called an induced abortion, or less frequently an \"induced miscarriage\". The word \"abortion\" is often used to mean only induced abortions. A similar procedure after the fetus could potentially survive outside the womb is known as a \"late termination of pregnancy\" or less accurately as a \"late term abortion\".\nWhen allowed by law, abortion in the developed world is one of the safest procedures in medicine. Modern methods use medication or surgery for abortions. The drug mifepristone in combination with prostaglandin appears to be as safe and effective as surgery during the first and second trimester of pregnancy. The most common surgical technique involves dilating the cervix and using a suction device. Birth control, such as the pill or intrauterine devices, can be used immediately following abortion. When performed legally and safely, induced abortions do not increase the risk of long-term mental or physical problems. In contrast, unsafe abortions (those performed by unskilled individuals, with hazardous equipment, or in unsanitary facilities) cause 47,000 deaths and 5 million hospital admissions each year. The World Health Organization recommends safe and legal abortions be available to all women.\nAround 56 million abortions are performed each year in the world, with about 45% done unsafely. Abortion rates changed little between 2003 and 2008, before which they decreased for at least two decades as access to family planning and birth control increased. , 40% of the world's women had access to legal abortions without limits as to reason. Countries that permit abortions have different limits on how late in pregnancy abortion is allowed.\nHistorically, abortions have been attempted using herbal medicines, sharp tools, forceful massage, or through other traditional methods. Abortion laws and cultural or religious views of abortions are different around the world. In some areas abortion is legal only in specific cases such as rape, problems with the fetus, poverty, risk to a woman's health, or incest. In many places there is much debate over the moral, ethical, and legal issues of abortion. Those who oppose abortion often maintain that an embryo or fetus is a human with a right to life, and so they may compare abortion to murder. Those who favor the legality of abortion often hold that a woman has a right to make decisions about her own body. Others favor legal and accessible abortion as a public health measure.\n\nAn induced abortion may be classified as \"therapeutic\" (done in response to a health condition of the women or fetus) or \"elective\" (chosen for other reasons).\n\nApproximately 205 million pregnancies occur each year worldwide. Over a third are unintended and about a fifth end in induced abortion. Most abortions result from unintended pregnancies. In the United Kingdom, 1 to 2% of abortions are done due to genetic problems in the fetus. A pregnancy can be intentionally aborted in several ways. The manner selected often depends upon the gestational age of the embryo or fetus, which increases in size as the pregnancy progresses. Specific procedures may also be selected due to legality, regional availability, and doctor or a woman's personal preference.\n\nReasons for procuring induced abortions are typically characterized as either therapeutic or elective. An abortion is medically referred to as a therapeutic abortion when it is performed to save the life of the pregnant woman; to prevent harm to the woman's physical or mental health; to terminate a pregnancy where indications are that the child will have a significantly increased chance of mortality or morbidity; or to selectively reduce the number of fetuses to lessen health risks associated with multiple pregnancy. An abortion is referred to as an elective or voluntary abortion when it is performed at the request of the woman for non-medical reasons. Confusion sometimes arises over the term \"elective\" because \"elective surgery\" generally refers to all scheduled surgery, whether medically necessary or not.\n\nSpontaneous abortion, also known as miscarriage, is the unintentional expulsion of an embryo or fetus before the 24th week of gestation. A pregnancy that ends before 37 weeks of gestation resulting in a live-born infant is known as a \"premature birth\" or a \"preterm birth\". When a fetus dies in utero after viability, or during delivery, it is usually termed \"stillborn\". Premature births and stillbirths are generally not considered to be miscarriages although usage of these terms can sometimes overlap.\n\nOnly 30% to 50% of conceptions progress past the first trimester. The vast majority of those that do not progress are lost before the woman is aware of the conception, and many pregnancies are lost before medical practitioners can detect an embryo. Between 15% and 30% of known pregnancies end in clinically apparent miscarriage, depending upon the age and health of the pregnant woman. 80% of these spontaneous abortions happen in the first trimester.\n\nThe most common cause of spontaneous abortion during the first trimester is chromosomal abnormalities of the embryo or fetus, accounting for at least 50% of sampled early pregnancy losses. Other causes include vascular disease (such as lupus), diabetes, other hormonal problems, infection, and abnormalities of the uterus. Advancing maternal age and a woman's history of previous spontaneous abortions are the two leading factors associated with a greater risk of spontaneous abortion. A spontaneous abortion can also be caused by accidental trauma; intentional trauma or stress to cause miscarriage is considered induced abortion or feticide.\n\nMedical abortions are those induced by abortifacient pharmaceuticals. Medical abortion became an alternative method of abortion with the availability of prostaglandin analogs in the 1970s and the antiprogestogen mifepristone (also known as RU-486) in the 1980s.\n\nThe most common early first-trimester medical abortion regimens use mifepristone in combination with a prostaglandin analog (misoprostol or gemeprost) up to 9 weeks gestational age, methotrexate in combination with a prostaglandin analog up to 7 weeks gestation, or a prostaglandin analog alone. Mifepristone–misoprostol combination regimens work faster and are more effective at later gestational ages than methotrexate–misoprostol combination regimens, and combination regimens are more effective than misoprostol alone. This regime is effective in the second trimester. Medical abortion regiments involving mifepristone followed by misoprostol in the cheek between 24 and 48 hours later are effective when performed before 63 days' gestation.\n\nIn very early abortions, up to 7 weeks gestation, medical abortion using a mifepristone–misoprostol combination regimen is considered to be more effective than surgical abortion (vacuum aspiration), especially when clinical practice does not include detailed inspection of aspirated tissue. Early medical abortion regimens using mifepristone, followed 24–48 hours later by buccal or vaginal misoprostol are 98% effective up to 9 weeks gestational age. If medical abortion fails, surgical abortion must be used to complete the procedure.\n\nEarly medical abortions account for the majority of abortions before 9 weeks gestation in Britain, France, Switzerland, and the Nordic countries. In the United States, the percentage of early medical abortions is around 30% .\n\nMedical abortion regimens using mifepristone in combination with a prostaglandin analog are the most common methods used for second-trimester abortions in Canada, most of Europe, China and India, in contrast to the United States where 96% of second-trimester abortions are performed surgically by dilation and evacuation.\n\nUp to 15 weeks' gestation, suction-aspiration or vacuum aspiration are the most common surgical methods of induced abortion. \"Manual vacuum aspiration\" (MVA) consists of removing the fetus or embryo, placenta, and membranes by suction using a manual syringe, while \"electric vacuum aspiration\" (EVA) uses an electric pump. These techniques differ in the mechanism used to apply suction, in how early in pregnancy they can be used, and in whether cervical dilation is necessary.\n\nMVA, also known as \"mini-suction\" and \"menstrual extraction\", can be used in very early pregnancy, and does not require cervical dilation. Dilation and curettage (D&C), the second most common method of surgical abortion, is a standard gynecological procedure performed for a variety of reasons, including examination of the uterine lining for possible malignancy, investigation of abnormal bleeding, and abortion. Curettage refers to cleaning the walls of the uterus with a curette. The World Health Organization recommends this procedure, also called \"sharp curettage,\" only when MVA is unavailable.\n\nFrom the 15th week of gestation until approximately the 26th, other techniques must be used. Dilation and evacuation (D&E) consists of opening the cervix of the uterus and emptying it using surgical instruments and suction. After the 16th week of gestation, abortions can also be induced by intact dilation and extraction (IDX) (also called intrauterine cranial decompression), which requires surgical decompression of the fetus's head before evacuation. IDX is sometimes called \"partial-birth abortion\", which has been federally banned in the United States.\n\nIn the third trimester of pregnancy, induced abortion may be performed surgically by intact dilation and extraction or by hysterotomy. Hysterotomy abortion is a procedure similar to a caesarean section and is performed under general anesthesia. It requires a smaller incision than a caesarean section and is used during later stages of pregnancy.\n\nFirst-trimester procedures can generally be performed using local anesthesia, while second-trimester methods may require deep sedation or general anesthesia.\n\nIn places lacking the necessary medical skill for dilation and extraction, or where preferred by practitioners, an abortion can be induced by first inducing labor and then inducing fetal demise if necessary. This is sometimes called \"induced miscarriage\". This procedure may be performed from 13 weeks gestation to the third trimester. Although it is very uncommon in the United States, more than 80% of induced abortions throughout the second trimester are labor induced abortions in Sweden and other nearby countries.\n\nOnly limited data are available comparing this method with dilation and extraction. Unlike D&E, labor induced abortions after 18 weeks may be complicated by the occurrence of brief fetal survival, which may be legally characterized as live birth. For this reason, labor induced abortion is legally risky in the U.S.\n\nHistorically, a number of herbs reputed to possess abortifacient properties have been used in folk medicine. Among these are: tansy, pennyroyal, black cohosh, and the now-extinct silphium.\n\nHowever, modern users of these plants often lack knowledge of the proper use and dosage. The historian of medicine John Riddle has spoken of the \"broken chain of knowledge,\"\nand historian of science Ann Hibner Koblitz has written,\n\nFor example, in 1978 one woman in Colorado died and another was seriously injured when they attempted to procure an abortion by taking pennyroyal oil. \nBecause the indiscriminant use of herbs as abortifacients can cause serious—even lethal—side effects, such as multiple organ failure, such use is not recommended by physicians.\n\nAbortion is sometimes attempted by causing trauma to the abdomen. The degree of force, if severe, can cause serious internal injuries without necessarily succeeding in inducing miscarriage. In Southeast Asia, there is an ancient tradition of attempting abortion through forceful abdominal massage. One of the bas reliefs decorating the temple of Angkor Wat in Cambodia depicts a demon performing such an abortion upon a woman who has been sent to the underworld.\n\nReported methods of unsafe, self-induced abortion include misuse of misoprostol, and insertion of non-surgical implements such as knitting needles and clothes hangers into the uterus. These and other methods to terminate pregnancy may be called \"induced miscarriage\". Such methods are rarely used in countries where surgical abortion is legal and available.\nThe health risks of abortion depend principally upon whether the procedure is performed safely or unsafely. The World Health Organization defines unsafe abortions as those performed by unskilled individuals, with hazardous equipment, or in unsanitary facilities. Legal abortions performed in the developed world are among the safest procedures in medicine. In the US, the risk of maternal death from abortion is 0.7 per 100,000 procedures, making abortion about 13 times safer for women than childbirth (8.8 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births). In the United States from 2000 to 2009, abortion had a lower mortality rate than plastic surgery. The risk of abortion-related mortality increases with gestational age, but remains lower than that of childbirth through at least 21 weeks' gestation. Outpatient abortion is as safe and effective from 64 to 70 days' gestation as it is from 57 to 63 days. Medical abortion is safe and effective for pregnancies earlier than 6 weeks' gestation.\n\nVacuum aspiration in the first trimester is the safest method of surgical abortion, and can be performed in a primary care office, abortion clinic, or hospital. Complications, which are rare, can include uterine perforation, pelvic infection, and retained products of conception requiring a second procedure to evacuate. Infections account for one-third of abortion-related deaths in the United States. The rate of complications of vacuum aspiration abortion in the first trimester is similar regardless of whether the procedure is performed in a hospital, surgical center, or office. Preventive antibiotics (such as doxycycline or metronidazole) are typically given before elective abortion, as they are believed to substantially reduce the risk of postoperative uterine infection. The rate of failed procedures does not appear to vary significantly depending on whether the abortion is performed by a doctor or a mid-level practitioner. Complications after second-trimester abortion are similar to those after first-trimester abortion, and depend somewhat on the method chosen. Second-trimester abortions are generally well-tolerated.\n\nThere is little difference in terms of safety and efficacy between medical abortion using a combined regimen of mifepristone and misoprostol and surgical abortion (vacuum aspiration) in early first trimester abortions up to 9 weeks gestation. Medical abortion using the prostaglandin analog misoprostol alone is less effective and more painful than medical abortion using a combined regimen of mifepristone and misoprostol or surgical abortion.\n\nSome purported risks of abortion are promoted primarily by anti-abortion groups,\nbut lack scientific support. For example, the question of a link between induced abortion and breast cancer has been investigated extensively. Major medical and scientific bodies (including the World Health Organization, National Cancer Institute, American Cancer Society, Royal College of OBGYN and American Congress of OBGYN) have concluded that abortion does not cause breast cancer.\n\nIn the past even illegality has not automatically meant that the abortions were unsafe. Referring to the U.S., historian Linda Gordon states: \"In fact, illegal abortions in this country have an impressive safety record.\" According to Rickie Solinger,\n\nAuthors Jerome Bates and Edward Zawadzki describe the case of an illegal abortionist in the eastern U.S. in the early 20th century who was proud of having successfully completed 13,844 abortions without any fatality.\nIn 1870s New York City the famous abortionist/midwife Madame Restell (Anna Trow Lohman) appears to have lost very few women among her more than 100,000 patients—a lower mortality rate than the childbirth mortality rate at the time. In 1936 the prominent professor of obstetrics and gynecology Frederick J. Taussig wrote that a cause of increasing mortality during the years of illegality in the U.S. was that\nCurrent evidence finds no relationship between most induced abortions and mental-health problems other than those expected for any unwanted pregnancy. A report by the American Psychological Association concluded that a woman's first abortion is not a threat to mental health when carried out in the first trimester, with such women no more likely to have mental-health problems than those carrying an unwanted pregnancy to term; the mental-health outcome of a woman's second or greater abortion is less certain. Some older reviews concluded that abortion was associated with an increased risk of psychological problems; however, they did not use an appropriate control group.\n\nAlthough some studies show negative mental-health outcomes in women who choose abortions after the first trimester because of fetal abnormalities, more rigorous research would be needed to show this conclusively. Some proposed negative psychological effects of abortion have been referred to by anti-abortion advocates as a separate condition called \"post-abortion syndrome\", but this is not recognized by medical or psychological professionals in the United States.\n\nWomen seeking to terminate their pregnancies sometimes resort to unsafe methods, particularly when access to legal abortion is restricted. They may attempt to self-abort or rely on another person who does not have proper medical training or access to proper facilities. This has a tendency to lead to severe complications, such as incomplete abortion, sepsis, hemorrhage, and damage to internal organs.\n\nUnsafe abortions are a major cause of injury and death among women worldwide. Although data are imprecise, it is estimated that approximately 20 million unsafe abortions are performed annually, with 97% taking place in developing countries. Unsafe abortions are believed to result in millions of injuries. Estimates of deaths vary according to methodology, and have ranged from 37,000 to 70,000 in the past decade; deaths from unsafe abortion account for around 13% of all maternal deaths. The World Health Organization believes that mortality has fallen since the 1990s. To reduce the number of unsafe abortions, public health organizations have generally advocated emphasizing the legalization of abortion, training of medical personnel, and ensuring access to reproductive-health services. In response, opponents of abortion point out that abortion bans in no way affect prenatal care for women who choose to carry their fetus to term. The Dublin Declaration on Maternal Health, signed in 2012, notes, \"the prohibition of abortion does not affect, in any way, the availability of optimal care to pregnant women.\"\n\nA major factor in whether abortions are performed safely or not is the legal standing of abortion. Countries with restrictive abortion laws have higher rates of unsafe abortion and similar overall abortion rates compared to those where abortion is legal and available. For example, the 1996 legalization of abortion in South Africa had an immediate positive impact on the frequency of abortion-related complications, with abortion-related deaths dropping by more than 90%. Similar reductions in maternal mortality have been observed after other countries have liberalized their abortion laws, such as Romania and Nepal. A 2011 study concluded that in the United States, some state-level anti-abortion laws are correlated with lower rates of abortion in that state. The analysis, however, did not take into account travel to other states without such laws to obtain an abortion. In addition, a lack of access to effective contraception contributes to unsafe abortion. It has been estimated that the incidence of unsafe abortion could be reduced by up to 75% (from 20 million to 5 million annually) if modern family planning and maternal health services were readily available globally. Rates of such abortions may be difficult to measure because they can be reported variously as miscarriage, \"induced miscarriage\", \"menstrual regulation\", \"mini-abortion\", and \"regulation of a delayed/suspended menstruation\".\n\nForty percent of the world's women are able to access therapeutic and elective abortions within gestational limits, while an additional 35 percent have access to legal abortion if they meet certain physical, mental, or socioeconomic criteria. While maternal mortality seldom results from safe abortions, unsafe abortions result in 70,000 deaths and 5 million disabilities per year. Complications of unsafe abortion account for approximately an eighth of maternal mortalities worldwide, though this varies by region. Secondary infertility caused by an unsafe abortion affects an estimated 24 million women. The rate of unsafe abortions has increased from 44% to 49% between 1995 and 2008. Health education, access to family planning, and improvements in health care during and after abortion have been proposed to address this phenomenon.\n\nAlthough it is very uncommon, women undergoing surgical abortion after 18 weeks gestation sometimes give birth to a fetus that may survive briefly. Longer term survival is possible after 22 weeks.\n\nIf medical staff observe signs of life, they may be required to provide care: emergency medical care if the child has a good chance of survival and palliative care if not. Induced fetal demise before termination of pregnancy after 20–21 weeks gestation is recommended to avoid this.\n\nDeath following live birth caused by abortion is given the ; data are identified as either fetus or newborn. Between 1999 and 2013, in the U.S., the CDC recorded 531 such deaths for newborns, approximately 4 per 100,000 abortions.\n\nThere are two commonly used methods of measuring the incidence of abortion:\n\nIn many places, where abortion is illegal or carries a heavy social stigma, medical reporting of abortion is not reliable. For this reason, estimates of the incidence of abortion must be made without determining certainty related to standard error.\n\nThe number of abortions performed worldwide seems to have remained stable in recent years, with 41.6 million having been performed in 2003 and 43.8 million having been performed in 2008. The abortion rate worldwide was 28 per 1000 women, though it was 24 per 1000 women for developed countries and 29 per 1000 women for developing countries. The same 2012 study indicated that in 2008, the estimated abortion percentage of known pregnancies was at 21% worldwide, with 26% in developed countries and 20% in developing countries.\n\nOn average, the incidence of abortion is similar in countries with restrictive abortion laws and those with more liberal access to abortion. However, restrictive abortion laws are associated with increases in the percentage of abortions performed unsafely. The unsafe abortion rate in developing countries is partly attributable to lack of access to modern contraceptives; according to the Guttmacher Institute, providing access to contraceptives would result in about 14.5 million fewer unsafe abortions and 38,000 fewer deaths from unsafe abortion annually worldwide.\n\nThe rate of legal, induced abortion varies extensively worldwide. According to the report of employees of Guttmacher Institute it ranged from 7 per 1000 women (Germany and Switzerland) to 30 per 1000 women (Estonia) in countries with complete statistics in 2008. The proportion of pregnancies that ended in induced abortion ranged from about 10% (Israel, the Netherlands and Switzerland) to 30% (Estonia) in the same group, though it might be as high as 36% in Hungary and Romania, whose statistics were deemed incomplete.\n\nThe abortion rate may also be expressed as the average number of abortions a woman has during her reproductive years; this is referred to as \"total abortion rate\" (TAR).\n\nAbortion rates also vary depending on the stage of pregnancy and the method practiced. In 2003, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that 26% of reported legal induced abortions in the United States were known to have been obtained at less than 6 weeks' gestation, 18% at 7 weeks, 15% at 8 weeks, 18% at 9 through 10 weeks, 9.7% at 11 through 12 weeks, 6.2% at 13 through 15 weeks, 4.1% at 16 through 20 weeks and 1.4% at more than 21 weeks. 90.9% of these were classified as having been done by \"curettage\" (suction-aspiration, dilation and curettage, dilation and evacuation), 7.7% by \"medical\" means (mifepristone), 0.4% by \"intrauterine instillation\" (saline or prostaglandin), and 1.0% by \"other\" (including hysterotomy and hysterectomy). According to the CDC, due to data collection difficulties the data must be viewed as tentative and some fetal deaths reported beyond 20 weeks may be natural deaths erroneously classified as abortions if the removal of the dead fetus is accomplished by the same procedure as an induced abortion.\n\nThe Guttmacher Institute estimated there were 2,200 intact dilation and extraction procedures in the US during 2000; this accounts for 0.17% of the total number of abortions performed that year. Similarly, in England and Wales in 2006, 89% of terminations occurred at or under 12 weeks, 9% between 13 and 19 weeks, and 1.5% at or over 20 weeks. 64% of those reported were by vacuum aspiration, 6% by D&E, and 30% were medical. There are more second trimester abortions in developing countries such as China, India and Vietnam than in developed countries.\n\nThe reasons why women have abortions are diverse and vary across the world.\n\nSome abortions are undergone as the result of societal pressures. These might include the preference for children of a specific sex or race, disapproval of single or early motherhood, stigmatization of people with disabilities, insufficient economic support for families, lack of access to or rejection of contraceptive methods, or efforts toward population control (such as China's one-child policy). These factors can sometimes result in compulsory abortion or sex-selective abortion.\n\nAn American study in 2002 concluded that about half of women having abortions were using a form of contraception at the time of becoming pregnant. Inconsistent use was reported by half of those using condoms and three-quarters of those using the birth control pill; 42% of those using condoms reported failure through slipping or breakage. The Guttmacher Institute estimated that \"most abortions in the United States are obtained by minority women\" because minority women \"have much higher rates of unintended pregnancy\".\n\nAn additional factor is risk to maternal or fetal health, which was cited as the primary reason for abortion in over a third of cases in some countries and as a significant factor in only a single-digit percentage of abortions in other countries.\n\nIn the U.S., the Supreme Court decisions in \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Doe v. Bolton\": \"ruled that the state's interest in the life of the fetus became compelling only at the point of viability, defined as the point at which the fetus can survive independently of its mother. Even after the point of viability, the state cannot favor the life of the fetus over the life or health of the pregnant woman. Under the right of privacy, physicians must be free to use their \"medical judgment for the preservation of the life or health of the mother.\" On the same day that the Court decided Roe, it also decided Doe v. Bolton, in which the Court defined health very broadly: \"The medical judgment may be exercised in the light of all factors—physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and the woman's age—relevant to the well-being of the patient. All these factors may relate to health. This allows the attending physician the room he needs to make his best medical judgment.\"\n\nPublic opinion shifted in America following television personality Sherri Finkbine's discovery during her fifth month of pregnancy that she had been exposed to thalidomide. Unable to obtain a legal abortion in the United States, she traveled to Sweden. From 1962 to 1965, an outbreak of German measles left 15,000 babies with severe birth defects. In 1967, the American Medical Association publicly supported liberalization of abortion laws. A National Opinion Research Center poll in 1965 showed 73% supported abortion when the mother's life was at risk, 57% when birth defects were present and 59% for pregnancies resulting from rape or incest.\n\nThe rate of cancer during pregnancy is 0.02–1%, and in many cases, cancer of the mother leads to consideration of abortion to protect the life of the mother, or in response to the potential damage that may occur to the fetus during treatment. This is particularly true for cervical cancer, the most common type of which occurs in 1 of every 2,000–13,000 pregnancies, for which initiation of treatment \"cannot co-exist with preservation of fetal life (unless neoadjuvant chemotherapy is chosen)\". Very early stage cervical cancers (I and IIa) may be treated by radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection, radiation therapy, or both, while later stages are treated by radiotherapy. Chemotherapy may be used simultaneously. Treatment of breast cancer during pregnancy also involves fetal considerations, because lumpectomy is discouraged in favor of modified radical mastectomy unless late-term pregnancy allows follow-up radiation therapy to be administered after the birth.\n\nExposure to a single chemotherapy drug is estimated to cause a 7.5–17% risk of teratogenic effects on the fetus, with higher risks for multiple drug treatments. Treatment with more than 40 Gy of radiation usually causes spontaneous abortion. Exposure to much lower doses during the first trimester, especially 8 to 15 weeks of development, can cause intellectual disability or microcephaly, and exposure at this or subsequent stages can cause reduced intrauterine growth and birth weight. Exposures above 0.005–0.025 Gy cause a dose-dependent reduction in IQ. It is possible to greatly reduce exposure to radiation with abdominal shielding, depending on how far the area to be irradiated is from the fetus.\n\nThe process of birth itself may also put the mother at risk. \"Vaginal delivery may result in dissemination of neoplastic cells into lymphovascular channels, haemorrhage, cervical laceration and implantation of malignant cells in the episiotomy site, while abdominal delivery may delay the initiation of non-surgical treatment.\"\n\nSince ancient times abortions have been done using herbal medicines, sharp tools, with force, or through other traditional methods. Induced abortion has long history, and can be traced back to civilizations as varied as China under Shennong (c. 2700 BCE), Ancient Egypt with its Ebers Papyrus (c. 1550 BCE), and the Roman Empire in the time of Juvenal (c. 200 CE). There is evidence to suggest that pregnancies were terminated through a number of methods, including the administration of abortifacient herbs, the use of sharpened implements, the application of abdominal pressure, and other techniques. One of the earliest known artistic representations of abortion is in a bas relief at Angkor Wat (c. 1150). Found in a series of friezes that represent judgment after death in Hindu and Buddhist culture, it depicts the technique of abdominal abortion.\n\nSome medical scholars and abortion opponents have suggested that the Hippocratic Oath forbade Ancient Greek physicians from performing abortions; other scholars disagree with this interpretation, and state that the medical texts of Hippocratic Corpus contain descriptions of abortive techniques right alongside the Oath. The physician Scribonius Largus wrote in 43 CE that the Hippocratic Oath prohibits abortion, as did Soranus, although apparently not all doctors adhered to it strictly at the time. According to Soranus' 1st or 2nd century CE work \"Gynaecology\", one party of medical practitioners banished all abortives as required by the Hippocratic Oath; the other party—to which he belonged—was willing to prescribe abortions, but only for the sake of the mother's health.\n\nAristotle, in his treatise on government \"Politics\" (350 BCE), condemns infanticide as a means of population control. He preferred abortion in such cases, with the restriction \"<nowiki>[that it]</nowiki> must be practised on it before it has developed sensation and life; for the line between lawful and unlawful abortion will be marked by the fact of having sensation and being alive\". In Christianity, Pope Sixtus V (1585–90) was the only Pope before 1869 to declare that abortion is homicide regardless of the stage of pregnancy; and his pronouncement of 1588 was reversed three years later by his successor. Through most of its history the Catholic Church was divided on whether it believed that abortion was murder, and it did not begin vigorously opposing abortion until the 19th century. In fact, several historians have written that prior to the 19th century most Catholic authors did not regard termination of pregnancy before \"quickening\" or \"ensoulment\" as an abortion.\n\nA 1995 survey reported that Catholic women are as likely as the general population to terminate a pregnancy, Protestants are less likely to do so, and Evangelical Christians are the least likely to do so. Islamic tradition has traditionally permitted abortion until a point in time when Muslims believe the soul enters the fetus, considered by various theologians to be at conception, 40 days after conception, 120 days after conception, or quickening.<ref name=\"BBC and Islam / Abortion\"></ref> However, abortion is largely heavily restricted or forbidden in areas of high Islamic faith such as the Middle East and North Africa.\n\nIn Europe and North America, abortion techniques advanced starting in the 17th century. However, conservatism by most physicians with regards to sexual matters prevented the wide expansion of safe abortion techniques. Other medical practitioners in addition to some physicians advertised their services, and they were not widely regulated until the 19th century, when the practice (sometimes called \"restellism\") was banned in both the United States and the United Kingdom. Church groups as well as physicians were highly influential in anti-abortion movements. In the US, according to some sources, abortion was more dangerous than childbirth until about 1930 when incremental improvements in abortion procedures relative to childbirth made abortion safer. However, other sources maintain that in the 19th century early abortions under the hygienic conditions in which midwives usually worked were relatively safe.\nIn addition, some commentators have written that, despite improved medical procedures, the period from the 1930s until legalization also saw more zealous enforcement of anti-abortion laws, and concomitantly an increasing control of abortion providers by organized crime.\n\nSoviet Russia (1919), Iceland (1935) and Sweden (1938) were among the first countries to legalize certain or all forms of abortion. In 1935 Nazi Germany, a law was passed permitting abortions for those deemed \"hereditarily ill\", while women considered of German stock were specifically prohibited from having abortions. Beginning in the second half of the twentieth century, abortion was legalized in a greater number of countries.\n\nInduced abortion has long been the source of considerable debate. Ethical, moral, philosophical, biological, religious and legal issues surrounding abortion are related to value systems. Opinions of abortion may be about fetal rights, governmental authority, and women's rights.\n\nIn both public and private debate, arguments presented in favor of or against abortion access focus on either the moral permissibility of an induced abortion, or justification of laws permitting or restricting abortion. The World Medical Association Declaration on Therapeutic Abortion notes, \"circumstances bringing the interests of a mother into conflict with the interests of her unborn child create a dilemma and raise the question as to whether or not the pregnancy should be deliberately terminated.\" Abortion debates, especially pertaining to abortion laws, are often spearheaded by groups advocating one of these two positions. Anti-abortion groups who favor greater legal restrictions on abortion, including complete prohibition, most often describe themselves as \"pro-life\" while abortion rights groups who are against such legal restrictions describe themselves as \"pro-choice\". Generally, the former position argues that a human fetus is a human person with a right to live, making abortion morally the same as murder. The latter position argues that a woman has certain reproductive rights, especially the right to decide whether or not to carry a pregnancy to term.\n\nCurrent laws pertaining to abortion are diverse. Religious, moral, and cultural factors continue to influence abortion laws throughout the world. The right to life, the right to liberty, the right to security of person, and the right to reproductive health are major issues of human rights that sometimes constitute the basis for the existence or absence of abortion laws.\n\nIn jurisdictions where abortion is legal, certain requirements must often be met before a woman may obtain a safe, legal abortion (an abortion performed without the woman's consent is considered feticide). These requirements usually depend on the age of the fetus, often using a trimester-based system to regulate the window of legality, or as in the U.S., on a doctor's evaluation of the fetus' viability. Some jurisdictions require a waiting period before the procedure, prescribe the distribution of information on fetal development, or require that parents be contacted if their minor daughter requests an abortion. Other jurisdictions may require that a woman obtain the consent of the fetus' father before aborting the fetus, that abortion providers inform women of health risks of the procedure—sometimes including \"risks\" not supported by the medical literature—and that multiple medical authorities certify that the abortion is either medically or socially necessary. Many restrictions are waived in emergency situations. China, which has ended their one-child policy, and now has a two child policy, has at times incorporated mandatory abortions as part of their population control strategy.\n\nOther jurisdictions ban abortion almost entirely. Many, but not all, of these allow legal abortions in a variety of circumstances. These circumstances vary based on jurisdiction, but may include whether the pregnancy is a result of rape or incest, the fetus' development is impaired, the woman's physical or mental well-being is endangered, or socioeconomic considerations make childbirth a hardship. In countries where abortion is banned entirely, such as Nicaragua, medical authorities have recorded rises in maternal death directly and indirectly due to pregnancy as well as deaths due to doctors' fears of prosecution if they treat other gynecological emergencies. Some countries, such as Bangladesh, that nominally ban abortion, may also support clinics that perform abortions under the guise of menstrual hygiene. This is also a terminology in traditional medicine. In places where abortion is illegal or carries heavy social stigma, pregnant women may engage in medical tourism and travel to countries where they can terminate their pregnancies. Women without the means to travel can resort to providers of illegal abortions or attempt to perform an abortion by themselves.\n\nThe organization Women on Waves, has been providing education about medical abortions since 1999. The NGO created a mobile medical clinic inside a shipping container, which then travels on rented ships to countries with restrictive abortion laws. Because the ships are registered in the Netherlands, Dutch law prevails when the ship is in international waters. While in port, the organization provides free workshops and education; while in international waters, medical personnel are legally able to prescribe medical abortion drugs and counseling.\n\nSonography and amniocentesis allow parents to determine sex before childbirth. The development of this technology has led to sex-selective abortion, or the termination of a fetus based on sex. The selective termination of a female fetus is most common.\n\nSex-selective abortion is partially responsible for the noticeable disparities between the birth rates of male and female children in some countries. The preference for male children is reported in many areas of Asia, and abortion used to limit female births has been reported in Taiwan, South Korea, India, and China. This deviation from the standard birth rates of males and females occurs despite the fact that the country in question may have officially banned sex-selective abortion or even sex-screening. In China, a historical preference for a male child has been exacerbated by the one-child policy, which was enacted in 1979.\n\nMany countries have taken legislative steps to reduce the incidence of sex-selective abortion. At the International Conference on Population and Development in 1994 over 180 states agreed to eliminate \"all forms of discrimination against the girl child and the root causes of son preference\", conditions also condemned by a PACE resolution in 2011. The World Health Organization and UNICEF, along with other United Nations agencies, have found that measures to reduce access to abortion are much less effective at reducing sex-selective abortions than measures to reduce gender inequality.\n\nIn a number of cases, abortion providers and these facilities have been subjected to various forms of violence, including murder, attempted murder, kidnapping, stalking, assault, arson, and bombing. Anti-abortion violence is classified by both governmental and scholarly sources as terrorism. Only a small fraction of those opposed to abortion commit violence.\n\nIn the United States, four physicians who performed abortions have been murdered: David Gunn (1993), John Britton (1994), Barnett Slepian (1998), and George Tiller (2009). Also murdered, in the U.S. and Australia, have been other personnel at abortion clinics, including receptionists and security guards such as James Barrett, Shannon Lowney, Lee Ann Nichols, and Robert Sanderson. Woundings (e.g., Garson Romalis) and attempted murders have also taken place in the United States and Canada. Hundreds of bombings, arsons, acid attacks, invasions, and incidents of vandalism against abortion providers have occurred. Notable perpetrators of anti-abortion violence include Eric Robert Rudolph, Scott Roeder, Shelley Shannon, and Paul Jennings Hill, the first person to be executed in the United States for murdering an abortion provider.\n\nLegal protection of access to abortion has been brought into some countries where abortion is legal. These laws typically seek to protect abortion clinics from obstruction, vandalism, picketing, and other actions, or to protect women and employees of such facilities from threats and harassment.\n\nFar more common than physical violence is psychological pressure. In 2003, Chris Danze organized pro-life organizations throughout Texas to prevent the construction of a Planned Parenthood facility in Austin. The organizations released the personal information online, of those involved with construction, sending them up to 1200 phone calls a day and contacting their churches. Some protestors record women entering clinics on camera.\n\nSpontaneous abortion occurs in various animals. For example, in sheep it may be caused by stress or physical exertion, such as crowding through doors or being chased by dogs. In cows, abortion may be caused by contagious disease, such as brucellosis or \"Campylobacter\", but can often be controlled by vaccination. Eating pine needles can also induce abortions in cows. In horses, a fetus may be aborted or resorbed if it has lethal white syndrome (congenital intestinal aganglionosis). Foal embryos that are homozygous for the dominant white gene (WW) are theorized to also be aborted or resorbed before birth. In many species of sharks and rays, stress induced abortions occur frequently on capture.\n\nViral infection can cause abortion in dogs. Cats can experience spontaneous abortion for many reasons, including hormonal imbalance. A combined abortion and spaying is performed on pregnant cats, especially in Trap-Neuter-Return programs, to prevent unwanted kittens from being born.\nFemale rodents may terminate a pregnancy when exposed to the smell of a male not responsible for the pregnancy, known as the Bruce effect.\n\nAbortion may also be induced in animals, in the context of animal husbandry. For example, abortion may be induced in mares that have been mated improperly, or that have been purchased by owners who did not realize the mares were pregnant, or that are pregnant with twin foals. Feticide can occur in horses and zebras due to male harassment of pregnant mares or forced copulation, although the frequency in the wild has been questioned. Male gray langur monkeys may attack females following male takeover, causing miscarriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11338826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11338826", "title": "Admissible heuristic", "text": "Admissible heuristic\n\nIn computer science, specifically in algorithms related to pathfinding, a heuristic function is said to be admissible if it never overestimates the cost of reaching the goal, i.e. the cost it estimates to reach the goal is not higher than the lowest possible cost from the current point in the path.\n\nAn admissible heuristic is used to estimate the cost of reaching the \ngoal state in an informed search algorithm. In order for a heuristic\nto be admissible to the search problem, the estimated cost must always \nbe lower than or equal to the actual cost of reaching the goal state. \nThe search algorithm uses the admissible heuristic to find an estimated \noptimal path to the goal state from the current node. \nFor example, in A* search the evaluation function (where \nformula_1 is the current node) is:\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere\n\nformula_5 is calculated using the heuristic \nfunction. With a non-admissible heuristic, the A* algorithm could \noverlook the optimal solution to a search problem due to an \noverestimation in formula_3.\n\nAn admissible heuristic can be derived from a relaxed\nversion of the problem, or by information from pattern databases that store exact solutions to subproblems of the problem, or by using inductive learning methods.\n\nTwo different examples of admissible heuristics apply to the fifteen puzzle problem:\n\nThe Hamming distance is the total number of misplaced tiles. It is clear that this heuristic is admissible since the total number of moves to order the tiles correctly is at least the number of misplaced tiles (each tile not in place must be moved at least once). The cost (number of moves) to the goal (an ordered puzzle) is at least the Hamming distance of the puzzle.\n\nThe Manhattan distance of a puzzle is defined as:\n\nConsider the puzzle below in which the player wishes to move each tile such that the numbers are ordered. The Manhattan distance is an admissible heuristic in this case because every tile will have to be moved at least the number of spots in between itself and its correct position.\n\nThe subscripts show the Manhattan distance for each tile. The total Manhattan distance for the shown puzzle is:\n\nIf an admissible heuristic is adapted in an algorithm (for example in A* search algorithm), then this algorithm would eventually find an optimal solution to the goal. A well-known and easy-to-understand example is breadth-first search. In the case of BFS, the heuristic evaluation function formula_5 equals to formula_21 for each node formula_1, which is obviously less than the actual cost (thus underestimated). This heuristic would cause the BFS algorithm to search literally all the possible paths and eventually find the optimal solution (i.e., the shortest path to the goal).\n\nAs an example of why admissibility can guarantee optimality, let's say we have costs as follows:(the cost above/below a node is the heuristic, the cost at an edge is the actual cost)\n\nSo clearly we'd start off visiting the top middle node, since the expected total cost, i.e. formula_3, is formula_24. Then the goal would be a candidate, with formula_3 equal to formula_26. Then we'd clearly pick the bottom nodes one after the other, followed by the updated goal, since they all have formula_3 lower than the formula_3 of the current goal, i.e. their formula_3 is formula_30. So even though the goal was a candidate, we couldn't pick it because there were still better paths out there. This way, an admissible heuristic can ensure optimality.\n\nHowever, note that although an admissible heuristic can guarantee final optimality, it's not necessarily efficient.\n\nWhile all consistent heuristics are admissible, not all admissible heuristics are consistent.\n\nFor tree search problems, if an admissible heuristic is used, the A* search algorithm will never return a suboptimal goal node.\n\n"}
{"id": "23979087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23979087", "title": "Albert Ackroyd", "text": "Albert Ackroyd\n\nAlbert W. Ackroyd was an English professional rugby league footballer of the 1920s. He played at representative level for England, and at club level for Halifax (Heritage № 192), as a , i.e. number 3 or 4.\n\nAckroyd won a cap for England while at Halifax in 1921 against Wales.\n\nAckroyd retired in 1922. He served as assistant trainer for Halifax from 1931–33.\n"}
{"id": "38378255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38378255", "title": "Alexander Gordon, Master of Sutherland", "text": "Alexander Gordon, Master of Sutherland\n\nAlexander Gordon, Master of Sutherland (c.1505-1530), Scottish magnate, made Earl of Sutherland in 1527.\n\nAlexander Gordon was the son of Adam Gordon of Aboyne (d.1538) and Elizabeth de Moravia, Countess of Sutherland (d.1535), the daughter of John de Moravia, 8th Earl of Sutherland.\n\nIn 1522 John Mackay of Strathnaver made a bond to serve Alexander, then Master of Sutherland, as he had served his father. Robert Gordon, the 17th-century historian of the Sutherlands, saw this part as Adam's initiative to put the earldom into his son's hands. According to Robert Gordon, Alexander had defeated armed incursions by the Mackays into Sutherland territory. Adam and Elizabeth had fought the Mackays at the Battle of Torran Dubh in 1517.\n\nPerhaps in connection with Alexander's marriage to Janet Stewart, daughter of John Stewart, 2nd Earl of Atholl, his parents resigned the Earldom of Sutherland to Alexander in November 1527, and a crown charter to this effect was issued in December. Alexander, now Earl of Sutherland lived at Dunrobin Castle, and died there on 13 January 1530.\n\nAlexander's royal charter of the earldom, dated 1 December 1527 describes his parents as the Earl of Countess of Sutherland. They resigned to him the earldom of Sutherland and its lands, Dunrobin with all its tenants and outliers, mills, sea and freshwater fishing, patronage of the church and chapel there, with some reservations to Adam and Elizabeth in their lifetimes. As Alexander pre-deceased his parents, he did not profit from the earldom in full.\n\nWith Janet Stewart, Alexander had children;\n\n"}
{"id": "5794648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5794648", "title": "Angels &amp; Demons (film)", "text": "Angels &amp; Demons (film)\n\nAngels & Demons is a 2009 American mystery horror thriller film directed by Ron Howard and written by Akiva Goldsman and David Koepp, based on Dan Brown's novel of the same title. It is the sequel to the 2006 film \"The Da Vinci Code\", also directed by Howard, and the second installment in the \"Robert Langdon\" film series. The novel was published first and \"The Da Vinci Code\" novel followed it. Filming took place in Rome, Italy, and the Sony Pictures Studios in Culver City, California. Tom Hanks reprises his role as Professor Robert Langdon. Producer Brian Grazer, composer Hans Zimmer and screenwriter Akiva Goldsman also return, with David Koepp coming on board to help the latter.\n\nThe film grossed $485 million worldwide. A sequel, titled \"Inferno\", was released on October 28, 2016.\n\nAt CERN, Father Silvano and Dr. Vittoria Verna create three canisters of antimatter. Silvano is murdered, and one of the canisters is stolen. The Roman Catholic Church mourn the sudden death of Pope Pius XVI, and prepare for the papal conclave to elect his successor in Vatican City. Father Patrick McKenna, the Camerlengo, takes control of the Vatican. Four of the “preferiti”, the favoured candidates to be Pope, are kidnapped by a man claiming to represent the Illuminati. He sends the Vatican a warning, claiming he will murder each of the cardinals from 8pm to midnight, where the stolen antimatter will explode and destroy the city, hidden somewhere within.\n\nAmerican symbologist Professor Robert Langdon is brought to the Vatican to help. He deduces that the four cardinals will be murdered on the four altars of the “Path of Illumination”, in locations relevant to the classical elements. McKenna gives Langdon access to the Vatican Secret Archives to research the altars, against the wishes of Commander Richter, head of the Swiss Guard. He and Vittoria examine Galileo Galilei’s banned book, following clues to the Chigi Chapel, accompanied by Ernesto Olivetti and Claudio Vincenzi of the Corps of Gendarmerie of Vatican City. They find Cardinal Eber dead, branded with the ambigrammatic word “Earth”.\n\nThe second, Cardinal Lamassé, is murdered in St. Peter’s Square, his lungs punctured and branded with “Air”. Vittoria suspects the Pope was actually murdered via overdose, she and McKenna confirming this by secretly inspecting his body. Langdon, Olivetti, and Vincenzi eventually identify the Santa Maria della Vittoria as the altar of fire, finding Cardinal Guidera burning to death, branded with “Fire”. The assassin appears, killing Olivetti and Vincenzi, before escaping to drown Cardinal Baggia in the Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi. Langdon and civilians intervene, rescuing Baggia, who tells Langdon the preferiti were held in Castel Sant’Angelo.\n\nRichter confiscates Dr. Silvano’s journals, Vittoria convinced that he is a conspirator. Langdon, Vittoria, and the police storm Castel Sant’Angelo. Langdon and Vittoria find the assassin’s lair, discovering five brands, the last meant for McKenna. The assassin escapes, claiming his contractors are “men of God”. Guided to a car by his unseen contractor, the assassin dies when the vehicle explodes upon ignition. Langdon and Vittoria find a secret passageway leading to the Vatican, warning the Swiss Guard of McKenna’s fate. They find Richter hovering over a branded McKenna. He, and Archbishop Simeon, an alleged conspirator, are killed. Langdon retrieves a key from the dying Richter’s hand.\n\nThe antimatter container is found in Saint Peter's tomb, but will detonate in five minutes, the cold temperature preventing its battery from being charged in time. McKenna flees the Vatican with the canister, piloting a helicopter into the sky, then parachutes out seconds before the antimatter detonates. McKenna is hailed as a hero, with calls for him to be elected as Pope. \n\nLangdon and Vittoria retrieve Silvano’s journals from Richter’s office, finding he kept tabs on the Pope with hidden security cameras. They find footage of Richter confronting McKenna, revealing the Camerlengo is the mastermind behind the attacks. The Pope had invited Silvano to publicly present the antimatter as proof of a divine power, bridging the gap between religion and science. Considering such a claim blasphemy, McKenna orchestrated the Pope’s death, and the Illuminati assassin, then plotted to be elected as Pope. The footage is shown to the papal conclave. McKenna, realising he has been exposed, commits suicide via self-immolation.\n\nThe Vatican announces McKenna died from injuries from his parachute landing, and Baggia is elected as Pope Luke I. Cardinal Strauss, the Pope’s new Camerlengo, gives Langdon the “Diagramma Veritatis” as thanks for his help, and to complete his scholarly work on Galileo. The new Pope gives Langdon and Vittoria a thankful nod, before stepping out on the balcony to greet the crowd below.\n\nIn 2003, Sony Pictures acquired the film rights to \"Angels & Demons\" along with \"The Da Vinci Code\" in a deal with author Dan Brown. In May 2006, following the release of the 2006 film adaptation of \"The Da Vinci Code\", Sony Pictures hired screenwriter Akiva Goldsman, who wrote the film adaptation of \"The Da Vinci Code\", to adapt \"Angels & Demons\". Filming was originally to begin in February 2008 and was originally going to be released on December 19, 2008, but because of the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike, the film was pushed back for May 15, 2009. David Koepp rewrote the script before shooting began.\n\nDirector Ron Howard chose to treat \"Angels & Demons\" as a sequel to the previous film, rather than a prequel, since many had read the novel after \"The Da Vinci Code\". He liked the idea that Langdon had been through one adventure and become a more confident character. Howard was also more comfortable taking liberties in adapting the story because the novel is less popular than \"The Da Vinci Code\". Producer Brian Grazer said they were too \"reverential\" when adapting \"The Da Vinci Code\", which resulted in it being \"a little long and stagey.\" This time, \"Langdon doesn't stop and give a speech. When he speaks, he's in motion.\" Howard concurred \"it's very much about modernity clashing with antiquity and technology vs. faith, so these themes, these ideas are much more active whereas the other one lived so much in the past. The tones are just innately so different between the two stories.\"\n\n\nShooting began on June 4, 2008, in Rome under the fake working title \"Obelisk\". The filmmakers scheduled three weeks of exterior location filming because of a predicted 2008 Screen Actors Guild strike on June 30. The rest of the film would be shot at Sony Pictures Studios in Culver City, California, to allow for this halt. Roman Catholic Church officials found \"The Da Vinci Code\" offensive and forbade filming in their churches, so these scenes were shot at Sony. The Caserta Palace doubled for the inside of the Vatican, and the Biblioteca Angelica was used for the Vatican Library. Filming took place at the University of California, Los Angeles in July. Sony and Imagine Entertainment organized an eco-friendly shoot, selecting when to shoot locations based on how much time and fuel it would save, using cargo containers to support set walls or greenscreens, as well as storing props for future productions or donating them to charity.\nHoward hated that the Writers Guild strike forced him to delay shooting the film until summer. However, the quick shoot allowed him to refine the naturalism he had employed on his previous film \"Frost/Nixon\", often using handheld cameras to lend an additional energy to the scenes.\n\nHanks interrupted filming of one scene in order to help Australian bride Natalia Dearnley get through the crowds to her wedding on time. McGregor said the Pope's funeral was the dullest sequence to film, as they were just walking across staircases. Then, \"Someone started singing 'Bohemian Rhapsody' [and] it became the funeral theme tune.\"\n\nWhen recreating the interior of St. Peter's Basilica, production designer Allan Cameron and visual effects supervisor Angus Bickerton recognized the tall soundstages were only half the size of the real church. They rebuilt the area around and the crypts beneath St. Peter's baldachin, including the bottoms of the columns and Saint Peter's statue, and surrounded it with a 360 degree greenscreen so the rest could be built digitally. Cameron had twenty crew members, posing as members of the public, photograph as much as they could inside the Sistine Chapel, and had artists sketch, photograph and enlarge recreations of the paintings and mosaics from the photographs. Cameron chose to present the Sistine Chapel as it was before the restoration of its frescoes, because he preferred the contrast the smoky, muted colors would present with the cardinals. Although the chapel was built to full size, the Sala Regia was made smaller to fit inside the stage.\n\nThe Saint Peter's Square and the Piazza Navona sets were built on the same backlot; after completion of scenes at the former, six weeks were spent converting the set, knocking down the Basilica side and excavating of tarmac to build the fountain. As there had been filming at the real Piazza Navona, the transition between it and the replica had to be seamless. To present the Santa Maria del Popolo undergoing renovation, a police station in Rome opposite the real church was used for the exterior; the scaffolding would hide that it was not the church. Cameron built the interior of Santa Maria del Popolo on the same set as the recreated Santa Maria della Vittoria to save money; the scaffolding also disguised this. The film's version of Santa Maria della Vittoria was larger than the real one, so it would accommodate the cranes used to film the scene. To film the Pantheon's interior, two aediculae and the tomb of Raphael were rebuilt to scale at a height of , while the rest was greenscreen. Because of the building's symmetrical layout, the filmmakers were able to shoot the whole scene over two days and redress the real side to pretend it was another. The second unit took photographs of the Large Hadron Collider and pasted these in scenes set at CERN.\n\nAngels & Demons: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack was released on May 22, 2009.\n\nHans Zimmer returned to compose the score for the sequel. He chose to develop the \"Chevaliers de Sangreal\" track from the end of \"The Da Vinci Code\" as Langdon's main theme in the film, featuring prominently in the tracks \"God Particle \" and \"503\". The soundtrack also features violinist Joshua Bell.\n\nThe DVD was released on November 24, 2009 in several countries as a theatrical version and extended cut.\n\n\"Angels and Demons\" was also released on UMD for the Sony PlayStation Portable (PSP) on October 21, 2009.\n\nThe extended cut includes violent scenes which had been cut out to secure a PG-13 rating. In the UK, the already censored US theatrical version had to be censored further in order to obtain a BBFC 12A rating. The Blu-ray includes the original theatrical version and is classified BBFC 15.\n\nOverseas, \"Angels & Demons\" maintained the #1 position for the second weekend as well even with the release of \"\", which opened at #2. The film opened with $46 million at the domestic box office. \"The Da Vinci Code\" had opened domestically to $77.1 million, but the sequel's opening met Columbia's $40–50 million prediction, since the film's source material was not as popular as its predecessor's. Within more than a month, the film grossed $478,869,160 worldwide, making it the largest-grossing film of 2009 until it was surpassed by \"\". Of this $478 million, just over 27% of it is from domestic venues, giving the film high worldwide totals, with over $30 million in the UK, $21 million in Spain, $13 million in Brazil, $13 million in Russia, $34 million in Japan, and $47 million in Germany. \"Angels & Demons\" was the ninth-highest-grossing film of 2009, with box-office figures of $485,930,810 worldwide.\n\nReview aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported that 37% of 249 critics have given the film a positive review, with an average rating of 5.1/10. The site's general consensus is that \"\"Angels and Demons\" is a fast-paced thrill ride, and an improvement on the last Dan Brown adaptation, but the storyline too often wavers between implausible and ridiculous, and does not translate effectively to the big screen.\" Metacritic has a rating score of 48 out of 100 based on 36 reviews. BBC critic Mark Kermode criticized the film's \"silliness\", saying \"Whereas the original movie featured Hanks standing around in darkened rooms explaining the plot to anyone who was still awake, this second salvo cranks up the action by having Tom explain the plot while running—a major breakthrough.\"\n\nRichard Corliss of \"Time\" gave the film a positive review, stating that \"\"Angels & Demons\" has elemental satisfactions in its blend of movie genre that could appeal to wide segments of the audience.\" Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" awarded the film three stars, praising Howard's direction as an \"even-handed job of balancing the scales\" and claiming \"[the film] promises to entertain.\" \"The Christian Science Monitor\" gave the film a positive review, claiming the movie is \"an OK action film.\" Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" gave the film two-and-a-half out of four stars claiming \"the movie can be enjoyed for the hell-raising hooey it is.\" Joe Morgenstern of \"The Wall Street Journal\" gave the film a mixed review, claiming it \"manages to keep you partially engaged even at its most esoteric or absurd.\"\n\nNeil Smith from \"Total Film\" gave the film four out of five stars, saying \"some of the author's crazier embellishments are jettisoned in a film that atones for The Da Vinci Code's cardinal sin — thou shalt not bore.\" Kim Newman awarded it three out of five stars, stating \"every supporting character acts like an unhelpful idiot to keep the plot stirring, while yet again a seemingly all-powerful conspiracy seems to consist of two whole evil guys.\"\n\n\"CBS News\" interviewed a priest working in Santa Susanna, who stated the Church did not want their churches to be associated with scenes of murder. A tour guide also stated most priests do not object to tourists who visit out of interest after reading the book, a trend which will continue after people see the film. \"I think they are aware that it's... a work of fiction and that it's bringing people into their churches.\" Grazer deemed it odd that although \"The Da Vinci Code\" was a more controversial novel, they had more freedom shooting its film adaptation in London and France. Italian authorities hoped the filmmakers corrected the location errors in the novel, to limit the amount of explaining they will have to do for confused tourists.\n\nWilliam A. Donohue, president of the Catholic League, did not call for a boycott, but requested that Catholics inform others about anti-Catholic sentiments in the story. \"My goal... is to give the public a big FYI: Enjoy the movie, but know that it is a fable. It is based on malicious myths, intentionally advanced by Ron Howard.\" A Sony executive responded that they were disappointed Donohue had not created attention for the film closer to its release date. Howard criticized Donohue for prejudging the film, responding that it could not be called anti-Catholic since Langdon protects the Church, and because of its depiction of priests who support science.\n\nThe official Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\" called the film \"harmless entertainment\", giving it a positive review and acknowledging that \"the theme is always the same: a sect versus the Church, [but] this time, the Church is on the side of the good guys.\" Beforehand, it had stated it would not approve the film, while \"La Stampa\" reported the Vatican would boycott it. However, it also quoted Archbishop Velasio De Paolis as saying a boycott would probably just have the \"boomerang effect\" of drawing more attention to \"Angels & Demons\" and making it more popular.\n\nIn FAQ titled \"Angels & Demons: from the Book to the Movie\", Massimo Introvigne, Director of CESNUR (Center for the Study of New Religions) points out crucial factual errors in Dan Brown's original novel and the film version. Introvigne also criticizes the Illuminati mythology that is treated as historical fact.\n\nIn Samoa, the film was banned by film censor Lei'ataua Olo'apu. Olo'apu stated that he was banning the film because it was \"critical of the Catholic Church\" and so as to \"avoid any religious discrimination by other denominations and faiths against the Church.\" The \"Samoa Observer\" remarked that Olo'apu himself is Catholic. The Censorship Board had previously banned the film \"The Da Vinci Code\", for being \"contradictory to Christian beliefs.\"\n\nSony Pictures produced a film adaptation of \"Inferno\", the fourth book in the \"Robert Langdon\" series, which was released on October 14, 2016, with Ron Howard as director, David Koepp adapting the screenplay, Tom Hanks reprising his role as Robert Langdon, and co-starring Felicity Jones, Ben Foster, Irrfan Khan and Sidse Babett Knudsen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3152236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152236", "title": "Anthropodermic bibliopegy", "text": "Anthropodermic bibliopegy\n\nAnthropodermic bibliopegy is the practice of binding books in human skin. As of April 2016, The Anthropodermic Book Project \"has identified 47 alleged anthropodermic books in the world's libraries and museums. Of those, 30 books have been tested or are in the process of being tested. Seventeen of the books have been confirmed as having human skin bindings and nine were proven to be not of human origin but of sheep, pig, cow, or other animals.\" (The confirmed figures as of August 2017 have increased to 18 bindings identified as human and 14 disproved.)\n\n\"Bibliopegy\" ( ) is a rare synonym for bookbinding. It combines the Ancient Greek βιβλίον (\"biblion\" = book) and πηγία (\"pegia\", from \"pegnynai\" = to fasten). The earliest reference in the Oxford English Dictionary dates from 1876; Merriam-Webster gives the date of first use as \"circa\" 1859 and the OED records an instance of \"bibliopegist\" for a bookbinder from 1824.\n\nThe word \"anthropodermic\" ( ), combining the Ancient Greek ἄνθρωπος (\"anthropos\" = man or human) and δέρμα (\"derma\" = skin), does not appear in the Oxford English Dictionary and appears never to be used in contexts other than bookbinding. The phrase 'anthropodermic bibliopegy' has been used at least since Lawrence S. Thompson's article on the subject, published in 1946. The practice of binding a book in the skin of its author - as with \"The Highwayman\", discussed below - has been called 'autoanthropodermic bibliopegy' (from αὐτός \"autos\", self).\n\nOne of the earliest examples of a binding claimed to be in human skin is the account published in 1606 of the execution of Henry Garnet for his involvement in the Gunpowder Plot, \"A True and Perfect Relation of the Whole Proceedings Against ... Garnet a Jesuit\". A copy auctioned in 2007 was claimed by the auctioneer to be bound in Garnet's own skin.\n\nAn early reference to a book bound in human skin is found in the travels of Zacharias Conrad von Uffenbach. Writing about his visit to Bremen in 1710: \nDuring the French Revolution, there were rumours that a tannery for human skin had been established at Meudon outside Paris. The Carnavalet Museum owns a volume containing the French Constitution of 1793 and \"Declaration of the Rights of Man\" described as 'passing for being made in human skin imitating calf'.\n\nThe majority of well-attested anthropodermic bindings date from the 19th century.\n\nSurviving examples of human skin bindings have often been commissioned, performed, or collected by medical doctors, who have access to cadavers, sometimes those of executed criminals, such as the case of John Horwood in 1821 and the Red Barn Murder in 1828. Another tradition, with less supporting evidence, is that books of erotica or the occult have been bound in human skin.\n\nThe Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh preserves a notebook bound in the skin of the murderer William Burke after his execution and subsequent public dissection by Professor Alexander Monro in 1829.\n\nWhat Lawrence Thompson called \"the most famous of all anthropodermic bindings\" is exhibited at the Boston Athenaeum, titled \"The Highwayman: Narrative of the Life of James Allen alias George Walton\". It is by James Allen, who made his deathbed confession in 1837 and asked for a copy bound in his own skin to be presented to a man he once tried to rob and admired for his bravery.\n\nThe Newberry Library in Chicago owns an Arabic manuscript written in 1848, with a handwritten note that it is bound in human skin, though \"it is the opinion of the conservation staff that the binding material is not human skin, but rather highly burnished goat\". This book is mentioned in the novel \"The Time Traveler's Wife\", much of which is set in the Newberry.\n\nThe French astronomer Camille Flammarion's book \"Les terres du ciel\" (The Worlds of the Sky) (1877) was bound with the skin donated from a female admirer.\n\nA portion of the binding in the copy of Dale Carnegie's \"Lincoln the Unknown\" that is part of the collection of Temple University's Charles L. Blockson Collection was \"taken from the skin of a Negro at a Baltimore Hospital and tanned by the Jewell Belting Company\".\n\nThe National Library of Australia holds a book of 18th century poetry with the inscription \"Bound in human skin\" on the first page.\n\nAn exhibition of fine bindings at the Grolier Club in 1903 included, in a section of 'Bindings in Curious Materials', three editions of Holbein's '\"Dance of Death\"' in 19th century human skin bindings; two of these now belong to the John Hay Library at Brown University. Other examples of the Dance of Death include an 1856 edition offered at auction by Leonard Smithers in 1895 and an 1842 edition from the personal library of Florin Abelès was offered at auction by Piasa of Paris in 2006. Bookbinder Edward Hertzberg describes the Monastery Hill Bindery having been approached by \"[a]n Army Surgeon ... with a copy of Holbein's \"Dance of Death\" with the request that we bind it in a piece of human skin, which he brought along.\"\n\nThe identification of human skin bindings has been attempted by examining the pattern of hair follicles, to distinguish human skin from that of other animals typically used for bookbinding, such as calf, sheep, goat, and pig. This is a necessarily subjective test, made harder by the distortions in the process of treating leather for binding. Testing a DNA sample is possible in principle, but DNA can be destroyed when skin is tanned, it degrades over time, and it can be contaminated by human readers.\n\nInstead, peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF) and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) have recently been used to identify the material of bookbindings. A tiny sample is extracted from the book's covering and the collagen analysed by mass spectrometry to identify the variety of proteins which are characteristic of different species. PMF can identify skin as belonging to a primate; since monkeys were almost never used as a source of skin for bindings, this implies human skin.\n\nThe Historical Medical Library of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia owns five anthropodermic books, confirmed by peptide mass fingerprinting in 2015, of which three were bound from the skin of one woman. This makes it the largest collection of such books in one institution. The books can be seen in the associated Mütter Museum.\n\nThe John Hay Library at Brown University owns four anthropodermic books, also confirmed by PMF: Vesalius's De Humani Corporis Fabrica, two nineteenth-century editions of Holbein's \"Dance of Death\", and \"Mademoiselle Giraud, My Wife\" (1891).\n\nThree books in the libraries of Harvard University have been reputed to be bound in human skin, but peptide mass fingerprinting has confirmed only one, \"Des destinées de l'ame\" by Arsène Houssaye, held in the Houghton Library. (The other two books at Harvard were determined to be bound in sheepskin, the first being Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" held in the Countway Library, the second being a treatise on Spanish law, \"Practicarum quaestionum circa leges regias Hispaniae\", held in the library of Harvard Law School.)\n\nThe Harvard skin book belonged to Dr Ludovic Bouland of Strasbourg, who owned a second, \"De integritatis & corruptionis virginum notis\", now in the Wellcome Library in London. The Wellcome also owns a notebook labelled as bound in the skin of 'the Negro whose Execution caused the War of Independence', presumably Crispus Attucks, but the library doubts that it is actually human skin.\n\nPeptide mass fingerprinting was also used to determine the binding material for a miniature devotional book in the University of California's Bancroft Library, \"L'office de l'Eglise en françois\". It is now known not to be bound in human skin but horse hide, or a mixture of horse and goatskin.\n\n\nThe binding of books in human skin is also a common element within horror films and works of fiction.\n\nFiction\n\nTelevision and cinema\n\nVideo games\n\n"}
{"id": "623891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623891", "title": "Blastomere", "text": "Blastomere\n\nIn biology, a blastomere is a type of cell produced by cleavage (cell division) of the zygote after fertilization and is an essential part of blastula formation.\n\nIn humans, blastomere formation begins immediately following fertilization and continues through the first week of embryonic development. About 90 minutes after fertilization, the zygote divides into two cells. These mitotic divisions continue and result in a grouping of cells called blastomeres. During this process, the total size of the embryo does not increase, so each division results in smaller and smaller cells. When the zygote contains 16 to 32 blastomeres it is referred to as a \"morula.\"\n\nIt is possible for errors to occur during this process of repetitive cell division. Common among these errors is for the genetic material to not be divided evenly. Normally, when a cell divides each daughter cell has the same genetic material as the parent cell. If the genetic material does not split evenly between the two daughter cells, an event called \"nondisjunction\" occurs. Since this event occurs in only one of the several cells that exist at this point, the embryo will continue to develop but will have some normal cells and some abnormal cells. The people are \"mosaics\" of normal and abnormal cells, so this disorder is called \"numerical mosaicism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "881405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881405", "title": "Cheburashka", "text": "Cheburashka\n\nCheburashka (), also known as Topple in earlier English translations, is a character in children's literature, from a 1966 story by Soviet writer Eduard Uspensky. He is also the protagonist (voiced by Klara Rumyanova) of the stop-motion animated films by Roman Kachanov (Soyuzmultfilm studio), the first film of which was made in 1969, with famous songs composed by Vladimir Shainsky.\n\nCheburashka is an iconic Russian classic cartoon character who later became a popular character in Russian jokes (along with his friend, Gena the Crocodile). According to the creator of the character, Eduard Uspensky (1965), Cheburashka is an \"animal unknown to science\", with large monkey-like ears and a body resembling that of a cub, who lives in a tropical forest. He accidentally gets into a crate of oranges, eats his fill, and falls asleep. The crate is eventually delivered to a grocery store in an unnamed Russian city (hinted to be Moscow), where the rest of the main story unfolds.\n\nThe puzzled store manager finds the creature in the crate when he opens it, and takes him out and sits him on the table. The creature's paws are numb after staying in the crate for so long, and he tumbles down (\"чебурахнулся\" \"cheburakhnulsya\", a Russian colloquialism meaning \"tumbled\") from the table, onto the chair, and then onto the floor. This inspires the store manager to name the little creature \"Cheburashka\". Words with this root were archaic in Russian; Uspensky gave them a new lease on life. (\"The Explanatory Dictionary of the Live Great Russian language\" of Vladimir Dahl gives the meaning of \"cheburashka\" as another name for the roly-poly toy.)\n\n\nCheburashka is male, has a bear-like body, large round ears, and is about the size of a 5-year-old child. After being turned down by the zoo as an \"animal unknown to science,\" Cheburashka gets hired as a window display for a discount store selling factory seconds because he resembles one, residing in a phone booth. In the tale, he befriends an anthropomorphic crocodile named Gena, who wears a hat, a bow tie and a coat, and plays the accordion. Gena works in a zoo as a zoo animal. Gena's favorite songs are \"Such a Pity that One's Birthday Happens Only Once a Year\" and \"The Blue Train Car,\" both of which are extremely popular with children.\n\nIn the cartoon, Cheburashka and Gena have their adventures made more difficult by a character named \"Старуха Шапокляк\" (Old Lady Shapoklyak, from French \"chapeau claque\", a kind of collapsible top hat). Shapoklyak is a mischievous but charming old lady. She is tall and thin, wears a hat, a dark-coloured dress, and bloomers, and carries around a pet rat, Lariska, in her purse to help her play pranks on people, though near the end of some stories she turns around and helps the protagonists. The chorus of her theme song contains her motto, \"One won't ever get famous for good deeds.\"\n\nThe rights to the Cheburashka character and image have been heavily debated in court. In 1994, Eduard Uspensky (the writer) copyrighted the character's name and image and proceeded to sell the rights to various countries. Leonid Shvartsman, the art director of the animated films, has tried to prove in court that he was the creator of Cheburashka's visual appearance and that this copyright should be separate from the rights for the literary character. On 13 March 2007, Shvartsman and his lawyer lost a 4.7 million ruble lawsuit against BRK Cosmetics and Eduard Uspensky. Shvartsman alleged that Uspensky sold the rights to the Cheburashka image (which was allegedly not his to sell) to BRK Cosmetics, which used it on packets of toothpaste. The defence argued that the artist who drew the character for the packets had never seen the animated films and, despite the fact that the character on the packets was an exact copy of the one in the animated films, had created the character himself after the impressions left from reading Uspensky's books. Vladimir Entin, defender of Shvartsman's interests, suspects that the jury had to have been bribed in order to hand such an unlikely verdict, but admits that there is no proof.\n\nCheburashka is now a staple of Russian cartoons, and there are several licensed products on the market, such as children's joke books and stuffed toys. He is also one of the few Russian animation characters to be the subject of numerous Russian jokes and riddles.\n\nThe word \"Cheburashka\" is also used in a figurative sense to name objects that somehow resemble the creature (such as an An-72 aircraft which, when seen from the front, resembles the character's head) or are just as pleasing as it is (e.g. a colloquial name for a small bottle of lemonade – from the brand name \"Cheburashka\").\n\nCheburashka was also chosen as the official mascot with the main mascots for the Russian Olympic Team in the following games:\n\n\"Cheburashka\" also became known in some countries outside the former Soviet Union (and of the Soviet Bloc). He became very popular in Japan after an animated film series about him was shown in 15 cinemas all over Japan and was watched by about 700,000 between summer 2001 and spring 2002. In 2008, the Cheburashka films (as part of the \"Ghibli Museum Library\") were made available to Japanese cinemas on the same date as Hayao Miyazaki's \"Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea\". An English-dubbed edition of at least one of the animated films was released in 1987, titled \"The Adventures of Charlie and Cubby.\"\n\nIn the 1970s a series of children's television shows, radio shows, records and magazines were produced in Sweden with the characters Drutten and crocodile Gena. These two characters were based on a couple of Cheburashka and Gena dolls bought on a trip to the Soviet Union, so they were visually identical to Cheburashka and Gena. (\"Drutten\" means \"one who tumbles down\", as one meaning of the Swedish colloquial verb \"drutta\" is \"to fall or tumble down\".)\n\nBut that is where the similarity ends. The two characters sang and told different stories from those in the USSR, lived on a bookshelf rather than in a city and are hand puppets operated in live action rather than stop motion. Only occasionally Swedish public service TV would broadcast a segment of the Russian original, dubbed in Swedish. So, while many Swedes may visually recognize Cheburashka, they will generally not associate these characters with the ones Russian children know.\n\nCheburashka dolls and other collectables are produced in Russia, Japan and China. United States National Champion figure skater Johnny Weir is known to be an avid collector of Russian Cheburashka items.\n\nThe white and red Olympic mascots were made in three sizes – 14 cm, 18 cm and 27 cm – and wear a sponsor's jersey with the \"Bosco Sport\" logo on the chest.\n\nT-shirts with Cheburashka are common, including several versions with the character drawn as Alberto Korda's Che Guevara photograph, labeled \"Che Burashka\".\n\nIvan Maximov had said in a 2004 interview that Pilot Studio had been planning to make a \"Cheburashka\" feature film and that the scenario had been written out and possibly some footage shot, but that it had been frozen for lack of funds. Cheburashka's popularity in Japan is such that on 4 April 2006, TV Tokyo broadband issued a press announcement that it (in partnership with Frontier Works) has acquired the rights to remake the Cheburashka shorts as a feature film. It is unclear if this was the project that Pilot Studio had been forced to abandon. It was announced that the film, like the original shorts, will be based on puppet animation enhanced with modern stop-motion technology and computer graphics effects (similar to the plans for the Pilot Studio film), and would be shot simultaneously in English and Russian.\n\nIn March 2009 it was announced that the new Cheburashka animation would consist of a new animated series, called \"Cheburashka arere?\", which will last for 26 3-minute episodes. \"Cheburashka arere?\" premiered on the \"Nori-Suta 100%\" television program on 7 October 2009.\n\nThe new film, only titled \"Cheburashka\" is produced by both Ffango Entertoyment of South Korea and Frontier Works of Japan. Directed by Makoto Nakamura and written by both Mikhail Aldashin and Michiru Shimada. The film opened in 8 December 2010 in Japan. The film's theme song is titled \"Orange\", performed by Kaela Kimura.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38603669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38603669", "title": "Daniel Bellamy, the elder", "text": "Daniel Bellamy, the elder\n\nDaniel Bellamy, the elder (born 1687) was an English miscellaneous writer. The son of Daniel Bellamy, scrivener of London, he was born in the parish of St. Alartin's, Ironmonger's Lane, on 25 December 1687. He entered Merchant Taylors' School on 12 March 1702, and matriculated as a commoner of St. John's College, Oxford, on 4 March 1706. In consequence of a reverse of fortune he was forced to leave Oxford without taking a degree in 1709, and became a conveyancer's clerk.\n\nHe was the author of:\n\n\nHe also began a translation of Bernard Picart's \"Ceremonies\". In some other works he was associated with his son Daniel Bellamy, the younger.\n\n"}
{"id": "33548913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33548913", "title": "Dehaene–Changeux model", "text": "Dehaene–Changeux model\n\nThe Dehaene–Changeux model (DCM), also known as the global neuronal workspace or the global cognitive workspace model is a part of Bernard Baars's \"global workspace model\" for consciousness.\n\nIt is a computer model of the neural correlates of consciousness programmed as a neural network. It attempts to reproduce the swarm behaviour of the brain's \"higher cognitive functions\" such as consciousness, decision-making and the central executive functions. It was developed by cognitive neuroscientists Stanislas Dehaene and Jean-Pierre Changeux beginning in 1986. It has been used to provide a predictive framework to the study of inattentional blindness and the solving of the Tower of London test.\n\nThe Dehaene–Changeux model was initially established as a spin glass neural network attempting to represent learning and to then provide a stepping stone towards artificial learning among other objectives. It would later be used to predict observable reaction times within the priming paradigm and in inattentional blindness.\n\nThe Dehaene–Changeux model is a meta neural network (i.e. a network of neural networks) composed of a very large number of integrate-and-fire neurons programmed in either a stochastic or deterministic way. The neurons are organised in complex thalamo-cortical columns with long-range connexions and a critical role played by the interaction between von Economo's areas. Each thalamo-cortical column is composed of pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons receiving a long-distance excitatory neuromodulation which could represent noradrenergic input.\n\nAmong others Cohen & Hudson (2002) had already used \"\"Meta neural networks as intelligent agents for diagnosis \" Similarly to Cohen & Hudson, Dehaene & Changeux have established their model as an interaction of meta-neural networks (thalamocortical columns) themselves programmed in the manner of a \"hierarchy of neural networks that together act as an intelligent agent\"\", in order to use them as a system composed of a large scale of inter-connected intelligent agents for predicting the self-organized behaviour of the neural correlates of consciousness. It may also be noted that Jain et al. (2002) had already clearly identified spiking neurons as intelligent agents since the lower bound for computational power of networks of spiking neurons is the capacity to simulate in real-time for boolean-valued inputs any Turing machine. The DCM being composed of a very large number of interacting sub-networks which are themselves intelligent agents, it is formally a Multi-agent system programmed as a Swarm or neural networks and \"a fortiori\" of spiking neurons.\n\nThe DCM exhibits several surcritical emergent behaviors such as multistability and a Hopf bifurcation between two very different regimes which may represent either sleep or arousal with a various all-or-none behaviors which Dehaene et al. use to determine a testable taxonomy between different states of consciousness. \n\nThe Dehaene-Changeux Model contributed to the study of nonlinearity and self-organized criticality in particular as an explanatory model of the brain's emergent behaviors, including consciousness. Studying the brain's phase-locking and large-scale synchronization, Kitzbichler et al. (2011a) confirmed that criticality is a property of human brain functional network organization at all frequency intervals in the brain's physiological bandwidth.\n\nFurthermore, exploring the neural dynamics of cognitive efforts after, \"inter alia\", the Dehaene-Changeux Model, Kitzbichler et al. (2011b) demonstrated how cognitive effort breaks the modularity of mind to make human brain functional networks transiently adopt a more efficient but less economical configuration. Werner (2007a) used the Dehaene-Changeux Global Neuronal Workspace to defend the use of statistical physics approaches for exploring phase transitions, scaling and universality properties of the so-called \"Dynamic Core\" of the brain, with relevance to the macroscopic electrical activity in EEG and EMG. Furthermore, building from the Dehaene-Changeux Model, Werner (2007b) proposed that the application of the twin concepts of scaling and universality of the theory of non-equilibrium phase transitions can serve as an informative approach for elucidating the nature of underlying neural-mechanisms, with emphasis on the dynamics of recursively reentrant activity flow in intracortical and cortico-subcortical neuronal loops. Friston (2000) also claimed that \"the nonlinear nature of asynchronous coupling enables the rich, context-sensitive interactions that characterize real brain dynamics, suggesting that it plays a role in functional integration that may be as important as synchronous interactions\".\n\nIt contributed to the study of phase transition in the brain under sedation, and notably GABA-ergic sedation such as that induced by propofol (Murphy et al. 2011, Stamatakis et al. 2010). The Dehaene-Changeux Model was contrasted and cited in the study of collective consciousness and its pathologies (Wallace et al. 2007). Boly et al. (2007) used the model for a reverse somatotopic study, demonstrating a correlation between baseline brain activity and somatosensory perception in humans. Boly et al. (2008) also used the DCM in a study of the baseline state of consciousness of the human brain's default network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5703257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703257", "title": "Edwin Harris Dunning", "text": "Edwin Harris Dunning\n\nSquadron Commander Edwin Harris Dunning, DSC (17 July 1892 – 7 August 1917), of the British Royal Naval Air Service, was the first pilot to land an aircraft on a moving ship.\n\nDunning was born in South Africa on 17 July 1892 the second child of Sir Edwin Harris Dunning of Jacques Hall, Bradfield, Essex, he was educated at Royal Naval Colleges at Osborne and Dartmouth.\n\nDunning landed his Sopwith Pup on in Scapa Flow, Orkney on 2 August 1917. He was killed five days later, during his third landing attempt of the day, when an updraft caught his port wing, throwing his plane overboard. Knocked unconscious, he drowned in the cockpit.\n\nHe is buried at St Lawrence's Church, Bradfield, beside his mother. A plaque in the church states: \n\nIn memory of Dunning, the Dunning Cup or Dunning Memorial Cup is given annually to the officer who is considered to have done most to further aviation in connection with the Fleet for the year in question. In the 1950s and 1960s it was awarded to Royal Air Force squadrons which achieve the highest standard on courses at the Joint Anti-Submarine School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50671910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50671910", "title": "Ezio Marano", "text": "Ezio Marano\n\nEzio Marano (6 August 1927, Brescia – 26 April 1991, Rome) was an Italian actor.\n\nHe made his debut in the theater in the mid-50s at the Piccolo in Milan under the guidance of Giorgio Strehler, in a long series of performances in both Italian and the Lombard dialect; he then entered into more and more companies in smaller but significant parts, working simultaneously on television and Radio Rai. For television, he was among the performers on the TV drama , directed by Vittorio Cottafavi in 1973.\n\nHe made his debut in the cinema comparatively late, in 1969, under the direction of Mauro Severino, and continued his film career, with his last movie being Ginger and Fred, directed by Federico Fellini in 1985. He died on 26 April 1991 by a lingering disease that had struck him three years earlier.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38928785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38928785", "title": "Giga Pet", "text": "Giga Pet\n\nGiga Pets are digital pets (also known as virtual pets or artificial pets) that were first released in the United States by Tiger Electronics in 1997 in the midst of a virtual-pet toy fad. Available in a variety of different characters, essentially each is a palm-sized video screen attached to a key ring. To ensure a happy, healthy pet, its owner has to take care of it in some of the same ways one might care for a real animal. Among other things, Giga Pets have to be fed, cleaned, and played with.\n\nGiga Pets are \"born\" on a tiny LCD screen after the owner pulls back a tab on the back. The pets come to life in different ways. For example, Baby T-Rex hatches from an egg. Compu Kitty is delivered by a stork. A beep sound and alert icon notify the owner that the pet requires attention. To determine what the Giga Pet needs, owners must scroll through various activities and push a button to select one. Activities include but are not limited to bathing, exercising, and disciplining the pet. Sometimes a selected activity is refused and the owner has to try a different one. A running score determines the pet’s overall well-being; neglect leads to the pet’s demise. The average life of a Giga Pet is 2 weeks but very healthy pets can live longer. When a Giga Pet dies it grows angel wings. When Giga Pets were initially tested, it was reported that the first thing most girls did was name their pets whereas most boys opted to discipline the digital creatures.\n\nGiga Pets were first created (called \"V-Pets\") by Chicago Toy inventing firm REHCO LLC, licensed to Tiger Electronics prior to Tamagotchis, however launched later to compete with Tamagotchis, egg-shaped virtual pets that were introduced in Japan in 1996 by Bandai and are widely credited with initiating the virtual pet craze in the U.S., the UK, and other countries. In the U.S., Giga Pets were reported to be more readily available than Tamagotchis and at price of approximately $10 USD, roughly $5 less than the suggest retail price for their Japanese counterpart. By the end of 1997, Tiger Electronics, a then privately held electronics toy and game-maker based in Vernon Hills, Illinois, was one of many manufacturers creating virtual pets. Others included Fujitsu, PF Magic, Sega, Viacom New Media, Casio, and Technosphere.\n\nRoger Shiffman, a Chicago native and co-founder of Tiger Electronics, is credited as being the driving force behind Giga Pets and Furby, a furry interactive pet with big eyes and pointed ears that could talk, shuffle and sneeze. Intended to be a follow up to Giga Pets, Shiffman included Furby in the deal he made with Hasbro when Tiger Electronics was sold to the giant toy manufacturer in 1998 for $335 million USD. Approximately 20 million Furbies were sold in the first 6 months following its 1998 release.\n\nTop Secret Toys LLC relaunched GigaPets August 1st 2018 after receiving the licensing rights from REHCO LLC. The virtual pets are made by the same manufacturer, programmers, and game designers from the 90s. Except this time they come with better animations and a free companion phone app that uses augmented reality to being the pixel pet to life. You don’t actually need to use the phone app, and you can still feel the same nostalgia of owning a GigaPet with or without the companion phone app. Top Secret Toys, the toy company responsible for the relaunch of GigaPets, aims to renew the customer engagement and nostalgia through design contests that allow the winners to see their pet designs get manufactured and sold.\n\nGiga Pets Explorer TV Plug n Play Game was launched in the spring of 2006 along with new versions of Giga Pets handheld devices. The TV game came with three pets within the unit and one separate handheld unit (the hamster) and sold for approximately $40 USD. Handhelds were sold in a 12-package assortment of characters as well as individually. The characters Pixie, Tomcat, Puff Ball, Dragon Lizard, Scorpion and Bunny were all available individually at a suggested retail price of approximately $15 USD.\n\nGiga Pets, along with other virtual pets, were banned in some schools in different countries around the world including Iceland, Thailand, the U.S. and Canada primarily because they were deemed a distraction in the classroom. Common complaints included annoying beeping sounds and children’s constant worry over their pets’ well-being. Some parents felt Giga Pets were an ideal learning toy that taught children responsibility. Others worried their kids were becoming too attached.\n\nBeyond the classroom, Giga Pets and their kind inspired debate over the implications of caring for virtual pets versus biological pets. Some people thought the on/off/reset switch implied to children that death wasn’t final and many people, some animal rights activists among them, believed that virtual pets taught children that caring for an animal was a matter of convenience.\n\nIn a Journal of American and Comparative Cultures article published in 2000, author, David W. Kritt, discussed the impact virtual pets had on young females in terms of gender stereotypes. Kritt claimed, “The implicit message to the predominantly female owners is that an emotional meaningful relationship is simply care and dependence. In contrast, flesh and blood pets provide mutuality, a relatively exclusive and enduring affection, and often some self-enhancing function.” Kritt went on to address the impact of virtual pets on girls and technology. He wrote: “Despite McLuhan’s trenchant insight that the medium is the message, the virtual pet may not be so much a point of entry intro cyberspace for girls as it is a promoter of traditional values.” Kritt argued that this message is amplified when a child’s parent, particularly her mother, focuses on helping the daughter keep the virtual pet alive.\n\n"}
{"id": "9620592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9620592", "title": "Hotula Khan", "text": "Hotula Khan\n\nHotula Khan was a Khan of Khamag Mongol and the son of Khabul Khan, and thus great-uncle of the Genghis Khan. He died fighting the Tatars. No Mongol emerged as khan after him until Genghis Khan. His nephew Yesugei only supervised the Khamag Mongols until his death in 1171.\n"}
{"id": "1190593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1190593", "title": "HumanLight", "text": "HumanLight\n\nHumanLight is a Humanist holiday celebrated annually on December 23. HumanLight was first celebrated in 2001, and was created to provide a specifically Humanist celebration during the western world's holiday season. The New Jersey Humanist Network founded the holiday in 2001 to aid secular people in commemorating the December holiday season without encroaching on other adjacent holidays—both religious ones such as Christmas and secular ones such as Solstice. The inaugural event involved only the founding organization, but is now celebrated by many secular organizations and individuals across the United States and other countries. Various organizations have recognized the holiday, including the American Humanist Association in 2004. The HumanLight Committee maintains the official HumanLight webpage and engages with humanist organizations and the media about the holiday.\n\nHumanLight is a secular holiday that focuses on the \"positive, secular human values of reason, compassion, humanity and hope\". While there are no universally accepted ways to commemorate the holiday, modern celebrations typically involve a communal meal among a family or group. The use of candles to symbolize reason, hope, compassion, and humanity has become widespread among those celebrating. Groups today also observe the holiday using charity work, gift exchanges, and other ideas associated with holidays and celebrations.\n\nThe name HumanLight comes from a non-supernatural emphasis on humanity with \"Light\" pointing to human reason. The event is designed to celebrate the \"positive human values of reason, compassion, humanity and hope\".\n\nHumanLight's origins stem from members of the New Jersey Humanist Network asking in the late 1990s how secular people could best participate in the December holiday season. The inaugural event occurred at the Verona Park Boathouse in Verona, New Jersey on December 23, 2001, and was attended by nearly 100 people, including prominent Humanist Paul Kurtz. \n\nCelebration of the holiday has expanded since its inaugural event. By 2010, there were at least thirty known public celebrations, and multiple secular organizations—including the American Humanist Association—had endorsed the holiday. The ceremonies themselves have also evolved. The first event involved a meal among its participants, along with artistic performances and other activities. Over the years, additional traditions have been added.\n\nThe December 23 date allows HumanLight to connect itself to the December holiday season without interfering with other winter holidays which many Humanists may also celebrate, such as Christmas. This was by design, as Patrick Colucci of the HumanLight Committee has stated that \"We're not out to take Christmas away from anyone who wants to celebrate it.\"\n\nThe HumanLight symbol was designed by a volunteer artist; the initial symbol appeared with a single figure, but was adjusted to include three figures in 2009 to reflect the \"community nature\" of the holiday. The current symbol \"depicts the light of the sun, and human figures celebrating with arms outstretched. The font characters composing HumanLight are of a festive, decorative nature.\"\n\nThere are no universal traditions, but over time the use of candles has become significant. Candles and decorations have at times used the colors blue, red, and yellow/gold, to represent both the colors of the HumanLight symbol as well as reason, compassion, and hope. There are no set colors for candle-lighting ceremonies, and both three and four candle ceremonies have been seen, with a fourth candle representing humanity.\n\nAlthough the first HumanLight celebration was with a large group at a public location, HumanLight is also celebrated as families or individuals, and can be in public or private venues, such as homes. There are no firm requirements for HumanLight celebrations. Even the date of celebration is flexible. For example, although HumanLight Day is December 23, if that date in a particular year falls on a weekday, organizers can schedule the celebration on the previous weekend, if needed.\n\nAlthough there are no requirements, there are a wide variety of possible themes and events to include in a HumanLight ceremony or celebration. These include \"science book exchanges,\" music, and children's activities, among others. Charitable works and donations are also common parts of HumanLight celebrations. Private events at home tend to involve more disparate activities, but frequently involve a meal with family and friends. The HumanLight Committee recommends keeping three principles central in any event: (1) promoting the positive values of Humanism, (2) avoiding negative messages related to other religions, and (3) keeping it family and children-friendly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41244", "title": "Hybrid (biology)", "text": "Hybrid (biology)\n\nIn biology, a hybrid is the result of combining the qualities of two organisms of different breeds, varieties, species or genera through sexual reproduction. Hybrids are not always intermediates between their parents (such as in blending inheritance), but can show hybrid vigour, often growing larger or taller than either parent. The concept of a hybrid is interpreted differently in animal and plant breeding, where there is interest in the individual parentage. In genetics, attention is focused on the numbers of chromosomes. In taxonomy, a key question is how closely related the parent species are.\n\nSpecies are reproductively isolated by strong barriers to hybridisation, which include morphological differences, differing times of fertility, mating behaviors and cues, and physiological rejection of sperm cells or the developing embryo. Some act before fertilization and others after it. Similar barriers exist in plants, with differences in flowering times, pollen vectors, inhibition of pollen tube growth, somatoplastic sterility, cytoplasmic-genic male sterility and the structure of the chromosomes. A few animal species and many plant species, however, are the result of hybrid speciation, including important crop plants such as wheat, where the number of chromosomes has been doubled.\n\nHuman impact on the environment has resulted in an increase in the interbreeding between regional species, and with introduced species worldwide, which has resulted in an increase in hybridisation. The genetic mixing may threaten many species with extinction, while genetic erosion in crop plants may be damaging the gene pools of many species for future breeding. A form of often intentional human-mediated hybridisation is the crossing of wild and domesticated species. This is common in both traditional horticulture and modern agriculture; many commercially useful fruits, flowers, garden herbs, and trees have been produced by hybridisation. One such flower, \"Oenothera lamarckiana\", was central to early genetics research into mutationism and polyploidy. It is also more occasionally done in the livestock and pet trades; some well-known wild × domestic hybrids are beefalo and wolfdogs. Human selective breeding of domesticated animals and plants has resulted is the development of distinct breeds (usually called cultivars in reference to plants); crossbreeds between them (without any wild stock) are sometimes also imprecisely referred to as \"hybrids\". \n\nHybrid humans existed in prehistory. For example, Neanderthals and anatomically modern humans are thought to have interbred as recently as 40,000 years ago.\n\nMythological hybrids appear in human culture in forms as diverse as the Minotaur, blends of animals, humans and mythical beasts such as centaurs and sphinxes, and the Nephilim of the Biblical apocrypha described as the wicked sons of fallen angels and attractive women.\n\nThe term hybrid is derived from Latin \"\", used for crosses such as of a tame sow and a wild boar. The term came into popular use in English in the 19th century, though examples of its use have been found from the early 17th century. Conspicuous hybrids are popularly named with portmanteau words, starting in the 1920s with the breeding of tiger–lion hybrids (liger and tigon).\n\nFrom the point of view of animal and plant breeders, there are several kinds of hybrid formed from crosses within a species, such as between different breeds.\nSingle cross hybrids result from the cross between two true-breeding organisms which produces an F1 hybrid (first filial generation). The cross between two different homozygous lines produces an F1 hybrid that is heterozygous; having two alleles, one contributed by each parent and typically one is dominant and the other recessive. Typically, the F1 generation is also phenotypically homogeneous, producing offspring that are all similar to each other.\nDouble cross hybrids result from the cross between two different F1 hybrids (i.e., there are four unrelated grandparents).\nThree-way cross hybrids result from the cross between an F1 hybrid and an inbred line. Triple cross hybrids result from the crossing of two different three-way cross hybrids. Top cross (or \"topcross\") hybrids result from the crossing of a top quality or pure-bred male and a lower quality female, intended to improve the quality of the offspring, on average.\n\nPopulation hybrids result from the crossing of plants or animals in one population with those of another population. These include interspecific hybrids or crosses between different breeds.\n\nIn horticulture, the term stable hybrid is used to describe an annual plant that, if grown and bred in a small monoculture free of external pollen (e.g., an air-filtered greenhouse) produces offspring that are \"true to type\" with respect to phenotype; i.e., a true-breeding organism.\n\nHybridisation can occur in the zones where geographical subspecies overlap. For example, the butterfly \"Limenitis arthemis\" has two major subspecies in North America, \"L. a. arthemis\" (the white admiral) and \"L. a. astyanax\" (the red-spotted purple). The white admiral has a bright, white band on its wings, while the red-spotted purple has cooler blue-green shades. Hybridisation occurs between a narrow area across New England, southern Ontario, and the Great Lakes, the \"suture region\". It is at these regions that the subspecies were formed.\n\nFrom the point of view of genetics, several different kinds of hybrid can be distinguished.\nA genetic hybrid carries two different alleles of the same gene, where for instance one allele may code for a lighter coat colour than the other. A structural hybrid results from the fusion of gametes that have differing structure in at least one chromosome, as a result of structural abnormalities. A numerical hybrid results from the fusion of gametes having different haploid numbers of chromosomes. A permanent hybrid results when only the heterozygous genotype occurs, as in \"Oenothera lamarckiana\", because all homozygous combinations are lethal. In the early history of genetics, Hugo De Vries supposed these were caused by mutation.\n\nFrom the point of view of taxonomy, hybrids differ according to their parentage.\nHybrids between different subspecies (such as between the Bengal tiger and Siberian tiger) are called intra-specific hybrids. Interspecific hybrids are the offspring from interspecies mating; these sometimes result in hybrid speciation. Intergeneric hybrids result from matings between different genera, such as between sheep and goats. Interfamilial hybrids, such as between chickens and guineafowl or pheasants, are reliably described but extremely rare. Interordinal hybrids (between different orders) are few, but have been made with the sea urchin \"Strongylocentrotus purpuratus\" (female) and the sand dollar \"Dendraster excentricus\" (male).\n\nWhen two distinct types of organisms breed with each other, the resulting hybrids typically have intermediate traits (e.g., one plant parent has red flowers, the other has white, and the hybrid, pink flowers). Commonly, hybrids also combine traits seen only separately in one parent or the other (e.g., a bird hybrid might combine the yellow head of one parent with the orange belly of the other).\n\nInterspecific hybrids are bred by mating individuals from two species, normally from within the same genus. The offspring display traits and characteristics of both parents, but are often sterile, preventing gene flow between the species. Sterility is often attributed to the different number of chromosomes between the two species. For example, donkeys have 62 chromosomes, horses have 64 chromosomes, and mules or hinnies have 63 chromosomes. Mules, hinnies, and other normally sterile interspecific hybrids cannot produce viable gametes, because differences in chromosome structure prevent appropriate pairing and segregation during meiosis, meiosis is disrupted, and viable sperm and eggs are not formed. However, fertility in female mules has been reported with a donkey as the father.\n\nA variety of mechanisms limit the success of hybridisation, including the large genetic difference between most species. Barriers include morphological differences, differing times of fertility, mating behaviors and cues, and physiological rejection of sperm cells or the developing embryo. Some act before fertilization; others after it.\n\nIn plants, some barriers to hybridisation include blooming period differences, different pollinator vectors, inhibition of pollen tube growth, somatoplastic sterility, cytoplasmic-genic male sterility and structural differences of the chromosomes.\n\nA few animal species are the result of hybridization. The Lonicera fly is a natural hybrid. The American red wolf appears to be a hybrid of the gray wolf and the coyote, although its taxonomic status has been a subject of controversy. The European edible frog is a semi-permanent hybrid between pool frogs and marsh frogs; its population requires the continued presence of at least one of the parent species. Cave paintings indicate that the European bison is a natural hybrid of the aurochs and the steppe bison.\n\nPlant Hybridization is more commonplace compared to animal hybridization. Many crop species are hybrids, including notably the polyploid wheats: some have four sets of chromosomes (tetraploid) or six (hexaploid), while other wheat species have (like most eukaryotic organisms) two sets (diploid), so hybridization events likely involved the doubling of chromosome sets, causing immediate genetic isolation.\n\nHybridization may be important in speciation in some plant groups. However, homoploid hybrid speciation (not increasing the number of sets of chromosomes) may be rare: by 1997, only 8 natural examples had been fully described. Experimental studies suggest that hybridization offers a rapid route to speciation, a prediction confirmed by the fact that early generation hybrids and ancient hybrid species have matching genomes, meaning that once hybridization has occurred, the new genome can remain stable.\n\nMany hybrid zones are known where the ranges of two species meet, and hybrids are continually produced in great numbers. These hybrid zones are useful as biological model systems for studying the mechanisms of speciation. Recently DNA analysis of a bear shot by a hunter in the North West Territories confirmed the existence of naturally-occurring and fertile grizzly–polar bear hybrids.\n\nHybrids are not as might be expected always intermediate between their parents (as if there were blending inheritance), but are sometimes stronger than either parent variety, a phenomenon called heterosis, hybrid vigour, or heterozygote advantage. This is most common with plant hybrids. A transgressive phenotype is a phenotype that displays more extreme characteristics than either of the parent lines. Plant breeders use several techniques to produce hybrids, including line breeding and the formation of complex hybrids. An economically important example is hybrid maize (corn), which provides a considerable seed yield advantage over open pollinated varieties. Hybrid seed dominates the commercial maize seed market in the United States, Canada and many other major maize-producing countries.\n\nIn a hybrid, any trait that falls outside the range of parental variation (and is thus not simply intermediate between its parents) is considered heterotic. \"Positive heterosis\" produces more robust hybrids, they might be stronger or bigger; while the term \"negative heterosis\" refers to weaker or smaller hybrids. Heterosis is common in both animal and plant hybrids. For example, hybrids between a lion and a tigress (\"ligers\") are much larger than either of the two progenitors, while \"tigons\" (lioness × tiger) are smaller. Similarly, the hybrids between the common pheasant (\"Phasianus colchicus\") and domestic fowl (\"Gallus gallus\") are larger than either of their parents, as are those produced between the common pheasant and hen golden pheasant (\"Chrysolophus pictus\"). Spurs are absent in hybrids of the former type, although present in both parents.\n\nHybridization is greatly influenced by human impact on the environment, through effects such as habitat fragmentation and species introductions. Such impacts make it difficult to conserve the genetics of populations undergoing introgressive hybridization. Humans have introduced species worldwide to environments for a long time, both intentionally for purposes such as biological control, and unintentionally, as with accidental escapes of individuals. Introductions can drastically affect populations, including through hybridization.\n\nThere is a kind of continuum with three semi-distinct categories dealing with anthropogenic hybridization: hybridization without introgression, hybridization with widespread introgression (backcrossing with one of the parent species), and hybrid swarms (highly variable populations with much interbreeding as well as backcrossing with the parent species). Depending on where a population falls along this continuum, the management plans for that population will change. Hybridization is currently an area of great discussion within wildlife management and habitat management. Global climate change is creating other changes such as difference in population distributions which are indirect causes for an increase in anthropogenic hybridization.\n\nConservationists disagree on when is the proper time to give up on a population that is becoming a hybrid swarm, or to try and save the still existing pure individuals. Once a population becomes a complete mixture, the goal becomes to conserve those hybrids to avoid their loss. Conservationists treat each case on its merits, depending on detecting hybrids within the population. It is nearly impossible to formulate a uniform hybridization policy, because hybridization can occur beneficially when it occurs \"naturally\", and when hybrid swarms are the only remaining evidence of prior species, they need to be conserved as well.\n\nRegionally developed ecotypes can be threatened with extinction when new alleles or genes are introduced that alter that ecotype. This is sometimes called genetic mixing. Hybridization and introgression, which can happen in natural and hybrid populations, of new genetic material can lead to the replacement of local genotypes if the hybrids are more fit and have breeding advantages over the indigenous ecotype or species. These hybridization events can result from the introduction of non-native genotypes by humans or through habitat modification, bringing previously isolated species into contact. Genetic mixing can be especially detrimental for rare species in isolated habitats, ultimately affecting the population to such a degree that none of the originally genetically distinct population remains.\n\nIn agriculture and animal husbandry, the Green Revolution's use of conventional hybridization increased yields by breeding \"high-yielding varieties\". The replacement of locally indigenous breeds, compounded with unintentional cross-pollination and crossbreeding (genetic mixing), has reduced the gene pools of various wild and indigenous breeds resulting in the loss of genetic diversity. Since the indigenous breeds are often well-adapted to local extremes in climate and have immunity to local pathogens, this can be a significant genetic erosion of the gene pool for future breeding. Therefore, commercial plant geneticists strive to breed \"widely adapted\" cultivars to counteract this tendency.\n\nFamiliar examples of equid hybrids are the mule, a cross between a female horse and a male donkey, and the hinny, a cross between a female donkey and a male horse. Pairs of complementary types like the mule and hinny are called reciprocal hybrids. Among many other mammal crosses are hybrid camels, crosses between a bactrian camel and a dromedary. The first known instance of hybrid speciation in marine mammals was discovered in 2014. The clymene dolphin (\"Stenella clymene\") is a hybrid of two Atlantic species, the spinner and striped dolphins.\n\nCagebird breeders sometimes breed bird hybrids known as mules between species of finch, such as goldfinch × canary.\n\nAmong amphibians, Japanese giant salamanders and Chinese giant salamanders have created hybrids that threaten the survival of Japanese giant salamanders because of competition for similar resources in Japan.\n\nAmong fish, a group of about fifty natural hybrids between Australian blacktip shark and the larger common blacktip shark was found by Australia's eastern coast in 2012.\n\nAmong insects, so-called killer bees were accidentally created during an attempt to breed a strain of bees that would both produce more honey and be better adapted to tropical conditions. It was done by crossing a European honey bee and an African bee.\n\nThe \"Colias eurytheme\" and \"C. philodice\" butterflies have retained enough genetic compatibility to produce viable hybrid offspring. Hybrid speciation may have produced the diverse \"Heliconius\" butterflies, but that is disputed.\n\nPlant species hybridize more readily than animal species, and the resulting hybrids are fertile more often. Many plant species are the result of hybridization, combined with polyploidy, which duplicates the chromosomes. Chromosome duplication allows orderly meiosis and so viable seed can be produced.\n\nPlant hybrids are generally given names that include an \"×\" (not in italics), such as \"Platanus\" × \"acerifolia\" for the London plane, a natural hybrid of \"P. orientalis\" (oriental plane) and \"P. occidentalis\" (American sycamore). The parent's names may be kept in their entirety, as seen in \"Prunus persica × Prunus americana\", with the female parent's name given first, or if not known, the parent's names given alphabetically.\n\nPlant species that are genetically compatible may not hybridize in nature for various reasons, including geographical isolation, differences in flowering period, or differences in pollinators. Species that are brought together by humans in gardens may hybridize naturally, or hybridization can be facilitated by human efforts, such as altered flowering period or artificial pollination. Hybrids are sometimes created by humans to produce improved plants that have some of the characteristics of each of the parent species. Much work is now being done with hybrids between crops and their wild relatives to improve disease-resistance or climate resilience for both agricultural and horticultural crops.\n\nSome crop plants are hybrids from different genera (intergeneric hybrids), such as Triticale, × \"Triticosecale\", a wheat–rye hybrid. Most modern and ancient wheat breeds are themselves hybrids; bread wheat, \"Triticum aestivum\", is a hexaploid hybrid of three wild grasses. Several commercial fruits including loganberry (\"Rubus\" × \"loganobaccus\") and grapefruit (\"Citrus\" × \"paradisi\") are hybrids, as are garden herbs such as peppermint (\"Mentha\" × \"piperita\"), and trees such as the London plane (\"Platanus\" × \"acerifolia\"). Among many natural plant hybrids is \"Iris albicans\", a sterile hybrid that spreads by rhizome division, and \"Oenothera lamarckiana\", a flower that was the subject of important experiments by Hugo de Vries that produced an understanding of polyploidy.\n\nSterility in a non-polyploid hybrid is often a result of chromosome number; if parents are of differing chromosome pair number, the offspring will have an odd number of chromosomes, which leaves them unable to produce chromosomally-balanced gametes. While that is undesirable in a crop such as wheat, for which growing a crop that produces no seeds would be pointless, it is an attractive attribute in some fruits. Triploid bananas and watermelons are intentionally bred because they produce no seeds and are also parthenocarpic.\n\nThere is evidence of hybridisation between modern humans and other species of the genus \"Homo\". In 2010, the Neanderthal genome project showed that 1–4% of DNA from all people living today, apart from most Sub-Saharan Africans, is of Neanderthal heritage. Analyzing the genomes of 600 Europeans and East Asians found that combining them covered 20% of the Neanderthal genome that is in the modern human population. Ancient human populations lived and interbred with Neanderthals, Denisovans, and at least one other extinct \"Homo\" species. Thus, Neanderthal and Denisovan DNA has been incorporated into human DNA by introgression.\n\nIn 1998, a complete prehistorical skeleton found in Portugal, the Lapedo child, had features of both anatomically modern humans and Neanderthals. Some ancient human skulls with especially large nasal cavities and unusually shaped braincases represent human-Neanderthal hybrids. A 37,000- to 42,000-year-old human jawbone found in Romania's Oase cave contains traces of Neanderthal ancestry from only four to six generations earlier. All genes from Neanderthals in the current human population are descended from Neanderthal fathers and human mothers. A Neanderthal skull unearthed in Italy in 1957 reveals Neanderthal mitochondrial DNA, which is passed on through only the maternal lineage, but the skull has a chin shape similar to modern humans. It is proposed that it was the offspring of a Neanderthal mother and a human father.\n\nFolk tales and myths sometimes contain mythological hybrids; the Minotaur was the offspring of a human, Pasiphaë, and a white bull. More often, they are composites of the physical attributes of two or more kinds of animals, mythical beasts, and humans, with no suggestion that they are the result of interbreeding, as in the centaur (man/horse), chimera (goat/lion/snake), hippocamp (fish/horse), and sphinx (woman/lion). The Old Testament mentions a first generation of half-human hybrid giants, the Nephilim, while the apocryphal Book of Enoch describes the Nephilim as the wicked sons of fallen angels and attractive women.\n\n"}
{"id": "54509324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54509324", "title": "Italian submarine Guglielmotti (1938)", "text": "Italian submarine Guglielmotti (1938)\n\nGuglielmotti was a built for the Royal Italian Navy (\"Regia Marina\") during the 1930s.\n\nThe \"Brin\"-class submarines were improved versions of the preceding . They displaced surfaced and submerged. The submarines were long, had a beam of and a draft of . The class was partially double hulled.\n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesel engines, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the \"Brin\" class had a range of at , submerged, they had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with eight internal torpedo tubes, four each in the bow and stern. They carried a total of 14 torpedoes. They were also armed with one deck gun for combat on the surface. The gun was initially mounted in the rear of the conning tower, but this was re-sited on the forward deck later in the war in the surviving boats and the large conning tower was re-built to a smaller design. The light anti-aircraft armament consisted of one or two pairs of machine guns.\n\n\"Guglielmotti\" was built by Tosi shipyard in Taranto, laid down on 3 December 1936, and launched on 11 September 1938. She was named after Father Alberto Guglielmotti, a renown Italian theologian, historian and a scholar of the history of the Italian Navy.\n\nUpon her commission, \"Guglielmotti\" was assigned together with , , and , as well as the older and to the 44th Squadron based at Taranto. During 1939 \"Galileo Galilei\" and \"Galileo Ferraris\" were moved to a different location and the 44th Squadron was renamed to 41st Squadron.\n\nDuring June 21-29, 1939 she undertook a training cruise from Naples to Lisbon, under the command of captain Folco Bonamici. Her task was to investigate conditions at the Strait of Gibraltar, and experiment with the transfer to the Atlantic and to optimize navigation time and performance. She started her return trip on July 3, and came back to Naples on 8 July 1939. In the following months, she underwent extensive training and performed exercises.\n\nIn 1940 \"Guglielmotti\" was reassigned to the 81st Squadron (VIII Submarine Group) based at the Red Sea port of Massawa. Her commander at the time was captain Carlo Tucci.\n\nHer first war mission was to retrieve the men of who ended up stranded on the deserted island of Barr Musa Chebir after their submarine ran aground and was scuttled. \"Guglielmotti\" left Massawa on June 21, 1940 and picked up all 21 men next day at 12:45 and then returned to Massawa.\n\nOn July 26 1940, she was sent together with destroyers and to search for two Greek merchants or a British merchant according to other sources, that had been reported as coming from Suez and heading south but the ship had never been found. She returned to Massawa on July 31.\n\nDuring 21-25 August 1940 she performed another mission in the Red Sea without sighting any vessels.\n\nOn September 6, 1940 \"Guglielmotti\" while on patrol, searching for the British convoy BN-4 south of the Farasan Islands, at about 15:00 sighted two ships. One was too far away, but the other was close and in a good position for an attack. This was a 30 year old tanker \"Atlas\" (4008 GRT) sailing under the Greek flag from Abadan to Suez, straggling behind the convoy BN-4. \"Guglielmotti\" closed in to within 700 meters and launched two torpedoes. The tanker was hit by both on starboard side opening a large hole from which the oil started flowing into the sea. The crew abandoned the ship, and rowed towards Aden. Since the tanker did not appear to be sinking, captain Tucci ordered to launch another torpedo, which missed the ship. The fourth torpedo was then launched which hit the ship and broke her into two. \"Atlas\" sank in the position .\n\nOn September 20, 1940 \"Guglielmotti\" and were sent to intercept British convoy BN-5, but they could not locate it.\n\nOn October 20-21, 1940 \"Guglielmotti\" and 'Galileo Ferraris' were sent to intercept British convoy BN-7 consisting of 31 merchants escorted by light cruiser HMNZS \"Leander\", destroyer and 5 sloops. Despite all the efforts, the submarines could not locate the convoy. \n\nIn January 1941, when it became clear that Italian East Africa would eventually fall, it was decided to send submarines to Bordeaux to try to save them from either destruction or capture by the British. All submarines were modified for the journey: their fuel tanks were enlarged, some torpedoes, gun ammunition were removed as well as some non-critical items.\n\nOn March 3-4, 1941 \"Guglielmotti\" under command of captain Gino Spagone left Massawa together with \"Archimede\" and headed to Bordeaux, in the occupied part of France. After circumnavigating Africa, and being refueled and restocked by the German tanker \"Northmark\" on her way, she finally arrived at Bordeaux on May 6, 1941. \"Archimede\" arrived at Bordeaux on 7 May, 1941. Overall, \"Guglielmotti\" traveled in 66 days to conclude another war patrol. Upon her arrival, \"Guglielmotti\" underwent maintenance and repairs which kept her out of operation until September 1941.\n\nOn September 22, 1941 she sailed from Bordeaux to return to the Mediterranean. On September 30, 1941 \"Guglielmotti\" traveled through the Strait of Gibraltar, and on October 16, 1941 she arrived in Messina without any incidents.\n\nFrom November 1941 through February 1942 she was at the Arsenal of Taranto undergoing maintenance and upgrades. As part of the procedure, her 100/43 mm Mod. 1927 gun was replaced with a more modern /47 caliber piece.\n\nAfter the work was finished, on March 15, 1942, \"Guglielmotti\" under command of captain Federico Tamburini departed from Taranto to her new base in Cagliari. At 6:33 on March 17 British submarine (under command of captain Edward Arthur Woodward), lurking off Capo dell'Armi detected her over the hydrophones and two minutes later sighted \"Guglielmotti\" 2200 yards away. After maneuvering to assume a better firing position, at 6:40 \"HMS Unbeaten\" launched four torpedoes. After a minute and 40 seconds an explosion was heard, and \"Guglielmotti\" sank quickly in the position , about 15 miles south of Cape Spartivento taking the majority of the crew down with her.\n\nAt 7:20 \"HMS Unbeaten\" surfaced, observed there were a dozen survivors in the water, and approached to pick them up. However, a plane was sighted, and the submarine crash dove to avoid being detected and left the area. In about three hours a torpedo boat \"Francesco Stocco\" arrived, and launched a depth-charge attack at the place of sinking, but the British submarine was already far away. Of the twelve survivors captain Woodward had seen in the water, \"Francesco Stocco\" found and recovered only a corpse. There were no survivors among the 61 men of the crew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40341221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40341221", "title": "Jeewanu", "text": "Jeewanu\n\nJeewanu (Sanskrit for \"particles of life\") are synthetic chemical particles that possess cell-like structure and seem to have some functional properties; that is, they are a model of primitive cells, or protocells. It was first synthesised by Krishna Bahadur (20 January 1926 — 5 August 1994), an Indian chemist and his team in 1963. Using photochemical reaction, they produced coacervates, microscopic cell-like spheres from a mixture of simple organic and inorganic compounds. Bahadur named these particles 'Jeewanu' because they exhibited some of the basic properties of a cell, such as the presence of semipermeable membrane, amino acids, phospholipids and carbohydrates. Further, like living cells, they had several catalytic activities. Jeewanu are cited as models of protocells for the origin of life, and as artificial cells.\n\nJeewanu is derived from Sanskrit \"jeewa\", meaning \"life\", and \"anu\", meaning the \"smallest part of something\", or the \"indivisible\". In contemporary Hindi, \"jeewanu\" also means unicellular organisms such as bacteria. Bahadur specifically used the term to represent the Indian philosophical tradition not only through the use of Sanskrit but also by inferring ideas on the origin of life from the Vedas. Bahadur, while employing the traditional Hindu philosophy, attempted to incorporate the advances in cell biology to the concept of abiogenesis.\n\nIn 1954 and 1958 Krishna Bahadur and co-workers published the successful synthesis of amino acids from a mixture of paraformaldehyde, colloidal molybdenum oxide or potassium nitrate and ferric chloride under sunlight. It appears that this experimental approach was seminal for the assays to produce Jeewanu, which he first reported in 1963 in an obscure Indian journal, \"Vijnana Parishad Anusandhan Patrika\". His detailed syntheses were published in Germany in 1964 in a series of articles.\n\nTheir initial experiment consisted of a sterilised apparatus in which inorganic nitrogenous compounds (such as ammonium phosphate and ammonium molybdate) and organic compounds such as citric acid (CHO), paraformaldehyde (OH(CHO)H) and formaldehyde (CHO) for carbon sources were mixed with minerals commonly found in living cells. Inorganic substances such as colloidal ferric chloride or molybdenum compounds supposedly acted as cofactors and catalysts.\n\nWhen the apparatus was exposed to sunlight for several days and constantly shaken, microscopic spherical particles were formed. The interesting features of these particles were that they were enclosed in a semipermeable membrane, like the typical cell membrane. Like living cells, they were reported to contain amino acids, phospholipid membrane and carbohydrates. In addition, they were claimed to have reproductive capability by budding, much like unicellular organisms, but did not grow on any bacterial culture medium. Bahadur reported that the Jeewanu exhibited various catalytic properties and produced their own peptides by metabolic reactions. Bahadur's later work on the Jeewanu also detected the presence of amino acids in peptide form and sugars in the form of ribose, deoxyribose, fructose and glucose, as well as nucleic acid bases (DNA and RNA building blocks) including adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymine and uracil. Bahadur also reported having detected ATPase-like and peroxidase-like activity. Bahadur stated that by using molybdenum as a cofactor, the Jeewanu showed capability of reversible photochemical electron transfer, and released a gas mixture of oxygen and hydrogen at a 1:2 ratio.\n\nBahadur's publications were ambivalently received, and the overall attention of the scientific community seemed limited since Krishna Bahadur and his co-workers reported that the Jeewanus are alive (a striking statement), the team changed the protocols frequently and documented them somewhat idiosyncratically. Bahadur defined \"living units\" as \"'\"[...] those which grow, multiply, and are metabolically active in a systematic, harmonious, and synchronized manner\".\" Then, NASA's Exobiology Division tasked two biologists in 1967 to review and evaluate the literature so far published by Krishna Bahadur (not to replicate the experiments) on the synthesis and characteristics of the Jeewanu. The two NASA biologists did not debate whether these three criteria are an adequate definition of life, but whether the Jeewanu satisfy these criteria. The NASA report concluded that \"the evidence presented on these three points is on the whole unconvincing\". The report also stated that the postulated existence of these living units has not been proved and \"the nature and properties of the Jeewanu remains to be clarified.\"\n\nIn the 1980s, the Hungarian chemist Tibor Gánti discussed the Jeewanu at length in his 'Chemoton theory' —an abstract model of autocatalytic chemical reactions— published first in Hungarian and translated into English in 2003. In the context of self-organizing structures, Gánti considered the Jeewanu a promising model system to understand the origin and fundamentals of life, and one that had never received due attention. In 2011, a German scientist stated that the Jeewanu story pertains to concepts of life, its beginnings, as well as possible artificially created cells.\n\nExperimental duplication work published in 2013 by Gupta and Rai reported that their size varies from 0.5 μ to 3.5 μ in diameter, growth from within, metabolic activities, and \"the presence of RNA-like material.\" The authors stated that the RNA-like material detected in the Jeewanu protocells support the RNA world hypothesis.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21493211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21493211", "title": "John, Prince of Antioch", "text": "John, Prince of Antioch\n\nJohn, Prince of Antioch (1431–1457), was the second son of Infante Peter, Duke of Coimbra, and Isabella of Urgell, Duchess of Coimbra.\n\nHe took part in the battle of Alfarrobeira, where his father's army was defeated by the Portuguese royal army.\n\nHe was imprisoned and was to be executed. However, due to the intervention of his aunt Isabella, he was sent into exile in Burgundy together with his brother James and sister Beatrice. His aunt Isabella, Duchess of Burgundy, was able to offer protection to her nephews and niece as wife of Duke Philip the Good. In 1456, John was elected a Knight of the Order of the Golden Fleece.\n\nIn 1456, John married Charlotte of Cyprus in Nicosia and was accorded the title Prince of Antioch. He was poisoned on the orders of his mother-in-law, Helena Palaiologina.\n\nHe was buried in Nicosia in a tomb which bears his coat of arms.\n\nFollowing his marriage to Charlotte, John bore a unique coat of arms, combining: (I) the Kingdom of Jerusalem, (II) his father's Portuguese-English ascentry, (III) the Kingdom of Armenia, (IV) the Kingdom of Cyprus; on top the arms of Lusignan.\n\n"}
{"id": "22819497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22819497", "title": "Keyboard Cat", "text": "Keyboard Cat\n\nKeyboard Cat is an Internet meme. It consists of a video from 1984 of a female cat called \"Fatso\" wearing a blue shirt and \"playing\" an upbeat rhythm on an electronic keyboard. The video was posted to YouTube under the title \"charlie schmidt's cool cats\" in June 2007. Schmidt later changed the title to \"Charlie Schmidt's Keyboard Cat (THE ORIGINAL)\".\n\nFatso (who died in 1987) was owned (and manipulated in the video) by Charlie Schmidt of Spokane, Washington, United States. Later, Brad O'Farrell, who was the syndication manager of the video website My Damn Channel, obtained Schmidt's permission to reuse the footage, appending it to the end of a blooper video to \"play\" that person offstage after the mistake or gaffe in a similar manner as getting the hook in the days of vaudeville. The appending of Schmidt's video to other blooper and other viral videos became popular, with such videos usually accompanied with the title \"Play Him Off, Keyboard Cat\" or a variant. \"Keyboard Cat\" was ranked No. 2 on Current TV's list of 50 Greatest Viral Videos.\n\nIn 2009, Schmidt became owner of Bento, another cat that resembled Fatso, and which he used to create new Keyboard Cat videos, until Bento's death in March 2018.\nThe owner, Charlie Schmidt, has made certain remarks that he may adopt or get a “Keyboard Cat 3.0”.\n\nThe first such \"Keyboard Cat\" video, entitled \"Play Him Off, Keyboard Cat\" was created by Brad O'Farrell, who both secured Schmidt's permission to use footage and asked Schmidt to allow anyone to use the footage with or without permission. Over four thousand such videos now exist, with a website created to collect them.\n\nThe Keyboard Cat meme has been spoofed several times on television. Keyboard Cat was popularized by Stephen Colbert on May 18, 2009, during a \"toss\" with \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\". At the 2009 MTV Movie Awards, Andy Samberg's opening monologue suggested that award winners whose speech went on too long would be played off by Keyboard Cat. Kato Kaelin also spoofed Keyboard Cat in a segment of Tosh.0 entitled \"Keyboard Kato\" in the series first episode. A television advertisement for Wonderful Pistachios features Bento, Charlie Schmidt's current Keyboard Cat, cracking one of the nuts during the song. Bento died on March 8, 2018. In the \"Mad\" episode \"Avaturd / CSiCarly\", Keyboard Cat is shown to be the music leader of the Na'vi alongside other famous blue characters in a spoof of the James Cameron film \"Avatar\".\n\nThe meme has also appeared in various video games. In the Nintendo DS game, \"Scribblenauts\", in which the player can summon numerous objects to assist in solving puzzles, Keyboard Cat appears as one of several possible Internet memes that can be called up in the game. The timing of the popularity of the Keyboard Cat meme with the 2009 Electronic Entertainment Expo Convention was considered partially responsible for \"Scribblenauts\"' success during the convention. An easter egg in Activision Blizzard's announcement for \"\" reveals the game's antagonist, Deathwing, playing a keyboard with the text \"Keyboard Cataclysm: Play 'em Off, Deathwing\". A teaser video from Ubisoft for its video game \"\", entitled \"Play Him Off, Keyboard Sam\" parodies the Keyboard Cat theme. The Xbox Live Arcade remake of \"Earthworm Jim\" includes additional content, including one boss character inspired by Keyboard Cat. The animated series, \"\" \"Shake Up\" has a reference to Keyboard Cat in Frankie Greene's video, depicted a cat playing a keyboard in a similar manner.\n\nDuring Weezer's 2009 summer tour with Blink-182, Keyboard Cat would play the band off every night at the end of their set.\n\nThe Keyboard Cat was featured in a cinema spot promoting the UK's EE telecom network, and most recently in the 2014 reboot of \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\".\n\nKeyboard Cat also appeared and revealed herself to be a fan of the Carolina Panthers in a National Football League advertisement that first aired during Super Bowl XLIX.\n\nThe Keyboard Cat appeared on one episode of \"Hawaii Five-0\" Season 6 Episode 22.\n\nOn the homepage of the popular online game \"Bin Weevils\", one can get a glimpse of a large television screen at the Drive-In Cinema where a \"bin pet\"-ified Keyboard Cat can be seen.\n\nThe Keyboard Cat meme has been integrated into other memes. An 8-bit version of both the cat and the song have been created. Online clothing vendor Threadless sells a \"Three Keyboard Cat Moon\" T-shirt based on the infamous Three Wolf Moon design; the shirt design was one of the most popular that the company has had, and they have had difficulties in meeting the demand for the shirt. The shirt appeared in a television ad for the release of the PlayStation 3 Slim game console. G4TV's \"Attack of the Show\" held a \"Great American Keyboard Cat Competition\" to give viewers a chance to create their own Keyboard Cat-inspired art, with over one hundred pieces submitted. Several of the top works from this were given to the charity Kitten Rescue to be auctioned off through eBay. The MLB AL East Champion Tampa Bay Rays used a variation known as \"Rays Keyboard Kitty\" (they also had one called \"DJ Kitty\") to rouse the crowd during its late season run, using a similar cat in Rays gear in several segments. On April 1, 2011, YouTube released a video showing the \"Top 5 Viral Pictures of 1911\", including a parody of Keyboard Cat titled \"Flugelhorn Feline\".\n\nThere are also a number of videos in which other music has been substituted in for the original song. For example, at the height of the popularity of the podcast \"Serial\", a YouTube video was released that showed Keyboard Cat \"playing\" the Serial theme song.\n\nIn one example, Keyboard Cat was appended to the end of a segment of \"Desperate Lives\" (1982), a made-for-TV movie starring Helen Hunt showing the effects of drug use (with Keyboard Cat starting after Hunt's character falls out a window and suffers from overdosing); after the video, the submitter then superimposed Keyboard Cat in the music video for Hall & Oates' \"You Make My Dreams\". The music video segment has been jokingly called by some the \"greatest music video ever.\" While the video still exists at YouTube, copyright issues with Warner Music Group have forced YouTube to disable the audio. The move has alerted groups concerned about copyrights and the remix culture to warn about potential limitation of creative expression through such actions.\n\nOn June 21, 2011, Schmidt filed a lawsuit in Seattle Federal Court against Threadless for their 2009 line of Three Keyboard Cat Moon T-shirts, a send up of the then popular Three Wolf Moon meme, due to copyright infringement. Threadless counter-claimed by stating that Schmidt's copyright claim was not approved until September 22, 2010, more than a year after the production of the T-shirts, and that Schmidt had lost his copyright when he asked people to submit videos that paid tribute to Fatso. , this lawsuit has been settled.\n\nIn May 2013, Schmidt and Christopher Torres, the creator of Nyan Cat, jointly sued 5th Cell and Warner Bros. for copyright infringement and trademark infringement over the appearance of these characters without permission in the \"Scribblenauts\" series of video games. Torres and Schmidt have both registered copyrights on their characters and have pending trademark applications on the names. Meme manager Ben Lashes manages them and Grumpy Cat, Scumbag Steve and Ridiculously Photogenic Guy. The suit was settled in September 2013, with Torres and Schmidt being paid for the use of the characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50139402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50139402", "title": "Laura Evangelista Alvarado Cardozo", "text": "Laura Evangelista Alvarado Cardozo\n\nBlessed Laura Evangelista Alvarado Cardozo (25 April 1875 - 2 April 1967) was a Venezuelan Roman Catholic professed religious who had established the Augustinian Recollect Sisters of the Heart of Jesus as a means of aiding the ill. Upon her profession she assumed the religious name of \"María de San José\". During her life she was contemporaries with the Venerable José Gregorio Hernández.\n\nShe was beatified in 1995.\n\nLaura Evangelista Alvarado Cardozo was born on 25 April 1875 as the eldest of four children to Clemente Alvarado (d. 1890) and Margarita Cardozo; her brothers were Octaviano, Panchita and Clemencia. She received Confirmation at the age of two in 1877 from the Archbishop of Caracas José Antonio Ponte. She was baptized on 13 October 1875 and received it from Father Jose Maria Yepez while her godparents were Manuel González and Dolores Bravo Sofia Cardozo - a cousin of hers.\n\nShe commenced her studies in her hometown but was forced to complete it in Maracay when she moved with her parents and siblings. She commenced her studies at the age of five and completed them in September 1892 at the age of seventeen. It was around this time that she felt called to the religious life and confided this to her spiritual director Father Vicente Lopez Aveledo. It was on 8 December 1892 that she made a vow to God to remain a perpetual virgin in His service. At the age of thirteen on 8 December 1888 she received her First Communion and focused on preparing children for the same sacrament from that point until she was eighteen. In 1893 she Father Aveledo's new order devoted to the Blessed Mother. Around that time in 1893 she made a personal resolution: \"I want to be a saint, but a real saint ... my Jesus, You and only You are the goal of all my striving\".\n\nOn 3 November 1893 she began to work in a small hospital and assisted patients that suffered from smallpox. She also volunteered in other hospitals. From 1897 until 1898 she worked as a volunteer in the hospital of San José. Her father died aged 55 of a brain condition in 1890. An earthquake that struck the nation in October 1900 led to her tending to homeless people and those that the disaster impacted. On 11 February 1901 she had the permission of the Archbishop of Caracas Críspulo Uzcátegui to found an order of religious based on the Order of Saint Augustine and devoted to the care of the ill. With three companions she assumed the new habit and commenced her period of novitiate; she was made the Superior of her order and held that position until her resignation in 1960. On 22 January 1902 she made her solemn profession of her vows and assumed the new name of \"María de San José\".\n\nOn 28 September 1903 the statutes of her order received approval and received recognition on 17 September 1927 as being an order of diocesan right and was under the name of the Augustinian Hospitaller Sisters; this name changed to its present name at some future point. At her request - on 10 May 1950 - the order was added to the Order of Augustinian Recollects. The congregation received the papal approval of Pope Pius XII on 15 November 1952.\n\nShe was diagnosed with bronchopneumonia on 2 June 1966 which contributed to her decline in health. Her situation improved around Easter of 1967 though started to decline not long after. Cardozo died of thrombosis on 2 April 1967 at 12:00pm. Her remains were deemed to be incorrupt after their exhumation on 19 January 1994 at 9:00am; her remains were placed in a new sarcophagus in September 1994.\n\nThe beatification process commenced on 10 June 1983 once formal approval - or \"nihil obstat\" (nothing against) - had been granted to the cause. It resulted in the introduction of a diocesan process on 9 October 1983 tasked with compiling evidence attesting to her potential sainthood while also collating documentation pertaining to her life. The process concluded on 13 June 1986 and received the formal ratification of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints on 13 November 1987. This decree affirmed the diocesan process completed its work according to the current standards and would allow for the so-called \"Roman Phase\" to begin in which the C.C.S. would commence their own investigation into the cause.\n\nThe postulation compiled the Positio and submitted it to the C.C.S. in 1990 for their evaluation. It led to Pope John Paul II declaring her to be Venerable on 7 March 1992 after acknowledging that she had lived a life of heroic virtue.\n\nThe miracle needed for her beatification was investigated in its diocese of origin and the process was ratified on 3 April 1992 - it involved the cure of Sister Teresa Silva. John Paul II approved the healing as a credible miracle on 23 December 1993 and beatified her on 7 May 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "102400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102400", "title": "List of kidnappings", "text": "List of kidnappings\n\nThis is a list of kidnappings.\n\nKidnappers interested in getting a large ransom or a political effect often target celebrities or their relatives. Here are some of the people affected by these crimes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36634770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36634770", "title": "Matthäus Abbrederis", "text": "Matthäus Abbrederis\n\nMatthäus Abbrederis (1652 – c. 1725) was an Austrian organist and organ builder. Born in Rankweil, he was baptized on 17 April 1652.\n\nMany of his contemporaries in the Rhine Valley, south of Lake Constance, considered him an outstanding master of organ building. Though influenced by the Baroque style of the 17th century, he was not constrained by the version that flourished in South Germany. Many of his organs still survive, such as the one for the monastery church of Pfäfers, Switzerland, built in 1693.\n"}
{"id": "4283009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4283009", "title": "Mindball", "text": "Mindball\n\nMindball is created by the Swedish developer Interactive Productline IP AB. \n\nThe technique is based on EEG methodology and the basic concept is to move a ball with your mind; Mindball. \n\nMindball can refer to both the Mindball Game and Mindball Play, both are developed and distributed by Interactive Productline IP AB.\n\nThe first classic Mindball Game was delivered 2003. More than 260 tables are now found, primarily at Science Centers, all over the world. An Early Access version of Mindball Play was launched on Steam December 1st, 2016. The full version will be launched 2018.\n\nSimilar games have been developed featuring biofeedback, a concept similar to neurofeedback used by Mindball. In 1974, the game Will Ball was developed featuring a premise similar to Mindball though only using biofeedback.\n\nThe classic Mindball Game is a physical table where the players are sitting opposite to each other wearing wired headbands with sensors that picks up the brain signals. On the table top there is a ball rolling back and forth depending on players level of focus. The player who is most focused and relaxed will have their ball score the opponents goal and win.\n\nThe Mindball Play is a video game created for the consumer market. The full version of the game was launched on Steam (software) July 11th, 2018. \n\nMindball Play is a racing game where players control and compete with their own customized ball.\n\nThere are 15 playable tracks in Mindball Play 1.0. Some tracks focus solely on racing with banked turns and sharp drops, others also contain a number of obstacles like deadly laser beams and puddles of slippery oil.\n\nMindball Play has several different modes of gameplay:\n\n\nMindball Play has several available options for input and can be played with:\n\n\nThe brain sensing headband\n\nThe brain sensing headband measures the players brain waves with EEG technology. \n\nThe more focused the player is, the more control the have over their ball. \n\nThere are two playable options: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55914525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55914525", "title": "Minna Aalto", "text": "Minna Aalto\n\nMinna Aalto (born 8 November 1965) is a Finnish sailor. She competed in multiple sailing events at the 1996 and 2000 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "41825123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41825123", "title": "Molecular paleontology", "text": "Molecular paleontology\n\nMolecular paleontology refers to the recovery and analysis of DNA, proteins, carbohydrates, or lipids, and their diagenetic products from ancient human, animal, and plant remains. The field of molecular paleontology has yielded important insights into evolutionary events, species' diasporas, the discovery and characterization of extinct species. By applying molecular analytical techniques to DNA in fossils, one can quantify the level of relatedness between any two organisms for which DNA has been recovered.\n\nAdvancements in the field of molecular paleontology have allowed scientists to pursue evolutionary questions on a genetic level rather than relying on phenotypic variation alone. Using various biotechnological techniques such as DNA isolation, amplification, and sequencing scientists have been able to gain expanded new insights into the divergence and evolutionary history of countless organisms.\n\nThe study of molecular paleontology is said to have begun with the discovery by Abelson of 360 million year old amino acids preserved in fossil shells. However, Svante Pääbo is often the one considered to be the founder of the field of molecular paleontology.\n\nThe field of molecular paleontology has had several major advances since the 1950s and is a continuously growing field. Below is a timeline showing notable contributions that have been made.\n\nmid-1950s: Abelson found preserved amino acids in fossil shells that were about 360 million years old. Produced idea of comparing fossil amino acid sequences with existing organism so that molecular evolution could be studied.\n\n1970s: Fossil peptides are studied by amino acid analysis. Start to use whole peptides and .\n\nLate 1970s: Palaeobotanists (can also be spelled as Paleobotanists) studied molecules from well-preserved fossil plants.\n\n1984: The first successful DNA sequencing of an extinct species, the quagga, a zebra-like species.\n\n1991: Published article on the successful extraction of proteins from the fossil bone of a dinosaur, specifically the seismosaurus.\n\n2005: Scientists resurrect extinct 1918 influenza virus.\n\n2006: Neanderthals nuclear DNA sequence segments begin to be analyzed and published.\n\n2007: Scientists synthesize entire extinct human endogenous retrovirus (HERV-K) from scratch.\n\n2010: A new species of early hominid, the Denisovans, discovered from mitochondrial and nuclear genomes recovered from bone found in a cave in Siberia. Analysis showed that the Denisovan specimen lived approximately 41,000 years ago, and shared a common ancestor with both modern humans and Neanderthals approximately 1 million years ago in Africa.\n\n2013: The first entire Neanderthal genome is successfully sequenced. More information can be found at the Neanderthal genome project.\n\n2013: A 400,000-year-old specimen with remnant mitochondrial DNA sequenced and is found to be a common ancestor to Neanderthals and Denisovans, later named \"Homo heidelbergensis\".\n\n2015: A 110,000-year-old fossil tooth containing DNA from Denisovans was reported.\n\nThe first successful DNA sequencing of an extinct species was in 1984, from a 150-year-old museum specimen of the quagga, a zebra-like species. Mitochondrial DNA (also known as mtDNA) was sequenced from desiccated muscle of the quagga, and was found to differ by 12 base substitutions from the mitochondrial DNA of a mountain zebra. It was concluded that these two species had a common ancestor 3-4 million years ago, which is consistent with known fossil evidence of the species.\n\nThe Denisovans of Eurasia, a hominid species related to Neanderthals and humans, was discovered as a direct result of DNA sequencing of a 41,000-year-old specimen recovered in 2008. Analysis of the mitochondrial DNA from a retrieved finger bone showed the specimen to be genetically distinct from both humans and Neanderthals. Two teeth and a toe bone were later found to belong to different individuals with the same population. Analysis suggests that both the Neanderthals and Denisovans were already present throughout Eurasia when modern humans arrived. In November 2015, scientists reported finding a fossil tooth containing DNA from Denisovans, and estimated its age at 110,000-years-old.\n\nThe mtDNA from the Denisovan finger bone differs from that of modern humans by 385 bases (nucleotides) in the mtDNA strand out of approximately 16,500, whereas the difference between modern humans and Neanderthals is around 202 bases. In contrast, the difference between chimpanzees and modern humans is approximately 1,462 mtDNA base pairs. This suggested a divergence time around one million years ago. The mtDNA from a tooth bore a high similarity to that of the finger bone, indicating they belonged to the same population. From a second tooth, an mtDNA sequence was recovered that showed an unexpectedly large number of genetic differences compared to that found in the other tooth and the finger, suggesting a high degree of mtDNA diversity. These two individuals from the same cave showed more diversity than seen among sampled Neanderthals from all of Eurasia, and were as different as modern-day humans from different continents.\n\nIsolation and sequencing of nuclear DNA has also been accomplished from the Denisova finger bone. This specimen showed an unusual degree of DNA preservation and low level of contamination. They were able to achieve near-complete genomic sequencing, allowing a detailed comparison with Neanderthal and modern humans. From this analysis, they concluded, in spite of the apparent divergence of their mitochondrial sequence, the Denisova population along with Neanderthal shared a common branch from the lineage leading to modern African humans. The estimated average time of divergence between Denisovan and Neanderthal sequences is 640,000 years ago, and the time between both of these and the sequences of modern Africans is 804,000 years ago. They suggest the divergence of the Denisova mtDNA results either from the persistence of a lineage purged from the other branches of humanity through genetic drift or else an introgression from an older hominin lineage.\n\nHomo heidelbergensis was first discovered in 1907 near Heidelberg, Germany and later also found elsewhere in Europe, Africa, and Asia.\nHowever it was not until 2013 that a specimen with retrievable DNA was found, in a ~400,000 year old femur found in the Sima de los Huesos Cave in Spain. The femur was found to contain both mtDNA and nuclear DNA. Improvements in DNA extraction and library preparation techniques allowed for mtDNA to be successfully isolated and sequenced, however the nuclear DNA was found to be too degraded in the observed specimen, and was also contaminated with DNA from an ancient cave bear (\"Ursus deningeri\") present in the cave. The mtDNA analysis found a surprising link between the specimen and the Denisovans, and this finding raised many questions. Several scenarios were proposed in a January 2014 paper titled \"A mitochondrial genome sequence of a hominin from Sima de los Huesos\", elucidating the lack of convergence in the scientific community on how \"Homo heidelbergensis\" is related to other known hominin groups. One plausible scenario that the authors proposed was that the \"H. heidelbergensis\" was an ancestor to both Denisovans and Neanderthals. Completely sequenced nuclear genomes from both Denisovans and Neanderthals suggest a common ancestor approximately 700,000 years ago, and one leading researcher in the field, Svante Paabo, suggests that perhaps this new hominin group is that early ancestor.\n\nMolecular paleontology techniques applied to fossils have contributed to the discovery and characterization of several new species, including the Denisovans and \"Homo heidelbergensis\". We have been able to better understand the path that humans took as they populated the earth, and what species were present during this diaspora.\n\nIt is now possible to revive extinct species using molecular paleontology techniques. This was first accomplished via cloning in 2003 with the Pyrenean ibex, a type of wild goat that became extinct in 2000. Nuclei from the Pyrenean ibex's cells were injected into goat eggs emptied of their own DNA, and implanted into surrogate goat mothers. The offspring lived only seven minutes after birth, due to defects in its lungs. Other cloned animals have been observed to have similar lung defects.\n\nThere are many species that have gone extinct as a direct result of human activity. Some examples include the dodo, the great auk, the Tasmanian tiger, the Chinese river dolphin, and the passenger pigeon. An extinct species can be revived by using allelic replacement of a closely related species that is still living. By only having to replace a few genes within an organism, instead of having to build the extinct species' genome from scratch, it could be possible to bring back several species in this way, even Neanderthals.\n\nThe ethics surrounding the re-introduction of extinct species are very controversial. Critics of bringing extinct species back to life contend that it would divert limited money and resources from protecting the world's current biodiversity problems. With current extinction rates approximated to be 100 to 1,000 times the background extinction rate, it is feared that a de-extinction program might lessen public concerns over the current mass extinction crisis, if it is believed that these species can simply be brought back to life. As the editors of a Scientific American article on de-extinction pose: Should we bring back the woolly mammoth only to let elephants become extinct in the meantime? The main driving factor for the extinction of most species in this era (post 10,000 BC) is the loss of habitat, and temporarily bringing back an extinct species will not recreate the environment they once inhabited.\n\nProponents of de-extinction, such as George Church, speak of many potential benefits. Reintroducing an extinct keystone species, such as the woolly mammoth, could help re-balance the ecosystems that once depended on them. Some extinct species could create broad benefits for the environments they once inhabited, if returned. For example, woolly mammoths may be able to slow the melting of the Russian and Arctic tundra in several ways such as eating dead grass so that new grass can grow and take root, and periodically breaking up the snow, subjecting the ground below to the arctic air. These techniques could also be used to reintroduce genetic diversity in a threatened species, or even introduce new genes and traits to allow the animals to compete better in a changing environment.\n\nWhen a new potential specimen is found, scientists normally first analyze for cell and tissue preservation using histological techniques, and test the conditions for the survivability of DNA. They will then attempt to isolate a DNA sample using the technique described below, and conduct a PCR amplification of the DNA to increase the amount of DNA available for testing. This amplified DNA is then sequenced. Care is taken to verify that the sequence matches the phylogenetic traits of the organism. When an organism dies, a technique called amino acid dating can be used to age the organism. It inspects the degree of racemization of aspartic acid, leucine, and alanine within the tissue. As time passes, the D/L ratio (where \"D\" and \"L\" are mirror images of each other) increase from 0 to 1. In samples where the D/L ratio of aspartic acid is greater than 0.08, ancient DNA sequences can not be retrieved (as of 1996).\n\nMitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is separate from one's nuclear DNA. It is present in organelles called mitochondria in each cell. Unlike nuclear DNA, which is inherited from both parents and rearranged every generation, an exact copy of mitochondrial DNA gets passed down from mother to her sons and daughters. The benefits of performing DNA analysis with Mitochondrial DNA is that it has a far smaller mutation rate than nuclear DNA, making tracking lineages on the scale of tens of thousands of years much easier. Knowing the base mutation rate for mtDNA, (in humans this rate is also known as the Human mitochondrial molecular clock) one can determine the amount of time any two lineages have been separated. Another advantage of mtDNA is that thousands of copies of it exist in every cell, whereas only two copies of nuclear DNA exist in each cell. All eukaryotes, a group which includes all plants, animals, and fungi, have mtDNA. A disadvantage of mtDNA is that only the maternal line is represented. For example, a child will inherit 1/8 of its DNA from each of its eight great-grandparents, however it will inherit an exact clone of its maternal great-grandmother's mtDNA. This is analogous to a child inheriting only his paternal great-grandfather's last name, and not a mix of all of the eight surnames.\nThere are many things to consider when isolating a substance. First, depending upon what it is and where it is located, there are protocols that must be carried out in order to avoid contamination and further degradation of the sample. Then, handling of the materials is usually done in a physically isolated work area and under specific conditions (i.e. specific Temperature, moisture, etc...) also to avoid contamination and further loss of sample.\n\nOnce the material has been obtained, depending on what it is, there are different ways to isolate and purify it. DNA extraction from fossils is one of the more popular practices and there are different steps that can be taken to get the desired sample. DNA extracted from amber-entombed fossils can be taken from small samples and mixed with different substances, centrifuged, incubated, and centrifuged again. On the other hand, DNA extraction from insects can be done by grinding the sample, mixing it with buffer, and undergoing purification through glass fiber columns. In the end, regardless of how the sample was isolated for these fossils, the DNA isolated must be able to undergo amplification.\n\nThe field of molecular paleontology benefited greatly from the invention of the polymerase chain reaction(PCR), which allows one to make billions of copies of a DNA fragment from just a single preserved copy of the DNA. One of the biggest challenges up until this point was the extreme scarcity of recovered DNA because of degradation of the DNA over time.\n\nDNA sequencing is done to determine the order of nucleotides and genes. There are many different materials from which DNA can be extracted. In animals, the mitochondrial chromosome can be used for molecular study. Chloroplasts can be studied in plants as a primary source of sequence data.\nIn the end, the sequences generated are used to build evolutionary trees. Methods to match data sets include: maximum probability, minimum evolution (also known as neighbor-joining) which searches for the tree with shortest overall length, and the maximum parsimony method which finds the tree requiring the fewest character-state changes. The groups of species defined within a tree can also be later evaluated by statistical tests, such as the bootstrap method, to see if they are indeed significant.\nIdeal environmental conditions for preserving DNA where the organism was desiccated and uncovered are difficult to come by, as well as maintaining their condition until analysis. Nuclear DNA normally degrades rapidly after death by endogenous hydrolytic processes, by UV radiation, and other environmental stressors.\n\nAlso, interactions with the organic breakdown products of surrounding soil have been found to help preserve biomolecular materials. However, they have also created the additional challenge of being able to separate the various components in order to be able to conduct the proper analysis on them. Some of these breakdowns have also been found to interfere with the action of some of the enzymes used during PCR.\n\nFinally, one of the largest challenge in extracting ancient DNA, particularly in ancient human DNA, is in contamination during PCR. Small amounts of human DNA can contaminate the reagents used for extraction and PCR of ancient DNA. These problems can be overcome by rigorous care in the handling of all solutions as well as the glassware and other tools used in the process. It can also help if only one person performs the extractions, to minimize different types of DNA present.\n"}
{"id": "1260584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1260584", "title": "Moon tree", "text": "Moon tree\n\nMoon trees are trees grown from 500 seeds taken into orbit around the Moon by Stuart Roosa during the Apollo 14 mission in 1971. As the Command Module Pilot on the Apollo 14 mission, and as he had been a smoke jumper, Roosa was contacted by Ed Cliff, who was the Chief of the Forest Service at the time, and who proposed the idea of taking the seeds along. Seeds for the experiment were chosen from five different types of trees: loblolly pine, sycamore, sweetgum, redwood, and Douglas fir.\n\nThe seeds orbited the moon, but were not landed on it.\n\nAfter the flight the seeds were sent to the southern Forest Service station in Gulfport, Mississippi, and to the western station in Placerville, California, with the intent to germinate them. Nearly all the seeds germinated successfully, and the Forest Service had some 420 seedlings after a few years. Some of these were planted alongside their earth-bound counterparts, which were specifically set aside as controls. After over forty years there is no discernible difference between the two classes of trees. Most of the \"Moon trees\" were given away in 1975 and 1976 to many state forestry organizations, in order to be planted as part of the nation's bicentennial celebration. Since the trees were all of southern or western species, not all states received trees. A Loblolly Pine was planted at the White House, and trees were planted in Brazil, Switzerland, and presented to Emperor Hirohito, among others.\nAn asterisk (*) denotes a tree that is no longer alive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7491994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7491994", "title": "Paracoccus denitrificans", "text": "Paracoccus denitrificans\n\nParacoccus denitrificans, is a coccoid bacterium known for its nitrate reducing properties, its ability to replicate under conditions of hypergravity and for being a relative of the eukaryotic mitochondrion (endosymbiotic theory).\n\n\"Paracoccus denitrificans\", is a gram-negative, coccus, non-motile, denitrifying (nitrate-reducing) bacterium. It is typically a rod-shaped bacterium but assumes spherical shapes during the stationary phase. Like all gram-negative bacteria, it has a double membrane with a cell wall. Formerly known as \"Micrococcus denitrificans\", it was first isolated in 1910 by Martinus Beijerinck, a Dutch microbiologist. The bacterium was reclassified in 1969 to \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" by D.H. Davis. The genome of \"P. denitrificans\" was sequenced in 2004.\n\nMetabolically \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" is very flexible and has been recorded in soil in both aerobic or anaerobic environments. The microbe also has the ability to live in many different kinds of media and environments and is known to be an extremophile. The bacteria are able to obtain energy both from organic compounds, such as methanol and methylamine, and from inorganic compounds, such as hydrogen and sulfur. The ability to metabolise compounds of hydrogen and sulfur, such as thiosulfate has led to the microbe being exploited as a model organism for the study of poorly characterized sulfur compound transformations.\n\nThe denitrification properties of \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" are an important cause for the loss of nitrogen fertilisers in agricultural soil. This is possible due to the chemical process called \"denitrification\" in which nitrogen is converted to dinitrogen to produce nitric oxide and nitrous oxide which cause damage to the atmosphere.\n\nMetabolically, \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" is a known chemolithoautotroph - several strains of the microbe have been isolated that grow chemolithoautotrophically using carbon disulfide or carbonyl sulfide as energy sources. It is not a known human pathogen.\n\n\"Paracoccus\" is a biochemically versatile genus, possessing a variety of metabolisms through which a wide range of diverse compounds can be degraded. Accordingly, it has the potential for a wide variety of capabilities and applications in bioremediation.\n\nThe denitrifying property of \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" has been used in creating a bioreactor, in this case, a tubular gel containing two bacteria, for the removal of nitrogen from wastewater. Paracoccus denitrificans reduces nitrite to nitrogen gas while \"Nitrosomonas europaea\" oxidizes ammonia to nitrite, thus fueling the former metabolism. This system simplifies the process of removing nitrogen from wastewater.\n\nCertain strains of the microbe can utilize thiocyanate as an energy source, a capability which could help clean thiocyanate-contaminated wastewater from coke-oven factories. Other strains have been discovered that can degrade halobenzoates under anaerobic denitrifying conditions, and that can degrade sulfonates under anaerobic growth conditions.\n\nStrains of \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" have been isolated from activated sludge that degrade a variety of methylated amines under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions; another strain is chemolithoautotrophically capable of degrading quaternary carbon compounds such as dimethylmalonate under denitrifying conditions.\nSome strains are capable of 'aerobic denitrification', the complete dissimilation of nitrate to dinitrogen (or nitrous oxide) under aerobic growth conditions. The microbe also can oxidize ammonia to nitrite while growth on organic energy sources, a process known as 'heterotrophic nitrification'. Coupled to denitrification, heterotrophic nitrification allows for the complete transformation of ammonia to dinitrogen by a single organism.\n\nEarly research indicated that \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" especially resembled mitochondria. The bacteria encloses within itself the biochemistry of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and oxidative phosphorylation. While these features are found randomly distributed in other species of aerobic bacteria, to date all of these are only found in \"Paracoccus denitrificans\". In addition, a feasible mechanism for the evolution of a eukaryotic mitochondrion, from the plasma membrane of an ancestral aerobic bacterium resembling \"P. denitrificans\" to the inner mitochondrial membrane, has been suggested. More recent phylogenetic analysis however puts other bacteria more closely related to mitochrondria: see Proto-mitochondrion.\n\nRecent research carried out on extremophiles in Japan involved a variety of bacteria including \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" being subject to conditions of extreme gravity. The bacteria were cultivated while being rotated in an ultracentrifuge at high speeds corresponding to 403,627 times \"g\" (the normal acceleration resulting from gravity at the Earth's surface). \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" displayed not only survival but also robust cellular growth under these conditions of hyperaccelaration which are usually found only in cosmic environments, such as on very massive stars or in the shock waves of supernovas. Analysis showed that the small size of prokaryotic cells is essential for successful growth under hypergravity. The research has implications on the feasibility of the existence of exobacteria and panspermia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58054935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58054935", "title": "Patricia Teherán Romero", "text": "Patricia Teherán Romero\n\nPatricia Teherán Romero (10 June 1969 Cartagena de Indias - 19 January 1995 Loma de Arena) was a Colombian singer and composer, considered the most important female vocalist in the history of vallenato.\n\nIn 1988, she was discovered by Graciela Ceballos, who invited her to be part of a new musical project consisting only of women, which became known as Las Musas del Vallenato, with whom she recorded three LPs. The latest work, called \"Explosivas y Sexys\", marked the end of her collaboration with Las Musas and the beginning of a new project called Las Diosas del Vallenato.\n\nPatricia Teherán composed her first song titled \"Dueño de mi pasión\" for the album \"Con aroma de mujer.\"\n\nThe artist was driving her car from Barranquilla to Cartagena after signing the participation of the Goddesses of Vallenato in the Carnival of Barranquilla, when at 4:30 in the afternoon, at Loma de Arena one of the tires exploded and the vehicle moving at high speed lost control, resulting in the vehicle overturning.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20811122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20811122", "title": "PowerLab", "text": "PowerLab\n\nPowerLab (before 1998 was referred to as MacLab) is a data acquisition system developed by ADInstruments comprising hardware and software and designed for use in life science research and teaching applications. It is commonly used in physiology, pharmacology, biomedical engineering, sports/exercise studies and psychophysiology laboratories to record and analyse physiological signals from human or animal subjects or from isolated organs. The system consists of an input device connected to a Microsoft Windows or Mac OS computer using a USB cable and LabChart software which is supplied with the PowerLab and provides the recording, display and analysis functions. The use of PowerLab and supplementary ADInstruments products have been demonstrated on the Journal of Visualised Experiments.\n\nThe original MacLab unit was developed in the late 1980s to run with only Macintosh computers to perform computer-based data acquisition and analysis. The MacLab product range was renamed \"PowerLab\" in 1997 to reflect the cross-platform nature of the system.\n\nThe PowerLab system is essentially a peripheral device designed to perform various functions needed for data acquisition, signal conditioning and pre-processing. Versatile display options and analysis functions are complemented by the ability to export data to other software (such as Microsoft Excel).\n\n\n\n\nFormerly known as Chart. The software functions like a traditional multi-channel chart recorder, XY plotter, polygraph and digital voltmeter. It is compatible with both Windows and Macintosh operating systems. The software has hardware settings control, performs analysis in real-time and offline without the loss of raw data, procedure automation via editable macros, and multiple block samplings for the recording and settings of different signals within one file. Large specialised add-ons called Modules provide data acquisition and analysis features for specific applications such as ECG, blood pressure, cardiac output, HRV etc. Smaller software plugins provide additional and specialized functionality to LabChart. Extensions perform functions such as file translations into other formats (including PVAN and Igor Pro) and specialist analysis functions (for specific research areas such as spirometry and ventricular pressure). The last version of LabChart6 (version 6.1.3) was released on January 2009.\n\nIn April 2009, LabChart 7 was released and incorporates the features of a multi-channel digital oscilloscope that allows recording and averaging of up to sixteen signals in real time. Latest version of LabChart7 is version 7.0.\n\nLabChart 8 is also now available.\n\nSoftware provides a range of hands-on laboratory background for students that includes experimental background & protocols, data acquisition & analysis, and report generation within one interface. The software and accompanying PowerLab hardware is configured for immediate use with step by step instructions designed to maximize student productivity by applying independent learning techniques to a suite of human and animal physiological experiments. Recently, LabAuthor software was released to provide educators the ability to design or edit existing LabTutor experiments and tailor the experiments to suit their practical classes without the need of programming or html skills.\n\nRecords and analyzes high frequency signals that are time-locked to a stimulus. The display allows computer screen to act as an oscilloscope and XY plotter\n\nThe PowerLab messaging protocol is not publicly available and there is no public API for traditional programming languages such as C.\n"}
{"id": "1864505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864505", "title": "Preta", "text": "Preta\n\nPreta (Sanskrit: प्रेत), also known as hungry ghost, is the Sanskrit name for a type of supernatural being described in Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, and Chinese and Vietnamese folk religion as undergoing suffering greater than that of humans, particularly an extreme level of hunger and thirst. They have their origins in Indian religions and have been adopted into East Asian religions via the spread of Buddhism. Preta is often translated into English as \"hungry ghost\" from the Chinese adaptation. In early sources such as the \"Petavatthu\", they are much more varied. The descriptions below apply mainly in this narrower context.\n\nPretas are believed to have been false, corrupted, compulsive, deceitful, jealous or greedy people in a previous life. As a result of their karma, they are afflicted with an insatiable hunger for a particular substance or object. Traditionally, this is something repugnant or humiliating, such as cadavers or feces, though in more recent stories, it can be anything, however bizarre.\n\nThrough the belief and influence of Hinduism and Buddhism in much of Asia, \"preta\" figure prominently in the cultures of India, Sri Lanka, China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam, Tibet, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar.\n\nThe Sanskrit term \"preta\" means \"departed, deceased, a dead person\", from \"pra-ita\", literally \"gone forth, departed\".\nIn Classical Sanskrit, the term refers to the spirit of any dead person, but especially before the obsequial rites are performed, \nbut also more narrowly to a ghost or evil being.\nThe Sanskrit term was taken up in Buddhism to describe one of six possible states of rebirth.\nThe Chinese term \"egui\" (餓鬼), literally \"starving ghost\", is thus not a literal translation of the Sanskrit term.\n\nPretas are invisible to the human eye, but some believe they can be discerned by humans in certain mental states. They are described as human-like, but with sunken, mummified skin, narrow limbs, enormously distended bellies and long, thin necks. This appearance is a metaphor for their mental situation: they have enormous appetites, signified by their gigantic bellies, but a very limited ability to satisfy those appetites, symbolized by their slender necks. \n\nPretas are often depicted in Japanese art (particularly that from the Heian period) as emaciated human beings with bulging stomachs and inhumanly small mouths and throats. They are frequently shown licking up spilled water in temples or accompanied by demons representing their personal agony. Otherwise they may be shown as balls of smoke or fire. \n\nPretas dwell in the waste and desert places of the earth, and vary in situation according to their past karma. Some of them can eat a little, but find it very difficult to find food or drink. Others can find food and drink, but find it very difficult to swallow. Others find that the food they eat seems to burst into flames as they swallow it. Others see something edible or drinkable and desire it but it withers or dries up before their eyes. As a result, they are always hungry. \n\nIn addition to hunger, pretas suffer from immoderate heat and cold; they find that even the moon scorches them in the summer, while the sun freezes them in the winter.\n\nThe sufferings of the pretas often resemble those of the dwellers in hell, and the two types of being are easily confused. The simplest distinction is that beings in hell are confined to their subterranean world, while pretas are free to move about.\n\nPretas are generally seen as little more than nuisances to mortals unless their longing is directed toward something vital, such as blood. However, in some traditions, pretas try to prevent others from satisfying their own desires by means of magic, illusions, or disguises. They can also turn invisible or change their faces to frighten mortals.\n\nGenerally, however, pretas are seen as beings to be pitied. Thus, in some Buddhist monasteries, monks leave offerings of food, money, or flowers to them before meals.\n\nIn Japan, preta is translated as \"gaki\" (, \"hungry ghost\"), a borrowing from Middle Chinese \"nga kjwɨj\" (, \"hungry ghost\"). \n\nSince 657, some Japanese Buddhists have observed a special day in mid-August to remember the \"gaki\". Through such offerings and remembrances (\"segaki\"), it is believed that the hungry ghosts may be released from their torment.\n\nIn the modern Japanese language, the word \"gaki\" is often used to mean spoiled child, or brat. In a game of tag, the person who is \"it\" may be known as the \"gaki\".\n\nIn Hinduism Pretas are very real beings. They are a form, a body consisting only of air and Akasha (Sky or Dark matter or space), two of the five elements which constitutes a body on Earth or any other planet - i.e. Air, Water, Dark Matter (Space), Fire and Earth. There are other forms as per the ‘Karma’ or ‘actions’ of previous lives where a soul takes birth in bodies resembling human forms or forms of the main intelligent entity in a planet, but with a unique difference that is absent of one to three elements. In Hinduism an Atma or Soul is bound to take rebirth after death in a body composed of five or more elements. A soul in transient mode is pure and its existence is comparable to that of a Deva (divine being) but in the last form of physical birth. The elements except Akasha or Sky or Dark matter as defined is the common constituent throughout the Universe and the remaining four are common to the properties of the planets or stars or places of birth. This is the reason that Pretas cannot eat or drink as the rest of the three elements (Earth, Fire, and Water) are missing hence no digestion or physical intake is possible for them. \n\nIn Thailand, \"pret\" () are hungry ghosts of the Buddhist tradition that have become part of the Thai folklore, but are described as being abnormally tall.\n\nIn Sri Lankan culture, like in other Asian cultures, people are reborn as \"preta\" (\"peréthaya\") if they desired too much in their life where their large stomachs can never be fulfilled because they have a small mouth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24269", "title": "Process philosophy", "text": "Process philosophy\n\nProcess philosophy — also ontology of becoming, processism, or philosophy of organism — identifies metaphysical reality with change. In opposition to the classical model of change as illusory (as argued by Parmenides) or accidental (as argued by Aristotle), process philosophy regards change as the cornerstone of reality—the cornerstone of being thought of as becoming.\n\nSince the time of Plato and Aristotle, philosophers have posited true reality as \"timeless\", based on permanent substances, while processes are denied or subordinated to timeless substances. If Socrates changes, becoming sick, Socrates is still the same (the substance of Socrates being the same), and change (his sickness) only glides over his substance: change is accidental, whereas the substance is essential. Therefore, classic ontology denies any full reality to change, which is conceived as only accidental and not essential. This classical ontology is what made knowledge and a theory of knowledge possible, as it was thought that a science of something in becoming was an impossible feat to achieve.\n\nPhilosophers who appeal to process rather than substance include Heraclitus, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche, Henri Bergson, Martin Heidegger, Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, Alfred North Whitehead, Alfred Korzybski, R. G. Collingwood, Alan Watts, Robert M. Pirsig, Charles Hartshorne, Arran Gare, Nicholas Rescher, Colin Wilson, Jacques Derrida, and Gilles Deleuze. In physics, Ilya Prigogine distinguishes between the \"physics of being\" and the \"physics of becoming\". Process philosophy covers not just scientific intuitions and experiences, but can be used as a conceptual bridge to facilitate discussions among religion, philosophy, and science.\n\nProcess philosophy is sometimes classified as closer to Continental philosophy than analytic philosophy, because it is usually only taught in Continental departments. However, other sources state that process philosophy should be placed somewhere in the middle between the poles of analytic versus Continental methods in contemporary philosophy.\n\nHeraclitus proclaimed that the basic nature of all things is change.\n\nThe quotation from Heraclitus appears in Plato's \"Cratylus\" twice; in 401d as:\n\"Ta onta ienai te panta kai menein ouden\"\"All entities move and nothing remains still\"and in 402a\n\n\"Panta chōrei kai ouden menei kai dis es ton auton potamon ouk an embaies\"\n\"Everything changes and nothing remains still ... and ... you cannot step twice into the same stream\"\n\nHeraclitus considered fire as the most fundamental element.\n\n\"All things are an interchange for fire, and fire for all things, just like goods for gold and gold for goods.\"\n\nThe following is an interpretation of Heraclitus's concepts into modern terms by Nicholas Rescher.\n\n\"...reality is not a constellation of things at all, but one of processes. The fundamental \"stuff\" of the world is not material substance, but volatile flux, namely \"fire\", and all things are versions thereof (puros tropai). Process is fundamental: the river is not an object, but a continuing flow; the sun is not a thing, but an enduring fire. Everything is a matter of process, of activity, of change (panta rhei).\"\n\nAn early expression of this viewpoint is in Heraclitus's fragments. He posits strife, \"ἡ ἔρις\" (strife, conflict), as the underlying basis of all reality defined by change. The balance and opposition in strife were the foundations of change and stability in the flux of existence.\n\nIn early twentieth century, the philosophy of mathematics was undertaken to develop mathematics as an airtight, axiomatic system in which every truth could be derived logically from a set of axioms. In the foundations of mathematics, this project is variously understood as logicism or as part of the formalist program of David Hilbert. Alfred North Whitehead and Bertrand Russell attempted to complete, or at least facilitate, this program with their seminal book Principia Mathematica, which purported to build a logically consistent set theory on which to found mathematics. After this, Whitehead extended his interest to natural science, which he held needed a deeper philosophical basis. He intuited that natural science was struggling to overcome a traditional ontology of timeless material substances that does not suit natural phenomena. According to Whitehead, material is more properly understood as 'process'. In 1929, he produced the most famous work of process philosophy, \"Process and Reality\", continuing the work begun by Hegel but describing a more complex and fluid dynamic ontology.\n\nProcess thought describes truth as \"movement\" in and through substance (Hegelian truth), rather than substances as fixed concepts or \"things\" (Aristotelian truth). Since Whitehead, process thought is distinguished from Hegel in that it describes entities that arise or coalesce in \"becoming\", rather than being simply dialectically determined from prior posited determinates. These entities are referred to as \"complexes of occasions of experience\". It is also distinguished in being not necessarily conflictual or oppositional in operation. Process may be integrative, destructive or both together, allowing for aspects of interdependence, influence, and confluence, and addressing coherence in universal as well as particular developments, i.e., those aspects not befitting Hegel's system. Additionally, instances of determinate occasions of experience, while always ephemeral, are nonetheless seen as important to define the type and continuity of those occasions of experience that flow from or relate to them.\n\nAlfred North Whitehead began teaching and writing on process and metaphysics when he joined Harvard University in 1924.\n\nIn his book \"Science and the Modern World\" (1925), Whitehead noted that the human intuitions and experiences of science, aesthetics, ethics, and religion influence the worldview of a community, but that in the last several centuries science dominates Western culture. Whitehead sought a holistic, comprehensive cosmology that provides a systematic descriptive theory of the world which can be used for the diverse human intuitions gained through ethical, aesthetic, religious, and scientific experiences, and not just the scientific.\n\nWhitehead's influences were not restricted to philosophers or physicists or mathematicians. He was influenced by the French philosopher Henri Bergson (1859–1941), whom he credits along with William James and John Dewey in the preface to \"Process and Reality\".\n\nFor Whitehead, metaphysics is about logical frameworks for the conduct of discussions of the character of the world. It is not directly and immediately about facts of nature, but only indirectly so, in that its task is to explicitly formulate the language and conceptual presuppositions that are used to describe the facts of nature. Whitehead thinks that discovery of previously unknown facts of nature can in principle call for reconstruction of metaphysics.\n\nThe process metaphysics elaborated in \"Process and Reality\" posits an ontology which is based on the two kinds of existence of entity, that of actual entity and that of abstract entity or abstraction, also called 'object'.\n\nActual entity is a term coined by Whitehead to refer to the entities that really exist in the natural world. For Whitehead, actual entities are spatiotemporally extended events or processes. An actual entity is how something is happening, and how its happening is related to other actual entities. The actually existing world is a multiplicity of actual entities overlapping one another.\n\nThe ultimate abstract principle of actual existence for Whitehead is creativity. Creativity is a term coined by Whitehead to show a power in the world that allows the presence of an actual entity, a new actual entity, and multiple actual entities. Creativity is the principle of novelty. It is manifest in what can be called 'singular causality'. This term may be contrasted with the term 'nomic causality'. An example of singular causation is that I woke this morning because my alarm clock rang. An example of nomic causation is that alarm clocks generally wake people in the morning. Aristotle recognizes singular causality as efficient causality. For Whitehead, there are many contributory singular causes for an event. A further contributory singular cause of my being awoken by my alarm clock this morning was that I was lying asleep near it till it rang.\n\nAn actual entity is a general philosophical term for an utterly determinate and completely concrete individual particular of the actually existing world or universe of considered in terms of singular causality, about which categorical statements can be made. Whitehead's most far-reaching and radical contribution to metaphysics is his invention of a better way of choosing the actual entities. Whitehead chooses a way of defining the actual entities that makes them all alike, \"qua\" actual entities, with a single exception.\n\nFor example, for Aristotle, the actual entities were the substances, such as Socrates. Besides Aristotle's ontology of substances, another example of an ontology that posits actual entities is in the monads of Leibniz, which are said to be 'windowless'.\n\nFor Whitehead's ontology of processes as defining the world, the actual entities exist as the only fundamental elements of reality.\n\nThe actual entities are of two kinds, temporal and atemporal.\n\nWith one exception, all actual entities for Whitehead are temporal and are occasions of experience (which are not to be confused with consciousness). An entity that people commonly think of as a simple concrete object, or that Aristotle would think of as a substance, is, in this ontology, considered to be a temporally serial composite of indefinitely many overlapping occasions of experience. A human being is thus composed of indefinitely many occasions of experience.\n\nThe one exceptional actual entity is at once both temporal and atemporal: God. He is objectively immortal, as well as being immanent in the world. He is objectified in each temporal actual entity; but He is not an eternal object.\n\nThe occasions of experience are of four grades. The first grade comprises processes in a physical vacuum such as the propagation of an electromagnetic wave or gravitational influence across empty space. The occasions of experience of the second grade involve just inanimate matter; \"matter\" being the composite overlapping of occasions of experience from the previous grade. The occasions of experience of the third grade involve living organisms. Occasions of experience of the fourth grade involve experience in the mode of presentational immediacy, which means more or less what are often called the qualia of subjective experience. So far as we know, experience in the mode of presentational immediacy occurs in only more evolved animals. That some occasions of experience involve experience in the mode of presentational immediacy is the one and only reason why Whitehead makes the occasions of experience his actual entities; for the actual entities must be of the ultimately general kind. Consequently, it is inessential that an occasion of experience have an aspect in the mode of presentational immediacy; occasions of the grades one, two, and three, lack that aspect.\n\nThere is no mind-matter duality in this ontology, because \"mind\" is simply seen as an abstraction from an occasion of experience which has also a material aspect, which is of course simply another abstraction from it; thus the mental aspect and the material aspect are abstractions from one and the same concrete occasion of experience. The brain is part of the body, both being abstractions of a kind known as \"persistent physical objects\", neither being actual entities. Though not recognized by Aristotle, there is biological evidence, written about by Galen, that the human brain is an essential seat of human experience in the mode of presentational immediacy. We may say that the brain has a material and a mental aspect, all three being abstractions from their indefinitely many constitutive occasions of experience, which are actual entities.\n\nInherent in each actual entity is its respective dimension of time. Potentially, each Whiteheadean occasion of experience is causally consequential on every other occasion of experience that precedes it in time, and has as its causal consequences every other occasion of experience that follows it in time; thus it has been said that Whitehead's occasions of experience are 'all window', in contrast to Leibniz's 'windowless' monads. In time defined relative to it, each occasion of experience is causally influenced by prior occasions of experiences, and causally influences future occasions of experience. An occasion of experience consists of a process of prehending other occasions of experience, reacting to them. This is the process in process philosophy.\n\nSuch process is never deterministic. Consequently, free will is essential and inherent to the universe.\n\nThe causal outcomes obey the usual well-respected rule that the causes precede the effects in time. Some pairs of processes cannot be connected by cause-and-effect relations, and they are said to be spatially separated. This is in perfect agreement with the viewpoint of the Einstein theory of special relativity and with the Minkowski geometry of spacetime. It is clear that Whitehead respected these ideas, as may be seen for example in his 1919 book \"An Enquiry concerning the Principles of Natural Knowledge\" as well as in \"Process and Reality\". Time in this view is relative to an inertial reference frame, different reference frames defining different versions of time.\n\nThe actual entities, the occasions of experience, are logically atomic in the sense that an occasion of experience cannot be cut and separated into two other occasions of experience. This kind of logical atomicity is perfectly compatible with indefinitely many spatio-temporal overlaps of occasions of experience. One can explain this kind of atomicity by saying that an occasion of experience has an internal causal structure that could not be reproduced in each of the two complementary sections into which it might be cut. Nevertheless, an actual entity can completely contain each of indefinitely many other actual entities.\n\nAnother aspect of the atomicity of occasions of experience is that they do not change. An actual entity is what it is. An occasion of experience can be described as a process of change, but it is itself unchangeable.\n\nThe reader should bear in mind that the atomicity of the actual entities is of a simply logical or philosophical kind, thoroughly different in concept from the natural kind of atomicity that describes the atoms of physics and chemistry.\n\nWhitehead's theory of extension was concerned with the spatio-temporal features of his occasions of experience. Fundamental to both Newtonian and to quantum theoretical mechanics is the concept of velocity. The measurement of a velocity requires a finite spatiotemporal extent. Because it has no finite spatiotemporal extent, a single point of Minkowski space cannot be an occasion of experience, but is an abstraction from an infinite set of overlapping or contained occasions of experience, as explained in \"Process and Reality\". Though the occasions of experience are atomic, they are not necessarily separate in extension, spatiotemporally, from one another. Indefinitely many occasions of experience can overlap in Minkowski space.\n\nNexus is a term coined by Whitehead to show the network actual entity from universe. In the universe of actual entities spread actual entity. Actual entities are clashing with each other and form other actual entities. The birth of an actual entity based on an actual entity, actual entities around him referred to as nexus.\n\nAn example of a nexus of temporally overlapping occasions of experience is what Whitehead calls an enduring physical object, which corresponds closely with an Aristotelian substance. An enduring physical object has a temporally earliest and a temporally last member. Every member (apart from the earliest) of such a nexus is a causal consequence of the earliest member of the nexus, and every member (apart from the last) of such a nexus is a causal antecedent of the last member of the nexus. There are indefinitely many other causal antecedents and consequences of the enduring physical object, which overlap, but are not members, of the nexus. No member of the nexus is spatially separate from any other member. Within the nexus are indefinitely many continuous streams of overlapping nexūs, each stream including the earliest and the last member of the enduring physical object. Thus an enduring physical object, like an Aristotelian substance, undergoes changes and adventures during the course of its existence.\n\nIn some contexts, especially in the theory of relativity in physics, the word 'event' refers to a single point in Minkowski or in Riemannian space-time. A point event is not a process in the sense of Whitehead's metaphysics. Neither is a countable sequence or array of points. A Whiteheadian process is most importantly characterized by extension in space-time, marked by a continuum of uncountably many points in a Minkowski or a Riemannian space-time. The word 'event', indicating a Whiteheadian actual entity, is not being used in the sense of a point event.\n\nWhitehead's abstractions are conceptual entities that are abstracted from or derived from and founded upon his actual entities. Abstractions are themselves not actual entities. They are the only entities that can be real but are not actual entities. This statement is one form of Whitehead's 'ontological principle'.\n\nAn abstraction is a conceptual entity that refers to more than one single actual entity. Whitehead's ontology refers to importantly structured collections of actual entities as nexuses of actual entities. Collection of actual entities into a nexus emphasizes some aspect of those entities, and that emphasis is an abstraction, because it means that some aspects of the actual entities are emphasized or dragged away from their actuality, while other aspects are de-emphasized or left out or left behind.\n\n'Eternal object' is a term coined by Whitehead. It is an abstraction, a possibility, or pure potential. It can be ingredient into some actual entity. It is a principle that can give a particular form to an actual entity.\n\nWhitehead admitted indefinitely many eternal objects. An example of an eternal object is a number, such as the number 'two'. Whitehead held that eternal objects are abstractions of a very high degree of abstraction. Many abstractions, including eternal objects, are potential ingredients of processes.\n\nFor Whitehead, besides its temporal generation by the actual entities which are its contributory causes, a process may be considered as a concrescence of abstract ingredient eternal objects. God enters into every temporal actual entity.\n\nWhitehead's ontological principle is that whatever reality pertains to an abstraction is derived from the actual entities upon which it is founded or of which it is comprised.\n\nConcrescence is a term coined by Whitehead to show the process of jointly forming an actual entity that was without form, but about to manifest itself into an entity Actual full (\"satisfaction\") based on datums or for information on the universe. The process of forming an actual entity is the case based on the existing datums. Concretion process can be regarded as \"subjectification process.\"\n\nDatum is a term coined by Whitehead to show the different variants of information possessed by actual entity. In process philosophy, datum is obtained through the events of concrescence. Every actual entity has a variety of datum.\n\nWhitehead is not an idealist in the strict sense. Whitehead's thought may be regarded as related to the idea of panpsychism (also known as panexperientialism, because of Whitehead's emphasis on experience).\n\nWhitehead's philosophy is very complex, subtle and nuanced and in order to comprehend his thinking regarding what is commonly referred to by many religions as \"God\", it is recommended that one read from \"Process and Reality Corrected Edition\", wherein regarding \"God\" the authors elaborate Whitehead's conception.\n\"He is the unconditioned actuality of conceptual feeling at the base of things; so that by reason of this primordial actuality, there is an order in the relevance of eternal objects to the process of creation (343 of 413) (Location 7624 of 9706 Kindle ed.) Whitehead continues later with, \"The particularities of the actual world presuppose it ; while it merely presupposes the general metaphysical character of creative advance, of which it is the primordial exemplification (344 of 413) (Location 7634 of 9706 Kindle Edition).\" \n\nProcess philosophy, might be considered according to some theistic forms of religion to give a God a special place in the universe of occasions of experience. Regarding Whitehead's use of the term, \"occasions\" in reference to, \"God\" it is explained in \"Process and Reality Corrected Edition\" that \"'Actual entities'-also termed 'actual occasions'-are the final real things of which the world is made up. There is no going behind actual entities to find anything [28] more real. They differ among themselves: God is an actual entity, and so is the most trivial puff of existence in far-off empty space. But, though there are gradations of importance, and diversities of function, yet in the principles which actuality exemplifies all are on the same level. The final facts are, all alike, actual entities; and these actual entities are drops of experience, complex and interdependent.\n\nIt can be also be assumed within some forms of theology that a God encompasses all the other occasions of experience but also transcends them and this might lead to it being argued that Whitehead endorses some form of panentheism. Since, it is argued theologically, that \"free will\" is inherent to the nature of the universe, Whitehead's God is not omnipotent in Whitehead's metaphysics. God's role is to offer enhanced occasions of experience. God participates in the evolution of the universe by offering possibilities, which may be accepted or rejected. Whitehead's thinking here has given rise to process theology, whose prominent advocates include Charles Hartshorne, John B. Cobb, Jr., and Hans Jonas, who was also influenced by the non-theological philosopher Martin Heidegger. However, other process philosophers have questioned Whitehead's theology, seeing it as a regressive Platonism.\n\nWhitehead enumerated three essential \"natures of God\". The \"primordial\" nature of God consists of all potentialities of existence for actual occasions, which Whitehead dubbed eternal objects. God can offer possibilities by ordering the relevance of eternal objects. The \"consequent\" nature of God prehends everything that happens in reality. As such, God experiences all of reality in a sentient manner. The last nature is the \"superjective\". This is the way in which God's synthesis becomes a sense-datum for other actual entities. In some sense, God is prehended by existing actual entities.\n\nIn plant morphology, Rolf Sattler developed a process morphology (dynamic morphology) that overcomes the structure/process (or structure/function) dualism that is commonly taken for granted in biology. According to process morphology, structures such as leaves of plants do not have processes, they \"are\" processes.\n\nIn evolution and in development, the nature of the changes of biological objects are considered by many authors to be more radical than in physical systems. In biology, changes are not just changes of state in a pre-given space, instead the space and more generally the mathematical structures required to understand object change over time.\n\nWith its perspective that everything is interconnected, that all life has value, and that non-human entities are also experiencing subjects, process philosophy has played an important role in discourse on ecology and sustainability. The first book to connect process philosophy with environmental ethics was John B. Cobb, Jr.'s 1971 work, \"Is It Too Late: A Theology of Ecology\". In a more recent book (2018) edited by John B. Cobb, Jr. and Wm. Andrew Schwartz, \"Putting Philosophy to Work: Toward an Ecological Civilization\" contributors explicitly explore the ways in which process philosophy can be put to work to address the most urgent issues facing our world today, by contributing to a transition toward an ecological civilization. That book emerged out of the largest international conference held on the theme of ecological civilization (\"Seizing an Alternative: Toward an Ecological Civilization\") which was organized by the Center for Process Studies in June 2015. The conference brought together roughly 2,000 participants from around the world and featured such leaders in the environmental movement as Bill McKibben, Vandana Shiva, John B. Cobb, Jr., Wes Jackson, and Sheri Liao. The notion of ecological civilization is often affiliated with the process philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead--especially in China.\n\nIn the philosophy of mathematics, some of Whitehead's ideas re-emerged in combination with cognitivism as the cognitive science of mathematics and embodied mind theses.\n\nSomewhat earlier, exploration of mathematical practice and quasi-empiricism in mathematics from the 1950s to 1980s had sought alternatives to metamathematics in social behaviours around mathematics itself: for instance, Paul Erdős's simultaneous belief in Platonism and a single \"big book\" in which all proofs existed, combined with his personal obsessive need or decision to collaborate with the widest possible number of other mathematicians. The process, rather than the outcomes, seemed to drive his explicit behaviour and odd use of language, as if the synthesis of Erdős and collaborators in seeking proofs, creating sense-datum for other mathematicians, was itself the expression of a divine will. Certainly, Erdős behaved as if nothing else in the world mattered, including money or love, as emphasized in his biography \"The Man Who Loved Only Numbers\".\n\nSeveral fields of science and especially medicine seem to make liberal use of ideas in process philosophy, notably the theory of pain and healing of the late 20th century. The philosophy of medicine began to deviate somewhat from scientific method and an emphasis on repeatable results in the very late 20th century by embracing population thinking, and a more pragmatic approach to issues in public health, environmental health and especially mental health. In this latter field, R. D. Laing, Thomas Szasz and Michel Foucault were instrumental in moving medicine away from emphasis on \"cures\" and towards concepts of individuals in balance with their society, both of which are changing, and against which no benchmarks or finished \"cures\" were very likely to be measurable.\n\nIn psychology, the subject of imagination was again explored more extensively since Whitehead, and the question of feasibility or \"eternal objects\" of thought became central to the impaired theory of mind explorations that framed postmodern cognitive science. A biological understanding of the most eternal object, that being the emerging of similar but independent cognitive apparatus, led to an obsession with the process \"embodiment\", that being, the emergence of these cognitions. Like Whitehead's God, especially as elaborated in J. J. Gibson's perceptual psychology emphasizing affordances, by ordering the relevance of eternal objects (especially the cognitions of other such actors), the world becomes. Or, it becomes simple enough for human beings to begin to make choices, and to prehend what happens as a result. These experiences may be summed in some sense but can only approximately be shared, even among very similar cognitions with identical DNA. An early explorer of this view was Alan Turing who sought to prove the limits of expressive complexity of human genes in the late 1940s, to put bounds on the complexity of human intelligence and so assess the feasibility of artificial intelligence emerging. Since 2000, Process Psychology has progressed as an independent academic and therapeutic discipline: In 2000, Michel Weber created the Whitehead Psychology Nexus: an open forum dedicated to the cross-examination of Alfred North Whitehead's process philosophy and the various facets of the contemporary psychological field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23006098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23006098", "title": "Red Pawn", "text": "Red Pawn\n\nRed Pawn is a screenplay written by Ayn Rand. It was the first screenplay that Rand sold. Universal Pictures purchased it in 1932. \"Red Pawn\" features the theme of the evil of dictatorship, specifically of Soviet Russia.\n\n\"Red Pawn\" is a spy thriller set on Strastnoy Island in an undisclosed location in northern Soviet Russia during the 1920s. On the island is a converted monastery used as an institution for political prisoners. The screenplay follows Joan Harding, aka Frances Volkontzev, an American woman who infiltrates Strastnoy Island to free her imprisoned husband, Michael Volkontzev.\n\nJoan enters the prison under the pretext of being the new wife of the prison head Commandant Kareyev given to him by the state. A love triangle develops between the three characters as Joan works to free her husband while fooling the prison staff and Kareyev as to her true intentions.\n\nThe rights to the screenplay belong to Paramount Pictures, though the screenplay has never been adapted to film.\n\nJoan Harding arrives by boat at Strastnoy Island and is presented to Commandant Kareyev as his new, state-granted wife. Kareyev greets Joan coldly, believing that she will leave when the next boat comes six months later. Kareyev takes Joan on a tour around the prison island during which she observes the prisoners. Joan's husband, Michael Volkontzev, recognizes her and calls out to her, but she pretends not to recognize him. It is only later in her room that Joan (real name Frances Volkontzeva) reunites with Michael and tells him of her plan to free him. She will sneak him onto the next boat and help him escape the country through the help of an English merchant in the nearby town of Nijni Kolimsk. She asks that Michael trust her and keep his distance so Kareyev and others do not suspect that they know each other.\n\nMonths pass and Joan becomes friends with many of the political prisoners on the island, and slowly Commandant Kareyev begins to feel affection for her. Michael is torn over how his wife seems to return that affection and begins to doubt his wife's intentions. Joan arranges for Michael to sneak onto the next boat while the guard is given leave by Kareyev at her insistence, but she will not be joining Michael on the boat. He is to go alone while she stays with Kareyev. Joan tells Michael to meet up with the merchant and that in order to avoid suspicion, she would follow in the coming months.\n\nThe night of his escape, Michael barges into Kareyev's room and tells the Commandant that he has attempted to escape and reveals that Joan is his wife. Kareyev has his assistant, Comrade Fedossitch, place Michael in detention and tell Joan that she will be taking the ferry the next day to leave Strastnoy Island. Joan confesses her love for Kareyev and begs him to leave his post and escape with her and Michael, so that she and Kareyev can live together. Kareyev considers her offer but refuses, saying that he cannot betray his Party and his comrades. He tells Joan to pack her things to depart alone in the morning.\n\nFedossitch confronts Kareyev, telling him Joan should be arrested for deceiving them and the Party. Kareyev puts Fedossitch under arrest and then goes to Joan's room and tells her to follow him to the detention tower to free Michael, so all three of them can escape. The three board the ferry and make their way to shore where they commandeer a horse sled from a local farmer. As the trio make their way to shore, it is discovered that Michael, Joan, and Kareyev are no longer on the island and Fedossitch is freed by a fellow officer. Fedossitch finds that the radio is destroyed, so he alerts the shore of the escape using the monastery's bell and light signals.\n\nKareyev, Michael, and Joan attempt to flee to the merchant's house and are forced to seek shelter in an empty barn. The two men begin fighting over who should be with Joan. They ask her who she loves, but before Joan has the chance to answer they are discovered and arrested. The commanding officer reveals that Joan and the traitorous commandant are to be taken to the State Political Directorate headquarters in Nijni Kolimsk, mentioning that it is across the street from an English merchant's house. Joan realizes there is still hope if they can escape their cells and go across the street. However, the commander reveals that Michael is to be taken away for immediate execution. The soldier, unable to distinguish the two male captives, asks Joan to identify which man is her husband. Joan points to Kareyev and tells soldiers he is the one; he makes no objections. The screenplay ends as Kareyev is taken away for execution while Joan and Michael are driven to Nijni Kolimsk with the hope of escape and a future together.\n\nRand began writing \"Red Pawn\" in 1931. She had emigrated to the United States from the Soviet Union five years earlier. Prior to starting \"Red Pawn\", she had worked as a junior screenwriter for Cecil B. DeMille, but by 1931 she was working in the wardrobe department at RKO Studios. She had been writing her debut novel, \"We the Living\", but took a break to write the screenplay in hopes of earning enough money to allow her to write full-time. She sold the screenplay and the synopsis to Universal Pictures in 1932 for $1,500, her first professional sale. The studio postponed the filming of the screenplay several times, and with Hollywood entering its Red Decade, the anti-Soviet themes of the film made it unattractive to filmmakers. Universal later traded the property to Paramount, which has held onto the rights since, although \"Red Pawn\" has never been filmed.\n\nProfessor of literature at Anderson College Jena Trammell has cited \"Red Pawn\" as a crucial point in Rand's career and in the development of her aesthetic philosophy, romantic realism.\n\n\"We the Living\", finally published in 1936, shares some basic plotlines with \"Red Pawn\". Both feature a love triangle set against the background of the early Soviet Union, with the woman protagonist having an anti-Communist lover and a Communist one, and with the Communist finally compromising or renouncing his ideological allegiance for love of her.\n\n"}
{"id": "23995893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23995893", "title": "Roadkill cuisine", "text": "Roadkill cuisine\n\nRoadkill cuisine is preparing and eating roadkill, animals hit by vehicles and found along roads.\n\nIt is a practice engaged in by a small subculture in the United States, southern Canada, the United Kingdom, and other Western countries as well as in other parts of the world. It is also a subject of humor and urban legend.\n\nLarge animals including deer, elk, moose, and bear are frequently struck in some parts of the United States, as well as smaller animals such as squirrels, opossum, armadillos, raccoons, skunks, and birds. Fresh kill is preferred and worms are a concern, so the kill is typically well cooked. Advantages of the roadkill diet, apart from its low cost, are that the animals that roadkill scavengers eat are naturally high in vitamins and proteins with lean meat and little saturated fat, and generally free of additives and drugs.\n\nAlmost 1.3 million deer are hit by vehicles each year in the US. If the animal is not obviously suffering from disease, the meat is no different from that obtained by hunting. The practice of eating roadkill is legal, and even encouraged in some jurisdictions, while it is tightly controlled or restricted in other areas. Roadkill eating is considered unglamorous and mocked in pop culture, where it is often associated with stereotypes of rednecks and uncouth persons.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, various casseroles may be prepared from badger, hedgehog, otter, rat, rabbit or pheasant where available. Others recommend preparing fox cub or hedgehog in a fricassee. \nHedgehog was traditionally eaten roasted with a nettle pudding.\nBadger must be cooked thoroughly to avoid the risk of trichinellosis (alt. trichinosis, trichiniasis).\nRoadkill enthusiasts in Canada recommend roasting beaver, which should first be soaked in salted water overnight after removing all fat.\nThere are several roadkill cookbooks, typically with a tongue-in-cheek treatment but containing sensible advice, not least of which is ensuring that the flat meat is fresh and free of disease, and is adequately cooked to destroy bacteria and other contaminants.\n\nRat should be avoided because of the risk of Weil's disease.\n\nBuck Peterson has written a number of recipe books for this food source which he considers highly underrated, including \"Original Road Kill Cookbook\", \"The International Road Kill Cookbook\" and \"The Totaled Roadkill Cookbook\". \"Roadkill Cooking for Campers\" by Charles Irion gives advice on outdoor cooking of roadkill. The more discerning may prefer Jeff Eberbaugh's \"Gourmet Style Road Kill Cooking\", which gives advice on converting roadside opossum, deer, turtle or skunk carcasses into tasty treats including squirrel pot pie, groundhog hoagies, creamed coon casserole and road kill stir fry.\n\nThomas K. Squier, a former Special Forces survival school instructor, argues that wild meat is free of the steroids and additives found in commercial meat, and is an economical source of protein. His book \"The wild and free cookbook\" includes a section devoted to locating, evaluating, preparing and cooking roadkill.\n\nNot all sources are serious. According to some, raccoon or opossum are preferable to squirrel, and the taste is improved by aging and marinating the meat in roadside oil and grease before preparing a stew. Alternative recipes for roadkill include raccoon kebabs, moose-and-squirrel meat balls, Pennsylvania possum pot pie and skunk skillet stew. Some of these website recipes are strictly humorous in intent and may pose health hazards, possibly severe, if taken seriously.\n\nThere are various intergrades between an animal which has been squashed flat, and an animal which has been hit glancingly and thrown onto the verge. An example of the latter would be a cock pheasant which flew up and tried to challenge a passing car and was thrown on the verge with its skull crushed but no other damage.\n\nAs a guide to edibility, the mnemonic \"How fresh is it? How flat is it?\" serves to remind the would-be eater of the two main characteristics to check before preparing roadkill.\n\nIn Australia, kangaroo meat is produced from free ranging wild animals, typically living on privately owned land. Wild kangaroos are a serious hazard at night in the Australian bush, accounting for 71% of animal-related insurance claims, followed by dogs (9%) and wombats (5%). Most vehicles in the bush are fitted with roo bars to minimize the risk of damage. The meat thus collected may be barbecued or prepared in a roo stew. Consumption of native species is only lawful if you possess a valid game hunting or scientific license.\n\nMotorists in western Canada are at some risk of colliding with bears. Bear collisions have also been reported in Ontario. Bears killed by accident may be donated to needy people for their meat. There is some risk of trichinellosis if bear meat contaminated with \"Trichinella nativa\" is under-cooked. In 2008, protesters blocking a new highway in British Columbia set up a kitchen in their camp where they cooked raccoon stew, venison steaks, and bunny burgers using roadkill collected from the TransCanada Highway.\nMoose were introduced to Newfoundland in 1878, and are now abundant - and a road hazard at night. Until recently, moose that were cleanly killed in road accidents were given to charitable groups. However, in April 2009 the Department of Natural Resources stated that they were going to stop this practice, citing concerns about the provenance. A spokesman stated the department would no longer be: \"providing roadkill under which we have no idea about the health of the animal, we have no idea about how the animal was butchered\".\n\n\"The Independent\" and ABC News reported on food pioneer Fergus Drennan, \"a full-time forager, environmentalist and star of the Fresh One Productions series The Roadkill Chef\" broadcast in 2007 by the BBC. Drennan is a critic of factory farming. He does have limits to what he'll eat, \"One of the few things that I tend to avoid are cats and dogs. In theory, I'd have no problem with eating them... [but they've] always got name tags on their collars, and since I have two cats, it's a step too far.\"\n\nArthur Boyt is a retired biologist who \"has spent the past 50 years scraping weasels, hedgehogs, squirrels and even otters off roads near his Cornish home, and cooking them.\" Boyt has published recipe books and appeared on television cookery shows and said that roadkill \"is good for the body, the environment and the pocket. It's delicious and won't cost much at all. All you need is some veg and herbs.\" Boyt calls himself a \"freegan\" and, though a dog lover, does not believe in waste and is especially fond of the taste of labrador retrievers which he compares to lamb.\n\nThere have been reports of roadkill poaching in Sherwood Forest, home of the legendary Robin Hood. Apparently the poachers place food such as jam sandwiches on the road to attract deer. When one is killed by a vehicle, they quickly retrieve the carcass for use in game pies and venison steak.\n\nRules about taking and eating roadkill vary in the United States. The trend has been for increased legal acceptance.\n\nIn addition to naturalists in rural areas, cooking and eating roadkill has also been reported among the hobo population.\n§ 17-319. Big game killed by motor vehicle; salvage permit; violation; classification \n\nA. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the carcass of a big game animal that has been killed as a result of an accidental collision with a motor vehicle on a maintained road may be possessed and transported by the driver of the vehicle if the driver first obtains a big game salvage permit issued by a peace officer. A person may possess or transport the carcass or any part of the carcass of a big game animal killed as a result of an accidental collision with a motor vehicle only as provided by this section.\n\nIn Alaska big game roadkill (notably moose and caribou) are considered state property, and the operator of the vehicle that killed the animal must call a state trooper or the division of fish and wildlife protection to report the kill. The troopers will turn the carcass over to charity \"if it's not too smooshed\". When they receive news of a moose roadkill, volunteers rush to the scene to butcher the animal, which must be quickly bled, gutted and quartered so the meat can cool as fast as possible. The meat is taken to churches, which distribute it to needy families, and soup kitchens make stew. Around 820 moose are distributed in this way each year. Local residents may also register to be included on the \"roadkill list\" in the more rural areas, ensuring that the valuable meat is not wasted.\n\nThe people of Georgia claim that they invented Brunswick Stew, a traditional dish now eaten throughout the southeastern United States which may also contain roadkill. There is a debate as to whether Brunswick Stew was actually originally made near the town of Brunswick, Georgia, or in Brunswick County in southern Virginia. Mull is another cold-weather dish from Georgia, which may contain almost any type of meat including goat, dove, squirrel and (some say) rat and roadkill.\n\nA whitetail deer that is killed/injured due to a collision with a motor vehicle may be legally possessed by an individual if the following criteria are met:\n\n\nRoad kill deer may only be claimed by persons who are residents of Illinois, are not delinquent in child support payments and do not have their wildlife privileges suspended in any state. Individuals who claim a deer killed in a vehicle collision shall report the possession of the road kill deer to the Department of Natural Resources by submitting a report to the IDNR within 24 hours by using the on-line Road Kill Deer Reporting Form or by telephoning the Department of Natural Resources no later than 4:30 p.m. on the next business day.\n\nIn Kentucky, the traditional roadkill stew or wild game stew is known as Burgoo, a stew-like soup of squirrel, rabbit, possum, mutton meat (or whatever meat is available) and vegetables, is declining in popularity, perhaps due to declines in traditional hunting. However, it is still widely served in Owensboro, the burgoo capital of the world. The Moonlite Bar-b-q Inn is a traditional stop for Burgoo. There are rumors that if somebody were to bring roadkill to the Moonlite Bar-B-Q they will cook it, although this is unverified.\n\nFor at least the past 30 years, Michigan has allowed individuals who hit a deer to legally possess it. Upon hitting a deer, the driver was required to call local law enforcement, wait for them to come out to the accident scene, and if you wished, they would issue a free \"Highway Killed Deer Permit.\" As of Sept 28, 2014, this process has been streamlined and permission can be obtained via telephone by calling the DNR or local law enforcement.\n\nIn New Jersey a permit is required for those who want to eat what are sometimes referred to as furry frisbees. In February 2005, following complaints by the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Kraft Foods decided to stop production of Trolli U.S. Road Kill Gummies. The society complained that the products, shaped as partly flattened squirrels, chickens and snakes, would give children incorrect messages about the proper treatment of animals.\n\nhttps://www.familycareweb.com/wp/the-ultimate-gout-diet-cookbook-how-not-to-die-download-cookbook/===Tennessee===\nTennessee's legislature has considered legalizing the eating of flattened fauna except domestic pets, a proposal that drew a flood of ridicule due to the awkward wording of the bill introduced by state senator Tim Burchett. The bill may not have been entirely necessary: an officer of the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency stated that \"no wildlife officer would have charged a citizen with possession of road kill with intent to eat.\"\n\nIn May 2002 representatives of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) called on the Texas legislature to legalize the eating of roadkill. However, a law passed in 2007 to prohibit hunting of wildlife from roads appears to also make collection of roadkill illegal. A Texas Parks and Wildlife official said that \"The department strongly encourages all persons to avoid engaging in the collection of any animal life on public roads\".\n\nUnder West Virginia state code §20-2-4 it is legal to take home and eat roadkill. Jeff Eberbaugh's \"Gourmet Style Road Kill Cooking\" was a runaway success in West Virginia when it was published in 1991. The town of Marlinton, West Virginia holds a road-kill cook-off each fall during the last Saturday of September, which attracts thousands of visitors each year. The festival features dishes such as pothole possum stew, fricasseed wabbit gumbo, teriyaki marinated bear, and deer sausage. While the food at this festival doesn't actually involve real roadkill, the dishes are prepared with the kinds of animals that are commonly knocked down by cars.\n\nA motorist who hits and kills an animal is entitled to keep it, but he must first obtain a free tag from the local authorities (sheriff or police department.) If the motorist who killed the animal does not wish to claim it, anyone else can contact the authorities and request a free tag for the animal.\n\nFound roadkills are considered waste,while car crashes involving European elk or bear, the meat is inspected and auctioned by police.\n\nCiting the meat's freshness, that it is organic, and free, some alternative/natural food commenters have taken to scavenging for roadkill. In his book \"The Revolution Will Not be Microwaved\", Sandor Ellix Katz makes the case for eating roadkill in the name of sustainability. \nKatz talks at length about a North Carolina \"earthskills\" collective whose members turned to eating roadkill in the spring of 2002, and who have now become a center of information on evaluating, skinning and cooking roadkill as well as turning the hides to good use. \nKatz's views have been called bizarre and extreme.\n\nIn a discussion on the issue the Australian philosopher and animal rights author Peter Singer said,I am opposed to subjecting animals to unnecessary pain and killing for food. Even so ... when a deer is accidentally hit by a car ... killing the animal to remove the pain is, in my opinion, justified and ethical. If an animal has been killed in an accident or is killed to prevent additional suffering before it dies and if this dead animal is a source of food, why not eat it when it is edible?\n\nThe theme of environmental responsibility is taken up in a number of publications by radical environmentalists, such as \"Igniting a revolution: voices in defense of the earth\". People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) wrote a tongue-in-cheek article referencing the phenomenon, which urges non-vegetarians to \"kick their unhealthy meat addictions\", including a description of roadkill as \"meat without murder\" and a suggestion that \"die-hard meat-eaters can help clear their consciences—and the streets—by eating roadkill.\"\n\nWild animals, the primary constituent of roadkill, are usually lower in calories and saturated fat than domestic meat,\nwhile being higher in Omega-3 polyunsaturated fats and slightly lower in overall fat.\nNutritional values for 100 grams (about 3.5 ounces) of uncooked, lean meat except where otherwise noted:\n\nRoadkill stew has become part of North American popular culture. A frequently told joke told about rednecks or other groups of rural people asks how many it takes to eat a raccoon or opossum, with the punch line \"Three. Two to do it and one to watch for cars\". \"Road Kill Stew\", sung to the tune of \"Three Blind Mice\", is sung at some summer camps. Many artists have recorded variants on the theme, such as Joe Adee with his \"Road Kill Stew Possum Tour\" and Honky Tonk Confidential with their album \"Road Kill Stew and Other News\".\n\nClinton Tyree, also known as Skink, is a recurring character in novels by Carl Hiaasen. He is a former governor of Florida \"turned environmental guerrilla\" who lives rough in the Florida wilderness and regularly eats roadkill.\n\nOn the TV series \"You Can't Do That on Television\", the chef Barth sometimes served roadkill at his restaurant. Also, on the TV series \"I'm With Busey\", Actor Gary Busey attempts to pitch his idea of a roadkill cookbook. Later on, Busey also cooks a dead badger from the side of the road.\n\nThe term \"Roadkill Cafe\" is sometimes considered a joke, with the tagline \"You kill it, we grill it\" or \"From your grill to ours\". However, there are several \"real\" Roadkill Cafes in existence, none known to be associated with each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "705313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705313", "title": "Robert Monroe", "text": "Robert Monroe\n\nRobert Allan Monroe, also known as Bob Monroe (October 30, 1915 – March 17, 1995), was a radio broadcasting executive who became known for his research into altered consciousness and founding The Monroe Institute. His 1971 book \"Journeys Out of the Body\" is credited with popularizing the term \"out-of-body experience\".\n\nMonroe achieved worldwide recognition as an explorer of human consciousness and out-of-body experiences. His research, beginning in the 1950s, produced evidence that specific sound patterns have identifiable, beneficial effects on our capabilities. For example, certain combinations of frequencies appeared to enhance alertness; others to induce sleep; and still others to evoke expanded states of consciousness.\n\nAssisted by specialists in psychology, medicine, biochemistry, psychiatry, electrical engineering, physics, and education, Robert Monroe developed Hemi-Sync, a patented audio technology that is claimed to facilitate enhanced performance.\n\nHe is also notable as one of the founders of the Jefferson Cable Corporation, the first cable company to cover central Virginia.\n\nRobert Allan Monroe was born in Indiana, weighing twelve pounds. He grew up in Lexington, Kentucky, and Columbus, Ohio; his mother, Georgia Helen Jordan Monroe, was a non-practicing medical doctor and cellist and piano player. His father, Robert Emmett Monroe, was a college professor of Romance Languages who led summer tours to Europe. Monroe had two older sisters, Dorothy and Peggy, and a younger brother, Emmett, who became a medical doctor.\n\nAccording to his third book \"Ultimate Journey\", he dropped out of Ohio State University in his sophomore year due to a hospital stay for a facial burn that caused him to fall behind in his studies. During almost a year away from college, a desire to find work led him to become a hobo who rode freight trains. He returned to Ohio State to graduate after having studied pre-med, English, engineering, and journalism.\n\nHe had an early fascination with flying and music and had great mechanical aptitude. He displayed some ability to read music by age four without having studied the subject, perhaps by listening to his mother and sisters playing piano.\n\nHe married Jeanette, a graduate student and daughter of a lawyer, in 1937, and divorced her in 1938 or 1939. He married Mary Ashworth, a divorcee with a daughter Maria, in 1950 or 1951. They had Bob's only biological child together, daughter Laurie. They divorced in 1968. He then married Nancy Penn Honeycutt, a divorcee with four children. They remained married until her death from breast cancer on August 15, 1992.\n\nMonroe developed ulcers in young adulthood and so was classified 4F (unfit for service) during World War II. He spent the war years working for a manufacturing company that designed a flight-simulator prototype. He wrote for an aviation column in \"Argosy\" magazine and was given a job with the National Aeronautic Association (NAA), for whom he produced a weekly radio show called \"Scramble!\", the primary purpose of which was to interest youth in aviation.\n\nIn 1953 Mr. Monroe formed RAM Enterprises, a corporation that produced network radio programs, as many as 28 programs monthly, principally in dramatic and popular quiz shows.\n\nIn 1956 the firm created a Research and Development division to study the effects of various sound patterns on human consciousness, including the sleep state. Monroe was especially attracted to the concept of sleep-learning. This was a natural direction to take, applying to this new area the audio production methods used in the firm's commercial activity. The purpose was to find more constructive uses for such knowledge than was ordinarily available, and the results of this research have become internationally known.\n\nAccording to his own account, while experimenting with sleep-learning in 1958 Monroe experienced an unusual phenomenon, which he described as sensations of paralysis and vibration accompanied by a bright light that appeared to be shining on him from a shallow angle. Monroe went on to say that this occurred another nine times over the next six weeks, culminating in his first out-of-body experience (OBE). Monroe recorded his account in his 1971 book \"Journeys Out of the Body\" and went on to become a prominent researcher in the field of human consciousness. Monroe later authored two more books on his experiments with OBE, \"Far Journeys\" (1985) and \"Ultimate Journey\" (1994).\n\nIn 1962 the company moved to Virginia, and a few years later changed the corporate name to Monroe Industries. In this location it became active in radio station ownership, cable television, and later in the production and sale of audio cassettes. These cassettes were practical expressions of the discoveries made in the earlier and ongoing corporate research program.\n\nIn 1985 the company officially changed its name, once again, to Interstate Industries, Inc. This reflected Monroe's analogy of how the use of Hemi-Sync serves as a ramp from the \"local road\" to the \"interstate\" in allowing people to go \"full steam ahead\" in the exploration of consciousness, avoiding all of the stops and starts.\n\nThe research subsidiary was divested and established as an independent non-profit organization, The Monroe Institute, later in 1985. Interstate Industries, Inc. remains a privately held company, now doing business as Monroe Products.\n\nRobert Monroe's leadership of the entire program of development were supported for more than 50 years by many specialists who continue their participation to this day. His daughter, Laurie Monroe, continued her father's research into consciousness and the mind's potential until her death in 2006. Under the current direction of another of Monroe's daughters, Maria Monroe Whitehead, Monroe's stepson, A. J. Honeycutt, and Teresa West, president of Monroe Products, the company's objective is to continue to expand the Hemi-Sync line of products and their benefits into markets worldwide.\n\nThe Monroe Institute (TMI) is a nonprofit education and research organization devoted to the exploration of human consciousness, based in Faber, Virginia, United States. Upwards of 20,000 people are estimated to have attended TMI's residential Gateway program during its first thirty years, with consumers of the audio industry founded on its research running into millions. Currently, many tens of thousands of people have experienced the residential programs developed by the Monroe Institute at TMI's campus in Virginia as well as across the US and the world, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Cyprus, England, France, Germany, Japan, Romania, and Spain. TMI claims a policy of no dogma or bias with respect to belief system, religion, political or social stance.\n\nTMI was founded by Robert Monroe after he started having what he called \"out of body experiences\", now also commonly referred to as OBEs. It comprises several buildings on of land south of Charlottesville, Virginia, USA. One of its activities includes teaching various techniques, based on audio-guidance processes, in order to expand consciousness and explore areas of consciousness not normally available in the waking state.\n\nIn 1978, the U.S. military evaluated TMI and arranged to send officers there for OBE training. In 1983, it sent additional officers.\n\nControlled studies of the Institute's technology suggest that it is effective as an analgesic supplement and can reduce hospital discharge times. The Institute has an affiliated professional membership, and also publishes scientific papers on a subset of its own studies of altered states of consciousness. In its in-house laboratory, these states or focus levels are typically induced by delivering Hemi-Sync signals to subjects performing relaxation procedures inside a shielded, sense-depriving isolation tank. Progression through states is detected and monitored by measurement of peripheral skin temperature, galvanic skin response and DC skin potential voltage.\n\nIn 1994, a front page article in the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported confirmation from the former director of the Intelligence and Security Command of the U.S. Army sending personnel to the institute. It also stated the opinion of the head of the Zen Buddhist temple in Vancouver British Columbia that \"Gateway students can reach meditation states in a week that took [me] 30 years of sitting\".\n\nA reporter for \"The Hook\", weekly newspaper for Charlottesville, Virginia, who visited The Monroe Institute said, \"...with a few exceptions, the only 'normal' people with whom I could fully identify were the trainers, who seemed remarkably well-grounded for people whose day-to-day experiences include astral projection and disembodied spirits\".\n\nThe reporter also concluded that \"there is something significant being developed at the Institute. Whether it's just a brilliant guided meditation (complete with trance-inducing stereoscopic sound) or a doorway to a world of spirit entities, I cannot say\".\n\nIn 1975, Monroe registered the first of several patents concerning audio techniques designed to stimulate brain functions until the left and right hemispheres became synchronized. Monroe held that this state, dubbed Hemi-Sync (hemispherical synchronization), could be used to promote mental well-being or to trigger an altered state of consciousness. Monroe's concept was based on an earlier hypothesis known as binaural beats and has since been expanded upon a commercial basis by the self-help industry.\n\nHemi-Sync is a trademarked brand name for a patented process used to create audio patterns containing binaural beats, which are commercialized in the form of audio CDs. Interstate Industries Inc., created by Hemi-Sync founder Robert Monroe, is the owner of the Hemi-Sync technology. \n\"Hemi-Sync\" is short for \"Hemispheric Synchronization\", also known as \"brainwave synchronization\". Monroe indicated that the technique synchronizes the two hemispheres of one's brain, thereby creating a 'frequency-following response' designed to evoke certain effects. Hemi-Sync has been used for many purposes, including relaxation and sleep induction, learning and memory aids, helping those with physical and mental difficulties, and reaching altered states of consciousness through the use of sound.\nThe technique involves using sound waves to entrain brain waves. Wearing headphones, Monroe claimed that brains respond by producing a third sound (called binaural beats) that encouraged various brainwave activity changes. In 2002, a University of Virginia presentation at the Society for Psychophysiologial Research examined Monroe's claim. The presentation demonstrated that EEG changes did not occur when the standard electromagnetic headphones of Monroe's setup were replaced by air conduction headphones, which were connected to a remote transducer by rubber tubes. This suggests that the basis for the entrainment effects is electromagnetic rather than acoustical.\n\nReplicated, double-blind, randomized trials on anesthetized patients have found Hemi-Sync effective as a partial replacement for fentanyl during surgery. A similar study found it ineffective at replacing propofol however.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "930692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=930692", "title": "Romanian Revolution", "text": "Romanian Revolution\n\nThe Romanian Revolution () was a period of violent civil unrest in the Socialist Republic of Romania in December 1989 and part of the Revolutions of 1989 that occurred in several countries. The Romanian Revolution started in the city of Timișoara and soon spread throughout the country, ultimately culminating in the show trial and execution of longtime Communist Party General Secretary Nicolae Ceaușescu and his wife Elena, and the end of 42 years of Communist rule in Romania. It was also the last removal of a Marxist-Leninist government in a Warsaw Pact country during the events of 1989, and the only one that violently overthrew a country's government and executed its leader.\n\nEarly protests occurred in the city of Timișoara in mid-December on the part of the Hungarian minority in response to an attempt by the government to evict Hungarian Reformed church pastor László Tőkés. In response, Romanians sought revolution and a change in government in light of similar recent events in neighbouring nations. The country's ubiquitous secret police force, the Securitate, which was both one of the largest in the Eastern Bloc and for decades had been the main suppressor of popular dissension, frequently and violently quashing political disagreement, ultimately proved powerless in stopping the looming, and then highly fatal and successful revolt.\n\nSocial and economic malaise had been present in socialist Romania for quite some time, especially during the austerity years of the 1980s. The austerity measures were designed in part by Ceaușescu to repay foreign debts. Shortly after a botched public speech by Ceaușescu in Bucharest (Romania's capital city) that was broadcast to millions of Romanians on state television, rank-and-file members of the military switched, almost unanimously, from supporting the dictator to backing the protesting population. Riots, street violence and murder in several Romanian cities over the course of roughly a week led the Romanian strongman to flee the capital city on 22 December with his wife, Deputy Prime Minister Elena Ceaușescu. Evading capture by hastily departing via helicopter effectively portrayed the couple as both fugitives and also acutely guilty of accused crimes. Captured in Târgoviște, they were tried by a drumhead military tribunal on charges of genocide, damage to the national economy and abuse of power to execute military actions against the Romanian people. They were convicted on all charges, sentenced to death, and immediately executed on Christmas Day 1989, becoming the last people condemned to death and executed in Romania.\n\nPresent-day Romania has unfolded in the shadow of the Ceaușescus along with its communist past, and the tumultuous departure from it. The National Salvation Front quickly took power after Ceaușescu was toppled, promising free and fair elections within five months. Elected in a landslide the following May, the National Salvation Front, reconstituted as a political party, installed a series of economic and democratic reforms, with further social policy changes being implemented by later governments. Since that point Romania has become far more integrated with the West than its former, albeit tepid, relations with Moscow. Romania became a member of NATO and the European Union in 2004 and 2007, respectively. Democratic reforms have proven to be moderately successful, though issues with corruption remain. Economic reforms continue, with Romania still possessing, for example, one of the highest child poverty rates in the developed world.\n\nIn 1981 Ceaușescu began an austerity programme designed to enable Romania to liquidate its entire national debt ($10 billion). To achieve this, many basic goods—including gas, heat and food—were rationed, which drastically reduced the standard of living and increased malnutrition. The infant mortality rate also grew to be the highest in Europe.\n\nThe secret police, \"Securitate\", had become so omnipresent that it made Romania essentially a police state. Free speech was limited and opinions that did not favour the Communist Party were forbidden. The large numbers of Securitate informers made organised dissent nearly impossible. The regime deliberately played on this sense that everyone was being watched to make it easier to bend the people to the Party's will. Even by Soviet-bloc standards, the Securitate was exceptionally brutal.\n\nCeaușescu created a cult of personality, with weekly shows in stadiums or on streets in different cities dedicated to him, his wife and the Communist Party. There were several megalomaniac projects, such as the construction of the grandiose House of the Republic (today the Palace of the Parliament)—the biggest palace in the world—the adjacent Centrul Civic and a never-completed museum dedicated to communism and Ceaușescu, today the Casa Radio. These and similar projects drained the country's finances and aggravated the already dire economic situation. Thousands of Bucharest residents were evicted from their homes, which were subsequently demolished to make room for the huge structures.\n\nUnlike the other Warsaw Pact leaders, Ceaușescu had not been slavishly pro-Soviet but rather had pursued an \"independent\" foreign policy; Romanian forces did not join its Warsaw Pact allies in putting an end to the Prague Spring—an invasion Ceaușescu openly denounced—while Romanian athletes competed at the Soviet-boycotted 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles (receiving a standing ovation at the opening ceremonies and proceeding to win 53 medals, trailing only the US and West Germany in the overall count). Conversely, while Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev spoke of reform, Ceaușescu maintained a hard political line and cult of personality.\n\nThe austerity programme started in 1981 and the widespread poverty it introduced made the Communist regime very unpopular. The austerity programmes were met with little resistance among Romanians and there were only a few strikes and labour disputes, of which the Jiu Valley miners' strike of 1977 and the Brașov Rebellion of November 1987 at the truck manufacturer Steagul Roșu were the most notable. In March 1989 several leading activists of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR) criticised Ceaușescu's economic policies in a letter, but shortly thereafter he achieved a significant political victory: Romania paid off its external debt of about US $11 billion several months before the time that even the Romanian dictator expected. However, in months following the announcement austerity and a shortage of goods remained the same as before.\n\nIt initially appeared that Ceaușescu would weather the wave of revolution sweeping across Eastern Europe. He was formally re-elected for another five-year term as General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party on 24 November at the party's XIV Congress. On the same day, Ceaușescu's counterpart in Czechoslovakia, Miloš Jakeš, resigned along with the entire Communist leadership, effectively ending Communist rule in Czechoslovakia. On 11 November 1989, before the party congress, on Bucharest's Brezoianu Street and Cogălniceanu Boulevard students from Cluj-Napoca and Bucharest demonstrated with placards saying, \"We want reforms against Ceaușescu government.\"\n\nThe students—including Mihnea Paraschivescu, Grațian Vulpe and the economist Dan Căprariu-Schlachter from Cluj—were detained and investigated by the Securitate at the Rahova Penitentiary on suspicion of propaganda against the socialist society. They were released on 22 December 1989 at 14:00. There were other letters and attempts to draw attention to the economic, cultural and spiritual oppression of Romanians, but they served only to intensify the activity of the police and Securitate. \n\nAnother factor in the revolution was the Decreței policy, a policy banning contraception and abortion. This policy, which began in 1967, resulted in a baby boom, but also resulted in high rates of poverty and child mortality. By 1989 these children had all reached adulthood, and many of them were among the students who started the revolution that overthrew Ceaușescu. \n\nOn 16 December 1989 the Hungarian minority in Timișoara held a public protest in response to an attempt by the government to evict Hungarian Reformed church Pastor László Tőkés. In July of that year Tőkés had criticised the regime's Systematisation policy in an interview with Hungarian television, and complained that Romanians did not even know their human rights. As Tőkés described it later, the interview, which had been seen in the border areas and was then spread all over Romania, had \"a shock effect upon the Romanians, the Securitate as well, on the people of Romania. […] [I]t had an unexpected effect upon the public atmosphere in Romania.\"\n\nThe government then alleged that Tőkés was inciting ethnic hatred. At the behest of the government, his bishop removed him from his post, thereby depriving him of the right to use the apartment to which he was entitled as a pastor, and assigned him to be a pastor in the countryside. For some time his parishioners gathered around his home to protect him from harassment and eviction. Many passersby spontaneously joined in. As it became clear that the crowd would not disperse, the mayor, Petre Moț, made remarks suggesting that he had overturned the decision to evict Tőkés. Meanwhile, the crowd had grown impatient and, when Moț declined to confirm his statement against the planned eviction in writing, the crowd started to chant anti-communist slogans. Subsequently, police and \"Securitate\" forces showed up at the scene. By 19:30 the protest had spread and the original cause became largely irrelevant.\n\nSome of the protesters attempted to burn down the building that housed the district committee of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR). The \"Securitate\" responded with tear gas and water jets, while police beat up rioters and arrested many of them. Around 21:00 the rioters withdrew. They regrouped eventually around the Romanian Orthodox Cathedral and started a protest march around the city, but again they were confronted by the security forces.\n\nRiots and protests resumed the following day, 17 December. The rioters broke into the district committee building and threw party documents, propaganda brochures, Ceaușescu's writings and other symbols of communist power out of the windows.\n\nThe military were sent in to control the riots because the situation was too large for the \"Securitate\" and conventional police to handle. The significance of the army presence in the streets was an ominous one: It meant that they had received their orders from the highest level of the command chain, presumably from Ceaușescu himself. The army failed to establish order; and chaos ensued including gunfire, fights, casualties and burned cars. Transportor Amfibiu Blindat (TAB) armoured personnel carriers and tanks were called in.\n\nAfter 20:00, from Piața Libertății (Liberty Square) to the Opera there was wild shooting, including the area of Decebal bridge, Calea Lipovei (Lipovei Avenue) and Calea Girocului (Girocului Avenue). Tanks, trucks and TABs blocked the accesses into the city while helicopters hovered overhead. After midnight the protests calmed down. Ion Coman, Ilie Matei and Ștefan Gușă (Chief of the Romanian General Staff) inspected the city. Some areas looked like the aftermath of a war: destruction, rubble and blood.\n\nOn the morning of 18 December the centre was being guarded by soldiers and \"Securitate\" agents in plainclothes. Mayor Moț ordered a party gathering to take place at the university, with the purpose of condemning the \"vandalism\" of the previous days. He also declared martial law, prohibiting people from going about in groups of larger than two.\n\nDefying the curfew, a group of 30 young men headed for the Orthodox cathedral, where they stopped and waved a from which they had removed the Romanian Communist coat of arms. Expecting that they would be fired upon, they started to sing \"Deșteaptă-te, române!\" (\"Awaken thee, Romanian!\"), an earlier patriotic song that had been banned since 1947. They were, indeed, fired upon; some died and others were seriously injured, while the lucky ones were able to escape.\n\nOn 19 December Radu Bălan and Ștefan Gușă visited workers in the city's factories, but failed to get them to resume work. On 20 December massive columns of workers entered the city. About 100,000 protesters occupied Piața Operei (Opera Square – today Piața Victoriei, Victory Square) and chanted anti-government slogans: \"Noi suntem poporul!\" (\"We are the people!\"), \"Armata e cu noi!\" (\"The army is on our side!\"), \"Nu vă fie frică, Ceaușescu pică!\" (\"Have no fear, Ceaușescu is falling!\")\n\nMeanwhile, Emil Bobu (Secretary to the Central Committee) and Prime Minister Constantin Dăscălescu were sent by Elena Ceaușescu (Nicolae being at that time in Iran) to resolve the situation. They met with a delegation of the protesters and agreed to free the majority of the arrested protesters. However, they refused to comply with the protesters' main demand (resignation of Ceaușescu) and the situation remained essentially unchanged.\n\nThe next day trains loaded with workers from factories in Oltenia arrived in Timișoara. The regime was attempting to use them to repress the mass protests, but after a brief encounter they ended up joining the protests. One worker explained, \"Yesterday our factory boss and a party official rounded us up in the yard, handed us wooden clubs and told us that Hungarians and 'hooligans' were devastating Timișoara and that it is our duty to go there and help crush the riots. But I realised that wasn't the truth.\"\n\nOn 18 December Ceaușescu had departed for a visit to Iran, leaving the duty of crushing the Timișoara revolt to his subordinates and his wife. Upon his return on the evening of 20 December the situation became even more tense, and he gave a televised speech from the TV studio inside the Central Committee Building (CC Building) in which he spoke about the events at Timișoara in terms of an \"interference of foreign forces in Romania's internal affairs\" and an \"external aggression on Romania's sovereignty.\"\n\nThe country, which had no information about the Timișoara events from the national media, heard about the Timișoara revolt from Western radio stations like Voice of America and Radio Free Europe, and by word of mouth. A mass meeting was staged for the next day, 21 December, which, according to the official media, was presented as a \"spontaneous movement of support for Ceaușescu,\" emulating the 1968 meeting in which Ceaușescu had spoken against the invasion of Czechoslovakia by Warsaw Pact forces.\n\nOn the morning of 21 December, Ceaușescu addressed an assembly of approximately 100,000 people to condemn the uprising in Timișoara. Party officials took great pains to make it appear that Ceaușescu was still immensely popular. Several busloads of workers, under threat of being fired, arrived in Bucharest's Piața Palatului (Palace Square, now Piața Revoluției – Revolution Square) and were given red flags, banners and large pictures of Ceaușescu. They were augmented by bystanders who were rounded up on Calea Victoriei.\n\nThe speech was typical of most of Ceaușescu's speeches over the years. Making liberal use of Marxist-Leninist jargon, he delivered a litany of the achievements of the \"socialist revolution\" and Romanian \"multi-laterally developed socialist society\". He blamed the Timișoara uprising on \"fascist agitators\". However, Ceaușescu was out of touch with his people and completely misread the crowd's mood. The people remained unresponsive, and only the front rows supported Ceaușescu with cheers and applause. About two minutes into the speech, some in the crowd actually began to jeer, boo, whistle and yell insults at him, a reaction unthinkable for most of his rule. Workers from a Bucharest power plant started chanting \"Ti-mi-șoa-ra! Ti-mi-șoa-ra!\", which was soon picked up by others in the crowd. In response, Ceaușescu raised his right hand in hopes of silencing the crowd; his stunned expression remains one of the defining moments of the end of Communism in Eastern Europe. He then tried to placate the crowd by offering to raise workers' salaries by 200 lei per month (about 9 U.S. dollars at the time, yet a 5%–10% raise for a modest salary) and student scholarships from 100 to 110 lei while continuing to praise the achievements of the Socialist Revolution. However, a revolution was brewing right in front of his eyes.\n\nAs Ceaușescu was addressing the crowd from the balcony of the Central Committee building, sudden movement came from the outskirts of the massed assembly, as did the sound of (what various sources have reported as) fireworks, bombs or guns, which together caused the assembly to break into chaos. Initially frightened, the crowds tried to disperse. Bullhorns then began to spread the news that the Securitate was firing on the crowd and that a \"revolution\" was unfolding. This persuaded people in the assembly to join in. The rally turned into a protest demonstration.\n\nThe entire speech was being broadcast live nationwide. Censors attempted to cut the live video feed and replace it with Communist propaganda songs and video praising the Ceaușescu regime, but parts of the riots had already been broadcast and most of the Romanian people realised that something unusual was in progress. Ceaușescu and his wife, as well as other officials and CPEx members, panicked; Ceaușescu's bodyguard hustled him back inside the building.\n\nThe jeers and whistles soon erupted into a riot; the crowd took to the streets, placing the capital, like Timișoara, in turmoil. Members of the crowd spontaneously began shouting anti-Ceaușescu slogans, which spread and became chants: \"Jos dictatorul!\" (\"Down with the dictator\"), \"Moarte criminalului!\" (\"Death to the criminal\"), \"Noi suntem poporul, jos cu dictatorul!\" (\"We are the People, down with the dictator\"), \"Ceaușescu cine ești?/Criminal din Scornicești\" (\"Ceaușescu, who are you? A criminal from Scornicești\").\n\nProtesters eventually flooded the city centre area, from Piața Kogălniceanu to Piața Unirii, Piața Rosetti and Piața Romană. In one notable scene from the event, a young man waved a tricolour with the Communist coat of arms torn out of its centre while perched on the statue of Mihai Viteazul on Boulevard Mihail Cogălniceanu in the University Square. Many others began to emulate the young protester, and the waving and displaying of the Romanian flag with the Communist insignia cut out quickly became widespread.\n\nAs the hours passed many more people took to the streets. Later, observers claimed that even at this point, had Ceaușescu been willing to talk, he might have been able to salvage something. Instead, he decided on force. Soon the protesters—unarmed and unorganised—were confronted by soldiers, tanks, APCs, USLA troops (\"Unitatea Specială pentru Lupta Antiteroristă\", anti-terrorist special squads) and armed plainclothes \"Securitate\" officers. The crowd was soon being shot at from various buildings, side streets and tanks.\n\nThere were many casualties, including deaths, as victims were shot, clubbed to death, stabbed and crushed by armoured vehicles. One APC drove into the crowd around the InterContinental Hotel, crushing people. A French journalist, Jean-Louis Calderon, was killed. A street near University Square was later named after him, as well as a high school in Timișoara.\n\nBelgian journalist Danny Huwé was shot and killed on 23 or 24 December 1989.\n\nFirefighters hit the demonstrators with powerful water jets, and the police continued to beat and arrest people. Protesters managed to build a defensible barricade in front of the \"Dunărea\" (\"Danube\") restaurant, which stood until after midnight, but was finally torn apart by government forces. Intense shooting continued until after 03:00, by which time the survivors had fled the streets.\n\nRecords of the fighting that day include footage shot from helicopters that were sent to raid the area and record evidence for eventual reprisals, as well as by tourists in the high tower of the centrally located InterContinental Hotel, next to the National Theatre and across the street from the university.\n\nIt is likely that in the early hours of 22 December the Ceaușescus made their second mistake. Instead of fleeing the city under cover of night, they decided to wait until morning to leave. Ceaușescu must have thought that his desperate attempts to crush the protests had succeeded, because he apparently called another meeting for the next morning. However, before 07:00, his wife Elena received the news that large columns of workers from many industrial platforms (large communist-era factories or groups of factories concentrated into industrial zones) were heading towards the city centre of Bucharest to join the protests. The police barricades that were meant to block access to Piața Universității (University Square) and Palace Square proved useless. By 09:30 University Square was jammed with protesters. Security forces (army, police and others) re-entered the area, only to join with the protesters.\nBy 10:00, as the radio broadcast was announcing the introduction of martial law and a ban on groups larger than five persons, hundreds of thousands of people were gathering for the first time, spontaneously, in central Bucharest (the previous day's crowd had come together at Ceaușescu's orders). Ceaușescu attempted to address the crowd from the balcony of the Central Committee of the Communist Party building, but his attempt was met with a wave of disapproval and anger. Helicopters spread manifestos (which did not reach the crowd, due to unfavourable winds) instructing people not to fall victim to the latest \"diversion attempts,\" but to go home instead and enjoy the Christmas feast. This order, which drew unfavourable comparisons to Marie Antoinette's haughty (but apocryphal) \"Let them eat cake\", further infuriated the people who did read the manifestos; many at that time had trouble procuring such basic foodstuffs as cooking oil.\n\nAt approximately 09:30 on the morning of 22 December Vasile Milea, Ceaușescu's minister of defence, died under suspicious circumstances. A communiqué by Ceaușescu stated that Milea had been sacked for treason, and that he had committed suicide after his treason was revealed. The most widespread opinion at the time was that Milea hesitated to follow Ceaușescu's orders to fire on the demonstrators, even though tanks had been dispatched to downtown Bucharest that morning. Milea was already in severe disfavour with Ceaușescu for initially sending soldiers to Timișoara without live ammunition. Rank-and-file soldiers believed that Milea had actually been murdered and went over virtually \"en masse\" to the revolution. Senior commanders wrote off Ceaușescu as a lost cause and made no effort to keep their men loyal to the regime. This effectively ended any chance of Ceaușescu staying in power.\n\nAccounts differ about how Milea died. His family and several junior officers believed he had been shot in his own office by the Securitate, while another group of officers believed he had committed suicide. In 2005 an investigation concluded that the minister killed himself by shooting at his heart, but the bullet missed the heart, hit a nearby artery and led to his death shortly afterward.\n\nUpon learning of Milea's death, Ceaușescu appointed Victor Stănculescu minister of defence. He accepted after a brief hesitation. Stănculescu, however, ordered the troops back to their quarters without Ceaușescu's knowledge, and also persuaded Ceaușescu to leave by helicopter, thus making the dictator a fugitive. At that same moment angry protesters began storming the Communist Party headquarters; Stănculescu and the soldiers under his command did not oppose them.\n\nBy refusing to carry out Ceaușescu's orders (he was still technically commander-in-chief of the army), Stănculescu played a central role in the overthrow of the dictatorship. \"I had the prospect of two execution squads: Ceaușescu's and the revolutionary one!\" confessed Stănculescu later. In the afternoon, Stănculescu \"chose\" Ion Iliescu's political group from among others that were striving for power in the aftermath of the recent events.\n\nFollowing Ceaușescu's second failed attempt to address the crowd, he and Elena fled into a lift (elevator) headed for the roof. A group of protesters managed to force their way into the building, overpower Ceaușescu's bodyguards and make their way through his office before heading onto the balcony. They didn't know it, but they were only a few metres from Ceaușescu. The lift's electricity failed just before it reached the top floor, and Ceaușescu's bodyguards forced it open and ushered the couple onto the roof.\n\nAt 11:20 on 22 December 1989, Ceaușescu's personal pilot, Lt. Col. Vasile Maluțan, received instructions from Lt. Gen. Opruta to proceed to Palace Square to pick up the president. As he flew over Palace Square he saw it was impossible to land there. Maluțan landed his white Dauphin, #203, on the terrace at 11:44. A man brandishing a white net curtain from one of the windows waved him down.\n\nMaluțan said, \"Then Stelica, the co-pilot, came to me and said that there were demonstrators coming to the terrace. Then the Ceaușescus came out, both practically carried by their bodyguards . . . They looked as if they were fainting. They were white with terror. Manea Mănescu [one of the vice-presidents] and Emil Bobu were running behind them. Mănescu, Bobu, Neagoe and another Securitate officer scrambled to the four seats in the back . . . As I pulled Ceaușescu in, I saw the demonstrators running across the terrace . . . There wasn't enough space, Elena Ceaușescu and I were squeezed in between the chairs and the door . . . We were only supposed to carry four passengers . . . We had six.\"\n\nAccording to Maluțan, it was 12:08 when they left for Snagov. After they arrived there, Ceaușescu took Maluțan into the presidential suite and ordered him to get two helicopters filled with soldiers for an armed guard, and a further Dauphin to come to Snagov. Maluțan's unit commander replied on the phone, \"There has been a revolution . . . You are on your own . . . Good luck!\". Maluțan then said to Ceaușescu that the second motor was now warmed up and they needed to leave soon but he could only take four people, not six. Mănescu and Bobu stayed behind. Ceaușescu ordered Maluțan to head for Titu. Near Titu, Maluțan says that he made the helicopter dip up and down. He lied to Ceaușescu, saying that this was to avoid anti-aircraft fire, since they would now be in range. Ceaușescu panicked and told him to land.\n\nHe did so in a field next to the old road that led to Pitești. Maluțan then told his four passengers that he could do nothing more. The Securitate men ran to the roadside and began to flag down passing cars. Two cars stopped, one of them driven by a forestry official and one a red Dacia driven by a local doctor. However, the doctor was not happy about getting involved and, after a short time driving the Ceaușescus, faked engine trouble. A car of a bicycle repair man was then flagged down and he took them to Târgoviște. The driver of the car, Nicolae Petrișor, convinced them that they could hide successfully in an agricultural technical institute on the edge of town. When they arrived, the director guided the Ceaușescus into a room and then locked them in. They were arrested by local police at about 15:30, then after some wandering around transported to the Târgoviște garrison's military compound and held captive for several days until their trial.\n\nOn 24 December Ion Iliescu, head of the newly formed Council of the National Salvation Front, signed a decree establishing the Extraordinary Military Tribunal, a drumhead court-martial to try the Ceaușescus for genocide and other crimes. The trial was held on 25 December, lasted for about two hours and delivered death sentences to the couple. Although nominally the Ceaușescus had a right of appeal, their execution followed immediately, just outside the improvised courtroom, being carried out by three paratroopers with their service rifles.\n\nFootage of the trial and of the executed Ceaușescus was promptly released in Romania and to the rest of the world. The actual moment of execution was not filmed since the cameraman was too slow, and he managed to get into the courtyard just as the shooting ended.\n\nIn footage of the trial, Nicolae Ceaușescu is seen answering the ad hoc tribunal judging him and referring to some of its members—among them Army Gen. Victor Atanasie Stănculescu and future Romanian Secret Service head Virgil Măgureanu—as \"traitors\". In this same video Ceaușescu dismisses the \"tribunal\" as illegitimate and demands his constitutional rights to answer to charges in front of a legitimate tribunal.\n\nAfter Ceaușescu left, the crowds in Palace Square entered a celebratory mood, perhaps even more intense than in the other former Eastern Bloc countries because of the recent violence. People cried, shouted and gave each other gifts mainly because it was also close to Christmas Day, which was a long suppressed holiday in Romania. The occupation of the Central Committee building continued.\n\nPeople threw Ceaușescu's writings, official portraits and propaganda books out the windows, intending to burn them. They also promptly ripped off the giant letters from the roof making up the word \"comunist\" (\"communist\") in the slogan: \"Trăiască Partidul Comunist Român!\" (\"Long live the Communist Party of Romania!\"). A young woman appeared on the rooftop and waved a flag with the coat of arms torn out.\n\nAt that time fierce fights were underway at Bucharest Otopeni International Airport between troops sent against each other under claims that they were going to confront terrorists. Early in the morning troops sent to reinforce the airport were fired upon. These troops were from the UM 0865 Campina military base, and were summoned there by Gen. Ion Rus, the commander of the Romanian Air Force. The confrontation resulted in the deaths of 40 soldiers as well as eight civilians. The military trucks were allowed entrance into the airport's perimeter, passing several checkpoints. However, after passing the last checkpoint, being on their way to the airport, they were fired upon from different directions. A civilian bus was also fired upon during the firefight. After the firefight the surviving soldiers were taken prisoner by the troops guarding the airport, who seemed to think that they were loyal to Ceausescu's regime.\n\nHowever, the seizure of power by the new political structure National Salvation Front (FSN), which \"emanated\" from the second tier of the Communist Party leadership with help of the plotting generals, was not yet complete. Forces considered to be loyal to the old regime (spontaneously nicknamed \"terrorists\") opened fire on the crowd and attacked vital points of socio-political life: the television, radio and telephone buildings, as well as Casa Scânteii (the centre of the nation's print media, which serves a similar role today under the name Casa Presei Libere, \"House of the Free Press\") and the post office in the district of Drumul Taberei; Palace Square (site of the Central Committee building, but also of the Central University Library, the national art museum in the former Royal Palace, and the Ateneul Român (Romanian Athaeneum), Bucharest's leading concert hall); the university and the adjoining University Square (one of the city's main intersections); Otopeni and Băneasa airports; hospitals and the Ministry of Defence.\n\nDuring the night of 22–23 December Bucharest residents remained on the streets, especially in the attacked zones, fighting (and ultimately winning, even at the cost of many lives) a battle with an elusive and dangerous enemy. With the military confused by contradictory orders, true battles ensued with many real casualties. At 21:00 on 23 December, tanks and a few paramilitary units arrived to protect the Palace of the Republic.\nMeanwhile, messages of support were flooding in from all over the world: France (President François Mitterrand) ; the Soviet (President Mikhail Gorbachev); Hungary (the Hungarian Socialist Party); the new East German government (at that time the two German states were not yet formally reunited); Bulgaria (Petar Mladenov, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Bulgaria); Czechoslovakia (Ladislav Adamec, leader of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, and Václav Havel, the dissident writer, revolution leader and future president of the Republic); China (the Minister of Foreign Affairs); the United States (President George H.W. Bush); Canada (Prime Minister Brian Mulroney); West Germany (Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich Genscher); NATO (Secretary General Manfred Wörner); the United Kingdom (Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher); Spain; Austria; the Netherlands; Italy; Portugal; Japan (the Japanese Communist Party); SFR Yugoslavia government and Moldavia.\n\nIn the following days, moral support was followed by material support. Large quantities of food, medicine, clothing, medical equipment, and other humanitarian aid were sent to Romania. Around the world, the press dedicated entire pages and sometimes even complete issues to the Romanian revolution and its leaders.\n\nOn 24 December Bucharest was a city at war. Tanks, APCs and trucks continued to patrol the city and surround trouble spots in order to protect them. At intersections near strategic objectives, roadblocks were built; automatic gunfire continued in and around University Square, the Gara de Nord (the city's main railroad station) and Palace Square. Yet amid the chaos, some people were seen clutching makeshift Christmas trees. \"Terrorist activities\" continued until 27 December, when they abruptly stopped. Nobody ever found out who conducted them, or who ordered their termination.\n\nThe total number of deaths in the Romanian Revolution was 1,104, of which 162 were in the protests that led to the overthrow of Nicolae Ceaușescu (16–22 December 1989) and 942 in the fighting that occurred after the seizure of power by the new political structure National Salvation Front (FSN). The number of wounded was 3,352, of which 1,107 occurred while Ceaușescu was still in power and 2,245 after the FSN took power. Official figures place the death toll of the revolution at 689 people, many of whom were civilians.\n\nThe Central University Library was burned down in uncertain circumstances and over 500,000 books, along with about 3,700 manuscripts, were destroyed.\n\nThe Revolution brought Romania vast attention from the outside world. Initially, much of the world's sympathy went to the National Salvation Front government under Ion Iliescu, a former member of the Communist Party leadership and a Ceaușescu ally prior to falling into the dictator's disfavour in the early 1980s. The National Salvation Front, composed mainly of former members of the second echelon of the Communist Party, immediately assumed control over the state institutions, including the main media outlets such as the national radio and television networks. They used their control of the media in order to launch attacks against their political opponents, newly created political parties that claimed to be successors to those existing before 1948.\n\nMuch of that sympathy was squandered during the Mineriad. Massive protests erupted in downtown Bucharest as political rallies organised by the opposition parties during the presidential elections, with a small part of the protesters deciding to stand ground even after Iliescu was re-elected with an overwhelming majority of 85%. Attempts by police to evacuate the remaining protesters resulted in attacks on state institutions, prompting Iliescu to appeal to the country's workers for help. Infiltrated and instigated by former Securitate agents, in the following days a large mass of workers, mainly miners, entered Bucharest and attacked and fought with anti-government protesters and gathered bystanders.\n\nOn the eve of the first free post-communist elections day (20 May 1990), Silviu Brucan—who was part of the National Salvation Front (FSN)--argued that the 1989 Revolution was not anti-communist, being only against Ceauşescu. He stated that Ion Iliescu made a \"monumental\" mistake in \"conceding to the crowd\" and banning the Romanian Communist Party.\n\nIliescu remained the central figure in Romanian politics for more than a decade, losing the presidency in 1996 before regaining it in 2000; he retired for good in 2004.\n\nWhile other former ruling Communist parties in the Soviet bloc reconfigured themselves into social democratic or democratic socialist parties, the PCR melted away in the wake of the revolution. However, a number of former PCR politicians remain prominent on Romania's political scene; until the election of Klaus Iohannis in 2014, every post-1989 president was a former PCR member.\n\nThe National Salvation Front chose between the two economic models that political elites claimed were available to post-Communist Eastern European countries: shock therapy or gradual reforms. The NSF chose the latter, slower reforms, because it would have not been possible to convince the people who were already \"exhausted\" after Ceaușescu's austerity to undergo further sacrifices.\n\nNevertheless, the neoliberal reforms were implemented, although not all at once: by the end of 1990, the prices were liberalised and a free currency exchange rate, devaluing the leu by 60%. The land of the state-owned collective farms was distributed to private owners and a list of 708 large state-owned enterprises to be privatised was devised.\n\nIn 1991 Romania signed an agreement with the IMF and began the privatisation of state-owned enterprises, with the first privatisation law being passed in 1991. In 1992, the Stolojan government began an austerity plan, limiting wages and further liberalising prices. The economic situation deteriorated and inflation as well as unemployment increased substantially. The austerity measures, which by 1995 included a decrease in social spending, led to an increase in poverty.\n\nThe neoliberal reforms were accelerated after the Democratic Convention won the 1996 elections, the government using its prerogatives to pass a package of laws, removing subsidies, passing reforms on unemployment benefits and greatly increasing the number of privatised companies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20892669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20892669", "title": "Saeed Danosian", "text": "Saeed Danosian\n\nSaeed Danosian (November 1, 1954, Tehran, Iran - December 21, 2008, Irvine, California) was a contemporary Iranian artist, scholar and philanthropist based in Orange County, California.\n\nHe pursued a program in interior design at the Bel Art Academy in Rome in the mid-70's, and from 1979 to 1985 studied further at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna (Akademie der bildenden Künste Wien), earning his baccalaureate degree in set design for the theater in 1983 and his master's degree in set design and art direction in 1985. In addition to his areas of major concentration, his studies included film and television, costume design, art history, and music. He worked in the area of set design at both the Burgtheater and Wiener Staatsoper (Vienna State Opera).\n\nHe died in Irvine, California on December 21, 2008 at the age of 54 from a sudden aortic dissection. He is buried in Pacific View Memorial Park in Corona del Mar, California.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50644277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50644277", "title": "Scuba diving fatalities", "text": "Scuba diving fatalities\n\nThe risks of dying during recreational, scientific or commercial diving are small, and on scuba, deaths are usually associated with poor gas management, poor buoyancy control, equipment misuse, entrapment, rough water conditions and pre-existing health problems. Some fatalities are inevitable and caused by unforeseeable situations escalating out of control, but the majority of diving fatalities can be attributed to human error on the part of the victim.\n\nEquipment failure is rare in open circuit scuba, and while the cause of death is commonly recorded as drowning, this is mainly the consequence of an uncontrollable series of events taking place in water. Air embolism is also frequently cited as a cause of death, and it, too is the consequence of other factors leading to an uncontrolled and badly managed ascent, possibly aggravated by medical conditions. About a quarter of diving fatalities are associated with cardiac events, mostly in older divers. There is a fairly large body of data on diving fatalities, but in many cases the data is poor due to the standard of investigation and reporting. This hinders research which could improve diver safety.\n\nScuba diving fatalities have a major financial impact by way of lost income, lost business, insurance premium increases and high litigation costs.\n\nDiving fatality data published in Diving Medicine for Scuba Divers (2015)\n\nFatality rates of 16.4 deaths per 100,000 persons per year among DAN America members and 14.4 deaths per 100,000 persons per year the British Sub-Aqua Club (BSAC) members were similar and did not change during 2000-2006. This is comparable with jogging (13 deaths per 100,000 persons per year) and motor vehicle accidents (16 deaths per 100,000 persons per year), and within the range where reduction is desirable by Health and Safety Executive (HSE) criteria,\n\nData for 17 million student-diver certifications during 63 million student dives over a 20-year period from 1989-2008 show a mean per capita death rateof 1.7 deaths per 100,000 student divers per year. This was lower than for insured DAN members during 2000-2006 at 16.4 deaths per 100,000 DAN members per year, but fatality rate per dive is a better measure of exposure risk, A mean annual fatality rate of 0.48 deaths per 100,000 student dives per year and 0.54 deaths per 100,000 BSAC dives per year and 1.03 deaths per 100,000 non-BSAC dives per year during 2007. The total size of the diving population is important for determining overall fatality rates, and the population estimates from the 1990s of several million U.S. divers need to be updated.\n\nThe most frequent root cause for diving fatalities is running out of or low on gas. Other factors cited include buoyancy control, entanglement or entrapment, rough water, equipment misuse or problems and emergency ascent. The most common injuries and causes of death were drowning or asphyxia due to inhalation of water, air embolism and cardiac events. Risk of cardiac arrest is greater for older divers, and greater for men than women, although the risks are equal by age 65.\n\nSeveral plausible opinions have been put forward but have not yet been empirically validated. Suggested contributing factors included inexperience, infrequent diving, inadequate supervision, insufficient predive briefings, buddy separation and dive conditions beyond the diver’s training, experience or physical capacity.\n\nAccording to death certificates, over 80% of the deaths were ultimately attributed to drowning, but other factors usually combined to incapacitate the diver in a sequence of events culminating in drowning, which is more a consequence of the medium in which the accidents occurred than the actual accident. Often the drowning obscures the real cause of death. Scuba divers should not drown unless there are other contributory factors as they carry a supply of breathing gas and equipment designed to provide the gas on demand. Drowning occurs as a consequence of preceding problems, such as cardiac disease, pulmonary barotrauma, unmanageable stress, unconsciousness from any cause, water aspiration, trauma, equipment difficulties, environmental hazards, inappropriate response to an emergency or failure to manage the gas supply.\n\nThe data gathered in relation to the actual causes of death is changing. Although drowning and arterial gas embolisms are cited in the top three causes of diver deaths, stating these as solitary causes does not recognise any pre-existing health issues. Researchers may know the actual causes of death, but the sequence of events that led to the cause of death is often not clear, especially when local officials or pathologists make assumptions.\n\nIn many diving destinations, resources are not available for comprehensive investigations or complete autopsies, The 2010 DAN Diving Fatalities workshop noted that listing drowning as a cause of death is ineffective in determining what actually occurred in an incident, and that lack of information is the primary reason for personal injury lawsuits filed in the industry.\n\nIf the manner of death is deemed to be accidental (or due to misadventure, where this is applicable), which is usually the case, the incident leading to death is seldom analysed sufficiently to be useful in determining the probable sequence of events, particularly the triggering event, and therefore is not usually useful for improving diver safety.\n\nThe chain of events leading to diving fatalities is varied in detail, but there are common elements: a triggering event, which leads to a disabling or harmful event and causes a disabling injury, which may itself be fatal or lead to drowning. One or more of the four events may not be unidentifiable.\n\nDeath usually followed a sequence or combination of events, most of which may have been survivable in isolation. In the more than 940 fatality statistics studied by DAN over ten years, only one third of the triggers could be identified.\n\nDisabling agents were also identified in one third of the cases. The most common identified were:\n\nDisabling injuries were identified in nearly two thirds of the cases:\n\nThe \"DAN Annual Diving Report 2016 edition\" lists their Ten Most Wanted Improvements in Scuba as:\n\nThe ANZ survey found in 56% of fatalities and the DAN survey in 41%, that the diver was either running low or was out of gas. When equipment was tested following death, few victims had an ample gas supply remaining. The surveys indicated that most problems started when the diver became aware of a low on air situation. 8% of the divers died while trying to snorkel on the surface, apparently trying to conserve air. Concern about a shortage of air may affect the diver's ability to cope with a second problem which may develop during the dive, or may cause the diver to surface early and possibly alone in a stressed state of mind, where he is then unable to cope with surface conditions.\n\nIn the ANZ survey, 52% of the fatalities had buoyancy problems. Most of these were due to inadequate buoyancy, but 8% had excessive buoyancy. In the DAN survey buoyancy problems were the most common trigger event leading to death. Buoyancy changes associated with wetsuits were found to be a significant factor. Based on a formula for approximate weight requirement based on wetsuit style and thickness, 40% of the divers who died were found to be grossly over-weighted at the surface. This would have been aggravated by suit compression at depth.\n\nA correctly weighted diver should be neutrally buoyant at or near the surface with cylinders nearly empty. In this state, descent and ascent are equally easy. This requires the diver to be slightly negative at the start of the dive, but this and the buoyancy loss due to suit compression should be is easily compensated by partial inflation of the buoyancy compensator. The practice of over-weighting is dangerous at it may overwhelm the capacity of the buoyancy compensator and makes the buoyancy changes with depth more extreme and difficult to correct. A failure of the buoyancy compensator would be exacerbated. This dangerous practice is unfortunately promoted by some instructors as it expedites shallow water training and allows divers to learn to descend without fully learning the appropriate skills.\n\nIn a different survey on buddy diver fatality it was found that regardless of who was first to be low on air, the over-weighted diver was six times more likely to die.\nIn spite of being heavily reliant on their buoyancy compensators, many divers also misused them. Examples of this include accidental inflation or over-inflation causing rapid uncontrolled ascents, confusion between the inflation and dump valves, and inadequate or slow inflation due to being deep or low on air. The drag caused by a buoyancy compensator inflated to offset the weight belt can contribute to exhaustion in divers attempting to swim to safety on the surface. The American Academy of Underwater Sciences reported in 1989 that half the cases of decompression sickness were related to loss of buoyancy control. When twin-bladder buoyancy compensators are used, confusion as to how much gas is in each bladder can lead to a delay in appropriate response, by which time control of the ascent may have already been lost. \n\n90% of the fatalities did not ditch their weights. Those on the surface had to swim towards safety carrying several kilograms of unnecessary weight, which made staying at the surface more difficult than it needed to be. In some fatalities the weights had been released but became entangled. In other cases, the belt could not be released because it was worn under other equipment, or the release buckle was inaccessible because a weight had slid over it, or it had rotated to the back of the body. Other fatalities have occurred where release mechanisms have failed.\n\nIn spite of the general acceptance, teaching and recommendation of the buddy system by most, if not all diver certification organisations, only 14% of divers who died still had their buddy with them at the time. In a Hawaiian study 19% of the fatalities died with their buddy present. In the ANZ study 33% of the fatalities either dived alone or voluntarily separated from their buddies before the incident, 25% separated after a problem developed and 20% were separated by the problem. In the DAN study, 57% of those who started diving with a buddy were separated at the time of death.\n\nA common cause of separation was one diver running low on air and leaving their buddy to continue the dive alone. In some cases more than two divers dived together, without adequate team planning, leading to confusion as to who was responsible for whom. Groups of divers following a dive leader without formal buddy pairing before the dive would be split into pairs to surface by the dive leader as they reached low air status. This would frequently pair the least experienced and competent divers for the ascent including those over-breathing due to anxiety.\n\nIn others cases, the survivor was leading the victim and not immediately aware of the problem. It is common for the more experienced diver to lead, and also common for the follower not to remain in a position where he can easily be monitored, so the follower may only get intermittent attention and may be inconveniently situated when something goes wrong. By the time the lead diver notices the absence of the buddy it may be too late to assist.\nIn a minority of cases the buddy was present at the time of death. In 1% of cases the buddy died attempting rescue.\n\n4% of fatalities were associated with failed buddy breathing.\n\nIn a study of failed buddy breathing conducted by NUADC, more than half were attempted at depths greater than 20 metres. In 29% the victim's mask was displaced, and a lung over-pressure injury occurred in 12.5% of cases. One in 8 victims refused to return the demand valve, however, donating a regulator rarely results in the donor becoming the victim. The use of a secondary (octopus regulator) second stage or a completely separate emergency air supply (bailout cylinder)would appear to be a safer alternative.\n\nA survey of DAN America members during 2000 to 2006 indicated a low incidence of cardiac-related fatalities in divers less than 40 years old. The rates increased until about 50 years old and stabilised for older divers at a relative risk of approximately 13 times greater than for younger divers. Relative risk for older divers was also found to be greater for asphyxia (3.9 times) and arterial gas embolism (2.5 times). Relative risk between males and females reduced from about 6 to 1 at 25 years to even at 65 years. DAN Europe figure follow a similar trend.\n\nThe victim had a pre-existing condition which would widely be considered a contraindication to diving in about 25% of fatalities. Some disorders have no demonstrable pathology and are easily overlooked in an investigation, which results in incomplete understanding of the incident. Drowning can obscure some pathologies which may then not show up at autopsy.\n\nA large percentage (40 to 60%) of deaths in the Edmonds summary were associated with panic, a psychological reaction to stress which is characterized by irrational and unhelpful behaviour, which reduces the chances of survival. Panic typically occurs when a susceptible diver is in a threatening and unfamiliar situation, such as running out of breathing gas, or loss of ability to control depth, and is commonly complicated by inappropriate response to the triggering situation, which generally makes the situation worse. Evidence of panic is derived from behavioural reports from eyewitnesses.\n\nFatigue was a factor in a significant number of cases (28% according to Edmonds). Fatigue is caused by excessive exertion, is aggravated by physical unfitness, and reduces the reserves available for survival. Factors cited as causes of fatigue include excessive drag due to over-weighting, drag due to over-inflation of the BCD, and long surface swims in adverse sea conditions, and it was not restricted to unfit divers. Fatigue was also associated with salt-water aspiration syndrome, cardiac problems and asthma.\n\nSalt water aspiration was a factor in 37% of cases in the Edmonds summary. This refers to inhalation of a small amount of sea water by the conscious diver, often in the form of spray. Salt water aspiration may be caused by regulator a leak, rough conditions on the surface, or residual water in the regulator after regulator recovery or buddy breathing. Salt water aspiration may cause respiratory distress, fatigue or panic and other complications.\n\nAutopsy evidence of pulmonary barotrauma was found in 13% of the cases summarised by Edmonds et al. This was sometimes a complicating factor, but at other times the direct cause of death. Factors associated with pulmonary barotrauma include panic, rapid buoyant ascent, asthma and regulator failure. In half of these cases a cause for the barotrauma was identified, but a roughly equal number remain unexplained.\n\nIn cases where the Edmonds summary found cardiac failure was implicated there was either gross cardiac pathology or a clinical indication of cardiac disease in the autopsy findings. 26% of deaths in the DAN studies were due to cardiac failure. 60% of these victims complained of chest pain, dyspnoea or feeling unwell before or during the dive. Cardiac causes are implicated in about 45% of scuba deaths in divers over 40 years old, and they tend to be relatively experienced divers, frequently with a history of cardiac disease or high blood pressure. The associated triggers include exercise, drugs, hypoxia from salt water aspiration, cardio-pulmonary reflexes, respiratory abnormalities, restrictive dive suits and harness, and cold exposure.\n\nin at least 9% of fatalities in the ANZ survey cited by Edmonds et al. the diver was asthmatic, and in at least 8% of the cases asthma contributed to the death. In other surveys this correlation is not so clear. Surveys have shown that between 0.5% and 1% of recreational divers are asthmatics. Edmonds considers that the statistics imply that asthma is a significant risk factor and that asthmatics should not be permitted to dive. This opinion was prevalent for a long time, but recent studies by DAN suggest that asthma may be managed successfully in some cases. Factors contributing to death in this group include panic, fatigue and salt water aspiration, and the cause of death was usually drowning or pulmonary barotrauma. The diving environment can provoke or aggravate asthma in several ways, such as salt water aspiration, breathing cold dry air, strenuous exertion, hyperventilation. and high work of breathing.\n\nIn 10% of the cases summarised by Edmonds et al., vomiting initiated or contributed to the accident. It was often caused by sea sickness or salt water aspiration or ingestion, but ear problems and alcohol were also cited as causes.\n\nNitrogen narcosis was cited as a contributory or triggering factor in 9% of cases reviewed by Edmonds et al., but was never the sole cause of death.\n\nRespiratory disease\n\nDrugs\n\nDecompression sickness\n\nEdmonds et al. (2014) suggest that a significant percentage of deaths are associated with equipment failure (35%) or misuse (35%), while the diving fatalities workshop of 2012 found that equipment failure \"per se\" was uncommon. This is not necessarily contradictory, as they include incompetent operation under equipment failure and specify overlap between malfunction and misuse.\n\nIn 14% of deaths there was a regulator fault reported, and in 1% the regulator was misused. Subsequent testing of the regulators showed that most of the problems were caused by leaks resulting in inhalation of salt water, but in some cases there was excessive breathing resistance following a mechanical dysfunction. In a few cases the regulator failed catastrophically, or the hose burst. The difficulty of breathing from the regulator was often aggravated by other factors such as panic, exhaustion or badly adjusted buoyancy.\n\nIn 8% of cases the buoyancy compensator malfunctioned. This was usually due to a problem with the inflator mechanism, but in some cases the BCD could not stay inflated. In 6% of the fatalities, the buoyancy compensator was not used competently, usually by overinflation which caused an uncontrolled ascent, or deflating when more buoyancy was required at the surface. Overweighting can also be classified as misuse of equipment.\n\nEdmonds et al. found that 13% of victims lost one or both fins. This was sometimes due to defective or ill fitting fins, but in most cases the cause was not apparent. In 12% of deaths there were problems associated with the cylinder, usually from user error, such as use of an underfilled or undersized cylinder, the cylinder becoming unsecured from the harness, and failure to open the cylinder valve. In less than 5% of fatalities, there were problems due to malfunction or misuse of weight belt (excluding overweighting which is not a failure of the equipment), harness, mask, exposure suit, submersible pressure gauges and entanglement in lines deployed by the diver.\n\nEdmonds et al. indicate that 25% of fatal incidents started at the surface, and 50% of the divers died at the surface. In many cases they divers surfaced because they ran out of breathing air.\n\nDifficult water conditions were implicated in 36% of fatalities in the Edmonds et al. summary. These included current stronger than the diver could manage, rough water, surf, surge from wave movement, and impaired visibility caused by these conditions. These conditions were frequently encountered when the diver was obliged to surface in an unsuitable place due to earlier problems, and were often exacerbated by overweighting and/or the high drag of an excessively inflated buoyancy compensator, leading to exhaustion or panic which resulted in drowning.\n\nExcessive depth was considered a factor in 12% of fatalities summarized by Edmonds et al. The fatal dive was often the deepest ever for the victim. Greater depth can expose a diver to factors such as increased air consumption, impaired judgment caused by nitrogen narcosis, colder water, reduced thermal insulation of a compressed wetsuit, reduced visibility and lighting, slower response of buoyancy compensator inflation, increased work of breathing, greater heat loss when using helium mixtures, higher risk of decompression sickness and a necessarily prolonged ascent time.\n\nOther environmental factors cited as contributory to fatalities include caves, marine animal injury (including shark and other animal bites, and marine stings, difficulties entering and exiting the water, cold, entanglements, entrapment, and night diving.\n\nThe DAN fatalities workshop of 2011 found that there is a real problem that divers do not follow the procedures they have been trained in, and dive significantly beyond their training experience and fitness levels, and that this the basic cause of most accidents. In litigation involving diving accident, the legal panel reported that 85% to 90% of the cases were attributable to diver error. This is consistent with several scientific studies. Medical issues are a significant part of the problem, and certified divers are responsible for assessing their own fitness and ability to do any particular dive. Experience was also cited as a significant factor, with occasional divers at higher risk than regular divers, and the majority of fatalities had only entry level or slightly higher qualification (\"Advanced open-water diver\" certification is included in this grouping).\n\nDiving fatality investigations are intended to find the cause of death by identifying causative factors. Three main areas of investigation are common: \n\nLack of solid information about the underlying causes of diving accidents and fatalities creates uncertainty, and this is the principal factor leading to litigation, higher insurance premiums, massive litigation costs and ultimately the continued loss of life.\n\nThere is usually some form of investigation following a diving fatality. There may be several investigators representing different parties. Police are likely to look for evidence of homicide, The maritime safety authority will investigate in cases where a death occurs while diving from a vessel. When the fatality involves a person at work, the occupational health and safety authority may investigate, and investigators from the deceased's, insurance company and the dive operator and certification agency's insurance companies are likely to be involved.\n\nIn most cases, the investigation takes place some time after the event. In cases where death has already occurred, the police may meet the boat, or travel to a shore site. An investigation by someone representing a sector of the diving industry may not take place until weeks or even months after the incident. It depends on how soon the event is reported, how long the paperwork takes, how soon the insurance carrier appoints an investigator and availability of a suitable investigator. No matter how quickly an investigation is launched, in most cases the body will have been recovered and resuscitation attempted, equipment will have been removed and possibly damaged or lost, and the people at the site returned to their homes. The equipment may have been mishandled by authorities who are unfamiliar with the gear and have stored it improperly, compromising the evidence.\n\nPeople who would be likely to be considered witnesses include:\n\nEquipment testing is an important part of dive accident and fatality analysis. As stakeholders in the community have different and occasionally conflicting needs when it comes to such testing, tests should be done as soon as possible to avoid degradation of evidence, and the testing should be done by impartial investigators, with all relevant equipment treated as evidence and legally acceptable procedures for controlling custody of the evidence. Currently the procedures for equipment testing after diving accidents are poorly standardized. Important procedural items include when testing should be conducted, who is responsible for the testing, what equipment should be tested and what tests should be done.\nThis requires appropriate training of first responders and law enforcement agencies, availability of testing equipment, development of suitable test protocols, and funding to conduct the testing. Procedures for testing rebreathers differ from those for testing open circuit equipment.\n\nLife-support equipment is an integral part of diving, and dive equipment is generally robust and reliable, but bad maintenance, design flaws, improper use, or other factors may cause or contribute to an incident. When equipment issues are not contributory to an incident, they should be excluded so that the causative factors may be correctly determined.\n\nIf diving fatalities are thoroughly investigated it may be possible to determine a trigger, or root cause, for the accident. Data collection and analysis allows identification of the most common triggers and contributing factors associated with fatal diving incidents. Forensic autopsies go beyond the detailed description of the internal organs and include a thorough external examination looking for injuries, injury patterns, trace evidence and clues to how the body and the environment may have interacted. Diving deaths are relatively uncommon, and may be unfamiliar to the pathologist.\n\nThe forensic pathologist also needs to understand the limitations of autopsy findings in diving-related deaths and realize that there are common postmortem artifacts that can be misinterpreted, resulting in erroneous conclusions. James Carruso, Regional Armed Forces Medical Examiner, Navy Recruiting Command 2011\n\nScuba diving fatalities have a major financial impact by way of lost income, lost business, insurance premium increases and high litigation costs.\n\nThe lack of reliable and reasonably complete information about the underlying causes of diving fatalities \ncreates uncertainty. Inaccurate findings following autopsies where the examiner had no experience in diving fatalities and had not followed the relevant protocols are common, and in the majority of cases the primary causative factors are never identified, leading to opportunistic litigation.\n"}
{"id": "48941272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48941272", "title": "Serious case review", "text": "Serious case review\n\nA serious case review (SCR) in England is held after a child or vulnerable adult dies or is seriously injured under circumstances where abuse or neglect are thought to have been involved. Its purpose is to learn lessons to help prevent future similar incidents. Similar procedures in other countries of the UK are called child practice reviews in Wales, case management reviews in Northern Ireland, and significant case reviews in Scotland. An SCR should be held if abuse or neglect is suspected to have been involved, a child has died or been seriously harmed and if there are concerns about the way organisations or professionals worked together to safeguard the child.\n\nThe Local Safeguarding Children Boards (LSCB) follow statutory guidance for conducting a serious case review in which the different professionals and organisations involved and the family are represented. The SCR should be completed within six months.\n\nAn SCR may also be commissioned following the death or injury of a vulnerable adult. For example, in 2010 Warwickshire County Council commissioned an SCR following the death of 27-year old Gemma Hayter, because \"a vulnerable adult had died and abuse or neglect is known or\nsuspected to be a factor in the death; and the case gives rise to concerns about the way in which local professionals and/or services work together to safeguard vulnerable adults\".\n"}
{"id": "354077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354077", "title": "Suspended animation", "text": "Suspended animation\n\nSuspended animation is the inducement of a temporary cessation or decay of main body functions, including the brain, to a hypometabolic state in order to try to preserve its mental and physiological capabilities.\n\nAs a theoretical concept, it has been included in a wide range of fiction books and films but has not been implemented as a medical procedure for either short or extended time.\n\nSuspended animation has been understood as the slowing or stopping of life processes by exogenous or endogenous means without terminating life itself. Breathing, heartbeat and other involuntary functions may still occur, but they can only be detected by artificial means. For this reason, this procedure has been associated with a lethargic state in nature when animals or plants appear, over a period, to be dead but then can wake up or prevail without suffering any harm. This has been termed in different contexts hibernation, dormancy or anabiosis (this last in some aquatic invertebrates and plants in scarcity conditions).\n\nThis condition of apparent death or interruption of vital signs may be similar to a medical interpretation of suspended animation. It is only possible to recover signs of life if the brain and other vital organs suffer no cell deterioration, necrosis or molecular death principally caused by oxygen deprivation or excess temperature (especially high temperature).\n\nSome examples of people that have returned from this apparent interruption of life lasting over half an hour, two hours, eight hours or more while adhering to these specific conditions for oxygen and temperature have been reported and analysed in depth, but these cases are not considered scientifically valid. The brain begins to die after five minutes without oxygen; nervous tissues die intermediately when a \"somatic death\" occurs while muscles die over one to two hours following this last condition.\n\nIt has been possible to obtain a successful resuscitation and recover life in some instances, including after anaesthesia, heat stroke, electrocution, narcotic poisoning, heart attack or cardiac arrest, shock, newborn infants, cerebral concussion, cholera, and voluntarily as in yogis.\n\nSupposedly, in suspended animation, a person technically would not die, as long as he or she were able to preserve the minimum conditions in an environment extremely close to death and return to a normal living state. An example of such a case is Anna Bågenholm, a Swedish radiologist who allegedly survived 40 minutes under ice in a frozen lake in a state of cardiac arrest and survived with no brain damage in 1999.\n\nOther cases of hypothermia where people survived without damage are:\n\n\nSince the 1970s, induced hypothermia has been performed for some open-heart surgeries as an alternative to heart-lung machines. Hypothermia, however, provides only a limited amount of time in which to operate and there is a risk of tissue and brain damage for prolonged periods.\n\nThere are many research projects currently investigating how to achieve \"induced hibernation\" in humans. This ability to hibernate humans would be useful for a number of reasons, such as saving the lives of seriously ill or injured people by temporarily putting them in a state of hibernation until treatment can be given.\n\nThe primary focus of research for human hibernation is to reach a state of torpor, defined as a gradual physiological inhibition to reduce oxygen demand and obtain energy conservation by hypometabolic behaviors altering biochemical processes. In previous studies, it was demonstrated that physiological and biochemical events could inhibit endogenous thermoregulation before the onset of hypothermia in a challenging process known as \"estivation.\" This is indispensable to survive harsh environmental conditions, as seen in some amphibians and reptiles.\n\nLowering the temperature of a substance reduces chemical activity by the Arrhenius equation. This includes life processes such as metabolism.\n\nIn June 2005, scientists at the University of Pittsburgh's Safar Center for Resuscitation Research announced they had managed to place dogs in suspended animation and bring them back to life, most of them without brain damage, by draining the blood out of the dogs' bodies and injecting a low temperature solution into their circulatory systems, which in turn keeps the bodies alive in stasis. After three hours of being clinically dead, the dogs' blood was returned to their circulatory systems, and the animals were revived by delivering an electric shock to their hearts. The heart started pumping the blood around the body, and the dogs were brought back to life.\n\nOn 20 January 2006, doctors from the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston announced they had placed pigs in suspended animation with a similar technique. The pigs were anaesthetized and major blood loss was induced, along with simulated - via scalpel - severe injuries (e.g. a punctured aorta as might happen in a car accident or shooting). After the pigs lost about half their blood the remaining blood was replaced with a chilled saline solution. As the body temperature reached the damaged blood vessels were repaired and the blood was returned. The method was tested 200 times with a 90% success rate.\n\nFrom May 2014, a team of surgeons from UPMC Presbyterian Hospital in Pittsburgh plan to try the above method in gunshot victims (or those suffering from similar traumatic injuries). The trials will be done on ten such severely wounded patients and compared with ten others in similar situation but who had no access to the above method. They currently refer to the procedure as Emergency Preservation and Resuscitation for Cardiac Arrest from trauma.\n\nThis concept is speculative as well as frequently misunderstood. Human beings are unable to survive suspended animation at cryogenic (extremely cold) temperatures naturally. The limits of current technology are also insufficient to prevent loss of cellular viability. Cryonics operates under a fundamentally distinct paradigm from suspended animation in that it depends on future technology as part of its premise for working. It is not currently possible to preserve mental capacities and memories by this method and only currently to cells and microorganisms.\n\nIn order to achieve suspended animation, a reliable method to prevent damage to cells would be needed. Vitrification can achieve this in the laboratory only for small amounts of tissue due to cooling and other physical limits combined with cryoprotectant toxicity. There is also only limited evidence that it is possible in principle, because only very small organisms can be vitrified or frozen safely. Research on \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" has shown that memories can be recovered, and such organisms can survive vitrification with around 100% success rates.\n\nSome Research institutes like Roth Lab founded by Mark Roth have studied seriously the possibility of suspended animation, originally for chromosome isolation, and diagnosing several illnesses like cancer.\n\nAn article in the 22 April 2005 issue of the scientific journal \"Science\" reports success towards inducing suspended animation-like hypothermia in mice. The findings are significant, as mice do not hibernate in nature.\n\nThe laboratory of Mark B. Roth at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington, placed the mice in a chamber containing 80 ppm hydrogen sulfide for a duration of 6 hours. The core body temperature of the mice dropped to 13 degrees Celsius and metabolism, as assayed by carbon dioxide production and oxygen use, decreased 10-fold. They also induced hypoxia on nematode embryos and zebrafish embryos, placing them in suspended animation for hours, and then re-animating them simply by returning the oxygen to the embryos.\n\nIn trauma, the Roth laboratory and institutes such as Suspended Animation, Inc are trying to implement suspended animation as a medical procedure which involves the therapeutic induction to a complete and temporary systemic ischemia, directed to obtain a state of tolerance for the protection-preservation of the entire organism, this during a circulatory collapse \"only by a limited period of one hour\". The purpose to avoid a serious injury, risk of brain damage or death, until the patient reaches specialized attention.\n\nMassachusetts General Hospital in Boston announced they had been able to hibernate mice using the same method. Their heart rate was slowed down from 500 to 200 beats per minute, respiration fell from 120 to 25 breaths per minute and body temperature dropped to 30 °C (natural: 39 °C). After 2 hours of breathing air without hydrogen sulfide the mice returned to normal. Further studies are needed to see if the gas had damaging effects on the brain, considering the effect of hydrogen sulfide on the body is similar to hydrogen cyanide; it does not slow the metabolic rate but rather inhibits the transfer of energy within the cell via ATP.\n\nExperiments on sedated sheep and partially ventilated anesthetized pigs have been unsuccessful, suggesting that application to large mammals may not be feasible. In any case, long term suspended animation has not been attempted.\n\n"}
{"id": "19636662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19636662", "title": "Swaminarayan Gurukul", "text": "Swaminarayan Gurukul\n\nShree Swaminarayan Gurukul is an educational organisation headquartered in Rajkot. It was established in 1947 in Rajkot by Sadguru Shastri Shri Dharmajivandasji Swami. This organization comes under the LaxmiNarayan Dev Gadi of the Swaminarayan Sampraday.\n\nThe goal of the organisation is spreading \"Sadvidya\" or ‘Good and True education’ propagated by Swaminarayan. The organisation aims to imbibe the essence of Indian cultural heritage through ten branches across India, namely Rajkot, Junagadh, Surat, Navsari, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Taravada, Bangalore, Narmada, Lonavala, Vidyanagar, Gulbarga, Morbi, Gyanbag, Raipur, Bidar, Jadcherla, Nagpur, Solapur & Vijayawada. Its international branches include Dallas (Texas, United States), Phoenix (United States), New Jersey (United States) Arlington-Heights, Illinois United States and Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic).\n\n"}
{"id": "1218539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218539", "title": "Sydney Parkinson", "text": "Sydney Parkinson\n\nSydney Parkinson (c. 1745 – 26 January 1771) was a Scottish botanical illustrator and natural history artist. He was the first European artist to visit Australia, New Zealand and Tahiti.\n\nParkinson was employed by Joseph Banks to travel with him on James Cook's first voyage to the Pacific in 1768, in HMS Endeavour. Parkinson made nearly a thousand drawings of plants and animals collected by Banks and Daniel Solander on the voyage. He had to work in difficult conditions, living and working in a small cabin surrounded by hundreds of specimens. In Tahiti he was plagued by swarms of flies which ate the paint as he worked. He died at sea on the way to Cape Town of dysentery contracted at Princes' Island off the western end of Java. Banks paid his outstanding salary to his brother.\n\nParkinson is commemorated in the common and scientific name of the Parkinson's petrel \"Procellaria parkinsoni\". The great Florilegium of his work was finally published in 1988 by Alecto Historical Editions in 35 volumes and has since been digitized by the Natural History Museum in London.\n\nIn 1986 he was honoured on a postage stamp depicting his portrait issued by Australia Post \n\nThe following are some examples of Parkinson's artistic work:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14309495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14309495", "title": "USS Annie (1863)", "text": "USS Annie (1863)\n\nUSS \"Annie\" (1862) was a schooner captured by the Union Navy during the American Civil War. She was used by the Union Navy as a ship's tender in support of the Union Navy blockade of Confederate waterways.\n\nOn the evening of 26 February 1863, armed boats commanded by Acting Master Robert B. Smith from the Union sidewheel steamer captured \"Anna\" while that schooner was attempting to slip through the blockade and enter the Suwannee River with a widely varied cargo from the Bahamas. The prize's master, Capt. H. Hanson, acknowledged that he was \"...endeavoring to run the blockade.\"\n\nThe report of this action does not mention that the prize had ever carried any other name. However, later records maintain that she had been called \"La Criala\" when captured and was renamed \"Anna\" at the beginning of her service in the Union Navy. A schooner called \"La Criolla\" had been captured by the Union sidewheeler some 25 miles southeast of the Charleston, South Carolina, bar and, subsequently, had been condemned and sold by the Federal prize court at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is possible that the purchaser of \"La Criolla\" renamed her \"Anna\" and she was the vessel captured on 26 February 1863 by \"Fort Henry\". If so, she had been built, according to an inspecting officer from \"Bienville\", \"...in one of the Northern States in the year 1857, and was [originally] named \"Nora\".\" However, evidence that this was the case is far from conclusive.\n\n\"Anna\" was condemned by the Key West, Florida, prize court and the Union Navy purchased her on 11 March 1863 for service in the East Gulf Blockading Squadron. Her name first appeared on the list of vessels composing that squadron in a report dated the 16th and bore the notation, \"Tender to \"Dole\", fitting out.\"\n\nBy 1 April 1863, she had begun her active service and was stationed at Boca Grande. However, for some unknown reason, the vessel's name appeared as \"Annie\" and so it remained throughout her naval service. Almost a year later, on 8 March 1864, the squadron commanding officer, Acting Rear Admiral Theodorus Bailey, explained this discrepancy to the Navy Department.\n\nThe tender referred to, when captured, was called \"Anna\", but she has, by some inadvertence, been always called the \"Annie\", since being taken into the service of the Government, and I am of the opinion that it would be more convenient to preserve the name of \"Annie\".\n\nOn the morning of the 13th, \"Annie\"—Acting Ensign James S. Williams in command—took her first prize, the schooner \"Mattie\" which was attempting to run into the Crystal River, Florida, with a diverse cargo. Williams placed a crew on board the prize and sent her to Key West in charge of Master's Mate Marcellus Jackson.\n\nAbout half an hour before noon on 28 April, \"Annie\" sighted, chased, and fired upon \"Dream\" before that British schooner escaped into Spanish territorial waters off Cuba. This action prompted a protest by the English master and added to the already large list of incidents that kept relations between the Federal Government and the United Kingdom tense throughout the Civil War.\n\n\"Annie\" scored again while proceeding to Tampa Bay on 11 July when she took the whaleboat \"Alice\" and her crew of six—from Havana, Cuba—behind Cotteral's Key. Williams had been informed of the presence of the boat by the keeper of the Northwest Channel lighthouse who feared that she might attack his outpost. Another prize came \"Annie's\", way on the afternoon of 20 October when she captured the British schooner \"Martha Jane\", outward-bound from Bayport, Florida, laden with cotton. Ten days later, \"Annie\" joined the armed launch of the screw gunboat —which she was then tending—in chasing \"Meteor\" and caught that British schooner which was attempting to slip into Bayport, Florida, with an assorted cargo from Havana. \"Annie\" and the launch again teamed up on 7 November when they took the British schooner \"Paul\" which—although cleared from Havana for Matamoras—was approaching the Florida coast with diverse merchandise.\n\nIn the second half of February 1864, \"Annie\" left \"Sagamore\" and was attached to the screw gunboat \"Takoma\"; and, thereafter, she acted as a tender to several other Union blockaders.\n\nOn the morning of 2 March 1864, \"Annie\" anchored at 9:00 a.m., some five miles from land. Two hours later, a lookout reported having sighted a small boat approaching. At noon, the boat reversed course and fled, prompting the Union warship to give chase. Thirty minutes' sailing brought her within sight of \". . .a schooner inside the reefs\" and toward which the boat was rowing. At 1:10 p.m., \"Annie\" \". . .anchored in 6 feet of water . . .\" and sent an armed boat to board the schooner. However, the fleeing boat reached that vessel before the Yankee sailors boarded her, set her afire, and then hurried on shoreward. At 2:00 p.m., \"Annie's\" men went on board the schooner and found her to a new vessel of about 80 tons carrying an assorted cargo which included a large amount of ammunition. The rapid spread of the flames forced them to leave the prize which exploded about three minutes after their departure.\n\nLater that afternoon, a skiff flying a white flag came alongside \"Annie\". Its sole passenger, a man who \". . .identified himself as Allen A. Stephens. . .\" and reported that he was one of a group of 20 men \"about to rise against the rebel Government...and requested arms for his company.\" After promising Allen to report the incident, they allowed him to return to land, but no further mention of this man appears in the Official Record.\n\nDuring the remainder of 1864, \"Annie\" continued to serve in the blockade of Florida's Gulf Coast. On 30 December 1864, she departed Key West and headed for Charlotte Harbor on Florida′s west coast for further blockade duty. In January 1865, about two weeks after she left Key West, her hulk was found resting on the bottom in about six fathoms (36 feet; 11 meters) of water. She was a total wreck, apparently the victim of an explosion; and no trace of her crew was found.\n\n"}
{"id": "2522130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522130", "title": "Universal code (ethics)", "text": "Universal code (ethics)\n\nIn ethics, a \"universal code of ethics\" is a system of ethics that can apply to every sentient being.\n\nKant believed that what created the problem of ethical behavior is the duality of human nature. Since humans are both sensible and intellectual, and at the same time motivated by impulse, they must be guided by rules of conduct to balance the two. He believed that everyone could decide right or wrong based on the will behind the action, rather than the action itself. In deciding whether one's actions were moral, he said it should be considered what the universal benefit would be if everyone behaved in such a fashion. For example, if everyone stole, the result would be chaos and violence. Therefore, a moral person would consider it unethical to steal. In abiding by these laws, it is possible to see how a universal code of ethics could be built up.\n\nHowever, men like Marx and Engels believed that there could be no universal code of ethics because all ethics and philosophy are relative to the economical situations of each individual society. Therefore, each society would create its own system of ethics based on its economic status and history, and the current system of ethics would soon give way to a new one. Thus all morals and ethics are relative.\n\nLater codes of ethics, such as that of Max Stirner, stated that the only ethics that existed were those that benefited the self. The common good and the love of one's fellow man, he claimed, were only illusory. Men who were exceptional in some way (intelligence or rank) were always the exception to moral standards. Nietzsche founded his ethical principles on this basis; he believed that everything powerful men did was defined as moral.\n\nThere are several ethical standards that are considered to be self-evident, and seem to apply to all people throughout all of history, regardless of cultural, political, social, or economic context. The non-aggression principle, which prohibits aggression, or the initiation of force or violence against another person, is a universal ethical principle. Examples of aggression include murder, rape, kidnapping, assault, robbery, theft, and vandalism. On the other hand, the commission of any of such acts in response to aggression does not necessarily violate universal ethics.\n\nThere are obvious reasons why universal ethics are beneficial to society. For example, if people were allowed to kill or steal, this would lead to widespread chaos and violence, and would be detrimental to the well-being of society. Most people agree that it's better to prohibit aggression than to allow everyone to commit it. Therefore, aggression is intrinsically immoral. Although nearly all societies have laws prohibiting aggression, this does not mean that universal ethics are necessarily reflected by that society's government or its dominant ideology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3963385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3963385", "title": "Visitors (fictional race)", "text": "Visitors (fictional race)\n\nThe Visitors are a fictional invading alien race from the \"V\" franchise. The \"Visitors\" are reptilian humanoids who disguise themselves to look human but prefer to eat live prey, such as mice. In the 1983 and 1984 miniseries (but not the 1984 TV series) the disguised Visitors can be told apart from humans by a reverberating echo in their voices. The re-imagined 2009 versions lack that vocal attribute and thus appear more human. Since the Visitors of both versions are reptilian in origin and nature, females reproduce by laying eggs after mating that eventually hatch into infant aliens.\n\nAll Visitors are given human names for the humans' convenience. They are never heard to use their home-world names.\n\nThe Leader (or commonly referred to by the Visitors as \"Our Great Leader\") is the head of a military dictatorship that controls the population on Sirius 4 and controls every resource and ship-of-the-line in the entire Sirian Fleet through its ministers. The Leader is constantly mentioned, but never seen; however, in the final episode, he actually has dialogue when we hear him (offscreen) speaking to Elizabeth. In most references to the Leader, the character is described as male, but the descriptions in \"The Second Generation\" refer to the Leader as a female entity.\n\nJohn (Richard Herd) is introduced in \"V\". \nThe Supreme Commander of the fleet of Visitor ships. John is charismatic and likeable, evidently well-trained or well-prompted in public relations. He is the first Visitor that humans see, showing that they are just like humans. However, John is usually extremely busy touring the fleet attending to command issues, or reclusive when not needed to promote good will to the people of Earth. His appearance at the Los Angeles Medical Center on a worldwide broadcast to announce a cure for cancer is used by the Resistance to unmask him and show the people of Earth that the Visitors have been deceiving them.\nHowever it quickly becomes clear that John is something of a bureaucrat, enjoying the limelight and privileges that being a Supreme Commander brings but is considered by some (including Diana) to be \"a fool who makes pretty speeches\", while Diana organized the entire operation. John is later persuaded by Pamela to restrict Diana's command responsibilities. John is later killed by Diana when he refuses to carry out the Leader's order to destroy Earth when the Resistance routs the Visitors.\n\nPamela (Sarah Douglas) is introduced in \"V: The Final Battle\". She is the squadron commander and Diana's superior. She takes over command of the L.A. Mothership. Pamela's ship arrives at Earth a year into the occupation and begins a project to speed up acquisition of Earth's water. Pamela scorns Diana's claim of the leader's special favor, pointing out that Diana's \"lover\" sent Diana 56 trillion miles away. Diana kills Pamela after being ordered to work strictly in the scientific field.\n\nCharles (Duncan Regehr) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". Sent by The Leader to take over military operations from Diana and become the new Supreme Commander, Charles sets in motion the chain of events that lead to the death of Nathan Bates. Charles is a member of the House of Raman, a very powerful and influential family, possibly even royalty, he has the power to choose his own bride and marry her within twelve hours of the betrothal. He has a well-known reputation as a ladies man, appealing to all the women in the fleet, apart from Diana who resents him taking over her command. He is romantically attached to Lydia, although he drops her in favor of Diana, whom he decides to marry in order to force her to return to the Homeworld, and bear his offspring, having become annoyed at her defiance. However, when he sees Diana naked in a ceremonial bath before their wedding, he decides that he would rather keep Diana around, Lydia attempts to poison her, but ends up killing Charles instead.\n\nDiana (Jane Badler) is introduced in \"V\". Sadistic, ruthless and brilliant, her ambition is matched only by her arrogance and cruelty. She is the second-in-command, as well as John's chief science officer of the fleet of 50 Visitor ships. She is commander of the mother ship over Los Angeles (although for the first few days after arrival, she is aboard the New York mother ship). In V, Diana is responsible for much of the Visitors attacks against the Resistance as well as ordering one of her lovers, Brian, to impregnate Robin Maxwell as part of an experiment. In V: The Final Battle, which takes place a year later, Pamela, her squadron commander, arrives, reminding Diana of her inferior rank; Pamela decides to discredit Diana and remove her from any operational duties (it is implied they have a history). Diana later murders Pamela. It becomes clear that Diana is the real power behind the Visitors as she organises much or their events and attacks. She convinces Christine Walsh to become the Visitors spokesperson and later murders her when she pleas for the Resistance live on television, after John's real face is exposed and she has the loyalty and support of most of the fleet, except for Steven and Pamela who attempt to discredit her to advance their own agendas. At the end of the Final Battle when defeat is imminent, Diana chooses to destroy Earth rather than letting the Resistance claim victory, telling John he is a fool and angry at his bureaucracy. After murdering John she attempts to escape with Elizabeth, but ends up leaving by herself.\n\nWhen V: The Series begins, it takes place straight after Diana escapes, where she is quickly captured by Mike Donovan and imprisoned for a year before she is due to stand trial for crimes against humanity. However, during protests outside her trial, she is seemingly shot dead and taken to a hospital. However it is later revealed her capture was organized by Nathan Bates, owner of a large scientific institution, who offers her a deal; life, food and shelter if she shares Visitor knowledge with him. However she quickly escapes and is able to contact the Visitor fleet, who have been hiding behind Earth's moon in preparation for a second invasion. Diana immediately takes command of the fleet from chief security officer Lydia and leads the second invasion against Earth.\n\nAs Chief Science Officer of the fleet, Diana is a pioneer of the conversion process, a brainwashing technique used to turn humans to aid the Visitors, although it is not always effective. She has inoculated the Visitors against all known Earth diseases and has developed a fool proof truth drug. Steven and Pamela see her as \"on edge\" when feeling threatened, when Father Andrew shows her a bible, it makes Diana realise she has vulnerabilities, which she sees as a weakness, she responds by murdering the priest and destroying his bible. Her vengefulness is also displayed when she rejects John's pragmatic approach towards an impending defeat by murdering him.\n\nDiana, also being stunningly beautiful has several lovers in V: The Original Miniseries, V: The Final Battle and V: The Series; she is seen as using her sexuality and feminine wiles to have her way with men in order to elevate her position. She was even involved with the Leader of the Visitors, prior to their arrival on Earth with Pamela suggesting that sex is \"far too fragile a foundation\" to handle Diana's ambition. Diana finds most of the men she is involved with disposable, killing one of them so she can blame him for misinforming the Leader and repeatedly reminding Lt. James she can find any other man to alleviate her boredom if he doesn't do as she commands. (In the V novels, it is said that Diana has an insatiable appetite for sex with humans - of both genders.)\n\nIn V: The Series, she was forced to marry Charles, whom she cannot bear for promoting Lydia ahead of her, before a botched assassination attempt by Lydia against Diana resulted in his death, for which Diana and Lydia framed Marta. Diana is obsessed with capturing Elizabeth, or creating a new hybrid through cloning or other methods. She distrusts Lydia and tried several times to either kill Lydia or one of Lydia's close family members. When last seen, Diana has been placed under arrest by Philip, who does not know that Diana secretly planted a bomb on board the Leader's shuttle.\n\nDiana is considered the main breakout character of all three series of V.\n\nIn August 2010, ABC confirmed that Jane Badler will play the character of Diana. She later admitted that despite her prominence in the original series, she had to audition once more and eventually landed the part of Anna's mother, who has been locked up for 15 years because she believes that her mother's embrace of human emotion was a side effect of being \"infected\" by her human skin, and that such teachings represent a threat to her leadership. Her first appearance in the new series was in the ending of the season-opener \"Red Rain.\" In the series finale, \"Mother's Day\" Diana is killed by Anna after she is broken free from prison and tries to convince her people that the human soul is a gift.\n\nLydia (June Chadwick) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". Blonde and English-accented, she is commander of the fleet when Diana isn't in charge. \nAfter the Visitor home world became a barren wasteland, Lydia, the fleet security officer at the time, was promoted by the Leader himself and ordered to lead the fleet to Earth to commence the second invasion. At the same time Diana escaped and immediately took command of the fleet causing some resentment.\nShe is as power-hungry as Diana, but far less sadistic. Lydia tends to inform on Diana's exploits to The Leader and overseers such as Philip and Charles. Lydia finds Diana belligerent and defiant, ignoring rules and procedure. Finally when she tortures Jacob, a pacifist man decorated by the Leader, Lydia decides to report Diana to the Leader personally, however Diana blows up her shuttle.\n\nShe survives the assassination attempt by Diana and comes back with Charles, a Supreme Commander who takes charge of the Invasion and Lydia becomes his adjutant. She later falls in love with Charles and experiences extreme jealousy when he decides to marry Diana. She fills Diana's cup with poison but to her dismay, Charles drinks the poison instead and Lydia only narrowly escapes, with Diana's assistance, of being convicted of killing him. She is forced to help Diana to frame Marta for Charles' death.\n\nLydia's exact loyalties are unknown. She claims to serve only the Leader, however she also acts in her own best interests most likely to advance her own position or to get rid of Diana, however she lacks the cunning ruthlessness that Diana possesses. As Diana once told her, \"I take charge of the situation and you wait for permission\". Lydia is also an accomplished fighter, as she once defeated Diana in hand-to-hand combat. \nWhen the Leader declares an armistice, Lydia attempts to befriend the Resistance members and takes quite a delight in Diana's arrest.\n\nBrian (Peter Nelson) is introduced in \"V\". A young Visitor officer who becomes a leader of the Friends of the Visitors youth corps. As Daniel Bernstein continues to prove his devotion and loyalty, he becomes Brian's second-in-command. \nBrian befriends Robin Maxwell, and when she becomes a prisoner on the mother ship. Diana enlists him in an experiment in inter-species reproduction. Daniel is set up to be seen by the Visitors as Brian's betrayer when Brian is captured and used as a test subject for the red dust. As he tries to manipulate Robin into setting him free by trying to appeal to her \"love\" for him, a vengeful Robin uses the Red Dust on Brian right after showing Brian their child, Elizabeth.\n\nJake (Stack Pierce) is introduced in \"V\". He has the rank of Captain and the outward appearance of an African-American man. His unit captures both Robin and Robert Maxwell when they emerge from the downtown Resistance hideaway after curfew. He extracts the location of the mountain camp from Robert, but betrays Robert by leading an attack on the camp anyway, with Diana riding along. Jake is still serving in Diana’s command a year later.\n\nJames (Judson Scott) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". Lieutenant James is an opportunistic soldier and one of Diana's lovers. He is assigned to capture and destroy Resistance fighters no matter what the cost. He is loyal to Diana (though still always in fear of his life). He arranges an unsuccessful assassination attempt on The Leader and is last seen in custody alongside Diana.\n\nSteven (Andrew Prine) is introduced in \"V\". He is the security chief on board Diana's ship in Los Angeles. He establishes a relationship with Eleanor Dupres that he puts to use by bringing her into the fold as a collaborator and obtains information he feels is useful to his job.\nHe engages in a power struggle with Diana. They differ in how they wish to handle the unexpected resilience of the Resistance. Steven apparently kills Eleanor when she attempts to flee the Visitor embassy and he is killed by Ham Tyler - who dumps a mass of red dust on Steven's face and leaves him to die.\n\nMartin (Frank Ashmore) is a shuttle pilot who befriends Mike Donovan and his son, Sean. After the Visitors begin their reign of terror and Donovan is captured, Martin helps him escape. After Sean and his ex-wife Marjorie go missing — along with the majority of the townspeople — he goes up to the mothership again and confronts Martin about what the Visitors are really up to. He confesses that they've been stealing Earth's water supply, and that both Sean and Marjorie are alive. Unfortunately, he adds, they are being kept in suspended animation because, in addition to water, their planet also has another major shortage — food. Martin is opposed to the Leader's plans, but is afraid to offer Donovan any more than ancillary support, as the Fifth Column is not strong enough to exist openly. Much later, the Visitors use Sean to trade for Donovan. Once aboard Diana's mothership, she immediately tests out her new truth serum on him. Unable to resist, Donovan unwillingly names Martin as the head of the Fifth Column aboard her vessel. Martin manages to kill Diana's guard, but she gets away. With nowhere left to turn, he follows Donovan back to Earth where he joins other members of the Fifth column. Following the end of the war and Diana's capture, Martin becomes Donovan's cameraman. However, his sense of outrage that Diana will be tried at the Hague instead of executed outright gets the better of him, and he tracks her down, hoping to do the job himself. Unfortunately, Diana mortally wounds him, escaping with his last Red Dust pill and setting her jail on fire. Donovan arrives too late to save his friend.\n\nInspector General Phillip (Frank Ashmore) was introduced in the second half of \"V: The Series\". He came to investigate Lydia's reports of Diana's behavior and to find Mike Donovan, the man who supposedly murdered his twin brother, Martin. However, after confronting Donovan, he discovers that it was Diana who was Martin's killer. Eventually, he becomes friends with Donovan as well, and becomes a valuable ally of the Resistance.\n\nAngela (Leslie Bevis) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". A Visitor cadet, she killed another cadet during combat training and was dismissed by Philip for her sadism, thus preventing her from becoming an officer. Diana plays on Angela's resentment, assigning her as Philip's bodyguard on an assignment to capture Mike Donovan as part of her plan to have Philip killed. Angela is stopped from killing Philip when she is shot dead by Glenda.\n\nDaniel (Robert Thaler) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". He is a young officer who becomes Diana's lover. After the failure of one of her exploits, Diana kills him \"because someone has to take the blame\".\n\nDue to the episodes being aired out of order, the episode in which Daniel dies aired \"before\" the episode in which he was introduced.\n\nJohn Langley (Bruce Davison) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". He is the undercover agent assigned to infiltrate the Resistance and impregnate Robin Maxwell in hopes of creating a second Star Child, but he is killed by a Fifth Columnist before he can finish his mission.\n\nMarta (Gela Nash) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". She is the mother ship's pharmacist. She provided Lydia with the cat poison Lydia tried to use to kill Diana, but which killed Charles. Diana despises her and, with Lydia's reluctant assistance, frames her for Charles' murder. Marta is sentenced to be shot into space for eternity alongside Charles' decaying corpse in a space crypt. Diana orders Oswald to ensure that Marta is alive and conscious (\"if she stops breathing so do you\"); Marta wakes up next to the corpse just before the crypt leaves the ceremony site.\n\nNigel (Ken Olandt) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". Lydia's brother, he is brought to the Los Angeles Mothership as part of a scheme by Diana, who intends to have him sacrificed at a Visitor ceremony, but is thwarted by his sister and Philip.\n\nOswald (Peter Elbling) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". An underling of Diana, he is a mortician and an interior decorator. Diana had him \"procure\" several sexual partners for her pleasure (a job which he enjoyed immensely). He is very flamboyant and very openly homosexual but steered clear of what he considered stereotypical gay behavior such as \"bathousing and barbarism\", though this did not stop him from indulging in his taste for sexual pleasures in much the same manner as Diana. He favored human partners, as well as a host of unknown male Visitors, considering sex a type of art to be practiced.\n\nWillie (Robert Englund) was introduced in the first miniseries. He was a worker assigned to Arthur Dupres' chemical plant in Los Angeles. At first he had trouble adjusting to his new assignment (according to the novelization, his original name was Ahmed) and he had originally learned Arabic because he had been assigned to Saudi Arabia, and his human supervisor, Caleb Taylor, disliked him immensely. That changed once Willie rescued him after a liquid hydrogen pipe burst. Willie befriended a human, Harmony Moore, who helped him learn English. Unfortunately, she was killed during the Resistance's assault on Diana's ship. Following the end of the war, Willie settled down and worked as a waiter at Elias Taylor's restaurant, Club Creole, and served as mentor to Elizabeth Maxwell, the Starchild.\n\nMary (Sybil Danning) is introduced in \"V: The Series\". A Dallas-based Visitor, Mary attends a convention in Los Angeles to display the Encapsulator, a device of her own invention that will revolutionize the way in which humans are harvested for food. The resistance succeeds in blowing up the house in which the convention is being held, destroying the Encapsulator. Mary is killed in the explosion.\n\nIn the 2009 reimagining of \"V\", the Visitors actually infiltrated governments around the world prior to their official appearance, and instigated most of the wars in the late 20th century to make them appear as saviors to humanity. Their technology has also advanced to the point of allowing them to simultaneously telecast to the entire world via the motherships in every known Earth language. Unlike the original series, in which the Visitors' human \"skin\" was a latex-like material that could be easily ripped off without much pain, these Visitors seem to wear literal skin which can only be damaged or removed forcefully and painfully. Indeed, they have a high threshold for pain, and the only effective way to torture them is to skin them, which is ultimately lethal. They also practice sexual cannibalism as seen in Anna's case. The Visitors' reproductive ability of egg-laying is retained in this series, although the egg sacks laid by Anna appear more womb-like, gestating in liquid substances than those having shells like normal reptiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "142834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142834", "title": "Wallace Beery", "text": "Wallace Beery\n\nWallace Fitzgerald Beery (April 1, 1885 – April 15, 1949) was an American film actor. He is best known for his portrayal of Bill in \"Min and Bill\" (1930) opposite Marie Dressler, as Long John Silver in \"Treasure Island\" (1934), as Pancho Villa in \"Viva Villa!\" (1934), and his titular role in \"The Champ\" (1931), for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor. Beery appeared in some 250 films during a 36-year career. His contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer stipulated in 1932 that he would be paid $1 more than any other contract player at the studio, making him the highest-paid actor in the world. He was the brother of actor Noah Beery Sr. and uncle of actor Noah Beery Jr.\n\nFor his contributions to the film industry, Beery was posthumously inducted into the Hollywood Walk of Fame with a motion pictures star in 1960. His star is located at 7001 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nBeery was born the youngest of three boys in 1885 in Clay County, Missouri, near Smithville. The Beery family left the farm in the 1890s and moved to nearby Kansas City, Missouri, where the father was a police officer.\n\nWallace Beery attended the Chase School in Kansas City and took piano lessons as well, but showed little love for academic matters. He ran away from home twice, the first time returning after a short time, quitting school and working in the Kansas City train yards as an engine wiper. Beery ran away from home a second time at age 16, and joined the Ringling Brothers Circus as an assistant elephant trainer. He left two years later, after being clawed by a leopard.\n\nWallace Beery joined his older brother Noah in New York City in 1904, finding work in comic opera as a baritone and began to appear on Broadway as well as summer stock theatre. He appeared in \"The Belle of the West\" in 1905. His most notable early role came in 1907 when he starred in \"The Yankee Tourist\" to good reviews.\n\nIn 1913, he moved to Chicago to work for Essanay Studios. His first movie was likely a comedy short, \"His Athletic Wife\" (1913).\n\nBeery was then cast as Sweedie, a Swedish maid character he played in drag in a series of short comedy films from 1914-16. \"Sweedie Learns to Swim\" (1914) co-starred Ben Turpin. \"Sweedie Goes to College\" (1915) starred Gloria Swanson, whom Beery married the following year.\n\nOther Beery films (mostly shorts) from this period included \"In and Out\" (1914), \"The Ups and Downs\" (1914), \"Cheering a Husband\" (1914), \"Madame Double X\" (1914), \"Ain't It the Truth\" (1915), \"Two Hearts That Beat as Ten\" (1915), and \"The Fable of the Roistering Blades\" (1915).\n\n\"The Slim Princess\" (1915), with Francis X. Bushman, was a feature. Beery did \"The Broken Pledge\" (1915) and \"A Dash of Courage\" (1916), both with Swanson.\n\nBeery was a German soldier in \"The Little American\" (1917) with Mary Pickford, directed by Cecil B. De Mille. He did some comedies for Mack Sennett, \"Maggie's First False Step\" (1917) and \"Teddy at the Throttle\" (1917), but he would gradually leave that genre and specialize in portrayals of villains prior to becoming a major leading man during the sound era.\n\nIn 1917 Beery portrayed Pancho Villa in \"Patria\" at a time when Villa was still active in Mexico. (Beery reprised the role 17 years later in \"Viva Villa!\".)\n\nBeery was a villainous German in \"The Unpardonable Sin\" (1919) with Blanche Sweet. For Paramount he did \"The Love Burglar\" (1919) with Wallace Reid; \"Victory\" (1919), with Jack Holt; \"Behind the Door\" (1919), as another villainous German; and \"The Life Line\" (1919) with Holt.\n\nBeery was the villain in five major releases in 1920: \"813\"; \"The Virgin of Stamboul\" for director Tod Browning; \"The Mollycoddle\" with Douglas Fairbanks, in which Fairbanks and Beery fistfought as they tumbled down a steep mountain; and in the non-comedic Western \"The Round-Up\" starring Roscoe Arbuckle as an obese cowboy in a well-received serious film with the tagline \"Nobody loves a fat man.\" Beery continued his villainy cycle that year with \"The Last of the Mohicans\", playing Magua.\n\nBeery had a supporting part in \"The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse\" (1920) with Rudolph Valentino. He was a villainous Tong leader in \"A Tale of Two Worlds\" (1921) and was the bad guy again in \"Sleeping Acres\" (1922), \"Wild Honey\" (1922), and \"I Am the Law\" (1922), which also featured his brother Noah Beery Sr..\n\nBeery had a large then-rare heroic part as King Richard I (Richard the Lion-Hearted) in \"Robin Hood\" (1922), starring Douglas Fairbanks in the titular role. The movie was a huge success and subsequently spawned a sequel the following year starring Beery in the title role.\n\nBeery had an important unbilled cameo as \"the Ape-Man\" in \"A Blind Bargain\" (1922) starring Lon Chaney Sr., and a supporting role in \"The Flame of Life\" (1923). He played another historical king, King Philip IV of Spain in \"The Spanish Dancer\" (1923) with Pola Negri.\n\nBeery starred in an action melodrama, \"Stormswept\" (1923) for FBO Films alongside his elder brother, Noah Beery Sr.. The tagline on the movie's posters was \"Wallace and Noah Beery - The Two Greatest Character Actors on the American Screen.\"\n\nBeery played his third royal, the Duc de Tours, in \"Ashes of Vengeance\" (1923) with Norma Talmadge, then did \"Drifting\" (1923) with Priscilla Dean for director Browning.\n\nBeery had the titular role in \"Bavu\" (1923), about Bolsheviks and the Russian Revolution. He co-starred with Buster Keaton in the comedy \"Three Ages\" (1923), the first feature Keaton wrote, produced, directed and starred in.\n\nBeery was a villain in \"The Eternal Struggle\" (1923), a Mountie drama, which was produced by Louis B. Mayer, who would eventually become crucial to Beery's career. He was reunited with Dean and Browning in \"White Tiger\" (1923), then played the title role in the aforementioned \"Richard the Lion-Hearted\" (1923), a sequel to \"Robin Hood\" based on Sir Walter Scott's \"The Talisman\".\n\nBeery was in \"The Drums of Jeopardy\" (1923) and had a support role in \"The Sea Hawk\" (1924) for director Frank Lloyd, and \"The Signal Tower\" (1925).\n\nBeery signed a contract with Paramount Pictures. He had a support role in \"Adventure\" (1925) directed by Victor Fleming.\n\nAt First National, he was given the star role of Professor Challenger in Arthur Conan Doyle's dinosaur epic \"The Lost World\" (1925), arguably his silent performance most frequently screened in the modern era. Beery was top billed in Paramount's \"The Devil's Cargo\" (1925) for Victor Fleming, and supported in \"The Night Club\" (1925), \"The Pony Express\" (1925) for James Cruze, and \"The Wanderer\" (1925) for Raoul Walsh.\n\nBeery starred in a comedy with Raymond Hatton, \"Behind the Front\" (1926) and he was a villain in \"Volcano!\" (1926). He was a bos'n in \"Old Ironsides\" (1926) for director James Cruze, with Charles Farrell in the romantic lead.\n\nBeery had the title role in the baseball movie \"Casey at the Bat\" (1927). He was reunited with Hatton in \"Fireman, Save My Child\" (1927) and \"Now We're in the Air\" (1927). The latter also featured Louise Brooks who was Beery's co star in \"Beggars of Life\" (1928), directed by William Wellman, which was Paramount's first part-talkie movie.\n\nThere was a fourth comedy with Hatton, \"Wife Savers\" (1929), then Beery starred in \"Chinatown Nights\" (1929) for Wellman, produced by a young David O. Selznick. This film was shot silent with the voices dubbed in by the actors afterward, which worked spectacularly well with Beery's resonant voice, although the technique was not used again during the silent era for another full-length feature. Beery then played in \"Stairs of Sand\" (1929) before being fired by Paramount.\n\nIrving Thalberg signed Beery to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer as a character actor. The association began well when Beery played the savage convict \"Butch,\" a role originally intended for Lon Chaney Sr. (who died that same year), in the highly successful 1930 prison film \"The Big House\", directed by George W. Hill; Beery was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor.\n\nBeery's second film for MGM was also a huge success: \"Billy the Kid\" (1930), an early widescreen picture in which he played Pat Garrett. He supported John Gilbert in \"Way for a Sailor\" (1930) and Grace Moore in \"A Lady's Morals\" (1930), portraying P.T. Barnum in the latter.\n\nBeery was well established as a leading man and top rank character actor. What really made him one of the cinema's foremost stars was \"Min and Bill\" (1931) opposite Marie Dressler and directed by George W. Hill, a sensational success.\n\nBeery made a third film with Hill, \"The Secret Six\" (1931), a gangster movie with Jean Harlow and Clark Gable in key supporting roles. The picture was popular but was surpassed at the box office by \"The Champ\", which Beery made with Jackie Cooper for director King Vidor. The film, especially written for Beery, was another box office sensation. Beery shared the Best Actor Oscar with Fredric March. Though March received one vote more than Beery, Academy rules at the time—since rescinded—defined results within one vote of each other as \"ties\".\n\nBeery's career went from strength to strength. \"Hell Divers\" (1932), a naval airplane epic also starring a young Clark Gable billed under Beery, was a big hit. So too was the all-star \"Grand Hotel\" (1932), in which Beery was billed fourth, under Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, and Joan Crawford, one of the very few times he would not be top billed for the rest of his career. In 1932 his contract with MGM stipulated that he be paid a dollar more than any other contract player at the studio, making him the world's highest-paid actor.\n\nBeery was a German wrestler in \"Flesh\" (1932), a hit directed by John Ford but Ford removed his directorial credit before the film opened, so the picture screened with no director listed despite being labeled \"A John Ford Production\" in the opening title card. Next Beery was in another all-star ensemble blockbuster, \"Dinner at Eight\" (1933), with Jean Harlow holding her own as Beery's comically bickering wife. This time Beery was billed third, under Marie Dressler and John Barrymore.\n\nBeery was loaned out to the new Twentieth Century Pictures for the boisterously fast-paced comedy/drama \"The Bowery\" (1933), also starring George Raft, Jackie Cooper and Fay Wray, and featuring Pert Kelton, under the direction of Raoul Walsh. The picture was a smash hit.\n\nBack at MGM he played the title role of Pancho Villa in \"Viva Villa!\" (1933) and was reunited with Dressler in \"Tugboat Annie\" (1933), a massive hit. He was Long John Silver in \"Treasure Island\" (1934), described as a box office \"disappointment\" despite being MGM's third largest hit of the season, and remains currently viewed as featuring one of Beery's iconic performances.\n\nBeery returned to Twentieth Century Productions for \"The Mighty Barnum\" (1934) in which he played P.T. Barnum again. Back at MGM he was a kindly sergeant in \"West Point of the Air\" (1935) and was in an all-star spectacular, \"China Seas\" (1935), this time billed beneath Clark Gable.\n\n\"O'Shaughnessy's Boy\" (1935) reunited Beery and Jackie Cooper. He had the lead as the drunken uncle in MGM's adaptation of \"Ah, Wilderness!\" (1936) and went back to Twentieth Century - now 20th Century Fox - for \"A Message to Garcia\" (1936).\n\nAt MGM he was in \"Old Hutch\" (1936) and \"The Good Old Soak\" (1937) then he was back at Fox for \"Slave Ship\" (1937), taking second billing under Warner Baxter, a rarity for Beery after \"Min and Bill\" catapulted his career into the strastosphere in 1931, during which he received top billing in all but six films (\"Min and Bill\", \"Grand Hotel\", \"Tugboat Annie\", \"Dinner at Eight\", \"China Seas\" and \"Slave Ship\").\n\nThe status of Beery's films went into a decline, possibly due to a scandal in which Beery was implicated in the death of Ted Healy, which was apparently kept out of the newspapers by the studio's \"fixer\" Eddie Mannix, who eventually became head of MGM. After an abrupt European vacation, Beery was in \"The Bad Man of Brimstone\" (1938) with Dennis O'Keefe (and Noah Beery Sr. in a cameo role as a bartender), \"Port of Seven Seas\" (1938) with Maureen O'Sullivan, \"Stablemates\" (1938) with Mickey Rooney, \"Stand Up and Fight\" (1939) with Robert Taylor, \"Sergeant Madden\" (1939) with Tom Brown, \"Thunder Afloat\" (1939) with Chester Morris, \"The Man from Dakota\" (1940) with Delores del Rio, and \"20 Mule Team\" (1940) with Marjorie Rambeau, Anne Baxter and Noah Beery Jr., enjoying top billing in all of them.\n\n\"Wyoming\" (1940) teamed Beery with Marjorie Main. After \"The Bad Man\" (1941), which also stars Lionel Barrymore and future US president Ronald Reagan, and was the remake of a Walter Huston picture, MGM reunited Beery and Main in \"Barnacle Bill\" (1941), \"The Bugle Sounds\" (1941), and \"Jackass Mail\" (1942).\n\nBeery did a war film, \"Salute to the Marines\" (1943) then was back with Main in \"Rationing\" (1944). \"Barbary Coast Gent\" (1944), a broad Western comedy in which Beery played a bombastic con man, teamed him with Binnie Barnes. He did another war film, \"This Man's Navy\" (1945), then made another Western with Main, \"Bad Bascomb\" (1946), a huge hit, helped by Margaret O'Brien's casting.\n\n\"The Mighty McGurk\" (1947) put Beery with another child star of the studio, Dean Stockwell. \"Alias a Gentleman\" (1947) was the first of Beery's movies to lose money during the sound era. Beery received top billing for \"A Date with Judy\" (1949), a hugely popular musical featuring Elizabeth Taylor. Beery's last film, again featuring Main, \"Big Jack\" (1949), also lost money according to Mannix's reckoning.\n\nOn March 27, 1916, at the age of , Beery married -year-old actress Gloria Swanson in Los Angeles. The two had co-starred in \"Sweedie Goes to College.\" Although Beery had enjoyed popularity with his \"Sweedie\" shorts, his career had taken a dip, and during the marriage to Swanson, he relied on her as a breadwinner. According to Swanson's autobiography, Beery raped her on their wedding night, and later tricked her into swallowing an abortifacient when she was pregnant, which caused her to lose their child. Swanson filed for divorce in 1917 and it was finalized in 1918.\n\nOn August 4, 1924, Beery married actress Rita Gilman \"(née\" Mary Areta Gilman; 1898–1986) in Los Angeles. The couple adopted Carol Ann Priester (1930–2013), daughter of Rita Beery's mother's half-sister, Juanita Priester \"(née\" Caplinger; 1899–1931) and her husband, Erwin William Priester (1897–1969). After years of marriage, Rita filed for divorce on May 1, 1939, in Carson City, Ormsby County, Nevada. Within 20 minutes of filing, she won the decree. Rita remarried 15 days later, on May 16, 1939, to Jessen Albert D. Foyt (1907–1945), filing her marriage license with the same county clerk in Carson City.\n\nIn December 1937, comedic actor Ted Healy was involved in a drunken altercation at Cafe Trocadero on the Sunset Strip. E. J. Fleming, in his 2005 book, \"The Fixers: Eddie Mannix, Howard Strickling and the MGM Publicity Machine\", asserts that Healy was attacked by three men:\n\nFleming writes that this beating led to Healy's death a few days later.\n\nAround December 1939, Beery, recently divorced, adopted a seven-month-old girl, Phyllis Ann Beery. Phyllis appeared in MGM publicity photos when adopted, but was never mentioned again. Beery told the press he had taken the girl in from a single mother, recently divorced, but he had filed no official adoption papers.\n\nBeery was considered and difficult to work with by many of his colleagues. Mickey Rooney, one of Beery's few co-stars to consistently speak highly of him in subsequent decades, related in his autobiography that Howard Strickling, MGM's head of publicity, once went to Louis B. Mayer to complain that Beery was stealing props from the studio's sets. \"And that wasn't all,\" Rooney continued. \"He went on for some minutes about the trouble that Beery was always causing him ... Mayer sighed and said, 'Yes, Howard, Beery's a son of a bitch. But he's \"our\" son of a bitch.' Strickling got the point. A family has to be tolerant of its black sheep, particularly if they brought a lot of money into the family fold, which Beery certainly did.\"\n\nChild actors, in particular, recalled unpleasant encounters with Beery. Jackie Cooper, who made several films with him early in his career, called him \"a big disappointment\", and accused him of upstaging, and other attempts to undermine his performances, out of what Cooper presumed was jealousy. He recalled impulsively throwing his arms around Beery after one especially heartfelt scene, only to be gruffly pushed away.\nChild actress Margaret O'Brien claimed that she had to be protected by crew members from Beery's insistence on constantly pinching her.\n\nRooney remained an exception to the general negative attitude among child actors. In his memoir he described Beery as \"... a lovable, shambling kind of guy who never seemed to know that his shirttail belonged inside his pants, but always knew when a little kid actor needed a smile and a wink or a word of encouragement.\" He did concede that \"not everyone loved [Beery] as much as I did.\" Beery, by contrast, described Rooney as a \"brat\", but a \"fine actor\".\n\nBeery owned and flew his own planes, one a Howard DGA-11. On April 15, 1933 he was commissioned a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve at NRAB Long Beach. One of his proudest achievements was catching the largest black sea bass in the world — — off Santa Catalina Island in 1916, a record that stood for 35 years.\n\nA noteworthy episode in Beery's life is chronicled in the fifth episode of Ken Burns' documentary \"\": In 1943, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an executive order creating Jackson Hole National Monument to protect the land adjoining the Grand Tetons in Wyoming. Local ranchers, outraged at the loss of grazing lands, compared FDR's action to Hitler's taking of Austria. Led by an aging Beery, they protested by herding 500 cattle across the monument lands without a permit.\n\nOn February 13, 1948, Gloria Schumm \"(aka\" Gloria Smith Beery, \"née\" Florence W. Smith; 1916–1989) filed a paternity suit against Beery. Beery, through his lawyer, Norman Ronald Tyre (1910–2002), initially offered $6,000 as a settlement, but denied being the father. Gloria had given birth on February 7, 1948, to Johan Richard Wallace Schumm. Gloria, in 1924, divorced Stuttgart-born Hollywood actor Hans Schumm \"(né\" Johann Josef Eugen Schumm; 1896–1990), but remarried him August 21, 1947, after realizing that she was pregnant. Prior to remarrying Hans Schumm, Gloria, on August 4, 1947, met with Beery at his home, where he gave her the name and address of a physician to submit an examination. At or around that time, she also asked Beery to marry her to \"legitimatize the expected child\" (her words), which Beery refused.\n\nAccording to newspapers, Gloria claimed to have been intimate with Wallace Beery on or about May 1, 1947, at his home in Beverly Hills (in the court proceedings, however, she claimed to have been intimate with Beery on May 17, 1947). Beery conceded that he had known Gloria for about 15 years and that, under the pseudonym \"Gloria Whitney,\" she had played bit roles in 6 films that he starred in. She again separated from Hans Schumm April 15, 1948.\n\nBeery died of a heart attack on April 15, 1949 (14 months, 1 week, and 1 day after Johan Schumm's birth) — while the suit was pending. He died intestate (without a will). Beery had been reading a newspaper at his Beverly Hills home when he collapsed. His body was interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California. The inscription on his grave reads, \"No man is indispensable but some are irreplaceable.\" When Mickey Rooney's father died less than a year later, Rooney arranged to have him buried next to his old friend. \"I thought it was fitting that these two comedians should rest in peace, side by side,\" he wrote.\n\nAs for the paternity suit, Gloria's attorneys — initially Joseph L. Fainer (1897–1960), then Maurice Rose \"(né\" Maurice Morris Rosenberg; 1881–1973) with Kay Whyner \"(née\" Kate Whyner; 1910–1996), Rose's secretary acting as guardian \"ad litem\" — demanded $104,135 against Beery's $2,220,000 estate.\n\nJudge Newcomb Condee (1898–1974) of the Los Angeles County Superior Court, on February 22, 1952, approved a $26,750 settlement from Beery's estate – far less than what Gloria had been seeking. Gloria Schumm finally accepted the settlement and Johan Beery's paternity was not admitted.\n\nThe paternity suit, and subsequent suits – including appeals – extended through about 1952 and were internationally publicized, particularly in gossip columns and tabloids. The litigation has endured as case law with, among other things, treatises addressing the rights of illegitimate offspring against legitimate heirs in races for inheritance.\n\nThe upshot was that Schumm's paternity suit against Beery's estate put would-be half-siblings and other would-be family legatees, including a would-be uncle, Noah Beery, Sr., in the position as \"de facto\" defendants. Phyllis Ann Riley was not named in Beery's will. Part of plaintiff's claim, initially, hinged on whether an oral agreement was binding. Gloria had claimed that Beery, while alive, agreed to provide the child. However, on November 17, 1949, Judge William B. McKesson (1895–1967) threw out Gloria's claim. The judge reasoned that any oral agreement between the two, specifically any that was intended to provide for maintenance and care of a minor, was not binding because the amount allegedly agreed upon was in excess of $500, which must be made in writing.\n\nAnother matter in the case hinged on a \"peppercorn\" rule. That is, in order for any agreement, oral or written, between Wallace and Gloria to be binding, there must be consideration. The court, initially, found that Beery agreed to an oral contract where Gloria would (i) include the name \"Wallace\" in the child's name if a male, or \"Wally\" if a female, and (ii) refrain from filing a paternity suit that both agreed would damage Beery's \"social and professional standing as a prominent motion picture star.\"\n\nGenerally, under California state law at the time, a father who neither marries the mother nor acknowledges paternity does not have a right to name the child. That right belongs to the mother. In exchange for Gloria's promise to name the child \"Wallace\" or \"Wally\" (the promise representing a form of consideration), Wallace Beery agreed to arrange for the payment of $100 per week to the child (as a third-party beneficiary under the contract), plus a lump sum of $25,000 to the child when he or she attained age 21, in addition to the customary obligation to pay for the \"maintenance, support and education according to the station in life and standard of living of Wallace Beery.\"\n\nFor his contributions to the film industry, Wallace Beery posthumously received a motion pictures star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1960. His star is located at 7001 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nBeery is mentioned in the film \"Barton Fink\", in which the lead character has been hired to write a wrestling screenplay to star Beery.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53330150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53330150", "title": "Warrior Care Network", "text": "Warrior Care Network\n\nWarrior Care Network is a national health system of PTSD treatment centers that provide care, travel and accommodations at no cost for United States veterans and their families. Treatment consists of intensive outpatient care, mainly focusing on PTSD (post traumatic stress disorder), and TBI (traumatic brain injury). Warrior Care Network began accepting veterans into the program on January 15, 2016. It was created by a joint effort between Wounded Warrior Project, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and partners consisting of four regional academic medical research hospitals located throughout the United States. Initial cost of the project was $100 million which was funded by a three-year grant from Wounded Warrior Project and its treatment center medical partners.\n\nIn 2007, UCLA Health created Operation Mend via a partnership with the U.S. Military and the Department of Veterans Affairs. In 2010 Operation Mend began treating PTSD and mild TBI. In 2015 it joined the Warrior Care Network and expanded its veteran reconstructive surgery program to include mental health care from neurology, neurosurgery, psychiatry and integrative specialists.\n\nEmory Healthcare Veterans Program joined Warrior Care Network in June 2015. It received a $15 million grant and was required to raise an additional $7.5 million over the next three years. Emory offers a military sexual trauma survivors program as part of the Warrior Care Network.\n\nOn September 17th, 2018, Wounded Warrior Project continued to contribute to the Emory Healthcare Veterans Program with a five-year $29.2 million grant to help expand space and treatment for veterans suffering from PTSD, TBI, depression, and anxiety. \n\nThe Red Sox Foundation and Massachusetts General Hospital Home Base Program was chosen to provide a PTSD treatment center in the northeast United States. Home Base joined the Warrior Care Network in 2015 and was slated to move into a building in the Navy Yard in Charlestown under the leadership of executive director Jack Hammond and chief operating officer Mike Allard.\n\nRush University Medical Center began the Road Home Program in 2014 to treat veterans and family members affected by PTSD and TBI related to military service. In 2015, Rush received a grant for $15 million from Wounded Warrior Project to develop its outpatient evaluation and treatment program and become part of the Warrior Care Network. Wounded Warrior Project also promised to match $2 to every $1 raised by Rush to develop its program, up to $2.5 million per year.\n\nVeterans and active duty US military with mental health disorders or injuries incurred during deployment on or after September 11, 2001 are eligible; there is no geographical restriction.\n\nTo participate in the program and receive PTSD treatment at no cost, veterans, active duty military or caregivers must begin the screening process by filling out a form on the Wounded Warrior Project official website.\n\nWarrior Care Network provides a six-week program which includes two to three weeks at the PTSD treatment center, and for some locations followed by three weeks care from home via telecommuting and social networking. The program can be used by veterans who have not already received mental health care or in addition to ongoing treatments for combat-related PTSD. PTSD treatment strategies include healing arts, wellness and community engagement. Treatment activities for veterans may include mediation, acupuncture and qi gong. Families are also included in the treatment and can receive training on therapy for trauma that effects concentration and memory. Therapy can be performed in group sessions or individual sessions.\n\nProlonged exposure (PE) is a best practice PTSD treatment that repeatedly exposes the patient to triggers or distressful thoughts related to the traumatic event, allowing the patient to learn how to manage resulting distress and deal with memories that had been avoided. Exposure therapy is performed at Emory Brain Health Center using virtual reality sessions with a therapist, allowing the patient to talk through experiences.\n\nRegistration for the program is conducted through the Wounded Warrior Project (WWP) website.\n\nWounded Warrior Project initiated the Warrior Care Network after performing a survey of veterans in 2014, finding over 76% of respondents had an untreated traumatic battle experience despite existing veterans' benefits for PTSD. The program is designed to improve overall industry treatment and best practices for PTSD by tracking data and sharing results. According to WWP Chief Program Officer Jeremy Chwat, \"Tapping into private health care [in conjunction with what is offered at Veterans Affairs] is something we think can benefit not only the warriors in our program but those who are accessing mental health treatment at the VA and other programs.\" WWP funded $15.7 million toward each of the four medical partners, a total of $62.8 million. During the founding of Warrior Care Network, Wounded Warrior Project orchestrated an agreement with the Department of Veteran Affairs, allowing the VA to share records with the treatment centers.\n\n"}
{"id": "25309712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25309712", "title": "William Abbott (footballer)", "text": "William Abbott (footballer)\n\nWilliam Abbott was a footballer who played in the Football League for Derby County.\n"}
