{"id": "35584263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35584263", "title": "2012 Malawian constitutional crisis", "text": "2012 Malawian constitutional crisis\n\nThe 2012 Malawian constitutional crisis occurred from April 5, 2012 - April 7, 2012 after senior members of the Democratic Progressive Party-led cabinet failed to notify the public of the death of the sitting president, Bingu wa Mutharika on April 5. Instead, cabinet ministers held a series of meetings in Lilongwe, Malawi without vice-president Joyce Banda with the aim of undermining the constitution and Banda's succession to Presidency. News confirming his death had, however, quickly spread across the country (and to the Malawian diaspora) through word of mouth, cellphone text messages, Malawian bloggers, Twitter, Facebook, and on listservs by the end of the day on April 5, 2012. Therefore, the failure to announce his death resulted in speculation over the real health of the president and over whether the succession procedures would be followed as outlined in the constitution. According to the constitution, the vice-president takes over but there had been no official word on a successor or communication with the vice-president. Amidst growing speculation, the Cabinet announced that the president's brother, Peter Mutharika, the foreign minister, was the new President of the party on April 6. The Cabinet only announced his death two days after his death, after which Banda became Malawi's first female President.\n\nPresident Bingu wa Mutharika had increasingly begun to consolidate his power during his second term. He groomed his brother, Peter Mutharika, a lawyer and the Minister of Foreign Affairs as his successor. This meant that he by-passed his sitting Vice President, Joyce Banda but expected her to support this bid. Instead, wa Mutharika caused factions within his Democratic Progressive Party and fired Banda and Second Vice President Khumbo Kachali from their positions in the government and the party in 2010. According to the Constitution of Malawi, however, a vice president has to be removed through an impeachment process requiring a majority of the National Assembly. Therefore, the Malawi court declared this act unconstitutional. The court declared that he could fire Banda from his party but not from the government because the removal process for these positions were different. A party vice president can be removed in accordance with that party's internal process. However, a vice president, who is voted in with the presidential position, can only be removed through a legally sanctioned impeachment process. As such, Banda was regarded as the legal vice president even though she was also not vice president of the DPP party. Mutharika knew that he would not garner the majority in parliament due to factions within the party over the succession of the presidency and therefore he proceeded to frustrate Banda in order to force her to resign as Vice President. She refused to resign and continued in her capacity as vice president of the country, although under constant duress and harassment. Her security detail was changed and several of her privileges were redirected to Mutharika's brother Peter. Banda then formed a new political party, the People's Party, in 2011.\n\nAccording to section 83, subsection 4 of Malawi's constitution, \"whenever there is a vacancy in the office of President, the First Vice-President shall assume that office for the remainder of the term and shall appoint another person to serve as First Vice-President for the remainder of the term.\"\n\nPresident Mutharika had private meetings with Member of Parliament Patricia Kaliati and later Lilongwe legislator Agnes Penemulungu. He died of a heart attack during the meeting with Penemulungu and was declared dead on arrival at the local hospital. Senior members of the Democratic Progressive Party-led cabinet did not notify the public of the death of the President from a heart attack. However, news confirming his death spread quickly across the country (and to the Malawian diaspora) through word-of-mouth, cellphone text messages, Malawian bloggers, Twitter, Facebook, and on listservs throughout the day. An online newspaper, the \"Malawian Democrat\", first broke the news to the public. An online journalist, Andrew Evans, from \"National Geographic\" used Twitter to confirm reports and broke the news to international press. News of the possibility of a cover-up began to spread throughout the country and abroad. The Malawian army switched its security detail and went to the home of Vice President Joyce Banda in order to protect her in accordance with the constitution of Malawi. Extra police were deployed to the streets as a precautionary measure.\n\nThe initial emergency meetings took place at the residence of the vice president of the party, Goodall Gondwe. The ministers present included Ken Lipenga, Catherine Gotani Hara, and Peter Mutharika, but it is largely unclear who supported the coup and who opposed it since this was not a unanimous decision. It is known that Mutharika accepted his nomination as the DPP president. Henry Mussa noted that many other ministers were involved in the plot other than the six that appeared on television. Many of the ministers have since distanced themselves from the attempted constitutional coup. The Malawi Law Society called for a full investigation into the matter.\n\nSenior government officials made statements to the media that the President was not well and was being flown to South Africa but no official announcements were made. Vice President Joyce Banda thereafter informed the nation that President Mutharika was unwell and that she had contacted South Africa about the President’s condition. She also informed the nation that if he became incapacitated that the Constitution would take its course. Amidst growing speculation, the cabinet announced that the president's brother, Peter Mutharika, the foreign minister, would be the new President of the DPP.\n\nSenior members of the cabinet led by Patricia Kaliati, Minister of Information, appeared on television and announced that the president was not well and that the country would be updated on his health. They further stated that Vice President Banda was ineligible to succeed Mutharika because she had formed her own political party.\n\nThe Midnight Six is the term used to refer to the cabinet Ministers that were involved in the coup and who appeared on television at midnight: \n\nTheir public appearance and support for the statements on national television means that they are all inextricably linked to the coup plot. There is debate on whether or not the involvement of these six will lead to legal prosecution for attempted treason.\n\nThe \"Malawi News\" printed a headline entitled, \"Bingu Dead\". The senior members of the government thereafter announced President Mutharika's death. Vice President Joyce Banda was thus sworn in as President. Catherine Gotani Hara announced in a radio interview on Radio zodiak that there had been an attempt at circumventing the constitution since April 5, when the president had actually died. She noted that Peter Mutharika, an internationally renowned constitutional lawyer, had not been following the proper constitutional process.\n\nThe US, one of Malawi's donors, expressed alarm at the official silence and said it was confident that the constitution would be upheld and came out in support of Banda. The constitutional succession has a direct impact on donor funding in Malawi. Keith Somerville, a career journalist with the BBC and visiting lecturer at the University of Kent, described Malawi's international financial crisis: \"Britain is Malawi's main bilateral donor and was expected to provide aid worth £90m in 2011, before the rupture in relations. The German government halved its budget support contribution in 2011 and the US government's Millennium Challenge Corporation is withholding a 350 million dollar grant to rehabilitate Malawi's failing energy network. Donor aid accounts for 40 per cent of Malawi's national budget. The US government has already put out a positive statement saying, 'By following constitutional procedures for this transition, the government and people of Malawi have reaffirmed their commitment to democratic principles ...We stand with the people of Malawi during their time of mourning, and look forward to deepening the partnership between our nations.'\"\n\nIn January 2013, a commission of inquiry published a 90-page report about the events surrounding Mutharika's death. On March 10, the police began arresting the Midnight Six and others involved in the coup. This included Midnight Six members Patricia Kaliati, Henry Mussa, and Kondwani Nankhumwa. It also included Peter Mutharika (President Mutharika's brother), Goodall Gondwe, the Minister of Economic Development, and the Chief Secretary, Bright Msaka. The arrests sparked protest from DPP supporters in Blantyre who smashed cars and destroyed property. The crowds were dispersed through tear gas. By March 13, 12 top officials had been arrested in relation to the attempted coup, this included ex-ministers Henry Mussa, Symon Vuwa Kaunda, Jean Kalirani, Patricia Kaliati, Kondwani Nankhumwa, the Deputy Chief Secretary to the Government, Necton Mhura and Duncan Mwapasa.\n"}
{"id": "2549827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2549827", "title": "Abram Petrovich Gannibal", "text": "Abram Petrovich Gannibal\n\nAbram Petrovich Gannibal, also Hannibal or Ganibal, or Abram Hannibal or Abram Petrov (; 1696 – 14 May 1781), was a Russian military engineer, general, and nobleman of African origin. Kidnapped as a child, Gannibal was taken to Russia and presented as a gift to Peter the Great, where he was freed, adopted and raised in the Emperor's court household as his godson.\n\nGannibal eventually rose to become a prominent member of the imperial court in the reign of Peter's daughter Elizabeth. He had 11 children, most of whom became members of the Russian nobility; he was a great-grandfather of the author and poet Alexander Pushkin.\n\nThe main reliable accounts of Gannibal's life come from \"The Moor of Peter the Great,\" Pushkin's unfinished biography of his great-grandfather, published after Pushkin's death in 1837. Scholars argue that Pushkin's account may be inaccurate due to the author’s desire to elevate the status of his ancestors and family. There are a number of contradictions between the biographies of Pushkin and the German novel, \"The Blackamoor of Peter the Great\" based on his great-grandfather. An historical biography by Gannibal's son-in-law, Rotkirkh, was largely responsible for the myth, propagated by some historians, that Gannibal was born in Ethiopia. However, more recent research by the scholars Dieudonné Gnammankou and Hugh Barnes has established that the late general was instead likely born in Central Africa, in an area bordering Lake Chad in present-day Cameroon.\n\nRichard Pankhurst, the former professor at the Institute of Ethiopian Studies at the University of Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, believed the young Abram, Ibrahim or Abraham, as he named him, was born around 1698. He was the son of a minor \"prince\" or chief whose capital was Logon (now part of present-day Cameroon). His father was relatively affluent taking several wives and having 19 children. However, after his father died in battle trying to defend his territory from the Ottoman Turks, Abram was abducted and taken to Constantinople by ship. His sister, Lagan, is said to have drowned in the sea in a desperate attempt to save her brother.\n\nAbram stayed in the Ottoman Empire for about a year in the service of Sultan Ahmed III's household. At the time, the Russian ambassador Sava Vladislavich-Raguzinsky, representing Peter the Great, was looking for \"a few clever little African slaves\" for the Tsar's palace in Moscow, as was the custom in those days at the great courts in Europe. On orders of Vladislavich's superiors (one of whom was Pyotr Andreyevich Tolstoy, great-grandfather of the celebrated writer Leo Tolstoy), Abram was selected for this purpose and soon ransomed from the Sultan's viziers with a bribe. In 1704, the ambassador immediately dispatched him by land to Moscow in order to be presented to Tsar Peter the Great.\n\nThe Tsar is noted to have taken a liking to the boy’s intelligence and potential for military service, and brought the child into his household.\nAbram was baptized in 1705, in St. Paraskeva Church in Vilnius, with Peter as his godfather. The date of Gannibal’s baptism held personal significance; he used that date as his birthday because he did not know his actual date of birth.\n\nAbram valued his relationship with his godfather, as well as that of Peter's daughter (Elizabeth), and was loyal to them as if they were family.\nStarting at a young age the boy Abram would travel alongside the emperor during his military campaigns, and at these military journeys he served as his godfather’s valet.\n\nIn 1717, Abram was sent to Metz to receive an education in the arts, sciences and warfare from the highest institutes available. By then he was fluent in several languages and excelled in mathematics and geometry. In 1718 Abram joined the French Army with hopes of pleasing his godfather by expanding his learning in military engineering. He enrolled in the royal artillery academy at La Fère in 1720.\n\nDuring Abram's studies, conflict broke out between France and Spain, and he fought for France in the War of the Quadruple Alliance, rising to the rank of captain. While fighting in the French war against Spain, Abram received a head injury and was captured by the Spanish army. He was released in 1722 and continued his studies in Metz.\n\nIt was during his time in France that Abram adopted the surname \"Gannibal\" in honor of the Carthaginian general Hannibal (\"Gannibal\" being the traditional transliteration of the name in Russian). In Paris he met and befriended such Enlightenment figures as the Baron de Montesquieu and Voltaire (this claim by his biographer Hugh Barnes is disputed by reviewer Andrew Kahn). Voltaire called Gannibal the \"dark star of the Enlightenment\".\n\nGannibal returned to Russia the following year and his advanced training enabled him to apply and successfully acquire posts first as an engineer and then as a mathematics tutor for one of the Tsar's private guard units.\n\nGannibal's education was completed by 1723 and he was due to return to Russia. After the death of Peter in 1725, Prince Menshikov gained power in Russia due to his good standing with Peter. However, Menshikov was not fond of Gannibal and was suspicious of his foreign origins and superior education. Gannibal was exiled to Siberia in 1727, some 4,000 miles to the east of Saint Petersburg. He was pardoned in 1730 due to his technical skills, and completed his service in Siberia in 1733. During this time he built a fortress and led several construction projects, where he became a master engineer.\n\nElizabeth of Russia became the new monarch in 1741. Gannibal became a prominent member of her court, rose to the rank of major-general, and became superintendent of Reval (now Tallinn, Estonia), a position he held from 1742 to 1752. A letter signed on 22 March 1744 by \"A. Ganibal\" is held at the Tallinn City Archives. In 1742, the Empress Elizabeth gave him the Mikhailovskoye estate in Pskov Oblast with hundreds of serfs. He retired to this estate in 1762.\n\nIn an official document that Gannibal submitted in 1742 to Empress Elizabeth, while petitioning for the rank of nobility and a coat of arms, he asked for the right to use a family crest emblazoned with an elephant and the mysterious word \"FVMMO\", which may mean \"homeland\" in the Kotoko language. In his book, \"Gannibal: The Moor of Petersburg\", Hugh Barnes writes of meeting with the sultan of Logone-Birni, who gave him the same translation of the word. However, Frances Somers-Cocks, author of \"The Moor of St Petersburg: In the Footsteps of a Black Russian\", met the same sultan and received a different translation for FVMMO. She also suggested that FVMMO stands for the Latin expression \"Fortuna Vitam Meam Mutavit Omnino\" which means \"Fortune has changed my life entirely.\"\n\nGannibal married twice. His first wife was Evdokia Dioper, a Greek woman. The couple married in 1731. Dioper despised her husband, whom she was forced to marry. The marriage between Dioper and Gannibal was very volatile and he suspected her of infidelity early in their marriage. Gannibal’s suspicions were confirmed when Dioper gave birth to a white daughter. When Gannibal found out that she had been unfaithful to him, he had her arrested and thrown into prison, where she spent eleven years.\n\nGannibal began living with another woman, Christina Regina Siöberg (1705–1781), daughter of Mattias Johan Siöberg and wife Christina Elisabeth d'Albedyll, and married her bigamously in Reval, in 1736, a year after the birth of their first child and while he was still lawfully married to his first wife. His divorce from Dioper did not become final until 1753, upon which a fine and a penance were imposed on Gannibal, and Dioper was sent to a convent for the rest of her life. Gannibal's second marriage was nevertheless deemed lawful after his divorce. Gannibal’s second marriage to Christina was much happier and he appreciated her fidelity and affection towards him.\n\nOn her paternal side, Gannibal’s second wife was descended from noble families in Scandinavia and Germany: Siöberg (Sweden), Galtung (Norway), and Grabow (Denmark) / von Grabow (Brandenburg). Her paternal grandfather was Gustaf Siöberg, Rittmester til Estrup, who died in 1694, whose wife Clara Maria Lauritzdatter Galtung (ca. 1651–1698) was the daughter of Lauritz Lauritzson Galtung (ca. 1615–1661) and of Barbara Grabow til Pederstrup (1631–1696).\n\nAbram Gannibal and Christine Regina Siöberg had ten children, including a son, Osip. Osip in turn would have a daughter, Nadezhda, the mother of Alexander Pushkin. Gannibal's oldest son, Ivan, became an accomplished naval officer who helped found the city of Kherson in 1779 and attained the rank of general-in-chief, the second-highest military rank in imperial Russia.\n\nSome British aristocrats descend from Gannibal, including Natalia Grosvenor, Duchess of Westminster and her sister, Alexandra Hamilton, Duchess of Abercorn. George Mountbatten, 4th Marquess of Milford Haven, a cousin of Queen Elizabeth II, is also a direct descendant, as the grandson of Nadejda Mountbatten, Marchioness of Milford Haven.\n\nGannibal's actual place of birth continues to be uncertain, and is subject to speculation by modern historians. Until recent scholarly field work, it was generally assumed that he originated in Ethiopia. Chiefly Russian scholars for many years believed that he was from the vicinity of Medri Bahri, an ancient kingdom in present-day Eritrea. In a letter he wrote to Empress Elizabeth, Peter the Great's daughter, Gannibal stated that he was from the town of \"Logon\" or \"Lagone\". Anthropologist Dmitry Anuchin wrote an essay about Alexander Pushkin in which he theorized that \"Lagone\" referred to Logo-chewa in Eritrea. In 1999, the Russian Institute in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, also campaigned for a commemorative stamp to honor Pushkin's bicentennial.\n\nThe governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea each claim that Gannibal was born in their respective territories. Under this belief, the Ethiopian government named a street in Addis Ababa after Alexander Pushkin, Gannibal's great-grandson. It also placed a bust of him near the African Union headquarters in 2002, and arranged for a statue of Pushkin to be transferred from Moscow to Addis Ababa in 2014. However, the notion that Gannibal may have been born in Ethiopia holds little currency with the general Ethiopian population. The Eritrean government asserts that Gannibal was instead born in Loggo Sarda, an area in modern Eritrea. It also erected its own statue of Pushkin and named a street for him in 2009.\n\nVladimir Nabokov cast doubt on Gannibal's ancestry, based on research findings during his work translating Pushkin's novel \"Eugene Onegin\". Nabokov disagreed with Anuchin's theory, stating that it was just as likely that Gannibal was referring to \"the Lagona region of equatorial Africa, south of Lake Chad.\" Support for Anuchin's theory of Ethiopian birth declined after it was exposed as racially based, implying that \"hamitic\" Ethiopian origins better explained Gannibal's success than \"negroid\" origins.\n\nThe Beninean historian Dieudonné Gnammankou, an expert on Russia, studied Russian, French and African sources and argued that Gannibal was indeed from Logone-Birni and was most likely the son of a chief in the ancient sultanate. In 1995, Gnammankou asserted that the \"Logon\" Gannibal wrote about was actually Logone, capital of the old Kotoko kingdom of Logone-Birni, now located in northern Cameroon. He believed that the pattern of slave trade around Lake Chad made that region a more plausible likelihood for Gannibal's birthplace than Gondar, Ethiopia. Gnammankou's biography of Gannibal was translated into Russian, and was voted the best book on Pushkin at the 1999 Moscow Book Fair.\n\nGnammankou's findings were in turn buttressed by the field work of Hugh Barnes. After consulting with the Sultan of Logone-Birni, Barnes found that an inscription on Gannibal's crest, which was hitherto undecipherable, corresponded with the term for \"homeland\" in the local Kotoko language of central Africa. Barnes's book has been criticised for its negative portrayal of Gannibal.\n\nIn November, 2010, representatives from Russia and Estonia, the ambassador of Cameroon, and the sultan of Logone-Birni went to La Fère, France to unveil a commemorative plaque honoring Abram Petrovich Gannibal as a graduate of La Fère's royal artillery academy. The academy, which closed in the 1990s, had been started by King Louis XV shortly before Gannibal's enrollment there in 1720. The plaque declares that he was a graduate of the royal artillery academy of La Fere, and later became chief military engineer and general-in-chief of the Imperial Russian Army. It also notes that Gannibal is the great-grandfather of Alexander Pushkin, Russia's greatest poet. Dieudonné Gnammankou, whose research into Gannibal's background was largely responsible for the ceremony at La Fère taking place, also served as the main speaker at a symposium following the event.\n\nAlexander Pushkin used his great-grandfather Abram Gannibal as the model for Ibrahim, the lead character in his unfinished novel \"The Moor of Peter the Great\". After leaving school in 1817, Pushkin met Abram's last surviving son, Peter. He met Peter again in 1825, after writing in his diary about wanting to \"get from him some memoirs about my great-grandfather.\" Pushkin spoke often about his African heritage, and how he had suffered racist taunts about his own appearance. He seemed to use his own experiences, along with Gannibal's to create the plot for \"The Moor of Peter the Great\". A stage version of the work was written by Carlyle Brown and premiered at the Alabama Shakespeare Festival's 13th Southern Writers' Project in March 2001.\n\nAbram Gannibal is a protagonist of the Soviet comedy movie \"How Czar Peter the Great Married Off His Moor\", although the film's plot has almost nothing to do with Gannibal's real biography. The film is partly based on Pushkin's \"Moor of Peter the Great\".\n\nThere are several portraits thought to depict Gannibal, which include a painting of the Battle of Lesnaya by Pierre-Denis Martin the Younger. The young boy present in Martin’s painting is argued to be Gannibal, because of the young boy’s role as valet to Peter during military campaigns and Gannibal’s possible connection to the artist while in France. A portrait by Adriaan Schoonebeeck is also believed to portray Gannibal during his time with Peter the Great. In Schoonebeeck’s portrait of Peter the Great, the young servant boy directly behind Peter is thought to be Gannibal. Although there are a variety of portraits that claim to contain Gannibal, there is little evidence to suggest the claims are accurate.\nIn the Lesnaya painting, the young boy is dressed in traditional slave attire, which Gannibal did not wear due to his status under Peter the Great.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5259480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5259480", "title": "Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds", "text": "Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds\n\nThe Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds, or African-Eurasian Waterbird Agreement (AEWA) is an independent international treaty developed under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Programme's Convention on Migratory Species. It was founded to coordinate efforts to conserve bird species migrating between European and African nations, and its current scope stretches from the Arctic to South Africa, encompassing the Canadian archipelago and the Middle East as well as Europe and Africa.\n\nThe agreement focuses on bird species that depend on wetlands for at least part of their lifecycle and cross international borders in their migration patterns. It currently covers 254 species.\n\nThe Parties meet every few years. So far there have been five meetings, with a sixth to occur late in 2015:\n7–9 November 1999 in Cape Town, South Africa;\n25–27 September 2002 in Bonn, Germany;\n23–27 October 2005 in Dakar, Senegal;\n15–19 September 2008 in Antananarivo, Madagascar;\n14–18 May 2012 in La Rochelle, France.\n9-14 November 2015 in Bonn, Germany\n\nThe use of lead shot over wetlands has been banned by the signatories to the convention on account of the poisoning it causes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327568", "title": "Amina Lawal", "text": "Amina Lawal\n\nAmina Lawal Kurami (born 1972) is a Nigerian woman. On March 22, 2002, an Islamic Sharia court (in Funtua, Nigeria in the northern state of Katsina) sentenced her to death by stoning for adultery and for conceiving a child out of wedlock. The person she identified as the father of the child was not prosecuted for lack of evidence and deemed innocent by the court without any DNA tests.\n\nAmina's conviction sparked an international controversy. It was overturned by a Sharia Court of Appeals which ruled that it violated Islamic law, and she later remarried.\n\nAmina was the second Nigerian woman condemned to death by stoning for engaging in sex before marriage. The first woman, Safiya Hussaini, had her sentence overturned in March 2002 on her first appeal. Sharia law was established in northern Nigeria's mostly Muslim state Zamfara in 2000 and has since spread to at least twelve other states.\n\nOn August 19, 2002, Amina's first appeal against the stoning sentence was rejected by an Islamic court in Katsina State of Nigeria. The appeals judge stated that the sentence would be carried out as soon as Kurami weaned her daughter from breast-feeding.\n\nA second appeal was put in motion and on September 25, 2003 Amina's sentence of death by stoning for adultery was overturned by a five-judge panel of Katsina State Sharia Court of Appeal. Four of the five judges ruled that the conviction violated Islamic law on a number of points, which included: the defendant's right to proper legal defense was not ensured; the circumstantial evidence of her pregnancy was not sufficient; the confession of the accused was not valid; and only one instead of the required three judges was present at the time of conviction.\n\nBaobab for Women's Human Rights, an NGO based in Nigeria, took up her case, which was argued by Nigerian lawyers trained in both secular and Sharia law. Amina's lawyers included Hauwa Ibrahim, a prominent human rights lawyer known for her pro bono work for people condemned under Sharia law. In their successful defense of Amina Lawal, lawyers used the notion of \"extended pregnancy\" (dormant foetus), arguing that under Sharia law, a five-year interval is possible between human conception and birth. (Two years prior to the date of her daughter's birth, she was still married to her husband.)\n\nThe affair exposed civil and religious tensions between the Christian and Muslim regions of Nigeria. The sentence also caused widespread outrage in the West, and a number of campaigns were launched to persuade the Nigerian government to overturn the sentence. Several contestants of the Miss World beauty contest, to be held in Nigeria in 2002, pulled out of the contest to protest against Amina Lawal's treatment. \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" had a special report on Amina Lawal and encouraged viewers to send protest e-mails to the Nigerian Ambassador to the United States - over 1.2 million e-mails ensued.\n\nA 2002 Petition called \"save Amina\" gathered a few thousand signatures then a 2003 e-communication with the subject line \"“Please Stop the International Amina Lawal Protest Letter Campaigns\" signed by Ayesha Iman and Sindi Medar-Gould who represented two Nigerian Human Rights organizations said the \"save Amina\" petition had some inaccuracies including a false assertion that execution of the sentence was imminent. They further contested that \"There is an unbecoming arrogance in assuming that international human rights organizations or others always know better than those directly involved, and therefore can take actions that fly in the face of their express wishes\".\n\nIn May 2003, the official response of the Embassy of Nigeria in the Netherlands to the then Sharia-based trial of the State of Katsina in Nigeria, was that no court had given a stoning order on Lawal. They claimed the reports were \"unfounded and malicious\" and were \"calculated to ridicule the Nigerian judicial system and the country’s image before the international community.\" They claimed no knowledge of such a case.\n\nAmbassador A.A. Agada of the Embassy of Nigeria in Washington D.C., U.S., was more forthcoming in recognizing the case of Amina and stated on 29 August 2003: \"the Embassy wishes to inform that Malama Amina Lawal has three levels of courts of appeal before the final determination of her case. The Embassy hereby assures the general public that Malama Lawal's right to a fair hearing under the Nigerian Constitution is guaranteed. Therefore due appellate processes will be followed to ensure the rule of law\".\n\nAs noted in the Author Q&A at the end of Will Ferguson's novel \"419\", the fictional character Amina—a young pregnant woman fleeing the Sharia states of northern Nigeria on foot—was based on the real life case of Amina Lawal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "416918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416918", "title": "Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service", "text": "Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service\n\nThe Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) based in Riverdale, Maryland responsible for protecting animal health, animal welfare, and plant health. APHIS is the lead agency for collaboration with other agencies to protect U.S. agriculture from invasive pests and diseases. APHIS is the National Plant Protection Authority for the U.S. government, and the agency's head of veterinary services is Chief Veterinary Officer of the United States.\n\nAPHIS was created in 1972 by Secretary’s Memorandum No. 1769.\n\nThe origins of the agency predate creation of USDA, to 1854 when the Office of Entomologist, Agricultural Section, U.S. Patent Office was created. It was the first of three agencies that eventually were merged to form APHIS. In 1881, a Cattle Commission was created in the Department of the Treasury that three years later was transferred to USDA. Plant quarantine functions followed in 1912 when USDA's Federal Horticultural Board was created. Between the 1880s and 1930s these evolved into the USDA Bureaus of Entomology, of Animal Industry, and of Plant Quarantine, respectively.\n\nIn 1953 the three bureaus were combined into the Agricultural Research Service. In 1971, the animal and plant regulatory functions were separated from ARS to create a new entity known as Animal and Plant Health Services. In 1972, the meat and poultry inspection divisions of the Consumer and Marketing Service (later known as the Agricultural Marketing Service) were added to APHS, thus creating the contemporary APHIS.\n\nIn 2003, many APHIS agricultural border inspectors were transferred to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, a unit of the newly created U.S. Department of Homeland Security.\n\nAPHIS is the primary agency responsible for responding to animal and plant disease(s) and pest emergencies as well as to other emergencies as set forth by the National Response Plan (NRP) completed in 2005 (APHIS Strategic Plan 2003-2008).\n\nThe originally-stated purpose of APHIS is to “protect the animal and plant resources of the nation” and carry out “a poultry and meat inspection program.” A more modern articulation of APHIS’s mission is “protecting and promoting U.S. agricultural health, regulating genetically engineered organisms, administering the Animal Welfare Act and carrying out wildlife damage management activities.”\n\nAPHIS aims to protect American animals, plants, and the agricultural industry by offering:\n\nThe threats and challenges within APHIS' scope include:\n\nAPHIS is granted specific authority under several federal statutes:\n\nAnimal Health Protection Act, \"et seq.\"\nGoverns the prevention, detection, control, and eradication of diseases and pests of animals, where \"animal\" is defined as \"any member of the animal kingdom (except a human).\" (1) (West 2009).\n\nAnimal Welfare Act (Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966), \"et seq.\"\nOriginally intended to prevent the theft of pets for sale to research facilities, the AWA now broadly regulates minimum standards of care and treatment of animals in research, exhibition, transport, and by dealers. It exempts birds, rats, or mice bred for use in research, horses not used for research, cold blooded animals, and all farm animals used in the production of “food and fiber.” It provides for licensing and registration of all animal dealers and exhibitors.\n\nHorse Protection Act, \nProhibits horses subjected to a process called “soring” (injecting or applying chemicals to a horse’s forelegs to accentuate its gait) from participating in and being transported to exhibitions, sales, shows, or auctions.\n\nAnimal Damage Control Act of March 2, 1931, \nProvides broad authority for investigation, demonstrations and control of “injurious animal species” (mammalian predators, rodents and birds.) Amended in 1991 to prevent the inadvertent introduction of brown tree snakes into other areas of the United States from Guam.\n\nLacey Act, \nMakes it unlawful for any person to import, export, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase any fish or wildlife or plant taken, possessed, transported, or sold in violation of any law, treaty, or regulation of the United States or in violation of any Indian tribal law whether in interstate or foreign commerce.\n\nPlant Protection Act, \"et seq.\"\nConsolidates all or part of ten existing USDA plant health laws into one comprehensive law. Gives USDA the authority to regulate and to prohibit or restrict the importation, exportation, and the interstate movement of plants, plant products, certain biological control organisms, noxious weeds, and plant pests.\n\nFederal Seed Act, Title III, \nRequires accurate labeling and purity standards for seeds in commerce, and prohibits the importation and movement of adulterated or misbranded seeds.\n\nHoneybee Act, \nProhibits or restricts the importation or entry of honeybees and honeybee semen into or through the United States in order to prevent the introduction and spread of diseases and parasites harmful to honeybees, as well as genetically undesirable germ plasm and undesirable bee species.\n\nAnimal quarantine laws:\n\nVirus-Serum-Toxin Act, \n\nAPHIS is divided into six operational programs units:\n\nAPHIS is also divided into three management support units (Legislative and Public Affairs, Marketing and Regulatory Programs Business Services, and Policy and Program Development), and two offices that support government-wide initiatives: the Office of Emergency Management and Homeland Security and Office of Civil Rights Enforcement and Compliance.\n\nThe current APHIS Administrator, Mr. Kevin Shea, was appointed in June 2013. His immediate predecessor, Dr. Greg Parham, was appointed in April 2011.\n\nThe Deputy Administrator for Veterinary Services also functions as Chief Veterinary Officer of the United States, and represents the U.S. Government at the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE). APHIS Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) is the National Plant Protection Authority; the Deputy Administrator for PPQ represents the United States in the North American Plant Protection Organization and other international fora related to plant health and quarantine.\n\nIn addition to its domestic operations, APHIS International Services staff several overseas offices, including veterinary and plant health attachés in U.S. diplomatic missions as well as technicians carrying out disease and pest eradication and control programs.\n\nAPHIS has a budget of approximately $800 million annually and employs about 7,000 people, about 5,000 of which are deployed as inspectors at ports, borders and on farms.\n\nIn 2014, The USDA’s Office of the Inspector General (OIG) criticized the Service for a number of issues including its failure to efficiently allocate resources and its failure to administer appropriate fines for animal welfare violations among other issues. The report found the Service conducted inspections at facilities that did not have any animals regulated under the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). According to the report, “[Animal Care] did not make the best use of its limited resources, which could have been assigned to inspect other more problematic facilities, including breeders, dealers, and exhibitors.” The Service was also criticized for prematurely closing cases that involved “grave (e.g., animal deaths) or repeat welfare violations.” When the service did levy fines against institutions for AWA violations, the Inspector General’s report found “penalties that were reduced by an average of 86 percent from… authorized maximum penalty per violation. Consequently, 26 of the 30 violators in our sample received” and that the Service “grant[ed] good faith reductions without merit or us[ed] a smaller number of violations than the actual number.” According to the USDA’s report, APHIS agreed with the findings and will begin implanting reforms.\n\nIn 2005, the USDA OIG published a report which identified numerous failures on the part of APHIS’ Animal Care (AC) unit to adequately enforce the AWA, including:\n\nThe OIG audit further reported that at almost one-third of facilities, IACUCs failed to ensure that principal investigators (PIs) considered alternatives to painful procedures; the report cites this failure on the part of IACUCs as being the most frequent AWA violation at animal research facilities.\n\nOn 4 February 2017, the USDA Animal Care Search Tool, a searchable database containing documents with details about the animals held by individual US animal research facility together with inspection and action reports, was removed from public access, with a stated reason of protecting personal information. The removal affects inspection reports, research facility annual reports, regulatory correspondence (such as official warnings), and certain enforcement records. Information from these documents can now only be requested via a Freedom of Information Act inquiry. This removal has been criticized as substantially limiting information on animal care in US institutions, and of inhibiting access to what is still available.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32053433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32053433", "title": "Berman hearing", "text": "Berman hearing\n\nA Berman hearing is a provision under California law for the administrative resolution of wage claims under the California Labor Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of the California Labor Code, §98. The hearing is named after Howard Berman, the member of the California State Assembly who instituted it.\n"}
{"id": "37064138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37064138", "title": "Brian Banks (American football)", "text": "Brian Banks (American football)\n\nBrian Banks (born July 24, 1985) is a former American football linebacker. He signed with the Atlanta Falcons of the National Football League (NFL) on April 3, 2013. Banks previously signed as an undrafted free agent with the Las Vegas Locomotives of the United Football League in 2012.\n\nBanks was a standout high school football star at Polytechnic High School (Poly) in Long Beach, California. In 2002, his Junior year, Banks verbally committed to USC. After being falsely accused of rape by classmate Wanetta Gibson, he spent more than five years in prison and five years on strict custody parole, but had his conviction overturned in 2012 after his accuser admitted she had fabricated the entire story. Following his exoneration, Banks sought to resume his football career, playing for the now defunct United Football League (UFL), attending mini-camps for several NFL teams, and later signing with the Atlanta Falcons.\n\nA native of Long Beach, California, Banks attended Long Beach Polytechnic High School, where he was teammates with DeSean Jackson, Darnell Bing, Winston Justice, and Marcedes Lewis. He was named one of Rivals.com's \"Juniors to Watch\" of the class of 2003, before being expelled from school due to a rape accusation, later shown to be false.\n\nIn the summer of 2012, Banks received tryouts with several NFL teams, including the Kansas City Chiefs, San Diego Chargers, and San Francisco 49ers. He attended minicamp with the Seattle Seahawks, whose head coach, Pete Carroll, was the one who had offered Banks a scholarship in 2002 when he was the head coach at USC.\n\nBanks signed with the Las Vegas Locomotives of the UFL on September 20, 2012, appearing in two games and making one tackle before the UFL suspended its season in October.\n\nBanks signed with the Falcons on April 3, 2013, participating in Falcons offseason workouts, OTA's, and training camp. Banks made his NFL debut in a preseason game against the Cincinnati Bengals, where he picked up two tackles. He played four preseason games with the Falcons before being released on August 30, 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Banks was asked by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell to speak at the 2014 NFL draft Rookie Symposium. Banks accepted and his speech was well received. A few weeks later, he was hired to join the NFL Department of Operations.\n\nIn the summer of 2002, Banks was arrested and charged after classmate Wanetta Gibson falsely accused him of dragging her into a stairway at Polytechnic High School (Poly) and raping her. Faced with a possible 41 years to life sentence, he accepted a plea deal that included five years in prison, five years of probation, and registering as a sex offender. Wanetta Gibson and her mother Wanda Rhodes sued the Long Beach Unified School District, claiming the Poly campus was not a safe environment, and won a $1.5 million settlement. Banks says that the lawyer said that by pleading guilty he would receive probation, but no jail time.\n\nIn March 2011, Gibson contacted Banks on Facebook, met with him, and admitted in the presence of an attorney that she had fabricated the story. Banks secretly recorded Gibson's confession, but she later refused to tell prosecutors that she had lied so she wouldn't have to return the money she and her family had won in court. \n\nPrior to the taped confession, Banks had asked for help from the California Innocence Project (CIP), a nonprofit law school clinic run by the San Diego-based law school California Western School of Law that investigates and litigates cases of factual innocence, but at that time there had not been sufficient evidence of Banks' innocence for them to take on the case. However, after the confession, CIP decided to make this the organization's first case involving a wrongfully convicted person who had already been released from prison. \n\nThe video evidence was not admissible in court, because the video had been made without Gibson's knowledge or consent and was not accompanied by a signed confession from the young woman. However, CIP was instrumental in putting together additional evidence supporting Banks’ story, which led the district attorney to dismiss all charges against him on May 24, 2012. He was also released from sex-offender status, allowing him to resume his aborted sports career.\n\nBanks supports CIP in its efforts on behalf of the wrongly-convicted, including participating in CIP's 2013 Innocence March. He often wears a shirt with the lettering \"XONR8\" (\"exonerate\"). \n\nOn April 12, 2013, the Long Beach Unified School District announced it was suing Wanetta Gibson for $2 million in an effort to recoup the $1.5 million she received, along with attorney's fees and punitive damages. On June 14, 2013, the school district won a $2.6 million judgment against Gibson, which includes the $750,000 settlement initially paid to her along with attorney's fees, interest, and $1 million in punitive damages. Gibson has gone into hiding and failed to appear at all court dates. She was due a second $750,000 payment under terms of the original 2007 deal, which was cancelled.\n\nA feature film project based on Banks' story, co-executive produced by Banks himself and Justin Brooks of CIP, is currently filming. It is directed by Tom Shadyac, the creator of such films as \"Bruce Almighty\" and \"Evan Almighty\", and features Aldis Hodge as Brian Banks, Greg Kinnear as Brooks and Tiffany Dupont as CIP attorney Alissa Bjerkhoel. The movie is to be released sometime in 2018.\n\nIn January 2018 Banks joined the Oxygen channel's series \"Final Appeal\", cohosting with Loni Coombs. The duo re-examine crimes in which the guilty verdict is in question; and attempt to discover and reevaluate evidence to help the convicted either achieve an appeal, or definitively determine guilt. The show intends to help those wrongly convicted, as Banks was.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45014467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45014467", "title": "Caribbean Financial Action Task Force", "text": "Caribbean Financial Action Task Force\n\nThe Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF) is an organization of states and territories of the Caribbean Basin that have agreed to implement common counter-measures against money laundering. CFATF has associate status within the Financial Action Task Force (on Money Laundering) (FATF).\n\nThe CFATF was established as the result of two key meetings convened in Aruba in and Jamaica. In Aruba in 1990 representatives of Caribbean and Central American countries developed a general approach to the problem of the laundering of criminal proceeds and made 19 recommendations. A meeting of ministers held in Kingston, Jamaica, in 1992, resulted in the Kingston Declaration, endorsing the commitment of the member states to implementing the recommendations and coordinating the implementation through establishment of the CFATF Secretariat.\n\nMembers of CFATF are:\n"}
{"id": "31669280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31669280", "title": "Carlisle v. United States", "text": "Carlisle v. United States\n\nCarlisle v. United States, 83 U.S. (16 Wall.) 147 (1872), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court ruled that \"[a]n alien, whilst domiciled in the country, owes a local and temporary allegiance, which continues during the period of his residence.\" The case has been cited in articles discussing the \"culture defense\" in criminal law. \n\nPrior to the United States Civil War, the claimants were subjects of the Queen of Great Britain, but had been residents within the United States prior and during the war. In December, 1861, the claimants began to manufacture saltpeter, an ingredient of gunpowder, in Santa Cave, a cave 7 miles (11.25km) southwest of Scottsboro, Alabama. During the war, the saltpeter was sold to the Confederate States of America military.\nIn 1864, the Union Army in a campaign through Alabama, seized sixty-five bales of cotton, valued at $43,232, stored on the claimant’s plantation. On December 25, 1868, after the surrender of confederate government, President Andrew Johnson issued Proclamation 179 which unconditionally and without reservation pardoned and provided amnesty to all who had supported the Confederate government.\nAfter the pardon, the claimants attempted to recover from the US government the proceeds of the sixty-five bales of cotton.\n\nWhen the claimants presented their claim after the pardons, the United States Court of Claims denied the request proclaiming that the United States government had the right to confiscate the bales of cotton because the claimants gave aid and comfort to the rebellion, and for that reason were not entitled to recover the proceeds of the cotton seized. However, in a unanomous decision, the Supreme Court reversed and held:\n"}
{"id": "35376358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35376358", "title": "CronLab", "text": "CronLab\n\nCronLab Limited is a privately held limited company which provides information security web filtering software solutions to businesses and consumers either directly or via integration into third party products.\n\nCronLab has offices in London, United Kingdom and Gothenburg, Sweden.\n\nCronLab, founded in Gothenburg, Sweden, introduced its first Anti-Spam Hardware Appliances in 2009. The appliances have received positive reviews from industry media such as \"PC Pro\", \"CRN Magazine\", and \"SC Magazine\",\nwhich cited the systems for their ease of use and quick set up, and tested the email filtering technology as 99% accurate.\n\nIn 2010 the company moved its headquarters to London, United Kingdom. It has also released software as a service hosted models of the spam filtering technology awarded a recommendation by \"Techworld\", \nand hosted email archiving solutions.\n\nCIDE Group, a toy manufacturer, partnered with CronLab on development of a children's tablet computer. The tablet, called \"Kurio\", features CronLab's hosted web-filtering and parental controls technology.\n\nCronLab has agreements for distribution in France, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Norway, Bulgaria, Moldova, Romania, \nIreland and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe company’s security products aim to protect against email and web threats such as spam, spyware, trojans and viruses, and they also provide an email archiving solution. \nCronLab’s products support multi-tenancy and are marketed to ISPs, MSPs and IT consultants. Their products can all also be white labelled.\n\n"}
{"id": "2335667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2335667", "title": "Down payment", "text": "Down payment\n\nDown payment (or downpayment, also called a deposit in British English), is a payment used in the context of the purchase of expensive items such as a car and a house, whereby the payment is the initial upfront portion of the total amount due and it is usually given in cash at the time of finalizing the transaction. A loan or the amount in cash is then required to make the full payment.\n\nThe main purposes of a down payment are to ensure that the lending institution has enough capital to create money for a loan in fractional reserve banking systems and to recover some of the balance due on the loan in the event that the borrower defaults. In real estate, the asset is used as collateral in order to secure the loan against default. If the borrower fails to repay the loan, the lender is legally entitled to sell the asset and retain a portion of the proceeds sufficient to cover the remaining balance on the loan, including fees and interest added. A down payment in this case reduces the lender's risk to less than the value of the collateral, making it more likely that the lender will recover the full amount in the event of default.\n\nThe size of the down payment thus determines the extent to which the lender is protected against the various factors that might reduce the value of the collateral, as well as lost profits between the time of the last payment and the eventual sale of the collateral.\n\nFurthermore, making a down payment demonstrates that the borrower is able to raise a certain amount of money for long-term investment, which the lender may desire as evidence that the borrower's finances are sound, and that the borrower is not borrowing beyond his or her means.\n\nIf the borrower is unable to pay off the loan in its entirety, the down payment amount is forfeited.\n\nIn the United States, down payments for home purchases typically vary between 3.5% and 20% of the purchase price. The Federal Housing Administration has advocated lower down payments since its inception in 1934, and, currently, borrowers that qualify for an FHA loan pay only 3.5% for a down payment. With rising home prices in the years from 2000 to 2007, lenders were willing to accept smaller or no down payment (either through 100% financing, seller-assisted down payment assistance, government down payment providers or by providing a combination of an 80% first and 20% second mortgages) so that more individuals could purchase homes as their primary residences. Currently, in the United States, the Department of Veterans Affairs offers complete financing for qualifying veterans. The USDA Home Loan program also offers complete mortgage loans with no down payment. These loans are available as direct or guaranteed loans and are offered to qualifying borrowers purchasing a home in a more rural area. Most state finance housing agencies offer down payment assistance. In 2013, the agencies offer a program that provides assistance to qualifying homebuyers of up to three percent of the loan amount. The money from the state housing agencies can be used for down payment or closing costs.\n\nThere is more risk for lenders when individuals purchase a home as an investment property. Therefore, the lender may charge a higher interest rate and expect a higher down payment.\n\n"}
{"id": "3628628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3628628", "title": "Dual mandate", "text": "Dual mandate\n\nA dual mandate is the practice in which elected officials serve in more than one elected or other public position simultaneously. This practice is sometimes known as double jobbing in Britain and \"cumul des mandats\" in France; not to be confused with double dipping in the United States, i.e. being employed by and receiving a retirement pension from the same public authority at the same time. Thus, if someone who is already mayor of a town or city councillor becomes elected as MP or senator at the national or state legislature and retains both positions, this is a dual mandate.\n\nDual mandates are sometimes prohibited by law. For example, in federal states, federal office holders are often not permitted to hold state office. In states with a presidential system of government, membership of the executive, the legislature, or the judiciary generally disqualifies a person from simultaneously holding office in either of the other two bodies. In states with bicameral legislatures, one usually cannot simultaneously be a member of both houses. The holder of one office who wins election or appointment to another where a dual mandate is prohibited must either resign the former office or refuse the new one.\n\nA member of the European Parliament (MEP) may not be a member of the legislature of a member state. This dates from a 2002 European Union decision, which came into effect at the 2004 European elections in most member states, at the 2007 national election in the Republic of Ireland, and at the 2009 European elections in the United Kingdom.\n\nOriginally, MEPs were nominated by national parliamentarians from among their own membership. Prior to the first direct elections in 1979, the dual mandate was discussed. Some advocated banning it, arguing that MEPs who were national MPs were often absent from one assembly in order to attend the other (indeed, the early death of Peter Michael Kirk was blamed by his election agent on overwork resulting from his dual mandate). Others claimed that members with a dual mandate enhanced communication between national and European assemblies. There was a particular interest in the dual mandate question in Denmark: Eurosceptic Danish Social Democrats supported a compulsory dual mandate, to ensure that the state's MEPs expressed the same views as the national legislature, and the government of Denmark supported a compulsory dual mandate when the other eight member states supported an optional dual mandate. However, a 1976 European Parliament law preparing for the 1979 elections expressly permitted a dual mandate. In 1978 the German politician Willy Brandt suggested that one third of MEPs should be national MPs.\n\nDual mandates are rare in Australia. It is illegal to be a member of any state parliament and the Australian parliament simultaneously. A member of a state parliament seeking federal office must resign before seeking election to the Federal Parliament. It is possible but unusual to be a member of a local government and another parliament.\n\nIn 2004 Clover Moore became the independent member for Sydney in the NSW Parliament without resigning as Lord Mayor of Sydney. The issue of Moore holding both positions had brought the issue to the forefront in Australia and led the premier of New South Wales in 2012 to propose a new law, dubbed in the media as the \"Get Clover bill\", which banned this dual mandate. The proposed law was adopted and in September 2012 Moore resigned her NSW seat soon after she was reelected as mayor.\n\nAs in neighboring France, the culture of dual mandates is very strong in Belgium and that country currently has one of the highest percentage of dual mandate holders (MPs, aldermen, municipal councilors) in the world. During the 2003–2009 period, 87.3% of members of the Walloon (French-speaking) Parliament held dual mandates, followed by 86,5% in the Flemish (Dutch-speaking) Parliament, 82,0% in the Chamber of Representatives (the Federal lower house) and 68.9% in the Senate. During that same period, 76.5% of all European Parliament MPs from Belgium held dual mandates.\n\nMore than one fifth of all Belgian MPs were mayor at the same time with, by far, by the highest proportion (40%) to be found in the Walloon Parliament.\n\nIn Canada dual mandates are rare and are frequently barred by legislation at the federal, provincial, or territorial level. At the federal level, section 39 of the Constitution Act, 1867 prevents a Senator from being elected as a Member of Parliament; similarly, s. 65(c) of the Canada Elections Act makes members of provincial or territorial legislatures ineligible to be candidates to the House of Commons. At the provincial level, the situation varies from one province to another.\n\nIn other circumstances, an elected official almost always resigns their first post when elected to another. Dual representation has occurred occasionally when the member was elected to a second office shortly before their other term of office was due to expire anyway and whereby the short time frame would not merit the cost of a special by-election. In 1996, for example, Jenny Kwan continued to be a Vancouver city councillor after being elected to the provincial legislature. The British Columbia legislature had debated a \"Dual Office Prohibition Act\" which failed to pass second reading.\n\nIn the first few years after Confederation in 1867, however, double mandates were common. In the first House of Commons, there were fifteen Members of Parliament from Quebec who simultaneously held seats in the National Assembly of Quebec, including the Premier Pierre-Joseph-Olivier Chauveau. There were also four members of Parliament from Ontario who also held seats in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario, including the first two Premiers, John Sandfield Macdonald and Edward Blake. Other prominent federal politicians with double mandates included George-Étienne Cartier, Christopher Dunkin, Hector Langevin, the second Premier of British Columbia Amor de Cosmos, and two members from Manitoba, Donald Smith and Pierre Delorme. Another famous example is that of the \"de facto\" leader of the Liberals, George Brown, who ran for both federal and provincial seats in 1867. Brown lost both elections, and soon thereafter began campaigning for the prohibition of double mandates.\n\nThe double mandate was prohibited from the start in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick; it was abolished in Ontario in 1872, in Manitoba in 1873, and in 1873 the federal parliament passed a law against it; Quebec passed its own law abolishing it in 1874.\n\nHowever, dual mandates within a province remained legal. From 1867 to 1985, 305 mayors were also members of the Quebec legislative assembly (MLA). The two best-known cases were those of S.N. Parent who was simultaneously mayor of Quebec City (1894-1906), MLA and Premier of Quebec (1900-1905). Longtime Montreal Mayor Camilien Houde (1928–32, 1938–40) was also simultaneously MLA for a total of 2 /1/2 years during his mandates as mayor. However that type of dual mandate had virtually ceased when laws adopted in 1978 and 1980 prohibited MLAs from holding any local mandate.\n\nIt is common for the MPs of the Finnish Parliament to hold a mandate as a member of their local municipal council as well. 79 percent of MPs elected to parliament in 2011 were also municipal council members.\n\nThe \"cumul des mandats\" (, \"accumulation of mandates\") is a common practice in the French Fifth Republic (1958–present). It consists of simultaneously holding two or more elective offices at different levels of government — local, regional, national and European — as mayors, MPs, senators, Members of the European Parliament, and President of the General Council in their home regions. Sometimes, officials hold as many as four positions. While officials may not be elected to more than one office at the same level (such as being both an MP and a senator), they may hold offices in any combination at the municipal, departmental, regional, national and European levels. The \"cumul des mandats\" is controversial in France, being accused of fostering absenteeism and cronyism.\n\nSeveral laws to limit the practice have been introduced in recent decades. By far the most coveted local mandate is that of mayor, traditionally a highly prestigious function in France.\n\nA hotly debated law to prohibit all dual mandates, to take effect in 2017, was adopted in July 2013. Following the adoption of the law, former President Sarkozy and other members of the opposition UMP party have declared that if elected in 2017, their party would revise or even revoke that law. Many Socialist Party MPs and senators have also expressed their unease with the law imposed by President Hollande and might welcome a review of the law. In the meantime, the ubiquitous 'député-maire' (MP and mayor) and 'sénateur-maire' are still familiar figures of the French political scene.\n\n\nMultiple mandates at the legislative level\n\nParliamentary mandates are incompatible with each other:\n\n\nA member from one of the above assemblies can not combine its mandate with more than one of the following mandates :\n\n\nExceptions: They can hold a third office in a town of less than 3,500 inhabitants.\n\nThey may also hold a third office as a councillor, vice-president or president of an Urban community, an Agglomeration community or a \"Communauté de communes\", as these terms are elected by indirect universal suffrage, by municipal councils from among the councillors.\n\nFor example, a member of the National Assembly has the right to be general/regional councillor or President of a regional/general council. They cannot hold a third office unless they are the mayor, deputy mayor or municipal councillor of a city of less than 3,500 inhabitants.\n\nIn 2008, 85% of members of parliament held multiple posts Following the June 2012 legislative elections, it was still the case that 85% of all National Assembly members (438 deputies out of 577) held a double mandate (often as mayor of a mid- to large-size city) and 33 have four mandates. Currently, out of 348 senators, 152 are also mayors.\n\nThe accumulation of local mandates\n\nThey cannot have more than two local mandates.\n\nThe following mandates are incompatible each other:\n\n\nFor example, an elected official cannot be mayor and President of the Regional Council. However, all other local mandates are cumulative. A mayor can also be a general councillor and a president of a Regional Council can also be deputy-mayor of a city.\n\nExceptions are the same as those for parliamentarians (Cities of less than 3,500 inhabitants and the intercommunalities)\n\nThe accumulation of mandates and governmental functions \n\nA member of the French government cannot be a member of any assembly. However, he may retain any local mandate he or she holds. A cabinet minister can exercise a maximum of two local mandates in addition to his or her government function.\n\nFor example, the Prime Minister, a Minister or Secretary of State can be mayor, or President of a general, regional or intercommunal council or sit in one of these assemblies.\n\nCurrently, over two-thirds of the members of the French government are engaged in one or two more local mandates.\n\nThe rationales for holding multiple offices are varied. Holding a seat in the Senate, National Assembly, or European Parliament gives local mayors a valuable method of tapping funds to develop their home cities and regions. It also can give opportunities to curry favor with other important officials, with opportunities at each level. Salaries for positions can be combined (to a point) as well. For politicians with national ambitions, retaining a position in a local town can give them a down-to-earth aura that can appeal to voters. These advantages have made politicians very wary of reducing the practice of the \"cumul\" with legislation despite other moves to end perceptions of favoritism and corruption among politicians.\n\nIt has been common practice in France since the French Third Republic (1870). But there are also many cases of \"cumul\" before this period, for example, the writer Alexis de Tocqueville was a member from 1839 to 1851. In 1849 he was appointed Foreign Affairs minister, and at the same time he was elected President of the General Council of Manche from 1849 to 1851 (councillor from 1842 to 1852).\n\nThere are several reasons for this phenomenon, and one of them is that France has a long tradition of centralization, compared to countries such as Germany, Italy, and Spain. Local governments have less power and skills than that the \"Länder\" of Germany, or \"Autonomous Communities\" of Spain. The local mandates in France are less important than in other countries, and therefore politicians have more time to devote to a parliamentary mandate.\n\nThe \"cumul\" is a widespread practice and has grown much more prevalent in modern France. In 1946, 36 percent of deputies in the National Assembly held an additional office. By 1956, this number had already increased to 42 percent and by 1970, 70 percent of deputies held an additional elected office; in 1988, 96 percent did.\n\nMany of the most prominent politicians in France make use or have made use of the \"cumul\". Jacques Chirac served as Mayor of Paris between 1977 and 1995. During this same time, Chirac also served as a deputy in the National Assembly from Corrèze, briefly as Member of the European Parliament, and even as Prime Minister between 1986 and 1988. Former Prime Minister Pierre Bérégovoy served concurrently as mayor of Nevers and deputy of Nièvre in the mid-1980s.\n\nAccording to French law against accumulation of electoral mandates, Yves Jégo should have resigned from one of the following mandates before the 21st of April 2010 (one month after the Regional elections) :\nBut giving as a pretext a legal complaint from the Front National's candidates, he hold the three of them during more than one year, plus his local mandate of president of the « communauté de communes des deux fleuves » (CC2F).\n\nLionel Jospin (Prime Minister from 1997 to 2002) imposed on his government ministers an unwritten rule of having no local office. For example, Catherine Trautmann stepped down as Mayor of Strasbourg (while remaining a member of the city council) to become Minister of Culture; conversely, Martine Aubry stepped down from the Ministry of Labour when elected Mayor of Lille in 2001. This rule was more or less upheld by Jacques Chirac during the governments of Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Dominique de Villepin for the 2002-2007 term, with a few notable exceptions (Jean-François Copé was mayor of Meaux, Nicolas Sarkozy was President of the Hauts-de-Seine General Council); for instance, Philippe Douste-Blazy had to step down from the Toulouse mayorship upon joining the government.\n\n, no such rule was stated for the François Fillon government: Alain Juppé, former Minister for Development was mayor of Bordeaux, and was defeated in his National Assembly constituency (a third cumulative mandate) by 50.9% to 49.1% of the votes by the Socialist candidate. Additionally, Hervé Morin, the Minister of Defense, is mayor of Épaignes, and Éric Besson, Minister of Immigration and National Identity, is the mayor of Donzère.\n\nIn Hong Kong, dual mandate is common for members of the territory's Legislative Council, who serve concurrently as members of one of the territory's eighteen district councils. Before the abolition of the two municipal councils in the territory in 1999, it was common for politicians to serve concurrently at all three levels.\n\nThe instability caused by the close result of the 1981 general election was exacerbated by the number of government TDs who also served as MEPs and for whom the opposition refused pairing when they were abroad. This led to further elections in February 1982 and again in November.\n\nIn 1991, cabinet ministers and junior ministers were prohibited from serving as local councillors. The prohibition was extended to other Oireachtas members by the Local Government (No. 2) Act 2003, an amendment to the Local Government Act 2001. Attempts to include it in the 2001 Act failed after a rebellion by Fianna Fáil backbenchers; the 2003 Act passed after a compensation package was agreed for those losing out.\n\nThe 2001 Act prohibited being a member of multiple county or city councils, or multiple town councils, or both a town and city council. Brian O'Shea was a member of both Waterford City Council and Waterford County Council until 1993. County councillors were allowed to sit on a town council, and many did so. The 2003 Act provided that a candidate elected simultaneously to a forbidden combination of local councils has three days to choose which seat to take up, with the other or others then being considered vacant. The Local Government Reform Act 2014 abolished town councils and instead subdivided most counties into municipal districts; the county council's members are the district councillors for all districts within the county.\n\nSome members of the Irish republican party Sinn Féin held the office as a Member of The Northern Ireland Assembly and Member of Parliament within the respective houses. Martin McGuinness, former Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland held the office as Member of the Northern Ireland Assembly and simultaneously was a MP in the House of Commons. However, in 2012 Sinn Féin committed to end dual jobbing; this resulted in McGuinness' resignation from the House of Commons in 2013.\n\nPer the Spanish Constitution, legislators in the regional assemblies of the Autonomous Communities are barred from being elected to a seat in the Congress of Deputies, the lower house of the Cortes Generales. More precisely, regional legislators can run for the seat, but if elected they must choose between the regional and national parliaments. Nevertheless, members of lower tiers of the Spanish decentralized structure, such as provincial councillors or members of local councils, including mayors, can and have held seats in the Congress of Deputies. The rule barring regional legislators does not apply to the upper house of the Cortes, the Senate: in fact, regional legislatures are entitled to appoint a varying number of members from their ranks to the Senate, according to the population of the region. Currently, the Autonomous Communities appoint 56 Senators, the other 208 being directly elected in general elections.\n\nAt the EU level, prior to the 2009 European Parliament elections, there were a small number of members of the European Parliament who were also members of the House of Lords. However, it is now European law that a member of the European Parliament (MEP) may not be a member of the legislature of a member state. This, with regard to the United Kingdom, therefore applies to the House of Commons and the House of Lords, as the constituent bodies forming that member state's legislature. As it is impossible to disclaim a life peerage, it has been ruled that peers (who sit as members of the House of Lords) must take a \"leave of absence\" from the Lords in order to be an MEP; this is also the procedure for when a peer is the UK's European Commissioner, which has in recent times usually been the case.\n\nThere have been members of the House of Commons also holding seats in the devolved bodies in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The November 2009 report by the Committee on Standards in Public Life into the controversy surrounding MPs' expenses noted that \"double jobbing\" was \"unusually ingrained in the political culture\" of Northern Ireland, where 16 of 18 MPs were MLAs, compared to one Scottish MP being an MSP (First Minister Alex Salmond), and no Welsh MPs being AMs. The Committee recommended that Westminster ban multiple mandates from the 2011 assembly elections. Parties in Northern Ireland agreed to a ban from the 2015 elections. The ability to dual mandate between the Assembly of Northern Ireland and the House of Commons (or the Irish Dáil Éireann) ended as from the Northern Ireland Assembly election, 2016 following the Northern Ireland (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2014. The Wales Act 2014 also applied a similar restriction on the National Assembly for Wales (in that its members cannot also be members of the House of Commons) as from the assembly election in 2016.\n\nNothing in UK law prohibits a member of the House of Commons or the House of Lords from being simultaneously a mayor, council leader, or other locally elected official. Thus Ken Livingstone remained MP for Brent East until the dissolution of Parliament despite his election as Mayor of London a year before. Boris Johnson resigned his seat as MP for Henley on being elected mayor in 2008, but became an MP again in 2015, a year prior to the end of his second term as mayor (he did not seek a third term). Sadiq Khan, elected as the Labour mayor in the 2016 election, resigned his seat as MP for Tooting soon after his election to the mayoralty. Numerous members of the House of Lords however hold positions in local government.\n\nAt a lower level, it is common for people to hold seats on both a district council and a county council. Several MPs have also retained their council seats, most often until the expiration of their terms; Mike Hancock simultaneously held a council seat and a seat in Parliament between his election to Parliament in 1997 and his defeat in the local elections in 2014.\n\n\"The term dual mandate is also applied to the twin objectives of the Federal Reserve Bank: to control inflation and promote employment.\"\n\nThe practice is banned by the constitutions of many U.S. states, but as of 1992 it was still legal in Connecticut, Illinois, New Jersey and New York. The U.S. Constitution prohibits members of the Senate or House from holding positions within the Executive Branch (Art. I, Sec. 6, cl. 2), and limits the president to his salary as chief executive, saying he may not \"receive... any other Emolument from the United States, or any of them\" (Art. II, Sec. 1, cl. 7).\n\nIn April 1984, Governor of Florida Bob Graham received legislation that passed unanimously in both houses of the Florida Legislature that would forbid public officials from receiving retirement pay and regular pay simultaneously for the same position.\n\nIn August 2008, Governor of Illinois Rod Blagojevich proposed legislation that would prohibit dual-office holding as part of changes to the state's ethics bill, stating that \"dual government employment creates the potential for a conflict of interest because a legislator's duties to his or her constituents and his or her public employer are not always consistent.\" Critics, such as Representative Susana Mendoza, called the actions \"spite\" on the part of the governor.\n\nFulfilling a campaign pledge that he had made when first running for the New Jersey Legislature, Jack Sinagra sponsored a bill passed by the New Jersey Senate in 1992 that would ban the practice. At the time that the legislation first passed, there were some twenty elected officials who served in the New Jersey Legislature and another elected office, including Assemblyman Bill Pascrell, who was also mayor of Paterson, New Jersey; State Senator Ronald Rice, who also served on the Newark City Council; and Assemblyman John E. Rooney, who was also mayor of Northvale. These officials protested the proposed ban as interfering with the will of voters to elect officials as they see fit. A newspaper called former State senator Wayne R. Bryant the \"king of double dipping\" because he was collecting salaries from as many as four public jobs he held simultaneously.\n\nGovernor of New Jersey Jon Corzine signed legislation in September 2007 that banned the practice statewide, but the 19 legislators holding multiple offices as of February 1, 2008, were grandfathered into the system and allowed to retain their positions. As of January 2013, only four of the nineteen (listed in bold) continue to hold a dual mandate.\nSenators:\nAssembly members:\n\nIn February 2001, Jean Schmidt introduced legislation in the Ohio House of Representatives that would forbid public officials from receiving a government pension while still serving in office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35790369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35790369", "title": "El Narco: Inside Mexico's Criminal Insurgency", "text": "El Narco: Inside Mexico's Criminal Insurgency\n\nEl Narco: Inside Mexico's Criminal Insurgency is a non-fiction book of the Mexican Drug War written by Ioan Grillo. In \"El Narco\", Grillo takes a close look at the Mexican drug trade, starting with the term \"El Narco\", which has come to represent the vast, faceless criminal network of drug traffickers who cast a murderous shadow over Mexico. The book covers the frontline of the Mexican Drug War. It seeks to trace the origins of the illegal drug trade in Mexico, the recent escalation of violence, the human cost of the drug trade and organized crime in the country. The book takes a critical stance on the unsuccessful efforts made by the Mexican government and the United States to confront the violence and its causes.\n\nGrillo's book draws a portrait of the Mexican drug cartels and how they have radically transformed in the past couple of decades. For the author, the criminal organizations in Mexico are not gangs; they are a \"movement and an industry drawing in hundreds of thousands from bullet-ridden barrios to marijuana-growing mountains\". The book explains how the cartels have created paramilitary death squads with tens of thousands of armed men from the country of Guatemala to the Texan border. It contains testimonies from members inside of the cartels; and while \"El Narco\" shows that the \"devastation\" of the Mexican Drug War may be south of the U.S. border, Grillo pinpoints that the United States \"is knee-deep in this conflict\".\n\nIn the British edition, published in September 2011, the book bore the subtitle, \"The Bloody Rise of Mexican Drug Cartels\". The US edition came out two months later, bearing a different subtitle. A Spanish-language version of the book titled \"El narco: En el corazón de la insurgencia criminal mexicana\" has also been released.\n\nIoan Grillo is an English journalist and author of the book \"El Narco: Inside Mexico's Criminal Insurgency\". He has been reporting on the Mexican Drug War and the Latin American illegal drug trade since 2001. He is currently a correspondent for \"TIME magazine\" as well as producing TV special reports and documentaries for stations including \"PBS\" and \"Channel 4\" of the United Kingdom. Grillo has also worked as a reporter for \"CNN\", \"The Houston Chronicle\", and \"Sunday Telegraph\", where he has witnessed military operations, mafia killings, and drug seizures in his work. He has reported on Al Jazeera, France 24, \"The Sunday Times\", \"Gatopardo\", and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". He currently lives in Mexico City.\n\nAccording to the biography section in his official webpage, Grillo grew up in the coastal city of Brighton, England—famous for its pink candy, pebble beaches, colleges and bubbling night clubs. On the darker side, however, Brighton is notorious for being one of British's top places for drug consumption. And according to the author, few people there realize where the substances they are intaking come from or what they might give or takeaway from those countries. Moreover, Grillo began working as a drug war journalist after being fascinated \"by the riddle of these ghost-like figures\" who make more than $30 billion a year and are idolized in popular songs known as narcocorridos and chased by the Mexican and U.S. authorities. For over a decade, Grillo has followed the end-less murder scenes in \"bullet-ridden streets, mountains where drugs are born as pretty flowers, and scarred criminals from prison cells to luxury condos\". Grillo has discussed the drug war with two Mexican presidents, three attorneys general and a U.S. ambassador, among others.\n\nThe following excerpt from the book is set in Culiacán, capital city of the Sinaloa, the northwestern state that is home to the Sinaloa Cartel and is known as the \"cradle of Mexican drug smuggling\": \nBelow is an excerpt from \"Time\" magazine published on 23 October 2011. It is the confession of a cartel member that is imprisoned:\nThe \"Global Post\" published a portion of the book where Grillo interviews an American agent who infiltrates a drug cartel:\nAccording to Blogcritics, \"El Narco\" is a \"tough, straightforward, kick-in-the-nuts reportage by a man who is determined to ignore all the ideological gibberish and see for himself what's really going on in Mexico\". They noted that \"El Narco\" is also a \"really ugly book full of really ugly facts related by a terse, insightful writer who knows how to shape a powerful and compelling story into a powerful and compelling argument\". Moreover, \"The Boston Globe\" said that Grillo is one of those authors that \"does not forget\" the newspaper headlines in Mexico's drug war that often \"feel unreal\" and go \"beyond comprehension\". He is also an author who \"takes the advantage\" of his sources to provide insight for the drug war from \"nearly every angle\", from America's attempts to stifle drug trafficking to a nation's history and drug culture. His book, \"El Narco\", is filled with \"sort of unforgettable details\" in which only a reporter who has been behind the Mexican Drug War for years \"would be privy\". Dudley Althaus of the \"Houston Chronicle\" stated that Grillo \"traces the beast's footprints with meticulous research\" and with \"courageous reporting on some of [Mexico's] meanest streets\". In addition, William Booth of the \"Washington Post\" said that Grillo \"goes much, much deeper\" in reporting the \"crazy death spiral of drug violence\" in Mexico's drug war. But most importantly, Booth mentioned that \"El Narco\" \"tells us how we got here\". The \"Powell's Books\" bookstore chains commented that the book is a \"propulsive account of the blood-soaked machinery of 'El Narco,' the shadowy complex of drug cartels, street gangs, and paramilitary death squads that have littered Mexican streets with bodies and AK-47 shells\". Grillo also explains how the violence is traced back to the vacuum left by the demise of the Institutional Revolutionary Party's (PRI) single-party rule \"but delicately balanced system of corruption, painting a grim portrait of the corrupt police, soldiers, and officials who, figuring they can't beat the crime, make a tidy fortune by joining it\".\n\nTim Padgett of the \"Time\" magazine noted that Grillo \"explores that world as deeply as few journalists have dared;\" nonetheless, Padgett said that the historical context of the book not only indicts \"Mexican and Latin American politicos but U.S. policymakers as well\". The \"Publishers Weekly\", while noting that the book was a \"propulsive account of the blood-soaked machinery\", concluded that Grillo pinpoints that \"America's hard-line rhetoric has failed.\" The magazine stated that Grillo's book can be as \"perceptive as his high-octane reportage\". The \"Kirkus Reviews\" noted that the book emphasizes the \"chilling account of the murderous growth of Mexican drug cartels\", and concluded that \"El Narco\" is a \"valuable contribution to the literature of the Drug War\". The weekly television show known as \"Dan Rather Reports\", that airs on HDNet, noted that \"El Narco\" is \"riveting, authoritative reporting from the front lines of the Mexican drug wars\". It argued that the book shows how the Mexican drug war has \"explosive potential consequences for every American, and Ioan Grillo's book shows you why\". \"The West Australian\" said that \"El Narco\" is an essential reading for those wishing to understand \"how a violent criminal insurgency can take root in an advanced country with a trillion-dollar economy\". But, it said that the book is not \"for the faint hearted\". According to the newspaper, the book engulfs an account of the \"rivers of blood in which its citizens are drowning\", since Mexico's drug war \"is a case study in the way brutal mafia capitalism has morphed into a criminal insurgency, the like of which is spreading 'like bushfire' in the Americas\".\n\n\"Reforma\", a Mexican newspaper, said that Grillo used the \"closest information possible to his object of work\", which means that he ran through serious \"threats\" to get his work done. Due to Grillo's experience and professionalism, Reforma argues that \"El Narco\" is both \"horrifying and useful\". The \"San Antonio Express-News\" claims that the book \"delivers the first authoritative and comprehensive examination\" of the mafia killings in Mexico. The newspaper explains that Grillo's book can help readers \"understand the homicidal madness just across the river\". It concluded by comparing the book with a \"big canvas\" that traces the rise of the Mexican drug trafficking organizations from the quaint 19th-century origins. \"The New Yorker\" wrote a review for \"El Narco\" and noted that the reading was \"terrific—full of vivid front-line reporting; diverse interviews; a sense of history; a touch of social science; clarifying statistics; and realistic reviews of what might be done to improve things, none of it easy\". The magazine said it is an \"essential reading\". It argued that it is America's \"weak control of automatic weapons\" and its \"supply [of] guns and money\" that fuel the bloodshed in Mexico. The Globe Corner Bookstore said that \"El Narco\" \"draws the first definitive portrait of Mexico's drug cartels and how they have radically transformed in the last decade\". In addition, it mentioned that \"the devastation may be south of the Rio Grande, but America is knee-deep in this conflict.\" \"The Independent\" noted that Grillo and his book have \"achieved extraordinary access to gangsters and police (often the same people)\". And, the author shows how the Mexican drug cartels originated in the western state of Sinaloa, where the conditions for growing opium poppy were ideal, in the late 19th century. The New York-based magazine known as the \"Bookforum\" said that several books have been written in Spanish about Mexico's drug war, but Grillos book is perhaps the \"first attempt in English for a popular audience\". The magazine noted that Grillo has spent years traveling to Mexico's drug war hotspots: \"Sinaloa, Michoacán, Ciudad Juárez—recording interviews with cops and narcos, visiting grave sites and murder scenes\". \"Bookforum\" concludes that Grillo's book was an attempt to dig more and beyond the \"reigning mythology of the Mexican drug war\".\n\nThe \"Mother Jones\" magazine mentioned that the book's \"graphic and fast-paced history covers south-of-the-border trafficking from '60s-era shipments of Acapulco Gold to the decapitation-filled headlines wrought by the likes of kingpin (and alleged billionaire) Joaquín 'El Chapo' Guzmán and his rivals, the Zetas—special ops soldiers turned criminals\". The progressive online magazine known as the \"Salon\" reported that the drug war violence in Mexico \"seldom makes the front page in the U.S\" newspapers. Nonetheless, they stated that many American officials are \"worried that the cartels are taking on aspects of an 'insurgency,' which could make them a threat to the Mexican government\". The \"Salon\" noted that Grillo's book \"lays out the history of drug smuggling in the region over the past 100 years or so, and then homes in on the rise of the Northern Mexican cartels during the 2000s\". Sylvia Longmire, a drug war analyst and author of the book \"Cartel: The Coming Invasion of Mexico's Drug Wars\", said that one rarely comes across a writer like Grillo \"who really \"gets\" it\". She said that Grillo also did an incredible job navigating Mexican politics and explaining the role of how the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) \"[negotiated] and [played] along with the cartels, and how the transition to real democracy in 2000 dramatically altered that delicate balance\". She also mentioned that Grillo proposes that the start of the Mexican Drug War did not start in 2006—a convenient historical marker because that's when Calderón took office, but rather in 2004 in Nuevo Laredo, where the Sinaloa cartel made incursions to fight off Los Zetas. Malcolm Beith, author of \"The Last Narco: Inside the Hunt for El Chapo, the World's Most Wanted Drug Lord\", said that Grillo is the \"most intrepid and knowledgeable foreign journalist covering the drug war in Mexico today\", and in \"El Narco\", the author provides us with more than just a glimpse of Mexico's criminal underworld and its history. According to Beith, Grillo grants the readers \"access to the soul and mind of El Narco, as well as deftly explaining and providing new insight into this hemispheric war on drugs\". Howard Campbell, professor in Anthropology at the University of Texas at El Paso and author of the book \"Drug War Zone: Frontline Dispatches from the Streets of El Paso and Juarez\", said that Grillo \"puts a human face on the violent tragedy caused by U.S. drug demand and Mexican cartel criminality\", and strongly recommends \"El Narco\", a \"timely and troubling book\".\n\n\"CNNMéxico\" stated that Grillo has been in \"more crime scenes than he can remember\", and that his book includes \"interviews with hitmen, members of the cartels, politicians and police officers, and people trapped in the crossfire\". According to the Spanish-speaking newspaper, Grillo repeatedly comes back to an idea: \"Wars start because people cannot feed their families. They start because people feel inferior, without rights, angry and frustrated. They want something bigger in their lives. And you only need a group people with moral depression to convince them that killing and dying spectacularly means glory. Islamic terrorist, kamikaze squads, street gangs, the cartels. They were all children at one time.\" Goodreads said that Grillo did an \"incredible job\" for his book, where he \"synthesized traditional interviews, academic research, pop culture and WikiLeaks to create a powerful and alarming picture of the cartels of Mexico\". He was also complimented for explaining the \"root causes\" that threaten Mexican society and \"probably have potential to be a disruptive force across the American continent and perhaps globally\". Borderland Beat noted that Grillo seems to be \"tune with the realities on the ground in Mexico\". In addition, it mentioned that the author takes the reader into the world of the \"narcocorridos\", the drug ballads celebrating the exploits of the drug traffickers; Grillo also explores the \"Santa Muerte, the peculiarly Mexican church (or cult, depending on whom you ask), favored by the poor, the delinquent, and the dopers\". The writer of the article in Borderland Beat mentioned that although Grillo believes that the Mexican drug cartels are closer to a \"criminal insurgency\", he cannot buy the appellegation because the cartels do not have an ideology behind what they do, since their goal is making money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18026493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18026493", "title": "Electronic message journaling", "text": "Electronic message journaling\n\nElectronic message journaling is the process of retaining information relating to electronic messages. In this context, electronic messages are defined as any type of electronic communication data structure. Historically this was an electronic mail, but it may also include instant messages, audio messages (such as those in VoIP), text messages, facsimile messages, or other user collaboration protocol data structures. Beginning about 2005 electronic messages began to include social media that included user-generated content such as blogs, discussion forums, posts, chats, tweets, podcasting, pins, digital images, video and audio files. Several implementation variations exist, altering when, what, and how information is retained.\n\nArchival of electronic messages has become a concern in modern society as regulations and compliance requirements for businesses have become more prevalent with notable Congressional acts, such as Sarbanes Oxley. Other compliance areas of concern are those dealing with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 17a-4, NASD 3010, HIPAA, the Data Protection Act, and the Patriot Act. Several large corporations lost significant amounts of money because of their failure to meet these compliance requirements. Morgan Stanley had a $1.45 billion judgment against them and Merrill Lynch was issued a $2.5 million fine because of their inability to reproduce e-mail transmissions. Because of growing concerns of similar repercussions, major corporations are implementing electronic message journaling to meet compliance requirements.\n\nA communication system recognizes and identifies any new outgoing or incoming message. It then creates a journal message containing information extracted from the new outgoing or incoming message. The journal message is then processed for storage while the new outgoing or incoming message is processed normally. Then, at a time of audit, reviewers may search and analyze stored journal messages. E-mail journaling is typically done at the mail server.\n\nThe journal message contains, at a minimum, the following information: a copy of the content of the actual message, any related metadata such as time, date, and individuals involved in the communication. More information may be included, such as a physical location of the message originator/recipient(s), a computer identifier of the message originator/recipient(s), or a class/category of message. The journal message should maintain the same transport format as the actual message so that existing communication infrastructure can be utilized. For example, an e-mail journaling message will, itself, be an e-mail message containing the journaling information as either attachments or in the body of the journaling message and may be in the MIME format.\n\n\nJournaling refers to capturing information about an electronic message while it is in transit. Which messages and the kind of information that is captured should be defined by a system administrator or compliance agent. The journaled message should be encrypted and users should not have access to their own journaled message store. Archiving, on the other hand, is primarily dedicated for backing up communications or removing them from their original location to an off-site location. Archiving generally does not occur while the electronic message is in transit and users may have access to their own archived messages. The journaling system may, however, be used as a communication interface to the archival system.\n\nMicrosoft released a journaling feature in service packs for Exchange 2000 and 2003, during 2004. Microsoft's journaling feature uses real-time journaling to a journaling mailbox. Their journaling feature uses a rule-based selection to determine whether an e-mail should or should not be journaled. If any of the sender or recipients, even recipients of an expanded distribution list, have their journaling setting enabled, then the e-mail is journaled.\n\nIBM originally released a journaling feature in Lotus Domino 6, during 2002. IBM's journaling feature allows for copying every email as it is processed by the mail server to either a local database at the mail server or a dedicated remote database. Their journaling feature uses a rule-based selection to determine whether an e-mail should or should not be journaled. If properties about the e-mail match pre-defined administrator rule settings the e-mail will be journaled.\n\n"}
{"id": "7438956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7438956", "title": "French constitutional referendum, 2000", "text": "French constitutional referendum, 2000\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in France on 24 September 2000. The proposals would result in the mandate of the President being reduced from seven years to five years in line with terms in office in other European countries. It was approved by 73.2% of voters, although turnout was just 30.2%.\n\nThe aim of the \"quinquennat\" (five-year term) was to have the legislative election immediately succeed the presidential election (as in 2007, the presidential election took place in April–May 2007, while the legislative election took place in June), thus providing similar electoral results and reducing the risk of a cohabitation.\n\n"}
{"id": "33942954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33942954", "title": "Genetically modified food in Europe", "text": "Genetically modified food in Europe\n\nGenetic engineering in Europe has varying degrees of regulation.\n\nUntil the 1990s, Europe's regulation was less strict than in the United States, one turning point being cited as the export of the United States' first GM-containing soy harvest in 1996. The GM soy made up about 2% of the total harvest at the time, and Eurocommerce and European food retailers required that it be separated. In 1998, the use of MON810, a Bt expressing maize conferring resistance to the European corn borer, was approved for commercial cultivation in Europe. Shortly thereafter, the EU enacted a \"de facto\" moratorium on new approvals of GMOs pending new regulatory laws passed in 2003.\n\nThose new laws provided the European Union (EU) with possibly the most stringent GMO regulations in the world. All GMOs, along with irradiated food, are considered \"new food\" and subject to extensive, case-by-case, science based food evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). The criteria for authorization fall in four broad categories: \"safety\", \"freedom of choice\", \"labelling\" and \"traceability\". The EFSA reports to the European Commission (EC), which then drafts a proposal for granting or refusing the authorisation. This proposal is submitted to the Section on GM Food and Feed of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health; if accepted, it will be adopted by the EC or passed on to the Council of Agricultural Ministers. Once in the Council it has three months to reach a qualified majority for or against the proposal; if no majority is reached, the proposal is passed back to the EC, which will then adopt the proposal. However, even after authorization, individual EU member states can ban individual varieties under a 'safeguard clause' if there are \"justifiable reasons\" that the variety might cause harm to humans or the environment. The member state must then supply sufficient evidence that this is the case. The Commission is obliged to investigate these cases and either overturn the original registrations or request the country to withdraw its temporary restriction. The laws of the EU also required that member nations establish coexistence regulations. In many cases, national coexistence regulations include minimum distances between fields of GM crops and non-GM crops. The distances for GM maize from non-GM maize for the six largest biotechnology countries are: France – 50 meters, Britain – 110 meters for grain maize and 80 for silage maize, Netherlands – 25 meters in general and 250 for organic or GM-free fields, Sweden – 15–50 meters, Finland – data not available, and Germany – 150 meters and 300 from organic fields. Larger minimum distance requirements discriminate against adoption of GM crops by smaller farms.\n\nIn 2006, the World Trade Organization concluded that the EU moratorium, which had been in effect from 1998 to 2004, had violated international trade rules. The moratorium had not affected previously approved crops. The only crop authorised for cultivation before the moratorium was Monsanto's MON 810. The next approval for cultivation was the Amflora potato for industrial applications in 2010 which was grown in Germany, Sweden and the Czech Republic that year.\n\nThe slow pace of approval has been criticized as endangering European food safety although as of 2012, the EU has authorized the use of 48 genetically modified organisms. Most of these were for use in animal feed (it was reported in 2012 that the EU imports about 30 million tons a year of GM crops for animal consumption.), food or food additives. 26 of these were varieties of maize. In July 2012 the EU gave approval for an Irish trial cultivation of potatoes resistant to the blight that caused the Great Irish Famine.\n\nThe safeguard clause mentioned above has been applied by many member states in various circumstances, and in April 2011 there were 22 active bans in place across six member states: Austria, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Greece, and Hungary. However, on review many of these have been considered scientifically unjustified.\n\nIn 2012, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) Panel on Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) released a \"Scientific opinion addressing the safety assessment of plants developed through cisgenesis and intragenesis\" in a response to a request from the European Commission. The opinion was, that while \"the frequency of unintended changes may differ between breeding techniques and their occurrence cannot be predicted and needs to be assessed case by case,\" \"similar hazards can be associated with cisgenic and conventionally bred plants, while novel hazards can be associated with intragenic and transgenic plants.\" In other words, cisgenic approaches, which introduce genes from the same species, should be considered similar in risk to conventional breeding approaches, whilst transgenic plants can come with new hazards.\n\nIn 2014 a panel of experts set up by the UK Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council argued that \"A regulatory system based on the characteristics of a novel crop, by whatever method it has been produced, would provide a more effective and robust regulation than current EU processes , which consider new crop varieties differently depending on the method used to produce them.\" They said that new forms of \"genome editing\" allow targeting specific sites and making precise changes in the DNA of crops. In the future it would become increasingly difficult if not impossible to tell which method has been used (conventional breeding or genetic engineering) to produce a novel crop. They proposed that existing EU regulatory system should be replaced with a more logical system like that used for new medicines.\n\nIn 2015 Germany, Poland, France, Scotland and several other member states opted out of cultivating GMO crops in their territory.\n\nThe regulations concerning the import and sale of GMOs for human and animal consumption grown outside the EU involve providing freedom of choice to the farmers and consumers. All food (including processed food) or feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled. Twice GMOs unapproved by the EC have arrived in the EU and been forced to return to their port of origin. The first was in 2006 when a shipment of rice from America containing an experimental GMO variety (LLRice601) not meant for commercialisation arrived at Rotterdam. The second in 2009 when trace amounts of a GMO maize approved in the US were found in a \"non-GM\" soy flour cargo.\n\nThe coexistence has raised significant concern in many European countries and so EU law also requires that all GM food be traceable to its origin, and that all food with GM content greater than 0.9% be labelled. Due to high demand from European consumers for freedom of choice between GM and non-GM foods. EU regulations require measures to avoid mixing of foods and feed produced from GM crops and conventional or organic crops, which can be done via isolation distances or biological containment strategies. (Unlike the US, European countries require labeling of GM food.) European research programs such as Co-Extra, Transcontainer, and SIGMEA are investigating appropriate tools and rules for traceability. The OECD has introduced a \"unique identifier\" which is given to any GMO when it is approved, which must be forwarded at every stage of processing. Such measures are generally not used in North America because they are very costly and the industry admits of no safety-related reasons to employ them. The EC has issued guidelines to allow the co-existence of GM and non-GM crops through buffer zones (where no GM crops are grown). These are regulated by individual countries and vary from 15 meters in Sweden to 800 meters in Luxembourg. All food (including processed food) or feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled.\n\nIn its regulations the European Union considers genetically modified organisms only to be food and feed for all intents and practical purposes, in difference to the definition of genetically modified organisms which encompasses animals.\n\nThe EU uses the precautionary principle demanding a pre-market authorisation for any GMO to enter the market and a post-market environmental monitoring. Both the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the member states author a risk assessment. This assessment must show that the food or feed is safe for human and animal health and the environment \"under its intended conditions of use\".\n\nAs of 2010, the EU treats all genetically modified crops (GMO crops), along with irradiated food as \"new food\". They are subject to extensive, case-by-case, science-based food evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). This agency reports to the European Commission, which then drafts proposals for granting or refusing authorisation. Each proposal is submitted to the \"Section on GM Food and Feed of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health\". If accepted, it is either adopted by the EC or passed on to the Council of Agricultural Ministers. The Council has three months to reach a qualified majority for or against the proposal. If no majority is reached, the proposal is passed back to the EC, which then adopts the proposal.\n\nThe EFSA uses independent scientific research to advise the European Commission on how to regulate different foods in order to protect consumers and the environment. For GMOs, the EFSA's risk assessment includes molecular characterization, potential toxicity and potential environmental impact. Each GMO must be reassessed every 10 years. In addition, applicants who wish to cultivate or process GMOs must provide a detailed surveillance plan for after authorization. This ensures that the EFSA will know if risk to consumers or the environment heightens and that they can then act to lowed the risk or deauthorize the GMO.\n\n, 49 GMO crops, consisting of\neight GM cottons,\n28 GM maizes, \nthree GM oilseed rapes,\nseven GM soybeans,\none GM sugar beet,\none GM bacterial biomass, and \none GM yeast biomass\nhave been authorised.\n\nMember States may invoke a safeguard clause to temporarily restrict or prohibit use and/or sale of a GMO crop within their territory if they have justifiable reasons to consider that an approved GMO crop may be a risk to human health or the environment. The EC is obliged to investigate and either overturn the original registrations or ask the country to withdraw its temporary restriction. By 2012, seven countries had submitted safeguard clauses. The EC investigated and rejected those from six countries (\"...the scientific evidence currently available did not invalidate the original risk assessments for the products in question...\") and one, the UK, withdrew.\n\nThe EC Directorate-general for agriculture and rural development states that the regulations concerning the import and sale of GMOs for human and animal consumption grown outside the EU provide freedom of choice to farmers and consumers. All food (including processed food) or feed which contains greater than 0.9% of approved GMOs must be labelled. \nAs of 2010 GMOs unapproved by the EC had been found twice and returned to their port of origin: First in 2006 when a shipment of rice from the U.S. containing an experimental GMO variety (LLRice601) not meant for commercialisation arrived at Rotterdam, the second time in 2009, when trace amounts of a GMO maize approved in the US were found in a non-GM soy flour cargo. In 2012, the EU imported about 30 million tons of GM crops for animal consumption.\n\n Spain has been the largest producer of GM crops in Europe with of GM maize planted in 2013 equaling 20% of Spain's maize production.\n\nSmaller amounts were produced in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Portugal, Romania and Poland. France and Germany are the major opponents of genetically modified food in Europe, although Germany has approved Amflora a potato modified with higher levels of starch for industrial purposes. In addition to France and Germany, other European countries that placed bans on the cultivation and sale of GMOs include Austria, Hungary, Greece, and Luxembourg. Poland has also tried to institute a ban, with backlash from the European Commission. Bulgaria effectively banned cultivation of genetically modified organisms on 18 March 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Slovenia and the Netherlands wrote a joint paper requesting that individual countries should have the right to decide whether to cultivate GM crops. By the year 2010, the only GMO food crop with approval for cultivation in Europe was MON 810, a Bt expressing maize conferring resistance to the European corn borer that gained approval in 1998. \nIn March 2010 a second GMO, a potato called Amflora, was approved for cultivation for industrial applications in the EU by the European Commission and was grown in Germany, Sweden and the Czech Republic that year. Amflora was withdrawn from the EU market in 2012, and in 2013 its approval was annulled by an EU court.\nFearing that gene flow could occur between related crops, the EC issued new guidelines in 2010 regarding the co-existence of GM and non-GM crops.\n\nCo-existence is regulated by the use of buffer zones and isolation distances between the GM and non-GM crops. The guidelines are not binding and each Member State can implement its own regulations, which has resulted in buffer zones ranging from 15 metres (Sweden) to 800 metres (Luxembourg). Member States may also designate GM-free zones, effectively allowing them to ban cultivation of GM crops in their territory without invoking a safeguard clause.\n\nIn October 2015, Bulgaria announced it has opted out of growing genetically modified crops, effectively banning the cultivation of different types of GMO corn and soybeans.\n\nFrance adopted the EU laws on growing GMOs in 2007 and was fined €10 million by the European Court of Justice for the six-year delay in implementing the laws. \nIn February 2008, the French government used the safeguard clause to ban the cultivation of MON 810 after Senator Jean-François Le Grand, chairman of a committee to evaluate biotechnology, said there were \"serious doubts\" about the safety of the product. Twelve scientists and two economists on the committee accused Le Grand of misrepresenting the report and said they did not have \"serious doubts\", although questions remained concerning the impact of Bt-maize on health and the environment. The EFSA reviewed studies the French government had submitted to back up its claim, and concluded that there was no new evidence to undermine its prior safety findings and considered the decision \"scientifically unfounded\". The High Council for Biotechnology subcommittee dealing with economic, ethical and social aspects recommended an additional \"GMO-free\" label for anything containing less than 0.1% GMO which is due to come in late 2010. In 2011, the European Court of Justice and the French Conseil d'État ruled that the French farm ministry ban of MON 810 was illegal, as it failed \"to give proof of the existence of a particularly high level of risk for the health and the environment\".\n\nOn September 17, 2015 the French government announced it would effectively continue to ban GMO crops by enacting an \"opt-out\" provision, previously agreed to for the 28 EU member states in March 2015, by asking the European Commission for France to extend the GMO ban on nine additional strains of maize. The policy announcement was made simultaneously by the French farm and environment ministries.\n\nIn April 2009, German Federal Minister Ilse Aigner announced an immediate halt to cultivation and marketing of MON 810 maize under the safeguard clause. The ban was based on \"expert opinion\" that suggested there was reasonable grounds to believe that MON 810 maize presents a danger to the environment. \nThree French scientists reviewing the scientific evidence used to justify the ban concluding that it did not use a case-by-case approach, confused potential hazards with proven risks and ignored the meta-knowledge on Bt expressing maize, instead focusing on selected individual studies.\n\nIn August 2015 Germany announced to ban genetically modified crops.\n\nIn September 2015, Northern Ireland announced a ban on genetically modified crops.\n\nIn 1992, Switzerland voted in favour of the introduction of an article about assisted reproductive technologies and genetic engineering in the Swiss Federal Constitution. In 1995, Switzerland introduced regulations requiring labelling of food containing genetically modified organisms. It was one of the first countries to introduce labelling requirements for GMOs. In 2003, the Federal Assembly adopted the \"Federal Act on Non-Human Gene Technology\".\n\nA federal popular initiative introducing a moratorium on genetically modified organisms in the Swiss agriculture was introduced from 2005 to 2010. Later, the Swiss parliament extended this moratorium to 2013. Between 2007 and 2011, the Swiss Government funded thirty projects to investigate the risks and benefits of GMOs. These projects concluded that there were no clear health or environmental dangers associated with planting GMOs. However, they also concluded that there was little economic incentive for farmers to adopt GMOs in Switzerland. The Swiss parliament then extended the moratorium to 2017, and then to 2021.\n\nAs of 2016, six cantons (Bern, Fribourg, Geneva, Jura, Ticino and Vaud) have introduced laws against genetically modified organisms in agriculture. More than one hundred communes have declared themselves free of genetically modified organisms. The cantons of Switzerland perform tests to assess the presence of genetically modified organisms in foodstuffs. In 2008, 3% of the tested samples contained detectable amounts of GMOs. In 2012, 12.1% of the samples analysed contained detectable amounts of GMOs (including 2.4% of GMOs forbidden in Switzerland). Except one, all the samples tested contained less than 0.9% of GMOs; which is the threshold that impose labeling indicating the presence of GMOs in food.\n\nIn August 2015, the Scottish government announced that it would \"shortly submit a request that Scotland is excluded from any European consents for the cultivation of GM crops, including the variety of genetically modified maize already approved and six other GM crops that are awaiting authorisation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49133653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49133653", "title": "Ibn Fahd Helli", "text": "Ibn Fahd Helli\n\nIbn Fahd Helli () was an eminent Shia jurist and religious scientist in the eighth and ninth Hijrah lunar.\n\nHe lived for a while in Hilla in Iraq. Hilla was one of the first center of Shi'a scholars such as ibn Fahd. He began his education in Zaynabiyyah school. He may have also lived briefly in Karbala.\n\nHis life is coincided with a Mongol attack, but he was safe from this catastrophe since he lived during the Jalayeri sultanate . He had teachers such as Fazil Meghdad, Hasan ibn Hasan Al Deylami, Shaykh Ahmad Motavvaj Bahrani, Baha Al Ddin Nassabeh, Sayyed jamal Aaraj Hoseini, Shaykh Ahmad ibn Motavvej Bahrani.Also He taught pupils Islamic Jurisprudence (Fiqh), mysticism and traditions like Ibn Tay, ibn Asharah and Ali ibn Helal Jazaeri.\n\nHe wrote books on different aspects of Islamic sciences such as mysticism, jurisprudence, tradition and other religious spheres. Some of them are:\n\nHe died at age 84 and was buried in Karbala.\n\n"}
{"id": "3096764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096764", "title": "Jewish question", "text": "Jewish question\n\nThe \"Jewish question\", also referred to as the \"Jewish problem\", was a wide-ranging debate in 19th- and 20th-century European society pertaining to the appropriate status and treatment of Jews in society. The debate was similar to other so-called \"national questions\" and dealt with the civil, legal, national and political status of Jews as a minority within society, particularly in Europe in the 18th, 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe debate started within societies, politicians and writers in western and central Europe influenced by the Age of Enlightenment and the ideals of the French Revolution. The issues included the legal and economic Jewish disabilities (e.g. Jewish quotas and segregation), Jewish assimilation, Jewish emancipation and Jewish Enlightenment.\n\nThe expression has been used by antisemitic movements from the 1880s onwards, culminating in the Nazi phrase \"the Final Solution to the Jewish Question\". Similarly, the expression was used by proponents for and opponents of the establishment of an autonomous Jewish homeland or a sovereign Jewish state.\n\nThe term \"Jewish question\" was first used in Great Britain around 1750 when the expression \"Jewish question\" appeared during the Jew Bill of 1753 debates in England. According to Holocaust scholar Lucy Dawidowicz, the term \"Jewish Question,\" as introduced in western Europe, was a neutral expression for the negative attitude toward the apparent and persistent singularity of the Jews as a people against the background of the rising political nationalisms and new nation-states. Dawidowicz writes that \"the histories of Jewish emancipation and of European antisemitism are replete with proffered 'solutions to the Jewish question.'\"\n\nThe question was next discussed in France (\"la question juive\") after the French Revolution in 1789. It has arrived in Germany in 1843 via Bruno Bauer's treatise \"Die Judenfrage\" (\"The Jewish Question\"). He argued that Jews can achieve political emancipation only if they let go their religious consciousness as he proposed that political emancipation required a secular state. In 1898, Theodore Herzl's treatise, \"Der Judenstaat\", advocates Zionism as a \"modern solution for the Jewish question\" by creating an independent Jewish state, preferably in Palestine.\n\nAccording to Otto Dov Kulka of Hebrew University, the term became widespread in the nineteenth century when it was used in discussions about Jewish emancipation in Germany (\"Judenfrage\"). In the 19th century hundreds of tractates, pamphlets, newspaper articles and books were written on the subject, with many offering solutions including resettlement, deportation and assimilation of the Jewish population. Similarly, hundreds of pieces of literature were written opposing these solutions and have offered solutions such as re-integration and education. This debate however, could not decide whether the problem of the Jewish Question had more to do with the problems posed by the German Jews' opponents or vice versa: the problem posed by the existence of the German Jews to their opponents.\n\nFrom around 1860 the notion took on an increasingly antisemitic tendency: Jews were described under this title as a stumbling block to the identity and cohesion of the German nation and as enemies within the Germans' own country. Antisemites such as Wilhelm Marr, Karl Eugen Dühring, Theodor Fritsch, Houston Stewart Chamberlain, Paul de Lagarde and others declared it a racial problem unsolvable through integration, in order to make their demands for the \"de-jewifying\" of the press, education, culture, state and economy, plausible, along with their demands for the condemnation of inter-marriage between Jews and non-Jews. They also used this definition to oust the Jews out of their supposedly socially dominant positions.\n\nBy far the most infamous use of this expression was by the Nazis in the early- and mid- twentieth century, culminating in the implementation of their \"Final Solution to the Jewish question\" during World War II.\n\nIn his book \"The Jewish Question\", published in 1843, Bauer argued that Jews can achieve political emancipation only if they relinquish their particular religious consciousness, since political emancipation requires a secular state, which he assumes does not leave any \"space\" for social identities such as religion. According to Bauer, such religious demands are incompatible with the idea of the \"Rights of Man.\" True political emancipation, for Bauer, requires the abolition of religion.\n\nKarl Marx replied to Bauer in his 1844 essay \"On the Jewish Question\". Marx contradicted Bauer's view that the nature of the Jewish religion prevented Judaism's assimilation. Instead he focused on the specific social and economic role of the Jewish group in Europe which, according to him, was lost when capitalism, the material basis for Judaism, assimilated the European societies as a whole.\n\nMarx uses Bauer's essay as an occasion for his own analysis of liberal rights. Marx argues that Bauer is mistaken in his assumption that in a \"secular state\", religion will no longer play a prominent role in social life, and, as an example refers to the pervasiveness of religion in the United States, which, unlike Prussia, had no state religion. In Marx's analysis, the \"secular state\" is not opposed to religion, but rather actually requires it. The removal of religious or property qualifications for citizens does not mean the abolition of religion or property, but only introduces a way of regarding individuals in abstraction from them.\nOn this note Marx moves beyond the question of religious freedom to his real concern with Bauer's analysis of \"political emancipation.\" Marx concludes that while individuals can be 'spiritually' and 'politically' free in a secular state, they can still be bound to material constraints on freedom by economic inequality, an assumption that would later form the basis of his critiques of capitalism.\n\nWerner Sombart praised Jews for their capitalism and presented the seventeenth–eighteenth century court Jews as integrated and a model for integration. By the turn of the twentieth century, the debate was still widely discussed and raised to prominence by the Dreyfus Affair in France. Within the religious and political elite, some continued to favor assimilation and political engagement in Europe while others, such as Theodore Herzl, proposed the advancement of a separate Jewish state and the Zionist cause.\nBetween 1880 and 1920, millions of other Jews sought their own solution for the pogroms of eastern Europe by emigration to other places, such as the United States and western Europe.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, the term \"Jewish Question\" (in ) referred to the sense that the existence of Jews in Germany posed a problem for the state. In 1933 two Nazi theorists, Johann von Leers and Achim Gercke, both proposed that the Jewish Question could be solved by resettling Jews in Madagascar or elsewhere in Africa or South America. Both intellectuals discussed the pros and cons of supporting the German Zionists as well, but von Leers asserted that establishing a Jewish homeland in British Palestine would create humanitarian and political problems for the region. Upon achieving power in 1933, Adolf Hitler and the Nazi state began to implement increasingly severe measures aimed at segregating and ultimately removing the Jewish people from Germany and (eventually) all of Europe. The next stage was persecution of Jews and the stripping of Jews of their citizenship through the Nuremberg Laws. Later, during World War II, it became state-sponsored internment in concentration camps and finally, the systematic extermination of the Jewish people (The Holocaust), which took place as the so-called \"Final Solution to the Jewish Question\".\n\nNazi propaganda was produced to manipulate the public, most notably based on writings from people such as Eugen Fischer, Fritz Lenz and Erwin Baur in \"Foundations of Human Heredity Teaching and Racial Hygiene\". The work (\"Allowing the Destruction of Life Unworthy of Living\") by Karl Binding and Alfred Hoche and the pseudo-scholarship created by Gerhard Kittel also played a role. In occupied France, the collaborationist regime established its own Institute for studying the Jewish Questions.\n\nA dominant anti-Semitic conspiracy theory is that Jewish people have undue influence over the media, banking and politics. Based on this conspiracy theory certain groups and activists discuss the \"Jewish Question\" and propose to \"address\" it. They often refer to it as the JQ. More recently, white nationalists, alt-righters, and neo-Nazis have used the initialism JQ to refer to the Jewish question.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "931127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=931127", "title": "John Austin (legal philosopher)", "text": "John Austin (legal philosopher)\n\nJohn Austin (3 March 1790 – 1 December 1859) was a noted English legal theorist who strongly influenced British and American law with his analytical approach to jurisprudence and his theory of legal positivism. In opposing traditional \"natural law\" approaches, Austin argued against any necessary connections between law and morality. Human legal systems, he claimed, can and should be studied in an empirical, value-free way.\n\nAustin was born on 3 March 1790 at Creeting St Mary, the eldest son of a well-to-do Suffolk miller.\n\nAfter spending five years in the army during the Napoleonic Wars, Austin turned to law and spent seven unhappy years practising at the Chancery bar. In 1819, Austin married Sarah Taylor and became neighbours and close friends with Jeremy Bentham and James and John Stuart Mill. Mainly through Bentham's influence, Austin was appointed professor of jurisprudence at the newly founded University of London in 1826. Austin's lectures were not well-attended, and he resigned his university post in 1834.\n\nThereafter, aside from two stints on government commissions, Austin lived largely on his wife's earnings as a writer and translator. Plagued by ill health, depression and self-doubt, Austin wrote little after the publication of his major work, \"The Province of Jurisprudence Determined\" (1832). This work was largely ignored during Austin's lifetime. It became influential only after his death when his wife, Sarah Austin, published a second edition in 1861. A second book, \"Lectures on Jurisprudence\", was put together by Sarah from Austin's notes and published in 1863.\n\nJohn Austin died on 1 December 1859 in Weybridge. His only daughter, Lucie, later became Lady Duff-Gordon.\n\nAustin’s goal was to transform law into a true science. To do this, he believed it was necessary to purge human law of all moralistic notions and to define key legal concepts in strictly empirical terms. Law, according to Austin, is a social fact and reflects relations of power and obedience. This twofold view, that (1) law and morality are separate and (2) that all human-made (\"positive\") laws can be traced back to human lawmakers, is known as legal positivism. Drawing heavily on the thought of Jeremy Bentham, Austin was the first legal thinker to work out a fully developed positivistic theory of law.\n\nAustin argues that laws are rules, which he defines as a type of command. More precisely, laws are general commands issued by a sovereign to members of an independent political society, and backed up by credible threats of punishment or other adverse consequences (\"sanctions\") in the event of non-compliance. The sovereign in any legal system is that person, or group of persons, habitually obeyed by the bulk of the population, which does not habitually obey anyone else. A command is a declared wish that something should be done, issued by a superior, and accompanied by threats in the event of non-compliance. Such commands give rise to legal duties to obey. Note that all the key concepts in this account (law, sovereign, command, sanction, duty) are defined in terms of empirically verifiable social facts. No moral judgment, according to Austin, is ever necessary to determine what the law is — though of course morality must be consulted in determining what the law should be. As a utilitarian, Austin believed that laws should promote the greatest happiness of society.\n\nThough Austin's brand of legal positivism was greatly influential in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, it is widely seen as overly simplistic today. Critics such as H. L. A. Hart have charged that Austin's account fails to recognize that:\n(1) In many modern societies, lawmaking power is dispersed and it is very difficult to identify a \"sovereign\" in Austin’s sense.\n(2) Most legal systems include rules that don’t impose sanctions, but empower officials or citizens to do certain things (e.g., to make wills), or specify ways that legal rules may be identified or changed.\n(3) Those threats do not give rise to obligations. If they did, there would be no essential difference between a gunman's threat (\"Your money or your life\") and an ordinary piece of legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49924667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49924667", "title": "Journal of Forensic and Legal Medicine", "text": "Journal of Forensic and Legal Medicine\n\nThe Journal of Forensic and Legal Medicine is a peer-reviewed medical journal covering forensic and legal medicine. It was established in 1972 as the Police Surgeon, obtaining its current name in 2007. It is published by Elsevier on behalf of the Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine, of which it is the official journal. The editor-in-chief is Jason Payne-James. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.870.\n"}
{"id": "27666366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27666366", "title": "Judge Advocate General Branch (Pakistan)", "text": "Judge Advocate General Branch (Pakistan)\n\nThe Judge Advocate General Branch of the Pakistan Armed Forces is composed of Pakistan's Military senior officers, lawyers and judges who provide legal services to the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marines at all levels of command. JAG branch comes directly under the Adjudant-General Branch of the army. The Judge Advocate General's Legal Service includes judge advocates, warrant officers, paralegal noncommissioned officers and junior enlisted personnel, and civilian employees. In Pakistan, the Judge Advocate General can have the rank of Lieutenant-General, Major or Brigadier-General. The JAG is currently led by the combined Pakistan Armed Forces's senior-rank officers that includes the Vice Admirals of the Navy, Air Marshals of the Air Force, and the Lieutenant-Generals of the Army whose names are kept highly classified.\n\nThe JAG officers provide legal help to the military in all aspects, in particular advising the presiding officers of courts-martial on military law. According to the military justice law of Pakistan Armed Forces, the JAG's ruled decision cannot be challenged in civilian courts nor the civilian court can interfere in JAG' court hearing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38001071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38001071", "title": "Juries Act 1974", "text": "Juries Act 1974\n\nThe Juries Act 1974 (c. 23) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. According to its long title, the purpose of the Act is \"to consolidate certain enactments relating to juries, jurors and jury service with corrections and improvements made under the Consolidation of Enactments (Procedure) Act 1949.\" Among others, the Act states who is eligible for jury service in the UK, who is disqualified, and whom may be excused.\n\nUnder the provisions of the Act, any individual is qualified to serve as a juror or be called upon for jury duty in the Crown Court, High Court or county courts if:\n\nThe following persons are ineligible from jury service:\n\nThe following persons are disqualified from jury service:\n\nThe following persons may be excused from jury service:\n\nThe Act also states that personation of a juror may result in the trial in which the juror sat being voided.\n\n"}
{"id": "23618001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23618001", "title": "Lawsuits against the Devil", "text": "Lawsuits against the Devil\n\nLawsuits against the devil (or Satan) have occurred in reality and in fiction.\n\n\"United States ex rel. Gerald Mayo v. Satan and His Staff\" was a 1971 case filed before the United States district court for the Western District of Pennsylvania in which Gerald Mayo alleged that \"Satan has on numerous occasions caused plaintiff misery and unwarranted threats, against the will of plaintiff, that Satan has placed deliberate obstacles in his path and has caused plaintiff's downfall\" and had therefore \"deprived him of his constitutional rights\". This is prohibited under several sections of the United States Code. Mayo filed \"in forma pauperis\"—that is, he asserted that he would not be able to afford the costs associated with his lawsuit and that they therefore should be waived. The Court refused the request to proceed \"in forma pauperis\" because the plaintiff had not included instructions for how the U.S. Marshal could serve process on Satan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1632880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632880", "title": "Legal guardian", "text": "Legal guardian\n\nA legal guardian is a person who has the legal authority (and the corresponding duty) to care for the personal and property interests of another person, called a ward. Guardians are typically used in three situations: guardianship for an incapacitated senior (due to old age or infirmity), guardianship for a minor, and guardianship for developmentally disabled adults.\n\nA guardianship for an incapacitated senior will typically arise where someone determines that a senior has become unable to care for their own person and/or property. In some cases, there may be a belief that the senior is being financially exploited or about to be exploited. In other cases, the person may be unable to care for him or herself and is not able to properly engage in the activities of daily living without assistance. There will typically be a precipitating incident that causes a professional, family member, health care worker or clergyman to initiate guardianship proceedings.\n\nIn most states, the process will start with a determination whether the alleged incapacitated person is actually incapacitated. There will often be an evidentiary hearing. Only if a finding of incapacity is made will the next step take place: whether a guardian is necessary and to what extent (e.g. a guardian may be needed for the person's finances but not for the person) and, if so, who the guardian should be. The determination of whether a guardianship is necessary may consider a number of factors, including whether there is a lesser restrictive alternative, such as the use of an already existing power of attorney and health care proxy. In some cases, a guardianship dispute can become quite contentious, and can result in litigation between a parent and adult children or between different siblings against each other in what is essentially a pre-probate dispute over a parent's wealth. Stopping the guardianship is often pursued in such cases as well.\n\nA report published in 2010 by the U.S. Government Accountability Office looked at 20 selected closed cases in which guardians stole or otherwise improperly obtained assets from clients. In 6 of these 20 cases, the courts failed to adequately screen guardians ahead of time and appointed individuals with criminal convictions or significant financial problems, and in 12 of 20 cases, the courts failed to oversee guardians once they had been appointed. \n\nIn October 2017, \"The New Yorker\" published an article looking at the situation in Nevada in which professional guardians sometimes have a number of clients, and argued toward the conclusion that in a number of cases the courts did not properly oversee these arrangements. In 2018 the investigative documentary \"The Guardians\" was published, alleging \"legal kidnapping of elderly people\" in Nevada by private guardianship businesses with no familiar relations, seeking to economically profit from seniors' savings.\n\nA minor child's parent is the child's natural guardian.\n\nMost countries and states have laws that provide that the parents of a minor child are the legal guardians of that child, and that the parents may designate who shall become the child's legal guardian in the event of death, typically subject to the approval of the court. Where a minor child's parents are disabled or deceased, it may be necessary for a court to appoint a guardian.\n\nLegal guardians may be appointed in guardianship cases for adults (see also conservatorship). For example, parents may start a guardianship action to become the guardians of a developmentally-disabled child when the child reaches the age of majority.\n\nCourts generally have the power to appoint a guardian for an individual in need of special protection. A guardian with responsibility for both the personal well-being and the financial interests of the ward is a \"general guardian\". A person may also be appointed as a \"special guardian\", having limited powers over the interests of the ward. A special guardian may, for example, be given the legal right to determine the disposition of the ward's property without being given any authority over the ward's person.\nDepending on the jurisdiction, a legal guardian may be called a \"conservator\", \"custodian\", or curator. Many jurisdictions and the Uniform Probate Code distinguish between a \"guardian\" or \"guardian of the person\" who is an individual with authority over and fiduciary responsibilities for the physical person of the ward, and a \"conservator\" or \"guardian of the property\" of a ward who has authority over and fiduciary responsibilities for significant property (often an inheritance or personal injury settlement) belonging to the ward. Some jurisdictions provide for public guardianship programs serving incapacitated adults or children.\n\nA guardian is a fiduciary and is held to a very high standard of care in exercising his or her powers. If the ward owns substantial property the guardian may be required to give a surety bond to protect the ward in the event that dishonesty or incompetence on his or her part causes financial loss to the ward.\n\nGuardians \"ad litem\" (GALs) are not the same as \"legal guardians\" and are often appointed in under-age-children cases, many times to represent the interests of the minor children. Guardians \"ad litem\" may be called, in some U.S. states, Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA). In New York State, they are known as Attorneys for the Child (AFCs). They are the voice of the child and may represent the child in court, with many judges adhering to any recommendation given by a GAL. GALs may assist where a child is removed from a hostile environment and custody given to the relevant state or county family services agency, and in those cases assists in the protection of the minor child.\n\nQualifications vary by state, ranging from no experience or qualification, volunteers to social workers to attorneys to others. The GAL's only job is to represent the minor children's best interest and advise the court. A guardian \"ad litem\" is an officer of the court, does not represent the parties in the suit, and often enjoys quasi-judicial immunity from any action from the parties involved in a particular case. Training, qualifications and supervision vary from state-to-state, which means that their quality is similarly variable. In, for instance, North Carolina, an applicant (volunteer) must go through a background check and complete 30 hours of training.\n\nAlthough a guardian \"ad litem\" working through a CASA program volunteers their services, some guardians \"ad litem\" are paid for their services. They must submit detailed time and expense reports to the court for approval. Their fees are taxed as costs in the case. Courts may order all parties to share in the cost, or the court may order a particular party to pay the fees.\n\nGuardians \"ad litem\" are also appointed in cases where there has been an allegation of child abuse, child neglect, PINS, juvenile delinquency, or dependency. In these situations, the guardian \"ad litem\" is charged to represent the best interests of the minor child, which can differ from the position of the state or government agency as well as the interest of the parent or guardian. These guardians \"ad litem\" vary by jurisdiction and can be volunteer advocates or attorneys. For example, in North Carolina, trained GAL volunteers are paired with attorney advocates to advocate for the best interest of abused and neglected children. The program defines a child's best interest as a safe, permanent home.\n\nGuardians \"ad litem\" can be appointed by the court to represent the interests of mentally ill or disabled persons. For example, the Code of Virginia requires that the court appoint a \"discreet and competent attorney-at-law\" or \"some other discreet and proper person\" to serve as guardian \"ad litem\" to protect the interests of a person under a disability.\n\nGuardians \"ad litem\" are sometimes appointed in probate matters to represent the interests of unknown or unlocated heirs to an estate.\n\nWhen a settlement is reached in personal injury or medical malpractice case involving claims brought on behalf of a minor or incapacitated plaintiff, courts normally appoint a guardian \"ad litem\" to review the terms of the settlement and ensure it is fair and in the best interests of the claimant. The settlement guardian \"ad litem\" thoroughly investigates the case, to determine whether the settlement amount is fair and reasonable.\n\nGuardians \"ad litem\" are employed by Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service (CAFCASS), a non-departmental public body, to represent the interests of children in cases where the child's wishes differ from those of either parent, known as a Section 9.5 case. The posts are filled by senior social workers with experience in family law proceedings.\n\nIn 2006, a legal status of \"special guardianship\" was introduced (using powers delegated by the Adoption and Children Act 2002) to allow for a child to be cared for by a person with rights similar to a traditional legal guardian, but without absolute legal separation from the child's birth parents. These are not to be confused with court-appointed special guardians in other jurisdictions.\n\nThe German guardianship law with regard to adults was completely changed in 1990. Guardianship (\"Vormundschaft\") of an adult was renamed 'curatorship' (\"Betreuung\"), although it remains \"Vormundschaft\" for minors. When a person of full age who, as a result of mental disease or physical, mental or psychological handicap is incapable of managing his own affairs, a guardian (Betreuer) can be appointed (section 1896, German Civil Code). An adult guardian is responsible for personal and estate matters, as well as for medical treatment. However, the ward has not normally full capacity with all human rights such as those to marry, vote or make a will. The ward's legal capacity can be lost as a result of a court judgment or order (section 1903, German Civ. C.; \"Einwilligungsvorbehalt\"). Every guardian has to report annually to the guardianship court (\"Betreuungsgericht\"). Professional guardians (Berufsbetreuer) normally hold university degrees in law or social work.\n\nThe court-appointed guardian system in the Republic of Ireland was brought into law on the proposal of the noted gay activist and member of Seanad Éireann (the Irish Senate), David Norris. The Children Acts Advisory Board which was set up to advise the ministers of the government on policy development under the Child Care Act 1991 was then abolished in September 2011. Judges are responsible for appointing child guardians and can choose guardians from Barnardo's a children's charitable service or from among the self-employed guardians, who are mostly former social workers who have gone into private business since the legislation.\n\nAll women in Saudi Arabia are required to have a male guardian (Wali) to give permission for various government and economic transactions, as well as some personal life and health decisions.\n\nThe Swedish parental law (\"Föräldrabalken\") regulates legal guardianship for both children and disabled adults. Legal guardianship for unaccompanied minors is regulated by a law of its own. Except for normal partenhood, the guardianship is assigned by the district court and supervised by the Överförmyndare, a municipal authority that is mandatory in every Swedish municipality. What is included in the field of guardianship is decided by the district court. The responsibility for health care and nursing is never included in the guardianship for adults, but is always so for minors. The guardianship for adults can take two legal forms, \"god man\" or \"förvaltare\". The main difference between these two is that a \"förvaltare\" has the sole permission to take legal actions within the field of the guardinship. A guardianship can have different legal forms for different parts of the guardianship. Such things as basic human rights is never denied the ward by this law, but some of them can be denied by other laws. A \"god man\" is normally assigned with the approval of the ward. But if the physical conditions of the ward does not permit him to give such approval, a god man can be assigned anyhow. Everything a god man does for his ward have to be approved by him, or can be assumed to be approved by him. For more complex situations, like taking loans or selling of a house, he or she needs approval from the local authorities. Once a year a legally assigned guardian have to send his accounting to the Överförmyndare for review. \n\nSince the year 2017, the ward can, while she still have her mental abilities, write a special future letter of attorney (\"Framtidsfullmakt\") which later can be used when she loses her abilities. How such a letter should be written is described in detail in the paternal law, and normally follows the principles of a will. This law was created since it in Sweden is unclear if a normal letter of attorney is valid after the ward has lost her abilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21562333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21562333", "title": "Marquette Law Review", "text": "Marquette Law Review\n\nThe Marquette Law Review is a quarterly law review edited by students at Marquette University Law School. The review is ranked 56th among general US student-edited journals for citations by courts. Articles, essays, and student-written notes and comments from the review are accessible in PDF format on its web site, as well as online through LexisNexis, Westlaw, and HeinOnline.\n\nThe review was established in 1916 as a way for the law school to \"make known its ideals and communicate its spirit.\" It is the eighth-oldest law review in the nation. Since its founding, the review has been dedicated to \"the publication of not only theoretical articles of the law, but articles of real practical aid to the practitioner.\" It has placed particular emphasis on legal issues in Wisconsin, which led former Wisconsin Chief Justice George R. Currie to \"express on behalf of the members of our court appreciation to a Law Review from which we have so greatly benefited in performing our judicial labors.\"\n\nThe review is produced by a staff of 50 student editors and members. Membership invitations are extended to students in the top ten percent of the 1L class. Alternatively, students may join the review by selection in a write-on competition held each summer. The editor-in-chief of Volume 100 is Sara C. McNamara.\n\n"}
{"id": "57836166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57836166", "title": "Ministry of Justice, Security and Integration (Aruba)", "text": "Ministry of Justice, Security and Integration (Aruba)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Security and Integration of Aruba is responsible for \"law enforcement, public order and security, border control, immigration and integration policy, fire brigade, legislation of all ministries, advice on administrative and legal matters of all ministries, representation of the Land in legal proceedings, games of chance and orthopedagogical treatment of persons.\" Per an ordinance passed in 2002, the ministry is organized as follows: \n\n\nThe Attorney General of Aruba serves as the legal adviser to the Minister of Justice, Security and Integration. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23280815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23280815", "title": "Outline of evidence law in the United States", "text": "Outline of evidence law in the United States\n\nThe following outline of evidence law in the United States sets forth the areas of contention that generally arise in the presentation of evidence in trial proceedings.\n\n\n\n\n\nPrivilege\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25845649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25845649", "title": "Peter B. Rutledge", "text": "Peter B. Rutledge\n\nPeter B. \"Bo\" Rutledge is the Dean and the Herman E. Talmadge Chair of Law at the University of Georgia School of Law in Athens, Georgia. An American attorney, academic and a specialist in international business transactions, international dispute resolution, litigation, arbitration, and the U.S. Supreme Court, he served as a law clerk for Associate U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas in 1998.\n\nRutledge received his undergraduate degree, \"magna cum laude,\" from Harvard University and an M.Litt. in Applied Ethics from the University of Aberdeen (Scotland). He earned his J.D. degree with \"high honors\" from the University of Chicago School of Law, where he served as Executive Editor of the University of Chicago Law Review and was inducted into the Order of the Coif. He clerked for renowned feeder judge Court of Appeals Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III in 1997. After clerking with Supreme Court Justice Thomas, Rutledge practiced law as an associate attorney at Freshfields and WilmerHale. In 2008, he argued before the Supreme Court in \"Irrizary v. United States\". He also joined the John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign as a judicial advisory committee member.\n\nIn 2003, Rutledge accepted a teaching position as an associate professor of law at the Columbus School of Law at The Catholic University of America, and was chosen as Professor of the Year for four consecutive years. In 2008, he accepted a position as a tenured associate professor of law at the University of Georgia School of Law. He served as the law school's Associate Dean for Faculty Development from 2013-2014, and became its Dean on January 1, 2015.\nRutledge teaches Civil Procedure, International Business Transactions and International Litigation and Arbitration. He has lectured at universities such as Oxford University, Cambridge University as well as Fulbright Professor at the Institut für Zivilverfahrensrecht. Besides his teaching and writing, Rutledge is sought for legal advice and expertise on matters such as litigation, arbitration, the U.S. Supreme Court and international dispute resolution including appearing as an expert witness in both litigation and arbitration, and multiple times testifying before the U.S. Congress on pending legislation.\n\nBorn, Gary and Peter B. Rutledge. (2006). \"International Civil Litigation in United States Courts\". Aspen Publishers. \n\nPeter B. Rutledge. '(2012). \"Arbitration and the Constitution\". Cambridge University Press. \n\nAdditionally, Rutledge has been published by the Oxford University Press, the Yale University Press and the Cambridge University Press, and has had articles appear in several journals and law reviews such as University of Chicago Law Review, Vanderbilt Law Review and Journal of International Arbitration.\n\n"}
{"id": "35846500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35846500", "title": "Pirate Pay", "text": "Pirate Pay\n\nPirate Pay is a software toolset used in the copy protection and content management of torrents, for authors and publishers. Pirate Pay operates on the Japanese, Russian and Indian markets. Eighty-five percent of Pirate Pay clients come from outside Russia. Pirate Pay technology blocks approximately 5 million illegal downloads per month, processing about 1500 torrent-seeds. According to \"Dasreda\", this translates into around $8 million of savings for copyright holders. Pirate Pay is widely used around the world.\n\nPirate Pay was first presented at a second start-up tour in the city of Perm in April 2010-2011. The founders were brothers Andrei and Alexei Klimenko, along with their friend Dmitry Shuvaev, established the Limited Liability Company called \"Internet Content.\" The initial investment of $34,000 was furnished by the brothers, who retain ownership of the firm.\n\nPirate Pay participated in three competitions:\n\n\n\n\n\nPirate Pay works with info-hashes of content in worldwide Peer-to-peer network. It does not remove links and deals without interaction with torrent sites, link aggregators and search engines. Protection of content from illegal distribution can be started with only the title. Thousands of code strings operate without human intervention to detect the required title name in file sharing swarms. It is directly placed on protection and executes all necessary actions to prevent content downloading by leeches and uploading by seeders. Pirate Pay operates with the technology of first uploader search in the swarm, finding the first infringer for offline legal activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "14681002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14681002", "title": "Primate experiments at Columbia University", "text": "Primate experiments at Columbia University\n\nPrimate experiments at Columbia University came to public attention in October 2003, when CNN reported that a university veterinarian had approached its Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee about experiments being carried out there on baboons.\n\nThe veterinarian complained about experiments being conducted by an assistant professor of neurology and neurosurgery, E. Sander Connolly, who was causing strokes in baboons by carefully removing their left eyeballs and using the empty eye sockets to reach a critical blood vessel to their brains, known as the internal carotid artery. A clamp temporarily was placed on this blood vessel until the stroke was induced, after which Connolly would test a potential neuroprotective drug. Connolly developed this methodology to make more consistent stroke infarcts in primates, which would improve the detection of differences in stroke treatment groups, and \"provide important information not obtainable in rodent models.\". Of note, a more extensive version of this operation, known as an orbitozygomatic osteotomy, is also performed in humans for treatment of certain brain tumors and vascular malformations. It does not result in blindness or permanent removal of the eye. It is done because it is deemed safer way to access the bottom portions of the brain rather than going through the brain.\n\nIn a letter to the National Institutes of Health, PETA described one experiment: \"On September 19, 2001, baboon B777's left eye was removed, and a stroke was induced. The next morning, it was noted that the animal could not sit up, that he was leaning over, and that he could not eat. That evening, the baboon was still slouched over and was offered food but couldn't chew. On September 21, 2001, the record shows that the baboon was 'awake, but no movement, can't eat (chew), vomited in the a.m.' With no further notation about consulting with a veterinarian, the record reads, 'At 1:30 p.m. the animal died in the cage.'\" \nIn a letter to PETA, neurologist Robert S. Hoffman stated that he regards such experiments to be a \"blind alley,\" and that the baboons are \"kept alive for either three or ten days after experiencing a major stroke and in a condition of profound disability. This is obviously as terrifying for animals as it is for humans unless one believes that animals are incapable of terror or other emotional distress\"  . According to the published stroke model by Connolly, animals are given a stroke and maintained on anesthesia and analgesia for 12–18 hours. Then, when anesthesia is removed, animals that are not self-caring are euthanized. All other animals may be kept alive for three days, in accordance with established ethical guidelines. Then, if animals are not self-caring, they are euthanized. Animals that are self-caring at 72 hours may be kept alive for up to 10 days.\n\nA USDA investigation of the Columbia baboons found \"no indication that the experiments...violated federal guidelines.\" Further, the Dean of Research at Columbia's School of Medicine noted that Connolly stopped the experiments because of threats from animal rights activists, despite the fact that Connolly \"remained convinced that his experiments were humane and potentially valuable.\"\n"}
{"id": "28221739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28221739", "title": "Provisional Electoral Council", "text": "Provisional Electoral Council\n\nThe Provisional Electoral Council (French: \"Conseil Electoral Provisoire\", , CEP; Haitian Creole: \"Konsey Elektoral Pwovizwa\") is the electoral commission of Haiti. The body is the sole agency responsible for presidential elections and parliamentary elections. As of 2015, CEP remains Haiti's main and only legal election agency. \n\nAs the sole legal electoral body in Haiti, CEP's responsibilities includes the following: \n\n\nMore than 30 presidential candidates reproached CEP for its obscure scrutiny policies and censured CEP for its lack of transparency. According to Haitian Sentinel, CEP rejected transparency request by some presidential candidates including Jude Célestin, runoff candidate for the 2015 election. \n\n"}
{"id": "24781158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24781158", "title": "Public Counsel", "text": "Public Counsel\n\nPublic Counsel is the largest \"pro bono\" public interest law firm in the world. Founded in 1970 by the Beverly Hills Bar Association, Public Counsel delivers free legal and social services to abused and abandoned children, homeless families and veterans, senior citizens, victims of consumer fraud, and nonprofit organizations serving low-income communities. Initially called the Beverly Hills Bar Association Law Foundation, it was the first bar-sponsored public interest law firm in the country.\n\nThe substantive areas in which Public Counsel works includes: Veterans Advocacy, Appellate Law & Federal Pro Se, Community Development, Early Care and Education Law, Homelessness Prevention Law, Children's Rights (including Adoptions and Guardianships), Consumer Law (including Bankruptcy), Immigrants' Rights, and Opportunity Under Law.\n\nIn 1977, the Los Angeles County Bar Association joined the Beverly Hills Bar Association as a sponsor of the Law Foundation. This joint endeavor resulted not only in a name change to Public Counsel, but also in an expansion of the organization's purposes and goals. Direct involvement in public interest litigation was coupled with a mandate to mobilize and coordinate pro bono efforts of the Los Angeles legal community to serve the poor.\n\nIt is the public interest law office of the Los Angeles County and Beverly Hills Bar Associations and the Southern California affiliate of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. Its full-time staff of 110 (including 62 staff attorneys in four offices), along with over 5,000 volunteer lawyers, law students, and legal professionals, assists over 30,000 children, youth, families, and community organizations every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "40679416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40679416", "title": "Puerto Rico Science, Technology and Research Trust", "text": "Puerto Rico Science, Technology and Research Trust\n\nThe Puerto Rico Science, Technology and Research Trust is a private non-profit organization created in 2004 to encourage and promote innovation, transfer and commercialization of technology and creation of jobs in the technology sector, based in San Juan, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Trust is responsible for Puerto Rico’s public policy for science, technology, research and development. \n"}
{"id": "14673104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14673104", "title": "Pure economic loss in English law", "text": "Pure economic loss in English law\n\nRecovery for pure economic loss in English law, arising from negligence, has traditionally been limited. Notably, recovery for losses that are \"purely economic\" arise under the Fatal Accidents Act 1976; and for negligent misstatements, as stated in \"Hedley Byrne v. Heller\". Economic loss generally refers to financial detriment that can be seen on a balance sheet but not physically. Economic loss is then divided into \"consequential economic loss\" - that which arises directly from some physical damage or injury (e.g. loss of earnings from having your arm cut off) and \"pure economic loss\", which is everything else.\n\nThe fear behind allowing claims for \"pure economic loss\" is that potentially unlimited claims could flood in. The risks may be unknowable, and parties would find it impossible to insure. The U.S. judge Benjamin N. Cardozo famously described it as, \"liability in an indeterminate amount, for an indeterminate time, to an indeterminate class\".\n\nExamples of pure economic loss include:\n\nThe latter case is exemplified by the case of \"Spartan Steel and Alloys Ltd v. Martin & Co. Ltd\". Similar losses are also restricted in German law though not in French law.\n\nThe Complex structure theory is an argument which has been put forward in pure economic loss cases which suggests that a large chattel may be considered to consist of several parts and so damage to other \"property\" for the purpose of applying Donoghue v Stevenson principles. This theory as a normative doctrine has been rejected by Lord Bridge in Murphy v Brentwood.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "16687679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16687679", "title": "Quasi-legislative capacity", "text": "Quasi-legislative capacity\n\nA quasi-legislative capacity is that in which a public administrative agency or body acts when it makes rules and regulations. When an administrative agency exercises its rule-making authority, it is said to act in a quasi-legislative manner. Administrative agencies acquire this authority to make rules and regulations that affect legal rights through statutes. This authority is an exception to the general principle that laws affecting rights should be passed only by elected lawmakers.\n\nAdministrative agency rules are made only with the permission of elected lawmakers, and elected lawmakers may strike down an administrative rule or even eliminate an agency. In this sense quasi-legislative activity occurs at the discretion of elected officials. Nevertheless, administrative agencies create and enforce many legal rules on their own, often without the advice of lawmakers, and the rules have the force of law. This means they have a binding effect on the general public.\n\nExamples of quasi-legislative actions abound. Dozens of administrative agencies exist on the federal level, and dozens more exist on the state and local levels, and most of them have the authority to make rules that affect substantive rights. Agencies with authority over environmental matters may pass rules that restrict the rights of property owners to alter or build on their land; departments of revenue may pass rules that affect how much tax a person pays; and local housing agencies may set and enforce standards on health and safety in housing. These are just a few of the myriad rules passed by administrative agencies.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly has been described as a quasi-legislative body \n\nExcept where prohibited by statute or judicial precedent, quasi-legislative activity may be challenged in a court of law. Generally, a person challenging quasi-legislative activity must wait until the rule-making process is complete and the rule or regulation is set before challenging it. Moreover, a challenge to an agency's rule or regulation usually must be made first to the agency itself. If no satisfaction is received from the agency, the complainant can then challenge the rule or regulation in a court of law.\n\nAnother distinctive feature of quasi-legislative activity is the provision of notice and a hearing. When an administrative agency intends to pass or change a rule that affects substantive legal rights, it usually must provide notice of this intent and hold a public hearing. This gives members of the public a voice in the quasi-legislative activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1486096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1486096", "title": "Regulatory affairs", "text": "Regulatory affairs\n\nRegulatory affairs (RA), also called government affairs, is a profession within regulated industries, such as pharmaceuticals, medical devices, agrochemicals (plant protection products and fertilizers), energy, banking, telecom etc. Regulatory affairs also has a very specific meaning within the healthcare industries (pharmaceuticals, medical devices, biologics and functional foods).\n\nRegulatory affairs (medical affairs) professionals (aka regulatory professionals) usually have responsibility for the following general areas:\n\n\nThe regulatory function in healthcare industries is vital in making safe and effective healthcare products available worldwide. Individuals who ensure regulatory compliance and prepare submissions, as well as those whose main job function is clinical affairs or quality assurance are all considered regulatory professionals.\n\nRegulatory professionals are employed in industry, government and academia and are involved with a wide range of products, including:\n\nThe regulatory professional's roles and responsibilities often begin in the research and development phases, moving into clinical trials and extending through premarket approvals, manufacturing, labeling and advertising and postmarket surveillance.\n\nRegulatory professionals come from diverse backgrounds. Most regulatory professionals have earned a bachelor's degree, and more than half have an advanced degree, most often in a scientific or technical field. In addition, regulatory professionals usually have experience in other careers before transitioning into regulatory affairs.\n\nAlthough there are some university degree and graduate certificate programs in regulatory affairs and related areas, experience is a key asset for regulatory professionals. Valuable skills include project management and organization, negotiation and communication, and the ability to learn from the experience of others, both inside and outside the organization.\n\nContinuing education and professional development are critical to the regulatory professional. Regulatory professionals must keep up to date with regulatory policies and procedures for one or more countries, as well as maintain an understanding of the scientific and technical background of healthcare products. Global aspects of regulatory affairs are taken up by organisations such as the Drug Information Association (DIA) and the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH).\n\nThe healthcare industries were the first to be significantly regulated in the modern era. Much of this regulation has stemmed from avoiding the repetition of disasters, and has tended to be led by the USA due to size of the market and its technological lead:\n\nIn the USA, this regulation is largely written directly into law and codified in Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations\n\nStarting in 1980 the European Union started to harmonize the regulation of healthcare products in the member states. The concept of regulating medicines was well established in most member countries along similar lines to the US model, but many countries did not have any significant medical device regulation. Concurrently the EU had been developing the concept of New Approach Directives where only broad concepts were written into the law and the bulk of the technological detail delegated to compliance with recognized standards (which are more readily update-able).\n\nThe Europeans took the radical approach of applying the New Approach Directive to Medical Devices and by doing so made the first significant conceptual advance in healthcare regulation for nearly 100 years.\n\nThe European Model for medical device has largely been adopted by the Global Harmonization Task Force as the international template.\n\nMany in the Regulatory Affairs Profession believe the New Approach to regulation will eventually be adopted for all healthcare products as it represents the best model for delivering new healthcare advances to market in a reasonable time with acceptable safety.\n\nRegulatory Affairs departments are growing within companies. Due to the changing resources necessary to fulfill the regulatory requirements, some companies also choose to outsource or outtask regulatory affairs to external service providers.\nRegulatory Affairs department is constantly evolving and growing and is the one which is least impacted during the Acquisition and Merger, and also during recession. Global harmonization in standards has led to consistent approach in regulatory submissions and hence its review.\n\nThe (healthcare) regulatory affairs profession is still an emergent profession but has four major international professional membership organizations:\n\nwhich offer education and training, professional development, competence certification and codes of ethics.\n\nThe regulatory professional typically has a background relevant o the business in which they work, i.e., science, medicine, or engineering.\n"}
{"id": "32742266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32742266", "title": "Reloaded (warez)", "text": "Reloaded (warez)\n\nReloaded (stylised as RELOADED and RLD) is a warez group founded in June 2004 from the ex-members of DEViANCE. They released and cracked Spore 4 days before its release date and a beta version of The Sims 3 15 days before its release date. On February 29, 2008, Reloaded released a cracked version of Assassin's Creed, a month before its release on March 28. However, this release was later nuked for not being the final retail version as well as having crashing issues. The retail version was released by them more than a month later.\n\nOn May 26, 2006, Reloaded released the StarForce protected game . This cracked release became available 424 days after its official release date.\n\nOn February 27, 2010, Reloaded released three days before release date, but players reported problems with the game controls.\n\nMany keygens made by Reloaded generate keys ending in RLD.\n\nReloaded decided to release an old internal tool to the public when the Macrovision turned into Rovi Corporation and discontinued the development of SafeDisc and SafeCast DRMs. It can be used to bypass checks like CD/DVD validation, trial, online-activation (for beta games), execution-count and of silent CD/DVD checks.\n\nUbisoft used a cracked exe from Reloaded for the PC game after a new patch broke legally downloaded versions of the game.\n\nOn March 5, 2012, Reloaded released a cracked version of Mass Effect 3 the day before its official release. An incomplete uncracked version was already available on February 14.\nOn October 29, 2013, RELOADED released a cracked Version of Battlefield 4 on the day of its release.\nOn May 26, 2014, RELOADED released a cracked version of Ubisoft's much-anticipated open-world hacking game, Watch Dogs, the day before its official release on May 27. The group released a cracked version of Far Cry 4 days before its release date that was on 18 November 2014 because they acquired the game on 11 November due to a leak by the German Amazon.com.\n"}
{"id": "1220822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220822", "title": "Smith v. Board of School Commissioners of Mobile County", "text": "Smith v. Board of School Commissioners of Mobile County\n\nSmith v. Board of School Commissioners of Mobile County, 827 F.2d 684 (11th Cir. 1987), was a lawsuit in which the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit held that the Mobile County Public School System could use textbooks which purportedly promoted \"secular humanism\", characterized by the complainants as a religion.\n\nParents and other citizens brought a lawsuit against the school board, alleging that the school system was teaching the tenets of secular humanism, an anti-theistic religion. The complainants asked that forty-four different elementary through high school level textbooks be removed from the curriculum. After an initial ruling in a federal district court in favor of the plaintiffs, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled that as long as the school was motivated by a secular purpose, it didn't matter whether the curriculum and texts shared ideas held by one or more religious groups. The Court found that the texts in question promoted important secular values (tolerance, self-respect, logical decision making) and thus the use of the textbooks neither unconstitutionally advanced a nontheistic religion nor inhibited theistic religions.\n\nThis case is occasionally and incorrectly cited as proving that 'secular humanism' is a religion. The text below shows the Circuit Court, in overturning the District Court decision, made no such finding. They both set aside the question as moot and offered that even if it were (and they weren't saying it is), the teaching of science is not invalidated purely because of its association with secular humanism. Excerpt below from the Circuit Court decision (cited earlier):\n\nThe textbooks in the case were divided by the plaintiffs into three categories: home economics books, history books and social studies books. These were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35545983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35545983", "title": "Stewart Organization, Inc. v. Ricoh Corp.", "text": "Stewart Organization, Inc. v. Ricoh Corp.\n\nStewart Organization, Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487 U.S. 22 (1988), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court further refined the test for determining whether federal courts sitting in diversity must apply state law as opposed to federal law under the \"Erie\" doctrine. The question in Stewart was whether the federal venue transfer statute, 28 U.S.C. § 1404(a), occupied the field or whether Alabama law's unfavorable stance towards forum-selection clauses should instead be applied. The Court held that the federal statute governed the District Court's decision whether to give effect to the forum-selection clause.\n\nStewart Organization, Inc. brought a suit against Ricoh Corp. arising out of a dealership agreement which obligated Stewart to market Ricoh's copiers. The agreement included a forum-selection clause specifying that suits were to be brought in Manhattan. When Stewart filed suit in Alabama, Ricoh moved to transfer the case to Manhattan pursuant to the forum-selection clause. However, the Alabama District Court denied the motion because Alabama law \"looks unfavorably upon contractual forum selection clauses.\" However, the court certified an interlocutory appeal, which the Eleventh Circuit accepted. The Eleventh Circuit narrowly reversed the District Court.\n\nThe Supreme Court remanded the case, holding that the federal venue transfer statute, 28 U.S.C. § 1404(a), governed the District Court's interpretation of forum-selection clauses. In particular, the considerations of convenience to the parties and the fairness of the transfer in light of the parties relative bargaining power (when drafting the forum-selection clause) mandated by federal law collided with the Alabama policy categorically disfavoring forum-selection clauses, and that in the \"single field of operation... the instructions of Congress are supreme.\"\n\nJustice Scalia dissented from the majority opinion, arguing that there was no direct collision between § 1404(a) and Alabama's law, and that therefore the appropriate inquiry is whether the Rules of Decision Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1652, mandated the use of state law. Applying the RDA analysis from \"Hanna v. Plumer\" (1965), Scalia argued that state law governed the question because venue selection would encourage forum shopping, and that the choice of venue was highly outcome determinative because \"[i]t is difficult to imagine an issue of more importance, other than one that goes to the very merits of the lawsuit, than the validity of a contractual forum-selection provision.\"\n"}
{"id": "49072349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49072349", "title": "Tail biting in pigs", "text": "Tail biting in pigs\n\nTail biting in pigs is an abnormal behavior whereby a pig uses its teeth to bite, chew or orally manipulate another pigs's tail. Tail biting is used to describe a range in severity from light manipulation of the tail to physically harming the tail, causing infection, amputation or even harming areas surrounding the tail. Tail biting typically occurs under the following conditions: indoor facility with a high density of pigs housed in a confined area (like a pen); lack of a substrate material; poor ventilation system, or poor feed quality and accessibility.\n\nThere are three types of tail biting: two-stage, sudden forceful, and obsessive. The type of tail biting is based on the behaviors of each the biter and victim, physical consequences of the bite, and conditions under which the biting happens. A common cause of tail biting is due to pigs feeling stressed or discomfort and are looking for something to divert their attention. Some other causes of tail biting involve possible breed predilections, gender, feed source, substrate materials, gastrointestinal discomfort, and general health of the pig(s). It usually starts out as the pig being curious to investigate its surroundings and begins with harmless nibbling. The nibbling then turns into biting- if blood is drawn from the bite this can cause the pig to bite even more due to their natural appetite for blood.\n\nTail biting causes major financial and animal welfare issues within the commercial swine industries due to reduced weight gain, treatments, culling, and carcass condemnation. Studies have been done for farmers to identify the risk factors causing tail biting and to implement and experiment ways to reduce and prevent it. The studies ultimately yielded variable results due to the many factors of tail biting and the fact general recommendations are not appropriate for all farms.\n\nThe term \"tail biting\" can be used to describe a range of tail manipulation behaviors from light nibbling to cannibalism. However, the term \"tail biting\" mainly refers to the formation of lesions on the victim. There has not been a clear definition for \"tail biting\" therefore it is common for researchers to refer to different things when using the term. Tail biting tends to happen when swine are housed in indoor facilities and in pens where multiple pigs are housed together. With multiple pigs housed in one area, they can become crowded which has the potential to induce stress. Other factors in this circumstance that can cause stress in pigs are a lack of substrate material in the housing environment, a lack of ventilation, or lack of quality feed (low salt or low iron diets) or access to the feed. Tail biting even happens out of pure boredom. Stressful situations, boredom and frustration motivate the actions of tail biting.\n\nThe certain behaviors and conditions that tail biting happens under can be split up into three types: two-stage, sudden forceful, and obsessive. \n\nPigs go through teeth changes at ages 3–4 weeks and 7–8 months. Like humans and many other species, they go through teething phases which can prompt them to start tail biting. Pigs also have a natural tendency to chew and an attraction to blood, therefore if they start chewing on a tail and draw blood, it makes it harder for them to stop and can lead to infection. As pigs feel uncomfortable in their housing environment, they turn to biting and harming the tails of the pigs surrounding them. Factors that can trigger tail biting include environmental, husbandry, and diet factors like temperature, competition for food and water, vitamin E deficiency, and high fat diets.\n\nTail biting is considered one of the major animal welfare problems affecting the fattening of pigs in the swine industry. This is because of the costs to treat and costs due to slower fattening to slaughter weight. There are factors to be taken into account when evaluating how tail biting affects production since they have to do with growth, feed intake, leanness and other production traits. Some of those factors are genetics, breed, gender. \n\nThe victim pigs of tail biting should be isolated from the others in order to prevent further damage. The tail can be dressed with a bandage and/or sprayed with an antiseptic. Broad spectrum antibiotics can be prescribed by a veterinarian to prevent and treat any infections. Meat withholding periods should be taken into account if antibiotics are prescribed.\n\nTo minimize tail biting, toys like chains, alcathene piping, and rubber boots can be provided to redirect pigs chewing tendencies. A substrate material for the flooring of the pen like feed or straw can provide additional enrichment in preventing tail biting as well. Tail docking is another way to prevent tail biting. This is done when piglets are 3–7 days old and should be done cleanly and efficiently by someone who is competent. Dietary supplements can be given to increase salt levels which has been shown to be effective. Salt levels should be monitored as to prevent excessive intake and salt poisoning. Other things that can be monitored and adjusted are potential stressors like stocking density, temperature and ventilation regulation. In regards to stocking density, there are minimum space requirements for pigs based on weight per The Welfare of Farmed Animals Regulations. Temperature and ventilation should be monitored and regulated as to prevent chilling, overheating, too much dust, gas, and ammonia buildup in turn decreasing stress induced tail biting.\n"}
{"id": "40420213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40420213", "title": "Third-party doctrine", "text": "Third-party doctrine\n\nThe third-party doctrine is a United States legal theory that holds that people who voluntarily give information to third parties—such as banks, phone companies, internet service providers (ISPs), and e-mail servers—have \"no reasonable expectation of privacy.\" A lack of privacy protection allows the United States government to obtain information from third parties without a legal warrant and without otherwise complying with the Fourth Amendment prohibition against search and seizure without probable cause and a judicial search warrant. Libertarians typically call this government activity unjustified spying and a violation of individual and privacy rights.\n\nFollowed by the states in 1791, the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution was enacted in 1792, holding:\n\nIn \"Katz v. United States\" (1967), the United States Supreme Court established its reasonable expectation of privacy test. In 1976 (\"United States v. Miller\") and 1979 (\"Smith v. Maryland\"), the Court affirmed that \"a person has no legitimate expectation of privacy in information he voluntarily turns over to third parties.\"\n\nIn response to \"Katz v. United States\" (1967) and \"Berger v. New York\" (1967), the United States Congress enacted the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, of which Title III is known as the \"Wiretap Act.\" Title III was Congress' attempt to extend Fourth Amendment-like protections to telephonic and other wired forms of communication.\n\nIn 1986, the United States Congress updated the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 by enacting the Electronic Communications Privacy Act which included an updated \"Wiretap Act\" and also extended Fourth Amendment-like protections to electronic communications in Title II of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, known as the Stored Communications Act.\n\nA 2012 Maryland District Court court case (\"United States v. Graham\") held that historical cell site location data is not protected by the Fourth Amendment.\n\nIn the same year, Associate Justice Sonia Sotomayor, writing a concurrence in a case (\"United States v. Jones\") involving the police placing a GPS tracker on a suspect without a warrant, noted that \n\nMore fundamentally, it may be necessary to reconsider the premise that an individual has no reasonable expectation of privacy in information voluntarily disclosed to third parties. This approach is ill suited to the digital age, in which people reveal a great deal of information about themselves to third parties in the course of carrying out mundane tasks.\n\nIn \"Carpenter v. United States\" (2018), the Supreme Court ruled warrants are needed for gathering cell phone tracking information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4551563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4551563", "title": "Thirteenth Council of Toledo", "text": "Thirteenth Council of Toledo\n\nThe Thirteenth Council of Toledo opened on 4 November 683. It was called by Erwig and consisted of 77 bishops, 5 abbots, 3 church dignitaries, and 27 palatine functionaries. \n\nThe king asked for the pardon and rehabilitation of the rebels against King Wamba in 673. The bishops consented to return to the rebels and their descendants their possessions and positions. The pardon extended to all those who had been disgraced for the same reason since the reign of Chintila (636-640). Erwig desired that no vendettas should hamper his reign. \n\nThe council also condemned forced confessions, necessitating justice without torture. They also imposed a maximum prison sentence. \n\nFinally, the council repeated the oft-rendered prohibition on harming the royal family after the death of the monarch.\n\n"}
{"id": "33228177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33228177", "title": "Toro embolado", "text": "Toro embolado\n\nA ' (in Spanish), ' (in Catalan), roughly meaning 'bull with balls', is a festive activity, typical of many towns in Spain (mainly in the Valencian community and Southern Catalonia), in which a bull that has balls of flammable material attached to its horns, which are set on fire, is set free in the streets at night, and participants dodge the bull when it comes close. It can be considered a variant of an ( in Catalan). This activity is held in a number of Spanish towns during their local festivals. In recent years, animal welfare activists have attempted to stop this practice due to the cruelty to the animal. \n\nThe animal is usually tied to a post and then teams of people prevent it from moving while a wooden frame with two spikes with balls of flammable material is attached to its horns. These are then set alight and the rope is cut. Sometimes fireworks are attached too, which then go off shortly afterwards. There is usually a barricade separating the bull from the spectators. \n\nA somewhat similar activity is the , in which the live bull is replaced by a bull-shaped metal frame (held by a runner) which is set alight.\n\n"}
{"id": "9802327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9802327", "title": "Treaty of Torrellas", "text": "Treaty of Torrellas\n\nThe Treaty of Torrellas (called a \"sentencia arbitral\", \"sentence by arbitration,\" in Castilian), signed in Zaragoza in 1304, settled the question of conquest of the Kingdom of Murcia, thitherto a dependency of the Crown of Castile, by James II of Aragon.\n\nBetween 1296 and 1300, James led a series of military operations in Murcia with the intention of conquering a large zone between Elda in the north and Huércal-Overa in the south.\n\nJames got together with Ferdinand IV of Castile in 1304 to fix new borders between their two states in Andalusia. Peace was effected between the two powers and the major part of Murcia was assigned to Castile. The cities of Orihuela, Elche, Caudete, Elda, and Alicante passed to the Kingdom of Valencia. The treaty, however, did not last, being replaced the next year by the Treaty of Elche.\n\n"}
{"id": "14552822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14552822", "title": "United States v. Correll", "text": "United States v. Correll\n\nUnited States v. Correll, 389 U.S. 299 (1967), is a case in which the United States Supreme Court ruled 5-3 that in order for the taxpayer to be allowed to deduct the cost of his meals incurred while on a business trip, the trip must have required him to stop for sleep or rest.\n\nThe respondent, a traveling salesman from Tennessee, routinely took same-day business trips throughout 1960 and 1961. He would leave on business early in the morning and come back by dinner. Because he would eat breakfast and lunch on the road, he deducted the cost of those meals from his 1960 and 1961 income tax return pursuant to § 162(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code. § 162(a)(2) allows the taxpayer to deduct \"traveling expenses [incurred] while away from home in the pursuit of a trade or business.\" The Commissioner of Internal Revenue (\"Commissioner\") disallowed the deductions on the ground that the respondent did not meet the definition of \"away from home\" under § 162(a)(2) because his trip did not require him to sleep or rest. Therefore, the Commissioner ruled that the cost of the meals was not a § 162(a)(2) business expense, but rather a \"’personal, living’ expense under § 262.\" The respondent paid the tax and sued for a refund in the District Court. He received a favorable verdict in the District Court, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The Supreme Court granted certiorari “in order to resolve a conflict among the circuits on this recurring question of federal income tax administration.”\n\nIf the cost of the meals did not qualify for a § 162(a)(2) business expense deduction, then they would be classified as a § 262 personal expense, and would be non-deductible. Whether the cost of the meals falls under § 162(a)(2) depends on how the phrase \"traveling ... away from home\" is interpreted. The Commissioner has interpreted the phrase as requiring the taxpayer to sleep or rest during his trip. The Court found two advantages to the Commissioner’s interpretation. First, the Court noted that a business traveler who is allowed a § 162(a)(2) business deduction receives a windfall, because part of what is spent on meals represents a personal living expense that other taxpayers are not entitled to deduct at all. Therefore, fairness demands that § 162(a)(2) should not extend to all situations involving business travel. Allowing a taxpayer who has to travel two blocks from his home on a business trip to take a § 162(a)(2) deduction, but not the taxpayer whose business requires no travel at all, illustrates the inequitable result of a contrary approach. Second, the requirement that the taxpayer must sleep away from home in order to qualify for a § 162(a)(2) deduction is a bright-line, easy to administer rule that avoids unnecessary litigation.\n\nThe Court uses statutory interpretation to affirm the Commissioner’s approach. First, the Court notes that “traveling” implies being “away from home.” Therefore, a broad interpretation of “away from home” would make the phrase redundant. In addition, the Court observes that the statute groups “meals and lodging” together, suggesting Congress’ intent to allow a deduction for the cost of meals only where the business traveler has to pay for lodging as well.\n\nFinally, the Court notes that even if alternatives to this bright-line rule are available, it is not the Court’s role to fashion a new rule. “In this area of limitless factual variations, ‘it is the province of Congress and the Commissioner, not the courts, to make the appropriate adjustments.’”\n\nJustices Douglas, Black and Fortas dissented on the ground that the phrase “while away from home” goes to geography and not time. The dissent argued that the majority’s approach of interpreting the phrase as “overnight” incorrectly switches the focus to a time element.\n\nThe Court affirmed the Commissioner’s interpretation of the “away from home” requirement of § 162(a)(2). By doing so, the Court chose to retain a bright-line rule instead of a case-by-case approach — thereby avoiding uncertainty and excessive litigation.\n\nFurthermore, the decision puts all one-day travelers forced to pay for their meals on an equal footing when it comes to allowing a § 162(a)(2) business expense deduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "57923616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57923616", "title": "Washington v. United States", "text": "Washington v. United States\n\nWashington v. United States, 584 U.S. ___ (2018), was a United States Supreme Court case regarding Native American fishing rights in the U.S. state of Washington. In the case, the court deadlocked 4-4, with Justice Anthony Kennedy recusing himself due to his prior involvement in the case as a judge on the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The deadlock left standing a lower court ruling that the State of Washington must redesign and rebuild road culverts to allow salmon to swim upstream, to uphold Native American treaty rights to fish. The issue decided by the federal courts was whether, under the 1855–1856 Stevens Treaties, \"the right to fish is the right to put a net in the water or the right for there to be fish to catch\"; however, with the 4-4 Supreme Court decision, it may not be binding on future court decisions.\n\nThe case was argued on April 18, 2018.\n\nThe cost of stream restoration demanded by the court decision was estimated to be $3.7 billion, making culvert replacement of the top megaprojects in the Seattle area.\n\nThe decision was \"per curiam\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37312723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312723", "title": "Woolwich Building Society v IRC", "text": "Woolwich Building Society v IRC\n\nWoolwich Equitable Building Society v Inland Revenue Commissioners [1993] AC 70 is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning to what extent enrichment of the defendant must be at the expense of the claimant.\n\nIt related to the payment of tax which was subsequent held not to have been due as a result of the invalidity of the law under which the tax had been assessed. The Inland Revenue repaid the tax, but disputed their liability to pay interest on the money during the time which they had held it.\n\nThe Woolwich Building Society was charged £57 million in tax that it objected to as being assessed under a tax law which is alleged was \"ultra vires\". It paid the sums on a \"without prejudice\" basis, and then sought judicial review with a view to reclaiming the tax. The House of Lords agreed with Woolwich. The revenue repaid the tax, but refused to pay any interest, which was agreed to be in the amount of £6.73 million. Under section 35A of the Supreme Court Act 1981 interest would only be given at the court’s discretion if an entitlement to restitution of the principal could be made out. So because there was a dispute of the interest, the question was whether Woolwich was entitled as of right to restitution of the principal. The problem was a claim based on mistake could not succeed, because Woolwich argued it was \"ultra vires\" from the start. It was not duress, because the only threat by the Revenue would be to sue for non payment, and threatening to sue is legitimate pressure. Nor was it duress \"colore officii\" because the Revenue was not impliedly threatening to withhold performance of a duty owed to Woolwich.\n\nLord Goff, Browne-Wilkinson and Slynn said that a demand for payment by a public authority \"ultra vires\" was a good ground for restitution itself, in essence a public law ground for restitution based on a constitutional principle of no taxation without Parliament. The Bill of Rights article 4 says there should be no taxation without legislation.\n\nLord Slynn said the mistake of law bar was ‘open to review by your Lordships’ House’.\n\nLord Keith dissented.\n\nLord Jauncey also dissented.\n\n"}
{"id": "369121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369121", "title": "Worshipful Company of Scriveners", "text": "Worshipful Company of Scriveners\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Scriveners is one of the 110 livery companies of the City of London. The Scriveners Company was originally known as the \"Mysterie of the Writers of the Court Letter\" and, since its incorporation, as \"Master Wardens and Assistants of the Company of Scrivenors of the Cittie of London [sic]\". It is one of the few livery companies that from its foundation to the present day has been influential in setting the standards for a living profession, namely that of scrivener notary. The company's first ordinances were granted in 1373. Its Royal Charter was granted by King James I on 28th January 1617.\n\nHistorically, scrivener notaries were the only notaries public permitted to practise in the City of London, the Liberties of Westminster, The Borough (Southwark), and other places within three miles from the City. In 1801, Parliament passed the Public Notaries Act that confirmed this status. \n\nScrivener notaries are only appointed after a two-year apprenticeship to a practising scrivener notary and sitting the examinations set by the Company. They must be fluent in one or two foreign languages and be familiar with the principles and practice of foreign laws. The ancient privilege of scrivener notaries was extinguished by the Access to Justice Act (1999), since when any notary public qualified to practise in England and Wales may practise within the company's former exclusive jurisdiction. Nonetheless, they remain a discrete branch of the profession and their unique status is recognised in civil-law countries by their membership in the International Union of Notaries (UINL). Current qualification rules were adopted by the Court of the Company in 1998.\n\nIn addition to the scrivener notaries, the membership of the Company comprises those with qualifications and interests in the fields of calligraphy, heraldry, genealogy, wider aspects of the law, authorship, accountancy, and business.\n\nAdmission to the Freedom and Livery is, as with other livery companies, via one of three possible routes: redemption, patrimony or servitude. Each applicant has to be proposed by two liverymen, one of whom must be a member of the Court, or by authority of the Selection Committee. Women were first admitted to the Company in 1665.\n\nAlso, as with many other livery companies, its principal activities divide into four areas: professional, charitable, civic, and social. Its charitable activities are governed by its Sexcentenary Charity Fund.\n\nIn the order of precedence of the City Livery Companies, the Scriveners Company ranks forty-fourth. Its motto is \"Scribite Scientes\", Latin for \"Write, Ye Learned Ones\". The Master is head of the Company and its membership comprises Wardens, Assistants, Liverymen, Freemen and Apprentices.\n\nThe Scriveners Company has produced two Lord Mayors of the City of London: Sir Robert Clayton in 1680 and Sir James Shaw in 1805. The Scriveners' Hall was burned down in the Great Fire of London (1666), and rebuilt thereafter. However, for financial reasons the Company had to sell the Hall to the Worshipful Company of Coachmakers and Coach Harness Makers in 1703. It was demolished again in the Blitz. The site of the Hall is in Noble Street, just off Gresham Street, near Guildhall.\n\nThere are six firms of scrivener notaries active in the City of London: Cheeswrights, De Pinna, John Newton & Sons, John Venn & Sons, Saville & Co. and Imison & Co. The Worshipful Company of Scriveners is the only body from a common-law jurisdiction to have been accepted to the International Union of Notaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32933829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32933829", "title": "Xnet", "text": "Xnet\n\nXnet (former eXgae) is a non-profit activist platform that develops and promotes alternative models for cultural dissemination and royalty management and work in different fields related to digital rights, networked democracy and freedom of expression. Its activities revolve around five core themes: free culture, Internet neutrality, technopolitics, network democracy, new models of sustainability for the digital era and the defence of citizen journalism and the legal fight against corruption. Xnet also engages in political lobbying at the national and international levels, by preparing and submitting legislative proposals and viral campaigns.\nXnet is a member of European Digital Rights (EDRi), a not-for-profit association to promote, protect and uphold civil rights in the field of information and communication technolog\n\nXnet is responsible for a significant amount of activity in the defence, dissemination and expansion of digital rights in Spain and Europe digital rights in Spain and Europe and is a member of EDRI (European Digital Rights), an international group of organisations defending civil rights in the digital domain.\n\nIn addition to organising the FCForum, Xnet frequently publishes legislative recommendations to ensure that local, regional, Spanish and European regulations are respectful of civil rights and freedom in the digital domain, and actively promotes and participates in advocacy campaigns for or against laws, directives or public policies that have an impact in this field.\n\nFollowing Snowden's revelations about mass surveillance, Xnet began work on disseminating and advocating among the general public for communication privacy and the security of information tools aimed at Internet users in order to help them guarantee their fundamental rights on their own, whatever their legislative environments.\n\nSince its inception, Xnet has been intensely active in the defence of Net Neutrality as a major issue affecting our Internet freedom, as well as other major issues such as the protection of whistleblowers, copyright abuses against the free circulation of information and the so-called \"gag laws\" and their impact on freedom of expression on the Internet in the Spanish state.\n\nBecause of the leaking of the 'Blesa's Emails' (received by the X Party in 2013) that lead to the investigation and court case against Miguel Blesa (former president of the national savings bank Caja Madrid now Bankia), Xnet decided to improve create an anonymous mailbox at the disposal of those who hold relevant information about corruption. This mailbox allows citizens to send information secure and anonymously.\n\nThe organisation reports that the information received by XnetLeaks is treated first by journalists and secondly by a legal team. XnetLeaks received the first reports on the case of Caja Madrid's 'opaque Cards' through the leaks of Blesa's emails, which also uncovered the corrupt management plot concerning the high speed train AVE or the irregular financing through ghost foundations of politicians and big trade unions on Caja Madrid's \nmanagement board. XnetLeaks has a blog published on five different media through which it has facilitated open access to Caja Madrid's emails, known as Blesa's Emails.\n\n15MpaRato is a citizen platform launched by Xnet iwith the aim of collecting and spreading for naming those responsible for the crisis in Spain. It was created on May 16, 2012 by launching a public campaign and citizen lawsuit against Rodrigo Rato and other management positions at Bankia (the Spanish bailed-out bank).\n\nTheir main objective wasfile a lawsuit against Rodrigo Rato and Bankia's board. They presented a lawsuit that was accepted by the National Court in Spain and Rodrigo Rato and Bankia were officially accused of fraud in what the media called \"The Bankia Case\". The trial is currently ongoing, as of December 2015.\n\nThis working group was created in January 2015 to coordinate the efforts of groups and individuals in an active network against corruption. Xnet coordinates and represents the working group. Also in the group: David Fernandez, president of the Parliamentary Commission on the 'Pujol Case' and member of the CUP; the 15MpaRato platform; Hervé Falciani; the collective against corruption Cafè amb Llet; the X Party's Anti-Corruption Commission and the Federation of Neighbourhood Associations of Barcelona, among others.\n\nThe group has managed to procure the approval of the appearance of the Catalan government as private prosecutor against Iñaki Urdangarín and Princess Cristina in the case of 'Palma Arena'.\n\nOn November 26, 2015, the City Council of Barcelona creates the 'Office for Transparency and Good Practices' of the City Council of Barcelona, for whose management it receives advice from the Citizen Working Group against Corruption in Catalonia.\n\nThis collaboration will consist on the City Council periodically making available the work developed by the Office to the Catalonia's Citizen Working Group against Corruption. Moreover, the Group agrees to monitor the proper functioning of the Office.\n\nThis working group is officially presented in Barcelona on October 31, 2015, as part of the seventh edition of Free Culture Forum.\n\nIt is a state platform of citizen groups actively working against corruption, formed by Simona Levi and Sergio Salgado, from Xnet Leaks and 15MpaRato; Audita Sanidad, a collective working on a citizen debt audit of the health care sector; Ana Garrido, one of the first plaintiffs if the corruption case Gürtel; Kontuz, a citizen association of users, consumers and taxpayers that has uncovered major corruption cases in Navarra; Acción Cívica; Encarnacion Cortes, councilor who denounced corrupción in the town of Benalmádena; David Fernandez, former president of the Parliamentary Commission on the Pujol case as deputy of the CUP-Parliament; Fernando Urruticoechea, who has reported several cases of corruption from the public administration and Patricia Ramirez Suarez, activist in defense of banking abuses and founder and president of ASUFIN.\n\nOther participants as advisors are the Citizen Debt Audit Platform - PACD; Pau A. Monserrat, economist author of \"La banca culpable\" (The Guilty Banks) and Raul Burillo, tax inspector who led the team of inspectors which investigated cases such as 'Palma Arena', 'Son Oms' or 'Maquillaje'.\n\nThe Citizen Group against Corruption has presented a Decalogue for Whistleblowers as a proposal towards the elaboration of specific legislation for the protection of complainants or alert triggers of corruption.\n\nThe oXcars' are a non-competitive awards ceremony that is held at Sala Apolo in Barcelona, Spain, in October each year. They are a public showcase that puts the spotlight on cultural creation and distribution carried out under the paradigms of shared culture. Through presentations and symbolic mentions of works in a series of categories, the oXcars uses parody as a strategy for showing real legal solutions. The award categories include: Music, Animation, Theatre, Human Tools, Future Markets and Great Leftovers of Spanish Culture, among others.\n\nThe FCForum is an international conference organised by Xnet and a network of other groups and activists. It brings together organisations and experts in the field of free/libre culture and knowledge, with the aim of creating a strategic global framework for action and international coordination. It takes place annually in Barcelona.\n\nThe first FCForum was held in Barcelona from October 30 to November 1, 2009, to coincide with the 2nd oXcars awards ceremony. The principal organisations and active voices in the world of Free Culture and knowledge participated in the event. A series of working groups at the Forum produced a unique document known as the “Charter for Innovation, Creativity and Access to Knowledge,” which proposes a series of reforms to the Spanish Intellectual Property legislation, Telecoms Package and other issues related to the circulation of information and net neutrality. The Charter was sent to a thousand governments and political and social institutions around the world. International bodies such as the European Union Committee on Culture and Education and the Government of Brazil (through the Department of Digital Culture) sent official observers to the Forum.\n\nThe second FCForum was held in Barcelona from October 28 to 31, 2010, and focused on the new models of sustainability in the digital era. Two documents were drafted as a result of this event: the “Sustainable Models for Creativity\" and the \"How-To Manual for Sustainable Creativity'.\n\nThe third edition of the FCForum was held in Barcelona on October 28, 29 and 30, 2011, under the title ‘Networks for a R-evolution’. Day one \nrevolved around sustainable models for creativity in the digital age. \nDay two focused on challenges and tools for the defence of the \nInternet, of sharing and of the communication, self-organisation and defence tools in the context of the global revolution.\n\nThe 2012 edition was held at Ars Santa Mònica on October 26 and 27.\n\nDay one explored the theme of sustainable models for the creative sector \nand day two was dedicated to democracy in the digital age.\n\nThe 2013 FCForum took place on October 25 and revolved around four core themes:\nThe 2014 edition took place in different spaces and dates.\nThe 2015 edition\n\nUnder the title Fighters & Makers, the seventh edition of the FCForum took place on October 30 and 31 and November 2, 2015, in different spaces in Barcelona.\n\nOn October 30, Sala Conservas held a series of working groups that came together round the following topics:\nOn October 31, the FCForum moved to the Farinera del Clot cultural center, with the following programme:\nNovember 2 was the last day, dedicated to \"Makers & business models\" and held at the BAU Design College of Barcelona.\n\nThe D’Evolution Summit was created as a civil society response to the European Forum for Cultural Industries, organised by the Spanish Ministry of Culture in collaboration with the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, which was held in Barcelona on March 29 and 30, 2010. Authorities, experts and lobby groups participated in the Forum, which focused on five core themes: financing and the cultural industries, intellectual property and royalties management, strategies for the internationalisation of culture, culture and territorial development, and the profiles and skills for culture industry professionals.\n\nThe Forum for Cultural Industries lent continuity to the International Conference on Economy and Culture held in May 2009, and took place just before the informal meeting of the 27 Ministers of Culture of the European Union on March 31 within the framework of the Spanish Presidency of the EU.\n\nThe D’Evolution Summit was a counter-summit organised at the same time, to demand amendments to Spain’s Law of Sustainable Economy (known as the anti-downloads law) and an end to the monopoly of copyright collecting societies.\n\nDuring three days, the D’Evolution summit organised Internet broadcasts of the proceedings of the Forum for Cultural Industries and the Informal Meeting of Ministers, staged concerts with groups who use free licences, and carried out actions such as the handing out music with free licences to hairdressing salons and the action “We won’t carry the bucket for an industry that refuses to adapt to reality” in which the comedian Leo Bassi dressed up as a clown and tried to give a giant inflatable duck to the European ministers of culture. D’Evolution also organised viral campaigns and provided information on the topics being discussed at the Forum through social networks.\n\n\"Parents are the Pirates\" is a self-published collective book consisting of contributions by fifty authors who were invited to write or illustrate, in 400 words or less, one of the following topics:\n\n\nThe book was launched at the first oXcars, in October 2008. It was published under a 2008 season Poetic Licence and is distributed by independent publishing house Traficantes de Sueños.\n\nXnet provides legal advice on copyright, licences, the Spanish levy on private copying, private copies, P2P, copyright collecting societies, broadcasting rights and other issues related to the digital society. They provide artists with information about the licences they can use to cover their work without becoming dependent on a collecting society. They also advise businesses that are being sued by the Spanish collecting society SGAE and want to know their rights and obligations.\n\nOn August 2, 2010, lawyers from Spain’s largest copyright collecting society, the SGAE, sent a certified fax to eXgae demanding they shut down the domain name exgae.net and suspend their activities, alleging infringement of the SGAE brand and unfair competition. In the interests of avoiding a long and expensive legal battle, the collective changed its name to Xnet, although it continues working on the same issues and activities.\n\n\n\nnazhg"}
