{"id": "6998527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6998527", "title": "0-0-1-3", "text": "0-0-1-3\n\n0-0-1-3 is an alcohol abuse prevention program developed in 2004 at Francis E. Warren Air Force Base based on research by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism regarding binge drinking in college students. This program was a command-led collaboration of unit leaders, base agencies, and base personnel, and utilized a three-tiered approach: 1. Identify and assist high risk drinkers, 2. Develop a base culture, as well as recreational options, supportive of safe, responsible behaviors, and 3. Partnering with the broader community to promote alcohol prevention.\n\n0-0-1-3 stands for:\n\nThe first tier included screening of all personnel for binge drinking utilizing a measure such as the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT). Persons identified as possibly at risk were offered an alcohol screening consultation with the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) program. Consistent with Air Force policy all active duty members who had alcohol-related misconduct incidents were also referred for evaluation. Based on evaluation results individuals were provided education and motivational enhancement interventions, or if found to have a substance use disorder, entered into a treatment program.\n\nThe second tier included primary prevention-level education of all personnel regarding low-risk alcohol use, hazards of binge drinking and illness, a media campaign targeted and pilot-tested for both young adult and older adult groups, development and promotion of alternative recreational options, and use of disciplinary and legal consequences, among other actions. This included development of the name 0-0-1-3 as both a slogan and a guideline for low risk alcohol use. Personnel from the age range at highest risk for binge drinking, 18-25, were involved in development and execution of these actions.\n\nThe third tier included partnering with the Wyoming Governor's Council on Impaired Driving and the Advisory Council for the Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Program, as well as local law enforcement, the Chamber of Commerce, and others to promote responsibility and safety regarding alcohol beverage sales, service, and use.\n\nMetrics collected in 2005 showed a 74% decrease in alcohol-related incidents such as driving violations, public drunkenness, domestic violence, sexual assault, thefts and other infractions. The base also reported 81% fewer cases of underage drinking and 45% fewer drunken-driving arrests. Multiple other military bases adopted elements of the program including a grant-funded trial at five bases. The program served as the model for the Air Force's Culture of Responsible Choices (CoRC) program.\n\nA 0-0-1-3 program was also implemented by the senior administration of the United States Naval Academy in response to a string of alcohol-related incidents that generated a large amount of negative publicity during the 2005-2006 school year. Its primary aim there is to \"promote responsible alcohol use\" within the brigade of midshipmen.\n\nAlthough most health professionals recommend limiting alcohol consumption to 2-4 drinks per day for men, the three drink cap has contributed the most to its massive unpopularity among the brigade, as it is designed to ensure that no midshipman is able to achieve a blood alcohol content (BAC) level above the Maryland legal driving limit of 0.08 (even when \"not\" driving or operating machinery).\n\nWhile the senior leadership at the Naval Academy insists that 0-0-1-3 is only a guideline for responsible alcohol use, its enforcement involves mandatory, random breathalyzer tests for all midshipmen regardless of age or rank. Those found in \"violation\" of 0-0-1-3 (evidenced by having a BAC above 0.08) are placed on record as having alcohol abuse issues, and repeat offenders are subject to severe administrative conduct action, up to and including expulsion. In contrast, neither the U.S. Military Academy (West Point) nor the U.S. Air Force Academy conducts random breath testing or punishes students simply for blowing above a particular BAC when not driving.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5511581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5511581", "title": "AIDS education and training centers", "text": "AIDS education and training centers\n\nAIDS, caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), has become a global health issue, and various ways are being explored in order to combat the spread of the disease. One such way to somewhat limit the spread of AIDS is through education. Societies with significant number of HIV positive individuals and people that have been diagnosed with having cases of AIDS are societies in which education about the disease is limited to almost non-existent and where culture and tradition clash with modern medicine. Thus, education and training are of great importance and a number of organizations have been formed within the past two decades. Organizations vary from being government funded to private and/or are formed by health and social advocates. Organizations provide range of services from support for families and individuals affected by the disease, classes in academic settings ranging from preschools to universities, available resources to updates on the latest advances in medical treatments.\n\nIn many societies, even in many Western cultures, stereotyping exists and one way to stop or prevent discrimination is through education and passing out information about the ways the disease is spread. Big problem in containing the spread of the disease are cultural and religious backgrounds where usage of common contraceptives, such as latex condoms, are prohibited. Unfortunate events such as wars and armed conflicts often employ rape as a mean of terrorizing local population, in which AIDS, among other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), is spread almost exponentially and, very often, it is impossible to trace back to the individual that was the original HIV carrier. The consequences of such horrific acts are infected mothers who give births to infected babies and the disease is spread vertically. Because of its impact on global population and the high rate of spreading, AIDS has been classified as being pandemic.\n\nThere is a growing number of organizations exclusively dedicated to AIDS education and prevention, as well as organized training of medical staff and any individuals that may be interested. Main goals of these organizations are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1638180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638180", "title": "Alpha Omega Alpha", "text": "Alpha Omega Alpha\n\nAlpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society (ΑΩΑ) is an honor society in the field of medicine.\n\nAlpha Omega Alpha currently has active chapters in 130 LCME accredited medical schools in the United States and Lebanon. It annually elects over 3,500 new members based on an election process that evaluates academics, professionalism, leadership, research, and service. The majority of new members are elected in their final year of medical school, but distinguished teachers, faculty members, and alumni can also be inducted into the society. All elections are held at local chapters. No elections are held nationally. \n\nThough initially modeled after, and often compared to Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Omega Alpha looks at more than academic standing. In many cases, a valedictorian has not been selected for membership due to his/her inability to meet the other necessary criteria. Membership into ΑΩΑ can be a lifetime honor, if the member chooses to remain active, and ΑΩΑ members are expected to conduct themselves with honesty, leadership, morality, virtue, altruism, ethics, and dedication to serving others. \n\nThe organization's mission statement:\n\nAlpha Omega Alpha — dedicated to the belief that in the profession of medicine we will improve care for all by:\n\nΑΩΑ was founded in 1902 by William Webster Root and five other medical students at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, which later became the University of Illinois College of Medicine. The impetus for its formation was the generally poor quality of American medical schools and students at the time; Root and his colleagues wished to promote excellence in these groups. They decided that membership in ΑΩΑ was to be based on both scholarly achievement and professional conduct. \n\nRoot pitched his idea to nearby schools, and soon the University of Chicago's Pritzker School of Medicine and Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine had set up chapters, too. Ten years later, there were seventeen chapters. As more medical schools became interested, the national organization was able to become more selective in the standards a school had to meet to be eligible. Soon, it became a mark of prestige to have an ΑΩΑ chapter at one's school.\n\nRoot stated in the original constitution of ΑΩΑ: \"The mission of ΑΩΑ is to encourage high ideals of thought and action in schools of medicine and to promote that which is the highest in professional practice.\" The ΑΩΑ motto is, \"Be Worthy to Serve the Suffering.\" Root defined the duties of ΑΩΑ members, \"to foster the scientific and philosophical features of the medical profession, to look beyond self to the welfare of the profession and of the public, to cultivate social mindedness, as well as an individualistic attitude toward responsibilities, to show respect for colleagues, especially for elders and teachers, to foster research and in all ways to ennoble the profession of medicine and advance it in public opinion. It is equally a duty to avoid that which is unworthy, including the commercial spirit and all practices injurious to the welfare of patients, the public, or the profession.\" \n\nCollections of the society's papers were donated to the National Library of Medicine in 1973 by John Z. Bowers, and in 2000 by Gladys Brill Brampton.\n\nThe current constitution states that, \"Alpha Omega Alpha is organized for educational purposes exclusively and not for profit, and its aims shall be the promotion of scholarship and research in medical schools, the encouragement of a high standard of character and conduct among medical students and graduates, and the recognition of high attainment in medical science, practice, and related fields.\"\n\nTo this end, only the top medical students are elected, based on criteria such as grades, leadership, professionalism, and ethics. After securing the students permission, a first cut is made and the top academic quartile is evaluated. Of that group, one-sixth of a medical school's graduating class can be elected members of ΑΩΑ. Most are elected as fourth-year students (\"senior ΑΩΑ\") although a smaller amount of third-year students (\"junior ΑΩΑ\") are eligible for election.\n\nMembership in ΑΩΑ reflects a scholarly achievement, a demonstrated commitment to professionalism and leadership, and a dedication to community service. Induction to membership is limited to one-sixth of graduating medical school students who have excelled academically, demonstrated professionalism, and show promise of becoming leaders in medicine. \n\nΑΩΑ membership is recognized by medical institutions and practices around the world, and offers an advantage for members applying for residencies, fellowships and permanent career positions.\nFaculty, alumni, and residents can be elected to ΑΩΑ Chapters for their scholarly achievement, professional contributions, gifted teaching, and exemplary values demonstrated throughout their careers in medicine. \n\nΑΩΑ elections are held at the 130 ΑΩΑ Chapters, and overseen by the ΑΩΑ faculty Councilor. New members are expected to register with the national office and remain active by paying a modest dues annually.\n\nΑΩΑ elections at some institutions have been plagued by internal political and racial bias. A 2017 publication in \"JAMA Internal Medicine\" found that \"Black and Asian medical students were less likely than their white counterparts to be members of ΑΩΑ, which may reflect bias in selection. In turn, ΑΩΑ membership selection may affect future opportunities for minority medical students.\" This pattern persisted despite controlling for other co-variates such as extracurricular activities. Because \"the Constitution of ΑΩΑ gives many degrees of freedom to each chapter for the process of election of student members\", election to ΑΩΑ remains incredibly variable between medical schools and may reflect the local chapter's internal politics rather than academic achievement. While many of the most elite American medical schools have completely done away with student chapters of ΑΩΑ, the most high profile is the decision of the Mt. Sinai Icahn School of Medicine to completely forgo medical student elections to ΑΩΑ in September of 2018 . \n\nMedical students, faculty, and active ΑΩΑ members associated with ΑΩΑ Chapters are eligible to participate in the 12 national programs and awards that ΑΩΑ confers annually. The programs and awards are funded from member annual and lifetime dues.\n\nCarolyn L. Kuckein Student Research Fellowships—More than 50 Fellowships of $5,000 each with a $1,000 travel stipend to present findings at a national or international conference\n\nΑΩΑ Fellow in Leadership Award—Three $25,000 awards for active ΑΩΑ mid-career physicians development into future leaders in medicine\n\nRobert J. Glaser Distinguished Teacher Awards—In partnership with the American Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) four Distinguished Teachers received $10,000 each year, their medical school receives $2,500, and their Chapter receives $1,000\n\nPostgraduate Awards—Ten awards of $2,000 to support residents or fellows with a project in the spirit of the ΑΩΑ mission\n\nMedical Student Service Leadership Project Awards—$9,000 over three years to support service leadership projects that benefit the medical school and/or its local community\n\nHelen H. Glaser Student Essay Awards—Monetary first, second and third place prizes and publication in The Pharos for medical student essays about medicine or health\n\nThe Pharos Poetry Competition—Monetary first, second and third place prizes and publication in The Pharos for medical student poems about medicine or health\nEdward D. Harris Professionalism Award—A $10,000 award for institutions that represent best practices in medical professionalism\n\nMoser Award—A $4,500 writing prize for an essay, written by a physician, that celebrates the life of a physician, like Dr. Moser, who has enriched the world\n\nAdministrative Recognition Award—Councilors can recognize the invaluable work performed by administrative personnel to keep the Chapter running smoothly with a framed certificate of recognition and $500 award\n\nVisiting Professorships—Each of the 130 medical school Chapters may host one visiting professor each year to conduct grand rounds and hold various special presentation during a one-day visit\n\nVolunteer Clinical Faculty Awards—Available to all 130 medical school Chapters to recognize clinical faculty in community practices devoted to teaching medical students and residents\n\nAlpha Omega Alpha first published its one-of-a-kind, peer-reviewed medical humanities journal, in January 1938. The Pharos is named after the Pharos lighthouse of Alexandria, one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.\n\nProduced quarterly, with a print run of 50,000, and online readership of 35,000, The Pharos is sent quarterly to all active ΑΩΑ members, select medical libraries, institutions and associations, and contains articles, scholarly essays, and poetry on a wide array of nontechnical medical subjects including current events, medical history, art, and medical-related literature.\n\nThe Pharos serve as a beacon for the medical humanities - humanness, medical history, ethics, literature, law and politics, art, poetry, music, language, philosophy, and culture.\n\n\"In an age of rapidly evolving technology and forced efficiency, The Pharos continues to emphasize the artistic, the literary, and the place of music, language, and culture in medicine. Although themes may shift—now touching upon the economics or the ethics of times—humanism is the enduring content of our ΑΩΑ journal.\"\n\n—Faith T. Fitzgerald, MD\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3427679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3427679", "title": "Augusta Victoria Hospital", "text": "Augusta Victoria Hospital\n\nAugusta Victoria Compound is a church-hospital complex located on the southern side of Mount of Olives in East Jerusalem. The compound was built in 1907–1914 by the Empress Augusta Victoria Foundation as a center for the German Protestant community in Ottoman Palestine, in addition to the slightly older Church of the Redeemer from Jerusalem's Old City. Apart from the hospital, today the complex also includes the German Protestant Church of the Ascension with a c. 50 metre high belltower, a meeting centre for pilgrims and tourists, an interreligious kindergarten and a café, as well as the Jerusalem branch of the German Protestant Institute of Archaeology.\n\nThroughout much of its history, the compound was used first and foremost as a hospital, either by the military (during the First and Second World Wars and during Jordanian rule), or for Palestinian refugees and general public (from 1950 until today), and at times also as a government or military headquarters (1915–1927).\n\nToday, August Victoria Hospital provides specialty care for Palestinians from across the West Bank and the Gaza Strip with services including a cancer center, a dialysis unit, and a pediatric center. It is the second largest hospital in East Jerusalem, as well as the sole remaining specialized care unit located in the West Bank or Gaza Strip.\n\nThe complex was named for Augusta Viktoria of Schleswig-Holstein, wife of German Kaiser Wilhelm II, who visited Jerusalem in 1898. The architect, Robert Leibnitz, was inspired by German palaces, such as the German Hohenzollern Castle.\nThe complex was photographed in detail in ca. 1910, along with the inaugural celebrations, by Khalil Raad, Palestine's first Arab photographer. Although officially inaugurated on 10 April, 1910, the construction was only finalised in 1914.\n\nAfter the Kaiser's 1898 visit, he commissioned the construction of a guesthouse for German pilgrims. Private donations were collected throughout Germany and donators honoured with the Cross of the Mount of Olives. Many of the building materials were imported from Germany. A 60-metre high church tower was constructed with four bells, the largest of them weighing six tons. To transport these bells from Jaffa, the road to Jerusalem had to be widened and paved. The expense was more than double the cost of transporting the bells from Hamburg to Jaffa. Augusta Victoria was the first building in the country to have electricity, provided by a diesel generator.\n\nDuring World War I, the Hospital served as German military hospital. From 1915 to 1917 the compound was used as Ottoman headquarters by Djemal Pasha. From June to December 1917 the hospital was used as headquarters for the German high command of the German expeditionary corps (Asienkorps). After the British conquest, the Augusta Victoria compound served as the headquarters of General Allenby's Egyptian Expeditionary Force and later as the headquarters of the British Military Administration of Occupied Enemy Territory (South).\n\nFrom 1920 to 1927, Augusta Victoria was the official residence of the British High Commissioner of the Palestine Mandate. In 1927, the buildings were severely damaged in an earthquake and the pointy roof of the belfry was rebuilt by 10 metres shorter. The British headquarters moved to Armon HaNetziv, on the outskirts of Talpiot. In 1928 the compound was returned to its German pre-war owner, the Kaiserin Augusta Victoria Foundation.\n\nThe Nazi party held meetings and assemblies at Augusta Victoria under the leadership of Ludwig Buchhalter, a Templer living in the Germany Colony who was appointed head of Jerusalem branch of the Nazi party in 1934. In the mid-1930s, when the building was about to reopen as a hostel run by Deaconesses, the management decided to bar Jewish guests to preserve the institution's Christian character.\n\nDuring World War II, the compound was again used as a hospital by the British.\nUnder Jordanian administration, technically under United Nations Truce Supervision Organization control, it was a military hospital for soldiers from the Arab Legion. \n\nAfter World War II, the entire property of the German Evangelical mission to Palestine was passed into the fiduciary responsibility of the Lutheran World Federation (LWF); in 1950 the LWF established a large hospital for refugees in the compound. The hospital director was the long-time staff physician of the German Deaconess Hospital of Jerusalem, the Arab Palestinian Dr. Tawfiq Canaan, who kept this position until 1956.\n\nPrior to the 1967 Six-Day War, the campus was fortified with several bunkers. During that war the building was heavily damaged, the upper floor was devastated by fire and was only rebuilt in 1988.\n\nToday, August Victoria Hospital provides specialty care for Palestinians from across the West Bank and the Gaza Strip with services including a cancer center, a dialysis unit, and a pediatric center. In 2016, it inaugurated a bone marrow transplantation unit. It is the second-largest hospital in East Jerusalem, as well as being the sole remaining specialized-care hospital located in the West Bank or Gaza Strip. It runs 120 in-patient beds and treat a number of outpatients who come in for dialysis and radiation treatment, being the only facility serving 4.5m Palestinians in the area of radiation therapy. \n\nIn May 2016, Joint Commission International, a US-based body that assesses hospitals and health care facilities globally, re-accredited the hospital for another three years. \n\nThe Hospital is one of six specialized medical centers in the East Jerusalem Hospital Network, comprising Makassed Islamic Charitable Hospital, Augusta Victoria Hospital, Red Crescent Maternity Hospital, St John’s Eye Hospital, Princess Basma Rehabilitation Centre and St Joseph’s Hospital. They have been the main providers of tertiary referral care for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip for health services for which the Ministry of Health is unable to provide, such as cancer care, cardiac and eye surgeries, neonatal intensive care, children’s dialysis and physical rehabilitation of children. \n\nSince its establishment in 1950 Auguste Victoria Hospital has been primarily run and financed by The Lutheran World Federation and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). The hospital mission statement includes the provision of health care without regard to race, creed, gender, or national origin.\n\nThe hospital currently (2016) has 118 inpatient beds, 52 ambulatory beds and stations, and 403 staff. In 2016 it admitted 12,605 patients, and did 22,716 dialysis sessions, 20,088 chemotherapy sessions and 25,585 radiation sessions.\n\nThe Augusta Victoria compound currently contains the following buildings and institutions:\n\nThe rectory of the pastor of the Lutheran Church of the Redeemer is also located on the site, along with administrative offices and living quarters of the Jerusalem offices of The Lutheran World Federation.\n\nThe guesthouse is run by The Lutheran World Federation for international volunteers and guests.\n\nThe hospital has a Department of Oncology which is an advanced center for cancer treatment. The department consists of the Unit for Medical Oncology, the Unit for Radiation Oncology, and the Unit for Surgical Oncology.\n\nA pediatric oncology ward for Palestinian children opened in April 2005 in a joint project with the Peres Center for Peace, various Italian foundations and the Hadassah University Hospital, which trained the oncologist and nursing staff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11346348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11346348", "title": "Australian National Council on Drugs", "text": "Australian National Council on Drugs\n\nThe Australian National Council on Drugs (ANCD) describes itself as \"the principal advisory body to Government on drug policy and plays a critical role in ensuring the voice of the community is heard in relation to drug related policies and strategies.\" The Council occupies a unique position by virtue of its role in enhancing the partnership between government and the community. It has pivotal advisory, advocacy and representative functions, with a significant role to provide government Ministers with independent, expert advice on matters related to licit and illicit drugs.\n\nIn 1998, the Prime Minister established the ANCD as part of the Commonwealth Government’s response to reduce the harm caused by drugs in Australia.\n\nIt is chaired by Dr John Herron.\n\nAustralian National Council on Drugs\n"}
{"id": "36151626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36151626", "title": "Aviva method", "text": "Aviva method\n\nAviva Method is a physical exercise system that claims to stimulate the related glands for optimal reproductive hormone secretion. The name of the method is given by its developer, Aviva Gabriella Steiner, a Hungarian origin Israeli ballet dancer and PE teacher. The Aviva Method is a registered trademark within the European Union: it cannot be used without the approval of the Aviva Foundation. The trademark registration can be checked on the European Union Intellectual Property Office Website: https://www.oami.europa.eu/eSearch/#basic/1+1+1+1/50+50+50+50/Aviva%20Method \n\nAviva Method teachers claim to have good results with slack pelvic floor, incontinence, PCOS, irregular menstruation cycle and menstrual problems, fertility.\n\nAVIVA Method was developed by the Hungarian origin Israeli AVIVA Gabriella Steiner after 28 years of research and experiment. She’s brought up by parents, whom, active in sport, taught her to rely on the curing effect of physical movements in case of any health problems. She always believed that as we can control bowel movement and release of urine, it is possible to control the female periodic cycle. She learnt everything about movements as a student of Gertrud Kraus, the world-famous Israeli ballet dancer, then as a ballerina in the Opera House of Tel Aviv, later as a physiotherapist at the Medical University and in the Hadassah University Clinic. Finally, between 1966 and 69 when teaching gymnastic and health restoring exercises for women of 40plus, she could successfully find the key for her exercise system. The discovery happened when her exercises resulted in menstruation for even those in the group who thought to pass menopause. Gabriella Steiner then crystallized her technique until she, together with the practicing person, could achieve these results consistently, and she built a series of exercises consisting out of 18 dance looking like steps. Toma Ŝik, an Israeli pacifist, brought the method out from Israel around 1997. Later on, one of Aviva Gabriella Steiner’s students, a Hungarian yoga instructor and PE teacher, Livia Toth combined the method with diet and reached good results with several feminine health problems.\nBased on the Aviva Method Adelheid Ohlig developed Luna Yoga.\n\n"}
{"id": "11101687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11101687", "title": "Bachelor of Science in Public Health", "text": "Bachelor of Science in Public Health\n\nThe Bachelor of Science in Public Health (BSPH) (or Bachelor of Public Health) is an undergraduate degree that prepares students to pursue careers in the public, private, or non-profit sector in areas such as public health, environmental health, health administration, epidemiology, nutrition, biostatistics, or health policy and planning. Postbaccalaureate training is available in public health, health administration, public affairs, and related areas.\n\nThe University of California at Irvine, Program in Public Health, Department of Population Health and Disease Prevention, has the largest enrollment of undergraduate majors in Public Health, with about 1,500 students including ~1,000 in the Bachelor of Science in Public Health Sciences, and another ~500 students in the Bachelor of Arts in Public Health Policy (2014). UC Irvine also offers a minor in Public Health for students of other majors.\n\nThe Council on Education for Public Health includes undergraduate public health degrees in the accreditation review of public health programs and schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56385880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56385880", "title": "Bernard Richards", "text": "Bernard Richards\n\nProf. Bernard Richards FBCS, FIMA, FIHRIM, FRAMS is a British computer scientist and an Emeritus Professor of Medical Informatics at the University of Manchester, England.\n\nRichards studied mathematics and physics for his bachelor's degree. For his master's degree, he worked under the supervision of Alan Turing (1912–1954) at Manchester as one of Turing's last students, helping to validate Turing’s theory of morphogenesis. Reflecting on Turing's death at the age of 80 during Turing's centenary year in 2012, Richards commented: \"The day he died felt like driving through a tunnel and the lights being switched off\".\n\nAfter Turing died, Richards changed his research area and worked for his doctorate, studying an aspect of optics, resulting in a Royal Society paper with his supervisor, Professor Emil Wolf. This provided a detailed description of the diffraction of light through a convex lens. After this, Richards moved into the area of medicine, producing an important paper on hormone peaks in the menstrual cycle. Later he worked on expert systems aimed at use in open heart surgery and also intensive care units.\n\nRichards became Professor of Medical Informatics at Manchester University and latterly Emeritus Professor within the School of Computer Science.\n\nRichards has been Chairman of the BCS Health Informatics Committee and in 1998 was made BCS Fellow of the Year for Services to Medical Informatics. He was the first President of the Institute for Health Record and Information Management (IHRIM), a member of the International Federation of Records Officers (IFRO). In Europe, he is an Honorary Member of the Ukrainian Association for Computer Medicine of the Ukraine, the Romanian Academy of Medical Science, the John von Neumann Computer Society of Hungary, the Czech Medical Informatics Society, and the Polish Medical Informatics Society. Richards was presented with an award by Queen Elizabeth II for contributing a morphogenesis memento to a time capsule during 2012, Alan Turing's centenary year.\n"}
{"id": "3045683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3045683", "title": "Cannabis in Canada", "text": "Cannabis in Canada\n\nCannabis in Canada is legal for both recreational and medicinal purposes. Medicinal use of cannabis was legalized nationwide in 2001 under conditions outlined in the Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations, later superseded by the Access to Cannabis for Medical Purposes Regulations,<ref name=\"Access to Cannabis for Medical Purposes Regulations (SOR/2016-230)\"></ref> issued by Health Canada and seed, grain, and fibre production was permitted under licence by Health Canada. The federal \"Cannabis Act\" came into effect on October 17, 2018 and made Canada the second country in the world, after Uruguay, to formally legalize recreational use of the plant. Whereas decriminalization would simply remove laws restricting the use of cannabis products, as has been implemented in many countries, legalization allows for the taxation of legally produced cannabis. Canada is the first G7 and G20 nation to do so.\n\nCannabis was banned in Canada from 1923 until regulated medical cannabis became legal in 2001. In response to popular opinion, the legislation to legalize cannabis for recreational use (\"Cannabis Act\", Bill C-45) was passed by the House of Commons of Canada in late November 2017; it passed second reading in the Senate of Canada on March 22, 2018. On June 18, 2018, the House passed the bill with most, but not all, of the Senate's amendments. The Senate accepted this version of the Act the following day.\n\nPrime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that recreational use of cannabis would no longer violate criminal law as of October 17, 2018. This legalization comes with regulation similar to that of alcohol in Canada, limiting home production, distribution, consumption areas and sale times. The process removed cannabis possession for personal consumption from the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act; while implementing taxation and strengthen punishment of those convicted of either supplying cannabis to minors, or of impairment while driving a motor vehicle.\n\nDrug prohibition in Canada began with the Opium Act of 1908. Historians often point to the 1922 publication of Emily Murphy's \"The Black Candle\" as the catalyst for the addition of the three extra drugs to a list of prohibited substances. Murphy's anti-drug screeds were widely read and helped spread the drug panic across the country, historian Catharine Carstairs disputes that the 7 page chapter, \"Marahuana -- a new menace\" inspired the inclusion of cannabis as a restricted substance. Cannabis was made illegal when it was added to the country's Confidential Restricted List in 1923 under the \"Narcotics Drug Act Amendment Bill\" after a vague reference to a \"new drug\" during a late night session of the House of Commons on April 23, 1923. According to one government official, cannabis was outlawed after the Director of the Federal Division of Narcotic Control returned from League of Nations meetings where the international control of cannabis was broached. Cannabis did not begin to attract official attention in Canada until the later 1930s, and even then it was minimal; the first seizure of cannabis by Canadian police was not until 1937. Commercial cultivation of industrial hemp was forbidden in 1938. Between 1946 and 1961, cannabis accounted for only 2% of all drug arrests in Canada.\n\nIn the 1960s, cannabis began to rapidly increase in Canada. For the entire period of 1930–1946, the RCMP recorded only 25 cannabis arrests, but this rose to 2,300 cases in 1968, and to 12,000 cases in 1972. In response to the increased popularization of marijuana and the increase in criminal charges against middle class citizens, the government formed the Royal Commission of Inquiry in the Non-Medical Use of Drugs, usually referred to as the Le Dain Commission, in 1969 to investigate the non-medical cannabis use in Canada. The commission's 1972 report recommended removing criminal penalties for cannabis possession, though not legalization, per se. While the subsequent two federal governments discussed the recommendation, no steps were actually taken to change legislation.\n\nIn 2001, the country started a medical marijuana program, managed by Health Canada. The program originally offered people access to home grown cannabis or sales directly from Health Canada. This was replaced with new regulations that set up a more traditional commercial sector for cannabis cultivation and distribution in 2013.\n\nOn September 15, 2017, Canada's first licence for recreational cannabis distribution was awarded to Organigram Holdings (market name OGI:CVE) by the province of New Brunswick. This marked a milestone for marijuana distribution in Canada.\n\nAfter he was elected Prime Minister in 2015, the first significant step that Justin Trudeau took was the creation of a federal-provincial-territorial task force to discuss a jointly suitable process for the legalization of cannabis possession for casual use. This Task Force on Marijuana Legalization and Regulation released a 106-page report to the public on December 13, 2016, with various recommendations. Those were provided for consideration by the federal and provincial governments, but they were not binding. Sales for recreational use will not commence until July 1, 2018, at the earliest, based on legislation (Bill C-45, the \"Cannabis Act\") passed by the federal government in June 2018.\n\nSubsequently, the substance will remain controlled: sold only at government licensed retailers, and grown only by licensed producers. During the federal election campaign, the Liberals had promised \"new, stronger laws\" against sales to minors, driving while impaired, and sales through channels not specifically authorized to do so.\n\nUntil October 17, 2018, cannabis remained illegal (except with a physician's prescription, for medical purposes), as Trudeau reminded police forces across the country in late 2016. He insisted that they \"enforce the law\": criminally charge illegal storefront dispensaries. Trudeau also explained that the intent of the legislation is not to encourage recreational use of cannabis. The intent is \"to better protect our kids from the easy access they have right now to marijuana [and] to remove the criminal elements that were profiting from marijuana\", he told the \"Toronto Star\" on December 2, 2016.\n\nPolice forces took the Prime Minister seriously, and in March 2017, raided five locations of the Cannabis Culture retailer in Toronto, one in Vancouver, and another in Hamilton, Ontario. They also searched homes in Toronto, Stoney Creek, and Vancouver. Multiple charges were laid against Marc Emery and Jodie Emery, owners of Cannabis Culture, a company that franchised pot dispensary shops. The couple was convicted in December 2017 of drug-related charges—including possession of marijuana for purpose of trafficking—fined, and placed on two years of probation. Drug-related charges were laid against three others who were also subsequently convicted.\n\nToronto Police had told the media that the unlicensed cannabis dispensaries are linked to \"high-level drug traffickers ... often tied to organized crime, given the amount of marijuana sold\".\n\nFirst Nations chiefs attending the Assembly of First Nations widely agreed that the distribution of cannabis on reserve lands should be governed by First Nations governments, and not provincial legislation.\n\nAfter the House of Commons passed Bill C-45, it was sent to the Senate. On June 1, 2018, the Senate passed an amendment to C-45 outlawing cannabis \"brand-stretching\". The amendment, which passed 34–28, outlaws the sale and display of cannabis-related merchandise and makes it difficult to publicly promote cannabis once legalized. Do note that this amendment was rejected House of Commons when the bill was returned to the House of Commons by the Senate and does not appear in the final version of C-45 that received Royal Assent.\n\nOn June 19, 2018, the Senate finally passed the bill, without the amendment rejected by the House of Commons, and the Prime Minister announced the effective legalization date as October 17, 2018. Canada became the second nation (after Uruguay) to legalise the drug.\n\nAs expected, the use of cannabis for recreational purposes became legal across the country on October 17, 2018, under the \"Cannabis Act\" which \"creates a legal and regulatory framework for controlling the production, distribution, sale and possession of cannabis in Canada\", according to a Government of Canada web site. Persons aged 18 or older can possess up to 30 grams of dried or “equivalent non-dried form” in public. Adults are also allowed to make cannabis-infused food and drinks \"as long as organic solvents are not used to create concentrated products.\" Each household is allowed to grow up to four cannabis plants from \"licensed seed or seedlings\", although Quebec and Manitoba chose to be excluded from this aspect of the legislation. Each province set its own procedures for retail sales, and these vary as to ownership or retail outlets (by the provincial government or private enterprise) but all include an option for on-line sales. Since marijuana is illegal in the US per federal legislation, the government warned that \"previous use of cannabis, or any substance prohibited by U.S. federal laws, could mean that you are denied entry to the U.S\". Canadians travelling within the country (but not internationally) are allowed to carry up to 30 grams of cannabis. Naturally, driving under the influence of drugs remained illegal.\n\nSince 1997, public opinion polls have found an increasing majority of Canadians agree with the statement, \"Smoking marijuana should not be a criminal offence\". A June 2016 national poll conducted by Nanos Research showed that 7 in 10 Canadians are in favour of legalization.\n\nBy 2006, a high percentage of the population was using cannabis, in spite of the risk of police charges for possession, and especially for selling it without the required licence, according to statistics gathered by the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH). Nearly half (44%) of Canadians admit to trying it at least once; no statistics were provided as to the percentage who use it frequently. The CAMH report also indicates that by the last year of high school, nearly half (46%) of Ontario students admit to having used marijuana in the past year. The CAMH discussion includes warnings about the negative effects of cannabis. Other groups also warn about the risk, including the Canadian Automobile Association whose 2016 poll indicated, \"Almost two thirds of Canadians are concerned that roads will become more dangerous [due to impairment by the drug] with the legalization of marijuana\". An October 2016 national poll by Forum suggests that about five million adult Canadians now use cannabis at least once a month; this is expected to increase by 19 percent after marijuana is legalized. Canaccord Genuity analysts Matt Bottomley and Neil Maruoka released a research note with a more moderate estimate of the number of users. They predicted that approximately 3.8 million persons will be recreational users (presumably on a frequent basis) by 2021. A report by Canada's Parliamentary Budget Officer (PBO) is more bullish, estimating that by 2021 some 5.2 million adults may be users.\n\nGrowers that currently produce marijuana are licensed by Health Canada under the Access to Cannabis for Medical Purposes Regulations (ACMPR). As of late 2016, there were 36 authorized producers across the country in Health Canada's list. Sales were allowed only by mail order, but by late 2017, some major retailers had applied for a change in the rules to allow them to also sell the product. By December 21, 2017, 82 licences had been issued under the ACMPR, but not all of the producers had been licensed to begin selling medical marijuana. The vast majority of these companies were located in Ontario. At that time, no licences had been issued yet for producing recreational cannabis; the producers already licensed were hoping to be added to that list after it is created. Between February 1 and early April 2018, some 89 additional applicants were approved as cannabis growers by Health Canada; at the time, the agency was considering the merits of another 244 applications.\n\nStatistics indicate that, as of September 2016, nearly 100,000 Canadians had bought medical marijuana legally, a significant increase over the 30,537 in September 2015, presumably since it is becoming a mainstream drug and since supplies are becoming more readily available. According to a StatsCan estimate, Canadians may have spent roughly CAD$6.2 billion (US$4.8 billion) on marijuana in 2015, although the agency admits that there is no scientific method of accurately measuring illegal consumption.\n\nThe report by the Task Force on Marijuana Legalization and Regulation had recommended that recreational cannabis growers should be licensed at a federal level, separately from the producers of medical marijuana. The expert panel also recommended that the process ensure competition by licensing both large and small producers. While licensing should be federal, each of the provinces should be allowed to determine how and where the product will be sold.\n\nAfter the plans for legalisation became well-publicized, industry analysts reported that some of the producers who had been licensed for medical marijuana, including Aurora Cannabis, were already increasing the capacity of their operations for future sales to the distributors of recreational cannabis.\n\nA report in late November 2017 by Ernst & Young suggested that there would be mergers, leaving fewer players in this industry. \"Many believe that consolidation is inevitable, leaving a few large players post-legalization.\" Also in late 2017, Deloitte predicted that the recreational cannabis market would be worth close to $23 billion. Lately, US Alcohol companies have been showing interest in the Cannabis business in Canada. US Cannabis producers are afraid that Canada is going to be the prime dominator in the market. \n\nAs of late October 2018, the largest of the producers licensed by the federal government was Canopy Growth Corporation of Smiths Falls, Ontario; the company was renamed from Tweed Marijuana Inc. in September 2015 after it purchased competitor Bedrocan. Subsequent acquisitions for this corporation included Vert Medical, the German cannabis distributor MedCann, and a majority interest in Quebec's Groupe H.E.M.P.CA Inc. In early December 2016, Canopy announced a friendly takeover bid of another Canadian producer, Mettrum Health (CVE:MT), in anticipation of an expanding market after marijuana is legalized for recreational purposes in 2017. In addition to sales in the domestic market, Canopy Growth began selling medical cannabis products in Germany and Brazil in 2016. The company was described as \"one of the world's — and Canada's first — premier exporters of marijuana\" by the \"Financial Post\".\n\nCanopy Growth's patient base increased by approximately 260 percent and revenue by about 180 percent in the calendar year 2016 vs. 2015. The increase would have been even greater, but the company had difficulty maintaining adequate stock in some high-demand categories such as mid-to-high THC level products and oils. A report by the \"Financial Post\" indicated that inventory shortfalls have been a problem for many of Canada's licensed medical marijuana producers; this could worsen after recreational marijuana is legalized. When the year end report was released, Canopy Growth's share price fell seven percent to $12.09 on the Toronto Stock Exchange (ticker WEED). The December 2016 year end report indicated a profit for the first time in the company's history (3 million in net income). Previously, Canopy Growth had been operating at a loss ($3.3 million in 2015, for example), partly because it was using funds to acquire competitors in preparation for significantly increased cannabis demand by the recreational use market expected to commence in early 2018. In early December 2016, Reuters' survey of four market analysts had indicated a consensus rating of Buy in early December 2016.\n\nIn August 2018, Constellation Brands announced that it would invest an additional US$4 billion in Canopy Growth Corporation in advance of the legalization of recreational marijuana. The investment will increase its share in the company from 9.9% to 38%. Canopy Growth president Bruce Linton said the additional funds would be used for international expansion and that future marketing plans included products such as cannabis-infused beverages and sleep aids. After the Constellation deal was announced, the market value of Canopy Growth rose to nearly US$12 billion, \nroughly $3.7 billion greater than that of the closest competitor Aurora Cannabis.\n\nEarlier in 2018, the second largest producer, Aurora Cannabis, bought competitor CanniMed in advance of the anticipated growth in the market and announced a plan to acquire MedReleaf. It would have distribution agreements in a number of countries, including Germany, Italy, Brazil, and Australia.\n\nBy late September, Tilray, Inc. of Nanaimo, a subsidiary of Privateer Holdings had reached a market capitalization about US$10 billion making it the third largest cannabis company in the world, after Canopy and Aurora.\n\nUnder the \"Cannabis Act\" passed in 2018, only producers licensed by the government are allowed to grow the product. As of early October 2018, there were at least 117 such licensed producers.\n\nAlthough consolidation of the cannabis market in Canada is expected to the point where “a handful of companies will control the majority of the market”, many claim that there is an important need for smaller craft cannabis producers that are “more able to adapt to consumer demand”. The craft cannabis industry has been compared to the craft beer industry – smaller producers who are able to experiment more and provide a wider variety to the larger companies, which will likely try to please as many consumers as possible. However, the difference is that the relatively new rise of craft brewers in a mature market is different than craft cannabis starting at the same time as larger producers (for recreational cannabis). This will give larger producers the edge in the short term since those companies have more money.\n\nThe expected buy-in for craft cannabis producers is perhaps slightly higher than craft brewers, but there are other barriers to launching a craft cannabis company including the ability to market product. Cannabis marketing will be closer to tobacco marketing (which is prohibited in Canada with few limited exceptions) cannabis will be sold in plain packaging and traditional advertising such as TV commercials will be prohibited. They will likely not even be able to mention things that could be important to the consumer such as where it’s grown (i.e., “buy local”) and if it’s organic. \n\nFurther, simply selling their product may be difficult. The supply chain is still not entirely clear as it is in the beer industry, but there are ways for craft cannabis producers to sell their product through selling to other micro-processors – and potentially larger producers – or applying for a micro-processing licence themselves. As of the legalization date, consumers cannot sample or purchase product directly from a craft cannabis producer’s storefront as you can with craft beer or buy cannabis from a stall on the side of the road as you might from a farmer. However, British Columbia’s Public Safety Minister Mike Farnsworth said that the province wouldn’t rule out farmers selling direct to consumer.\n\nStill, most craft cannabis producers are optimistic. One craft cannabis producer told The Globe and Mail that “I think there is a real opportunity there for small independents.” Craft cannabis producers are seen by some as the “artisans of the industry” who will experiment with strains, increase variety, and produce a quality product that it can sell at a premium.\n\nAt times in 2016, and in 2017, the stock prices of some producers increased significantly as retail investors became more bullish on this segment of the market but then dropped at a later date. Between September and mid-November 2017, the typical stock cannabis producer's value increased by 54%, according to Vahan Ajamian of Beacon Securities Ltd. The share price of Canopy Growth, for example, more than doubled in price during the fall of the year, but declined in mid-November while others, such as Aurora Cannabis, increased at the same time during another volatile period. At the time, analysts could not predict the long-term outcome for any company. A report by Investopedia on November 15 said that most cannabis stocks \"can be labeled as penny stocks, so any investment may carry a significantly higher risk component.\" One of the few Canadian marijuana stocks to trade on a major exchange (NASDAQ) and not as a penny stock was the late comer Neptune Wellness Solutions. Neptune converted its krill oil extraction plant to focus on CBD oil.\n\nMarket analysts Matt Bottomley and Neil Maruoka of Canaccord Genuity believe that approximately 3.8 million persons will be recreational users (presumably on a frequent basis) by 2021 with a potential for $6-billion of sales. These analysts predicted that after legalization, there may be a \"shortfall of supply in the near term\" (until about 2020 perhaps) which is likely to increase the product's selling price. Their prediction was based on the government's strict standards which have resulted in few producers becoming licensed under the current system. Presumably the government will relax the qualification standards to increase the number of producers who will be licensed after cannabis is legalized for recreational use but no such plans have been revealed to date.\n\nSome industry observers had warned that \"speculation and investor frenzy are fuelling many of the gains\". Other observers pointed out that marijuana company values are high but point out that \"the players have real products with real sales that are growing, unlike the many dot-com firms that fed that bubble.\" Nonetheless, \"cannabis investors chasing the Big Green Rush are playing a dangerous game,\" according to Dan Nicholls, Vice President of the Marijuana Index in Los Angeles. \"For a first-time investor, stocks are always risky,\" he said. \"You can lose everything you put in, potentially, especially in a market like this.\" Some market analysts voiced concern about the long-term retail price of recreational marijuana; they predict that it will decline over time after legalization because of competition and bulk sales to provincial governments. According to the CEO of Cronos Group, \"It's not going to be 80 or 90 per cent margins forever. There will be a very rapid price compression\" after the initial shortage of product is resolved.\n\nThe probability of reducing prices as producers' costs decline due to economies of scale was confirmed by the head of the federal-provincial task force in late 2017. The government also intends to keep the net cost to the consumer adequately low so as to virtually eliminate the need for an illegal market but \"not so low as to create an incentive for increased use\".\n\nCertain investment counsellors also warned clients that marijuana stocks are very risky. According to Barry Schwartz, chief investment officer at Baskin Wealth Management in Toronto, \"It's not the type of investment we'd ever make\" adding that he would advise anyone who asks about investing in this sector, \"don't do it\". In spite of the significant increases in the stock prices of several cannabis producers in early November 2017, few institutional investors were buying such shares because of the uncertainty as to which would succeed and which would fail.\n\nIn November 2017, business columnist David Olive of the \"Toronto Star\" strongly recommended against investing in this industry. His rationale includes these aspects: there are too many producers for the small Canadian market (\"close to 100 players\"), retail prices will drop significantly, reducing margins, and the expense ratio is excessively high, so most companies will not be profitable. \"Only the most risk-tolerant and speculative-minded investors should go anywhere near it,\" he warned.\n\nThe promise of legalization boosted the price of shares in companies such as Aurora Cannabis Inc. (ACB.TO), Canopy Growth Corp. (WEED.TO 2.00%), Aphria Inc. (APH.TO), VIVO Cannabis (VIVO-V.TO) and MedReleaf Corp. (LEAF.TO) in November and December 2017. A market analyst explained that the confidence was based on the fact that legal marijuana will not be more expensive, with tax included, than the black market product; this should ensure a sizeable market for producers. Advertising will probably be used to boost sales. The federal task force had recommended that restrictions on ad content should be similar to those for tobacco ads, extremely stringent. The cannabis producers' lobby group, however, was proposing the gentler restrictions that apply to alcohol producers: not to appeal to youth and to promote only the brand, not the recreational use of the product.\n\nAs the stock markets approached the year-end closing in 2017, the price of major cannabis stocks surged but Bloomberg News reported that \"some analysts are skeptical about demand projections, and betting against the stocks is difficult to do\" because there was \"almost no stock left to short, and some investors who have taken short positions in the market have lost money\", quoting Ihor Dusaniwsky of S3 Partners (investment analysts) in New York. The BCMI Cannabis Report warned that the boom could \"end badly\", with the bubble bursting as other industries' \"manias\" had burst in the past.\n\nOn January 4, 2018, a plunge in prices was being reported by Bloomberg. An update by Forbes in mid-July 2018 indicated that year to date, the Canadian Marijuana (stock) Index had declined by 19.1%, but had gained 132% over the previous year.\n\nIn August 2018, Constellation Brands (a beer, wine and spirits producer) announced that it would invest an additional C$5 billion (US$3.8 billion) in Canopy Growth. After the Constellation deal, the market value of Canopy Growth rose to US$11 billion. \n\nOn September 20, 2018, Tilray Inc. (TLRY:US on NASDAQ) of Nanaimo, a subsidiary or Privateer Holdings, became the world's largest cannabis company in terms of market capitalization, although 2017 revenue was only US$20 million. However, the share price dropped significantly over the next few days, reducing Tilray's market cap to about US$10 billion vs. the earlier $19+ billion value. \n\nIn mid-September, Tilray, Inc. of Nanaimo, a subsidiary of Privateer Holdings became the most valuable cannabis company in the world for a few days, after a 77% increase in its stock price. Days later, that increase had been wiped out, making its market capitalization about US$10 billion vs. the earlier $19+ billion value. \n\nExperts interviewed by Global News in mid-September continued to warn about market volatility. Marc Lustig, Chairman and CEO of CannaRoyalty, for example, said this: \"A lot of money has been made that is for sure, but a lot of companies are probably overvalued and it’s risky for investors. Do your research first\".\n\nFrom the early planning stages, the government indicated that the substance would be taxed. An estimate in late 2016 suggested revenues of $618 million per year from a federal tax initially, and eventually, billions, according to a report by Canada's Parliamentary Budget Officer (PBO). (A recent government estimate indicates that the illegal marijuana industry is worth $7 billion per year.) The Task Force report recommended that high-potency cannabis (with a high THC content) be taxed at a higher level than the conventional product to make it less attractive to consumers.\n\nThe federal government had announced in October 2017 that its budget would include $546 million over five years to prepare the \"legal framework to strictly regulate and restrict access to cannabis\" and another $150 million over six years to enforce the restrictions on drug-impaired driving. Health Canada and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police will receive a share of the funds. Of this amount, municipal and indigenous police services should receive $81 million to offset the increased cost of training and resources.\n\nOn November 10, 2017, the government announced that the federal excise tax, to be shared 50/50 with the provinces and territories, should not exceed $1 a gram or 10 per cent of the producer's price, whichever is higher. The government's press released did not specify higher tax on high-potency products. In December 2017, after demands from provinces for a higher percentage, a two-year agreement was signed to provide a full 75% of the tax; as well, the maximum to be taken by the federal government would be $100 million per annum, with any excess paid to the provinces and territories. The final retail price of the product will include provincial sales tax, ranging from 5% to 15% depending on the province. This arrangement will be discussed again in December 2018 to determine whether the five months of experience indicated that the 75/25 tax splitting scheme had proved to be appropriate.\n\nIn provinces where householders would be permitted to grow their own plants, no tax would be charged on such cannabis.\n\nIn Canada, regulation varies province to province, though there are some general rules regarding promotion, packaging, and advertising. Adult-use cannabis can only be sold in packages of a single colour without graphics other than the logo and a health warning. Cannabis companies in Canada will not be allowed to promote themselves through TV commercials, billboards, or glossy magazine ads, sponsor people or events, or put their names on sports and cultural facilities. To address these advertising challenges, some brands are connecting with popular media influencers like Gene Simmons and the Trailer Park Boys.\n\nThe \"Cannabis Act\" (2018) gave provinces the power to determine the method of distribution and sale and whether cannabis use will be legal inside private residence or homes if children are present in the home 12 or more hours in a day, and each will also establish the legal age for cannabis use. An excise tax will be levied, to be shared with the provinces and territories. According to the federal government, estimated annual sales will be $4 billion (US $3.2b).\n\nThe \"Cannabis Act\" (2018) also allows householders to grow up to four cannabis plants, but Quebec and Manitoba announced that they would not permit this option. New Brunswick is specifying indoor growing only in a separate locked space, but will also allow outdoor growing for plants that are up to 1.52m (5 feet) high. \n\nMost provinces have set the minimum age to purchase and consume cannabis to 19 years old, although Alberta and Québec have set it to 18 years old in line with their alcohol and tobacco laws.\n\nUnder the newly elected Coalition Avenir Québec government, the Deputy Minister for Health in October 2018, Lionel Carmant announced that the Government will tighten the rules on cannabis consumption, including increasing the legal age to consume to 21 from 18.\n\nAfter it was known that the federal legislation would give provinces the power to determine the method of distribution and sale, Ontario announced that the Liquor Control Board of Ontario would be the sole vendor, but not through the 651 stores that sell alcoholic beverages. Entirely distinct Ontario Cannabis Store outlets would be opened in select municipalities. The product would also be marketed through online sales, also by the public entity.\n\nIn mid-August 2018 however, under the Progressive Conservative government that had been elected in the 2018 Ontario general election, an entirely new plan was formulated. Finance Minister Vic Fedeli and Attorney General Caroline Mulroney announced that after October 17, 2018, the provincial Ontario Cannabis Retail Corp. will handle online cannabis sales and wholesale distribution to private retailers, which are expected to be in place by April. The Corporation will market the product to the public, strictly online. After approximately April 1, 2019, retail stores will open, operated by the private sector while the Corporation will be the wholesaler; it will also continue on-line sales as previously, and it will provide an on-line age-verification system, with 19 as the minimum age. Municipalities will be allowed to opt out of sales via brick-and-mortar stores by January 19, 2019. The province will provide $40 million over two years to help municipalities cover the expenses related to legal recreational cannabis.\n\nAs of late August 2018, New Brunswick, Quebec, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island had decided to sell cannabis through government-owned stores, as liquor is sold.\n\nBritish Columbia planned to sell cannabis through some government stores but would allow private sector retail locations as well. Manitoba, Newfoundland and Labrador and Saskatchewan have decided to allow private retail sales with liquor control authorities responsible for regulating private stores. All of the provinces, except Manitoba, had some plan for online sales direct to consumers. Quebec planned to open 20 stores, while Newfoundland and Labrador, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island will have 24, 20, 12 and 4 retail locations, respectively. Saskatchewan planned to allow 51 and Alberta will allow up to 250 stores. There will be no cap on the number of private retail stores to be allowed throughout Ontario; applications will be vetted by the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario which will also inspect the shops after they open. The legislation was expected to state that producers and their affiliates will get a licence to operate only a single retail location at a production facility. \"We want to make sure that the market is not dominated by one or two parties,\" according to Attorney General Caroline Mulroney. However, the wording of the plan left some questions that would still need to be answered. Each province set its own procedures for retail sales, and these vary as to the ownership of retail stores (government or private enterprise) but all provinces decided to offer an option for on-line sales.\n\nIn early September 2018, the Canadian government released a directive stating that service members will be allowed to use cannabis following legalization in October, but with restrictions on use depending on the individual's duties. Per the new regulations, service members may use legal cannabis, but must cease usage:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19818976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818976", "title": "Cytomegalic inclusion body disease", "text": "Cytomegalic inclusion body disease\n\nCytomegalic inclusion body disease (CIBD) is a series of signs and symptoms caused by cytomegalovirus infection, toxoplasmosis or other rare infections such as herpes or rubella viruses. It can produce massive calcification of the central nervous system, and often the kidneys.\n\nCytomegalic inclusion body disease is the most common cause of congenital abnormalities in the United States. It can also cause pneumonia and other diseases in immunocompromised patients, such as those with HIV/AIDS or recipients of organ transplants.\n\nVarious systems are affected.\nThe cells of the infected organ show intranuclear inclusion giving the nucleus classical owls eye appearance.\nFurther tests like ELISA can be used to detect the antigen.\n\nThe cells of the infected organ show intranuclear inclusion giving the nucleus classical owls eye appearance.\nFurther tests like ELISA can be used to detect the antigen.Virus can be grown in cell culture also.\n"}
{"id": "7386005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7386005", "title": "Dance4Life", "text": "Dance4Life\n\nDance4life is an international youth initiative to raise awareness and promote prevention of HIV/AIDS.\n\n\ndance4life was founded in 2003 by two international marketers - Dennis Karpes and Ilco van der Linde - who were struck by the force of the HIV pandemic. They shared a passion to use their commercial expertise to turn this problem around. They envisioned a world united in pushing back HIV and AIDS, with one message: start dancing, stop AIDS.\n\ndance4life has become an international youth movement. Its purpose is to create social change and empower young people to take action to push back HIV and AIDS. dance4life is about the belief that HIV and AIDS can and will be stopped the moment young people have the power to stand up and say no to unsafe sex. \nStarting in three countries, and having expanded to 30 countries in 2012, dance4life has grown and shaped into a worldwide youth movement.\n\nSince then dance4life has achieved the participation of 600,000 young teens in the \"heart connection tour\", 300,000 agents4change adolescents, the distribution of 3 million dance4life condoms to youth, over €3 million raised for local HIV prevention projects in the Global South, and a worldwide hit known as the \"dance4life (song)\" anthem by Tiësto featuring Maxi Jazz between 2003 and 2006.\nIt has been estimated that by the Saturday before World AIDS Day 2014, the foundation will have created a total of one million agents4change. An agent4change is a young person who has participated in the dance4life \"schools4life\" and is involved in pushing back HIV and AIDS.\n\nIn 2004, during the first dance4life episode, thousands of people in the Netherlands, South Africa and Indonesia participated. dance4life chose a song called \"Breathe Sunshine\" by Dino Sofos as their official anthem. The song was also remixed by DJ Paul van Dyk, released on vinyl and CD worldwide and was played by Paul van Dyk and at all the dance4life world events over the course of 2004 and 2005.\nAs of May 2006, DJ Tiësto is the official worldwide ambassador for the dance4life foundation. He recorded a track with Maxi Jazz (of Faithless) of the same name. The song peaked for five weeks in the Dutch Singles Chart, peaking at number five in Belgium, six in Finland and also charting in the UK and Germany.\n\nIn 2009 supermodel Doutzen Kroes became an ambassador. She visited dance4life projects in Tanzania, The United States, The Netherlands and Thailand and raised money through auctions for dance4life.\n\nSchools4life has nothing to do with books, preaching or homework, instead it is about dance, music, media, events, drumming, videos and taking the responsibility of living a life under protection. Using the language of people younger than 25 years the school begins with the Heart Connection Tour in which each school is visited by the dance4life tour team; The team is composed of dancers, musicians, peer educators and young people living with HIV. Students later take the responsibility by participating in \"skills4life\" which deals with the teaching of what is HIV and what it does to your body, other topics are its prevention, sexuality, drug abuse, and the rights of the teens, communication, and decision making. \"Act4life\" stands for taking action as a volunteer, fund raising or the spreading of the information as it is important to make people aware. To conclude schools4life, at the dance4life event which takes place every two years on the Saturday before World AIDS Day, on November 29, 2008 the agents of change are present at the event live or via satellite.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212818", "title": "Eating", "text": "Eating\n\nEating (also known as consuming) is the ingestion of food, typically to provide a heterotrophic organism with energy and to allow for growth. Animals and other heterotrophs must eat in order to survive — carnivores eat other animals, herbivores eat plants, omnivores consume a mixture of both plant and animal matter, and detritivores eat detritus. Fungi digest organic matter outside their bodies as opposed to animals that digest their food inside their bodies. For humans, eating is an activity of daily living. Some individuals may limit their amount of nutritional intake. This may be a result of a lifestyle choice, due to hunger or famine, as part of a diet or as religious fasting.\n\nMany homes have a large eating room or outside (in the tropics) kitchen area devoted to preparation of meals and food, and may have a dining room, dining hall, or another designated area for eating. Some trains have a dining car.\n\nMost societies also have restaurants, food courts, and food vendors so that people may eat when away from home, when lacking time to prepare food, or as a social occasion (dining club). At their highest level of sophistication, these places become \"theatrical spectacles of global cosmopolitanism and myth.\" At picnics, potlucks, and food festivals, eating is in fact the primary purpose of a social gathering. At many social events, food and beverages are made available to attendees.\n\nDishware, silverware, drinkware, and cookware come in a wide array of forms and sizes.\n\nPeople usually have two or three meals a day regularly. Snacks of smaller amounts may be consumed between meals. Doctors in the UK, recommend three meals a day ( with between 400-600 kcal per meal), with four to six hours between. Having three well-balanced meals (thus half of the plate with vegetables, 1/4 protein food as meat, ... and 1/4 carbohydrates as pasta, rice, ...) will then account to some 1800–2000 kcal, which is the average requirement for a regular person.\n\nThe issue of healthy eating has long been an important concern to individuals and cultures. Among other practices, fasting, dieting, and vegetarianism are all techniques employed by individuals and encouraged by societies to increase longevity and health. Some religions promote vegetarianism, considering it wrong to consume animals. Leading nutritionists believe that instead of indulging oneself in three large meals each day, it is much healthier and easier on the metabolism to eat five smaller meals each day (e.g. better digestion, easier on the lower intestine to deposit wastes; whereas larger meals are tougher on the digestive tract and may call for the use of laxatives. However, psychiatrists with Yale Medical School have found that people who suffer from Binge Eating Disorder (BED) and consume three meals per day weigh less than those who have meals that are more frequent. Eating can also be a way of making money (see competitive eating). In jurisdictions under sharia law, it may be proscribed for Muslim adults during the daylight hours of Ramadan.\n\nNewborn babies do not eat adult foods. They survive solely on breast milk or formula. Small amounts of pureed food are sometimes fed to young infants as young as two or three months old, but most infants do not eat adult food until they are between six and eight months old. Young babies eat pureed baby foods because they have few teeth and immature digestive systems. Between 8 and 12 months of age, the digestive system improves, and many babies begin eating finger foods. Their diet is still limited, however, because most babies lack molars or canines at this age, and often have a limited number of incisors. By 18 months, babies often have enough teeth and a sufficiently mature digestive system to eat the same foods as adults. Learning to eat is a messy process for children, and children often do not master neatness or eating etiquette until they are 5 or 6 years old.\n\nEating positions vary according to the different regions of the world, as culture influences the way people eat their meals.\nFor example, most of the Middle Eastern countries, eating while sitting on the floor is most common, and it is believed to be healthier than eating while sitting to a table.\n\nCompulsive overeating, or emotional eating, is \"the tendency to eat in response to negative emotions\". Empirical studies have indicated that anxiety leads to decreased food consumption in people with normal weight and increased food consumption in the obese.\n\nMany laboratory studies showed that overweight individuals are more emotionally reactive and are more likely to overeat when distressed than people of normal weight. Furthermore, it was consistently found that obese individuals experience negative emotions more frequently and more intensively than do normal weight persons.\n\nThe naturalistic study by Lowe and Fisher compared the emotional reactivity and emotional eating of normal and overweight female college students. The study confirmed the tendency of obese individuals to overeat, but these findings applied only to snacks, not to meals. That means that obese individuals did not tend to eat more while having meals; rather, the amount of snacks they ate between meals was greater. One possible explanation that Lowe and Fisher suggest is obese individuals often eat their meals with others and do not eat more than average due to the reduction of distress because of the presence of other people. Another possible explanation would be that obese individuals do not eat more than the others while having meals due to social desirability. Conversely, snacks are usually eaten alone.\n\nThere are many physiological mechanisms that control starting and stopping a meal. The control of food intake is a physiologically complex, motivated behavioral system. Hormones such as cholecystokinin, bombesin, neurotensin, anorectin, calcitonin, enterostatin, leptin and corticotropin-releasing hormone have all been shown to suppress food intake.\n\nThere are numerous signals given off that initiate hunger. There are environmental signals, signals from the gastrointestinal system, and metabolic signals that trigger hunger. The environmental signals come from the body’s senses. The feeling of hunger could be triggered by the smell and thought of food, the sight of a plate, or hearing someone talk about food. The signals from the stomach are initiated by the release of the peptide hormone ghrelin. Ghrelin is a hormone that increases appetite by signaling to the brain that a person is hungry.\n\nEnvironmental signals and ghrelin are not the only signals that initiate hunger, there are other metabolic signals as well. As time passes between meals, the body starts to take nutrients from long-term reservoirs. When the glucose levels of cells drop (glucoprivation), the body starts to produce the feeling of hunger. The body also stimulates eating by detecting a drop in cellular lipid levels (lipoprivation). Both the brain and the liver monitor the levels of metabolic fuels. The brain checks for glucoprivation on its side of the blood–brain barrier (since glucose is its fuel), while the liver monitors the rest of the body for both lipoprivation and glucoprivation.\n\nThere are short-term signals of satiety that arise from the head, the stomach, the intestines, and the liver. The long-term signals of satiety come from adipose tissue. The taste and odor of food can contribute to short-term satiety, allowing the body to learn when to stop eating. The stomach contains receptors to allow us to know when we are full. The intestines also contain receptors that send satiety signals to the brain. The hormone cholecystokinin is secreted by the duodenum, and it controls the rate at which the stomach is emptied. This hormone is thought to be a satiety signal to the brain. Peptide YY 3-36 is a hormone released by the small intestine and it is also used as a satiety signal to the brain. Insulin also serves as a satiety signal to the brain. The brain detects insulin in the blood, which indicates that nutrients are being absorbed by cells and a person is getting full. Long-term satiety comes from the fat stored in adipose tissue. Adipose tissue secretes the hormone leptin, and leptin suppresses appetite. Long-term satiety signals from adipose tissue regulates short-term satiety signals.\n\nThe brain stem can control food intake, because it contains neural circuits that detect hunger and satiety signals from other parts of the body. The brain stem’s involvement of food intake has been researched using rats. Rats that have had the motor neurons in the brain stem disconnected from the neural circuits of the cerebral hemispheres (decerebration), are unable to approach and eat food. Instead they have to obtain their food in a liquid form. This research shows that the brain stem does in fact play a role in eating.\n\nThere are two peptides in the hypothalamus that produce hunger, melanin concentrating hormone (MCH) and orexin. MCH plays a bigger role in producing hunger. In mice, MCH stimulates feeding and a mutation causing the overproduction of MCH led to overeating and obesity. Orexin plays a greater role in controlling the relationship between eating and sleeping. Other peptides in the hypothalamus that induce eating are neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AGRP).\n\nSatiety in the hypothalamus is stimulated by leptin. Leptin targets the receptors on the arcuate nucleus and suppresses the secretion of MCH and orexin. The arcuate nucleus also contains two more peptides that suppress hunger. The first one is cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), the second is α-MSH (α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone).\n\nPhysiologically, eating is generally triggered by hunger, but there are numerous physical and psychological conditions that can affect appetite and disrupt normal eating patterns. These include depression, food allergies, ingestion of certain chemicals, bulimia, anorexia nervosa, pituitary gland malfunction and other endocrine problems, and numerous other illnesses and eating disorders.\n\nA chronic lack of nutritious food can cause various illnesses, and will eventually lead to starvation. When this happens in a locality on a massive scale, it is considered a famine.\n\nIf eating and drinking is not possible, as is often the case when recovering from surgery, alternatives are enteral nutrition and parenteral nutrition.\n\n"}
{"id": "59033262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59033262", "title": "Elitour", "text": "Elitour\n\nElitour is the Greek Medical Tourism Council. It is associated with the Greek National Tourism Organization.\n\nDr Giorgos Patoulis is the President of the council. He is also President of the Athens Medical Association and the Central Union of Municipalities of Greece. He is a proponent of Greece's thermal natural resources, and says that \"Thermal tourism is a dominant lever in the National Health Tourism Strategic Plan.\"\n\nMr. Petros Mamalakis is the General Secretary.\n\nIt organised a Health Tourism Day in March 2018.\n\nIt assisted in organising the International Medical Travel Journal Medical Travel Summit in Athens in May 2018. and a Medical Tourism Symposium in November 2018 which was addressed by Giorgos Tzilalas, the General Secretary of Tourism Policy and Development and Mr. G. Giannopoulos the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health and was intended to facilitate collective effort with the formulation of a national strategy.\n\nThe board held a meeting in April 2018, shortly after their election with Elena Kountoura the Minister of Tourism to coordinate a strategy for the organized development of thematic tourism products.\n\nIt has organised the World Institute of Greek Doctors in order to mobilise the support of Greek expatriate doctors.\n"}
{"id": "14669242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14669242", "title": "Grisi siknis", "text": "Grisi siknis\n\nGrisi siknis (in Miskito language, from the English, means \"crazy sickness\") is a contagious, culture-bound syndrome that occurs predominantly among the Miskito People of eastern Central America and affects mainly young women. It is also known as \"grisi munaia\", \"Chipil siknis\" and \"Nil siknis\". More recently cases occurring amongst people of Spanish descent have also been reported.\n\nAccording to Dr. Phil Dennis of Texas Tech University, \"grisi siknis\" is typically characterized by longer periods of anxiety, nausea, dizziness, irrational anger and fear, interlaced with short periods of rapid frenzy, in which the victim \"lose[s] consciousness, believe[s] that devils beat them and have sexual relations with them\" and runs away.\n\nOften the outbreak of the syndrome is violent in nature, with victims grabbing weapons, attacking unseen enemies and/or hurting themselves.\n\nThe causes of grisi siknis are unknown, says the American Psychology Association, but the prevailing Western theory calls this syndrome a \"psychological disorder due to stress, upheaval and despair\".\n\nTraditional Miskito belief, says Dennis, holds that grisi siknis is the result of evil spirits or black sorcerers. While Western medicine typically has no effect on those afflicted with the disease, the remedies of Miskito herbalists or witch doctors are often successful in curing grisi siknis.\n\nSymptoms of grisi siknis vary, but there is a distinct set of central characteristics. Most of the victims are young girls from 15 to 18 years old. The attacks are prefaced by headaches, dizziness, anxiety, nausea, irrational anger and/or fear. During the attack, the \"victim loses consciousness\" and falls to the ground, subsequently running away, which running Dennis calls \"perhaps the most distinctive defining characteristic of grisi siknis behavior\". The victim may view other people as devils, feel no pain for bodily injuries and have absolute amnesia regarding their physical circumstances. Some grab machetes or broken bottles to wave off unseen assailants. Other victims are reported to have performed superhuman feats, vomited strange objects such as spiders, hair and coins and spoken in tongues. In some cases the semi-conscious victim will speak the names of the next to be infected, although it is not always accurate. It is still highly contagious. During attacks, victims report mental visions in which devils or evil spirits come for them, and have sex with them. These visions also include anything from horrifying nightmares to pleasant experiences, and many anthropologists claim these are sexual experiences. This is a disputed fact, as not all cases involve sexual encounters. Attacks occur anywhere from multiple times a day to rarely when one is infected with grisi siknis. A person typically remains with the disease for several months to a year without medical attention, although some cases have been documented to recur for much longer.\n\nJoseph Westermeyer, Head of Psychiatry at the University of Oklahoma, states that a culturally bound syndrome is defined as \"certain trance-like disturbances [that] occur with unusual frequencies in certain societies\". These syndromes, he says, actually occur in a wide variety of cultures separated by great distance that have similar symptoms including \"fear, anxiety, amnesia, aimless escape, psychophysiological symptoms, social withdrawal, behavioral deviance and nondirected violence\". However, these symptoms are not confined to culturally bound syndromes, as others, such as \"personality disorder, neurasthenia, crisis/judgment disorders, organic brain syndromes, drug-induced delirium, major depression, mania, schizophreniform and schizophrenia\" might constitute the true psychiatric diagnosis.\" Because of these cross-cultural symptoms, it is argued that these syndromes are not necessarily unique \". and that applying the term ‘culturally bound’ to them hampers science’s ability to explore them on the same level as other psychological problems. Outbreaks of these symptoms are sporadic and epidemic.\" Some culturally bound syndromes, in addition to grisi siknis, include:\n\nAlthough grisi siknis behaves like a virus, researchers have not been able to trace anything irregular in the blood samples of victims.\n\nAccording to the American Psychiatry Association, pibloktoq, \"frenzy\" witchcraft, chakore and amok, are all, like grisi siknis, classified as \"running\" syndromes, in that they contain \"sudden high-level activity, [a] trance-like state, potentially dangerous behavior in the form of running [and] exhaustion, sleep [and/or] amnesia\". It is generally applied to purposeless roving.\n\nIn addition, Dr. Richard Castillo, as quoted by Dr. C. George Boeree, believes that amok (with very similar symptoms to grisi siknis), pibloktoq, latah, \"falling out\", \"indisposition\", and the \"fits\" are all related to impulse control disorders, and thus are associated with trichotillomania, compulsive gambling, pyromania, and kleptomania in Western medicine.\n\nAccording to the American Psychiatric Association, a Western medical condition similar in many aspects to culturally bound syndromes, particularly the \"running\" syndromes, of which grisi siknis is part, is dissociative (or psychogenic) fugue. In any fugal state, a person appears normal, but has amnesia or identity forgetfulness. Dissociative fugue is distinguished by impulsive travel and amnesia, identity uncertainty, stress, and impediment to normal social function, all of which must not be influenced by substance intake. It is most often related to intense emotional stress and occurs randomly. However, some argue that \"running\" syndromes are really not dissociative fugue, and have no proper Western medical classification. Others contend that associating culturally bound symptoms with known ailments severely limits the discovery of new psychiatric disorders in folk culture. Edgardo Ruiz, PhD at the University of Pittsburgh argues that grisi siknis does not correlate with Western scientific cultural perspectives, and the cross-cultural translation of symptoms is an inaccurate device wherewith to understand the disease.\n\nMiskito tradition, according to Dennis, holds that grisi siknis is caused by possession by evil spirits. This belief stems from the combination of traditional Native American animism. and Miskito Christian idea of the devil. When epidemic outbreaks of the disease occur, the Miskito hold that it is the result of an imbalance with spirits, says Nicola Ross, a reporter for \"The Walrus\" magazine, which predicament they believe to be caused by a dilman or evil sorcerer.\n\nThere is no definitively known cause of grisi siknis, although there are some theories which attempt to explain its origin. Although it has not discovered organic cause, says Dennis, grisi siknis still \"follow[s] the classic model for contagious disease\". Dennis claims that grisi siknis is the source of the emotionally volatile Miskito culture, saying \"it is clear that grisi siknis is related to emotional upset, worry, fear and general anxiety\", while microorganisms, if involved, are intermediate. Dr. Ronald C. Simons, professor emeritus of psychiatry and anthropology at Michigan State University, as quoted by Nicola Ross in \"The Walrus\" magazine, upholds this argument, proposing that grisi siknis is caused by poverty and stress among the Miskito. Culturally bound syndromes, Simons says, are often strongly influenced by behavior and experience and have become a local way of expressing misfortune. Dr. Wolfgang Jilek, of the University of Columbia’s psychiatry department, also quoted by Ross in \"The Walrus\", calls culturally bound syndromes \"real\" despite a general lack of evidence for organic causes. They are primarily the result of trauma and stress, Jilek claims, that end in mental dissociation problems. Susan Kellogg, Associate Professor and Chair of the History Department at the University of Houston, says that grisi siknis is the result of the cultural \"physical and emotional stresses\" that Miskito women endure. Shlomo Ariel, Co-Director of the Integrative Psychotherapy Center in Ramat Gan, Israel, says that such disorders are the product of the culture, delineates acceptable coping mechanisms for dealing with external or internal changes. In a typical homeostatic function, Ariel says, \"emotional or behavioral disorders in the individual are defined as such by the culture\", which culture subsequently imposes treatment in order to restore equilibrium. Grisi siknis can be considered a ritualized behavior associated with the adolescent to adult transition among the Miskito, says Mark Jamieson, professor of social anthropology at the University of Manchester. Girls in Miskito culture, claims Jamieson, are faced with the culturally inconsistent task of attracting a husband sexually while remaining safe and pure to maintain societal status quo. The contradictory familial pressures to both protect and marry off the daughter adds to this. Thus, says Shlomo, \"the syndrome may be viewed as a safety valve\" to maintain equilibrium between these conflicting pressures. Miskito girls express transitional sexuality through the syndrome while maintaining social purity, with the culture holding the victims blameless for their actions while attacked by the disease.\n\nGrisi siknis is generally only cured by traditional Miskito healing methods, according to \"The Journal of the American Botanical Council\". In treating the ailment, the Miskito typically follow a hierarchy of remedies, turning first to home-based remedies, second to modern health facilities and finally to curandero or witch doctors, the latter particularly, if evil spirits are believed to be involved. These healers use an assortment of vapor baths, anointing, teas and potions, all of which are organically derived. According to Dennis, the Miskito healers use a variety of undisclosed steamed herbal remedies that are generally more successful than any Western medicine. However, the cures can be counteracted, Dennis says, by exposure to dead people, pregnant women and various meats.\n\nCases of grisi siknis were registered in Nicaragua in March 2009 in Puerto Cabezas and Siuna where many students of the National Institute of Technology and other schools, suffered attacks. Most of the victims were girls. The Miskito people argued that it was due to the action of black sorcerers to oblige the people to pay the expensive cures. Some scholars in the country conclude that it is due to the extreme poverty that the Miskito people endure and that was worsened by Hurricane Felix of September 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "35324602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35324602", "title": "Health in São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "Health in São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nThere was a resurgence of malaria in São Tomé and Príncipe in 2010, but the exact cause is unknown. Female life expectancy at birth was 65.1 years in between 2005 and 2010, and male life expectancy at 62.8 for the same time period. Healthy life expectancy at birth was at 64.7 years in 2011.\n\nAccording to WHO, São Tomé and Príncipe is also home to the largest documented amount of iron-deficiency anemia amongst any country's population.\n\nA Cuban medical team of seven doctors, nurses and other health workers is working on the main island, with occasional visits to Príncipe.\n\nGovernment health expenditure per capita was at US$90.73 (current US$) in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "17306382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17306382", "title": "Hereditary hyperbilirubinemia", "text": "Hereditary hyperbilirubinemia\n\nHereditary hyperbilirubinemia refers to the condition where levels of bilirubin are elevated, for reasons that can be attributed to a metabolic disorder.\n\nAn example is Crigler-Najjar syndrome.\n\nUGT1A1 gene mutations causes the condition. As a result, there can be reduced functionality of the bilirubin-UGT enzyme. Eventually it causes unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia and jaundice as substance accumulates in the body due to the reduced ability of the enzyme.\n"}
{"id": "7562669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7562669", "title": "Hospital emergency codes", "text": "Hospital emergency codes\n\nHospital emergency codes are coded messages often announced over a public address system of a hospital to alert staff to various classes of on-site emergencies. The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to staff while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital. Such codes are sometimes posted on placards throughout the hospital or are printed on employee identification badges for ready reference.\n\nHospital emergency codes have often varied widely by location, even between hospitals in the same community. Confusion over these codes has led to the proposal for and sometimes adoption of standardized codes. In many American, Canadian, New Zealand and Australian hospitals, for example \"code blue\" indicates a patient has entered cardiac arrest, while \"code red\" indicates that a fire has broken out somewhere in the hospital facility.\n\nIn order for a code call to be useful in activating the response of specific hospital personnel to a given situation, it is usually accompanied by a specific location description (e.g., \"Code red, second floor, corridor three, room two-twelve\"). Other codes, however, only signal hospital staff generally to prepare for the fallout of some external event such as a natural disaster.\n\nAustralian hospitals and other buildings are covered by Australian Standard 4083 (1997) and many are in the process of changing to those standards.\n\n\nCodes used in British Columbia, prescribed by the British Columbia Ministry of Health.\n\n\nCodes in Alberta are prescribed by Alberta Health Services.\n\n\nIn Ontario, a standard emergency response code set by the Ontario Hospital Association is used, with minor variations for some hospitals.\n\n\nIn 2000, the Hospital Association of Southern California (HASC) determined that a uniform code system is needed after \"three persons were killed in a shooting incident at an area medical center after the wrong emergency code was called.\" While codes for fire (red) and medical emergency (blue) were similar in 90% of California hospitals queried, 47 different codes were used for infant abduction and 61 for combative person. In light of this, HASC published a handbook titled \"Healthcare Facility Emergency Codes: A Guide for Code Standardization\" listing various codes and has strongly urged hospitals to voluntarily implement the revised codes.\n\nIn 2003, Maryland mandated that all acute hospitals in the state have uniform codes.\n\nIn 2008, the Oregon Association of Hospitals & Health Systems, Oregon Patient Safety Commission, and Washington State Hospital Association formed a taskforce to standardize emergency code calls under the leadership of the Dr. Lawrence Schecter, Chief Medical Officer, Providence Regional Medical Center Everett. After both states had conducted a survey from all hospital members, the taskforce found many hospitals used the same code for fire (code Red); however, there were tremendous variations existed for codes representing respiratory and cardiac arrest, infant and child abduction, and combative person. After deliberations and decisions, the taskforce suggested the following as the Hospital Emergency Code:\n\nIn 2015, the South Carolina Hospital Association formed a work group to develop plain language standardization code recommendations. Abolishing all color codes was suggested.\n\n\nNote: Different codes are used in different hospitals.\n\n\"Code blue\" is generally used to indicate a patient requiring resuscitation or in need of immediate medical attention, most often as the result of a respiratory arrest or cardiac arrest. When called overhead, the page takes the form of \"Code blue, [floor], [room]\" to alert the resuscitation team where to respond. Every hospital, as a part of its disaster plans, sets a policy to determine which units provide personnel for code coverage. In theory any medical professional may respond to a code, but in practice the team makeup is limited to those with advanced cardiac life support or other equivalent resuscitation training. Frequently these teams are staffed by physicians (from anesthesia and internal medicine in larger medical centers or the emergency physician in smaller ones), respiratory therapists, pharmacists, and nurses. A code team leader will be a physician in attendance on any code team; this individual is responsible for directing the resuscitation effort and is said to \"run the code\". \n\nThis phrase was coined at Bethany Medical Center in Kansas City, Kansas. The term \"code\" by itself is commonly used by medical professionals as a slang term for this type of emergency, as in \"calling a code\" or describing a patient in arrest as \"coding\" or \"coded\".\n\nIn some hospitals or other medical facilities, the resuscitation team may purposely respond slowly to a patient in cardiac arrest, a practice known as \"slow code\", or may fake the response altogether for the sake of the patient's family, a practice known as \"show code\". Such practices are ethically controversial, and are banned in some jurisdictions.\n\n\"Plan blue\" was used at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City to indicate arrival of a trauma patient so critically injured that even the short delay of a stop in the ER for evaluation could be fatal; \"plan blue\" was called out to alert the surgeon on call to go immediately to the ER entrance and take the patient for immediate surgery. \n\n\"Doctor\" codes are often used in hospital settings for announcements over a general loudspeaker or paging system that might cause panic or endanger a patient's privacy. Most often, \"doctor\" codes take the form of \"Paging Dr. Sinclair\", where the doctor's \"name\" is a code word for a dangerous situation or a patient in crisis, e.g.: \"Paging Dr. Firestone, third floor,\" to indicate a possible fire on the floor specified.\n\nSpecific to emergency medicine, incoming patients in immediate danger of life or limb, whether presenting via ambulance or walk-in triage, are paged locally within the emergency department as \"Resus\" [ri:səs] codes. These codes indicate the type of emergency (general medical, trauma, cardiopulmonary or neurological) and type of patient (adult or pediatric). An estimated time of arrival may be included, or \"now\" if the patient is already in the department. The patient is transported to the nearest open trauma bay or evaluation room, and is immediately attended by a designated team of physicians and nurses for purposes of immediate stabilization and treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34840861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34840861", "title": "Hugo Stephenson", "text": "Hugo Stephenson\n\nHugo Stephenson (born 22 March 1974) is an Australian doctor, biotech services entrepreneur and founder of MediGuard, Health Research Solutions and MedSeed. Hugo is best known for his work promoting drug safety research and consumer health awareness.\n\nAfter graduating medicine from the University of Melbourne in 1997, Hugo started a PhD in clinical decision support at Monash University. He dropped out to start MedSeed, a clinical decision support software venture. MedSeed was acquired in 2000 by eHealthcare Asia - then a listed division of Quality HealthCare Asia Ltd.\n\nHugo founded Health Research Solutions (HRS) in 1999, a biotechnology services company that used the internet to manage the communication and data capture required for late phase clinical trials. HRS was able to use emerging internet technologies to conduct large observational studies and registries much faster and more cost-effectively, specializing in multinational late phase projects involving large patient numbers. These technologies also allowed HRS to conduct studies using doctors who had no research experience - helping researchers collect safety and outcomes data that more accurately reflected real world practice. Health Research Solutions was acquired by Quintiles in 2002, and Hugo relocated to Princeton, NJ to run Quintiles' global late phase businesses.\n\nIn 2004, Hugo wrote \"Strategic Research: A Practical Handbook to Phase IIIB and IV studies\". In 2005 Hugo became responsible for Quintiles' global late phase and drug safety operations. Hugo continued to support young internet start-ups during this period, advising companies such as AddThis prior to its acquisition by Clearspring in 2008. Through these experiences, Hugo became interested in consumers' growing use of the internet to access health information, and the potential to draw from models used by other industries to improve drug safety research and communications.\n\nIn 2007, with support from Quintiles, Hugo founded iGuard.org, an internet-enabled alert system that offered patients rapid alerts in the event one of their medications was the subject of a recall, or was found to have an interaction with another drug they were taking. In return for this service, patients would provide ongoing online feedback about drug effectiveness and side effects. iGuard was renamed MediGuard in 2010 as part of its international expansion to the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Australia. As of December 2011, MediGuard has more than 2.6M users, representing the largest patient driven data collection initiative in the world.\n\nHugo has been a guest medical expert on Good Morning Philadelphia, and was voted one of the \"100 most inspiring people\" by PharmaVoice Magazine in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "17997817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17997817", "title": "Intensive Care Foundation", "text": "Intensive Care Foundation\n\nThe Intensive Care Foundation is a charity that is dedicated to improving the care of critically ill patients by raising funds for vital clinical research as well as educating health professionals responsible for intensive care.\n\nThe Foundation's overall aim is to improve the number and quality of lives saved within an intensive care unit each year.\n\nIntensive care teams rely on the latest research to ensure they can give the best life saving treatment to their patients. To date the Foundation has provided 52 grants to Australian and New Zealand research projects totalling more than $1.7 million since 1999. In 2007 almost a quarter of a million was granted.\n\nLaunched in 2000, the Intensive Care Appeal is a major fund-raising event held annually in Australia and New Zealand to create awareness and raise funds by selling wristbands and key tags – in 2008 a four-coloured pen with a safety pull-apart lanyard will be introduced.\n\nThe theme for the 2008 Appeal is \"Keep the Beat\" with rock legend Jimmy Barnes being the face of the Appeal. The Appeal will run from 14 to 27 April with Intensive Care Day taking place on Friday 18 April. Intensive Care Day gives ICUs across Australia and New Zealand the chance to celebrate the miracle of intensive care, the theme for the day is Keep the Beat – Rock On!\n\nThe Appeal merchandise is sold in ANZ branches throughout Australia, Souvlakihut stores in Victoria, Jesters Pie stores throughout New Zealand and ICUs across Australia and New Zealand. The Foundation also has support from volunteers who help out with the Appeal every year.\n\nThe Foundation aims to raise the awareness and profile of intensive care throughout the community, highlighting the miracle work that intensive care doctors, nurses and researchers perform as a part of their every day job.\n\nThe Intensive Care Foundation was formed by the Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Society (ANZICS) in 1990.\n\nA legally independent charity with tax-exempt status, the Foundation operates in both Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe Intensive Care Foundation has a fully constituted Board of Trustees consisting of senior medical and corporate members; a Sydney and Melbourne Corporate Committee and an independent Scientific Committee. The Corporate Committee members volunteer their time to provide invaluable advice and support to events, business and financial matters for the Foundation.\n\nThe Scientific Committee is headed by an Executive Team with representatives from the intensive care community. They are responsible for rigorously reviewing Research Grant Applications and advising the Board on the selection of research projects for funding.\n\nThe Intensive Care Foundation has a number of pharmaceutical and medical companies who support it financially. These companies understand the importance of the Foundation's mission - to fund live saving research in intensive care. Their financial support covers the majority of administrative costs which means that every public dollar donated goes towards Intensive Care Research.\n\nIntensive Cooperative Members are: \n"}
{"id": "9253629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9253629", "title": "International Medical Commission on Bhopal", "text": "International Medical Commission on Bhopal\n\nThe International Medical Commission on Bhopal (IMCB) was established in 1993 to organise medical responses to the 1984 Bhopal disaster (India).\n\nThe immediate scientific and medical response to the 1984 Bhopal disaster constituted an extraordinary pulling together of hospitals, medical personnel and social services in the area. Coping with a disaster of this scale was unheard of anywhere in the world, and there was widespread admiration for those who responded, often risking their own lives in the process.\n\nHowever, when the long term after effects began to appear, it was obvious that the social and legal climate was inadequate since there was little experience in dealing with a major environmental disaster. Scientific and medical personnel needed access to accident-related and toxicologic information to understand the causes and potential consequences of the disaster. Union Carbide, the primary repository of this information, faced with lawsuits and the prospect of bankruptcy, closed down its channels of communication. On the other hand, the extreme sensitivities of the local and national government bodies towards all aspects of the disaster, coupled with the lack of expertise and funds, resulted in an inadequate response on India’s part to meet the urgent health care and social recovery needs of the community. Whereas local health professionals and the interested scientific community abroad expected a flood of information from a disaster of this magnitude, only a trickle resulted.\n\nThese transnational political and legal ramifications threw a veil of secrecy around the disaster and obstructed the discovery of vital medical and toxicologic information. The medical community was often frustrated in its attempts to understand the links between gas exposure and health and devise appropriate treatment strategies. As an example, ignorance about whether the main poison, methyl isocyanate, could decompose to deadly cyanide gas, led to years of acrimonious debate on the merits of treating the gas victims for cyanide poisoning.\n\nRecognising the dire need of the gas victims, the Permanent Peoples' Tribunal met in 1992 and recommended that an international medical commission provide an in-depth independent assessment of the situation in Bhopal. In 1993, the Bhopal Group for Information and Action (BGIA) made a proposal. The International Medical Commission on Bhopal (IMCB) was thus constituted with 14 professionals from 12 countries who were chosen on the basis of their medical expertise and experience in environmental health, toxicology, neurology, immunology, respiratory medicine and family medicine. Drs. Rosalie Bertell and Gianni Tognoni served as the co-chairpersons of the IMCB. At the request of Carbide gas victim organisations, the IMCB conducted a humanitarian visit to India in January 1994 to contribute in any way possible to the relief of the victims and to suggest ways to in which such catastrophic accidents could be prevented in the future or their effects mitigated. During their stay, the IMCB met with government officials, various disaster experts, hospitals, research teams, local private physicians, biochemists, botanists, various survivor groups, environmental activists and veterinarians.\n\nThe main goals of the IMCB were:\n\n\nThe commissioners divided their work in various groups:\n\nThe IMCB committed itself to a) provide a full report of its findings and recommendations to the Governments of India and Madhya Pradesh, victims’ organisations, and all other interested parties; b) stand ready to assist the government of India and medical colleagues to implement the recommendations of the commission; c) enlist the National Advisory Committee to follow up the initiatives of the commission; d) recommend research studies to be undertaken in India on the long-term effects of the gas exposure, and e) assure the wide circulation of its experience and findings in the professional literature.\n\nThe IMCB publicly condemned Union Carbide and reiterated the company's full liability not only for responsibility in causing the deadly gas leak, but also for the confounding role of its behaviour with respect to pre-accident preventive and exposure mitigating efforts, and the timely and effective application of the appropriate medical measures at the time of the accident. This included the lack of transparency about the composition of the gases released, resulting in the absence of rational methods of care and planning resulting in loss of sight and in some cases life, and creation of suspicion and conflict among professionals and the population. There was also a lack of emergency preparation which would have made the public and professionals aware of the potential toxins inside the plant and how to respond to an accident.\n\nThe government of India also was faulted since no clear guidelines were laid down to determine compensation to the victims resulting in undue delays and aggravation of their health status and/or economic survival. The secrecy surrounding the health studies undertaken by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) may initially have been instituted to protect the litigation process, but in reality made the rational medical treatment and establishment of claims almost impossible. In hindsight, it is clear that the secrecy served no purpose whatsoever and has resulted in non-publication of the information. Moreover, because of the secrecy about the accident itself and the chemicals released, it was difficult for the survivors to document their claims. The Commission also noted an excessive fear among government personnel of bogus claims.\n\nIn fulfilling its commitment, results of the community studies conducted by the IMCB have been communicated to the affected population in the form of public meetings, which provided a forum for the victims to ask questions and provide comments.<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQ4Qbx8czfc> The studies have also been published in various national and international journals so that the scientific community has access to this information.\n\nThe IMCB made the following recommendations:\n\nIt is now well known that persistent and chronic gas-related health effects are present in the Bhopal population. However, the full spectrum of effects is yet to be defined, especially in those exposed as children or in utero, and as manifested in survivor reproductive health. There has been a lack of systematic collection of relevant information in these reproductive effects, and also with respect to cancer development or other chronic illnesses as sequelae of the gas exposure.\n\nRecent investigations have shown that local well water has become contaminated by the improper storage of a large amount of hazardous waste in the facility, or on its grounds. This toxic waste is especially hazardous to those still suffering the effects of direct exposure to the gas.\n\nAs of 2007, the prospects for learning the sequelae of this disaster do not appear to be bright. What is sorely needed is an independent body to coordinate the health care, research, rehabilitation of gas victims, and care for potential effects in their offspring. Instead of the non-directive symptomatic medical treatment that currently exists, clear guidelines and criteria need to be formulated for specific medical conditions such as damage to bronchial tubes, sleep apnea, neuron destruction, etc. Such an effort could be implemented through India's existing health care pyramid. Community-level health units should be developed to serve a maximum of 5000 people each. Local hospitals with multiple departments can be used to provide secondary care. A specialised medical centre dedicated to treatment and research of the more serious problems arising from the gas leak should be established.\n\nThe IMCB believes it is a mistake to simply increase the number of hospital beds in Bhopal. The community has need for more neighbourhood clinics, non-drug respiratory therapy, clean air and water, and sheltered workshops, not for more hospital beds.\n\nThe IMCB has recommended that long-term monitoring of the community for illness and response to treatment be done for several decades. This would include the study of exposed and unexposed areas to observe patterns of illness and death as well as to detect the occurrence of related chronic diseases and the appearance of new diseases. Such an approach needs to be one in which the health professionals involve the community of gas victims as active partners in investigation, provide them with feedback on community health, ensure that their health risks are properly communicated, and thereby enabling an increase in their consciousness, autonomy and self-determination.\n\nDhara and Acquilla critiqued aspects of post-disaster epidemiology which served as obstacles to the conduct of scientific and valid epidemiological investigation.\n\n\nThe Bhopal medical community was faced with 1) the urgent health care needs of the affected community, 2) the non-availability of toxicological and accident-related information, 3) the extreme sensitivity of local and national government bodies toward all aspects of the disaster, 4) lack of expertise, and 5) the lack of funds available to independent researchers to conduct investigations. Faced with lawsuits and the prospect of bankruptcy, Union Carbide’s efforts to keep open channels of communication were highly inadequate to address these issues and were considered by many to be a major human rights violation. In addition, the transnational political and legal ramifications served to throw a veil of secrecy around the disaster, thus impeding the discovery of essential pieces of information. Medical, toxicological, and accident-analysis data were not made public, thereby frustrating the efforts of the medical community to understand the linkage between exposures and health effects and devise appropriate treatment strategies. As an example, the lack of information about whether MIC could thermally decompose to hydrocyanic acid led to years of contentious debate on the merits of treating the gas victims for cyanide poisoning and an unfortunate violation of patient confidentiality.\n\nKoplan et al. indicated that post-disaster epidemiologic studies should accurately estimate exposure to enable correct dose-response relationship modeling. These data are needed for a) identifying ill and exposed persons, b) determining long-term effects, and c) linking exposure and effects for use in litigation and to determine compensation. In the absence of the above modeling, studies on Bhopal victims will suffer from the limitation that the link between exposure and health effects cannot be easily made.\n\nRecognising that Bhopal is a tragic model of an industrial epidemic, members of IMCB have expressed willingness to organise international teams when requested, to provide technical assistance and evaluation of other environmental disasters. Rather than the provision of emergency relief functions, for which there are other organisations such as Medecins sans Frontieres and the Red Cross/Red Crescent, the IMCB envisioned three levels:\n\n\nThe International Bill of Rights includes: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed on 10 Dec 1948; The International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights (1976), and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1976.\n\nThe steps to be taken to achieve the full realisation of this right shall include:\n\nTo protect these rights, an international body, free of industry and government pressures, and competent to advise on health and safety standards, is required to be able to mediate just and equitable resolution and compensation of damage in the case of unanticipated disasters.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6750990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6750990", "title": "International Society of Pharmacovigilance", "text": "International Society of Pharmacovigilance\n\nThe International Society of Pharmacovigilance (ISoP), previously the European Society of Pharmacovigilance (ESOP), is an international non-profit scientific organisation, which aims to foster pharmacovigilance both scientifically and educationally, and enhance all aspects of the safe and proper use of medicines, in all countries. Its official journal is \"Drug Safety\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6044596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6044596", "title": "Journey to Wild Divine", "text": "Journey to Wild Divine\n\nJourney to Wild Divine is a biofeedback video game system promoting stress management and overall wellness through the use of breathing, meditation and relaxation exercises. The graphics and interface resemble \"Myst\". The designers refer to the product as \"biofeedback software\", considering it an entertaining training tool for mind and body health, rather than a \"game\".\n\n\"The Journey to Wild Divine\" is published by Wild Divine, founded in 2001 by Kurt R. Smith and Corwin Bell. The Wild Divine Project’s mission is \"to deliver an affordable, engaging, and effective self-care technology to the health & wellness community.\"\n\nKurt Smith, PhD. is a research scientist specializing in biomedical engineering. A serial entrepreneur, Smith started six medical device startup companies, two of which are now owned by Medtronic. After his tenure with Medtronic, Smith began to pursue a passion \"to provide integrative healing tools and services to people in an effective way\".\n\nCorwin Bell, a game designer, was studying at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Washington when he realized that computer animation was a format that he could use to manifest his ideas and images. After receiving a master's degree in Communications, Bell moved on to work in the movie industry where he did set design and cinematography. Bell turned to working on children’s software, including The Pagemaster for Turner Interactive and Super Safe Kids, a CD tool that teaches awareness of abduction issues in an animated environment. He also became an instructor at the Art Institute of Colorado.\n\nSmith and Bell met and began exchanging ideas while rock climbing in Eldorado Canyon, Colorado when Bell told Smith about an idea he had to combine a computer game with biofeedback in order to help people. They proceeded with this entertainment-based model intended to benefit people by providing both preventive and integrative care.\n\nOther experts who assisted in the development of Journey to Wild Divine’s products include Jean Houston, a pioneer researcher in human development and extending human capacities, and Nawang Khechog, a former Buddhist monk, who’s studied with the Dalai Lama and is one of Tibet’s foremost world music composers and musicians. From the start, Liana Mattulich, M.D., a highly experienced biofeedback expert in Denver, Colorado helped the project see completion. Other experts consulted on the project were Dr. Bob Whitehouse and Sunny Turner.\n\nThe first program in the series, \"The Journey To Wild Divine: The Passage\", comes with a USB-based biofeedback reader. The device attaches to three fingers, and measures heart rate variability and skin conductance level. Heart rate variability measures the amount of variability between heart beats, which has been reported to be associated with various pathologic conditions. Skin conductance level indicates the amount of perspiration on the skin surface, which is a measure of stress in the body.\n\nIn \"The Journey To Wild Divine: The Passage\", users navigate through a series of adventures in a video-game type interface.\n\nThe user must adjust these levels in their body to move through the game. The purpose is to develop meditation skills and to gain greater control of unconscious bodily processes by observing and reacting to the changes in the game's various activities, which reflect the body's current state.\n\nThe second title in this series is \"The Journey To Wild Divine: Wisdom Quest\". \"Wisdom Quest\" also utilizes the same proprietary Iom biofeedback hardware. It retains the same game format while building on the adventure game format.\n\nThe third title, \"Healing Rhythms\", is a 15-step program of deep breathing and meditation, along with the Iom biofeedback hardware. In this program experts in the field of health and wellness including medical doctors Andrew Weil, Deepak Chopra, and Dean Ornish guide the user through 15 separate lessons designed to teach stress management in an easy to use format with no navigation required.\n\nCurrent research suggests that stress management can be beneficial to individuals with a variety of physical and mental ailments including high blood pressure and Raynaud's disease, according to the Association for Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback. Research by EEG Info Research has shown it to be effective for helping individuals with ADD/ADHD, PTSD, autism and chronic pain.\n\nSeveral companies make other in-home, biofeedback stress management devices. \nThese include: emWave (previous name: Freeze-Framer), Stone Biofeedback a computer based software with finger/ear sensor. The pocket-portable version emWave PSR and StressEraser with finger/ear sensor, LED display and sounds. Resperate which is a portable device regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) designed to lower blood pressure.\n\nOther non-biofeedback alternatives used in stress-reduction include meditation, deep breathing, and yoga.\n\n"}
{"id": "16868427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868427", "title": "Lao Red Cross Society", "text": "Lao Red Cross Society\n\nThe Lao Red Cross Society is a humanitarian organization in Laos. It was established in 1955. It has its headquarters in Vientiane.\n\nSince 1992 it has worked extensively at tackling problems with HIV/AIDS in the country and works approximately with 40,000 annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "34340693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34340693", "title": "Liechtenstein constitutional referendum, 2005", "text": "Liechtenstein constitutional referendum, 2005\n\nA constitutional referendum on the subject of abortion was held in Liechtenstein on 27 November 2005. Voters were presented with a \"For Life\" proposal and a counterproposal by the Landtag. For the first time since 1925, a Landtag counterproposal was approved, whilst the \"For Life\" initiative was rejected.\n\nThe \"For Life\" proposal was a citizen initiative, which called for a change to Article 14 of the constitution, with the aim of banning abortion. The article text would be changed from \"The supreme task of the state is to promote the overall welfare of the People.\" to \"The supreme task of the state is the protection of human life from conception to natural death and to promote the overall welfare of the People.\" The initiative collected 1,891 signatures collected between 24 June and 5 August 2005, of which 1,889 were ruled valid, exceeding the threshold of 1,500 required for an initiative to be considered by the Landtag.\n\nThe Landtag voted on the proposal on 21 September, rejecting it by 23 to 2 votes. A counter-proposal developed by the Landtag was approved by 23–2. It involved adding two new sections to Article 27 of the constitution:\n\nAs the proposal involved a constitutional amendment, a second reading was required. This was held on 28 September, when it was again passed by 23 votes to two. The government then set the date for the referendum.\n"}
{"id": "672489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672489", "title": "Lists of hospitals in Oceania", "text": "Lists of hospitals in Oceania\n\nThis is a list of hospitals for each country in Oceania.\n\n"}
{"id": "33731198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33731198", "title": "Medical College Admission Test", "text": "Medical College Admission Test\n\nThe Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) is a computer-based standardized examination for prospective medical students in the United States, Australia, Canada, and Caribbean Islands. It is designed to assess problem solving, critical thinking, written analysis and knowledge of scientific concepts and principles. Prior to 2006, the exam was a paper-and-pencil test; since 2007, all administrations of the exam have been computer-based.\n\nThe most recent version of the exam was introduced in April 2015 and takes 7.5 hours to complete. The test is scored in a range from 472 to 528.\n\nIn the 1920s, dropout rates in US medical schools soared from 5% to 50%, leading to the development of a test that would measure readiness for medical school. Physician F. A. Moss and his colleagues developed the \"Scholastic Aptitude Test for Medical Students\" consisting of true-false and multiple choice questions divided into six to eight subtests. Topics tested included visual memory, memory for content, scientific vocabulary, scientific definitions, understanding of printed material, premedical information, and logical reasoning. The score scale varied from different test forms. Though it had been criticized at the time for testing only memorization ability and thus only readiness for the first two years of medical school, later scholars denied this. In addition to stricter medical school admission procedures and higher educational standards, the national dropout rate among freshman medical students decreased from 20% in 1925–1930 to 7% in 1946.\n\nAdvancements in test measurement technology, including machine scoring of tests, and changed views regarding test scores and medical school readiness reflected the evolution of the test in this period. The test underwent three major changes. It now had only four sub tests, including verbal ability, quantitative ability, science achievement, and understanding modern society. Questions were all in multiple-choice format. Each subtest was given a single score, and the total score was derived from the sum of the scores from the subtests. The total score ranged from 200–800. The individual scores helped medical school admission committees to differentiate the individual abilities among their candidates. Admission committees, however, did not consider the \"understanding modern society\" section to be of great importance, even though it was created to reward those with broad liberal arts skills, which included knowledge of history, government, economics, and sociology. Committees placed greater emphasis on scores on the scientific achievement section as it was a better predictor of performance in medical school.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1948, the test was called the \"Professional School Aptitude Test\" before finally changing its name to the \"Medical College Admission Test\" when the developer of the test, the Graduate Record Office (under contract with the AAMC) merged with the newly formed Educational Testing Service (ETS). In 1960, the AAMC transferred its contract over to The Psychological Corporation, which was then in charge of maintaining and developing the test.\n\nFrom 1962 to 1977, the MCAT retained much of its previous format, though the \"understanding modern society\" section was renamed as \"general information\" due to its expanded content. Handbooks at the time criticized the test as only a measure of intellectual achievement and not of personal characteristics expected of physicians. Admission committees responded to this criticism by measuring personal characteristics among their applicants with various approaches.\n\nDuring phase four, the MCAT underwent several changes. The \"general information\" section was eliminated and a broader range of knowledge was tested. At this point, topics tested included scientific knowledge, science problems, reading skills analysis, and quantitative skills analysis. Individual scores were reported for biology, chemistry, and physics rather than a composite science score, thus six different scores for the whole test were reported. The score scale changed to 1–15 as opposed to 200–800 from previous versions of the test. Cultural and social bias was minimized. Though the AAMC claimed the new version intended to evaluate \"information gathering and analysis, discerning and formulating relationships, and other problem-solving skills,\" no research supported this claim.\n\nIn 1992, the test changed again. Though the test was still divided into four subtests, they were renamed as the verbal reasoning, biological sciences, physical sciences, and writing sample sections. Questions retained the multiple-choice format, though the majority of the questions were divided into passage sets. Passage-based questions were implemented to evaluate \"text comprehension, data analysis, ability to evaluate an argument, or apply knowledge from the passage to other contexts.\" A new scoring scale was also implemented. The total composite score, which ranges from 3–45, is based on the individual scores of the verbal reasoning, biological sciences, and physical sciences, which each have a score range of 1–15. The writing sample, which consists of two essays to be written within 30 minutes for each, is graded on a letter scale from J-T with T being the highest attainable score.\n\nOn July 18, 2005, the AAMC announced that it would offer the paper-and-pencil version of the MCAT only through August 2006. A subset of testing sites offered a computer-based version of the full-length exam throughout 2005 and 2006. A shorter, computer-based version of the test debuted in January 2007. The exam was at that point offered numerous times annually, and scored more quickly.\n\nAlthough many medical schools will not accept MCAT exam scores after three years, this version of the MCAT will continue to be reported by the AAMC until the 2019 AMCAS application cycle.\n\nThe MR5 advisory committee was appointed by AAMC in fall 2008 to conduct the fifth comprehensive review of the MCAT exam and to recommend changes for the new exam set to be released in 2015. The advisory committee had 21 members including medical school deans and administrators, basic and clinical science faculty, pre-health advisors, one medical student and a medical resident. The recommendations determined were also based on responses from 2,700 surveys, over 75 meetings and conferences, and 90 outreach events to solicit input. The recommendations considered the content and format of the MCAT, the resources that should be provided relating to the exam, and the changes that should be made to medical school admissions in general.\n\nTo determine the content that should be tested for the exam, the MR5 committee surveyed medical school faculty, residents, and medical students and asked what concepts entering students need to know to be successful in current and future medical school curricula. Three separate surveys were sent asking about concepts in the natural sciences, research methods, and behavioral sciences. The MR5 committee also consulted various expert committees from within and beyond the AAMC.\n\nThe largest changes in the exam consist of testing in biochemistry, psychology and sociology concepts. The addition of biochemistry material follows survey results placing biochemistry concepts as highest importance for success in future medical school curricula. The addition of behavioral and cultural material was recommended to provide a solid foundation for learning of these concepts in medical school. According to the committee, psychological science should be understood by medical students as an essential aspect of healthcare. The writing sample section was also removed, since data showed that these scores were not used by most admission committees. These changes were revealed in 2012 so that undergraduate premedical advisers studied the MR5 documents to translate tested core competencies into premedical course recommendations at their campuses.\n\nThis version of the MCAT has been administered since March 2015, and is expected to be in place until 2030.\n\nThe exam is offered 25 or more times per year at Pearson VUE centers. The number of administrations may vary each year. 43% of students take the MCAT within one year of graduation, 44% take the exam between one and four years after graduation and 13% sit for the exam five or more years after graduation. Ever since the exam's duration was lengthened to 7.5 hours, the test is only offered in the morning.\n\nThe test, updated in 2015, consists of four sections, listed in the order that they are administered\n\n\nThe four sections are in multiple-choice format. The passages and questions are predetermined, and thus do not change in difficulty depending on the performance of the test taker (unlike, for example, the general Graduate Record Examination).\n\nThe current MCAT consists for four distinct sections that are individually scored. Each section is allotted either 90 or 95 minutes and tests between 50 and 60 questions. Including breaks, the full examination lasts approximately 7.5 hours. The information for each of the science sections is organized into 10 foundational concepts and four Scientific Inquiry & Reasoning Skills. The science passages are guided by Scientific Reasoning and Inquiry Skills identified by the MR5 for medical school success. The Critical Analysis and Reasoning Skills section focuses on three skills, since this section does not require outside knowledge to answer questions.\nThis section tests chemistry and physics in the scope of biological systems, requiring understanding of organic and inorganic chemistry and physics as well as biology and biochemistry. Specifically, this section focuses on the physical principles underlying biological processes and chemical interactions that form the basis of a broader understanding of living systems. Understanding of research methods and statistics are also important to successfully reason through this material.\n\nThe CARS section is similar to verbal reasoning sections providing passages with questions testing reading comprehension. The 500-600 word passages can cover topics ranging from the social sciences to the humanities, sometimes presenting in a convoluted or biased manner requiring the reader to consider what is being written from multiple perspectives. The passages are designed to discuss topics that are unfamiliar to the reader, but success in this section requires strictly using information from the passage without using previously known knowledge.\n\nThis section mainly tests biology and biochemistry but also requires an understanding of organic and inorganic chemistry. Students will have to answer questions about the functions of biomolecules, processes unique to living organisms, and the organization of biological systems. Understanding of research methods and statistics are also important to successfully reason through this material.\n\nThis section tests psychology and sociology so that student can demonstrate their understanding of the behavioral and sociocultural determinants of health. Specific material tested include behavior and behavior change, perceptions of self and others, cultural and social differences that influence well-being and social stratification. Understanding of research methods and statistics are also important to successfully reason through this material.\n\nIn the new MCAT exam, changes have been made not only in the content of the exam, but also in the way in which content is presented on the exam. MCAT questions will require examinees to demonstrate four Scientific Inquiry and Reasoning Skills that have been identified by the MR5 as crucial to success in science and medicine. The first skill is \"Knowledge of Scientific Concepts and Principles\", which requires students to not only recognize and recall scientific information, but also to identify relationships between similar concepts. \"Scientific Reasoning and Problem Solving\" tests the student's ability to relate scientific theories and formulas to presented information to explain findings and draw conclusions. \"Reasoning about the Design and Execution of Research\" requires examinees to show that they can understand science in the context of experiments. The fourth skill of \"Data-based and Statistical Reasoning\" requires students to be able to read graphs and tables and draw conclusion from evidence.\n\nThe test consists of four sections, each scored from 118 to 132 with a median score of 125. The total MCAT score is a sum of the scores from each of the four sections, ranging from 472 to 528 with a median score of 500. Scores are released on a pre-determined date between 30–35 days after the exam date.\n\nThe following are the scores along with their percentiles from test takers from May 1, 2017 through April 30, 2018. MCAT percentiles are updated every year on May 1. The average scaled score was 500.2 with a standard deviation of 10.5.\n\nLike some other professional exams (e.g. the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) or the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT)), the MCAT may be voided on the day of the exam if the exam taker is not satisfied with his or her performance. It can be voided at any time during the exam, or during a five-minute window that begins immediately after the end of the last section. The decision to void can only be based on the test taker's self-assessment, as no scoring information is available at the time.\n\nThe AAMC prohibits the use of calculators, timers, or other electronic devices during the MCAT exam. Cellular phones are also strictly prohibited from testing rooms and individuals found to possess them are noted by name in a security report submitted to the AAMC. The only item that may be brought into the testing room is the candidate's photo ID. If a jacket or sweater is worn, it may not be removed in the testing room.\n\nIt is no longer a rule that students must receive permission from the AAMC if they wish to take the MCAT more than three times in total. The limit with the computerized MCAT is three times per year, with a lifetime limit of seven times. An examinee can register for only one test date at a time, and must wait two days after testing before registering for a new test date.\n\nScaled MCAT exam results are made available to examinees approximately thirty days after the test via the AAMC's MCAT Testing History (THx) Web application. Examinees do not receive a copy of their scores in the mail. Nor are examinees given their raw scores. MCAT THx is also used to transmit scores to medical schools, application services and other organizations (at no cost).\n\nThe average student spent 12 weeks preparing for the MCAT exam spending about 23 hours per week, excluding time taking regular courses.\n\nMost students take some time to study intensely for the exam, since some material covered on the exam may not have been studied in classes. The AAMC provides official study materials for purchase on their website with hundreds of questions written by the developers of the MCAT including three scored practice exams. 74% of students who sat for the MCAT exam used official MCAT Practice exams while only about 40% used question packs and section bank questions written by the AAMC. The official questions supplied online by the AAMC were rated to be most useful by test takers. The AAMC also provides free online preparatory material for the MCAT through Khan Academy, including 1,100 free videos and 3,000 review questions including content review and passage-based questions. About 62% of test takers used these free resources and 83% of them found them to be useful.\n\nAnother popular study option for students is to use MCAT preparatory materials from a commercial company. Many companies provide preparatory classes in-person and online, sets of preparatory books, full-length practice exams, flashcards and many more. 77% of students used commercial preparation books and 67% of students used practice exams published by a commercial company. 85% of test takers in found MCAT prep books to be useful.\n\nAlmost all United Stated medical schools and most Canadian medical schools require prospective students to submit MCAT scores for their applications. In a survey conducted by the AAMC of 130 medical schools, MCAT scores were among the most important metrics used to identify applicants to interview and admit. Furthermore, in a recent survey by Kaplan, 54% of medical schools said that a low MCAT score was \"the biggest application dealbreaker\". Medical school admissions is a holistic process and the AAMC provides recommendations on how MCAT scores should be used in admissions, specifically recommending that MCAT scores should not outweigh an applicant's other materials.\n\nResults from the previous version of the MCAT that was administered between 1992 and 2014 have been studied in relation to academic success in medical school and beyond. Most data suggests that undergraduate grades and MCAT scores can predict scores on USMLE Step exams. Data from a cohort from 14 medical schools' in 1992 and 1993 found that MCAT scores were stronger predictors of USMLE Step scores than undergraduate GPA and were also good predictors for probability of experiencing academic difficulty. Data from students from 119 U.S. medical schools who matriculated between 2001-2004 showed that undergraduate GPA and MCAT total scores predicted unimpeded progress towards medical school graduation better than GPA alone. A third study using data from students from the University of Minnesota Medical School from five graduating classes between 2011-2015, and found that MCAT component scores were significantly associated with USMLE Step 1 and Step 2 scores, although the effect was small. Higher MCAT scores are correlated with membership in the national medical honors society Alpha Omega Alpha (AOA), suggesting that MCAT scores can be useful to identify potential top-performing medical students.\n\nSince the most recent version of the MCAT exam was only released in 2015, insufficient years have passed to determine correlation between MCAT scores and medical school benchmarks. The AAMC plans to use medical school data from 2017-2021 to determine the predictive ability of the new MCAT. The data will be collected from 18 medical schools who have agreed to collect data from students from entry to graduation including academic performance, USMLE Step exam scores, time to graduation and graduation rates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46721106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46721106", "title": "Menstrual Hygiene Day", "text": "Menstrual Hygiene Day\n\nMenstrual Hygiene Day (MHD, MH Day in short) is an annual awareness day on May 28 to highlight the importance of good menstrual hygiene management (MHM). It was initiated by the German-based NGO WASH United in 2014 and aims to benefit women and girls worldwide. The 28th was selected to acknowledge that 28 days is the average length of the menstrual cycle. \n\nIn low-income countries, girls’ choices of menstrual hygiene materials are often limited by the costs, availability and social norms. Adequate sanitation facilities and access to feminine hygiene products are one part of the solution. Creating a culture that welcomes discussion and makes adequate education for girls is of equal importance. Research has found that not having access to menstrual hygiene management products can keep girls home from school during their period each month.\n\nMenstrual Hygiene Day creates an occasion for publicizing information in the media, including social media. Public information campaigns can help to engage decision-makers in policy dialogue. The day offers an opportunity to actively advocate for the integration of menstrual hygiene management (MHM) into global, national and local policies and programmes.\n\nAn accepted definition of menstrual hygiene management (MHM) is: \n\nThe \"value chain\" related to menstrual hygiene management includes four aspects: awareness, access, use as well as waste management.\n\nThe term “menstrual health” is broader than menstrual hygiene. It encompasses both the menstrual hygiene management practices and the broader systemic factors that link menstruation with health, well-being, gender, education, equity, empowerment, and human rights (in particular the human right to water and sanitation).\n\nMenstrual hygiene day is meant to serve as a platform to bring together individuals, organisations, social businesses and the media to create a united and strong voice for women and girls around the world, helping to break the silence about menstrual hygiene management.\n\nThe objectives of MHD include:\n\nMenstrual Hygiene Day makes audible and visible a growing movement that promotes body literacy and autonomy, as well as gender equality.\n\nThere are currently 410 official partners. These include international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), such as Plan International, SNV, Plan, Water for People, Women in Europe for a Common Future. Further partners are many national and regional NGOs as well as suppliers of menstrual hygiene products, washable menstrual pads and menstrual cups.\n\nFor partners working in developing countries, the day is not only an opportunity to raise awareness, but also to strengthen government accountability related to MHM issues. For example, in 2015 the Ministry of Health in Kenya launched a national MHM strategy. Kenya, jointly with UNICEF, held a virtual conference on Menstrual Hygiene Management in Schools that same year.\n\nThe hashtag for the 2018 social media campaign was: #nomorelimits.\n\nIn May 2018, the Accra Metropolitan District Assembly in Ghana held Menstrual Health programs in urban poor schools. Over 700 girls attended each program and each received a complimentary packet of sanitary pads.\n\nIn 2017 there were about 350 events in 54 countries. In India alone there were 67 events. These events included educational events in schools, community rallies, concerts to raise awareness, advocacy workshops with governments, product donations.\n\nOn and around 28 May 2015, organisations and individuals from all over the world came together to recognise the second Menstrual Hygiene Day under the theme \"Let‘s end the hesitation around menstruation\". In total, 127 events in 33 countries took place, using the day as an opportunity to engage men and boys as well, link to other important women’s and girls’ issues, advance policy advocacy, reach the marginalised, and challenge societal norms that claim that menstrual periods are shameful or dirty.\n\nMenstrual hygiene management can be particularly challenging for girls and women in developing countries, where clean water and toilet facilities are often inadequate. In addition, traditional cultures make it difficult to discuss menstruation openly. This limits women’s and adolescent girls’ access to relevant and important information about the normal functions of their own body. This directly affects their health, education and dignity. Access to information can be considered a human right. \n\nIn a 2014 study conducted in India, the researchers found that as many as 42% of women who participated in the study did not know about sanitary pads or from where in their anatomy menstruation originated. \"Most of them were scared or worried on first menstruation.\" Worldwide, in 2018, one in three women does not have access to a working toilet at all. Menstrual hygiene management issues have been ignored by professionals in the water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) sector, and in the health and education sectors, too.\n\nPoor MHM may affect the reproductive tract but the specific infections, the strength of effect, and the route of transmission, remain unclear. In India, a majority of girls are at risk for reproductive tract infections (RTI) because of poor MHM and RTI can lead to various disabilities if not treated early on. Reproductive tract infections are the cause of 30–50% of prenatal infection. Due to prejudices surrounding the issue, some women in India do not eat or take showers during their menstruation.\n\nGirls' self-image may be negatively impacted by adverse attitudes towards menstruation.\n\nIn many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, girls can miss up to 5 days of school a month or drop out entirely due to insufficient access to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities and menstrual hygiene products. Improving access to WASH facilities can actually increase girls' attendance at school. A program for school sanitation in Bangladesh increased girls' enrollment at school by 11%.\n\nMenstrual waste is largely ignored in schools in developing countries, despite it being a significant problem. Girls' access to water and sanitation at school is only available at 47% and 46% of all schools globally. Often, school toilets for girls (if they even exist) are missing bins for menstrual waste collection with the result that pads may be spread all around the school compound area. This pollutes the environment and also causes embarrassment for the school girls.\n\nIn the United States, among other countries, girls who are unable to afford feminine hygiene products may miss school in order \"to avoid the embarrassment of staining their clothes.\"\n\nIn low-income countries, girls’ choices of menstrual hygiene materials are often limited by the costs, availability and social norms.\n\nA lack of affordable hygiene products means inadequate, unhygienic alternatives are used, which can present a serious health risk. Menstrual cups offer a long-term solution compared to some other feminine hygiene products because they do not need to be replaced monthly. The quality of the material also makes them a reliable and healthy menstrual hygiene solution, as long as there is access to clean water for washing them.\n\nGirls and women in the workplace often miss work because they don't have access to sanitary materials and places of employment in some countries don't provide resources for women or even have \"proper toilets.\" Women in Bangladesh who work in factories have reported that due to the cost of sanitary products for menstruation which they could not afford, they have resorted to using \"factory-floor rags in place of pads and tampons, leading to dangerous infections and missed work.\"\n\nMenstruation can be a barrier to education for many girls, as a lack of effective sanitary products restricts girls' involvement in educational and social activities. Often they do not attend school due to fear of leaking, shame or embarrassment, period pain or inadequate sanitation facilities that do not allow them to wash or change in privacy. This applies mainly to schoolgirls from low-income families, since disposable hygiene products are a monthly expense that many females simply cannot afford.\n\nAdequate sanitation facilities and access to menstrual hygiene products are just one part of the solution to menstrual taboos that impede women's progress in many developing countries. Knowledge is critical for girls to feel comfortable with menstruation and to gain a positive awareness of their bodies.\n\nEven many low-income and/or homeless girls and women in the inner cities of the United States cannot afford sanitary supplies. Food Banks in New York report that feminine hygiene products are in high demand. Homeless women in the United States face the challenge of not being able to shower or use the communal toilet in homeless shelters as often as they need to in cases where there are restrictions on toilet usage. In New York, proposals to help lower income women access menstrual sanitary supplies includes proposals to remove the sales tax on feminine hygiene products and \"distributing free tampons in public schools.\" Sales tax are levied on menstrual supplies in 36 states. On May 1, 2018 The National Diaper Bank Network, which provides millions of diapers to poor and low income parents and advocates for policy change around basic needs, launched the Alliance for Period Supplies and began distributing free period products through allied organizations across the U.S. Homeless women in other industrialized countries, such as the United Kingdom, face problems affording tampons and sanitary napkins.\n\nDespite the fact that menstruation is a healthy biological process, it is approached with hesitance and misinformation because of deeply-rooted cultural taboos surrounding menstruation.\n\nCultural, religious and traditional beliefs — particularly in developing countries — can lead to restrictions that women or girls face during their period. In some societies, women do not wash their bodies, shower or bathe during menstruation. They may not be allowed to use water sources during menstruation. Even if they have access to toilets, they might not use them because of the fear of staining the toilet bowls (in the case of dry toilets or flush toilets where the flush is not powerful). This impairs the use of menstrual cups compared to pads as the cups are normally emptied into toilets.\n\nExpanding the discussion to include consideration of waste management is part of the attempt to \"normalize\" conversations about menstruation. \n\nIn 2012, several important groups involved in public health began to break the silence on MHM and turn their attention to the issue globally, including grassroots organizers, social entrepreneurs and United Nations agencies.\n\nIn May 2013, WASH United used a 28-day social media campaign, for example on Twitter, called \"May #MENSTRAVAGANZA\" to generate awareness about menstruation and MHM as important considerations within water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) development initiatives. Those involved with the social media campaign, including WASH Advocates, Girls' Globe and Ruby Cup, were encouraged by the positive feedback for the \"May #MENSTRAVAGANZA\" and they decided to create a global awareness day for menstruation.\n\nOn 28 May 2014, many people around the world celebrated Menstrual Hygiene Day for the first time with rallies, exhibitions, movie screenings, workshops and speeches. There were 145 partners involved with the first MHD.\n\nFor 2015, a hashtag campaign on social media lent a light-hearted look at challenging societal norms with the tag #IfMenHadPeriods. The campaign by WaterAid, released in time for Menstrual Hygiene Awareness Day, created videos \"spoof ads\" where men are proud of having their periods and used \"Manpons\" instead of tampons. The campaign helped \"raise awareness about women who don't have access to 'safe water, hygiene and sanitation,' when their monthly visitor comes along.\" Another aspect of the campaign is that it helped bring men into the conversation so that they could \"help tackle the stigma in largely patriarchal societies and encourage women and girls to embrace their cycle with pride instead of shame.\" In Uganda, 2015 celebrations kicked off with a march to Parliament where a charter on MHM was signed and then the march continued to the National theatre for presentations by primary and secondary schools.\n\nMay 28 has symbolic meaning. May is the 5th month of the year and women menstruate an average of 5 days every month. Also, the menstrual cycle averages 28 days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49963233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49963233", "title": "Miniature food", "text": "Miniature food\n\nMiniature food is a kind of replica of food in a much-smaller-than-usual size. Decades before, miniature food was created like other miniature arts. In 2014, a Youtube Channel, Miniature Space, started producing videos that showcased the makings of a variety of miniature meals and dishes prepared with tiny utensils. It established a fanatical trend of miniature food in Japan, then onward toward becoming a worldwide trend. Nowadays, miniature food does not just appear as toys or accessories, but edible food as well. The process of producing the edible miniature food can be recognized as an entertainment to the creators.\n\nFood models first appeared in Japan in 1917. Businesses that produced and sold these food models was set up by Iwasaki Ryuzo in 1932. In the old days, models of food were made from wax. Nowadays, they are mostly made from plastic. As the size of the sample food models showcased by the restaurants in the past were usually much larger than the actual served meals, which looks deceiving to customers. Therefore, businessmen started shrinking the size of the models. Generally delicate and tiny stuffs are called “kawaii” in Japanese, miniature food are produced with the technique of making miniature arts in Japan in the recent decades. A trend of making miniature food was brought up by a Youtubers called Miniature Space and AAAjoken. They decided to cook the tiny items with edible ingredients. More and more videos of the makings of miniature food are uploaded on Youtube thereupon. People started paying attention to the tiny creations. In 2015, a report from a video intelligence firm Tubular Labs indicated that these miniature food videos contributed up to 3% of the total views in the food category.\n\nMiniature food can be either edible or inedible. For the edible part, materials need to be prepared for cooking processes. Real ingredients are required for cooking and food will be cooked by different miniature utensils just like tiny wok, tiny pan and long, tiny and sharp knife. Up to now, there were many successful attempts on creating different kinds of food using miniature utensils, such as strawberry cake, pancakes, and cheeseburgers. The edible miniature foods are cooked by miniature utensils which functioned as the real one, only in a much smaller size. However, regarding the appearance of the miniature food, in order to make it more realistic, sometimes the ingredients will vary from the original recipes. The food may not be cooked by any ceramic cooker.\n\nA match is used for igniting the candle to power the tiny stove. Then the food are to be cut into proper size for cooking.\n\nThe main purposes of edible miniature food is for entertaining people, be it the creators or the viewers. The chef prepares these tiny gourmet whilst the audiences would be watching the process of producing these dishes on different media. There have been many miniature food fanatics uploading cooking tutorials in their own Youtube channel over recent years.\n\nInedible miniature food is food models made from inedible materials, for instance clay and resin. It is more widely and commonly seen comparing to the edible variant as it serves a wider variety of purposes, for instances jewelry, handcraft and little toys. Also, whilst ingredients are constricted in the makings of edible miniature food, there are fewer limitations in the makings of inedibles miniature food hence it opens up more possibilities in terms of what ingredients and what colouring materials are to be used. The food and the utensils are usually made of polymer clay and dry glue. The artists utilize dedicated modelling tools to mold and shape the food, sometimes utensils such as sewing needle or toothpick are also seen in the process of moldings and shapings.\n\nTo produce a miniature gourmet look-alike, first choose the pre-dyed clay in the desired colour. Use your palms to soften the clay and roll the clay to the desired shape. Cook the clay in the oven, let the clay cool down in the oven until it is cool enough to be handled again. After it is cooled, take the razor blade and shave off a tiny pile of white powder from chalk. Spray or paint a layer of Varathane sealer. While the sealer is still wet, pick up some of the white chalk powder with your finger tip and dab it sparingly onto a few areas of the clay. The general shape of the model is thereby finished. Lastly, one may utilize different paints and colouring tools to finish the process.\n\nPeople purchase these tiny creations to decorate their households or workplaces. Some buy miniature foods as presents to others. Fanatics see miniature food as collectible and cherishable gems.\n\nTomo Tanaka, who lives in Osaka, makes items in 1:12 or 1:24 scale for display. He also crafted cookwares, glasses and samurai swords.\n\nMiniature Space, a Youtube Channel, uploads videos of making miniature meals with genuine ingredients, such as quail eggs, chickens, fishes.\n\nCaroline (Tall Tales Productions) makes miniature items in 1:12 scale for film, TV, display and collectors. She makes mini food videos for YouTube as well. \n\nShay Aaron, who is a miniature food jewelry artist, makes his jewelry collections with polymer clay Fimo and other materials such as metals and paper in 1:12 scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44784099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44784099", "title": "Multiple audience dilemma", "text": "Multiple audience dilemma\n\nThe multiple audience dilemma, also known as the multiple audience problem, is a situation that arises when a singular person or group creates multiple images for themselves to present to separate audiences, and then the audiences meet; creating a need to personify different images of the same self without having others figure out what is happening. This might happen through choosing to act in a specific way to convey a personality that matches both images of the self that both audiences are familiar with, as a way of compromising for both audiences without one or both.\n\nOne study conducted in 2000 provides information to support the idea that the multiple audience dilemma is flawed. The study suggests that the task of entertaining multiple audiences at once is difficult and also shows that most participants were more convinced that they had performed a better job then what was actually portrayed. \n\n"}
{"id": "10765114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10765114", "title": "Mutually protected occlusion", "text": "Mutually protected occlusion\n\nIn dentistry, a mutually protected occlusion is an occlusal scheme in which the anterior teeth protect the posterior teeth, and vice versa.\n\nThe anterior teeth protect the posterior teeth by providing for a plane of guidance during excursions, thus allowing the cusps of the posterior teeth to disclude rather than strike one another during lateral or protrusive movements from centric relation. In other words, the posterior teeth have much larger crowns and many more cusps than the anterior teeth. Because posterior crowns are so much wider and possess cuspal projections in various configurations, the cusps of the maxillary teeth and those of the mandibular teeth have an opportunity to bang into each other during chewing, speech or simply meeting together when one bites down. To prevent this from happening, the anterior teeth of each arch will, ideally, be situated so as to come into contact \"before\" the cusps of the posterior teeth do, thus preventing wear on the posterior teeth. This requires less force because the anterior teeth are further from the joint (analogous to stopping a door further from its hinge).\n\nThe posterior teeth protect the anterior teeth by providing a stable vertical dimension of occlusion. While anterior teeth may retain their natural position even after loss of posterior teeth, the masticatory forces will eventually cause the single-rooted anterior to splay, thus leading to a collapsed bite.\n\n"}
{"id": "21958222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21958222", "title": "National Association for Biomedical Research", "text": "National Association for Biomedical Research\n\nThe National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR) is an American non profit organization, 501(c)(6), located in Washington, DC. NABR was formed in 1985 when the Association of Biomedical Research merged with the National Society for Medical Research The NABR advocates for the continued use of animals in biomedical research albeit in as humane a manner as possible.\n\nNABR reports to provide the unified voice for the scientific community on legislative and regulatory matters affecting laboratory animal research over its 30-year history. NABR has worked to ensure that biomedical research using animals remains possible, acting on behalf of approximately 300 public and private universities, medical and veterinary schools, teaching hospitals, voluntary health agencies, professional societies, pharmaceutical and biotech companies, and other animal research-related interests. These members are involved directly in the use of animals in biomedical research, committed to the responsible and humane use of these animals, and dependent upon innovations in medical research to advance the agenda of curing disease.\n\nThe association is the only national, nonprofit organization dedicated solely to advocating for a public policy that recognizes what has been described as the vital role that animals play in biomedical research. Its advocacy activities have included representing the views of its members to Congress through encouraging supportive legislation, providing comments on pending proposals, presenting testimony at Congressional hearings, and serving as an information source for Congressional staff and constituents.\n\nThe association has actively supported and promoted the humane care and treatment of laboratory animals in biomedical research, training, and education, and its members practice the “Three Rs” in these endeavors:\n\nThe policy position by the biomedical research community that is represented by NABR, is that it is not now possible to completely replace the use of animals in biomedical research, and that the study of whole, living organisms is and will remain an indispensable element of biomedicine that is beneficial to both veterinary and human health. NABR's sister organization is the Foundation for Biomedical Research.\n\nIn 1979, the proposed Health Research Modernization Act established a National Center for Alternative Research. The legislation would have mandated that 30-50 percent of federal dollars currently spent on animal research be diverted to study alternatives. This legislative initiative provided the impetus to establish an organization that would educate lawmakers about animal research. In 1979, the \"Research Animal Alliance\", a group of companies and individuals seeking to protect animal research, formed in Boston, MA and successfully guided legislation that would affect the future of biomedical research relying on animal models.\n\nIn 1981 the RAA changed its name to the Association for Biomedical Research (ABR). Greater than 80 percent of members responded the first time ABR mobilized its membership for comments to the United States Congress on the use of animals in research.\n\nIn 1981 ABR President Dr. Edward C. Melby testified before Congress on the important role of animals in medical research. saying that \"the peer review system of the major granting agencies, including the NIH, the editorial review process for originality of thought by scientific journals and the cost-effectiveness of private industry prevent most so-called unnecessary animal experiments.” \nIn September 1984, the ABR office relocated to Washington, D.C. in response to increasing congressional interest. In 1985, the ABR merged with the National Society for Medical Research to become the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR). During debate on the 1985 reauthorization of the Farm bill, NABR successfully obtained modifications to the Animal Welfare Act amendments that aimed to provide a consistent and reasonable framework in which research facilities can operate.\n\nIn 1986, as an advocate of a strong national enforcement program of animal research facilities, the association joined with 100 scientific and animal welfare organizations to urge adequate funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).\n\nThe association lead a broad-based coalition to the passage of the Animal Enterprise Protection Act of 1992. NABR also helped defeat several policies, including the Information Dissemination and Research Accountability Act\", that it considered would have put obstacles in the way of research.\n\nDuring reauthorization of the 2002 Farm bill, the association was successful in obtaining a statutory exemption under the Animal Welfare Act of coverage of rats, mice and birds used for research. The association argued that these species are covered under other protective guidelines, policies and regulations.\nIn 2006, NABR was central in the effort that lead to the enactment of the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act (AETA), which was signed into law on November 27, 2006 by President George W. Bush\".\n\nSince its inception, the association has represented the scientific community to policymakers. At times of increased animal activist campaigns against researchers by the animal rights movement, It worked to furnish legislators with facts from the biomedical research community, and educated them on the impact proposed changes would have on the progress of medical research. It led the biomedical community's participation in the legislative process, served as a resource for scientists targeted by the animal rights movement, and played a central role in assuring that federal laws met animal welfare and biomedical research needs.\n\n"}
{"id": "43712716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712716", "title": "National Health Act 1953", "text": "National Health Act 1953\n\nThe National Health Act 1953 is an Act of the Parliament of Australia. Its long title describes it as \"relating to the provision of pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits, and of medical and dental services\". The Act was passed in 1953 in the Fifth Cabinet under the Prime Ministership of Robert Menzies. Its \"chief architect\" was the then Minister for Health, Earle Page.\n\n"}
{"id": "24313042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24313042", "title": "Optimal discriminant analysis", "text": "Optimal discriminant analysis\n\nOptimal Discriminant Analysis (ODA) and the related classification tree analysis (CTA) are exact statistical methods that maximize predictive accuracy. For any specific sample and exploratory or confirmatory hypothesis, optimal discriminant analysis (ODA) identifies the statistical model that yields maximum predictive accuracy, assesses the exact Type I error rate, and evaluates potential cross-generalizability. Optimal discriminant analysis may be applied to > 0 dimensions, with the one-dimensional case being referred to as UniODA and the multidimensional case being referred to as MultiODA. Classification tree analysis is a generalization of optimal discriminant analysis to non-orthogonal trees. Classification tree analysis has more recently been called \"hierarchical optimal discriminant analysis\". Optimal discriminant analysis and classification tree analysis may be used to find the combination of variables and cut points that best separate classes of objects or events. These variables and cut points may then be used to reduce dimensions and to then build a statistical model that optimally describes the data.\n\nOptimal discriminant analysis may be thought of as a generalization of Fisher's linear discriminant analysis. Optimal discriminant analysis is an alternative to ANOVA (analysis of variance) and regression analysis, which attempt to express one dependent variable as a linear combination of other features or measurements. However, ANOVA and regression analysis give a dependent variable that is a numerical variable, while optimal discriminant analysis gives a dependent variable that is a class variable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55847778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55847778", "title": "Osakidetza", "text": "Osakidetza\n\nOsakidetza is the institution created in 1984 in charge of the public healthcare system in the autonomous community of the Basque Country, belonging to the National Health System, created in 1986 and that substituted INSALUD.\n\nThe transfer of responsibilities to the Basque government in matters of healthcare was done during the administration of Carlos Garaikoetxea as Lehendakari, after the approval of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country in 1979. It is a public healthcare service with a great number of facilities that take care of the needs of the Basque citizens. Its chief is the Secretary of Health of the Basque Government.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17169102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17169102", "title": "Pelé Law", "text": "Pelé Law\n\nThe Pelé Law is a Brazilian law that forces professional sports clubs to observe business law and pay tax within two years.\n\nOn March 24, 1998, Law N. 9.615/98, stipulates that by 2001 clubs can sign a maximum five-year contract with a player when he turns 16 and stand to receive only a \"penalty fee\" of up to 100 times his monthly wage if he leaves before then. If a player fulfills the contract without renewing then he can leave and join a new club as a free agent. The previous club receives no transfer fee or compensation in this transaction with his new club.\n\nThe law also allows clubs to organise their own leagues, breaking the monopoly of official organisations such as the Brazilian Football Confederation.\n\nAs referred to above, Pelé Law regulates all aspects of sports in Brazil. This Law embraces general rules about Brazilian Sports Law, regardless of the sports modality in question.\n\nDue to its comprehensive nature we will restrict our analysis to the most controversial aspects. We will not discuss some aspects of Pelé Law, such as disciplinary codes, Brazilian internal sports organization, sports courts composing, gambling regulations and other.\n\nThis analysis includes the following aspects: \n(i) establishment of leagues; \n(ii) establishment of for profit sports enterprise organizations; \n(iii) labor contracts rules; \n(iv) Arena; and \n(v) insurance policies for athletes.\n\nArticle 20 of Pelé Law and its 5 subsections regulate the establishment of leagues. The caput of this article allows clubs that take part in any national or regional competition and are members of the Brazilian National Sports System to found leagues.\n\nThese leagues will be private legal entities, and may, among other issues, negotiate on behalf of their members, sponsorship agreements, advertising and broadcasting contracts.\n\nThe establishment of leagues must be notified to the national sports administration entities (“NSAE”) such as Federations and Confederations and such leagues are totally independent from the NSAE. Since the leagues are independent from the referred to entities, these are not allowed to interfere with the league private matters. Affiliation with a league does not imply in disaffiliation of the NSAE board. The club may participate in competitions organized by both entities, without legal restriction.\n\nArising form such legal permission, from 2001 football clubs started to organize themselves in leagues, which lead to the weakening of “CBF” (Brazilian Football Confederation) political power, for that body would no longer organize the Brazilian football championship, being left to organize solely the Brazil Cup, and being responsible for the national team.\n\nHowever, aiming to avoid confrontation with CBF, and consequently with FIFA, as well as avoiding the possibility of being forbidden to take part in the Copa Libertadores, the teams taking part in the Brazilian Professional Football League agreed that the Brazilian Championship in 2002 will be organized and promoted by the League jointly with CBF.\n\nAccording to articles 27 and 27A in Pelé Law, any club – be it of football or not - has the right to shift into a corporation, such change not being mandatory. Differing from Spain and Portugal, there is no specific modality of a company destined exclusively to sports clubs in Brazil. There is no such a legal entity as called a “Sports Joint Stock Company”\n\nIn case a club should have the interest in a total change - or a change specifically in its football or volleyball department - into a corporation, the model adopted could be any of those as foreseen by law. That is, on deciding to change into a corporation, the club can make an option for a Stock Company, a Limited Liability Company, a Foundation, among other.\n\nFollowing the established in FIFA Statute (article 7, N.5), taking into consideration the ENIC case, and aiming to reassure the “incertitude sportive”, Law N. 9.981/00 has imposed a veto to any simultaneous participation of an individual or a corporation in the capital stock of two or more clubs disputing the same professional competition.\n\nSuch veto also embraces the joint ownership investments, indirect capital participation, and relatives ownership in sports clubs. The sponsorship in shirts and the administration of trademark and sports events (“Stadiums”) exploitation are counted out of this veto.\n\nWeird as it can be, that same article brings the prohibition of companies granted with the exploitation of radio and television services, be it open television or cable, to sponsor any sports club.\n\nArticle 28 of Pelé Law stipulates the most relevant aspects of the Professional Athlete’s Labor Contract (“PALC”), that are:\n\n\nThe absence of any of above mentioned aspects will nullify the contract. A valid contract is formed only if both parties intend the act of signing to be the last act in the formation of a binding contract.\n\nThe requirement of a written contract implies that the Athlete must be able to understand its terms and sign his or her name and also to avoid discussions about the existence of labor relation between the club and athlete.\n\nThe parties in a PALC must be an athlete and a club or a sports enterprise. This provision intents to hinder the action of agents. However, the law does not prohibit the ownership of a club by an agent.\n\nThe term of a PALC must be clearly stated in the contract, and pursuant to Article 30 of Pelé Law the minimum term of a PALC is 3 (three) months and a maximum is 5 (five) years. However, a PALC may have its terms suspended if the Athlete becomes unable to exercise his activity due to an occupational accident or disease, suffered in the club or while defending any team selection.\n\nArticle 31 of Pelé Law provides that if the club has not effected partially or totally the payment for the services for 3 (three) consecutive months, the PALC can be rescinded by the Athlete without the latter incurring in any fine. Moreover, pursuant article 32 of Pelé Law, if the mentioned partial or total late payment lasts 2 (two) or more months, the athlete is allowed to stop playing for his team.\n\nIn case the athlete is asked to integrate the national or regional team, pursuant to article 41, the NSAE responsible for the national team shall be liable for the payment of the wages of the athletes for the services during the period that he/she will be under NSAE disposal.\n\nThe payment encompasses not only wages but also gratification, bonuses, benefits and reserves. Two other forms of payment may be included in the contract. These are known as (i) “bicho” and (ii) Arena. The Arena will be explained later.\n\n“Bicho” is a money prize paid by the club to an athlete according to the team’s performance, such as winning a championship, winning or drawing a match, qualifying to other championship phases, among others. The “bicho” may be established in the contract, but this is not usual.\n\nParagraph # 2 of article 28, is one of the most controversial aspects of the Pelé Law, once it has abolished the “passe”. “Passe” was a legal determination that an athlete remains “tied” to the club even after the termination of a Labor Contract. Therefore, a tie-release amount was due to the club by another club if the latter wished to offer the athlete a new labor contract. Pursuant article 93 of Pelé Law, the abolishment of “passe” only took effectiveness on March 24, 2001.\n\nAfter the extinction of the “passe”, what will keep the athlete bound to a football club is his labor contract, and at the final term of this the athlete will be free to change teams without payment of any indemnification whatsoever to his former club.\n\nHowever, in case the athlete wishes to change clubs during the effectiveness of his contract, or in case the club wishes to release the athlete during the contract effectiveness, the payment of penalty for rescission shall be due, according to the contract provisions for such events.\n\nAccording to paragraph 3 of article 38 in Pelé Law, the amount of the penalty clause is freely established by the parties entering the contract, but shall be limited to 100 times the annual remuneration agreed to. Paragraph 4 of that same article establishes an automatic annual reduction on the penalty clause. On the first year of the accomplished contract, the penalty clause shall have a reduction of 10%; on the second year, the reduction shall be of 20%; on the third year, 40%; and on the fourth year, 80%.\n\nIt is important to note that according to Pelé Law, the limit of the penalty clause and the referred to reductions will only be applicable in the transfers between Brazilian clubs. When such transfer occurs to foreign clubs, the amount of the penalty clause is of free stipulation.\n\nThere are two more exceptions to the amount of the penalty clause, being both of them only applicable in the event of the club having formed the player from its base categories:\n\n\nArena is a right that the Club has due to the use of its image during a match. The club has the right to negotiate the broadcasting of its matches and participation on championships as established in the caput of article 42 of Pelé Law. However, pursuant to paragraph # 1 of the same article, 20% (twenty per cent) of the income related to the broadcasting of the matches must be equally distributed to all Athletes of the team.\n\nThe amounts received as transfer of the broadcasting rights are not considered wages, therefore they cannot be used as basis for calculation of the penalty clause established in article 28 of Pelé Law as explained above.\n\nArticle 45 of Pelé Law obliges the club to insure all its Athletes. The relevant insurance policies must cover personal and occupational accidents. Pelé Law provides that the indemnity must correspond to the negotiated year-wages of the Athlete.\n\nBy Oct 2002, for being a controversial law, given it changed drastically the football culture in Brazil, Pelé Law has been suffering mutilations since its promulgation. In less than 4 years of being in force, that Law has already been through 3 major alterations, most of them based financial and political interests, never sports ones. For a better understanding of the magnitude of such mutilations, only 58% of the original text remains.\n\nGeneral Aspects of Brazilian Sports Law and Its Daily Applicability Written 2002 by Luiz Roberto Martins Castro\n"}
{"id": "2998400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998400", "title": "Prasterone", "text": "Prasterone\n\nPrasterone, also known as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and sold under the brand names Intrarosa and Gynodian Depot among others, is a medication as well as over-the-counter dietary supplement which is used to correct DHEA deficiency due to adrenal insufficiency or old age, as a component of menopausal hormone therapy, to treat painful sexual intercourse due to vaginal atrophy, and to prepare the cervix for childbirth, among other uses. It is taken by mouth, by application to the skin, in through the vagina, or by injection into muscle.\nSide effects of prasterone in women include symptoms of masculinization like oily skin, acne, increased hair growth, voice changes, and increased sexual desire, headaches, insomnia, and others. The compound is a naturally occurring prohormone of androgens and estrogens and hence is an agonist of the androgen and estrogen receptors, the respective biological targets of androgens like testosterone and estrogens like estradiol. Prasterone also has a variety of activities of its own, including neurosteroid and other activities.\nPrasterone was discovered in 1934. An association between DHEA levels and aging was first reported in 1965. The compound started being used as a medication in the late 1970s and as a supplement in the early 1980s. The marketing of prasterone over-the-counter as a supplement is allowed in the United States but is banned in many other countries.\n\nDHEA and DHEA sulfate are produced by the adrenal glands. In people with adrenal insufficiency such as in Addison's disease, there may be deficiency of DHEA and DHEA sulfate. In addition, levels of these steroids decrease throughout life and are 70 to 80% lower in the elderly relative to levels in young adults. Prasterone can be used to increase DHEA and DHEA sulfate levels in adrenal insufficiency and older age. Although there is deficiency of these steroids in such individuals, clinical benefits of supplementation, if any, are uncertain, and there is insufficient evidence at present to support the use of prasterone for such purposes.\n\nPrasterone is sometimes used as an androgen in menopausal hormone therapy. In addition to prasterone itself, a long-lasting ester prodrug of prasterone, prasterone enanthate, is used in combination with estradiol valerate for the treatment of menopausal symptoms under the brand name Gynodian Depot.\n\nPrasterone, under the brand name Intrarosa, is approved in the United States in a vaginal insert formulation for the treatment of atrophic vaginitis. The mechanism of action of prasterone for this indication is unknown, though it may involve local metabolism of prasterone into androgens and estrogens.\n\nAs the sodium salt of prasterone sulfate (brand names Astenile, Mylis, Teloin), an ester prodrug of prasterone, prasterone is used in Japan as an injection for the treatment of insufficient cervical ripening and cervical dilation during childbirth.\n\nPrasterone is produced naturally in the human body, but the long-term effects of its use are largely unknown. In the short term, several studies have noted few adverse effects. In a study by Chang \"et al.\", prasterone was administered at a dose of 200 mg/day for 24 weeks with slight androgenic effects noted. Another study utilized a dose up to 400 mg/day for 8 weeks with few adverse events reported. A longer term study followed patients dosed with 50 mg of prasterone for 12 months with the number and severity of side effects reported to be small. Another study delivered a dose of 50 mg of prasterone for 10 months with no serious adverse events reported.\n\nAs a hormone precursor, there have been reports of side effects possibly caused by the hormone metabolites of prasterone.\n\nIt is not known whether prasterone is safe for long-term use. Some researchers believe prasterone supplements might actually raise the risk of breast cancer, prostate cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and stroke. Prasterone may stimulate tumor growth in types of cancer that are sensitive to hormones, such as some types of breast, uterine, and prostate cancer. Prasterone may increase prostate swelling in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), an enlarged prostate gland.\n\nPrasterone is a steroid hormone. High doses may cause aggressiveness, irritability, trouble sleeping, and the growth of body or facial hair on women. It also may stop menstruation and lower the levels of HDL (\"good\" cholesterol), which could raise the risk of heart disease. Other reported side effects include acne, heart rhythm problems, liver problems, hair loss (from the scalp), and oily skin. It may also alter the body's regulation of blood sugar.\n\nPrasterone may promote tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer. It may also increase the risk of uterine and prostate cancers due to metabolism into estrogens and androgens, respectively. Patients on hormone replacement therapy may have more estrogen-related side effects when taking prasterone. This supplement may also interfere with other medicines, and potential interactions between it and drugs and herbs are possible.\n\nPrasterone is possibly unsafe for individuals experiencing pregnancy, breastfeeding, hormone sensitive conditions, liver problems, diabetes, depression or mood disorders, polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), or cholesterol problems.\n\nPrasterone has been reported to possess few or no side effects even at very high dosages (e.g., 50 times the recommended over-the-counter supplement dosage). However, it may cause masculinization and other androgenic side effects in women and gynecomastia and other estrogenic side effects in men.\n\nPrasterone is metabolized into androgens and estrogens in the body. It is transformed into androstenedione by 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3β-HSD) and into androstenediol by 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17β-HSD). Then, androstenedione and androstenediol can be converted into testosterone by 17β-HSD and 3β-HSD, respectively. Subsequently, testosterone can be metabolized into dihydrotestosterone by 5α-reductase. In addition, androstenedione and testosterone can be converted into estrone and estradiol by aromatase, respectively. Prasterone is also reversibly transformed into prasterone sulfate by steroid sulfotransferase (specifically SULT1E1 and SULT2A1), which in turn can be converted back into prasterone by steroid sulfatase. The transformation of prasterone into androgens and estrogens is tissue-specific, occurring for instance in the liver, fat, vagina, prostate gland, skin, and hair follicles, among other tissues.\n\nIn clinical studies of prasterone supplementation, dosages have ranged from 20 to 1,600 mg per day. In people with adrenal insufficiency, oral dosages of 20 to 50 mg/day prasterone have been found to restore DHEA and DHEA-S levels to normal ranges seen in healthy young adults. Conversely, oral dosages of 100 to 200 mg/day prasterone have been found to result in supraphysiological levels of DHEA and DHEA-S. At a high dosage of 1,600 mg/day orally for 4 weeks, treatment of postmenopausal women with prasterone has been found to increase serum levels of DHEA by 15-fold, testosterone by 9-fold, DHEA-S, androstenedione, and DHT all by 20-fold, and estrone and estradiol both by 2-fold. Micronization of prasterone has been found to significantly increase levels of DHEA-S achieved with oral administration but to produce no significant change in levels of DHEA or testosterone levels achieved.\n\nAlthough prasterone can reliably increase testosterone levels in women, this isn't similarly the case in men. A high dosage of 1,600 mg/day prasterone in men for 4 weeks was found to increase DHEA and androstenedione levels but did not significantly affect testosterone levels.\n\nPrasterone, also known as androst-5-en-3β-ol-17-one, is a naturally occurring androstane steroid and a 17-ketosteroid. It is closely related structurally to androstenediol (androst-5-ene-3β,17β-diol), androstenedione (androst-4-ene-3,17-dione), and testosterone (androst-4-en-17β-ol-3-one). Prasterone is the δ (5(6)-dehydrogenated) analogue of epiandrosterone (5α-androstan-3β-ol-17-one), and is also known as 5-dehydroepiandrosterone (5-DHEA) or δ-epiandrosterone. A positional isomer of prasterone which may have similar biological activity is 4-dehydroepiandrosterone (4-DHEA).\n\nPrasterone is used medically as the C3β esters prasterone enanthate and prasterone sulfate. The C19 demethyl analogue of prasterone is 19-nordehydroepiandrosterone (19-nor-DHEA), which is a prohormone of nandrolone (19-nortestosterone). The 5α-reduced and δ (1(2)-dehydrogenated) analogue of prasterone is 1-dehydroepiandrosterone (1-DHEA or 1-androsterone), which is a prohormone of 1-testosterone (δ-DHT or dihydroboldenone). Fluasterone (3β-dehydroxy-16α-fluoro-DHEA) is a derivative of prasterone with minimal or no hormonal activity but other biological activities preserved.\n\nDHEA was discovered, via isolation from male urine, by Adolf Butenandt and in 1934, and the compound was isolated from human blood plasma by Migeon and Plager in 1954. DHEA sulfate, the 3β-sulfate ester of DHEA, was isolated from urine in 1944, and was found by Baulieu to be the most abundant steroid hormone in human plasma in 1954. From its discovery in 1934 until 1959, DHEA was referred to by a number of different names in the literature, including \"dehydroandrosterone\", \"transdehydroandrosterone\", \"dehydroisoandrosterone\", and \"androstenolone\". The name \"dehydroepiandrosterone\", also known as \"DHEA\", was first proposed by Fieser in 1949, and subsequently became the most commonly used name of the hormone. For decades after its discovery, DHEA was considered to be an inactive compound that served mainly as an intermediate in the production of androgens and estrogens from cholesterol. In 1965, an association between DHEA sulfate levels and aging was reported by De Nee and Vermeulen. Following this, DHEA became of interest to the scientific community, and numerous studies assessing the relationship between DHEA and DHEA sulfate levels and aging were conducted.\n\n\"Prasterone\", the proposed and recommended of DHEA and the term used when referring to the compound as a medication, were published in 1970 and 1978, respectively. The combination of 4 mg estradiol valerate and 200 mg prasterone enanthate in an oil solution was introduced for use in menopausal hormone therapy by intramusuclar injection under the brand name Gynodian Depot in Europe by 1978. In the early 1980s, prasterone became available and was widely sold over-the-counter as a non-prescription supplement in the United States, primarily as a weight loss aid. It was described as a \"miracle drug\", with supposed anti-aging, anti-obesity, and anti-cancer benefits. This continued until 1985, when the marketing of prasterone was banned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) due to a lack of evidence for health benefits and due to the long-term safety and risks of the compound being unknown at the time. Subsequently, prasterone once again became available over-the-counter as a dietary supplement in the United States following the passage of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994. Conversely, it has remained banned as a supplement in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nIn 2001, Genelabs submitted a New Drug Application of prasterone for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) to the FDA. It had the tentative brand names Anastar, Aslera, and Prestara. However, this application was not approved, and while development of prasterone for SLE in both the United States and Europe continued until up to 2010, the medication was ultimately never approved for the treatment of this condition. In 2016, the FDA approved prasterone in an intravaginal gel formulation for the treatment of painful sexual intercourse due to vulvovaginal atrophy in the United States under the brand name Intrarosa. This was the first prasterone-containing medication to be approved by the FDA in this country.\n\n\"Prasterone\" is the generic name of DHEA in English and Italian and its , , and , while its generic name is \"prasteronum\" in Latin, \"prastérone\" in French and its , and \"prasteron\" in German.\n\nIn the United States, prasterone or prasterone sulfate have been advertised, under the names DHEA and DHEA-S, with claims that they may be beneficial for a wide variety of ailments. Prasterone and prasterone sulfate are readily available in the United States, where they are sold as over-the-counter dietary supplements.\n\nPrasterone is legal to sell in the United States as a dietary supplement. It is currently grandfathered in as an \"Old Dietary Ingredient\" being on sale prior to 1994. Prasterone is specifically exempted from the Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 1990 and 2004.\nIt is banned from use in athletic competition.\n\nIn Canada, prasterone is a Controlled Drug listed under Section 23 of Schedule IV of the \"Controlled Drugs and Substances Act\" and as such is available by prescription only.\n\nIn Australia, a prescription is required to buy prasterone, where it is also comparatively expensive compared to off-the-shelf purchases in US supplement shops. Australian customs classify prasterone as an \"anabolic steroid[s] or precursor[s]\" and, as such, it is only possible to carry prasterone into the country through customs if one possesses an import permit which may be obtained if one has a valid prescription for the hormone.\n\nPrasterone is listed as an anabolic steroid and is thus a class C controlled drug.\n\nPrasterone is a prohibited substance under the World Anti-Doping Code of the World Anti-Doping Agency, which manages drug testing for Olympics and other sports. In January 2011, NBA player O. J. Mayo was given a 10-game suspension after testing positive for prasterone. Mayo termed his use of prasterone as \"an honest mistake,\" saying the prasterone was in an over-the-counter supplement and that he was unaware the supplement was banned by the NBA. Mayo is the seventh player to test positive for performance-enhancing drugs since the league began testing in 1999. Rashard Lewis, then with the Orlando Magic, tested positive for prasterone and was suspended 10 games before the start of the 2009-10 season. 2008 Olympic 400 meter champion Lashawn Merritt has also tested positive for prasterone and was banned from the sport for 21 months. Yulia Efimova, who holds the world record pace for both the 50-meter and 200-meter breaststroke, and won the bronze medal in the 200-meter breaststroke in the 2012 London Olympic Games, tested positive for prasterone in an out-of-competition doping test. In 2016 MMA fighter Fabio Maldonado revealed he was taking prasterone during his time with the UFC.\n\nA meta-analysis of intervention studies shows that prasterone supplementation in elderly men can induce a small but significant positive effect on body composition that is strictly dependent on prasterone conversion into its bioactive metabolites such as androgens or estrogens. Evidence is inconclusive in regards to the effect of prasterone on strength in the elderly. In middle-aged men, no significant effect of prasterone supplementation on lean body mass, strength, or testosterone levels was found in a randomized placebo-controlled trial.\n\nThere is no evidence prasterone is of benefit in treating or preventing cancer. Although prasterone is postulated as an inhibitor towards glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) and suppresses leukemia cell proliferation \"in vitro\", Prasterone may enhance G6PD mRNA expression, confounding its inhibitory effects.\n\nA review in 2003 found the then-extant evidence sufficient to suggest that low serum levels of DHEA-S may be associated with coronary heart disease in men, but insufficient to determine whether prasterone supplementation would have any cardiovascular benefit.\n\nA double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adult polydrug users in a detoxification program showed the efficacy of prasterone treatment combined with psychosocial enrichment and after-care. Prasterone administration positively affected decision-making, mood and well-being as early as one month into treatment, and had a long-lasting preventive effect on relapse to drug use. In a 16-month follow-up, relapse rates of prasterone-treated subjects were only 11.5%. No adverse symptoms were found. These findings demonstrate the long-term effect of prasterone on drug relapse.\n\nThere is some evidence of short-term benefit in those with SLE but little evidence of long-term benefit or safety. Prasterone was under development for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus in the United States and Europe in the 1990s and 2000s and reached phase III clinical trials and preregistration for this indication, respectively, but ultimately development was not continued past 2010.\n\nPrasterone supplementation has not been found to be useful for memory function in normal middle aged or older adults. It has been studied as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease, but there is no evidence that it is effective.\n\nA few small, short term clinical studies have found that prasterone improves mood but its long-term efficacy and safety, and how it compares to antidepressants, was unknown as of 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5838030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5838030", "title": "Sewage sludge treatment", "text": "Sewage sludge treatment\n\nSewage sludge treatment describes the processes used to manage and dispose of sewage sludge produced during sewage treatment. Sludge is mostly water with lesser amounts of solid material removed from liquid sewage. Primary sludge includes settleable solids removed during primary treatment in primary clarifiers. Secondary sludge separated in secondary clarifiers includes treated sewage sludge from secondary treatment bioreactors.\n\nSludge treatment is focused on reducing sludge weight and volume to reduce disposal costs, and on reducing potential health risks of disposal options. Water removal is the primary means of weight and volume reduction, while pathogen destruction is frequently accomplished through heating during thermophilic digestion, composting, or incineration. The choice of a sludge treatment method depends on the volume of sludge generated, and comparison of treatment costs required for available disposal options. Air-drying and composting may be attractive to rural communities, while limited land availability may make aerobic digestion and mechanical dewatering preferable for cities, and economies of scale may encourage energy recovery alternatives in metropolitan areas.\n\nEnergy may be recovered from sludge through methane gas production during anaerobic digestion or through incineration of dried sludge, but energy yield is often insufficient to evaporate sludge water content or to power blowers, pumps, or centrifuges required for dewatering. Coarse primary solids and secondary sewage sludge may include toxic chemicals removed from liquid sewage by sorption onto solid particles in clarifier sludge. Reducing sludge volume may increase the concentration of some of these toxic chemicals in the sludge.\n\n\"Biosolids\" is a term often used in wastewater engineering publications and public relations efforts by local water authorities when they want to put the focus on reuse of sewage sludge, after the sludge has undergone suitable treatment processes. In fact, biosolids are defined as organic wastewater solids that can be reused after stabilization processes such as anaerobic digestion and composting. The term \"biosolids\" was introduced by the Water Environment Federation in the U.S. in 1998. However, some people argue that the term is a form of \"propaganda\" (or at least a euphemism) with the aim to hide the fact that sewage sludge may also contain substances that could be harmful to the environment when the treated sludge is applied to land, for example environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutants.\n\nThickening is often the first step in a sludge treatment process. Sludge from primary or secondary clarifiers may be stirred (often after addition of clarifying agents) to form larger, more rapidly settling aggregates. Primary sludge may be thickened to about 8 or 10 percent solids, while secondary sludge may be thickened to about 4 percent solids. Thickeners often resemble a clarifier with the addition of a stirring mechanism. Thickened sludge with less than ten percent solids may receive additional sludge treatment while liquid thickener overflow is returned to the sewage treatment process.\n\nWater content of sludge may be reduced by centrifugation, filtration, and/or evaporation to reduce transportation costs of disposal, or to improve suitability for composting. Centrifugation may be a preliminary step to reduce sludge volume for subsequent filtration or evaporation. Filtration may occur through underdrains in a sand drying bed or as a separate mechanical process in a belt filter press. Filtrate and centrate are typically returned to the sewage treatment process. After dewatering sludge may be handled as a solid containing 50 to 75 percent water. Dewatered sludges with higher moisture content are usually handled as liquids.\n\nSludge treatment technologies that are used for thickening or dewatering of sludge have two products: the thickened or dewatered sludge, and a liquid fraction which is called sludge treatment liquids, sludge dewatering streams, liquors, centrate (if it stems from a centrifuge), filtrate (if it stems from a belt filter press) or similar. This liquid requires further treatment as it is high in nitrogen and phosphorus, particularly if the sludge has been anaerobically digested. The treatment can take place in the sewage treatment plant itself (by recycling the liquid to the start of the treatment process) or as a separate process.\n\nOne method for treating sludge dewatering streams is by using a process that is also used for phosphorus recovery. Another benefit for sewage treatment plant operators of treating sludge dewatering streams for phosphorus recovery is that it reduces the formation of obstructive struvite scale in pipes, pumps and valves. Such obstructions can be a maintenance headache particularly for biological nutrient removal plants where the phosphorus content in the sewage sludge is elevated. For example, the Canadian company Ostara Nutrient Recovery Technologies is marketing a process based on controlled chemical precipitation of phosphorus in a fluidized bed reactor that recovers struvite in the form of crystalline pellets from sludge dewatering streams. The resulting crystalline product is sold to the agriculture, turf and ornamental plants sectors as fertiliser under the registered trade name \"Crystal Green\".\n\nMany sludges are treated using a variety of digestion techniques, the purpose of which is to reduce the amount of organic matter and the number of disease-causing microorganisms present in the solids. The most common treatment options include anaerobic digestion, aerobic digestion, and composting. Sludge digestion offers significant cost advantages by reducing sludge quantity by nearly 50% and providing biogas as a valuable energy source.\n\nAnaerobic digestion is a bacterial process that is carried out in the absence of oxygen. The process can either be \"thermophilic\" digestion, in which sludge is fermented in tanks at a temperature of 55 °C, or \"mesophilic\", at a temperature of around 36 °C. Though allowing shorter retention time (and thus smaller tanks), thermophilic digestion is more expensive in terms of energy consumption for heating the sludge.\n\nMesophilic anaerobic digestion (MAD) is also a common method for treating sludge produced at sewage treatment plants. The sludge is fed into large tanks and held for a minimum of 12 days to allow the digestion process to perform the four stages necessary to digest the sludge. These are hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis, and methanogenesis. In this process the complex proteins and sugars are broken down to form more simple compounds such as water, carbon dioxide, and methane.\n\nAnaerobic digestion generates biogas with a high proportion of methane that may be used to both heat the tank and run engines or microturbines for other on-site processes. Methane generation is a key advantage of the anaerobic process. Its key disadvantage is the long time required for the process (up to 30 days) and the high capital cost. Many larger sites utilize the biogas for combined heat and power, using the cooling water from the generators to maintain the temperature of the digestion plant at the required 35 ± 3 °C. Sufficient energy can be generated in this way to produce more electricity than the machines require.\n\nAerobic digestion is a bacterial process occurring in the presence of oxygen resembling a continuation of the activated sludge process. Under aerobic conditions, bacteria rapidly consume organic matter and convert it into carbon dioxide. Once there is a lack of organic matter, bacteria die and are used as food by other bacteria. This stage of the process is known as \"endogenous respiration\". Solids reduction occurs in this phase. Because the aerobic digestion occurs much faster than anaerobic digestion, the capital costs of aerobic digestion are lower. However, the operating costs are characteristically much greater for aerobic digestion because of energy used by the blowers, pumps and motors needed to add oxygen to the process. However, recent technological advances include non-electric aerated filter systems that use natural air currents for the aeration instead of electrically operated machinery.\n\nAerobic digestion can also be achieved by using diffuser systems or jet aerators to oxidize the sludge. Fine bubble diffusers are typically the more cost-efficient diffusion method, however, plugging is typically a problem due to sediment settling into the smaller air holes. Coarse bubble diffusers are more commonly used in activated sludge tanks or in the flocculation stages. A key component for selecting diffuser type is to ensure it will produce the required oxygen transfer rate.\n\nComposting is an aerobic process of mixing sewage sludge with agricultural byproduct sources of carbon such as sawdust, straw or wood chips. In the presence of oxygen, bacteria digesting both the sewage sludge and the plant material generate heat to kill disease-causing microorganisms and parasites. Maintenance of aerobic conditions with 10 to 15 percent oxygen requires bulking agents allowing air to circulate through the fine sludge solids. Stiff materials like corn cobs, nut shells, shredded tree-pruning waste, or bark from lumber or paper mills better separate sludge for ventilation than softer leaves and lawn clippings. Light, biologically inert bulking agents like shredded tires may be used to provide structure where small, soft plant materials are the major source of carbon.\n\nUniform distribution of pathogen-killing temperatures may be aided by placing an insulating blanket of previously composted sludge over aerated composting piles. Initial moisture content of the composting mixture should be about 50 percent; but temperatures may be inadequate for pathogen reduction where wet sludge or precipitation raises compost moisture content above 60 percent. Composting mixtures may be piled on concrete pads with built-in air ducts to be covered by a layer of unmixed bulking agents. Odors may be minimized by using an aerating blower drawing vacuum through the composting pile via the underlying ducts and exhausting through a filtering pile of previously composted sludge to be replaced when moisture content reaches 70 percent. Liquid accumulating in the underdrain ducting may be returned to the sewage treatment plant; and composting pads may be roofed to provide better moisture content control.\n\nAfter a composting interval sufficient for pathogen reduction, composted piles may be screened to recover undigested bulking agents for re-use; and composted solids passing through the screen may be used as a soil amendment material with similar benefits to peat. The optimum initial carbon-to-nitrogen ratio of a composting mixture is between 26-30:1; but the composting ratio of agricultural byproducts may be determined by the amount required to dilute concentrations of toxic chemicals in the sludge to acceptable levels for the intended compost use. Although toxicity is low in most agricultural byproducts, suburban grass clippings may have residual herbicide levels detrimental to some agricultural uses; and freshly composted wood byproducts may contain phytotoxins inhibiting germination of seedlings until detoxified by soil fungi.\n\nIncineration of sludge is less common because of air emissions concerns and the supplemental fuel (typically natural gas or fuel oil) required to burn the low calorific value sludge and vaporize residual water. On a dry solids basis, the fuel value of sludge varies from about of undigested sewage sludge to of digested primary sludge. Stepped multiple hearth incinerators with high residence time and fluidized bed incinerators are the most common systems used to combust wastewater sludge. Co-firing in municipal waste-to-energy plants is occasionally done, this option being less expensive assuming the facilities already exist for solid waste and there is no need for auxiliary fuel. Incineration tends to maximize heavy metal concentrations in the remaining solid ash requiring disposal; but the option of returning wet scrubber effluent to the sewage treatment process may reduce air emissions by increasing concentrations of dissolved salts in sewage treatment plant effluent.\nSimple sludge drying beds are used in many countries, particularly in developing countries, as they are a cheap and simple method to dry sewage sludge. Drainage water must be captured; drying beds are sometimes covered but usually left uncovered. Mechanical devices to turn over the sludge in the initial stages of the drying process are also available on the market.\n\nDrying beds are typically composed of four layers consisting of gravel and sand. The first layer is coarse gravel that is 15 to 20 centimeters thick. Followed by fine gravel that is 10 centimeters thick. The third layer is sand that can be between 10 to 15 centimeters and serves as the filter between the sludge and gravel. Sludge dries up and water percolates to the first layer that is collected at the drainage pipe that is beneath all layers.\n\n\nWhen a liquid sludge is produced, further treatment may be required to make it suitable for final disposal. Sludges are typically thickened and/or dewatered to reduce the volumes transported off-site for disposal. Processes for reducing water content include lagooning in drying beds to produce a cake that can be applied to land or incinerated; pressing, where sludge is mechanically filtered, often through cloth screens to produce a firm cake; and centrifugation where the sludge is thickened by centrifugally separating the solid and liquid. Sludges can be disposed of by liquid injection to land or by disposal in a landfill.\n\nThere is no process which completely eliminates the need to dispose of treated sewage sludge.\n\nMuch sludge originating from commercial or industrial areas is contaminated with toxic materials that are released into the sewers from the industrial processes. Elevated concentrations of such materials may make the sludge unsuitable for agricultural use and it may then have to be incinerated or disposed of to landfill.\n\nThe Edmonton Composting Facility, in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, is the largest sewage sludge composting site in North America.\n\nSewage sludge can be superheated and converted it into pelletized granules that are high in nitrogen and other organic materials. In New York City, for example, several sewage treatment plants have dewatering facilities that use large centrifuges along with the addition of chemicals such as polymer to further remove liquid from the sludge. The product which is left is called \"cake,\" and that is picked up by companies which turn it into fertilizer pellets. This product, also called biosolid, is then sold to local farmers and turf farms as a soil amendment or fertilizer, reducing the amount of space required to dispose of sludge in landfills.\n\nIn the very large metropolitan areas of southern California inland communities return sewage sludge to the sewer system of communities at lower elevations to be reprocessed at a few very large treatment plants on the Pacific coast. This reduces the required size of interceptor sewers and allows local recycling of treated wastewater while retaining the economy of a single sludge processing facility and is an example of how sewage sludge can help solve an energy crisis.\n\nSome campaigners perceive sewage sludge treatment as a problem and a danger to the environment - largely because systems in most industrialised countries mix industrial wastes with household sewerage. This has led some to claim that the term \"biosolids\" was created by the sewage treatment industry in order to take the focus off the origins of the material to make reuse more acceptable to the public, and some studies have suggested that this is in fact a form of propaganda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25553095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25553095", "title": "Smoking in Taiwan", "text": "Smoking in Taiwan\n\nSmoking in Taiwan is regulated by the Tobacco Hazards Prevention Act (Taiwan). Tobacco advertising is banned, and smoking is banned in all indoor public places. Taiwan was the second Asian country to institute an indoor smoking ban, after Bhutan. The Government of the Republic of China is planning to extend the smoking ban to cars, motorbikes and pedestrians.\n\nOf Taiwan's population of 23 million, about 5 million people smoke. Within Taipei, Taiwan's de facto capital city, the prevalence rate decreased to 15.3% in 2009. 2010 was Taipei's Anti-smoking year.\n\nHowever, in 2013 Taiwan recorded 18% of adult smoking rate, the lowest since 1990. This was the result of the government efforts to discourage smoking since the enactment of the Tobacco Hazards Prevention Act in 1997.\n\nSmoking is prohibited in the following places:\n\nConspicuous non-smoking signs shall be placed at all entrances of the places prescribed in the preceding paragraph. No smoking paraphernalia shall be supplied or displayed therein.\n\nGuidelines for related measures of space, equipment and establishment of the indoor smoking rooms prescribed in the preceding Subparagraph 3 of Paragraph 1 and the provision of the preceding Subparagraph 11 of Paragraph 1 shall be enacted by the central competent authority in charge.\n\nAs per the authorization of the Tobacco Hazards Prevention Act (“the Act” hereafter) promulgated on 11 July 2007, the guidelines for related measures of space, equipment and establishment of the indoor smoking rooms (“the room” hereafter) prescribed in the Act’s Subparagraph 3 of Paragraph 1 in Article 15 and the provision of the Act’s Subparagraph 11 of Paragraph 1 in Article 15 were enacted by Department of Health, Executive Yuan, and are summarized as follows:\n\n\nFines have been issued to both individuals and businesses for violations. The government created a hotline (0800-531-531) and offers a monetary reward for citizens who submit photos of violations.\n\n"}
{"id": "38411183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38411183", "title": "Southern California Edison shooting", "text": "Southern California Edison shooting\n\nOn December 16, 2011, a gunman opened fire inside a Southern California Edison office building in Irwindale, California. The gunman, Andre Turner, killed two employees, and wounded two others, before committing suicide.\n\nAndre Turner, 48, showed up at an office building that primarily houses information technology employees, at his usual work time in the morning. He showed no signs of strange behavior prior to the attack and people weren't even aware of the shooting unfolding. At 1:30 pm, Turner took out a handgun in an office building and shot four people. Two employees died: Henry Serrano, 56, of Walnut, and Robert Lindsay, 53, of Chino Hills, who were both supervisors and worked at the facility for at least twenty years. Angela Alvarez, 46, was critically wounded and Abhay Pimpale, 38, received a gun shot to his thigh. During the shooting rampage, Turner engaged in conversation with his co-workers. Turner then shot himself to death.\n\nAs a result, nearby schools were put on lock down, as were other Southern California Edison offices within a 50-mile radius.\n\nRecords indicated that Turner had a civil judgement against him and was being sued. Turner had also been verbally reprimanded by his boss and was told that his employment was going to be terminated.\n\nSCE started a fund for employees to benefit the victims' families. The company seeded the fund with $100,000 and promised to match employee contributions.\n\n"}
{"id": "7086070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7086070", "title": "Stratos (lake)", "text": "Stratos (lake)\n\nLake Stratos () is an artificial lake near Stratos in Aetolia-Acarnania, western Greece. The lake is fed and drained by the river Acheloos. It was formed by the Stratos Dam, completed in 1989. Its maximum capacity is 80,000,000 m³ of water. Its area is 7.4 km. It is used for the generation of hydroelectric power.\n"}
{"id": "30876264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876264", "title": "Suzanne Somers", "text": "Suzanne Somers\n\nSuzanne Somers (born Suzanne Marie Mahoney, October 16, 1946) is an American actress, author, singer, businesswoman, and health spokesperson. She is best known for her television roles as Chrissy Snow on \"Three's Company\" and as Carol Foster Lambert on \"Step by Step\".\n\nSomers later became the author of a series of best-selling self-help books, including \"Ageless: The Naked Truth About Bioidentical Hormones\" (2006), about bioidentical hormone replacement therapy. She has released two autobiographies, four diet books, and a book of poetry.\n\nShe has been criticized for her views on some medical subjects and her advocacy of the Wiley Protocol, which has been labelled as \"scientifically unproven and dangerous\". Her promotion of alternative cancer treatments has received praise from naturopathic health practitioners and criticism from the American Cancer Society.\n\nBorn Suzanne Marie Mahoney in San Bruno, California, Somers was the third of four children in an Irish-American Catholic family. Her mother, Marion Elizabeth (née Turner), was a medical secretary, and her father, Francis Mahoney, was a laborer and gardener. When Suzanne was six years old her father became an alcoholic. Her father would call her names and embarrass her.\n\nShe attended Capuchino High School and was accepted at San Francisco College for Women, a college run by the Catholic Society of the Sacred Heart order. In 1965, she married Bruce Somers, and they had a son, Bruce, Jr. in November 1965. That marriage ended in 1968.\n\nShe became a prize model on \"Anniversary Game\" (1969–70), where she met host Alan Hamel. They married in 1977; he had a son and daughter from a prior marriage.\nWhen Suzanne Somers found out she was pregnant with Alan's child she had an abortion because she wasn't ready to take care of a second child.\n\nShe was diagnosed with stage II breast cancer in April 2000, and had a lumpectomy to remove the cancer followed by radiation therapy, but decided to forgo chemotherapy, which doctors prescribe, in favor of a fermented mistletoe extract called Iscador.\n\nOn January 9, 2007, the Associated Press reported that a wildfire in Southern California had destroyed Somers' Malibu home.\n\nSomers began acting in small roles during the late 1960s and early 1970s (including on various talk shows promoting her book of poetry, and bit parts in movies, such as the \"Blonde in the white Thunderbird\" in \"American Graffiti\", and an episode of the American version of the sitcom \"Lotsa Luck\" as the femme fatale in the early 1970s). She also appeared in \"The Rockford Files\" and had an uncredited role as a topless pool girl in \"Magnum Force\", both in 1974. She also had a guest-starring role on \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", in the 1977 episode \"Cheshire Project.\" She later landed her most famous role of the ditzy blonde \"Chrissy Snow\" on the ABC sitcom \"Three's Company\" in 1977. Also that year, she was a celebrity panelist on \"Match Game\", and appeared with husband Alan Hamel on \"Tattletales\".\n\nSomers was cast in the ABC sitcom \"Three's Company\" in January 1977. After actresses Suzanne Zenor and Susan Lanier did not impress producers during the first two test pilots, Somers was suggested by ABC president Fred Silverman, who had seen her on the \"Tonight Show\" and she was auditioned and hired the day before the taping of the third and final pilot officially commenced. She portrayed Chrissy Snow, a stereotypical dumb blonde, who was employed as an office secretary.\n\nThe series co-starred John Ritter and Joyce DeWitt in a comedy of errors about two young ladies living with a young man who pretends to be gay in order to bypass the landlord's policy prohibiting single men sharing an apartment with single women. It was an instant success in the ratings, eventually spawning a short-lived spin-off series (starring Norman Fell and Audra Lindley). Somers was an audience favorite, leading the media to proclaim her the show's breakout star, and she was generally credited for making the show a worldwide phenomenon. Somers role made her a sex symbol of that era.\n\nAt the beginning of the fifth season in 1980, Somers demanded a hefty salary raise from $30,000 to $150,000 an episode and 10 percent ownership of the show's profit. Those close to the situation suggested that Somers' rebellion was due to husband Hamel's influences.\nWhen ABC denied her request, she boycotted the second and fourth shows of the season, due to excuses such as a broken rib. She finished the remaining season on her contract, but her role was decreased to 60 seconds per episode (her character only appearing in the episode's closing tag in which she calls the trio's apartment from her parents' home). After her contract was terminated, she sued ABC for $2 million, claiming her credibility in show business had been damaged. It went to an arbitrator who decided she was owed only $30,000, due to a single missed episode for which she had not been paid. Other rulings favored the producers. Somers claims she was fired for asking to be paid as much as male television stars of the day such as Alan Alda and Carroll O'Connor.\n\nBefore the feud with \"Three's Company\" producers and ABC ended, rival network CBS knew that Somers was ultimately going to be available. They signed her to a contract and a development deal for her own sitcom, to be called \"The Suzanne Somers Show\", in which she was to play an \"over-the-top\" airline stewardess. Once she was indeed available (after her firing from \"Three's Company\"), CBS gave Somers – and the public – a time frame in which to expect the show to hit the air, but due to a change in administration at CBS' entertainment division in early 1982, executives ended up passing on the project. Also, Somers claimed in her book \"After the Fall\" (1998) that the producers of \"Three's Company\" kept sending cease and desist forms to CBS stating that Somers could not use any of her Chrissy Snow characterization, which purportedly chilled the creative process.\n\nSomers and her \"Three's Company\" co-star John Ritter reconciled their friendship after 20 years of not speaking to each other, shortly before Ritter's death.\n\nCalling her a legend in the industry, on May 2, 2014, Direct Marketing Response inducted Somers into the infomercial Hall of Fame.\n\nSomers appeared in two \"Playboy\" cover-feature nude pictorials, in 1980 and 1984. The first set of photos was taken by Stan Malinowski in February 1970 when Somers was a struggling model and actress and did a test photoshoot for the magazine. She was accepted as a Playmate candidate in 1971, but declined to pose nude before the actual shoot. During a \"The Tonight Show\" appearance, she denied ever posing nude (except for a \"High Society\" topless photo), which prompted Playboy to publish photos from the Malinowski shoot a decade later, in 1980. Somers' original motivation for posing nude was to be able to pay medical bills related to injuries her son Bruce Jr suffered in a car accident. By the time the photos were published, her son was 14 and Somers feared his seeing his mother posing nude would be difficult for him, and hoped he would not see the photos. Somers sued Playboy and settled for $50,000—which was donated to charity, at least $10,000 of it going to the Easter Seals. The second nude pictorial by Richard Fegley appeared in December 1984 in an attempt by Somers to regain her popularity after being terminated from \"Three's Company\" in 1981. Despite her anger and the earlier lawsuit, Playboy approached her earlier that year to pose nude a second time. Initially she was angered again, but eventually agreed after discussing it with her husband, her son, and her mother. She felt she would have a better chance to control the quality of the photos the second time, and having such control was an important condition that Somers attached to posing. Despite Somers' earlier belief that her son would not want to see his mother nude, her then 18 year old son did view the second pictorial.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Somers became a Las Vegas entertainer. Later on, she was the spokeswoman for the Thighmaster in a series of infomercials airing in the early 1990s. The Thighmaster was a piece of exercise equipment that is squeezed between one's thighs. During this period of her career, she also performed for US servicemen overseas.\n\nAt the height of her exposure as official spokesperson for Thighmaster infomercials, Somers made her first return to a series, although not on network television. In 1987, she starred in the sitcom \"She's the Sheriff\", which ran in first-run syndication. Somers portrayed a widow with two young kids who decided to fill the shoes of her late husband, a sheriff of a Nevada town. The show ran for two seasons.\n\nIn 1990, Somers returned to network TV, appearing in numerous guest roles and made-for-TV movies, mostly for ABC. Her roles in these, including the movie \"Rich Men, Single Women\", attracted the attention of Lorimar Television and Miller-Boyett Productions, who were developing a new sitcom. Somers had starred in the film with Heather Locklear, who inadvertently directed the focus of both production companies to Somers due to Locklear's starring role on \"Going Places\" (from Lorimar and Miller/Boyett). For Lorimar, this was asking Somers back, since they alone had produced \"She's the Sheriff\".\n\nIn September 1991, Somers returned to series TV in the sitcom \"Step By Step\" (with Patrick Duffy), which became a success on ABC's youth-oriented \"TGIF\" lineup. A week after the premiere of \"Step By Step\", a two-hour biopic of Somers starring the actress herself, entitled \"Keeping Secrets\" (based on her first autobiography of the same title), was broadcast on ABC. The movie chronicled Somers' troubled family life and upbringing, along with her subsequent rise to fame. Playing off her rejuvenated career, Somers also launched a daytime talk show in 1994, aptly titled \"Suzanne Somers\", which lasted one season. \"Step By Step\" continued on ABC until the end of its sixth season in 1997, whereupon the series moved to CBS that fall for what turned out to be its final season. With her sitcom now airing on CBS, Somers was chosen to co-host the network's revival of \"Candid Camera\" with Peter Funt, which began airing later that season.\n\nFrom 1997–99, Somers cohosted the revised \"Candid Camera\" show, when CBS chose to bring it back with Peter Funt. Somers stayed for two years before PAX TV renewed the series without her.\n\nIn summer 2005, Somers made her Broadway debut in a one-woman show, \"The Blonde in the Thunderbird\", a collection of stories about her life and career. The show was supposed to run until September, but was cancelled in less than a week after poor reviews and disappointing ticket sales. She blamed the harsh reviews (\"The New York Times\" referred to it as \"...a drab and embarrassing display of emotional exhibitionism masquerading as entertainment\") and told the \"New York Post\": \"These men [New York critics] are curmudgeons, and maybe I went too close to the bone for them. I was lying there naked, and they decided to kick me and step on me, just like these visions you see in Iraq.\"\n\nIn 2012, Somers began an online talk show, \"Suzanne Somers Breaking Through,\" at CafeMom. Three of the episodes featured a reunion with Joyce DeWitt, the two speaking with each other for the first time in 30 years.\n\nIn the fall of 2012, the Suzanne Show, hosted by Somers, aired for a 13-episode season on the Lifetime Network. Somers welcomed various guests covering a wide range of topics related to health and fitness.\n\nOn February 24, 2015, Somers was announced as one of the stars participating on the 20th season of \"Dancing with the Stars\". Her partner was professional dancer Tony Dovolani. Somers and Dovolani were eliminated on the fifth week of competition and finished in 9th place.\n\nSomers supports bioidentical hormone replacement therapy. Her book, \"Ageless\", includes interviews with 16 practitioners of bioidentical hormone therapy, but gives extra discussion to one specific approach, the 'Wiley Protocol'. Somers and T. S. Wiley, the originator of the Wiley Protocol, have been criticized for their advocacy of the Wiley Protocol. A group of seven doctors, all of whom utilize bioidentical hormone therapies to address health issues in women, issued a public letter to Somers and her publisher, Crown, in which they state that the protocol is \"scientifically unproven and dangerous\" and cite Wiley's lack of medical and clinical qualifications. The use of bioidentical hormone therapies is a very controversial area of medicine; its efficacy has never been tested and numerous groups have expressed concern over its safety and the misleading claims made by practitioners, which was the subject of an Associated Press article:\n\nIn 2001, Somers was diagnosed with breast cancer. She had a lumpectomy, and radiation, but declined to undergo chemotherapy. In November 2008, Somers announced she was diagnosed with inoperable cancer by six doctors, but she learned a week later that she was misdiagnosed. During this time, she interviewed doctors about cancer treatments and these interviews became the basis of her book, \"Knockout\", about alternative treatments to chemotherapy. In her book \"Knockout\", Somers promotes alternative cancer treatments, for which she was criticized by the American Cancer Society:\n\nShe is also opposed to water fluoridation. \n\nIn January 2013, she suggested that Adam Lanza went on his shooting spree at Sandy Hook Elementary School due to the level of toxins in his diet and the household cleaners he was exposed to. She stated that all these chemicals may \"overelectrify the brain\".\n\nA couple of episodes of \"South Park\" paid homage to Suzanne Somers; for instance, the episode \"Death\" references Suzanne Somers as the actress who stars in the reruns of \"She's The Sheriff\" which replaced the \"Terrance And Phillip\" series that was protested by parents. Another episode of South Park featured a product that endorsed this celebrity, but dubbed her name as \"Susanne Somers\" in which the product was \"calf exerciser\", in which Butters took the product name out-of-context when trying to care for calves (baby cows) since he didn't want them to turn into veal.\n\nThe \"Beavis And Butthead\" episode \"Killing Time\" mentioned Suzanne Somers as a \"supermodel\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2387780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2387780", "title": "The Constant Gardener", "text": "The Constant Gardener\n\nThe Constant Gardener is a 2001 novel by British author John le Carré. The novel tells the story of Justin Quayle, a British diplomat whose activist wife is murdered. Believing there is something behind the murder, he seeks to uncover the truth and finds an international conspiracy of corrupt bureaucracy and pharmaceutical money.\n\nThe plot was vaguely based on a real-life case in Kano, Nigeria. The book was later adapted into a feature film in 2005.\n\nJustin Quayle, a British diplomat in Nairobi, Kenya, is told that his activist wife, Tessa, was killed while travelling with a doctor friend in a desolate region of Africa. Investigating on his own, Quayle discovers that her murder, reportedly committed by her friend, may have had more sinister roots.\n\nJustin learns that Tessa had uncovered a corporate scandal involving medical experimentation in Africa. KVH (Karel Vita Hudson), a large pharmaceutical company working under the cover of AIDS tests and treatments, is testing a tuberculosis drug that has severe side effects. Rather than help the trial subjects and begin again with a new drug, KVH covered up the side effects and improved the drug only in anticipation of a massive multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis outbreak.\n\nJustin travels the world, often under assumed identities, to reconstruct the circumstances leading to Tessa's murder. As he begins to piece together Tessa's final report on the fraudulent drug tests, he learns that the roots of the conspiracy stretch further than he could have imagined; to a German pharmawatch NGO, an African aid station, and, most disturbingly to him, corrupt politicians in the British Foreign Office.\n\nJohn le Carré writes in the book's afterword: \"by comparison with the reality, my story [is] as tame as a holiday postcard\". The book is dedicated to Yvette Pierpaoli, a French activist who died during the course of her aid work.\n\nIn August of 2005, Focus Features released a film adaptation of \"The Constant Gardener\" directed by Fernando Meirelles, starring Ralph Fiennes and Rachel Weisz. The film grossed $33,565,375 in the US box office ($82,466,670 worldwide).\n"}
{"id": "3910156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3910156", "title": "Traditional birth attendant", "text": "Traditional birth attendant\n\nA traditional birth attendant (TBA), also known as a traditional midwife, community midwife or lay midwife, is a pregnancy and childbirth care provider. Traditional birth attendants provide the majority of primary maternity care in many developing countries, and may function within specific communities in developed countries.\n\nTraditional midwives provide basic health care, support and advice during and after pregnancy and childbirth, based primarily on experience and knowledge acquired informally through the traditions and practices of the communities where they originated. They usually work in rural, remote and other medically underserved areas. TBAs may not receive formal education and training in health care provision, and there are no specific professional requisites such as certification or licensure. A traditional birth attendant may have been formally educated and has chosen to not register. They often learn their trade through apprenticeship or are self-taught; in many communities one of the criteria for being accepted as a TBA by clients is experience as a mother. Many traditional midwives are also herbalists, or other traditional healers. They may or may not be integrated in the formal health care system. They sometimes serve as a bridge between the community and the formal health system, and may accompany women to health facilities for delivery.\n\nTraditional birth attendants are often older women, respected in their communities. They consider themselves as private health care practitioners who respond to requests for service. The focus of their work is to assist women during delivery and immediately post-partum. Frequently their assistance includes helping with household chores.\n\nTBAs may not have any formal training on how to attend pregnant women. Many are highly experienced in well woman care including how to recognize and respond appropriately to complications of pregnancy. It is a matter of discussion whether the lack of education in some TBAs and the way many attend deliveries are risky for the mothers and their babies. Evaluating the impact of these traditional practitioners on health outcomes requires taking into consideration additional factors such as poverty, availability of health services, or institutional support.\n\nIt is being increasingly recognized that TBAs may have a role to play in improving health outcomes in developing countries because of their access to communities and the relationships they share with women in local communities, especially if women are unable to access skilled care. Some countries, training institutes and non-governmental agencies are initiating efforts to train TBAs in basic and emergency obstetric care, family planning, and other maternal health topics, in order to enhance the links between modern health care services and the community, and to improve the chances for better health outcomes among mothers and babies. There are some findings that targeted interventions for training TBAs can lead to reduced perinatal mortality. However, there is little evidence of large-scale effectiveness of such programmes, as they are rarely integrated within a general strategy for improving maternal and child care.\n\nHistorically, Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA) have operated outside of the formal healthcare delivery structure. TBA training has been used as a means of extending health services to underserved communities in developing nations in hopes of decreasing mortality and morbidity. While the focus in the past two decades has been on training TBAs, studies on training impact has shown conflicting results in maternal outcomes with many studies showing little to no impact on high maternal mortality outcomes. As a result, there has been a shift toward skilled birth attendants, capable of averting and managing complications.\n\nThe TBA role in the community should not be overlooked; they are highly respected members and proven assets in addressing poor maternal outcomes. TBAs have been unsuccessful in handling obstetric complications, but have contributed to successful maternal, neonatal, and child health interventions, although there is insufficient evidence that TBA training improves peri-neonatal mortality. The key piece missing in TBA training is an adequate referral system, which allows TBAs to use their close ties with the community to link pregnant women to skilled birth attendants (SBA).\n\nThe effectiveness of TBA referrals to health facilities is dependent on the healthcare system’s ability to support an increase in services provided and the supervision needed to support TBA integration.\n\n“Five mechanisms for TBA integration were identified: training and supervision of TBAs; collaboration skills for health workers; inclusion of TBAs in facility-based activities; systems for communication between TBAs and SBAs; and defining roles for TBAs and SBAs.” \n\nWhile these mechanisms are important, complementary activities also influenced TBA referral and integration success: “careful selection of TBAs; community participation; health system development; and affordability changes.” TBA’s must be provided with appropriate knowledge, easy access to health personnel, and quality and regular supervision; all three components enable training to become a tool for TBA integration into the healthcare system. The referral training for TBAs allows them to act as “intermediaries between the community and the formal health care system.” Training that advocates collaboration and regular involvement in clinic duties, increases the number of referrals and improves communication.\n\nThe World Health Organization’s Strategies and Interventions for Obstetric Referrals:\n\n\n“Most maternal deaths from direct causes (such as hemorrhage, obstructed labor, infections, eclampsia, or unsafe abortions) could be prevented if women received timely care at critical moments.” On average, half of deliveries in the developing world have a skilled birth attendant present. With many deliveries outside of the health center, and an estimated 9-15% of deliveries requiring intervention, access to transportation and communication are critical to improve maternal and infant outcomes. Major contributing factors to maternal death are: “delay in recognizing danger signs, deciding to seek care, reaching care, and receiving care at health facilities”.\n\nMalawi: Communities have employed bicycle ambulances and oxcarts to transport pregnant women to health facilities. There were issues during the rainy season. The program later added ambulances, targeted information, education, maternity waiting, and focused education activities for decision makers in the family. The maternity waiting homes were rare because they required funds collected by the community.\n\nSierra Leone: The Ministry of Health used a radio system in conjunction with four-wheel-drive vehicles. This program has seen success. The program increased emergency referrals and the case fatality dropped.\n\nUganda: \n\nHonduras: Improved roads, communication, ambulances, and increased staffing and equipment increased referrals and reduced maternal mortality.\n\nSri Lanka: The Sri Lankan government provided three to five ambulances at each hospital. The program gave health workers the authority to organize, pay, and receive reimbursement for privately organized transportation.\n\nNigeria: Community leaders negotiated a contract with a local bus union to transport women with obstetric emergencies. The drivers received training and were reimbursed for fuel by a community fund. In the event of a death police and local authorities were made aware of the arrangement, so that bus drivers would not be held liable.\n\nWest Africa: Some countries in West Africa use a yellow flag as a signal to passing drivers that a laboring woman is in distress. Willing drivers stop and transport the woman to a health facility.\n\nUganda: UNFPA provides TBAs with solar-powered VHF-radio that connects directly to the health provider, walkie-talkies for TBAs, and ambulance services. UNFPA has reported success. UNFPA stresses the importance of both communication and transportation to improve service delivery of maternal health services.\n\nSierra Leone: Health staff used a two-way radio to communicate with other facilities to improve referrals and alert staff of their arrival and situation. A solar powered system worked better than a battery charged system. Communication difficulties were experienced in mountainous regions. Health centers resolved this issue by communicating to closer centers, which then communicated the message to the desired destination.\n\n\nIn developed countries, some traditional or lay midwives are becoming increasingly vocal in support of their right to practice without formal regulation, advocating for a woman's right to choose her place of birth and birth attendants. They see their role to include promoting change in societal attitudes towards birth, and favouring the \"art\" of midwifery founded on maternal or compassionate instincts, rather than over-medicalization of this natural event.\n\n"}
{"id": "31066197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31066197", "title": "United States v. Warshak", "text": "United States v. Warshak\n\nUnited States v. Warshak is a criminal case decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit holding that government agents violated the defendant's Fourth Amendment rights by compelling his Internet service provider (ISP) to turn over his emails without first obtaining a search warrant based on probable cause. However, constitutional violation notwithstanding, the evidence obtained with these emails was admissible at trial because the government agents relied in good faith on the Stored Communications Act (SCA). The court further declared that the SCA is unconstitutional to the extent that it allows the government to obtain emails without a warrant.\n\nThis case is notable because it is the first case from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals to explicitly hold that there is a reasonable expectation of privacy in the content of e-mails stored on third party servers and that the content of these emails is subject to Fourth Amendment protection.\n\nSteven Warshak owned and operated Berkeley Premium Nutraceuticals, Inc. (Berkeley) which sold, among other products, an herbal supplement marketed as a pill for natural male enhancement, called Enzyte.\nHis mother, Harriet Warshak, worked at Berkeley with him in the credit card department.\n\nIn 2001, Berkeley launched Enzyte and by 2004, Berkeley's annual sales approached $250 million, in large part due to the success of Enzyte.\nEnzyte was marketed extensively, and approximately 98% of the advertising was done on television featuring a character known as \"Smilin' Bob.\"\nIn some advertisements, Berkeley presented false information. Phony surveys were presented as fact at Warshak's request, the customer satisfaction rating of 96% was fabricated according to Warshak's request, and even the medical professionals who Berkeley claimed developed Enzyte were fictitious.\n\nSales of Berkeley's products occurred via telephone, email, and the Internet. Over the phone, Berkeley's sales force followed a script approved by Warshak designed to try to slip pertinent information past the customer. In the script, customers signing-up for a free trial were informed that they were being enrolled in an \"auto-ship\" program which would charge their credit card at the end of the first prescription period and send them a refill for their current prescription. To end this auto-shipping, customers had to opt out of the program. This program led to a large number of consumer complaints filed against Berkeley.\n\nThe auto-ship program and customers' dislike for this practice resulted in many orders being canceled. The canceled orders hurt Berkeley's reputation among banks and credit card companies who became reluctant to extend credit to Berkeley. To combat this, Warshak invented various ways of reducing the apparent percentage of refunded charges through questionable tactics. One tactic was to charge the customer's account multiple times for the same purchase, once for the purchase of the supplement and another time for shipping. Warshak referred to this as \"double dinging\". Later, he instituted the practice of \"triple dinging\" as well. Additionally, to secure other lines of credit, Warshak, along with his mother Harriet, provided false information to banks.\n\nMuch of the information about Warshak's questionable activities was contained in his email correspondence. In conjunction with a criminal investigation of Warshak and his questionable business practices, the government seized roughly 27,000 private emails from Warshak's ISP.\n\nOn June 12, 2006, Warshak filed a claim against the United States seeking a declaratory judgment and injunctive relief. Warshak claimed that the compelled disclosure violated his Fourth Amendment rights. The district court filed a preliminary injunction which was affirmed by the Sixth Circuit, finding that Warshak had a privacy interest in the content of his emails.\nHowever, that decision was reviewed by an en banc panel of the Sixth Circuit and vacated on ripeness grounds.\n\nIn September 2006, a grand jury in Ohio returned an indictment with more than 100 counts charging Warshak and his mother with various crimes including conspiracy to commit mail, wire, and bank fraud, mail fraud, bank fraud, and money laundering.\nWarshak moved before trial to exclude emails obtained from his ISP; which the court denied.\n\nIn January 2008, the case went to trial. Six weeks later Warshak and his mother were convicted of a majority of the charges. Shortly thereafter, a jury found that certain assets were sufficiently related to the crimes such that Warshak was ordered to forfeit illegally obtained gains.\n\nIn August 2008, the defendants were sentenced. Warshak received a prison term of 25 years, ordered to pay a fine of $93,000 and to forfeit the sums of $459,540,000 and $44,876,781.68 which represented the proceeds of the crimes. Harriet was sentenced to 24 months imprisonment and to be jointly and severally liable with Warshak for the forfeiture amounts.\n\nThe defendants appealed their convictions, sentences, and forfeiture judgments resulting in the opinion discussed here.\n\nThe court held that government agents infringed upon Warshak's Fourth Amendment rights when they compelled his ISP to produce the content of his emails without first obtaining a warrant based on probable cause. As the government agents operated in good faith on provisions of the Stored Communications Act, the exclusionary rule was not applicable and reversal of Warshak's convictions was not warranted.\n\nUnder the SCA, agents of the government can request access to emails using an administrative subpoena or by obtaining a court order, depending on certain statutory classifications.\nGovernment agents ordered Warshak's ISP to store emails citing 18 U.S.C. § 2703(f) as granting them that authority.\nThe government then ordered the ISP to turn over the content of Warshak's emails using a subpoena. Warshak was not informed that his ISP was archiving his email and he did not receive notice of the subpoena and order to his ISP until May 2006, nearly one year after the government served the subpoena.\n\nAs stated by the United States Supreme Court, the purpose of the Fourth Amendment is \"to safeguard the privacy and security of individuals against arbitrary invasions by government officials.\"\nTo fall under the protection of the Fourth Amendment, the invasion by government officials must arise to the level of a search, which occurs when the government infringes upon \"an expectation of privacy that society is prepared to consider reasonable.\"\nThus, there is a two-part inquiry to decide if an invasion by the government qualifies as an unreasonable search under the Fourth Amendment:\n\nAnalyzing the first prong of the two-part inquiry using the facts of the case, the Sixth Circuit found that Warshak manifested a subjective expectation of privacy in the content of his emails. The court reasoned that: \"[g]iven the often sensitive and sometimes damning substance of his emails, we think it highly unlikely that Warshak expected them to be made public, for people seldom unfurl their dirty laundry in plain view.\"\n\nThe court then proceeded to the second prong of the inquiry, whether society is willing to accept Warshak's expectation of privacy as reasonable. The court stated that the question is of grave importance because email communication has assumed a prominent role in today's society. Moreover, the Fourth Amendment must not fall behind technological advances or it will \"wither and die.\"\n\nThe court began by discussing traditional forms of communication such as letters and telephone calls. Each enjoys Fourth Amendment protection. This protection does not disappear even though intermediaries, such as the post office or a telephone company, are capable of accessing the content of communication. The court then stated that communication via email is akin to communication via letters and telephone calls because email is pervasive and can be personal. Furthermore, the court declared it would be incongruous to treat email, letters, and telephone calls differently because of the method of delivery. \"It follows that email requires strong protection under the Fourth Amendment; otherwise, the Fourth Amendment would prove an ineffective guardian of private communication, an essential purpose it has long been recognized to serve.\"\n\nAnalogizing email to letters and telephone calls, the court declared that an ISP is the functional equivalent of the post office or telephone company. The government cannot compel them to turn over the content of communications absent a warrant based on probable cause. \"It only stands to reason that, if government agents compel an ISP to surrender the contents of a subscriber’s emails, those agents have thereby conducted a Fourth Amendment search, which necessitates compliance with the warrant requirement absent some exception.\"\n\nThe threat of possible access by an ISP to the content of a subscriber's email does not defeat this reasonable expectation of privacy, the court continued. Both the post office and telephone companies have the ability to access and the right to access, under certain conditions, the contents of a communication, yet these facts do not eliminate Fourth Amendment protection. There may be some cases where the subscriber agreement may be broad enough to defeat a reasonable expectation of privacy in the content of a subscriber's email, but the court held that this was not such a situation.\n\nFinally, the court distinguished \"United States v. Miller\" which involved business records voluntarily given to a bank. Where \"Miller\" involved simple business records, the emails at issue here are personal and confidential and concern a wide variety of topics. Where the information in \"Miller\" was used in the ordinary course of business of the bank, the ISP here was an intermediary, not the intended recipient.\n\nThe court concluded that a subscriber enjoys a reasonable expectation of privacy in the contents of emails sent or received through, or stored with, a commercial ISP. Therefore, the government violated Warshak's Fourth Amendment rights when they obtained the contents of his emails. The court went on to declare: \"to the extent that the SCA purports to permit the government to obtain such emails warrantlessly, the SCA is unconstitutional.\"\n\nHowever, even though the government violated Warshak's Fourth Amendment rights, the illegally obtained emails were not subject to exclusionary rules of evidence because the agents of the government relied in good faith on the SCA.\n\"Consequently, we find that, although the government violated the Fourth Amendment, the exclusionary rule does not apply, as the government relied in good faith on [18 U.S.C.] § 2703(b) and § 2703(d) to access the contents of Warshak's emails.\"\nThe court held that the primary reason the exclusionary rule did not apply is because the deterrence rationale is lacking, quoting a prior decision, the court stated that \"...where an officer acts in objectively reasonable reliance upon a statute that is later found unconstitutional, exclusion of the evidence would not deter future police misconduct.\"\n\nAdditionally, the court sustained the convictions for conspiracy to commit mail, wire, and bank fraud, along with the convictions for mail fraud, bank fraud, and money laundering because the evidence was sufficient to support them. However, Warshak's sentence was vacated and remanded to the lower court because the court's previous ruling lacked an adequate explanation of losses to justify the sentence.\n\nThe Sixth Circuit held that the government violated Steven Warshak's Fourth Amendment rights when it compelled his ISP to turn over the contents of his email without a warrant based on probable cause. However, the emails were not excluded from evidence because the government agents relied in good faith on the provisions of the SCA. As a result, the Sixth Circuit:\n\nThe concurring opinion addressed the use of the SCA by the government to request that Warshak's ISP retain emails it would have otherwise deleted. Section 2703(f) of the SCA, according to Judge Keith, should have no prospective effect.\nThe government's request that the ISP preserve Warshak's stored and future email communications without notifying Warshak is analogous to tapping his telephone line without a warrant. This type of action would not survive a challenge under the Fourth Amendment: \"The government cannot use email collection as a means to monitor citizens without a warrant than they can tap a telephone line to monitor citizens without a warrant.\"\nHowever, because Judge Keith's interpretation of § 2703(f) did not affect the outcome of the case, he concurred in the result.\n\nThe Email Privacy Act, a bill introduced in the United States Congress, would codify the holding in \"Warshak\", applying its rule nationwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "11360327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11360327", "title": "University of Gondar", "text": "University of Gondar\n\nThe University of Gondar, until 2003 known as the Gondar College of Medical Sciences, is the oldest medical school in Ethiopia. Established as the Public Health College in 1954, it is located in Gondar, the former capital of Ethiopia.\n\nIn 2010, the university offered 42 undergraduate and 17 postgraduate programs. As of 2016, the University offers 56 undergraduate and 64 postgraduate. These are organized under the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, College of Business and Economics, College of Natural and Computational Sciences, College of Social Sciences and Humanities, and Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Faculty of Agriculture, and three schools (School of Law, School of Technology and School of Education).\nThe Public Health College was established following an agreement signed by the acting Ethiopian minister of public health, Marsae Hazan Wolde Qiros, and the government of the United States in April, 1954. The Ethiopian government signed a similar agreement with the World Health Organization September of that year. These agreements specified that the College would consist of four parts: a training school, a hospital, and \"awraja\" (regional district) and municipal health departments. As a result, the College played a significant role in improving public health in Gondar over the next few years.The training school's mission was to supply middle-level health professionals who would operate a network of health centers distributed across the country. Each center would be staffed by a health officer, a community nurse, a sanitarian and a laboratory technician, and was expected to care for about 50,000 people. The first health centers were built around Gondar, but as the Public Health College came to be responsible for the public health of Begemder Province as well, they were forced to build new centers ever further away.\n\nOne of the results of signing a new treaty between the United States and Ethiopia in June 1960 was the upgrade of the Public Health College to full college status. However, when Haile Selassie University (since renamed Addis Ababa University) became a chartered institution, it received the responsibility for all higher education in the country, and the Public Health College was made a part of the University. Its innovative program is based on field work, and its work to improve public health in Gondar and Begemder province were replaced by an emphasis on academic coursework which led to a Bachelor of Science in Public Health.\n\nWhile remaining part of Addis Ababa University, Gondar College was reorganized with the help of Karl Marx University in East Germany (now known as Leipzig University) in 1978; in 1992, the College regained its autonomy. The subsequent creation of a Faculty of Management Science and Economics, a Faculty of Social Sciences and Humanities and a Faculty of Applied Natural Sciences enabled the college to grow into University College in 2003; the following year the institution was renamed the University of Gondar.\n\n"}
{"id": "19098526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19098526", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in the Republic of Ireland\n\nWater supply and sanitation services in Ireland are governed primarily by the Water Services Acts of 2007 to 2014 and regulated by the Commission for Energy Regulation. Until 2015, the relevant legislation provided for the provision of water and wastewater services by local authorities in Ireland, with domestic usage funded indirectly through central taxation (including motor taxation), and non-domestic usage funded via local authority rates. From 2015, the legislation provided for the setup of a utility company, \"Irish Water\", which would be responsible for providing water and wastewater services, and funded through direct billing. The transition between these models, and certain aspects of operation of the new company, caused controversy in its initial period of operation.\n\nIn general in Ireland, water resources are abundant and 83% of drinking water comes from surface water. However, wastage levels were estimated at 800 million litres lost to leaks each day in 2015, while usage levels were calculated at 80 litres per capita per day in 2016. The quality of water from the public mains is usually quite high, with, for example, 98.9% of public water supplies complying with the standards for E. coli levels in 2004. However, the microbiological quality of some rural private group water schemes led to Ireland being cited in 2002 by the European Court of Justice for failing to abide by EU drinking water guidelines.\n\nFor wastewater treatment, 94% of wastewater collected in urban area sewers receives at least secondary treatment, and 1.6 billion litres of water are treated each day nationally. Wastewater infrastructure includes 25,000 km of pipes to approximately 1,000 wastewater treatment plants.\n\nWater resources are abundant in Ireland, with 82% of drinking water supplies in Ireland sourced from surface water (i.e. rivers and lakes) and 18% coming from groundwater – 10.5% from groundwater and 7.6% from springs. This high dependence on surface water is above the EU average. Approximately 2% of Ireland's water resources are abstracted for human use. Unaccounted for water constitutes 41% of total water supply, followed by supply for domestic demand (39%), and non-domestic demand (20%).\n80% of the Irish population is served by centralised water supplies. The remaining 20% is served by 643 public group water schemes (serving 2.3% of the population), 486 private group water schemes (serving 4.7%), 1,429 small private supplies (serving 0.7%) and private wells that are exempt from the regulations (serving 12.3%).\n\nDomestic water use is in line with other European countries, with daily domestic consumption of water per capita at approximately 80 litres in Ireland, compared to 121 litres in Germany and 114 litres in Denmark (all users are metered in the latter two countries). At 141m³ per inhabitant, Ireland has the third highest freshwater abstraction rate per inhabitant of 26 EU countries, ranked behind only Italy and Croatia.\n\nWater shortages have left some larger urban areas – particularly Dublin – with supply issues during prolonged dry spells. A 2006 feasibility study for the Greater Dublin water supply urged the development of a new water source, pointing out that it would be needed by 2015–2016 to avert water rationing and the curtailment of economic growth. It also noted that it would take at least a decade to build the proposed new source, with a 2007 report suggesting a lengthy pipeline to Dublin from Lough Derg and the Shannon.\n\n80% of the population is supplied by centralised public water systems. Public water supply systems and providers are governed by the Water Services Acts of 2007 to 2014. Until 2015, this legislation provided for the provision of water and wastewater services by local authorities, with domestic usage funded through central taxation, and non-domestic usage funded via local authority rates. From 2015, legislation came into force such that a new utility company, Irish Water, became responsible for providing water and wastewater services. The new company was set up as a subsidiary of an existing semi-state corporation, Bord Gáis (Ervia). The newly created company effectively took on the existing local authority employees and water management facilities, pipes and infrastructure. Operationally, Irish Water delegated some work, for example water meter installation and customer support, to sub-contractors.\n\n20% of the population is supplied by wells, small private supplies and public or private group schemes. Group water schemes are found in rural areas and are outside the scope of the centralised public mains systems. A group scheme is a scheme servicing water or wastewater services to two or more households not connected to the centralised water supply and/or wastewater collection systems. Group schemes are private or public, depending on whether their water is supplied from the public mains or a private source. All group schemes connected to centralised supplies are fitted with a water meter for monitoring the amount of water used by the group. The EPA 2011 report on drinking water quality in Ireland indicated that there were 1,129 group water schemes, serving 7% of the public, covered by the Drinking Water Regulations because they serve more than 50 people or supply a commercial operation. 643 are public group schemes and 486 are private group water schemes.\n\nThe National Federation of Group Water Schemes was established to represent the interests of members of group water schemes, and to provide advisory, training, developmental and other services to scheme members.\n\nThe quality of water from the public mains is usually quite high and compliant with EU drinking water standards. However, 2011 reports noted poor microbiological quality in some rural private group water schemes and groundwater and challenged the authorities then responsible for drinking water.\n\nIn 2007, there was an outbreak of waterborne cryptosporidiosis in Galway, which caused illness in over 240 people, and led to the imposition of a boil water notice in Galway for a period of 5 months during the peak tourist season. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), while \"many have taken the quality of drinking water in Ireland for granted in the past, this can no longer be the case\".\n\nOn 14 November 2002, authorities in Ireland were cited by the European Court of Justice over the microbiological contamination of hundreds of public and private water supplies. The EU's Drinking Water Directive requires an absence of E. coli in drinking water supplies to protect human health.\n\nThe Environmental Protection Agency's 2011 report on drinking water stated that drinking water quality in public water supplies was continuing to improve. At that time, chemical standard compliance stood at 99.5%. 1.3% of supplies were found to have had E.coli, a reduction of 86% since 2005. 10.2% of private group supplies had E.coli, down from 11.6% in 2010. 7.7% of small private supplies were found to have E.coli exceedences, down from 7.4% in 2010.\n\nIn October and November 2013, difficulties were encountered with the water supply to Dublin. The Ballymore Eustace water treatment works which processes water from its main supply, the Poulaphouca reservoir, experienced a change in water characteristics. The effect was that particles in the water would not settle, leaving tap water cloudy. As a result, the supply to the Dublin was restricted for two days.\n\nCryptosporidium contamination risk led to \"boil notices\" remaining in place in parts of County Roscommon for approximately six-years from 2009 to 2015.\n\nIn 2017 there was significant disruption to water supply services in parts of County Meath, County Louth and Drogheda, with 70,000 people without water for some time during July.\n\nThe proportion of waste water discharges where secondary treatment facilities have been provided increased significantly from 26% between 1998–1999 to 93% by 2011. This was due predominantly to the new wastewater treatment plants at Ringsend (Dublin) (which, at the time, was believed to be the largest construction of a new water treatment facility in Europe serving 1.5million people), Cork City, Limerick City, Galway City and Dundalk. The provision of secondary treatment facilities with nutrient reduction also increased.\n\nAccording to a 2011 EPA report, 11 of 174 agglomerations covered by the Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive did not have the required level of wastewater treatment, but were expected to have secondary treatment by 2015. 70% of agglomerations (larger urban areas in Ireland) were compliant with the requirements of the Directive in 2011, an improvement on 63% compliance in 2010 and 57% in 2009.\n\nAs of 2011, while 66% of households were connected to public sewerage schemes, with the majority in urban areas, 27.5% of households used an individual septic tank, and 3% adopted other individual sewerage systems.\n\nIn October 2009, the European Court of Justice ruled against Ireland regarding septic tanks and other on-site wastewater treatment systems. It deemed Ireland non-compliant with Articles 4 and 8 of the Waste Directive in relation to domestic wastewaters disposed of in the countryside. Ireland was fined €2 million and the court imposed daily fines of €12,000 for each day of delay in achieving compliance. Central to ending the case against Ireland was establishing a national inspection plan for domestic wastewater treatment systems. In 2012, the government passed the Water Services (Amendment) Act 2012, which provided for a new inspection system and which would require owners of septic tanks and other on-site treatment systems to register their systems. A new registration and inspection regime was introduced in June 2012. By July 2013, almost 90% of owners of premises connected with such systems had registered their systems. The government also announced details of a grant scheme for remedial work on a septic system.\n\nWater services authorities were historically responsible for the monitoring of drinking water. Local authorities were responsible for testing the quality of water, in conjunction with the Local Health Office (HSE). Under the 2007 Drinking Water Regulations, the EPA had supervisory powers for public water supplies, and could direct a water services authority to improve the management or quality of a public water supply. Where the EPA found deficiencies, it would make recommendations as to what action the water services authority needs to take to remedy any deficiency. Likewise, water services authorities had a supervisory role in relation to group water schemes and private supplies, and would notify the EPA of drinking water non-compliances or risks to public health from a public water supply. Since the formation of Irish Water, it is legally obliged to \"submit all drinking water quality results for compliance testing to the EPA on an annual basis\".\n\nPrior to 2013, there was no economic regulator for water supply and sanitation in Ireland. Under the 2013 Water Services Act and Water Services (Amendment) No. 2 Bill 2013, the Commission for Energy Regulation was assigned powers to advise the Minister for the Environment, Community and Local Government on the development and become the economic regulator of water services.\n\nIn 2013, €326 million was allocated by the Department of the Environment, Community and Local Government for infrastructural spending on water, corresponding to €71 per capita. \n\nIn July 2014 the Commission for Energy Regulation announced that the standard metered rate for water and wastewater would include 30m³ per year of free basic water, after which €4.88/m³ including taxes would be charged. Rates were to be capped until March 2015 at an annual fixed rate of €176 plus €102 for every additional adult living in a household.\n\nPrior to the formation of Irish Water, all water charges for domestic use in urban areas in Ireland were paid for by general taxation. Domestic use is defined as drinking, washing, heating and sanitation. There were approximately 1.35 million domestic water connections served by public water supplies. Members of rural group water schemes usually pay for domestic water and wastewater services. As part of a Programme of Assistance agreed with the EC-ECB-IMF 'troika' in November 2010, the Fianna Fáil-Green Party government committed to introducing domestic water charges in 2012/2013. This followed a commitment made in the Renewed Programme for Government, published in October 2009, to introduce charges based on a system of a free allowance per household, with charges on usage above the allowance. One month before the government's agreement with the troika,the administration's 'National Recovery Plan 2010–2014' stated that metering would form part of charges and be introduced by 2014. Domestic water charges, a requirement under the EC-ECB-IMF's Programme of Assistance, were to be introduced in Quarter 4 2014, with households receiving their first bills in Quarter 1 2015. Bills would be issued for usage in arrears, similar to those for electricity or gas.\n\nHouseholds were to receive a free allowance, with charges based on metered usage above the free allowance. Environment Minister Phil Hogan said households unmetered at the time of charges introduction would be charged on an assessed basis (e.g. dwelling type,number of people in a house etc.).\n\nNon-domestic customers pay a combined charge for water and wastewater. Local authorities set the rates. In 2013, the national average water rate stood at €1.13 per m³. The national average wastewater rate was €1.19 per m³. €2.37 per m³ is the average combined rate. Some variation exists in the local authorities' rates, with Kildare County Council having a combined rate of €1.59 per m³, in contrast with €3.04 per m³ charged by Wicklow County Council. The cost of water for industrial users has remained relatively static since 2007.\n\nUnder the EU's Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive 1991, local authorities are obliged to construct secondary and tertiary water treatment plants by 2008. New wastewater treatment plants were built in Dublin, Cork, Limerick and Galway between 2000 and 2011, generating additional capacity equivalent to the needs of a population of 3.96 million. Over the same period, drinking water treatment capacity has been increased by an amount sufficient to meet the needs of a population equivalent of 1.4 million people. The compliance level under the EU Urban Wastewater Treatment Directive increased from 25% to 93%. Under the government's 'Infrastructure and Capital Investment 2012–2016' blueprint, €1.58 billion in capital investment is to be allocated for water services between 2012–2016, with €326 million now earmarked for 2013. The majority of the funding will be channelled through the 2010–2013 Water Services Investment Programme, which is targeting reduction in leakage levels; improvements in drinking water standards; capacity and security of supply (including planning a new long-term source for the Greater Dublin Area) and wastewater discharges. Infrastructure under the Greater Dublin Strategic Drainage Strategy is also promised. \n\nFunding for maintaining and improving the water supply and sanitation infrastructure comes from the Department of Environment, Community and Local Government. Indirectly, substantial funding historically came from the European Union through its European Regional Development Fund. In addition, local authorities levy planning contributions mainly for small capital improvements. Group scheme members are entitled to a subsidy from their local authority. After the abolition of domestic water charges in 1997, it was intended that this scheme would extend those benefits to households supplied by group water schemes. The amount of subsidy is 100% of the qualifying expenditure, meaning that all running costs of the scheme are covered by the subsidy as long as they do not exceed the subsidy limit. The amount is around €50 per house per year. Group water schemes are also entitled to technical and grant assistance for any upgrading works that may need to be carried out.\n\nLeakage levels in Ireland currently stand at 41%, with considerable variation between local authorities, in part explained by corrosion of antiquated pipes. As part of the National Water Study, conducted in 2000, a water audit was undertaken for 91 water schemes outside Dublin to establish levels of non-revenue water (NRW). The report noted that the poor quality of data and the low level of consumer metering limited the reliability of their figures. They found an average level of NRW of 47%, corresponding to 34 litres/connection/hour and 29 m3/km/day. This compares to only 10.1 m3/km/day in England, Scotland 21.3 m3/km/day, Netherlands 1.6 m3/km/day and Denmark 1.7 m3/km/day.\n\nDomestic rates, which financed the cost of water services, were abolished for the first time by a Fianna Fáil government following the 1977 general election. In the same period, an increase took place in Income Tax and Value Added Tax. The revenue from these increases, and from borrowing (which was high during the late 1970s and early 1980s), was used to fund the local authorities. These had previously relied on domestic rates for their funding, but from this time the central government paid a \"rate support grant\" to local authorities.\n\nHowever, in 1983 the then Fine Gael-Labour government decided to cut this grant and passed legislation to allow councils to levy service charges. This was perceived by some as \"double taxation\", since the previously increased taxes remained at their high levels. Opponents also argued that rates were unrelated to consumption and that there were insufficient provisions to protect the poor.\n\nA number of councils decided to introduce water charges, while others such as Dublin initially decided against introducing them. After water charges were introduced in Dublin in 1994, an anti-water charges campaign was initiated and included demonstrations and a boycott of the new charges. The city threatened to cut the water supply to those who did not pay. After lengthy court battles, some non-paying users were cut off, but the non-payment of water charges continued.\nOn 19 December 1996, on the eve of general elections, the Minister for the Environment Brendan Howlin from the Labour Party of the Rainbow Government of Fine Gael–Labour Party–Democratic Left announced that the water charge was going to be replaced by a new system in which motor tax collected in each area would be the source for local council funding.\n\nDomestic water charges in Ireland were thus prohibited under the Local Government (Financial Provisions) Act 1997, passed in May 1997 shortly before the June 1997 general elections in which Fine Gael lost to Fianna Fáil under Bertie Ahern. However, because of popular discontent, the new government chose not to pursue domestic water charges. Instead, it embarked on consultations which resulted in the 1998 Water Services Pricing Policy. This policy banned cross-subsidy of domestic services from non-domestic charges. For non-domestic users, the policy required the recovery of average operational and marginal capital costs of water services from these users. It also foresaw the metering of all non-domestic users by 2006. Domestic operational costs were to be paid for through a local government fund, and capital costs were to be financed through the capital programme of the Department of the Environment, Community and Local Government.\n\nThe Water Services Bill 2003 was presented to the Oireachtas by then Environment Minister, Martin Cullen of Fianna Fáil. The bill was designed to consolidate Ireland's existing body of 15 different enactments into a single act, and to transpose EU water legislation. Cullen called it \"the first root and branch consolidation and modernisation of water services law for more than 120 years since the Public Health (Ireland) Act 1878\", adding that \"like the Victorian sewers which we have upgraded or replaced, this Bill replaces Victorian legislation with a new modern legal framework.\"\n\nIn September 2004 Cullen's successor, Environment Minister Dick Roche, also of Fianna Fáil, defended the proposed bill in Dáil Éireann. There he was faced with charges that the bill was a \"Trojan horse to introduce privatisation and domestic water charges\". The opposition also criticised the lack of a statutory right of access to water in the bill, lack of public participation in the review of proposed strategic plans, calling the bill \"a thinly disguised attempt to privatise the water supply\" as well as \"a formula to get around the 1997 Act and re-introduce water charges by another name.\" Ultimately, the bill was not passed.\n\nAccording to one commentator, if the Water Services Bill, 2003, had been passed earlier and implemented effectively, people would not now have had to boil their drinking water in Galway in 2007 because of an outbreak of cryptosporidiosis.\n\nIn May 2007, the Fianna Fáil-Progressive Democrats coalition enacted the Water Services Act 2007. As well as updating and consolidating existing legislation, the Act introduced a system to regulate group water schemes, assigned the EPA with supervisory responsibilities, and placed duties of care on water services users regarding water conservation.\n\nIn 2008, the Minister for the Environment, John Gormley, Green Party leader and former Lord Mayor of Dublin from 1994–1995 during the water charges conflict, said that domestic water charges would not be introduced during the lifetime of the government. He also said water shortages would be a key issue that Ireland would have to grapple with in the future. The Minister said there were other ways of tackling potential shortages which have already left some larger urban areas – particularly Dublin – struggling to meet demand during prolonged dry spells. The main focus of government policy would be to reduce the leakages from main water supply pipes.\n\nIn October 2009, however, Fianna Fáil and the Green Party agreed on a Renewed Programme for Government, which pledged to introduce domestic water charges based on a system of a free allowance per household, with charges only on usage in excess of the allowance. In October 2010, the administration's 'National Recovery Plan 2010–2014' pledged that metering would form part of charges. Metering was to be introduced by 2014. As part of the EC-ECB-IMF Programme of Assistance to Ireland, agreed in November 2010, the Coalition agreed to the introduction of domestic water charges in 2012/2013.\n\nIn March 2011, the new Fine Gael-Labour government's Programme for Government (2011–2016) contained commitments to a water policy similar to the previous government.\n\nIn January 2012, the Minister of Environment, Phil Hogan, announced a six-week consultation on a planned fundamental reform of the water sector. Following that, a metered domestic water charges would be introduced and a new public utility, Irish Water, would be established and take over responsibilities for drinking and waste water services from the local authorities. Independent economic regulation, through the Commission for Energy Regulation, would oversee the new utility's running costs, infrastructural investment plans and the design and level of domestic and non-domestic water charges.\n\nIn July 2013, Irish Water was legally established and began a national metering programme. The company was expected to initially install meters for approximately 1.05 million households. Domestic water charges were scheduled to commence in October 2014, with households receiving their first bills in Quarter 1 2015, with bills paid for usage in arrears. Irish Water would hence become the national water services authority, assuming all responsibilities for water services from local authorities - except for those relating to certain rural water services and inspections of wastewater treatment systems. Ireland's 34 local authorities were to continue to provide some drinking and waste water services on behalf of Irish Water through a service level agreement.\n\nFrom 2015, Irish Water became responsible for providing water and wastewater services, with the intention that the company would be funded through direct billing. The new company was set up as a subsidiary of an existing semi-state corporation, Bord Gáis (Ervia). The newly created company took on the existing local authority employees and water management facilities, pipes and infrastructure. While Irish Water initially issued bills and was funded through payment from residential users, by 2017 the scale of protest and push-back against charges resulted in the suspension and ultimately scrapping of the funding model.\n\n"}
{"id": "24987602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24987602", "title": "Waterborne Disease and Outbreak Reporting System", "text": "Waterborne Disease and Outbreak Reporting System\n\nThe Waterborne Disease and Outbreak Surveillance System (WBDOSS) is a national surveillance system maintained by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The WBDOSS receives data about waterborne disease outbreaks and single cases of waterborne diseases of public health importance (for example, Primary Amebic Meningoencephalitis (PAM)) in the United States and then disseminates information about these diseases, outbreaks, and their causes. WBDOSS was initiated in 1971 by CDC, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Data are reported by public health departments in individual states, territories, and the Freely Associated States (composed of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of Palau; formerly parts of the U.S.-administered Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands). Although initially designed to collect data about drinking water outbreaks in the United States, WBDOSS now includes outbreaks associated with recreational water, as well as outbreaks associated with water that is not intended for drinking (non-recreational) and water for which the intended use is unknown.\n\nWaterborne disease outbreaks may be associated with recreational water, water intended for drinking, water not intended for drinking (non-recreational water, for example, from cooling towers or ornamental fountains) and water of unknown intent. In order for a waterborne disease outbreak to be included in WBDOSS there must be an epidemiologic link between two or more persons that includes a location of water exposure, a clearly defined time period for the water exposure, and one or more waterborne illnesses caused by pathogens such as bacteria, parasites and viruses, or by chemicals/toxins. Common routes of exposure to waterborne pathogens include swallowing contaminated water, inhaling water droplets or airborne chemicals from the water, and direct physical contact with contaminated water. Epidemiologic evidence must implicate water or volatile compounds from the water that have entered the air as the probable source of the illness. WBDOSS outbreaks are further evaluated and classified based on the strength of evidence in the outbreak report that implicates water as the source of the outbreak. Waterborne disease outbreaks that have both strong epidemiologic data and comprehensive water-quality testing data are assigned a higher class than outbreaks with weak epidemiologic data and little or no water-quality testing data.\n\nPublic health departments investigate waterborne disease outbreaks in states, territories, and Freely Associated States and are essential contributors to the WBDOSS. The primary reporting tool for WBDOSS prior to 2009 was the CDC 52.12 waterborne disease outbreak reporting form. Beginning in 2009, this form was replaced by the electronic National Outbreak Reporting System (NORS). Secondary data sources include case reports of water-associated cases of PAM caused by \"Naegleria fowleri\" infections, case reports for chemical/toxin poisoning and wound infections (reported sporadically), data about recreational water-associated \"Vibrio\" cases from the Cholera and Other \"Vibrio\" Surveillance System, and case reports for pool chemical-related health events not associated with recreational water (reported sporadically.\n\nCDC has published WBDOSS surveillance summaries on an annual or biennial basis since 1971. Summary statistics and descriptions of waterborne disease outbreaks were published in CDC reports until 1984 and have been published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) since 1985. Public health researchers and policy makers use the data to understand and reduce waterborne disease and outbreaks. WBDOSS data are available to support EPA efforts to improve drinking water quality and to provide direction for CDC’s recreational water activities, such as the Healthy Swimming program.\n\nNational Outbreak Reporting System (NORS)\n\n"}
{"id": "44070084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44070084", "title": "Wheelchair cushion", "text": "Wheelchair cushion\n\nWheelchair cushions are cushions specifically designed to provide comfort and protection against injury for wheelchair users. They also aid in properly positioning the user in the correct posture.\n\nWheelchair users are at great risk for pressure sores. A number of factors are included in the formation of these ulcers including: \nA number of studies point to interface pressure between the body and the seating surface as the primary contributor to the formation of pressure sores. In response, manufacturers have developed a number of wheelchair seat cushion alternatives. Over 200 models of wheelchair cushions were on the market as of 2001.\n\nVarious characteristics, combined with a number of cover material options, offer a myriad of possibilities, which can be manipulated to provide various performance properties. These properties are intended to provide the wheelchair user optimal comfort, stability, and postural support, as well as aid in the prevention of pressure ulcers.\n\nThe effectiveness of a particular choice of material and design has high variance with respect to a user's medical needs and activities. For instance, if a wheelchair user frequently moves on rough surfaces, gel cushions are less optimal as they are not as effective at absorbing impact.\n\nSprigle et al. proposed the following criteria for defining and describing cushion characteristics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1734336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1734336", "title": "World Health Day", "text": "World Health Day\n\nThe World Health Day is a global health awareness day celebrated every year on 7 April, under the sponsorship of the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as other related organizations.\n\nIn 1948, the WHO held the First World Health Assembly. The Assembly decided to celebrate 7 April of each year, with effect from 1950, as the World Health Day. The World Health Day is held to mark WHO's founding, and is seen as an opportunity by the organization to draw worldwide attention to a subject of major importance to global health each year. The WHO organizes international, regional and local events on the Day related to a particular theme. World Health Day is acknowledged by various governments and non-governmental organizations with interests in public health issues, who also organize activities and highlight their support in media reports, such as the Global Health Council.\n\nWorld Health Day is one of eight official global health campaigns marked by WHO, along with World Tuberculosis Day, World Immunisation Week, World Malaria Day, World No Tobacco Day, World AIDS Day, World Blood Donor Day, and World Hepatitis Day.\n\nIn 2006, World Health Day was devoted to the health workforce crisis, or chronic shortages of health workers around the world due to decades of underinvestment in their education, training, salaries, working environment and management. The day was also meant to celebrate individual health workers – the people who provide health care to those who need it, in other words those at the heart of health systems.\n\nThe Day also marked the launch of the WHO's \"World Health Report 2006\", which focused on the same theme. The report contained an assessment of the current crisis in the global health workforce, revealing an estimated shortage of almost 4.3 million physicians, midwives, nurses and other health care providers worldwide, and further proposed a series of actions for countries and the international community to tackle it.\n\n\nIn 2008, World Health Day focused on the need to protect health from the adverse effects of climate change and establish links between climate change and health and other development areas such as environment, food, energy, transport.\n\nThe theme \"protecting health from climate change\" put health at the centre of the global dialogue about climate change. WHO selected this theme in recognition that climate change is posing ever growing threats to global public health security.\n\nWorld Health Day 2009 focused on the safety of health facilities and the readiness of health workers who treat those affected by emergencies. Health centres and staff are critical lifelines for vulnerable people in disasters – treating injuries, preventing illnesses and caring for people's health needs. Often, already fragile health systems are unable to keep functioning through a disaster, with immediate and future public health consequences.\n\nFor this year's World Health Day campaign, WHO and international partners underscored the importance of investing in health infrastructure that can withstand hazards and serve people in immediate need, and urged health facilities to implement systems to respond to internal emergencies, such as fires, and ensure the continuity of care.\n\nWith the campaign \"1000 cities, 1000 lives\", events were organized worldwide during the week starting 7 April 2010. The global goals of the campaign were:\n\nThe theme of World Health Day 2011, marked on 7 April 2011, was \"Antimicrobial resistance and its global spread\" and focused on the need for governments and stakeholders to implement the policies and practices needed to prevent and counter the emergence of highly resistant microorganisms.\n\nWhen infections caused by resistant microorganisms fail to respond to standard treatments, including antibiotics and other antimicrobial medicines – also known as drug resistance – this may result in prolonged illness and greater risk of death.\n\nOn World Health Day 2011, WHO called for intensified global commitment to safeguard antimicrobial medicines for future generations. The organization introduced a six-point policy package to combat the spread of antimicrobial resistance:\n\nWorld Health Day 2012 was marked with the slogan \"Good health adds life to years\". Life expectancy is going up in most countries, meaning more and more people live longer and enter an age when they may need health care. Meanwhile, birth rates are generally falling. Countries and health care systems need to find innovative and sustainable ways to cope with the demographic shift. As stated by John Beard, director of the WHO Department of Ageing and Life Course, \"With the rapid ageing of populations, finding the right model for long-term care becomes more and more urgent.\"\n\nDifferent activities were organized by WHO as well as non-governmental and community organizations around the world to mark World Health Day 2012. For example, Yogathon (an Art of Living Initiative) – a marathon of Surya Namaskar – happened in 100+ cities across the globe. Millions of people participated in that event to make awareness of Yoga as a part of healthy living.\nThe event focused on prevention and not just medical treatment of chronic diseases, which remain unaffordable to many people.\n\nThe theme of World Health Day 2013, marked on 7 April 2013, was the need to control raised blood pressure (hypertension) as a \"silent killer, global public health crisis\". The slogan for the campaign was \"Healthy Heart Beat, Healthy Blood Pressure”. The WHO reports hypertension – which is both preventable and treatable – contributes to the burden of heart disease, stroke and kidney failure, and is an important cause of premature death and disability. The organization estimates one in 3 adults has raised blood pressure.\n\nSpecific objectives of the World Health Day 2013 campaign were to:\n\nWorld Health Day 2014 put the spotlight on some of the most commonly known vectors – such as mosquitoes, sandflies, bugs, ticks and snails – responsible for transmitting a wide range of parasites and pathogens that can cause many different illnesses. Mosquitoes, for example, transmit malaria – the most deadly vector-borne disease, causing an estimated 660 000 deaths annually worldwide – as well as dengue fever, lymphatic filariasis, chikungunya, Japanese encephalitis and yellow fever. More than half of the world’s population is at risk of these diseases.\n\nThe goal of the World Health Day 2014 campaign was better protection from vector-borne diseases, especially for families living in areas where diseases are transmitted by vectors, and travelers to countries where they pose a health threat. The campaign advocated for health authorities in countries where vector-borne diseases are a public health problem or emerging threat, to put in place measures to improve surveillance and protection.\n\nThe WHO promoted improvement of food safety as part of the 2015 World Health Day campaign. Unsafe food — food containing harmful bacteria, viruses, parasites or chemical substances — is responsible for more than 200 diseases, and is linked to the deaths of some 2 million people annually, mostly children. Changes in food production, distribution and consumption; changes to the environment; new and emerging pathogens; and antimicrobial resistance all pose challenges to food safety systems.\n\nThe WHO works with countries and partners to strengthen efforts to prevent, detect and respond to foodborne disease outbreaks in line with the Codex Alimentarius, advocating that food safety is a shared responsibility — from farmers and manufacturers to vendors and consumers — and raising awareness about the importance of the part everyone can play in ensuring that the food on our plate is safe to eat.\n\nThe WHO focused World Health Day 2016, on diabetes – a largely preventable and treatable non-communicable disease that is rapidly increasing in numbers in many countries, most dramatically in low- and middle-income countries. Simple lifestyle measures have been shown to be effective in preventing or delaying the onset of type 2 diabetes, including maintaining normal body weight, engaging in regular physical activity, and eating a healthy diet. Diabetes can be controlled and managed to prevent complications through diagnosis, self-management education, and affordable treatment. The WHO estimates about 422 million people in the world have diabetes, with the disease the direct cause of some 1.5 million deaths. The goals of WHD 2016 are (1) scale up prevention, (2) strengthen care, and (3) enhance surveillance.\n\nWorld Health Day 2017, celebrated on 7 April, aims to mobilize action on depression. This condition affects people of all ages, from all walks of life, in all countries. It impacts on people’s ability to carry out everyday tasks, with consequences for families, friends, and even communities, workplaces, and health care systems. At worst, depression can lead to self-inflicted injury and suicide. A better understanding of depression – which can be prevented and treated – will help reduce the stigma associated with the illness, and lead to more people seeking help.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6642768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6642768", "title": "Your Health Now", "text": "Your Health Now\n\nYour Health Now was a free, bi-monthly health magazine provided by Merck & Co., Inc.. The magazine was launched in September 2005 and was available by mail, online, and in doctors’ offices. The magazine was headquartered in Whitehouse Station, New Jersey.\n\nEvery issue included articles on various health topics, updates on patient assistance programs, an “Ask the Doctors” section in which reader questions are answered by medical experts, and information on caring for your pet. The magazine was based on information from The Merck Manuals and reviewed by an independent board of medical professionals and patient advocacy organizations.\n\nIn 2006 the magazine started a Spanish version.\n\n"}
