{"id": "326279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=326279", "title": "Aerial photography", "text": "Aerial photography\n\nAerial photography (or airborne imagery) is the taking of photographs from an aircraft or other flying object. Platforms for aerial photography include fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs or \"drones\"), balloons, blimps and dirigibles, rockets, pigeons, kites, parachutes, stand-alone telescoping and vehicle-mounted poles. Mounted cameras may be triggered remotely or automatically; hand-held photographs may be taken by a photographer.\n\nAerial photography should not be confused with air-to-air photography, where one or more aircraft are used as chase planes that \"chase\" and photograph other aircraft in flight.\n\nAerial photography was first practiced by the French photographer and balloonist Gaspard-Félix Tournachon, known as \"Nadar\", in 1858 over Paris, France. However, the photographs he produced no longer exist and therefore the earliest surviving aerial photograph is titled 'Boston, as the Eagle and the Wild Goose See It.' Taken by James Wallace Black and Samuel Archer King on October 13, 1860, it depicts Boston from a height of 630m.\nKite aerial photography was pioneered by British meteorologist E.D. Archibald in 1882. He used an explosive charge on a timer to take photographs from the air. Frenchman Arthur Batut began using kites for photography in 1888, and wrote a book on his methods in 1890. Samuel Franklin Cody developed his advanced 'Man-lifter War Kite' and succeeded in interesting the British War Office with its capabilities.\n\nThe first use of a motion picture camera mounted to a heavier-than-air aircraft took place on April 24, 1909, over Rome in the 3:28 silent film short, \"Wilbur Wright und seine Flugmaschine\".\n\nThe use of aerial photography rapidly matured during the war, as reconnaissance aircraft were equipped with cameras to record enemy movements and defences. At the start of the conflict, the usefulness of aerial photography was not fully appreciated, with reconnaissance being accomplished with map sketching from the air.\n\nGermany adopted the first aerial camera, a Görz, in 1913. The French began the war with several squadrons of Blériot observation aircraft equipped with cameras for reconnaissance. The French Army developed procedures for getting prints into the hands of field commanders in record time.\n\nFrederick Charles Victor Laws started aerial photography experiments in 1912 with No.1 Squadron of the Royal Flying Corps (later No. 1 Squadron RAF), taking photographs from the British dirigible \"Beta\". He discovered that vertical photos taken with 60% overlap could be used to create a stereoscopic effect when viewed in a stereoscope, thus creating a perception of depth that could aid in cartography and in intelligence derived from aerial images. The Royal Flying Corps recon pilots began to use cameras for recording their observations in 1914 and by the Battle of Neuve Chapelle in 1915, the entire system of German trenches was being photographed. In 1916 the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy made vertical camera axis aerial photos above Italy for map-making.\nThe first purpose-built and practical aerial camera was invented by Captain John Moore-Brabazon in 1915 with the help of the Thornton-Pickard company, greatly enhancing the efficiency of aerial photography. The camera was inserted into the floor of the aircraft and could be triggered by the pilot at intervals. Moore-Brabazon also pioneered the incorporation of stereoscopic techniques into aerial photography, allowing the height of objects on the landscape to be discerned by comparing photographs taken at different angles.\n\nBy the end of the war aerial cameras had dramatically increased in size and focal power and were used increasingly frequently as they proved their pivotal military worth; by 1918 both sides were photographing the entire front twice a day, and had taken over half a million photos since the beginning of the conflict. In January 1918, General Allenby used five Australian pilots from No. 1 Squadron AFC to photograph a area in Palestine as an aid to correcting and improving maps of the Turkish front. This was a pioneering use of aerial photography as an aid for cartography. Lieutenants Leonard Taplin, Allan Runciman Brown, H. L. Fraser, Edward Patrick Kenny, and L. W. Rogers photographed a block of land stretching from the Turkish front lines deep into their rear areas. Beginning 5 January, they flew with a fighter escort to ward off enemy fighters. Using Royal Aircraft Factory BE.12 and Martinsyde airplanes, they not only overcame enemy air attacks, but also had to contend with winds, antiaircraft fire, and malfunctioning equipment to complete their task.\n\nThe first commercial aerial photography company in the UK was Aerofilms Ltd, founded by World War I veterans Francis Wills and Claude Graham White in 1919. The company soon expanded into a business with major contracts in Africa and Asia as well as in the UK. Operations began from the Stag Lane Aerodrome at Edgware, using the aircraft of the London Flying School. Subsequently, the Aircraft Manufacturing Company (later the De Havilland Aircraft Company), hired an Airco DH.9 along with pilot entrepreneur Alan Cobham.\nFrom 1921, Aerofilms carried out vertical photography for survey and mapping purposes. During the 1930s, the company pioneered the science of photogrammetry (mapping from aerial photographs), with the Ordnance Survey amongst the company's clients. In 1920, the Australian Milton Kent started using a half-plate oblique aero camera purchased from Carl Zeiss AG in his aerial photographic business.\n\nAnother successful pioneer of the commercial use of aerial photography was the American Sherman Fairchild who started his own aircraft firm Fairchild Aircraft to develop and build specialized aircraft for high altitude aerial survey missions. One Fairchild aerial survey aircraft in 1935 carried unit that combined two synchronized cameras, and each camera having five six inch lenses with a ten-inch lenses and took photos from 23,000 feet. Each photo covered two hundred and twenty five square miles. One of its first government contracts was an aerial survey of New Mexico to study soil erosion. A year later, Fairchild introduced a better high altitude camera with nine-lens in one unit that could take a photo of 600 square miles with each exposure from 30,000 feet.\n\nIn 1939 Sidney Cotton and Flying Officer Maurice Longbottom of the RAF were among the first to suggest that airborne reconnaissance may be a task better suited to fast, small aircraft which would use their speed and high service ceiling to avoid detection and interception. Although this seems obvious now, with modern reconnaissance tasks performed by fast, high flying aircraft, at the time it was radical thinking.\n\nThey proposed the use of Spitfires with their armament and radios removed and replaced with extra fuel and cameras. This led to the development of the Spitfire PR variants. Spitfires proved to be extremely successful in their reconnaissance role and there were many variants built specifically for that purpose. They served initially with what later became No. 1 Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU). In 1928, the RAF developed an electric heating system for the aerial camera. This allowed reconnaissance aircraft to take pictures from very high altitudes without the camera parts freezing. Based at RAF Medmenham, the collection and interpretation of such photographs became a considerable enterprise.\n\nCotton's aerial photographs were far ahead of their time. Together with other members of the 1 PRU, he pioneered the techniques of high-altitude, high-speed stereoscopic photography that were instrumental in revealing the locations of many crucial military and intelligence targets. According to R.V. Jones, photographs were used to establish the size and the characteristic launching mechanisms for both the V-1 flying bomb and the V-2 rocket. Cotton also worked on ideas such as a prototype specialist reconnaissance aircraft and further refinements of photographic equipment. At the peak, the British flew over 100 reconnaissance flights a day, yielding 50,000 images per day to interpret. Similar efforts were taken by other countries.\n\nAerial photography is used in cartography (particularly in photogrammetric surveys, which are often the basis for topographic maps), land-use planning, archaeology, movie production, environmental studies, power line inspection, surveillance, commercial advertising, conveyancing, and artistic projects. An example of how aerial photography is used in the field of archaeology is the mapping project done at the site Angkor Borei in Cambodia from 1995–1996. Using aerial photography, archaeologists were able to identify archaeological features, including 112 water features (reservoirs, artificially constructed pools and natural ponds) within the walled site of Angkor Borei. In the United States, aerial photographs are used in many Phase I Environmental Site Assessments for property analysis.\n\nIn the United States, except when necessary for take off and landing, full-sized manned aircraft are prohibited from flying at altitudes under 1000 feet over congested areas and not closer than 500 feet from any person, vessel, vehicle or structure over non-congested areas. Certain exceptions are allowed for helicopters, powered parachutes and weight-shift-control aircraft.\n\nAdvances in radio controlled models have made it possible for model aircraft to conduct low-altitude aerial photography. This had benefited real-estate advertising, where commercial and residential properties are the photographic subject when in 2014 the US Federal Aviation Administration, issued an order banning the use of \"Drones\" in any commercial application related to photographs for use in real estate advertisements. This ban has since been lifted, as the FAA Part 107 regulations for small UAS became effective on August 29, 2016.\n\nSmall scale model aircraft offer increased photographic access to these previously restricted areas. Miniature vehicles do not replace full size aircraft, as full size aircraft are capable of longer flight times, higher altitudes, and greater equipment payloads. They are, however, useful in any situation in which a full-scale aircraft would be dangerous to operate. Examples would include the inspection of transformers atop power transmission lines and slow, low-level flight over agricultural fields, both of which can be accomplished by a large-scale radio controlled helicopter. Professional-grade, gyroscopically stabilized camera platforms are available for use under such a model; a large model helicopter with a 26cc gasoline engine can hoist a payload of approximately seven kilograms (15 lbs). In addition to gyroscopically stabilized footage, the use of RC copters as reliable aerial photography tools increased with the integration of FPV (first-person-view) technology. Many radio-controlled aircraft are now capable of utilizing Wi-Fi to stream live video from the aircraft's camera back to the pilot's or pilot in command's (PIC) ground station.\n\nIn Australia Civil Aviation Safety Regulation 101 (CASR 101) allows for commercial use of radio control aircraft. Under these regulations radio controlled unmanned aircraft for commercial are referred to as Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), where as radio controlled aircraft for recreational purposes are referred to as model aircraft. Under CASR 101, businesses/persons operating radio controlled aircraft commercially are required to hold an operator certificate, just like manned aircraft operators. Pilots of radio controlled aircraft operating commercially are also required to be licensed by the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA). Whilst a small UAS and model aircraft may actually be identical, unlike model aircraft, a UAS may enter controlled airspace with approval, and operate within close proximity to an aerodrome.\n\nDue to a number of illegal operators in Australia making false claims of being approved, CASA maintains and publishes a list of approved UAS operators. However, CASA has modified the regulations and from the 29th of September 2016 drones under 2 kg may be operated for commercial purposes.\n\n2006 FAA regulations grounding all commercial RC model flights have been upgraded to require formal FAA certification before permission is granted to fly at any altitude in the US.\n\nJune 25, 2014, The FAA, in ruling 14 CFR Part 91 [Docket No. FAA–2014–0396] \"Interpretation of the Special Rule for Model Aircraft\", banned the commercial use of unmanned aircraft over U.S. airspace. On September 26, 2014, the FAA began granting the right to use drones in aerial filmmaking. Operators are required to be licensed pilots and must keep the drone in view at all times. Drones cannot be used to film in areas where people might be put at risk.\n\nThe FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 established, in Section 336, a special rule for model aircraft. In Section 336, Congress confirmed the FAA’s long-standing position that model aircraft are aircraft. Under the terms of the Act, a model aircraft is defined as \"an unmanned aircraft\" that is \"(1) capable of sustained flight in the atmosphere; (2) flown within visual line of sight of the person operating the aircraft; and (3) flown for hobby or recreational purposes.\"\n\nBecause anything capable of being viewed from a public space is considered outside the realm of privacy in the United States, aerial photography may legally document features and occurrences on private property.\n\nThe FAA can pursue enforcement action against persons operating model aircraft who endanger the safety of the national airspace system. Public Law 112–95, section 336(b).\n\nJune 21, 2016, the FAA released its summary of small unmanned aircraft rules (Part 107). The rules established guidelines for small UAS operators including operating only during the daytime, a 400 ft. ceiling and pilots must keep the UAS in visual range.\n\nApril 7, 2017, the FAA announced special security instructions under 14 CFR § 99.7. Effective April 14, 2017, all UAS flights within 400 feet of the lateral boundaries of U.S. military installations are prohibited unless a special permit is secured from the base and/or the FAA.\n\nAerial photography in the UK has tight regulations as to where a drone is able to fly.\n\nAerial Photography on Light aircraft under 20 kg. Basic Rules for non commercial flying Of a SUA (Small Unmanned Aircraft).\n\nArticle 241 Endangering safety of any person or property.\nA person must not recklessly or negligently cause or permit an aircraft to endanger\nany person or property.\n\nArticle 94 small unmanned aircraft\n1. A person must not cause or permit any article or animal (whether or not attached to a parachute) to be dropped from a small unmanned aircraft so as to endanger persons or property.\n\n2. The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft may only fly the aircraft if reasonably satisfied that the flight can safely be made.\n\n3. The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft must maintain direct, unaided visual contact with the aircraft sufficient to monitor its flight path in relation to other aircraft, persons, vehicles, vessels and structures for the purpose of avoiding collisions. (500metres)\n\n4. The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft which has a mass of more than 7 kg excluding its fuel but including any articles or equipment installed in or attached to the aircraft at the commencement of its flight, must not fly the aircraft:\n4.1 In Class A, C, D or E airspace unless the permission of the appropriate air traffic control unit has been obtained;\n4.2 Within an aerodrome traffic zone during the notified hours of watch of the air traffic control unit (if any) at that aerodrome unless the permission of any such air traffic control unit has been obtained;\n4.3 At a height of more than 400 feet above the surface\n\n5. The person in charge of a small unmanned aircraft must not fly the aircraft for the purposes of commercial operations except in accordance with a permission granted by the CAA.\n\nArticle 95 small unmanned surveillance aircraft\n1. You Must not fly your aircraft over or within 150 metres of any congested Area. (This is quite vague, err on the side of caution if an accident did happen, it’s the authorities view against you).\n\n2. Over or within 150 metres of an organised open-air assembly of more than 1,000 persons.\n\n3. Within 50 metres of any vessel, vehicle or structure which is not under the control of the person in charge of the aircraft.\n\n4. Within 50 metres of any person, during take-off or landing, a small unmanned surveillance aircraft must not be flown within 30 metres of any person. This does not apply to the person in charge of the small unmanned surveillance aircraft or a person under the control of the person in charge of the aircraft.\n\nModel aircraft with a mass of more than 20 kg are termed ‘Large Model Aircraft’ – within the UK, large model aircraft may only be flown in accordance with an Exemption from the ANO, which must be issued by the CAA.\n\nDronesafe is a website Developed to help your flying stay safe and legal in the UK in conjunction with NATS (National Air Traffic Services) Look at the Dronesafe website for more information.\n\nFull details on the process to be followed for Large Model Aircraft can be found in CAP 658 on the CAA website\n\nAerial Work on larger manned aircraft can be found here CAA\n\nCommercial Permissions Information \n</ref>\n\nPhotographs taken at an angle are called \"oblique photographs\". If they are taken from a low angle relative to the earth's surface, they are called \"low oblique\" and photographs taken from a high angle are called \"high\" or \"steep oblique\".\n\nVertical photographs are taken straight down. They are mainly used in photogrammetry and image interpretation. Pictures that will be used in photogrammetry are traditionally taken with special large format cameras with calibrated and documented geometric properties.\n\nAerial photographs are often combined. Depending on their purpose it can be done in several ways, of which a few are listed below.\n\nVertical photographs are often used to create orthophotos, alternatively known as orthophotomaps, photographs which have been geometrically \"corrected\" so as to be usable as a map. In other words, an orthophoto is a simulation of a photograph taken from an infinite distance, looking straight down to nadir. Perspective must obviously be removed, but variations in terrain should also be corrected for. Multiple geometric transformations are applied to the image, depending on the perspective and terrain corrections required on a particular part of the image.\n\nOrthophotos are commonly used in geographic information systems, such as are used by mapping agencies (e.g. Ordnance Survey) to create maps. Once the images have been aligned, or \"registered\", with known real-world coordinates, they can be widely deployed.\n\nLarge sets of orthophotos, typically derived from multiple sources and divided into \"tiles\" (each typically 256 x 256 pixels in size), are widely used in online map systems such as Google Maps. OpenStreetMap offers the use of similar orthophotos for deriving new map data. Google Earth overlays orthophotos or satellite imagery onto a digital elevation model to simulate 3D landscapes.\n\nWith advancements in video technology, aerial video is becoming more popular. Orthogonal video is shot from aircraft mapping pipelines, crop fields, and other points of interest. Using GPS, video may be embedded with meta data and later synced with a video mapping program.\n\nThis \"Spatial Multimedia\" is the timely union of digital media including still photography, motion video, stereo, panoramic imagery sets, immersive media constructs, audio, and other data with location and date-time information from the GPS and other location designs.\n\nAerial videos are emerging Spatial Multimedia which can be used for scene understanding and object tracking. The input video is captured by low flying aerial platforms and typically consists of strong parallax from non-ground-plane structures. The integration of digital video, global positioning systems (GPS) and automated image processing will improve the accuracy and cost-effectiveness of data collection and reduction. Several different aerial platforms are under investigation for the data collection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21378279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21378279", "title": "Agnostic atheism", "text": "Agnostic atheism\n\nAgnostic atheism is a philosophical position that encompasses both atheism and agnosticism. Agnostic atheists are atheistic because they do not hold a belief in the existence of any deity and agnostic because they claim that the existence of a deity is either unknowable in principle or currently unknown in fact.\n\nThe agnostic atheist may be contrasted with the agnostic theist, who believes that one or more deities exist but claims that the existence or nonexistence of such is unknown or cannot be known.\n\nOne of the earliest definitions of agnostic atheism is that of theologian and philosopher Robert Flint, in his Croall Lecture of 1887–1888 (published in 1903 under the title \"Agnosticism\").\n\nThe atheist may however be, and not unfrequently is, an agnostic. There is an agnostic atheism or atheistic agnosticism, and the combination of atheism with agnosticism which may be so named is not an uncommon one.\n\nIf a man has failed to find any good reason for believing that there is a God, it is perfectly natural and rational that he should not believe that there is a God; and if so, he is an atheist... if he goes farther, and, after an investigation into the nature and reach of human knowledge, ending in the conclusion that the existence of God is incapable of proof, cease to believe in it on the ground that he cannot know it to be true, he is an agnostic and also an atheist – an agnostic-atheist – an atheist because an agnostic... while, then, it is erroneous to identify agnosticism and atheism, it is equally erroneous so to separate them as if the one were exclusive of the other...\n\nIn 1885 Robert G. Ingersoll, popularly known as \"The Great Agnostic\", explained his comparative view of agnosticism and atheism as follows:\n\nEpistemological, or agnostic, atheism argues that people cannot know a God or determine the existence of a God. The foundation of epistemological atheism is agnosticism, which takes a variety of forms. In the philosophy of immanence, divinity is inseparable from the world itself, including a person's mind, and each person's consciousness is locked in the subject. According to this form of agnosticism, this limitation in perspective prevents any objective inference from belief in a god to assertions of its existence.\n\nThe rationalistic agnosticism of Kant and the Enlightenment only accepts knowledge deduced with human rationality; this form of atheism holds that gods are not discernible as a matter of principle, and therefore cannot be known to exist. Skepticism, based on the ideas of Hume, asserts that certainty about anything is impossible, so one can never know for sure whether or not a god exists. Hume, however, held that such unobservable metaphysical concepts should be rejected as \"sophistry and illusion\". The allocation of agnosticism to atheism is disputed; it can also be regarded as an independent, basic worldview.\n\nOther arguments for atheism that can be classified as epistemological or ontological, including logical positivism and ignosticism, assert the meaninglessness or unintelligibility of basic terms such as \"God\" and statements such as \"God is all-powerful.\" Theological noncognitivism holds that the statement \"God exists\" does not express a proposition, but is nonsensical or cognitively meaningless. It has been argued both ways as to whether such individuals can be classified into some form of atheism or agnosticism. Philosophers A. J. Ayer and Theodore M. Drange reject both categories, stating that both camps accept \"God exists\" as a proposition; they instead place noncognitivism in its own category.\n\n"}
{"id": "3247689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3247689", "title": "Andrew Wilson (historian)", "text": "Andrew Wilson (historian)\n\nAndrew Wilson (born 1961) is a British historian and political scientist specializing in Eastern Europe, particularly Ukraine. He is a Senior Policy Fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, and Professor in Ukrainian studies at the School of Slavonic and East European Studies at University College London. He wrote \"The Ukrainians\" and \"Virtual Politics: Faking Democracy in the Post-Soviet World\".\n\nWilson is a member of the Ukraine Today media organization's International Supervisory Council. \n\nHe was born in Cumbria, United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "2245039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2245039", "title": "Arts District, Dallas", "text": "Arts District, Dallas\n\nThe Arts District is a performing and visual arts district in Downtown Dallas, Texas.\n\nIt is located south of State Thomas; southeast of Uptown; north of the City Center District; west of Bryan Place; and east of the West End Historic District. It is bounded by St. Paul Street, Ross Avenue, Spur 366 (Woodall Rodgers Freeway), and the US 75/I-45 (unsigned I-345) elevated freeway (Central Expressway). (Previously the district extended east only to Routh Street, but a 9 March 2005 Dallas City Council approval extended it east to I-345.) The Arts District is the founder and member of the Global Cultural Districts Network.\n\nThe district is 68 acres (0.28 km²) large and is home to some of Dallas’ most significant cultural landmarks including facilities for visual, performing, and developing arts. \n\nThe Arts District is home to 13 facilities and organizations including The Annette Strauss Artist Square, the Belo Mansion/Dallas Bar Association, Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts, Cathedral Shrine of the Virgin of Guadalupe, Dallas Black Dance Theatre, Dallas Museum of Art, Dallas Symphony Orchestra, Dallas Theater Center, Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center, Nasher Sculpture Center, St. Paul United Methodist Church, Fellowship Church, Trammell Crow Center, and the Trammell & Margaret Crow Collection of Asian Art.\n\nIn addition, multiple other organizations perform in the District on an ongoing basis. This includes everything from concerts to outdoor festivals, to lectures, youth education programs, and more.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Arts District is served by the Dallas Independent School District.\n\nOne school, the Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts, is located in the Arts District.\n\nResidents of the Arts District north and east of Akard Street are zoned to Sam Houston Elementary School. Residents south and west of Akard are zoned to Hope Medrano Elementary School. All Arts District residents are zoned to Thomas J. Rusk Middle School and North Dallas High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "17064220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17064220", "title": "Bogumiła Berdychowska", "text": "Bogumiła Berdychowska\n\nBogumiła Berdychowska (born 1964) is a Polish writer and journalist, often writing about the Polish minorities in the former USSR and their history.\n\nShe was the director of the Bureau of National Minorities in the Polish Ministry of Art and Culture (1989-1994), and the vice-director of the Polish Radio (1994-2002).\nSince 2003, she has been the Director of the stipends department in Narodowe Centrum Kultury (National Center of Culture).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68115", "title": "Busan", "text": "Busan\n\nBusan (), formerly known as Pusan and now officially is South Korea's second most-populous city after Seoul, with a population of over 3.5 million inhabitants. It is the economic, cultural and educational center of southeastern Korea, with its port—Korea's busiest and the 9th-busiest in the world—only about from the Japanese islands of Kyushu and Honshu. The surrounding \"Southeast Economic Zone\" (including Ulsan and South Gyeongsang) is now South Korea's largest industrial area.\n\nBusan is divided into 15 major administrative districts and a single county, together housing a population of approximately 3.6 million. The full metropolitan area, including the adjacent cities of Gimhae and Yangsan, has a population of approximately 4.6 million. The most densely built-up areas of the city are situated in a number of narrow valleys between the Nakdong and the Suyeong Rivers, with mountains separating most of the districts. The Nakdong is Korea's longest river and Busan's Haeundae Beach is also the country's largest.\n\nBusan is a center for international conventions, hosting APEC in 2005. It is also a center for sports tournaments in Korea, having hosted the 2002 Asian Games and FIFA World Cup. It is home to the world's largest department store, the Shinsegae Centum City. Busan was added to the UNESCO Creative Cities Network as a \"City of Film\" in December 2014.\n\nThe name \"Busan\" is the Revised Romanization of the city's Korean name since the late 15th century. It officially replaced the earlier McCune-Reischauer romanization Pusan in 2000. The name (now written using the hangul syllabary) is Sino-Korean for \"Cauldron Mountain\", believed to be a former name of Mt Hwangryeong \"Hwangryeong-san\") west of the city center. The area's ancient state MtGeochil (, , \"Geochilsan-guk\", \"Rough-Mountain Land\") is similarly thought to refer to the same mountain, which towers over the town's harbor on the Suyeong. (The later Silla district of Geochilsan-gun was renamed Dongnae in 757.)\n\nPaleolithic Age: Paleolithic remains found in the Jung-dong district and Jwa-dong district in Haeundae shows a history of Busan beginning in the prehistoric age. In addition, neolithic relics were discovered in shell mounds in Dongsam-dong, and a shell mound dating between the BCE era to the 3rd Century A.D. was found in the Dongnae district. \nMtGeochil (\"Geochilsan-guk\") is recorded as a chiefdom of the Jinhan Confederacy in the 2nd–4th centuries. It was absorbed by Silla and organized as a district (\"gun\"). The grave goods excavated from mounded burials at Bokcheon-dong indicate that a complex chiefdom ruled by powerful individuals was present in the Busan area in the 4th century, just as Korea's Three Kingdoms were forming. The mounded burials of Bokcheon-dong were built along the top of a ridge that overlooks a wide area that makes up parts of modern-day Dongnae-gu and Yeonje-gu. Archaeologists excavated more than 250 iron weapons and ingots from Burial No. 38, a wooden chamber tomb at Bokcheon-dong.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 15th century, the Korean government designated Busan as a trading port with the Japanese and allowed their settlement. Other Japanese settlements in Ulsan and Jinhae diminished later, but the Busan settlement continued until Japan invaded Korea in 1592. After the war, diplomatic relations with the new shogunate in Japan were established in 1607, and Busan was permitted to be reconstructed. The Japanese settlement, though relocated into Choryang later, continued to exist until Korea was exposed to modern diplomacy in 1876. In 1876, Busan became the first international port in Korea under the terms of the Treaty of Ganghwa.\n\nDuring the Japanese rule, Busan developed into a hub trading port with Japan. Busan was the only city in Korea to adopt the steam tramway before electrification was introduced in 1924.\n\nDuring the Korean War, Busan was one of only two cities in South Korea not captured by the North Korean army within the first three months of the war, the other being Daegu. As a result, the cities became refugee camp sites for Koreans during the war.\n\nAs Busan was one of the few areas in Korea that remained under the control of South Korea throughout the Korean War, for some time it served as a temporary capital of the Republic of Korea. UN troops established a defensive perimeter around the city known as the Pusan Perimeter in the summer and autumn of 1950. Since then, the city has been a self-governing metropolis and has built a strong urban character.\n\nIn 1963, Busan separated from Gyeongsangnam-do to become a Directly Governed City (\"Jikhalsi\"). In 1983, the provincial capital of Gyeongsangnam-do was moved from Busan to Changwon.\n\nIn 1995, Busan became a Metropolitan City (\"Gwangyeoksi\").\n\nBusan is located on the Southeastern tip of the Korean Peninsula. It is located on the coast, which determined the development of the whole city itself. It is the nearest of South Korea's six largest cities to Japan. The distance as the crow flies from Busan to Tsushima Island, Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan, is about , to Fukuoka, Japan, about , and by contrast, to Seoul about . Busan borders low mountains on the north and west, and the seas on the south and east. The Nakdong River Delta is located on the west side of the city, and Geumjeongsan, the highest mountain in the city, on the north. The Nakdong River, South Korea's longest river, flows through the west and empties into the Korea Strait. The southeastern region, called Yeongnam in Korea, encompasses both Gyeongsang Provinces and 3 metropolitan cities of Busan, Daegu and Ulsan. Ulsan lies northeast of Busan. Combined population exceeds 13 million.\n\nLocated on the southeasternmost tip of the Korean Peninsula, Busan has a cooler version of a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification \"Cwa\"). Extremely high or low temperatures are rare. The highest temperature ever recorded is on 14 August 2016 while the lowest temperature ever recorded is on 13 January 1915. May to July, late Springs and early Summers, are usually cooler than inland regions because of the ocean effect. Late Summer, and early Autumn, August and September, are generally hot and humid and the city may experience typhoons at that time and be generally rainy. On September 15, 1959, Super Typhoon Sarah passed by the coast of the city and caused catastrophic damage. An unusually severe storm on September 12, 2003, Typhoon Maemi, also caused damage to ships and buildings and resulted in over 48 fatalities.\n\nOctober and November are generally the most comfortable, with clear skies and pleasant temperatures. Winters are cold and comparatively dry with high winds, but much milder than other parts of Korea except Jeju-do and several islands off the southern coast. Busan and the nearby area has the least amount of snow compared to other regions of Korea due to its location. Snow falls on an average of only about 5 days per year. Even a little accumulation of snow can effectively shut down this seaport city because of the hilly terrain and unfamiliarity of motorists with driving on snow.\nIn 1957 Busan adopted a division system with the creation of six \"gu\" (districts): Busanjin-gu, Dong-gu, Dongnae-gu, Jung-gu, Seo-gu, and Yeongdo-gu. Today, Busan is divided into fifteen \"gu\" and one \"gun\" (county). Korean Statistical Information Service (KOSIS), Statistics Korea (2017)\n\nBusan is the 2nd largest city in Korea, a maritime logistics hub in Northeast Asia with its world-class mega ports, and a gateway to the Eurasian continent. In 2017, the maritime city recorded a GRDP of USD 758.4 billion with a per capita GRDP of USD 22,000. The city’s economy is made up of the service industry (70.3%), manufacturing (19.8%), construction (5.9%), agriculture & fisheries (0.8%), and other sectors (3.2%).\n\nAs the 6th largest port in the world, the port of Busan processed 20.47 million TEU of container cargo volume in 2017. The port’s container terminal has 43 berths - 20 berths at the North Port, and 23 berths at the Busan New Port (including 2 multi-purpose berths). Moreover, the city is a center of marine science and R&D, and home to a number of relevant institutions, such as the Korea Maritime Institute (KMI), the Korea Institute of Ocean Science & Technology (KIOST), the National Fishery Products Quality Management Service, the Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Agency (KHOA), and the Korea National Maritime Museum, located in Dongsam Innovation Complex in Yeongdo-gu district. Moreover, the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA) World Congress is scheduled to be hosted in Busan in 2020. (Busan New Port)\n\nIn addition, Busan is the city of festivals and film. A variety of festivals are held in the city throughout the year. Following the Joseon Tongsinsa Festival (Registration of Documents on Joseon Tongsinsa on the UNESCO Memory of the World in 2017) and Busan Port Festival in May, the Busan Sea Festival at Haeundae Beach, the largest beach in Korea, and the Busan International Rock Festival take place in August. In particular, October is the perfect month to enjoy a variety of festivals, such as the Busan International Film Festival, the largest film festival in Asia, the Busan Fireworks Festival, and the One Asia Festival, a global K-pop music festival. In addition, G-Star, the largest gaming exhibition in Korea, and e-Sports World Championship are hosted in November, followed by the Busan Christmas Tree Festival in December. (Busan Fireworks Festival)\n\nThe city is also known for its global MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions) industry. The city is ranked 5th in Asia and 10th in the world in terms of the number international conferences hosted in the city. The city’s convention and exhibition zone boasts excellent conditions and infrastructure to host large-scale international events, which includes BEXCO in Centum City, Nurimaru APEC House, and luxurious hotels nearby beautiful natural environments. Major international conferences in Busan include the 2005 APEC Economic Leaders Meeting, ASEAN-Republic of Korea Commemorative Summit 2014, and 2018 African Development Bank Group Annual Meetings. (BEXCO)\n\nMoreover, Busan is also a center of finance. Korea Exchange (KRX), Korea's sole securities exchange operator, is headquartered in Busan. The city is home to a number of financial institutions, such as the Korea Technology Finance Corporation, Korea Asset Management Corporation, Korea Housing-Finance Corporation, Korea Housing & Urban Guarantee Corporation, Korea Securities Depository, Korea Maritime Guarantee Insurance, Maritime Finance Center, The Korea Shipping and Maritime Transportation Co., Ltd, Korea Asset Management Corporation, and BNK Financial Group. \nCommercial areas are dispersed throughout the city near busy intersections and adjacent to university campuses, but the two largest central business districts in Busan are Seomyeon and Gwangbok-dong/Nampo-dong. There are also four substantial shopping areas of note: Seomyeon, Gwangbok-dong, Busan Daehak-ga in Jangjeon-dong, and Centum City in Haeundae-gu.\n\nSeomyeon is the crossroads of Busan. The local subway station serves two lines and is one of the busiest in the city. Seomyeon subway station is also home to a large number of underground shops, selling a variety of products, predominately clothing and footwear. These are small boutique shops, selling locally produced products. The local head offices of Korean and international banks are located in Seomyeon. It is recognized as the ascendant shopping and entertainment district. It is also home to \"Seomyeon Medical Street\", the district encompassing the 1 km-radius range around Lotte Department Store in Seomyeon and the Buam subway station. The Street is home to a total of 160 cosmetic and other medical clinics, including those specializing in cosmetic surgery, dermatology, ophthalmology and dentistry. Directly adjacent to Seomyeon is Bujeon Market, the largest traditional market in the city.\n\nThe Gwangbok-dong, Nampo-dong, and Jungang-dong areas form the old central business district. Some of the restaurants in this district use family recipes passed down the generations. Jagalchi Market, a large seafood market, is located in this area. The Gukje Market is also nearby. Jungang-dong is the home of many international law offices, the old Immigration Office, and the international ferry terminal serving Japanese routes. Lotte World II is currently under construction along the water between Jungang-dong 7-Ga and 8-Ga.\n\nCentum City, an industrial complex, is a popular new shopping area with luxury department stores.\n\nBusan has many major department stores, including Lotte Department Store (located in Seomyeon, Centum City, Gwangbok-dong and Dongnae), Lotte Premium Outlet (in Gimhae and Gijang), Shinsegae Premium Outlet (in Gijang), as well as large supermarket chains across the city, such as Home Plus, E-mart, and Costco.\n\nBusan’s major 5-star hotels include; The Westin Chosun Busan, Paradise Busan, and Park Hyatt Busan. In 2017, the 7-star Hilton Hotel and Ananti Cove resort opened in the Osiria Tourism Complex, Gijang-gun district, drawing a number of guests from home and abroad.\n\n\n\nPrimary and secondary schools:\n\nColleges and universities:\n\nBusan not only features a variety of antique and souvenir shops, but also unique restaurants, attractions and accommodations.\n\nNampo-dong is a central shopping and café district. The area around Pukyong National University and Kyungsung University also has many cafés, bars, and restaurants attracting college students and youth.\n\nBusan is called the summer capital of Korea since it attracts tourists from all over the country to its six beaches. Luxury hotels and a carnival boardwalk line the beach at Haeundae. Gwangalli Beach has cafés, bars, and restaurants along the beach, and the Grand Gwangan Bridge. Other beaches include Dadaepo Beach on the west edge of the city and Songdo Beach, which is south-central.\n\nHaeundae Beach is one of the most famous beaches in Korea. There is also a film, \"Tidal Wave\" (2009) based on the location about a tsunami hitting Busan.\n\nGeumjeongsan to the west is a weekend hiking spot for Busan residents. To the north, the neighborhoods around Pusan National University (also known as PNU, which is one of the most highly recognized national institutes of higher education in Korea) have student theaters, cafés, bars and restaurants, as well as open-air cultural street performances on weekend nights. Nearby is Beomeosa, the city's main Korean Buddhist temple.\n\nYongdusan Park occupies 69,000 square meters/ and is home to the Busan Tower, Yongdusan Art Gallery, and the Busan Aquarium, the largest aquarium in South Korea. The park supports approximately seventy different species of trees and is a tourist destination, with various cultural events throughout the year.\n\nDongnae-gu is a wealthy and traditional residential area. Dongnae Oncheon is a natural spa area with many baths, tourist hotels, restaurants, clubs and shopping areas. Many restaurants in the area use family recipes. Chungnyeolsa is a Confucian shrine for soldiers who died during the 16th century battle against the Japanese at Dongnae Fortress.\n\nTaejongdae is a natural park with cliffs facing the open sea on the island of Yeongdo.\n\nThe area known as the \"Foreigners' Shopping Street\", but commonly referred to as \"Texas Street\" near part of the Port of Busan, and adjacent to the front entrance to the Busan Train Station (부산역) has many businesses that cater to the local Russian population, as well as the crews of foreign ships. The area was originally the location of the local Chinatown and still contains a Chinese school.\n\nHaedong Yonggung temple is one of three sacred places related to the Goddess Buddha. It is located right next to the sea. It lies on a mountain in the front and the sea at the back.\n\nGamcheon Cultural Village, was created in the 1950s as a residential community along a mountain slope. The houses in the village are built in staircase fashion. The village, often dubbed as the ‘Machu Picchu of Korea’, attracts many tourists. In addition, the village received special mention during the 3rd edition of the international award ceremony, “UCLG-MEXICO CITY-Culture 21Busan Citizens Park (formerly Camp Hialeah) is a former Imperial Japanese Army base and United States Army camp located in the Busanjin District.\n\nDongbaek island Dongbaek Island is located at the southern end of Haeundae Beach. The island creates a picturesque scene in harmony with a thick forest of camellias and pine trees. Tourist attractions on Dongbaek Island include a walking path and the Nurimaru APEC House, built for the 2005 APEC summit.\nHuinnyeoul Culture Village Huinnyeoul Culture Village was created when Korean War refugees flocked to this area. It provides an unhindered view of both the Busanhang and Namhang Ports. A major backdrop of the acclaimed Korean movie, ‘The Attorney’, the neighborhood was also featured in yet another Korean hit, ‘Nameless Gangster: Rules of Time’. The small houses that stand shoulder to shoulder form the signature look of Busan, which is often remembered as a city of the sea and hilly neighborhoods. The village continues to attract an increasing number of visitors with its new cafes, workshops, and guesthouses.Millak Waterfront Park : Millak Waterfront Park is the first waterfront park in Korea, which combines the oceanfront with public leisure facilities. The park is located between Haeundae Beach and Gwangalli Beach. The waterfront park, with an area of 33,507m² , can accommodate as many as 40,000 visitors. The floor of the park is decorated with colorful blocks, and the park provides visitors a perfect chance to relax, and features flower gardens, gazebos, and benches. If you sit on the 3,040–wide stand, you can dip your feet in the water during high tide.\n\nDaejeo Ecological Park: With a length of and a size of , designated as Natural Monument No. 179, Daejeo Ecological Park is a habitat for migratory birds at the Nakdong River Estuary. The estuary was chosen as a trial project for the Four Major Rivers Restoration Project. The sports facilities were partially built on the upper and lower parts of the park only, while the rest of the park underwent a restoration of its wetlands and natural grassland. In the garden inside the park, you can find a large-scale habitat for prickly water lilies, which are part of the Endangered Species Level II classification. Many interesting festivals, such as the Nakdong Riverside Cherry Blossom Festival, the Busan Nakdong River Canola Flower Festival, and the Daejeo Tomato Festival are held around this park every year.Ilgwang Beach : Ilgwang Beach is long white-sand beach, extending for about 1.8 kilometers, and is particularly popular among families with young children as a vacation spot because the waters are quite shallow. Every summer, the Gaetmaeul Outdoor Drama Festival is held on this beach. The festival features diverse performances of traditional Korean music, outdoor dramas, mime shows, and other performance art forms.\n\nKiswire Museum(F-1963) : Kiswire Museum(F-1963) offers its visitors a chance to better understand wire, a key material for industrial development, and central to Kiswire’s corporate philosophy. The museum won The 2014 Busan Architecture Award for its aesthetic design. In addition, the roof of the museum is supported by only 38 cables without any pillars or beams, which makes the museum quite unique. In addition, the museum features special art pieces, including artwork made with wires.\n\nJeonpo Café Street : Seomyeon, Busan is busiest area with a variety of entertainment, restaurants and shops. Across Seomyeon 1 Beonga (Seomyeon 1st Street), the busiest street in the area, there is a quiet and tranquil street with about 30 unique cafés. Several years ago, the Bujeon-dong and Jeonpo-dong areas were full of hardware stores and machine part suppliers. However, since 2010 the area has been transformed into a trendy street full of cozy and hip cafés. Most of the coffee shops are small cafés ran by individual owners. Such cafés offer the chance to enjoy a variety of coffee beans and flavors.\n\n\nBusan hosts the Busan International Film Festival (BIFF)—one of the most popular international film festivals in Asia—at the Busan Cinema Center every fall. It is also the home of the Busan Biennale, an international contemporary art biennale which takes place every two years.\n\nThe city also hosts the One Asia Festival, the largest K-pop festival in Korea beginning in 2016, positioning itself as the center of K-pop culture.\n\nIn 2012, German artist Hendrik Beikirch painted Asia’s tallest mural entitled“Fisherman Portrait” on a building near Millak Raw Fish Town.\n\nBusan is home to 80 performance facilities consisting of 30 public ones, including the Busan Cultural Center, Busan Citizens’Hall, Busan Cinema Center, and Busan National Gugak Center. There are 40 private facilities, such as KBS Art Hall Busan, Sohyang Art Center, MBC Samjoo Art Hall, Kyungsung University Concert Hall, and Shinsegae Department Store Culture Hall.\n\nMuseums in Busan include:\n\nBusan was once a center of military affairs in the southern region of the peninsula and therefore was an important site for diplomatic relationships with Japan; high-ranking officers and officials from the court frequently visited the city. Special foods were prepared for the officers such as \"Dongnae pajeon\" (동래파전), a variant of \"pajeon\" (Korean savory pancakes), made with whole scallions, sliced chili peppers, and various kinds of seafood in a thick batter of wheat flour, glutinous rice flour, eggs, salt and water.\n\nDuring the Korean War, Busan was the biggest refugee destination on the peninsula; people from all regions of Korea went there. Some of these refugees stayed and adapted and adjusted the recipes of their local specialties. One of these foods is \"milmyeon\" () (lit. 'wheat noodle') a version of \"naengmyeon\", cold buckwheat noodle soup, but using wheat flour instead. (Naemyeon is originally a specialty food of Hamhung and Pyongyang, now part of North Korea.) \"Dwaeji gukbap\" () (lit. 'pork/pig soup rice') is also a result of Korean War. It is a hearty pork soup and is becoming more popular nationwide. Pork trotters served with vegetables such as cucumbers, onions, and mustard sauce is popular and is called Nangchae-Jokbal.\n\nWe can find a trace of authentic Busan in the popular fishcakes at the Bupyeong Market. Fishcakes originally came from the Japanese food \"Kamaboko\". It is made of crushed and fried fish fillets. Busan's fishcakes have gained their reputation from their special taste. More and more people are taking food trips to Busan to taste the special fishcakes. Around 1 million travelers honor this food's history by visiting one of the famous local fishcake stores.\n\nThe history of Choryang Galbi (pork ribs) goes back to the Korean War. Back then, ordinary people gathered in the town of Choryang to have relatively cheap, but nutrient-packed pork ribs to decompress from a long day of work. Still today, around 20 galbi restaurants uphold its history and Choryang has become famous for its galbi street.\n\nIf you visit Busan, you must try the raw sliced mackerel. Around 80% of all mackerel in Korea are caught in Busan. Mackerel can easily spoil, so it is best to eat raw right after it is caught. Visitors should try the food and enjoy its fresh and delicious taste.\n\nBusan has the largest hot spring resorts and facilities in Korea. Busan’s Oncheon is the oldest hot spring spa in Korea. It even has its own unique history, where long ago an old man with aching legs was said to have seen an injured crane come to the hot spring and bath in it. After bathing in its waters, the crane became completely cured and happily flew away. Upon seeing this, the old man also bathed his aching legs in the water and was cured. Among the hot spas, ‘Dongnae Oncheon’ and ‘Haeundae Oncheon’ are the most famous ones. Today, the spas have an outdoor bath and sauna.\n\n\nAccording to the census of 2007, of the people of Busan 41.9% follow Buddhism and 16.6% follow Christianity (12.1% Protestantism and 4.5% Catholicism), 39.9% of the population is mostly not religious or follow other indigenous religions.\nThe city planned to bid for the 2020 Summer Olympics, but withdrew after the 2018 Winter Olympics were awarded to Pyeongchang, also located in South Korea. The 2020 Summer Olympics were eventually awarded to Tokyo. It is currently considering bidding to host the 2032 Summer Olympics.\n\nSports teams and facilities\n\nSince 1982, the city has been home to the Lotte Giants, who play in the Korea Professional Baseball league. In Korea, Busan is known as the capital of baseball and has a reputation for very enthusiastic baseball fans. For the first few years, the Lotte Giants utilized Gudeok Baseball Stadium as their home. In the mid-1980s, they moved to Sajik Baseball Stadium, which was built as part of a sports complex for the 1986 Asian Games.\n\nThe city is home to a K League football club, the Busan IPark. The club was formerly known as the Buan Daewoo Royals and was a successful team during the 1990s. Busan is also home to a National League football club, the Busan Transportation Corporation.\n\nBusan also has a Korean Basketball League team, the Busan KT Sonicboom that plays in Sajik Arena.\n\nThoroughbred horse racing is held at \"Busan-Gyeongnam Horse Racing Park\" every weekend.\n\nBicycle Racing is held at \"Busan Cydrome,\" the velodrome in Geumjeong Sports Park, every weekend.\n\nThe 2002 FIFA World Cup was the world’s 17th FIFA World Cup, held from the 31st of May to the 30th of June 2002 at locations in South Korea and Japan. Busan hosted matches between France and Uruguay, and ROK against Poland at the Busan Asiad Stadium.\n\nThe 2002 Asian Games were held in Busan, ROK, from September 29 to October 14, 2002. 9,900 athletes from 44 countries competed in 38 sports. Many public sports complexes, university gymnasiums, including Busan Asiad Stadium were used for the games’ venues. The mascot was a seagull, the city bird of Busan named, “Duria”. East Timor took part in the games for the first time. As well, North Korea also participated for the first time in an international event held in South Korea.\n\nThe 2020 World Team Table Tennis Championships, the ITTF announced on the 1st of May in Halmstad, Sweden that Busan won the bid to host the 2020 World Team Table Tennis Championships. The Championships will be held in March 2020 at BEXCO, with 2,000 athletes from 130 countries participating.\n\nBusan celebrates festivals all year round.\n\nBusan has many hospitals and clinics.\nMany cosmetic surgery, dermatological, ophthalmic, dental clinics are concentrated in \"Seomyeon medical street\".\n\nHospitals in Busan include Pusan National University Hospital with 1,300 beds in Ami-dong, Kosin University Gospel Hospital with 957 beds in Amnam-dong, Dongnam Institute of Radiological & Medical Sciences specializing in cancer treatment with 298 beds, Dong-A University Hospital with 999 beds in Dongdaesin-dong, Dong-eui Medical Center with 468 beds offering cooperative western and oriental medicine treatment in Yangjeong-dong, Inje University Busan Paik Hospital with 837 beds in Gaegeum-dong, Inje University Haeundae Paik Hospital with 896 beds in Jwa-dong, Busan Medical Center with 555 beds in Sajik-dong and Busan Veterans Hospital in Jurye-dong, Sasang-gu. In particular, Seomyeon Medical Street, which first started construction in the Bujeon-dong area beginning in 1990, has formed a cluster of more than 230 medical institutions, full of expertise, that is difficult to find in other parts of the world. The “Seomyeon Medical Street Festival” has taken place annually since 2012.\n\nMajor express bus lines link Busan with other cities in Korea at two primary bus terminals, Nopodong Bus Terminal (at the northern terminus of Subway Line 1) and Seobu Bus Terminal at Sasang Station on Subway Line 2.\n\n134 routes of urban buses service every part of Busan Metropolitan City. (Busan Urban Bus)\n\nCity buses operate a total of 160 routes. There are express buses connecting major areas quickly through tunnels and overpasses and general city buses which make stops at each bus stop. There are also airport buses connecting the Gimhae International Airport and the downtown area. Some of the city buses of Busan’s adjacent cities including Yangsan, Changwon, Gimhae and Ulsan also offer service to Busan.\n\nGimhae Airport Limousine Bus is one of the fastest buses connecting Gimhae International Airport and the downtown area. As of 2012, three routes are operated by Taeyoung Airport Limousine Corp.\n\n- Nampo-dong: Gimhae International Airport ↔ Seomyeon, Busanjin Station, Busan Station, Nampo-dong ↔ Chungmu-dong (Seo-gu Office)\n\n- Haeundae No.1: Gimhae International Airport ↔ Namcheon-dong, BEXCO, Dongbaekseom (Westin Chosun Busan), Haeundae ↔ New City (Jangsan Station)\n\n- Haeundae No.2: Gimhae International Airport ↔ Namcheon-dong, Gwangan Bridge, Haeundae ↔ New Town (Jangsan Station) Express Bus\n\nIntercity buses to east Gyeongnam, Gyeongbuk, Gangwon and Gyeonggi Provinces are available at the Busan Central Bus Terminal. Buses offering service to West Gyeongnam and Jeolla Province depart from the Busan West Bus Terminal located in Sasang. Buses to the east Gyeongnam area, including Ulsan, Gimhae and Changwon, the Seoul Metropolitan Area, including Osan, Suwon, Ansan, Bucheon and Dong Seoul and the southern Gangwon area, including Donghae and Gangneung are available at the Haeundae Intercity Bus Terminal. The Dongnae Intercity Bus Terminal has buses to the central and southern Gyeongnam area, including Changwon, Gimhae, Gosung, Tongyoung, and Geoje, as well as to Suncheon, Yeosu and Gwangyang.\n\nFerries leaving from the \"International Ferry Terminal\" at Busan Port Pier 3,4 connect Busan to the Japanese ports of Izuhara and Hitakatsu on Tsushima Island, as well as the cities of Shimonoseki, Fukuoka, and Osaka on Japan's mainland.\n\nThis is administered by the Busan Port Authority.\n\nBusan lies on a number of rail lines, of which the most important is the Gyeongbu Line which connects it to other major cities such as Seoul, Daejeon, and Daegu. All classes of trains run along the Gyeongbu Line, including the superhigh speed KTX trains which provide frequent services to Seoul in approximately 150 minutes. The Gyeongbu Line terminates at Busan Station. Other lines include the Donghae Nambu Line which connects Ulsan, Pohang and Gyeongju.\n\nSRT first launched in 2016 and runs along the Gyeongbu and Honam high-speed railways. SRT offers a new gateway connecting the Gangnam area of Seoul with major cities. It is directly connected to Subway Line 3 and the Bundang Line, enhancing accessibility to Subway Line 2, 5 and 8, as well as the Shinbundang Line, and it is also located near the Dongbu Expressway that connects to other major highways.\n\nThere are six subway lines as of January 2017. The transit stations are as follows: Seomyeon Station (Line 1, 2) / Yeonsan Station (Line 1, 3) / Suyeong Station (Lines 2, 3) / Deokcheon Station (Lines 2, 3) / Minam Station (Lines 3, 4) / Dongnae Station (Lines 1, 4) / Sasang Station (Line 2, Busan - Gimhae Light Rail Transit) / Daejeo Station (Line 3, Busan - Gimhae Light Rail Transit) / Busan National University of Education Station (Line 1, Donghae Line) / Bexco Station (Line 2, Donghae Line) / Geoje Station (Line 3, Donghae Line)\n\nBusan is served by Gimhae International Airport in Gangseo-gu.\nGimhae International Airport is connected by Busan-Gimhae Light Rail Transit\n\nThe Gimhae International Airport Domestic Terminal in Gangseo-gu provides flights to Gimpo, Jeju and Yangyang.\n\nThe Gimhae International Airport in Gangseo-gu operates routes to Japan (Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka, Sapporo and Kitakyushu), China (Beijing, Shanghai, Shenyang, Qingdao, Weihai and Yantai), Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan (Taipei), Mongolia (Ulaanbaatar), Germany (Munich), Vietnam (Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh and Da Nang), Thailand (Bangkok), the Philippines (Manila, Cebu and Calibo), Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur, Kota Kinabalu), Cambodia (Siem Reap), Laos (Vientiane) and Guam. Flights to Narita International Airport in Tokyo make easy transfer to North America possible.\n\nBusan shares the title of sister city with several coastal cities or provinces around the world.\n\nAs of May 2018, Busan has 10 friendship cities in six countries.\n\n\nThe Port of Busan also has 6 sister ports (listed in order of dates).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39260154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39260154", "title": "Calculus of concepts", "text": "Calculus of concepts\n\nThe calculus of concepts is an abstract language and theory, which was developed to simplify the reasons behind effective messaging when delivered to a specific target or set of targets. The theory aims to maximize the likelihood of desired outcomes, by using messaging elements and techniques while analyzing the delivery mechanisms in certain scenarios. The reduction of uncertainty, but not its elimination, is often cost effective and practical.\n\nEmpowered by the internet of things (IoT) the framework looks at numerous device such as smart phones, tablets, laptops, hand held gaming devices, GPS devices, automobile Event Data Recorders and other electronic devices as remote sensors capable of providing data channels.\n\nBy using elements, the theory discovers underlying key concepts and their relations to better understand how messages can by used to elicit desired behaviors through mental model heuristics and biases. The framework does not serve up spam to potential consumers; it is a new paradigm for effective messaging. The nature of the data produced and consumed by devices in the IoT naturally lends itself to location-based awareness.\n\nJust-in-time and real-time broadcasting of key messages gives the framework an extra dimension, putting it at the forefront of behavioral methodologies. Broadcasting can take place across a number of platforms, text, photographic, video, audio or even direct human contact.\n\nThe use of anchoring-and-adjustment, framing and representativeness heuristics provides fertile grounds for “re-wiring” the decision making processes to include either positive or mitigating mental models of a given concept or set of related concepts. The “re-wiring” will often produce results that have a significant impact on later decisions and behaviors on the target audience. The framework analyses key factors that influence the effectiveness of messaging mechanisms and how differing approaches can lead to entirely different results.\n\nThe calculus of concepts framework has been practically implemented utilizing a combination of Naive Bayes classification and Support Vector Machines (SVM) algorithms to actively identify the key components of a messaging campaign and its effectiveness. The effectiveness of a communications campaign is often measured by numerous results including reach, frequency and duration.\n\nThe training data set for the model implementation utilized the potential messages and delivery mechanisms with Actors, Actions, Objects, Contexts and Indicia as a few examples.\n\nEach concept within the framework is treated by the practical implementation as either an independent or dependent variable (as applicable) and therefore may have a meaningful effect on the outcome of any communication. As with any machine-learning tool the Calculus of Concepts model implementation inputs can be either nominal or ordinal and depending on the particular case.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2012 one of the largest oil companies in China attempted to buy the twelfth biggest oil company in Canada. Initial proposals and takeover plans were rejected due to a number of issues surrounding political tensions.\n\nStakeholders identified Environment, Context, Domain, Event, Condition, State, Decision, Relation, Actor, Action and Object concepts that needed to be in place to have the key decision makers utilizing the mental models needed to secure the takeover.\n\nOver the next 7 years messaging activities were fielded by the Chinese company and its authorized agents, specifically designed to elicit Ideations and Decisions that would result in the takeover going through. In 2012, the takeover was completed after a coordinated and concerted field messaging activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "32924850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32924850", "title": "Carnation (painting)", "text": "Carnation (painting)\n\nCarnation (Latin, caro, carnis, “flesh”), in painting, refers to the representation of color of flesh. It is also used in describing a painting or drawing to signify the undraped parts of a figure.\n\nThe use of carnation requires very attentive study and great skill in the painter. It varies with the sex of the individual, with the classes and countries to which the subjects belong, with the passions, the state of the health, etc. The cheeks are, in a healthy subject, of a lively red; the breast, neck and upper part of the arms of a soft white; the belly yellowish. At the extremities the color becomes colder, and at the points assumes a violet tint, on account of the transparency of the skin. All these shades require to be softly blended. Two faults in carnation are chiefly to be avoided: hardness, the fault of the masters of the 15th century, and too great weakness. Guido Reni not infrequently painted his flesh so that it appeared almost bloodless. The French school has gone farthest in this respect. The flesh of the followers of this school often looks like porcelain or wax. Titian and Rubens are unrivaled in their rendering of carnation.\n"}
{"id": "48090526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48090526", "title": "Conservation and restoration of outdoor murals", "text": "Conservation and restoration of outdoor murals\n\nThe conservation and restoration of outdoor murals is the process of caring for and maintaining murals, and includes documentation, examination, research, and treatment to insure their long-term viability, when desired.\n\nMurals are most commonly defined as wall paintings, works of art integrated into a specific architectural space. The word \"mural\" is derived from the Latin word \"murus\", meaning wall. Walls have long provided a direct support for aesthetic, political, and social ideas expressed with paint. Cave paintings could be considered the earliest murals, followed over time by wall paintings in tombs, temples, churches, civic buildings, and a variety of outdoor spaces. Modern murals grow out of this long tradition. From the beginning of the 20th century, murals have had a significant presence in the architecture of the Americas. Through the years murals have changed just as everyday life has changed. Murals were painted on church walls and carved into stone or wood on the outside, to educate those who cannot read. The tradition has carried on to today’s churches. Visual images and language are one of the most powerful forms of communication, both then and more so now. Murals today share much of the history from past murals, though today’s murals can depict anything. The major job of murals today is to band communities together. In an age where everything is materialistic, and most of us don’t know our neighbors let alone anyone else in our community, finding a way to bring people together can be difficult. Murals have a very positive effect on communities, bring people together and bring pride to the community, and that pride tends to stay and spread to other parts of the community.\n\nOutdoor contemporary murals are generally seen as temporary installation, varying from 10 to 20 years due to weathering and vandalism. Outdoor murals are susceptible to, depending on their physical location, extreme weather conditions. A few of the biggest problems facing murals are graffiti, physical destruction, and desaturation as the paint layers weather and are exposed to UV. UV radiation causes cracking, color change and fading. Oxidation chain reactions are the culprit on a chemical level. Environmental conditions are a major factor in mural deterioration. Freeze-thaw cycles and capillary rise affect the architectural support of the mural and lead to salt efflorescence, cracking, and lifting of the paint layers if incompatible paints or coatings are used and the mural extends to ground level. Murals that face South in direct UV rays are susceptible to fade and also binder deterioration.\n\nMurals are traditionally commissioned on private buildings and structures, leaving ownership of the mural in the hands of the owner of the building. Gaining permission to conduct conservation is a key first step in the process. Annual inspections of mural will contribute to it lifetime. Inspections are encouraged to take place during the spring season. This will allow for any damage done during the winter months to not be overseen, and will also allow for conservation to being and take place during the summer.\n\nPreventive conservation can take place before a mural begins. Such as preparing the wall properly and using high-quality, lightfast, and compatible materials—is fundamental. Other preventive actions (e.g., regular maintenance, graffiti removal, and community awareness) can help preserve murals. Much of the damage seen on murals is due to vandalism and a lack of maintenance. Sadly, regular maintenance is not always a priority. Building maintenance is also important to the life of the mural. Communities are aware of well-respected buildings, community engagement is important to continue to spread the word about preserving the sight of the mural. Continue to maintain the grounds that the building reside on. A well maintained building will deter vandalism and also littering around the property. These are all preventive steps that can me undertaken by the community at large, contributing to the murals dialog of bringing a community together.\n\nGraffiti plagues the presence of many murals, especially those found within city limits. Graffiti is often seen as a form of territory, and once it premiers on a location it invites others to participate in the act of vandalism. Involving the youth of the community with mural project directly is seen as a way to prevent future graffiti, giving them a profound connection and education with and about the project.\n\nIf graffiti is present on a mural, it must be removed in a safe and effective manner that does not directly harm the image beneath it. For this reason, removal should be undertaken by a conservator or an artist/technician familiar with the piece after consultation with or under the supervision of a conservator. Removal without adequate testing, or by an individual without adequate experience or supervision, can irreparably harm the mural.\n\nAs murals deteriorate, owners and agencies have several treatment options. They may ask the artist to repaint or restore the work, or they may call a conservator who could either treat the mural according to strict conservation guidelines or work with the artist to conserve and possibly restore the work. With contemporary murals, there are many instances of restoration or even re-creation. Before this takes place it is advised to look back for an existing plan set out before the mural project began planning the steps of its conservation, if and when needed. This document should articulate who will be the lead of the project; conservator, artist, committee etc. and will also state who will approve the conservation work need to be performed. \n\nA conservator should ideally perform the analysis of the state of the mural and outline procedures and materials need to be performed. This should all then be taken into consideration with the expectations of the community and also the owner of the mural (owner of the building).\n\nThe Heritage Preservation has provided links for Mural Programs and websites worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "195516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195516", "title": "Conversation piece", "text": "Conversation piece\n\nA conversation piece is an informal group portrait, especially those painted in Britain in the 18th century, beginning in the 1720s. They are distinguished by their portrayal of the group apparently engaged in genteel conversation or some activity, very often outdoors. Typically the group will be members of a family, but friends may be included, and some groups are of friends, members of a society or hunt, or some other grouping. Often the paintings are relatively small, about the same size as a half-length portrait but in horizontal or \"landscape\" format; others are much larger.\n\nThe genre was developed from 17th century portraiture in the Low Countries. The compositions of merrymaking companies (\"vrolijk gezelschap\") and garden parties (\"buitenpartij\") painted by artists such as Dirck Hals, David Vinckbooms, Adriaen van de Venne and Willem Buytewech were an important influence on the genre. In addition, representations of elegant companies and balls by Hieronymus Janssens and the works of Peter Paul Rubens, in particular his \"Garden of Love\" (Prado Museum), gave an impetus and direction to the development of the genre. In this last work, Rubens showed how a garden could be used as a setting for amorous dalliance and courtship.\n\nIn the Low Countries many group portraits were painted, both of family groups and groups such as Governors or Regents of institutions, or militia officers. Frans Hals, Rembrandt and other artists had adopted a variety of poses to liven up the group portrait, for example the famous \"Night Watch\". The name derives from the Italian term, also used in English, \"sacra conversazione\" for a similarly informal painting of the Virgin and Child with saints, a genre developed in the Renaissance.\n\nThere are many varieties of conversation piece. People may be portrayed sharing common activities such as hunts, meals, or musical parties. Dogs and/or horses are also frequently featured. Arthur Devis was a regional painter famous for his small conversation pieces, popular with the gentry of Cheshire. William Hogarth also worked in the genre, and parodied it in his print \"A Midnight Modern Conversation\", which depicted a group of men whose conversation has degenerated into drunken incoherence. Johann Zoffany specialized in complicated conversation pieces, and most portraits by George Stubbs take this form, with horses and carriages in the composition. Joshua Reynolds would on request produce conversation pieces in the Grand Manner, and at his usual near-life scale.\n\nThe phrase \"conversation piece\" later acquired a different meaning. It came to refer to objects that were perceived to be interesting enough to spark conversation about them. They provide a stimulus for prop-based conversation openers. The original conversation pieces sometimes depicted a group united in conversation about an object, which would typically be an item linked to science or scholarship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28814343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28814343", "title": "Crosby Garrett Helmet", "text": "Crosby Garrett Helmet\n\nThe Crosby Garrett Helmet is a copper alloy Roman cavalry helmet dating from the late 2nd or early 3rd century AD. It was found by an unnamed metal detectorist near Crosby Garrett in Cumbria, England, in May 2010. Later investigations found that a Romano-British farming settlement had occupied the site where the helmet was discovered, which was located a few miles away from a Roman road and a Roman army fort. It is possible that the owner of the helmet was a local inhabitant who had served with the Roman cavalry.\n\nThe helmet appears to have been deliberately folded up and deposited in an artificial stone structure. It is thought to have been used for ceremonial occasions rather than for combat, and may already have been an antique by the time it was buried. It is of the same type as the Newstead Helmet (found in 1905) and its design also has similarities with the Ribchester Helmet (found in 1796) and the Hallaton Helmet (found in 2000), though its facial features are more akin to those of helmets found in southern Europe. Its design may allude to the Trojans, whose exploits the Romans re-enacted in cavalry tournaments.\n\nDr Ralph Jackson, Senior Curator of Romano-British Collections at the British Museum, has described the helmet as \"... an immensely interesting and outstandingly important find ... Its face mask is both extremely finely wrought and chillingly striking, but it is as an ensemble that the helmet is so exceptional and, in its specifics, unparalleled. It is a find of the greatest national (and, indeed, international) significance.\"\n\nOn 7 October 2010, the helmet was sold at Christie's for £2.3 million (US$3.6 million) to an undisclosed private buyer. Tullie House Museum and Art Gallery in Carlisle sought to purchase the helmet with the support of the British Museum, but was outbid. The helmet has so far been publicly displayed four times, once in a 2012 exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts, at Tullie House in 2013–14, followed by display at the British Museum in 2014. The helmet returned to Tullie House to be displayed in the Hadrian's Cavalry exhibition in the summer of 2017.\n\nThe Crosby Garrett helmet is an almost complete example of a two-piece Roman cavalry helmet. The visor portrays the face of a youthful, clean-shaven male with curly hair. The headpiece is in the shape of a Phrygian cap, on the crest of which is a winged griffin that stands with one raised foot resting on an amphora. The visor was originally attached to the headpiece by means of a hinge; the iron hinge pin has not survived, but its existence has been inferred from the presence of powdery deposits of iron oxide residue. The helmet would have been held in place using a leather strap attached from the wearer's neck to a decorated rivet on either side of the helmet, below the ear. Wear marks caused by opening and closing the visor are still visible, and at some point the helmet was repaired using a bronze sheet which was riveted across two splits. Only two other Roman helmets complete with visors have been found in Britain – the Newstead Helmet and Ribchester Helmet.\n\nThe helmet and visor were cast from an alloy consisting of an average of 82% copper, 10% zinc and 8% tin. This alloy was probably derived from melted-down scrap brass with a low zinc content, with which some tin had been added to improve the quality of the casting. Some of the fragments show traces of a white metal coating, indicating that the visor would originally have been tinned to give the appearance of silver. The griffin was cast separately from a different alloy consisting of 68% copper, 4% zinc, 18% tin and 10% lead. The visor would originally have been a silver hue and the helmet would have had a coppery yellow appearance. The helmet's creation can be dated to the late 2nd or early 3rd century from the use of a particular type of decorated rivet as well as some of its design features, such as its pierced eyes.\n\nThere has been much debate about the symbolic meaning of the helmet's design. The griffin was the companion of Nemesis, the goddess of vengeance and fate. They were both seen as agents of death and were often linked with gladiatorial combat. The meaning of the face and headpiece are less clearly identifiable. Suggestions have ranged from the Greek god Attis and the hero Perseus, to the Roman gods Mithras and Jupiter Dolichenus, to a more general Eastern Mediterranean appearance that could possibly have been meant to suggest a Trojan identity. The Phrygian cap was often used by the Romans as a visual motif representing the Trojans.\n\nThe helmet and visor were found in May 2010 in pastureland on a farm owned by Eric Robinson at Crosby Garrett in Cumbria. The finder, an unnamed metal detectorist in his 20s from Peterlee, County Durham, had been detecting with his father in two adjacent fields for some years but had previously only discovered some Roman coins and other small artefacts. The findspot is situated not far from a Roman road. A number of earthworks are located nearby, indicating the presence of a previously unrecorded ancient settlement. The area was strategically placed on the route to the northern frontier of Roman Britain within the territory of the Carvetii tribe. The Roman army would have been present in the area and would certainly have used the nearby road. A Roman auxiliary fort stood only to the north-east at Verterae (Brough Castle).\n\nFollowing the helmet's discovery, the area around the findspot was investigated in a project sponsored by the Tullie House Museum and Art Gallery and the Portable Antiquities Scheme. The earthworks noted earlier were found to be part of a substantial enclosure surrounded by ditches, within which buildings had once stood. The enclosure, which measures as much as long on its southern side, combines both native British and Roman methods of fortification. A sunken area within the enclosure may possibly have served as a paddock for horses, while the evidence for the buildings is concentrated in the enclosure's northern portion. The remnants of Romano-British field systems in the surrounding area show that the area was under cultivation and animal remains found on the site indicate that the inhabitants also raised livestock, including sheep, goats and pigs. The presence of Roman pottery suggests that the inhabitants had adopted some elements of the Roman lifestyle, but their community may well have been there long before the Romans arrived. Archaeological evidence from the enclosure indicates that the site may have been first settled as far back as the Bronze Age, at least 1,000 years before the helmet was deposited.\n\nThe finder discovered the helmet and visor buried together some 25 cm (10 in) below the surface, at a site located on a ledge at the lower end of the settlement. It had been placed onto two stone slabs at the bottom of a hole which had been back-filled with soil. A stone cap had been laid on top. The helmet was found in 33 large fragments and 34 small fragments and had apparently been folded before burial. The visor was mostly intact and had been placed face down. The griffin had become detached and was found with the helmet. No other artefacts were found at the time, but the subsequent Tullie House/PAS excavations at the findspot discovered a number of copper and iron objects, a bead and two Roman coins dating to 330–337. The coins were found within the artificial stone feature in which the helmet had been deposited and may have been buried at the same time.\n\nThe finder did not initially realise that he had found a Roman artefact and thought at first that it was a Victorian ornament. He eventually identified it as Roman by consulting auction catalogues, searching the Internet and getting advice from dealers. Find Liaison Officers from the Portable Antiquities Scheme were notified of the discovery and visited the findspot along with the finder. Christie's commissioned Darren Bradbury, an independent conservator and restorer, to restore the helmet and visor for sale. Although Christie's was asked to delay the restoration so that a full scientific examination could be carried out, this request was not granted and information about the helmet's burial may have been lost as a result. However, the British Museum was able to inspect the find during restoration and X-ray fluorescence spectrometry was carried out to determine the composition of the headpiece, visor and griffin. Bradbury's restoration work took some 240 hours and involved the repair of cracks and holes using resin and cyanoacrylate (\"Super Glue\") , retouched to match the appearance of the surrounding material.\n\nThe helmet and visor have marked similarities to a number of other Roman cavalry helmets. The visor is a cavalry sports type C (H. Russell Robinson classification) or type V (Maria Kohlert classification). Similar examples have been found across the Roman Empire from Britain to Syria. It is of the same type as the Newstead Helmet, found in Scotland in 1905, and its facial features most closely parallel a helmet that was found at Nola in Italy and is now in the British Museum. The rendering of the hair is similar to that of a type C helmet found at Belgrade in Serbia and dated to the 2nd century AD. The griffin ornament is unique, though it may parallel a lost \"sphinx of bronze\" that may originally have been attached to the crest of the Ribchester Helmet, discovered in Lancashire in 1796. The headpiece is nearly unique; only one other example in the form of a Phrygian cap has been found, in a fragmentary state, at Ostrov in Romania, dated to the second half of the 2nd century AD. Rings on the back of the helmet and on the griffin may have been used to attach colourful streamers or ribbons.\n\nSuch helmets were used for \"hippika gymnasia\", cavalry tournaments that were performed in front of emperors and senior commanders. Horses and riders wore lavishly decorated clothes, armour and plumes while performing feats of horsemanship and re-enacting historical and legendary battles, such as the wars of the Greeks and Trojans. According to the Roman writer Arrian:\n\nCombat gear was issued by and belonged to the Roman army, and had to be returned at the end of a wearer's service. Cavalry sports equipment appears to have been treated differently, as soldiers apparently privately commissioned and purchased it for their own use. They evidently retained it after they completed their service. Both helmets and visors have been found in graves and other contexts away from obvious military sites, as well as being deposited in forts and their vicinity. In some cases they were carefully folded up and buried, as in the case of the Guisborough Helmet. The Dutch historian Johan Nicolay has identified a \"lifecycle\" for Roman military equipment in which ex-soldiers took certain items home with them as a reminder of their service and occasionally disposed of them away from garrison sites as grave goods or votive offerings.\n\nThe circumstances in which the Crosby Garret helmet was buried are still unclear, but the discoveries made by the post-discovery Tullie House/PAS excavations have provided much more detail about its context. It was clearly deposited within an artificial feature that had been specially constructed; Stuart Noon of the Museum of Lancashire suggests that the feature may have been intended as a memorial of some sort. It was not buried in an isolated spot but within a long-occupied Romano-British farming settlement that had clearly adopted aspects of Roman culture. Given the settlement's proximity to Roman military locations, it is very possible that some of its inhabitants served with the Roman army, which often recruited mounted auxiliaries from among native peoples. The helmet may well already have been a valuable antique at the time of its burial; if the coins found nearby reflect when it was buried, it could have been over a century old by the time it was deposited. It was deliberately broken before being buried in what may have been intended as a ritual sacrifice. The identity of its owner will never be known, but it could have been that a local inhabitant who had formerly served with the Roman cavalry was responsible for the helmet's deposition.\n\nAlthough the find was reported under the Portable Antiquities Scheme, it was not declared treasure under the 1996 Treasure Act because single items of non-precious metal are not covered by the act. The finder and landowner were thus free to dispose of the helmet as they saw fit. The discovery was publicly announced by Christie's in mid-September 2010; the helmet was the centrepiece of its 7 October auction catalogue, featuring on the cover and six more pages. Its value was put at £200,000 – £300,000 ($309,200 – $463,800). The Tullie House Museum and Art Gallery launched an appeal with the aim of purchasing the helmet and making it the focus of a new Roman frontier gallery due to open in 2011. The campaign immediately attracted numerous donations, including £50,000 from an anonymous overseas benefactor who offered the sum if a matching sum could be raised by the public (it was); a £1 million offer from the National Heritage Memorial Fund; a £300,000 pledge from the Headley Trust and the Monument Trust; £200,000 from the Art Fund; and £75,000 from the J Paul Getty Jr Charitable Trust. By the time of the auction three and a half weeks after the campaign had been launched, the museum had raised enough money to support a bid of up to £1.7 million. Behind the scenes, efforts were made to persuade the finder and landowner to agree a private sale with the museum, but these approaches failed.\n\nThe initial estimate was passed within seconds of the auction opening. Six bidders pushed the price towards a million pounds and Tullie House was forced to drop out at £1.7 million. Two remaining bidders took the bid past £2 million; the winning bidder, an anonymous UK resident and fine art collector bidding by phone, paid a total of £2,330,468.75 including the buyer's premium and VAT. The outcome aroused controversy and prompted calls for the Treasure Act to be revised, though \"British Archaeology\" noted that the circumstances of the helmet's discovery may have resulted in it being outside the scope of even a revised act. It is still possible that the helmet could come into public ownership; if the winning bidder wishes to export it, an export licence would have to be applied for and if a temporary export bar was placed on it an opportunity could arise for funds to be raised by a public institution to purchase the helmet.\n\nSince its sale in 2010, the helmet has been on public display four times. It was lent by its owner to the Royal Academy of Arts in London, and was put on display from 15 September to 9 December 2012 as part of an exhibition of bronzes. From 1 November 2013 until 26 January 2014 the helmet was on display at the Tullie House Museum and Art Gallery in Carlisle, and a printed guide was produced for the occasion. It was subsequently displayed at the British Museum from 28 January to 27 April 2014. The helmet returned to Tullie House to be part of their exhibition for Hadrian's Cavalry, an exhibition spanning ten sites along Hadrian's Wall from April to September 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "629486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629486", "title": "Cued speech", "text": "Cued speech\n\nCued Speech is a visual system of communication used with and among deaf or hard-of-hearing people. It is a phonemic-based system which makes traditionally spoken languages accessible by using a small number of handshapes, known as cues (representing consonants), in different locations near the mouth (representing vowels), as a supplement to speechreading. The National Cued Speech Association defines Cued Speech as \"...a visual mode of communication that uses hand shapes and placements in combination with the mouth movements and speech to make the phonemes of spoken language look different from each other.\" It adds information about the phonology of the word that is not visible on the lips. This allows people with hearing or language difficulties to visually access the fundamental properties of language. It is now used with people with a variety of language, speech, communication, and learning needs. It is different from American Sign Language (ASL), which is a separate language from English. Cued Speech is considered a communication modality, but can be used as a strategy to support auditory rehabilitation, speech articulation, and literacy development.\n\nCued Speech was invented in 1966 by R. Orin Cornett at Gallaudet College, Washington, D.C. After discovering that children with prelingual and profound hearing impairments typically have poor reading comprehension, he developed the system with the aim of improving the reading abilities of such children through better comprehension of the phonemes of English. At the time, some were arguing that deaf children were earning these lower marks because they had to learn two different systems: American Sign Language (ASL) for person-to-person communication and English for reading and writing. As many sounds look identical on the lips (such as and ), the hand signals introduce a visual contrast in place of the formerly acoustic contrast. Cued Speech may also help people hearing incomplete or distorted sound—according to the National Cued Speech Association at cuedspeech.org, \"cochlear implants and Cued Speech are powerful partners\".\n\nSince cued speech is based on making sounds visible to the hearing impaired, cued speech is not limited to use in English speaking nations. Because of the demand for use in other languages/countries, by 1994 Cornett had adapted cueing to 25 other languages and dialects. Originally designed to represent American English, the system was adapted to French in 1977. , Cued Speech has been adapted to approximately 60 languages and dialects, including six dialects of English. For tonal languages such as Thai, the tone is indicated by inclination and movement of the hand. For English, Cued Speech uses eight different hand shapes and four different positions around the mouth.\n\nThough to a hearing person, Cued Speech may look similar to signing, Cued Speech is not a sign language; nor is it a Manually Coded Sign System for a spoken language. Rather, Cued Speech is a manual modality of communication for representing any language at the phonological level (phonetics).\n\nA manual cue in cued speech consists of two components: hand shape and hand position relative to the face. Hand shapes distinguish consonants and hand positions distinguish vowel. A hand shape and a hand position (a \"cue\") together with the accompanying mouthshape, makes up a CV unit - a basic syllable.\n\nCuedspeech.org lists 64 different dialects that CS has been adapted to. Each language takes on CS by looking through the catalog of the language's phonemes and distinguishing which phonemes appear similar when pronounced and thus need a hand sign to differentiate them.\n\nCued Speech is based on the hypothesis that if all the sounds in the spoken language looked clearly different from each other on the lips of the speaker, those hearing impaired would learn a language in much the same way as a hearing person, but through vision rather than audition.\n\nLiteracy is the ability to read and write proficiently, which allows one to understand and communicate ideas so as to participate in a literate society.\nCued speech was designed to help eliminate the difficulties of English language acquisition and literacy development in children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing. Results of research show that accurate and consistent cueing with a child can help in the development of language, communication and literacy but why is this so important and how does it happen? This paper addresses the issues behind literacy development, traditional deaf education, and how using cued speech makes such a difference in the lives of children.\n\nCued speech does indeed achieve its goal of distinguishing phonemes received by the learner, but there is some question of whether it is as helpful to expression as it is to reception. An article by Jacqueline Leybaert and Jesús Alegría discusses how children who are introduced to cued speech before the age of one are up to speed with their hearing peers on receptive vocabulary, though expressive vocabulary lags behind. The writers suggest additional and separate training to teach oral expression if such is desired, but more importantly this reflects the nature of cued speech; to adapt the hearing-impaired to a hearing world, as such discontinuities of expression and reception are not as commonly found for hearing-impaired children learning sign language.\n\nIn her paper \"The Relationship Between Phonological Coding And Reading Achievement In Deaf Children: Is Cued Speech A Special Case?\" (1998), Ostrander notes, \"Research has consistently shown a link between lack of phonological awareness and reading disorders (Jenkins & Bowen, 1994)\" and discusses the research basis for teaching cued speech as an aid to phonological awareness and literacy. Ostrander concludes that further research into these areas is needed and well justified.\n\nThe editor of the \"Cued Speech Journal\" reports that \"Research indicating that Cued Speech does greatly improve the reception of spoken language by profoundly deaf children was reported in 1979 by Gaye Nicholls, and in 1982 by Nicholls and Ling.\"\n\nIn the book \"Choices in Deafness: A Parents' Guide to Communication Options\", Sue Schwartz writes on how Cued Speech helps a deaf child recognize pronunciation. The child can learn how to pronounce words such as \"hors d'oeuvre\" or \"tamale\" or \"Hermione\" that have pronunciations different from how they are spelled. A child can learn about accents and dialects. In New York, coffee may be pronounced \"caw fee\"; in the South, the word friend (\"fray-end\") can be a two-syllable word.\n\nThe topic of deaf education has long been filled with controversy. There are two strategies for teaching the deaf that exist: an aural/oral approach or a manual approach. Those who use aural-oralism believe that children who are deaf or hard-of-hearing should be taught through the use of residual hearing, speech and speechreading. Those promoting a manual approach believe the deaf should be taught through the use of signed languages, such as American Sign Language (ASL).\n\nWithin the United States, proponents of Cued Speech often discuss the system as an alternative to ASL and similar sign languages, although others note that it can be learned in addition to such languages. For the ASL using community, Cued Speech is a unique potential component for learning English as a second language. Within Bilingual-Bicultural models, Cued Speech does not borrow or invent signs from ASL, nor does CS attempt to change ASL syntax or grammar. Rather, CS provides an unambiguous model for language learning that leaves ASL intact.\n\nCued speech has been adapted to more than fifty languages and dialects. However, it is not clear how many of them are actually in use.\n\nSimilar systems have been used for other languages, such as Assisted Kinemes Alphabet in Belgium and the Baghcheban phonetic hand alphabet for Persian.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28341110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28341110", "title": "Culture and Value", "text": "Culture and Value\n\nCulture and Value is a selection from the personal notes of Ludwig Wittgenstein made by Georg Henrik von Wright. It was first published in English by Basil Blackwell, in German as \"Vermischte Bemerkungen\" in 1977 and the text has been emended in following editions. An English translation by Peter Winch was printed in 1980, and reprinted in 1984. Ten years later Alois Pichler revised the original edition, and the resulting version was published in 1998 with a new translation by Peter Winch.\n\nThe remarks are arranged in chronological order with an indication of their year of origin. Nearly half of them stem from the period after the completion (in 1945) of Part One of Philosophical Investigations.\n\nAt the end of the book appears a poem which was offered by Wittgenstein to the Hofrat Ludwig Hänsel, and it is assumed that he was its author.\n\nAmong the published notes particular attention has been bestowed on a passage where Wittgenstein enumerated people who, in his judgement, had influenced him: Boltzmann, Hertz, Schopenhauer, Frege, Russell, Kraus, Loos, Weininger, Spengler and Sraffa. Of note to literary scholars, the book also contains some of Wittgenstein's thoughts on Shakespeare, negatively comparing his depictions of character to those of Tolstoy.\n\nA further note dating from the same year (1931) witnesses the first occurrence of the term 'family resemblance' in a discussion of Spengler's work.\n"}
{"id": "12089810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12089810", "title": "Cuyuxquihui", "text": "Cuyuxquihui\n\nCuyuxquihui is an archaeological site located in the Tecolutla valley of Veracruz, Mexico, in the region of the Totonac culture, about southeast of El Tajín or southeast of Paso de Correo.\n\nThe name of Cuyuxquihui is a composed word from the Totonac language: \"cuyu\", armadillo and \"quihui\", wood and it points to the similarity of the local fauna to the shell of that animal.\n\nThis site is about southwest from Las Higueras (archaeological site), another Totonac site in the region.\n\nThe Totonac Culture, whose name is possibly translated as \"three hearts\", likely referring to three centers of this culture:\n\n\nThis culture had a large ceramic variety and stone sculpture, monumental architecture and cities with an advanced urban concept.\nThe Totonac Languages are a family of closely related languages spoken by approximately 200,000 Totonac and Tepehua people in the states of Veracruz, Puebla, and Hidalgo in Mexico. The Totonacan languages are not demonstrably related to any other languages, although they share numerous areal features with other languages of the Mesoamerican Sprachbund, such as the Mayan languages and Nahuatl.\n\nThis settlement would seem to have been a fortress, due to some architectonic characteristics; the existence of retaining walls that run throughout the esplanade north to south has been confirmed; its height makes it relatively inaccessible from the west, as well as by the cliff that borders it to the east. It is believed it was required due to the large social mobility that ensued after the fall of Tajín.\n\nMaterial remains on the various regional settlements, leads to believe that a good part of them were El Tajín contemporaries and that some developed after its gradual abandonment. Evidence seem to indicate that the Cuyuxquihui settlement was founded in 1250 CE.\n\nCuyuxquihui developed, after the El Tajín decline, as an important ceremonial activities center. Diverse structures were constructed by means of ground surface leveling, construction element characteristic of the “Tajín Chico” site. The first constructions used selected materials, which were applied with mortar elements and subsequently were finished with gross stucco and painted.\n\nCuyuxquihui was conquered by the Aztecs, Moctezuma Ilhuicamina (1398 – 1469) towards 1465, probably one of the most important reasons of the cultural mix of the totonac elements, mexicas and huastecos.\n\nMost important buildings:\n\nThis is a four bodied pyramid and a small vertical wall; remains of blue and red paintings were found on it. Objects found on this building are: a knife, fine ceramics and tablets with Quetzalcoatl engravings, indicate that the building was used for ritual functions.\n\nThis structure is considered the oldest in the site.\n\nAt the top of this structure, a two meter high monolith was found, it has evidence of having been re-modeled in three occasions; the last one, with Aztec influence occurred in 1400 CE.\n\nThe structure is also called “dos unidos” (two jointed); in the top both have a small platform, over which probably was another construction, that is not there anymore.\nThe court is “I” shaped and measures 72 meters long by 4 wide, it was constructed on a topographic accident.\n\n"}
{"id": "10404203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10404203", "title": "Dravidian University", "text": "Dravidian University\n\nThe Dravidian University, Kuppam, Chittoor district, Andhra Pradesh, India was established by the Government of Andhra Pradesh, through a Legislature Act (No. 17 of 1997) with the initial support extended by the governments of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala for an integrated development of Dravidian languages and culture.\nThe university, which formally came into existence in 1997, began functioning with two departments in 1998 and has today grown into a strong institution of 20 academic departments and 6 research centres.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7967131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7967131", "title": "Dépeçage", "text": "Dépeçage\n\nIn law, dépeçage is a conflict of laws where different issues within a case may be governed by the laws of different states. In common law countries \"dépeçage\" usually means a single contract which provides that different parts of the contract shall be governed by different laws. In the United States, \"depecage choice of law theory\" is where the court considers disagreement among states over which rule of law is applicable to each issue.\n\nThe concept originated in civil law countries, but has also been adopted in common law countries such as the United Kingdom and Ireland pursuant to the Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Article 3(1)).\n\nIn practice, it is relatively rare for a contract to have more than one expressly chosen governing law. Two examples of such situations are:\n"}
{"id": "30858940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30858940", "title": "Education Data Exchange Network", "text": "Education Data Exchange Network\n\nThe Education Data Exchange Network (EDEN) is an automated system designed to support data transfer among state and local education agencies and the United States Department of Education (ED).\nEDEN began as a State Data Network pilot test among Oregon, Nebraska and ED in 1998. At the time all reports on federal grant programs were written and stored in paper file cabinets in ED program offices, although many of those reports contained similar, and often inconsistent, information. States, particularly the Council of Chief State School Officers and their data managers, called on ED to automate and streamline the process. Based on the success of the pilot test, the [Office of Management and Budget] (OMB) required ED to institute a Performance-Based Data Management Initiative (PBDMI) in 2000. PBDMI was designed to gather statistics from each state such as school populations within subgroups (race, gender, etc.), graduation rates, school spending, and federal program performance. This initiative resulted in EDEN. It was designed to:\n\nBy 2004, all states participated in EDEN. In 2005 ED began to require that all elementary and secondary level federal reports, including those to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) be submitted through EDEN.\nThe ED Office of the Inspector General and the General Accounting Office published reports critical of the program's management.[1] In March 2005, the Secretary of Education, Margaret Spellings abolished the office administering EDEN and removed all managers from managerial positions.[2]\nPBDMI and EDEN data gathering is complicated by the fact that no data sent to federal agencies may contain private data about an individual student that would violate the FERPA guidelines. So a state agency cannot just send a list of students and their test scores. A reporting agency can only send summary subgroup data for subgroup populations above a small number such as five.\nEDEN data sets consists of three types:\nThere are XML representations of EDEN files as well as XML schemas to validate these files available from the ed.gov file specifications site (www2.ed.gov/about/inits/ed/edfacts/eden/non-xml/c163-8-0.doc).EDEN program data is now (2014) aggregated in the EDFACTS system for all program offices, senior management, and federal reporting. EDEN data collection is now operated out of the NCES.\n\nEDEN received many commendations including from CCSSO, the Council for Excellence in Government, and from the Office of Management and Budget in the President's 2005 Budget submission, EDEN was selected as a model project for in depth review in a 2005 presidential transition Guide for Federal Leaders and Managers. A General Accounting Office report commended the initiative and recommended increased support for it from ED administration, including making the program mandatory and including NCES reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "53815472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53815472", "title": "Elizabeth Warder Crozer Campbell", "text": "Elizabeth Warder Crozer Campbell\n\nElizabeth Campbell (1893–1971) was an American archeologist, notable for proposing a much earlier date for the presence of man in the desert Southwest than was generally accepted. She worked with her husband William (Bill) Campbell and first proposed that artifacts found along the shores of Lake Mojave and other Pleistocene lakes and rivers of the desert West were contemporaneous with the presence of water. They showed that there were virtually no sites that were not associated with archaic water sources. They hypothesized that the geologic features associated with the artifacts could be used to date the period of human habitation. This is the first use of what has become known as environmental archaeology.\n\nElizabeth Crozer was the youngest of four daughters born to upper class parents: John Price Crozer II and Elizabeth Steger Warder Crozer of Upland, Pennsylvania. She was born on August 11, 1893 at the Crozer summer cottage in Beach Haven, New Jersey.\n\nHer father was the grandson of John Price Crozer, founder of the Crozer textile mills and possessor of the Crozer fortune. When the elder John Crozer died the younger John Crozer inherited the mills and formed a partnership with his father under the name: S. A. Crozer and Son. When S. A Crozer died in 1910 John inherited coal companies, an iron and steel company, shared of a railroad and farms. The Crozer family founded the Crozer Theological Seminary, the Crozer Arboretum, and the Crozer Quarterly. They also built the George K. Crozer Mansion and are the namesake of the Crozer-Keystone Health System.\n\nHer uncle was Hermann Volrath Hilprecht, professor of Assyriology at the University of Pennsylvania and a scholar of Near Eastern archaeology. He was involved in the excavations at the Near Eastern site of Nippur. Campbell described in her diary how her Aunt Sallie would travel with Hilprecht to Europe and how \"..[s]he never let her loveliness interfere with anything. She climbed the pyramids with three Arabs to push and pull.\"\n\nCampbell was schooled at home by a French tutor until age fourteen. In the fall of 1909 she began attending Miss Irwin's School (later the Agnes Irwin School) and graduated in 1911. Until World War II the education of most daughters of Philadelphia high society who attended Miss Irwin's ended at the secondary level. This was Campbell's last formal education.\n\nCampbell married William (Bill) Campbell in May 1920. Bill had served in World War I and had been gassed two days before the armistice of November 11, 1918. Bill's lung damage due to exposure to mustard gas caused them to move to Los Angeles, California and later to the drier climes of Twentynine Palms where they established a homestead.\n\nWhen Campbell's father died in 1926 she inherited a trust that enabled her and Bill to live comfortably for the rest of their lives. The Campbells were considered pillars of the Twentynine Palms community and developed a reputation as benefactors of both individual and community endeavours.\n\nThe Campbells maintained their residence in Twentynine Palms, and lived in a summer home on the shores of Lake Tahoe, near Glenbrook, Nevada. It was here that Bill died in June 1944. After Bill's death Campbell sold the house in Twentynine Palms and moved to Carson City, Nevada where she met and married Joe Cecil Turman. The marriage lasted a short time before it was annulled. She moved to Tucson, Arizona around 1952 where she lived until 1961.\n\nWhile living in Tucson she became a research associate with the Arizona State Museum and continued to work on the collections she and Bill had assembled over the years. In 1957 she had Arizona State Museum exhibit designer Robert Baker design a laboratory on the second floor of her Tucson home. During this time she also wrote a memoir about homesteading in Twentynine Palms, \"The Desert was Home.\" Campbell made a trip to Twentynine Palms for an event marking the publication of her book and made the decision to move back there. She remained in Twentynine Palms for the rest of her life. Elizabeth Campbell died on December 21, 1971. She was cremated and her cremains were interred alongside those of her husband Bill in a single plot in Twentynine Palms Cemetery. Her obituary was published in \"The Masterkey.\"\n\nCampbell developed an interest in archaeology after she and Bill moved to Twentynine Palms. She began collecting arrowheads from nearby sand dunes while gathering firewood. When Bill McHaney, an old prospector who often visited their camp, told stories about Indian culture and caches of pottery, she listened and took notes. They would drive their trusty automobile -- \"The Ship of the Desert\"—into the surrounding countryside looking for archaeological sites and visiting locations that McHaney told them about. It was said that archaeology met Campbell's need for \"intellectual effort and accomplishment\" and ameliorated the lonely desert life. The Campbells were among the earliest archaeologists in the California desert. At the time (1925) virtually nothing was known about how long humans had lived in the deserts and the use of stratigraphy as a means of chronological ordering of archaeological assemblages was just beginning.\n\nCampbell's first monograph was published by the Southwest Museum in 1931. In 1932 the Campbells were appointed fellows in archaeology of the Southwest Museum and hosted a conference in Twentynine Palms on April 22–23 of that year.\n\nIn 1933 the Campbells began their investigation of Pinto Basin. The area is associated with an extinct river channel and a dry lake bed. Campbell began consulting with geologists and paleontologists at the California Institute of Technology. Geologist David Scharf authored the geological chapter of the Pinto Basin report in one of the first collaborations of geologists and archaeologists. The artifacts from Pinto Basin were associated with the dry stream channel known as Pinto Wash and the lake bed known as Palen Dry Lake. This suggested that these sites were occupied during the period of time when the desert was considerably wetter. The Campbells argued that this wet period was not recent and presented as evidence the ground-water level being 97 feet below the surface of the surrounding arid mountain ranges. Starting with the Pinto Basin report, and for all research after, Campbell collaborated and consulted with well-known professionals in the fields of geology, paleontology, and archaeology. This increased her professional status and standing with the archaeological community.\n\nIn early 1934 the Campbells collected artifacts from the high shorelines of Silver Lake playa (the northern basin of Lake Mojave) and in 1935 they collected from the shorelines of Soda Lake playa (the southern basin of Lake Mojave). Campbell stated she and Bill wanted to become experts in playa culture. Campbell believed that most ancient sites would be located in the Great Basin.\n\nIn 1936 Campbell published her seminal paper \"Archaeological Problems in the Southern California Deserts\" in which she outlined her hypothesis that associated prehistoric peoples with certain landforms. She believed a thorough study of the spatial relationships of artifact assemblages to the landscape would illuminate their chronology. This approach is clearly laid out in the Lake Mohave report where she wrote: \n\nNoted archaeologists of the day disagreed with Campbell's interpretation and this rejection of her hypothesis continued into the 1950s. Malcolm Rogers' report contained a number of factual errors that were not recognized until the 1950s and 60s.\n\nArchaeologists continue to study the Campbell collections house at Joshua Tree National Park and the Autry Museum, and they continue to revisit the sites they visited, collected and studied. Elizabeth Warder Crozer Campbell's contributions include:\n"}
{"id": "52766360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766360", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Bahrain", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Bahrain\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Bahrain () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Bahrain. It is located in Manama.\n\n"}
{"id": "47830387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47830387", "title": "Equestrian Monument of Cosimo I", "text": "Equestrian Monument of Cosimo I\n\nThe Equestrian Monument of Cosimo I is a bronze equestrian statue erected in 1594 in the Piazza della Signoria in Florence, region of Tuscany, Italy.\n\nThis statue follows the Classical Roman tradition of Equestrian statues as the monument to a ruler's power, evident from the Statue of Marcus Aurelius in ancient Rome and the Regisole in Ferrara, and continued in the Renaissance by examples such as Donatello's Statue of Gattamelata (1453) in Padua and Verrocchio's Statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni (1488) in Venice.\n\nThis monument was commissioned by Cosimo's son Ferdinando I from the sculptor Giambologna, who also completed the Rape of the Sabines in the adjacent Loggia dei Lanzi. The Cosimo statue stands in front of the north corner of the Palazzo della Signoria, the northernmost of the row of statues, adjacent to the Fountain of Neptune (1563) by Ammannati, that had been commissioned by Cosimo himself. Together this duo celebrates the land and sea ambitions of Cosimo. The base of the statue has reliefs with scenes from the life of Cosimo, including his coronation in Rome as Grand-Duke in 1570 and his entrance into Siena as a ruler (1557) after his victory over that republic.\n\nThe posture of the trotting horse in this statue is similar to those of prior statues, with right leg raised, however unlike Marcus Aurelius, Cosimo uses stirrups and his horse shows the restraint of the bridle, albeit without much tension. Cosimo, like Gattemalata, holds a military baton, armor, and sheathed sword.\n\nSome sources state the man and horse were cast separately, and the combined weight of the two was 23 thousand pounds. A few decades hence, Ferdinando I would have his own Equestrian monument in Piazza dell'Annunziata.\n"}
{"id": "16313813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16313813", "title": "Eyesore", "text": "Eyesore\n\nAn eyesore is something that is largely considered to look unpleasant or ugly. Its technical usage is as an alternative perspective to the notion of landmark. Common examples include dilapidated buildings, graffiti, litter, polluted areas, and excessive commercial signage such as billboards. Some eyesores may be a matter of opinion such as controversial modern architecture (see also spite house), transmission towers or wind turbines. Natural eyesores include feces, mud and weeds.\n\nIn the USA, the National Association of Realtors says an eyesore can shave about 10% off the value of a nearby listing.\n\nClean-up programmes to improve or remove eyesores are often started by local bodies or even national governments. These are frequently called \"Operation Eyesore\". High-profile international events such as the Olympic Games usually trigger such activity.\n\nOthers contend that it is best to nip such problems in the bud by addressing them while they are small, since signs of neglect encourage anti-social behaviour such as vandalism and fly-tipping. This strategy is known as \"fixing broken windows\".\n\nWhether some constructions are eyesores is a matter of opinion which may change over time. Landmarks are often called eyesores.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13393727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13393727", "title": "Form and content", "text": "Form and content\n\nIn art and art criticism, form and content are considered distinct aspects of a work of art. The term \"form\" refers to the work's style, techniques and media used, and how the elements of design are implemented. \"Content\", on the other hand, refers to a work's subject matter, or what is being depicted.\n\nIncongruity between form and content can be humorous.\n\n\nForm is one of the most frequent terms in literary criticism.it is often used merely to designate a genre or for patterns of meter lines and rhymes."}
{"id": "26746599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26746599", "title": "Gender essentialism", "text": "Gender essentialism\n\nGender essentialism is the theory that there are certain universal, innate, biologically- or psychologically-based features of gender (different from sex) that are at the root of observed differences in the behavior of men and women. In Western civilization, it is suggested in writings going back to ancient Greece. With the advent of Christianity, the earlier Greek model was expressed in theological discussions as the doctrine that there are two distinct sexes, male and female created by God, and that our nature is to be immutably one or the other. This view remained essentially unchanged until the middle of the 19th century, until Darwin's publications on evolution. This changed the locus of the origin of the essential differences, in Sandra Bem's words, \"from God's grand creation [to] its scientific equivalent: evolution's grand creation,\" but the belief in an immutable origin had not changed.\n\nIt was not until the middle of the 20th century and the writings of second-wave feminism starting with Simone de Beauvoir that the first alternative theory for gender difference was proposed. This theory was developed by feminist theorists in the 1960s, 70s, and beyond, and described gender difference as being socially constructed, namely that the origin of gender difference is not in-born, but learned from interacting in society. Feminists are by no means unanimous in supporting theories of the social construction of gender. Many adhere more to gender essentialism, or to some intermediate viewpoint. The two theories — gender essentialism and social constructionism — inform an active debate about the origins of gender differences in the fields of feminism, philosophy, and sociology which are sometimes acrimonious and break out into local and national politics.\n\nIn feminist theory and gender studies, gender essentialism is the attribution of a fixed essence to women. Women's essence is assumed to be universal and is generally identified with those characteristics viewed as being specifically feminine. These ideas of femininity are usually related to biology and often concern psychological characteristics such as nurturance, empathy, support, non-competitiveness, etc. Feminist theorist Elizabeth Grosz states in her 1995 publication, \"Space, Time and Perversion: Essays on the Politics of Bodies\", that essentialism \"entails the belief that those characteristics defined as women's essence are shared in common by all women at all times. It implies a limit of the variations and possibilities of change—it is not possible for a subject to act in a manner contrary to her essence. Her essence underlies all the apparent variations differentiating women from each other. Essentialism thus refers to the existence of fixed characteristic, given attributes, and ahistorical functions that limit the possibilities of change and thus of social reorganization.\"\n\nFurthermore, biologism is a particular form of essentialism that defines women's essence in terms of biological capacities. This form of essentialism is based on a form of reductionism, meaning that social and cultural factors are the effects of biological causes. Biological reductivism \"claim[s] that anatomical and physiological differences—especially reproductive differences—characteristic of human males and females determine both the meaning of masculinity and femininity and the appropriately different positions of men and women in society\". Biologism uses the functions of reproduction, nurturance, neurology, neurophysiology, and endocrinology to limit women's social and psychological possibilities according to biologically established limits. It asserts the science of biology to constitute an unalterable definition of identity, which inevitably \"amounts to a permanent form of social containment for women\". Naturalism is also a part of the system of essentialism where a fixed nature is postulated for women through the means of theological or ontological rather than biological grounds. An example of this would be the claim that women's nature is a God-given attribute, or the ontological invariants in Sartrean existentialism or Freudian psychoanalysis that distinguish the sexes in the \"claim that the human subject is somehow free or that the subjects social position is a function of his or her genital morphology\". These systems are used to homogenize women into one singular category and to strengthen a binary between men and women.\n\nThe official view of Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons; LDS) is an essentialist belief in gender. The 1995 LDS statement, states the official view, and declares gender to be an \"essential characteristic\" of sons and daughters of God, and an \"eternal identity.\" Mormon people generally believe in an eternal life, and that it would be impossible for one's eternal gender to be different from one's physical, birth sex. Church regulations permit, but don't mandate, ex-communication for those who choose sexual reassignment surgery, and deny them membership in the priesthood.\n\nThe main alternative to gender essentialism is the theory of the social construction of gender. In contrast to gender essentialism which views differences between men and women as innate, universal, and immutable, social constructionism views gender as created and influenced by society and culture, which can be different according to time and place, and that roles societally defined as appropriate behavior for a person of that specific sex then become the standard to which members of that sex are measured against. Theories of the social construction of gender grew out of theories in second-wave feminism in the latter half of the twentieth century. \n\nJudith Butler's theory of gender performativity can be seen as a means to show \"the ways in which reified and naturalized conceptions of gender might be understood as constituted and, hence, capable of being constituted differently\". Butler utilizes the phenomenological theory of acts which has been espoused by Edmund Husserl, Maurice Merleau-Ponty and George Herbert Mead, which seeks to explain the mundane way in which \"social agents constitute social reality through language gesture and all manner of symbolic social sign\", to create her conception of gender performativity. She begins by quoting Simone de Beauvoir's claim: \"...one is not born, but, rather, becomes a woman.\" This statement distinguishes sex from gender suggesting that gender is an aspect of identity that is gradually acquired. This distinction between sex, as the anatomical and factic aspects of the female body, and gender, as the cultural meaning that forms the body and the various modes of bodily articulation, means that it is \"no longer possible to attribute the values or social functions of women to biological necessity\". Butler interprets this claim as an appropriation of the doctrine of constituting acts from the tradition of phenomenology. Through this understanding Butler concludes that \"gender is in no way a stable identity or locus of agency from which various acts proceed; rather, it is an identity tenuously constituted in time—an identity instituted through the stylization of the body and, hence, must be understood as the mundane way in which bodily gestures, movements and enactments of various kinds constitute the illusion of an abiding gendered self\". \n\nCandace West and Sarah Fenstermaker also conceptualize gender \"as a routine, methodical, and ongoing accomplishment, which involves a complex of perceptual, interactional and micropolitical activities that cast particular pursuits as expressions of manly and womanly 'natures'\" in their 1995 text \"Doing Difference\".\n\nThis does not mean that the material nature of the human body is denied, instead, it is re-comprehended as separate from the process by which \"the body comes to bear cultural meanings\". Therefore, the essence of gender is not natural because gender itself is not a natural fact. Gender is the outcome of the sedimentation of specific corporeal acts that have been inscribed through repetition and rearticulation over time onto the body. \"If the reality of gender is constituted by the performance itself, then there is no recourse to an essential and unrealized 'sex' or 'gender' which gender performances ostensibly express\".\n\nAnalyzing gender has been a concern of feminist theory, thus there have been many modes of understanding how gender addresses meaning. However, developing such theories of gender can obscure the significance of other aspects of women's identities, such as race, class, and sexual orientation, which marginalizes the experiences and voices of women of colour, non-Western women, working-class women, queer women, and trans women. As a challenge to feminist theory, essentialism refers to the problem of theorizing gender as both an identity and a mark of difference. This refers to a problem for the concept of subjectivity presupposed by feminist theories of gender. There are arguments primarily by black and lesbian feminists that feminist theory has capitalized on the idea of gender essentialism by using the category of gender to appeal to \"women's experience\" as a whole. By doing this, feminist theory makes universalizing and normalizing claims for and about women, which are only true of white, Western, heterosexual, cisgender, middle- or upper-class women, but which it implies are situations, perspectives and experiences true to all women. Patrice DiQuinzio discusses \"how critics of exclusion see this as a function of feminist theory's commitment to theorizing gender exclusively and articulating women's experiences in terms of gender alone\". Instead one must theorize feminism in a way that takes the interlocking category of experiences between race, class, gender, and sexuality into consideration; an intersectional model of thinking.\n\nDiQuinzio goes on to discuss how essentialism and exclusion work in relation to motherhood. Feminist theory which has used the idea of woman's essence to link gender socialization with exclusively female mothering, such as Nancy Chodorow's work, can be exclusionary and essentialist in the ways that it involves making universalizing and normalizing claims about mothers without taking social, historical, or cultural context into account. Judith Butler claims that \"the effort to characterize a feminine specificity through recourse to maternity, whether biological or social, produce[s] a factionalization and even a disavowal of feminism altogether\". Not all women are mothers; \"some cannot be some are too young or too old to be, some choose not to be, and for some who are mothers, that is not necessarily the rallying point of their politicization in feminism\".\n\nFurthermore, the essentialism of gender in feminist theory presents a problem when understanding transfeminism. Instead of understanding trans studies as another subsection or subjectivity to be subsumed under the category of \"woman\", we understand the task of trans studies to be \"the breaking apart of this category, particularly if that breaking requires a new articulation of the relation between sex and gender, male and female\". Trans subjectivity challenges the binary of gender essentialism as it disrupts the \"fixed taxonomies of gender\" and this creates a resistance in women's studies, which as a discipline has historically depended upon the fixedness of gender. The expressions that exist in trans identities break down the very possibility of gender essentialism by queering the binary of gender, gender roles and expectations. In recent years through the written work of transfeminists like Sandy Stone, the theory around trans women and their inclusion into feminist spaces has opened, just like it has opened in respect to race, class, sexuality and ability historically.\n\nSocial categories such as gender are often essentialized by not only adults but also children, as young children are recorded to display essentialist beliefs about gender preferences and indications. Proponents of gender essentialism propose that young children from the age of 4 to 10 show the tendency to endorse the role of nature in determining gender-stereotyped properties, an \"early bias to view gender categories as predictive of essential\" which gradually declines as they pass elementary school years. Another indicator of gender essentialism in child development is how they begin to employ essentialist manifestation as a tool for reasoning and perceiving gender stereotyping from as young as 24 months.\n\nPoststructuralism indicates \"a field of critical practices that cannot be totalized and that, therefore, interrogate the formative and exclusionary power of sexual difference\", says Butler. Therefore, through lens of poststructuralism, the critique of gender essentialism is possible because these poststructuralist theory generates analyses, critiques, and political interventions, and opens up a political imaginary for feminism that otherwise has been constrained. A feminist poststructuralism does not designate a position from which one operates, but instead it offers a set of tools and terms to be \"reused and rethought, exposed as strategic instruments and effects, and subjected to a critical reinscription and redeployment\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35099748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35099748", "title": "Hilde Danielsen", "text": "Hilde Danielsen\n\nHilde Danielsen (born 1971) is a Norwegian social anthropologist and gender studies expert. She is editor-in-chief of Tidsskrift for kjønnsforskning (the Norwegian Journal of Gender Studies). She is noted for her research on housewives.\n\nShe has a cand.philol. degree from the University of Bergen in 1998 and a dr.art. degree from 2006. She has formerly worked for the Norwegian Museum of Hydropower and Industry and now works as a senior researcher at the Rokkan Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46569923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46569923", "title": "History of Modern Biomedicine Research Group", "text": "History of Modern Biomedicine Research Group\n\nThe History of Modern Biomedicine Research Group (HoMBRG) is an academic organisation specialising in recording and publishing the oral history of twentieth and twenty-first century biomedicine. It was established in 1990 as the Wellcome Trust's History of Twentieth Century Medicine Group, and reconstituted in October 2010 as part of the School of History at Queen Mary University of London.\n\nThe project originated as The Wellcome Trust's History of Twentieth Century Medicine Group, and later functioned as the Academic Unit of the Wellcome Institute for the History of Medicine. It was originally established at the Royal College of Physicians in 1990 and comprised Sir Christopher Booth (the Harveian Librarian) and Professor Tilli Tansey. Its purpose was to devise ways of stimulating historians, scientists & clinicians to discuss, preserve and write the history of recent biomedicine. The Group's activities were originally overseen by a Programme Committee, which included professional historians of medicine, practising scientists and clinicians. From 2000–2010 it was a constituent part of the Wellcome Trust Centre for the History of Medicine at University College London. In October 2010 it moved to the School of History, Queen Mary’s University, London. In 2011 the Group received a Strategic Award from the Wellcome Trust to embark upon a new project, \"Makers of Modern Biomedicine\".\n\nAn archive of oral and written history, plus videoed interviews, has been compiled by the HoMBRG and consists of three projects: Witness Seminars, Today's Neuroscience, Tomorrow's History and SAD at 30. All material and documentation related to the project is deposited with the Wellcome Library. The resultant publications are open access, and made freely available online via the HoMBRG website, a partnership with the Medical Heritage Library, and iTunes.\n\nThe topics covered by the archive fall broadly into five themes: clinical genetics, neuroscience, global health and infectious diseases, medical technologies and ethics of research and practice.\n\nResources from the archive are online at The History of Modern Biomedicine Archive and the internet archive\n\nThe Group's 'Today's Neuroscience, Tomorrow's History' initiative (2006-2008) was funded by a Wellcome Trust Public Engagement grant. It recorded interviews on three themes, neuropharmacology, psychiatry/neuropsychology, and neuroimaging, with twelve neuroscientists, including Geoffrey Burnstock, Salvador Moncada, Michael Rutter and Uta Frith.\n\nA series of witness seminars began in 1993, with regular meetings being held, about four per year. These recorded the voices of those who have contributed, in diverse ways, to the development of modern biomedicine, using oral history methodology. The aim is to make the series widely available for education, research and outreach purposes. The results are published online, with most edited transcripts appearing within 18 months.\n\nWitness Seminar participants have included Usama Abdulla, Thomas Brown, Professor Dugald Cameron, Professor Stuart Campbell, John Fleming, Professor John MacVicar, Professor Peter Wells, Dr James Willocks, Sir Douglas Black, Sir John Gray, Sir Raymond Hoffenberg, Dr Sheila Howarth, Professor Peter Lachmann, Sir Patrick Nairne, Professor Sir Stanley Peart and Dr Peter Williams.\n\nEach witness seminar is transcribed and published by HoMBRG. Recent volumes have been edited by E M Jones, C Overy and E M Tansey. there are 62 Volumes. Titles include \"The Development of Brain Banks\", \"Narrative Medicine\"; \"Migraine\"; \"The National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles\"; and \"The Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC)\" The publication of these works are often referred to by specialists in their fields of medical practice.\n\nThe first two volumes were reviewed in \"Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine\" in 1999, with the comment, \"Few books are so intellectually stimulating or uplifting.\" Reviewing the series in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 2002, medical historian Irvine Loudon wrote, \"This is oral history at its best...all the volumes make compulsive reading...they are, primarily, important historical records\n\nIn 2014 a seminar, chaired by Professor Sir Brian Follett, with Norman Rosenthal and Alfred Lewy, entitled 'The Recent History of Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD): 30 Years of SAD' was undertaken on the topic of Seasonal Affective Disorder. This resulted in a number of podcasts, and Volume 51 of the Witness Seminar publications.\n\nIn 2015 the Group began producing oral history interviews with notable scientists and clinicians. This material is made freely available on YouTube (in the case of video interviews) and the Group’s website, as are the transcripts of both audio and video interviews.\n\nAs the HoMBRG project came to an end, a Wikimedian in Residence was engaged, to create Wikidata records for the publications and those people interviewed in them.\n\n"}
{"id": "44783607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44783607", "title": "Impact of farmers' markets on economies within the United States", "text": "Impact of farmers' markets on economies within the United States\n\nFarmers' markets are markets in which producers sell directly to consumers. While farmers' markets do not have a measurable impact on the United States economy as a whole, many studies have found that farmers' markets impact state and municipal economies as well as vendors, local businesses, and consumers. These impacts are measured using the IMPLAN Input-Output Model and the Sticky Economic Evaluation Device (SEED), in addition to other methods. The economic impacts that are most frequently measured include effects on the revenue and income of local growers and local businesses, the effects on job creation, and the effects on other sectors of state and local economies. Some obstacles that may reduce impact or create negative economic effects include over-saturation, socioeconomic barriers, the opportunity cost of farmers' markets, and the projected unsustainable growth of farmers' markets in the United States.\n\nResearchers use different methods to calculate the economic impact of farmers' markets on economies in the United States. The reason to include methodologies in this article is to demonstrate how impact is measured differently, which influences the findings and conclusions of the studies. The most common methods used are the IMPLAN Input-Output Model and the Sticky Economic Evaluation Device, which are mostly used to calculate the impact of farmers' markets on state, municipal, and local economies.\n\nThe IMPLAN input-output model is a quantitative economic software, technique, or data that facilitates analysis of spending. This analytic tool, created by the U.S. Forest Service and the University of Minnesota, uses the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) input-output criterion combined with other data to compile tables that identify cash flows between different sectors of the economy. IMPLAN methodology has been used in studies on Portland and Iowan farmers' markets to calculate the economic impact by studying consumption-based transactions. It is also used to compute data supporting studies on the impact of farmers' markets on vendor revenue.\n\nMarket Umbrella is a nonprofit organization that developed the Sticky Economic Evaluation Device (SEED), a tool that measures the economic impact of a public market on neighboring businesses. SEED multiplies the annual revenue generated by consumers of the market and abutting businesses by the multiplier. Specifically, the Regional Input-Output Modeling System II multiplier is used, which is generated by the BEA (BEA). The RIMS II multiplier measures how many dollars remain in the regional or local economy. \"The greater the interaction each dollar has with the local economy, the larger the multiplier.\" This methodology also gathers information through customer-intercept surveys and head count tabulation in order to calculate the economic impact the market has on its region. Market Umbrella provides markets with access to their survey templates and facilitates report generating through the use of online accounts on their website. The sales tax revenue generated by market consumers, including purchases at neighboring businesses, is additionally captured. The SEED methodology, developed with farmers' markets in mind, has been used to measure the economic impact of Crescent City Farmers' Markets.\n\nThere are few studies that focus on the impact of farmers' markets on the United States economy and on regional economies in the U.S. The USDA has the most research surrounding regional variation and overall composition of farmers' markets.\n\nIn 2012, the output generated by United States farms contributed $166.9 billion to gross domestic product, which was 1 percent of GDP. This figure includes all farms participating in economic activity, which suggests that the total contribution of farmers' markets to the U.S. economy in terms of output is very small.\n\nNevertheless, the number of farmers' markets in the United States is growing rapidly, with growth increasing by 8.6 percent per year on average. About 30 percent of these new markets are less than five years old and most of them report sales that are half the national average. These new markets have on average 22 vendors compared to the national average of 31, and 430 customers per week compared to the national average of 959. This explains why the growth in sales from $888 million in 2000 to $1 billion in 2005 was only 2.5 percent in spite of the rapid growth in the number of farmers' markets. The revenue generated from farmers' markets was $31,923 per month according to a 2005 USDA study.\n\nThe regions that have the most lucrative farmers' markets are the Far West and the mid-Atlantic region. Managers of farmers' markets reported in a 2005 study that about 15 percent of the vendors at their market earned between $25,000 and $100,000 annually. This range was the largest reported level of income across the regions. The North Central and Rocky Mountain regions in contrast experienced the lowest level of sales with revenue between $1,000 and $5,000. This may be due in part to the seasonal variability of different regions. The markets in the Rocky Mountain region were open on average only 3.92 months, while markets in the Far West were open for 4.9 months on average. The Far West also experienced the greatest level of sales with $476,733 per market per year, while the Rocky Mountain region experienced the lowest level of sales with $90,169 per market per year.\n\nMany studies assess the impact of farmers' markets in the United States on state economies and municipal economies. Most of these studies find that farmers' markets benefit state and local economies because they have direct and indirect effects on personal income, job creation, and on output generated in other sectors of the economy including manufacturing and transportation.\n\nThe Iowa Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship conducted a study in 2009 to measure the economic impact of farmers' markets in Iowa using the IMPLAN Input-Output (I-O) model. Iowa is fourth in the nation in terms of its number of farmers' markets and ranks second in terms of the number of farmers' markets per capita.\n\nThe report shows that sales among Iowa farmers' markets increased by 92 percent since 2004, reaching $38.4 million in sales in 2009. The tables entitled \"Market sales per city, 2004\" and \"Market sales per city, 2009\" show the overall increase in sales among different areas of Iowa between 2004 and 2009.\n\nUsing the IMPLAN I-O model, the $38.4 million in farmers' market sales translated into \"$59.4 million of gross sales among sectors in the Iowa economy.\" Additionally, the I-O model found that $12.2 million was linked to \"personal income effects directly or indirectly related to farmers' market activity.\" The study also concluded that 374 jobs were directly linked to farmers' market activity, while 200 jobs were \"indirectly attributed to the activity.\"\n\nThe 2009 report also focused on how farmers' markets affect other sectors of the Iowan economy. The two sectors of the economy most impacted by farmers' market activity were agriculture and mining and wholesale and retail trade. The direct impact on agriculture and mining was about $24,960,000, with another $1 million in \"business-related indirect impact\" and \"consumer-related induced impact.\" Construction, manufacturing, transportation, finance, professional services, and personal services were not directly impacted, but between $1 million and $4 million generated in each sector reflected indirect and induced impacts of farmers' market activity. The table entitled \"Output impact of Iowa farmers' market activities\" shows these impacts.\n\nThe City of Portland's Office of Sustainable Development (OSD) commissioned a report in 2008 to study the impact of Portland's 14 farmers' markets on \"the regional Portland metro-area economy.\" The 14 farmers' markets studied in Portland had sales of approximately $11.2 million in the aggregate in 2007.\n\nThe study found that the direct impact of \"spending at farmers' markets\" stays within the region, while sales at the traditional grocery store \"leak outside the region.\" Therefore, the estimated direct impact of $11.2 million in farmers' market spending is equivalent to only $3.4 million \"in economic impact in a traditional grocery market\" due to importation of goods and household marginal decision-making in the retail sector.\n\nUsing the IMPLAN Input-Output Model, the study also measured the economic impact of product sales, prepared food sales, and management fees, or \"the payment of market management fees by vendors,\" on output, employment, and employee compensation in the Portland economy.\n\nThe study concluded that the 14 markets in Portland produced approximately $17 million in output, 150 jobs, and $3.2 million in employee compensation. The table entitled \"Total est. economic impact of 14 Portland-area farmers' markets, 2007\" shows how product sales, prepared food sales, and management fees impacted the Portland economy in 2007.\n\nUsing the SEED methodology, marketumbrella.org analyzed the economic impact of Crescent City Farmers' Market-Mid City, Crescent City Farmers' Market-CBD, and Crescent City Farmers' Market-Upt, in New Orleans, Louisiana on vendors, the \"host neighborhood,\" and the \"surrounding region.\"\n\nThe combined economic impact included vendor revenue, the revenue of nearby businesses, and sales tax revenue. The combined impact of the Crescent City Farmers' markets was $6,655,614.52 on vendor revenue, $5,008,742.34 on neighborhood business revenue, and $236,014.04 on municipal and state tax revenue.\n\nCrescent City Farmers Mkt-Mid City was reported to have a market impact of $984,555.13 on vendors and a neighboring business impact of $936,714.04 for a combined annual economic impact of $1,921,269.17. During the 51 days of operation throughout the year, the market generated municipal and state sales tax revenue of $44,138.36.\n\nIn its 51 days of operation, Crescent City Farmers Mkt-CBD generated $3,150,982.42 for vendors and $2,657,647.23 for neighboring businesses with a combined annual economic impact of $5,808,629.66. The revenue for municipal and state sales taxes was projected at $125,229.45 annually.\n\nLastly, Crescent City Farmers Mkt-Upt generated $2,520,076.97 for vendors and $1,414,381.06 for neighboring businesses, for a combined economic impact of $3,934,458.03. Municipal and State sales tax revenue was projected at $66,646.23.\n\nFarmers' markets directly impact vendors, businesses, and consumers. Farmers' markets influence these individuals through vendor revenue and sales, the income multiplier effect, local business incubation, employment, and consumer preferences. Many studies concentrate on the impact of farmers' markets on vendors, businesses, and consumers because farmers' markets are a local phenomenon whose effects are most observable at the community or individual level. This section differs from the previous section that highlighted some state and municipal studies because it provides a summary of the general impacts almost all state and municipal studies measure.\n\nFarmers' markets generate significant economic benefits to farmers' market vendors. A study shows that vendors who participated in nine markets throughout urban centers like Baltimore and Los Angeles collectively earn $52,000 to $40,594,000 per year from sales. Kamm's Corners Farmers Market, the median market studied, generated $1.8 million per year for vendors. Vendors value the net profits derived from the market, as almost half of the vendors surveyed in a study on Iowa's farmers' markets indicated that they would incur a significant loss if farmers' markets were to close down.\n\nVendors generally make more money by selling their products to the local community than by selling them to a wholesaler for use in the conventional food system. One study found that vendors and food producers were able to retain almost, if not all, of the revenue from the sale of their product on the local market. Vendors may receive up to \"seven times greater net revenue on a per unit basis\" in the local market than in the conventional market. It is also easier for vendors at farmers' markets to gauge consumer demand and price their products accordingly because they are able to interact directly with the population that they serve.\n\nVendors who participate in farmers' markets usually have another, often primary form of employment. So, selling their goods at the market is usually a residual use of their time. One study suggests that participating in farmers' markets may reduce the incentives of small farm growers to expand their farms and become more efficient because they must dedicate significant time to marketing activities. This suggests that vendor profits may not increase by as much as they could due to the time dedicated to marketing.\n\nBeyond the direct effects on vendors, farmers' markets also produce indirect effects. Farmers use the sales that they garner from the market to purchase fertilizer, seeds, and other inputs of production from businesses. This type of transaction has income multiplier effects, meaning that farmers' markets not only impact vendor income, but also impact the incomes of businesses linked to the production of commodities sold at the markets. A study focusing on Iowa farmers' markets showed that $12.2 million worth of business income was due to farmers' market-related transactions among vendors. Another study found that almost all of the \"wage and business proprietor income in local food supply chains is retained locally.\"\n\nFarmers' markets can support local businesses. A 2002 study found that sixty percent of consumers at farmers' markets also visited stores surrounding the market on the same day. Sixty percent of those consumers also indicated they only visited stores surrounding the farmers' market on days that they visited the market. Another study supports these findings and showed that an \"overwhelming majority\" of customers at farmers' markets also visited at least one nearby store. Additionally, the farmers' market itself provides a space for local and small farm growers to innovate and respond directly to consumer demand. Sweet Briar Farms in Eugene, Oregon began selling pork cuts at the Eugene and Portland farmers' markets in 2000. In the last ten years, the company has expanded to producing bacon and sausage as well as spices, sauces, and rubs. The company now has 25 workers and is one of the biggest pork providers in the Willamette Valley of Oregon. The company credits much of its success to the ability to sell new, experimental products at farmers' markets.\n\nA study of Iowa's farmers' markets showed that 140 jobs were created in a single year that could be attributed to farmers' market activity. Other studies also found that farmers' market activity directly and indirectly supports the growth of local jobs. One study showed that 5.4 jobs were created per farmers' market. This figure was used to suggest that public funding of 100 to 500 'otherwise-unsuccessful' farmers' markets per year could generate 13,500 jobs in five years.\n\nFarmers' markets address local consumer demand and preferences. The number of farmers' markets in the United States has grown from 340 in 1970 to 7,000 in 2011. There are also over 4,000 CSAs in the United States, which shows that consumers want to buy local food. Consumers that go to farmers' markets generally seek to support local farms and businesses and also seek to buy food that is healthy and sustainably produced. Recent national data show that eighty-two percent of consumers go to farmers' markets to get fresh produce, seventy-five percent go to support the local economy, and fifty-eight percent patron these markets because they want to know the source of the products they buy. Farmers' markets serve a demand not satisfied by the mass-produced and consolidated methods of production of the United States food system. Consumers also benefit from increased information, because they can learn about where the food they buy comes from by speaking with farmers at the market.\n\nAlthough the number of farmers' markets has grown substantially in the United States over the last decade, there are some factors that may hinder the overall impact of farmers' markets or create negative effects. Overcoming some of these obstacles will ensure the profitability of farmers' markets while producing positive spillover effects on neighboring markets.\n\nA negative effect on sales of Iowa farmers' markets was linked to the creation of new farmers' markets, specifically with regard to location and timing. Agriculture Statistician Theresa Varner and Professor of Economics Daniel Otto stated that competition was a factor affecting sales of farmers' markets in Iowa. They identified a conflict based on the days that markets operated and suggested that already existing farmers' markets should be improved and expanded.\n\nThe Appalachian Sustainable Agriculture Project (ASAP) analyzed the various barriers low-income individuals face with regard to farmers' markets. The study collected data that highlighted convenience, product pricing, language and cultural barriers, federal nutrition benefits, and lack of information and awareness as some of the obstacles to participating in farmers' markets. \n\nResearch entitled \"Evaluating the Economic Impact of Farmers' Markets Using an Opportunity Cost Framework\" was conducted on farmers' markets in West Virginia. Researchers intended to illustrate that opportunity cost reduced net positive impact, however, not disproportionately. They distributed the impact of opportunity cost in the West Virginian economy by major industries. These industries were: agriculture-resources, Mining-utilities-construction, manufacturing, trade-transportation, financial activities, professional-technical services, educational-health-social services, entertainment-travel-other services, and government. The sectors that presented a more significant impact were agriculture-resources and trade-transportation. Education-health-social services were affected by secondary impacts. Total job impacts were felt in the trade-transportation and agriculture-resources sectors. So while the data affirms that farmers' markets have a positive effect on the local economy of West Virginia the opportunity costs reduces its positive impact significantly.\n\nWhile farmers' markets are growing rapidly there is data indicating that a significant number of markets fail in Oregon. The study conducted by Oregon State University analyzed data collected from the Oregon Farmers' Market Association (OFMA) and the Oregon Department of Agriculture (ODA) to identify the various factors that were prevalent in the markets that closed in that state. They identified that markets that failed had a short life span. Their research stated that 50 percent of these failed markets closed after their first season. They noted that older markets could also be prone to failure. Data presented a high manager turnover rate of an average of 30 percent between 1999 and 2005. While analyzing the data, researchers were presented with a set of circumstances dependent on each other. A farmers' market needs resources such as volunteers, and these resources are affected by market administrative revenue. In small markets, there are fewer vendors, which attracts a smaller percentage of customers. Administrative revenue could aid in acquiring more resources, yet small markets cannot supply a significant number of resources. Larger markets are typically better off. Researchers then concluded that market size, administrative revenue, manager turnover, and resource needs were key factors in projecting market failure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13398581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13398581", "title": "Indic computing", "text": "Indic computing\n\nIndic Computing means \"computing in Indic\" i.e. Indian Scripts and Languages. It involves developing software in Indic Scripts/languages, Input methods, Localization of computer applications, web development, Database Management, Spell checkers, Speech to Text and Text to Speech applications and OCR in Indian languages.\n\nMost of the widely used Indic scripts are encoded in Unicode for working on Computers and Internet. As of version 10.0, Bengali, Devanagari, Gujarati, Gurmukhi, Kannada, Limbu, Malayalam, Masaram Gondi, Newari, Ol Chiki, Oriya, Sinhala, Tamil and Telugu scripts are encoded and supported. Historically used writing systems like Arwi, Ahom alphabet, Grantha, Khudabadi, Mahajani, Modi alphabet, Siddham script, Syloti Nagri, Tirhuta are also included. Some more Indic scripts are in development and will be included in unicode, for instance Tulu Script.\n\nA lot of Indic Computing projects are going on. They involve some government sector companies, some volunteer groups and individual people.\n\nIndian Union Government made it mandatory for Mobile phone companies whose handsets manufactured, stored, sold and distributed in India to have support for reading of text in all 22 languages. This move has seen rise in use of Indian languages by millions of users.\n\nThe Department of Electronics and Information Technology, India initiated the TDIL (Technology Development for Indian Languages) with the objective of developing Information Processing Tools and Techniques to facilitate human-machine interaction without language barrier; creating and accessing multilingual knowledge resources; and integrating them to develop innovative user products and services.\n\nIn 2005, it started distributing language software tools developed by Government/Academic/Private companies in the form of CD for non commercial use.\n\nSome of the outcome of TDIL program deployed on Indian Language Technology Proliferation & Deployment Centre. This Centre disseminate all the linguistic resources, tools & applications which have been developed under TDIL funding.\n\nC-DAC is an India based government software company which is involved in developing language related software. It is best known for developing InScript Keyboard, the standard keyboard for Indian languages. It has also developed lot of Indic language solutions including Word Processors, typing tools, text to speech software, OCR in Indian languages etc.\n\nThe work developed out of CDAC, Bangalore (earlier known as NCST, Bangalore) became BharateeyaOO. OpenOffice 2.1 had support for over 10 Indian languages.\n\nBOSS is developed by National Resource Centre for free/open source software, an initiative of DIT. Its activities are coordinated by C-DAC Chennai and Anna University KBC Research Center. Support Centres are established at several cities in India to provide support to Users.\n\nIndlinux organisation helped organise the individual volunteers working on different indic language versions of Linux and its applications.\n\nSarovar.org is India's first portal to host projects under Free/Open source licenses. It is located in Trivandrum, India and hosted at Asianet data center. Sarovar.org is customised, installed and maintained by Linuxense as part of their community services and sponsored by River Valley Technologies. Sarovar.org is built on Debian Etch and GForge and runs off METTLE.\n\nPinaak is a non-government charitable society devoted to Indic language computing. It works for software localization, developing language software, localizing open source software, enriching online encyclopedias etc. In addition to this Pinaak works for educating people about computing, ethical use of Internet and use of Indian languages on Internet.\n\nAnkur Group is working toward supporting Bengali language (Bengali) on Linux operating system including localized Bengali GUI, Live CD, English-to-Bengali translator, Bengali OCR and Bengali Dictionary etc. \n\nSMC is a free software group, working to bridge the language divide in Kerala in the technology front and is today the biggest language computing community in India.\n\nWith the advent of Unicode inputting Indic text on computer has become very easy. A number of methods exist for this purpose, but the main ones are:-\n\nInscript is the standard keyboard for Indian languages. Developed by C-DAC and standardized by Government of India. Nowadays it comes inbuilt in all major operating systems including Microsoft Windows (2000, XP, Vista, 7), Linux and Macintosh.\n\nThis is a typing method in which, for instance, the user types text in an Indian language using Roman characters and it is phonetically converted to equivalent text in Indian script in real time. This type of conversion is done by phonetic text editors, word processors and software plugins. Building up on the idea, one can use phonetic IME tools that allow Indic text to be input in any application.\n\nSome examples of phonetic transliterators are Xlit, Google Indic Transliteration, BarahaIME, Indic IME, Rupantar, SMC's Indic Keyboard and Microsoft Indic Language Input Tool. SMC's Indic Keyboard has support for as many as 23 languages whereas Google Indic Keyboard only supports 11 Indian languages.\n\nThey can be broadly classified as:\n\nThis layout was developed when computers had not been invented or deployed with Indic languages, and typewriters were the only means to type text in Indic scripts. Since typewriters were mechanical and could not include a script processor engine, each character had to be placed on the keyboard separately, which resulted in a very complex and difficult to learn keyboard layout.\n\nWith the advent of Unicode, the Remington layout was added to various typing tools for sake of backward compatibility, so that old typists did not have to learn a new keyboard layout. Nowadays this layout is only used by old typists who are used to this layout due to several years of usage. One tool to include Remington layout is Indic IME. A font that is based on the Remington keyboard layout is Kruti Dev. Another online tool that very closely supports the old Remington keyboard layout using Kruti Dev is the Remington Typing tool.\n\nIBus Sharada Braille, which supports seven Indian languages was developed by SMC.\n\nMobile/Hand/cell phone basic models have 12 keys like the plain old telephone keypad. Each key is mapped to 3 or 4 English letters to facilitate data entry in English. For inputting Indian languages with this kind of keypad, there are two ways to do so. First is the Multi-tap Method and second uses visual help from the screen like Panini Keypad. The primary usage is SMS. 140 characters size used for English/Roman languages can be used to accommodate only about 70 language characters when Unicode Proprietary compression is used some times to increase the size of single message for Complex script languages like Hindi. A research study of the available methods and recommendations of proposed standard was released by Broadband Wireless Consortium of India (BWCI).\n\nEnglish is used to type in Indian languages.\nQuillPad\nIndiSMS\n\nIn native methods, the letters of the language are displayed on the screen corresponding to the numeral keys based on the probabilities of those letters for that language. Additional letters can be accessed by using a special key. When a word is partially typed, options are presented from which the user can make a selection.\n\nMost smart phones have about 35 keys catering primarily to English language. Numerals and some symbols are accessed with a special key called Alt. Indic input methods are yet to evolve for these types of phones, as support of Unicode for rendering is not widely available.\n\nInscript is being adopted for smart phone usage. For Android phones which can render Indic languages, Swalekh Multilingual Keypad Multiling Keyboard app are available. Gboard offers support for several Indian languages.\n\nLocalization means translating software, operating systems, websites etc. various applications in Indian language. Various volunteers groups are working in this direction.\nA notable example is the Tamil version of Mandrake linux. Tamil speakers in Toronto (Canada) released Mandrake, a GNU/Linux software, in coming out with a Tamil version. It can be noted that all the features can be accessed in Tamil. By this, the prerequisite of English knowledge for using computers has been eliminated, for those who know Tamil.\n\nIndLinux is a volunteer group aiming to translate the Linux operating system into Indian languages. By the efforts of this group, Linux has been localized almost completely in Hindi and other Indian languages.\n\nNipun is an online translation system aimed to translate various application in Hindi. It is part of \"Akshargram Network\".\n\nGoDaddy has localised its website in Hindi, Marathi and Tamil and also noted that 40% of the call volume for IVR is in Indian Languages.\n\nIndic blogging refers to blogging in Indic languages. Various efforts have been done to promote blogging in Indian languages.\n\nSome Social networks are started in Indian languages.\n\n\nGoogle offers improved translation feature for Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Gujarati, Punjabi, Malayalam and Kannada, with offline support as well. Microsoft also offers translation for some of these languages.\n\nTransliteration tools allows users to read a text in different script. As of now, Aksharamukha is the tool which allows most Indian scripts. Google also offers Indic Transliteration. Text from any of these scripts can be converted to any other scripts and vice versa. Whereas Google and Microsoft allow transliteration from Latin letters to Indic scripts.\n\nCarnegie Mellon University, in collaboration with the Hear2Read project, has developed a text-to-speech (TTS) software that helps the visually impaired listen to text in native Indian languages. Currently, Tamil is being offered and , releases in Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Kannada, Punjabi and Telugu are expected over the remainder of 2016.\n\n\nMicrosoft Inc. supports Hindi, Bengali and Tamil email addresses. It is expected to include other Indian languages in future.\n\nAI based Virtual Assistants Google Assistant provides support to various Indian languages.\n\nAccording to GoDaddy, Hindi, Marathi and Tamil languages accounted for 61% of India's internet traffic. It is to be noted that less than 1% of online content is in Indian languages. The newly created top apps have support for multiple Indian languages and/or promote Indian language content. 61% of the Indian users of WhatsApp primarily use their native languages to communicate with it. A recent study revealed that adoption of Internet is highest among local languages such as Tamil, Hindi, Kannada, Bengali, Marathi, Telugu, Gujarati and Malayalam. It estimates that Marathi, Bengali, Tamil, and Telugu will form 30% of the total local-language user base in the country. Currently, Tamil at 42% has the highest Internet adoption levels, followed by Hindi at 39% and Kannada at 37%. Intex also reported that 87 % of its regional language usage came from Hindi, Bengali,Tamil, Gujarati and Marathi speakers. Lava mobiles reported that Tamil and Malayalam are the most popular on their phones, more than even Hindi.\n\n"}
{"id": "404829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404829", "title": "Islam in the United States", "text": "Islam in the United States\n\nIslam is the third largest religion in the United States after Christianity and Judaism. According to a 2017 study, it is followed by 1.1% of the population, compared with 70.6% who follow Christianity, 22.8% unaffiliated, 1.9% Judaism, 0.7% Buddhism, and 0.7% Hinduism. A 2017 study estimated that 3.45 million Muslims were living in the United States, about 1.1% of the total U.S. population.\n\nAmerican Muslims come from various backgrounds and, according to a 2009 Gallup poll, are one of the most racially diverse religious groups in the United States. According to a 2017 study done by the Institute for Social Policy, “American Muslims are the only faith community surveyed with no majority race, with 25% black, 24% white, 18% Asian, 18% Arab, 7% mixed race, and 5% Hispanic”. Like other American faith groups surveyed, “roughly nine in ten Muslims identify as “straight” with the remainder identifying as either bisexual, “something else,” or refusing to answer.”\n\nIn addition, 50% of Muslims are native born while the other 50% are foreign born, and 86% are citizens. Native-born American Muslims are mainly African Americans who make up about a quarter of the total Muslim population. Many of these have converted to Islam during the last seventy years. Conversion to Islam in large cities has also contributed to its growth over the years as well as its influence on black culture and hip-hop music.\n\nWhile an estimated 10 to 20 percent of the slaves brought to colonial America from Africa arrived as Muslims, Islam was stringently suppressed on plantations. Prior to the late 19th century, most documented non-enslaved Muslims in North America were merchants, travelers, and sailors.\n\nFrom the 1880s to 1914, several thousand Muslims immigrated to the United States from the former territories of the Ottoman Empire and the former Mughal Empire. The Muslim population of the U.S. increased dramatically in the 20th century, with much of the growth driven by a comparatively high birth rate and immigrant communities of mainly Arab and South Asian descent. About 72% of American Muslims are immigrants or \"second generation\".\n\nIn 2005, more people from Muslim-majority countries became legal permanent United States residents—nearly 96,000—than there had been in any other year in the previous two decades. In 2009, more than 115,000 Muslims became legal residents of the United States.\n\nOne of the earliest accounts of Islam's possible presence in North America dates to 1528, when a Moroccan slave, called Estevanico, was shipwrecked near present-day Galveston, Texas. He and four survivors subsequently traveled through much of the American southwest and the Mexican interior before reaching Mexico City.\n\n\"Muslims' presence [in the United States] is affirmed in documents dated more than a century before religious liberty became the law of the land, as in a Virginia statute of 1682 which referred to 'negroes, moores, molatoes, and others, born of and in heathenish, idollatrous, pagan, and Mahometan parentage and country' who 'heretofore and hereafter may be purchased, procured, or otherwise obteigned, as slaves.\n\nRecords from the American Revolutionary War indicate that at least a few likely Muslims fought on the American side. Among the recorded names of American soldiers are \"Yusuf ben Ali\" (a member of the Turks of South Carolina community), \"Bampett Muhamed\" and possibly Peter Salem.\n\nThe first country to recognize the United States as an independent nation was the Sultanate of Morocco, under its ruler Mohammed ben Abdallah, in the year 1777. He maintained several correspondences with President George Washington. On December 9, 1805, President Thomas Jefferson hosted an Iftar dinner at the White House for his guest Sidi Soliman Mellimelli, an envoy from Tunis.\n\nBilali \"Ben Ali\" Muhammad was a Fula Muslim from Timbo, Futa-Jallon, in present-day Guinea-Conakry, who arrived at Sapelo Island during 1803. While enslaved, he became the religious leader and Imam for a slave community numbering approximately eighty Muslim men residing on his plantation. During the War of 1812, Muhammad and the eighty Muslim men under his leadership protected their master's Sapelo Island property from a British attack. He is known to have fasted during the month of Ramadan, worn a fez and kaftan, and observed the Muslim feasts, in addition to consistently performing the five obligatory prayers. In 1829, Bilali authored a thirteen-page Arabic \"Risala\" on Islamic beliefs and the rules for ablution, morning prayer, and the calls to prayer. Known as the Bilali Document, it is currently housed at the University of Georgia in Athens.\n\nBetween 1785 and 1815, over a hundred American sailors were held for ransom in Algiers. Several wrote captivity narratives of their experiences that gave most Americans their first view of the Arab World and Muslim ways, and newspapers often commented on them. The views were generally negative. Royall Tyler wrote \"The Algerine Captive\" (1797), an early American novel depicting the life of an American doctor employed in the slave trade who himself is captured and enslaved by Barbary pirates. Finally Presidents Jefferson and Madison sent the American navy to confront the pirates, and ended the threat in 1815 during the First Barbary War. During negotiation of the treaty of peace which ended hostilities, American envoys made clear that the United States had no animosity towards any Muslim country.\n\nOn the morning of April 4, 1865, near the end of the American Civil War, Union troops commanded by Col. Thomas M. Johnston set ablaze the University of Alabama; a copy of the Quran known as \"The Koran: Commonly Called The Alcoran Of Mohammed\" was saved by one of the University's staff.\n\nTwo hundred and ninety-two Muslims are known to have fought during the Civil War, including Private Mohammad Khan, who was born in Persia, raised in Afghanistan, and emigrated to the United States. The highest-ranking Muslim officer in the Union Army was Captain Moses Osman. Nicholas Said, formerly enslaved to an Arab master, came to the United States in 1860 and found a teaching job in Detroit. In 1863, Said enlisted in the 55th Massachusetts Colored Regiment in the United States Army and rose to the rank of sergeant. He was later granted a transfer to a military hospital, where he gained some knowledge of medicine. His Army records state that he died in Brownsville, Tennessee, in 1882. Another Muslim soldier from the Civil War was Max Hassan, an African who worked for the military as a porter.\n\nA Muslim named Hajj Ali (commonly spelled as \"Hi Jolly\") was hired by the United States Cavalry in 1856 to tend camels in Arizona and California. He would later become a prospector in Arizona. Hajj Ali died in 1903.\n\nDuring the American Civil war, the \"scorched earth\" policy of the North destroyed churches, farms, schools, libraries, colleges, and a great deal of other property. The libraries at the University of Alabama managed to save one book from the debris of their library buildings. On the morning of April 4, 1865, when Federal troops reached the campus with an order to destroy the university, Andre Deloffre, a modern language professor and custodian of the library, appealed to the commanding officer to spare one of the finest libraries in the South. The officer, being sympathetic, sent a courier to Gen. Croxton at his headquarters in Tuscaloosa asking permission to save the Rotunda, but the general refused to allow this. The officer reportedly said, \"I will save one volume as a memento of this occasion.\" The volume selected was a rare copy of the Qur'an.\n\nAlexander Russell Webb is considered by historians to be the earliest prominent Anglo-American convert to Islam in 1888. In 1893, he was the sole representative of Islam at the first Parliament of the World's Religions. The Russian-born Muslim scholar and writer Achmed Abdullah (1881–1945) was another prominent early American Muslim.\n\nIn a notable 1891 case, the Supreme Court highlighted “the intense hostility of the people of Muslim faith to all other sects, and particularly to Christians. Scores of Muslim immigrants were turned away at U.S. ports in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Christian immigrants suspected of secretly being Muslims were also excluded.\n\nMany enslaved peoples brought to America from Africa were Muslims from the predominantly Muslim West African region Between 1701 and 1800, some 500,000 Africans arrived in what became the United States. Historians estimate that between 15 and 30 percent of all enslaved African men and less than 15 percent of the enslaved African women were Muslims. According to 21st century researchers Donna Meigs-Jaques and R. Kevin Jaques, \"[t]hese enslaved Muslims stood out from their compatriots because of their resistance, determination and education.\"\n\nIt is estimated that over 50% of the slaves imported to North America came from areas where Islam was followed by at least a minority population. Thus, no less than 200,000 came from regions influenced by Islam. Substantial numbers originated from Senegambia, a region with an established community of Muslim inhabitants extending to the 11th century.\n\nThrough a series of conflicts, primarily with the Fulani jihad states, about half of the Senegambian Mandinka were converted to Islam, while as many as a third were sold into slavery to the Americas through capture in conflict.\n\nMichael A. Gomez speculated that Muslim slaves may have accounted for \"thousands, if not tens of thousands\", but does not offer a precise estimate. He also suggests many non-Muslim slaves were acquainted with some tenets of Islam, due to Muslim trading and proselytizing activities.\nHistorical records indicate many enslaved Muslims conversed in the Arabic language. Some even composed literature (such as autobiographies) and commentaries on the Quran.\n\nSome newly arrived Muslim slaves assembled for communal salat (prayers). Some were provided a private praying area by their owner. The two best documented Muslim slaves were Ayuba Suleiman Diallo and Omar Ibn Said. Suleiman was brought to America in 1731 and returned to Africa in 1734. Like many Muslim slaves, he often encountered impediments when attempting to perform religious rituals and was eventually allotted a private location for prayer by his master.\n\nOmar Ibn Said (c. 1770–1864) is among the best documented examples of a practicing-Muslim slave. He lived on a 19th Century North Carolina plantation and wrote many Arabic texts while enslaved. Born in the kingdom of Futa Tooro (modern Senegal), he arrived in America in 1807, one month before the U.S. abolished importation of slaves. Some of his works include the Lords Prayer, the Bismillah, this is How You Pray, Quranic phases, the 23rd Psalm, and an autobiography. In 1857, he produced his last known writing on Surah 110 of the Quran. In 1819, Omar received an Arabic translation of the Christian Bible from his master, James Owen. Omar converted to Christianity in 1820, an episode widely used throughout the South to \"prove\" the benevolence of slavery. However, most scholars believe he continued to be a practicing Muslim, based on dedications to Muhammad written in his Bible.\n\nViews of Islam in America affected debates regarding freedom of religion during the drafting of the state constitution of Pennsylvania in 1776. Constitutionalists promoted religious toleration while Anticonstitutionalists called for reliance on Protestant values in the formation of the state's republican government. The former group won out, and inserted a clause for religious liberty in the new state constitution. American views of Islam were influenced by favorable Enlightenment writings from Europe, as well as Europeans who had long warned that Islam was a threat to Christianity and republicanism.\n\nIn 1776, John Adams published \"Thoughts on Government\", in which he mentions the Islamic prophet Muhammad as a \"sober inquirer after truth\" alongside Confucius, Zoroaster, Socrates, and other thinkers.\n\nIn 1785, George Washington stated a willingness to hire \"Mahometans\", as well as people of any nation or religion, to work on his private estate at Mount Vernon if they were \"good workmen\".\n\nIn 1790, the South Carolina legislative body granted special legal status to a community of Moroccans.\n\nIn 1797, President John Adams signed the Treaty of Tripoli, declaring the United States had no \"character of enmity against the laws, religion, or tranquillity, of Mussulmen\".\n\nIn his autobiography, published in 1791, Benjamin Franklin stated that he \"did not disapprove\" of a meeting place in Pennsylvania that was designed to accommodate preachers of all religions. Franklin wrote that \"even if the Mufti of Constantinople were to send a missionary to preach Mohammedanism to us, he would find a pulpit at his service\". Franklin also wrote an anti-slavery parody that claimed to be translation of the response of a government official at Algiers to a 17th-century petition to banish slavery there; the parody develops the theme that Europeans are specially suited for enslavement on cultural and religious grounds, and that there would be practical problems with abolishing slavery in North Africa; this satirizes similar arguments that were then made about the enslavement of Blacks in North America.\n\nThomas Jefferson defended religious freedom in America including those of Muslims. Jefferson explicitly mentioned Muslims when writing about the movement for religious freedom in Virginia. In his autobiography Jefferson wrote \"[When] the [Virginia] bill for establishing religious freedom ... was finally passed, ... a singular proposition proved that its protection of opinion was meant to be universal. Where the preamble declares that coercion is a departure from the plan of the holy author of our religion, an amendment was proposed, by inserting the word 'Jesus Christ', so that it should read 'a departure from the plan of Jesus Christ, the holy author of our religion'. The insertion was rejected by a great majority, in proof that they meant to comprehend within the mantle of its protection the Jew and the Gentile, the Christian and Mahometan, the Hindoo and infidel of every denomination.\" While President, Jefferson also participated in an iftar with the Ambassador of Tunisia in 1809.\n\nHowever, not all politicians were pleased with the religious neutrality of the Constitution, which prohibited any religious test. Anti-Federalists in the 1788 North Carolina ratifying convention opposed the new constitution; one reason was the fear that some day Catholics or Muslims might be elected president. William Lancaster said:.\n\nIn 1788, Americans held inaccurate and often contradicting views of the Muslim world, and used that in political arguments. For example, the anti-Federalists compared a strong central government to the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire and the American army to Turkish Janissaries, arguing against a strong central government. On the other hand, Alexander Hamilton argued that despotism in the Middle East was the result of the Sultan not having enough power to protect his people from oppressive local governors; thus he argued for a stronger central government.\n\nSmall-scale migration to the U.S. by Muslims began in 1840, with the arrival of Yemenis and Turks, and lasted until World War I. Most of the immigrants, from Arab areas of the Ottoman Empire, came with the purpose of making money and returning to their homeland. However, the economic hardships of 19th-century America prevented them from prospering, and as a result the immigrants settled in the United States permanently. These immigrants settled primarily in Dearborn, Michigan; Quincy, Massachusetts; and Ross, North Dakota. Ross, North Dakota is the site of the first documented mosque and Muslim Cemetery, but it was abandoned and later torn down in the mid-1970s. A new mosque was built in its place in 2005.\n\n\nConstruction of mosques sped up in the 1920s and 1930s, and by 1952, there were over 20 mosques. Although the first mosque was established in the U.S. in 1915, relatively few mosques were founded before the 1960s. Eighty-seven percent of mosques in the U.S. were founded within the last three decades according to the Faith Communities Today (FACT) survey. California has more mosques than any other state.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community is the oldest continuous Muslim community in the United States. Ahmadi Muslims were among the earliest Muslim missionaries in America, the first being Mufti Muhammad Sadiq, and between 1921 and 1925 alone they converted over 1000 people to Islam. Although at first their efforts were broadly concentrated over a large number of racial and ethnic groups, subsequent realization of the deep-seated racial tensions and discrimination made Ahmadi missionaries focus their attention on mainly African Americans and the Muslim immigrant community and became vocal proponents of the civil rights movement. Many Ahmadi Muslims fled countries like Pakistan due to persecution in recent times.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, a small number of African Americans established groups based on Islamic and Gnostic teachings. The first of such groups created was the Moorish Science Temple of America, founded by Timothy Drew (Drew Ali) in 1913. Drew taught that black people were of Moorish origin but their Muslim identity was taken away through slavery and racial segregation, advocating the return to Islam of their Moorish ancestry.\n\nThe Moorish Science Temple of America is an American organization founded in 1913 by Prophet Noble Drew Ali. He said they practiced the \"Old Time Religion\" of Islamism but he also drew inspiration from Mohammedanism, Buddhism, Christianity, Gnosticism, and Taoism. Its significant divergences from mainstream Islam and strong African-American ethnic character make its classification as an Islamic denomination a matter of debate among Muslims and scholars of religion.\n\nIts primary tenet was the belief that they are the ancient Moabites who inhabited the Northwestern and Southwestern shores of Africa. The organization also believes that their descendants after being conquered in Spain are slaves who were captured and held in slavery from 1779–1865 by their slaveholders.\n\nAdherents of the Moorish Science Temple of America believe that the so-called \"Negroid Asiatic\" was the first human inhabitant of the Western Hemisphere. In their religious texts members refer to themselves as \"Asiatics\", within the teachings of Noble Drew Ali, the members are taught man cannot be a Negro, Colored Folk, Black people, Ethiopians or African-Americans, because these names were given to slaves by slave holders in 1779 and lasted until 1865 during the time of slavery.\n\nThe Moorish Science Temple of America is legally and lawfully recognized as the first and oldest Islamic Organization in America, with its current leader R. Jones-Bey.\n\nThe Nation of Islam (NOI) was created in 1930 by Wallace Fard Muhammad. Fard drew inspiration for NOI doctrines from those of Timothy Drew's Moorish Science Temple of America. He provided three main principles which serve as the foundation of the NOI: \"Allah is God, the white man is the devil and the so-called Negroes are the Asiatic Black People, the cream of the planet earth\".\n\nIn 1934 Elijah Muhammad became the leader of the NOI, he deified Fard, saying that he was an incarnation of God, and taught that he was a prophet who had been taught directly by God in the form of Fard. Two of the most famous people to join the NOI were Malcolm X, who became the face of the NOI in the media, and Muhammad Ali, who, while initially rejected, was accepted into the group shortly after his first world heavyweight championship victory. Both Malcolm X and Ali later became Sunni Muslims.\n\nMalcolm X was one of the most influential leaders of the NOI and, in accordance with NOI doctrine, advocated the complete separation of blacks from whites. He left the NOI after being silenced for 90 days (due to a controversial comment on the John F. Kennedy assassination), and proceeded to form Muslim Mosque, Inc. and the Organization of Afro-American Unity before his pilgrimage to Mecca and conversion to Sunni Islam. He is viewed as the first person to start the movement among African Americans towards Sunni Islam.\n\nIt was estimated that there were at least 20,000 members in 2006. However, today the group has a wide influence in the African American community. The first Million Man March took place in Washington, D.C. in 1995 and was followed later by another one in 2000 which was smaller in size but more inclusive, welcoming individuals other than just African American men. The group sponsors cultural and academic education, economic independence, and personal and social responsibility.\n\nThe Nation of Islam has received a great deal of criticism for its anti-white, anti-Christian, and anti-semitic teachings, and is listed as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center.\n\nThe Five-Percent Nation, sometimes referred to as NGE or NOGE, the \"Nation of Gods and Earths\", or the \"Five Percenters\", is an American organization founded in 1964 in the Harlem section of the borough of Manhattan, New York City, by a former member of the Nation of Islam named Clarence 13X (born Clarence Edward Smith and later known as \"Allah the Father\"). Clarence 13X, a former student of Malcolm X, left the Nation of Islam after a theological dispute with the Nation's leaders over the nature and identity of God. Specifically, Clarence 13X denied that the Nation's biracial founder Wallace Fard Muhammad was Allah and instead taught that the black man was himself God personified.\n\nMembers of the group call themselves Allah's Five Percenters, which reflects the concept that ten percent of the people in the world know the truth of existence, and those elites and agents opt to keep eighty-five percent of the world in ignorance and under their controlling thumb; the remaining five percent are those who know the truth and are determined to enlighten the rest.\n\nThe United Nation of Islam (UNOI) is a group based in Kansas City, Kansas. It was founded circa 1978 by Royall Jenkins, who continues to be the leader of the group and styles himself \"Royall, Allah in Person\".\n\nAfter the death of Elijah Muhammad, he was succeeded by his son, Warith Deen Mohammed. Mohammed rejected many teachings of his father, such as the divinity of Fard Muhammad, and saw a white person as also a worshiper. As he took control of the organization, he quickly brought in new reforms. He renamed it the World Community of al-Islam in the West; later it became the American Society of Muslims. It was estimated that there were 200,000 followers of W. D. Mohammed at the time.\n\nW. D. Mohammed introduced teachings which were based on orthodox Sunni Islam. He removed the chairs in the organization's temples, and replaced the entire \"temple\" concept with the traditional Muslim house of worship, the mosque, also teaching how to pray the \"salat\", to observe the fasting of Ramadan, and to attend the pilgrimage to Mecca.\n\nA small number of Black Muslims however rejected these new reforms brought by Imam Mohammed. Louis Farrakhan, who broke away from the organization, re-established the Nation of Islam under the original Fardian doctrines, and remains its leader.\n\nAn estimated 786,000 Shia Muslims live in the United States. They originate from South Asia, Europe, Middle East, and East Africa. The \"heart of Shiism in the U.S.\" is placed in Dearborn, home to the Islamic Center of America. The North American Shia Ithna-Asheri Muslim Communities Organization (NASIMCO) is the largest umbrella group for North American Shias.\n\nSome Muslim Americans adhere to the doctrines of Sufism. The Islamic Supreme Council of America (ISCA) is a small body representing Sufi teachings, which, according to adherents, is the inner, mystical dimension of Islam. The ISCA's stated aims include providing practical solutions for American Muslims, based on the traditional Islamic legal rulings of an international advisory board, many of whom are recognized as the highest ranking Islamic scholars in the world. ISCA aims to integrate traditional scholarship in resolving contemporary issues affecting the maintenance of Islamic beliefs in a modern, secular society. It has been linked to neoconservative thought.\n\nThe largest Quranist movement in the United States is the United Submitters International. This movement was founded by Rashad Khalifa. His movement popularized the phrase: \"The Qur'an, the whole Qur'an, and nothing but the Qur'an\". Although he was initially well received by many, his subsequent claims of divine inspiration caused friction between him and others, and he was assassinated in 1990. Notable Americans influenced by Rashad Khalifa include his son, Sam Khalifa, a retired professional baseball player and Ahmad Rashād, a sportscaster and retired football player.\n\nNon-denominational Muslims make up roughly one in seven of all American Muslims, at 15%. Non-denominational Muslims, do not have any specific affiliation with a religious body and usually describe themselves as being \"just a Muslim\". Muslims who were born in the US are more likely to be non-denominational than immigrant Muslims. 24% or one in four US-born Muslims are non-denominational, versus 10% of immigrant Muslims.\n\nThere are some mosquegoers who adhere to sects and denominations that form very small minorities. Examples of such small branches include progressive Muslims, Mahdavi Muslims and Ibadi Muslims.\n\nThe U.S. Census Bureau does not collect data on religious identification. Various institutions and organizations have given widely varying estimates about how many Muslims live in the U.S. Tom W. Smith, author of \"Estimating the Muslim Population in the United States\", said that of twenty estimates he reviewed during a five-year period until 2001, none was \"based on a scientifically-sound or explicit methodology. All can probably be characterized as guesses or assertions. Nine came from Muslim organizations such as the Islamic Society of North America, the Muslim Student Association, the Council on American-Islamic Relations, the American Muslim Council, and the Harvard Islamic Society or unspecified 'Muslim sources'. None of these sources gave any basis for their figures.\" In 2005, according to \"The New York Times\", more people from Muslim countries became legal permanent United States residents—nearly 96,000—than in any year in the previous two decades.\n\nAccording to CAIR, no scientific count of Muslims in the U.S. has been done and the larger figures should be considered accurate. Some journalists have also alleged that the higher numbers have been inflated for political purposes.\n\nAccording to a Pew Forum estimate, in 2017 there were 3.45 million Muslims, constituting about 1.1% of the total U.S. population. A Pew Forum report on American religion found that Muslims accounted for 0.9% of American adults in 2014, up from 0.4% in 2007, due largely to immigration. Retention rates were high, at 77%, similar to Hindus (80%) and Jews (75%); most people who leave these religions become unaffiliated, although ex-Muslims were more likely to be Christians than ex-Hindus or ex-Jews were. Conversely, 23% of American Muslims were converts, including 8% from historically black Protestant traditions, 6% from being unaffiliated, 4% from Catholicism, and 3% from mainline or evangelical Protestantism. By race, in 2014, 38% were non-Hispanic white (including Arabs and Iranians, up from 32% in 2007), 28% were Asian (mostly Indians, Pakistanis, and Bangladeshis, up from 20% in 2007), 28% were black (down from 32%), 4% Hispanic (down from 7%), and 3% of mixed or other race (down from 7%). Since 2007, the black proportion had shrunk, while the white and Asian proportions had grown, mainly due to immigration as most black Muslims were native U.S. blacks.\n\nIn January 2018, the Pew Research Center projected that by 2040, Muslims will replace Jews as the second-largest religious group in the U.S. (after Christians). By 2050, the number of American Muslims was projected to be twice the size of the 2017 Muslim population. Pew cited high fertility rates among American Muslims and immigration of Muslims to the U.S. as the reasons for the growth. It said that religious conversion was not expected to be a significant factor, because the number of American converts to Islam is roughly the same as the number of people who leave the religion.\n\nAccording to a 2001 study written by Ihsan Bagby, an associate professor of Islamic studies at the University of Kentucky, of Americans who convert to Islam, 64% are African American, 27% are White, 6% are Hispanic of any race, and 3% are other. Around that time increasing numbers of American Hispanics converted to Islam. Many Hispanic converts in Houston said that they often had been mistaken as of being of Pakistani or Middle Eastern descent, due to their religion. Many Hispanic converts were former Christians.\n\nSince the arrival of South Asian and Arab communities during the 1990s there has been divisions with the African Americans due to the racial and cultural differences; however, since September 11, 2001, the two groups joined together when the immigrant communities looked towards the African Americans for advice on civil rights.\n\nAccording to a 2014 religious survey, 64% of Muslims believe religion is very important, compared to 58% of Catholics who believe so. The frequency of receiving answers to prayers among Muslims was, 31% at least once a week and 12% once or twice a month. Nearly a quarter of the Muslims are converts to Islam (23%), mainly native-born. Of the total who have converted, 59% are African American and 34% white. Previous religions of those converted was Protestantism (67%), Roman Catholicism (10%), and 15% no religion.\n\nMosques are usually explicitly Sunni or Shia although they are over 55 Ahmadiyya mosques as well. There are 2,106 mosques in the United States , and the nation's largest mosque, the Islamic Center of America, is in Dearborn, Michigan. It caters mainly to the Shia Muslim congregation; however, all Muslims may attend this mosque. It was rebuilt in 2005 to accommodate over 3,000 people for the increasing Muslim population in the region. Approximately half (50%) of the religious affiliations of Muslims is Sunni, 16% Shia, 22% non-affiliated and 16% other/non-response. Muslims of Arab descent are mostly Sunni (56%) with minorities who are Shia (19%). Muslims of South Asian descent including Bangladeshis (90%), Indians (82%) and Pakistanis (72%) are mainly Sunni, other groups such as Iranians are mainly Shia (91%). Of African American Muslims, 48% are Sunni, 34% are unaffiliated (mostly part of the \"Community of W.Deen Mohammed\"), 16% other (mostly Nation of Islam and Ahmadiyya) and 2% Shia.\n\nIn many areas, a mosque may be dominated by whatever group of immigrants is the largest. Sometimes the Friday sermons, or khutbas, are given in languages like Urdu, Bengali or Arabic along with English. Areas with large Muslim populations may support a number of mosques serving different immigrant groups or varieties of belief within Sunni or Shia traditions. At present, many mosques are served by imams who immigrate from overseas, as only these imams have certificates from Muslim seminaries.\n\nData from the General Social Survey in the United States show that 32 percent of those raised Muslim no longer embrace Islam in adulthood, and 18 percent hold no religious identification.\n\nThe household income levels of American Muslims are about as evenly distributed as the general American population.\n\nWhen it comes to education, the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding reported in 2017 that across the board, American Muslims, Protestants, and Catholics have similar education levels. It has also been found that Muslim women (73%) are more likely than Muslim men (57%) to go on to pursue higher education beyond high school, and they are also more likely to report being in the middle class.\n\nAmong South Asians in the country, the large Pakistani American community stands out as particularly well educated and prosperous, with education and income levels exceeding those of U.S.-born whites. Many are professionals, especially in medicine (they account for 2.7-5% of America’s physicians), scientists, engineers, and financial analysts, and there are also a large number of entrepreneurs. There are more than 15,000 medical doctors practicing medicine in the USA who are of Pakistani origin alone and the number of Pakistani American millionaires was reported to be in the thousands. Shahid Khan a Pakistani-born American multi billionaire businessmen owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars of the National Football League (NFL) making him the first and only ethnic minority member to own one, he also owns English Premier League team Fulham F.C., and automobile parts manufacturer Flex-N-Gate in Urbana, Illinois.\n\n45 percent of immigrant Muslims report annual household income levels of $50,000 or higher. This compares to the national average of 44 percent. Immigrant Muslims are well represented among higher-income earners, with 19 percent having annual household incomes of $100,000 or higher (compared to 16 percent for the Muslim population as a whole and 17 percent for the U.S. average). This is likely due to the strong concentration of Muslims in professional, managerial, and technical fields, especially in information technology, education, medicine, law, and the corporate world.\n\nIn addition to immigration, the state, federal and local prisons of the United States may be a contributor to the growth of Islam in the country. According to J. Michael Waller, Muslim inmates constitute 15–20% of the prison population, or roughly 350,000 inmates in 2003. Waller states that these inmates mostly come into prison as non-Muslims. He also says that 80% of the prisoners who \"find faith\" while in prison convert to Islam. These converted inmates are mostly African American, with a small but growing Hispanic minority. Waller also asserts that many converts are radicalized by outside Islamist groups linked to terrorism, but other experts suggest that when radicalization does occur it has little to no connection with these outside interests.\n\nThere were calculated to be 2.595 million Muslim adherents across the United States in 2010.\nIslamic populations are 0.6% of the US population per Fareed Zakaria quoting Pew Research Center, 2010.\n\nNew York City had the largest number of Muslims with 69,985. In 2000, Dearborn, Michigan, ranked second with 29,181, and Los Angeles ranked third with 25,673; although Paterson, New Jersey, in the New York City Metropolitan Area, was estimated to have become home to 25,000 to 30,000 Muslims as of 2011. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was estimated to have 30,000 to 50,000 Muslims as of 2012. Paterson, New Jersey, has been nicknamed \"Little Ramallah\" and contains a neighborhood with the same name, with an Arab American population estimated as high as 20,000 in 2015.\n\nThe number of mosques in the United States in 2011 was 2,106. The six states with the greatest number of mosques were: New York 257, California 246, Texas 166, Florida 118, Illinois 109, New Jersey 109.\n\nMuslims in the United States have increasingly made their own culture; there are various Muslim comedy groups, rap groups, Scout troops and magazines, and Muslims have been vocal in other forms of media as well.\n\nWithin the Muslim community in the United States there exist a number of different traditions. As in the rest of the world, the Sunni Muslims are in the majority. Shia Muslims, especially those in the Iranian immigrant community, are also active in community affairs. All four major schools of Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh) are found among the Sunni community.\n\nSome Muslims in the U.S. are also adherents of certain global movements within Islam such as the Salafi, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Gülen movement, and the Tablighi Jamaat.\n\nAs of December 2013 increasing numbers of Muslim Americans are celebrating Christmas; Jesus is a holy prophet in Islam.\n\nIn the 2000 Presidential election, nearly 80 percent of Muslim Americans supported Republican candidate George W. Bush over Democratic candidate Al Gore. However, due to the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq which took place under the Bush Administration, as well as what some call an increased anti-Muslim rhetoric from the Republican Party after the September 11 attacks, support for the Republican Party among American Muslims has declined sharply.\n\nBy 2004, Bush's Muslim support had been reduced by at least half, who would vote for Democratic candidate John Kerry or a third party candidate.\n\nBy 2008, Democratic candidate Barack Obama got 67% to 90% of the Muslim vote depending on region. Some of his opponents question Obama's religious faith; see Barack Obama religion conspiracy theories.\n\nIn a 2017 Survey done by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, only 15% of American Muslims wanted Donald Trump to win the 2016 presidential election, compared to 54% wanting Hillary Clinton to win.\n\nAccording to a 2018 poll from the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, American Muslims were as satisfied with the American trajectory as the general public, reporting at around 27%. Regarding the 45th president of the United States, Donald Trump, Muslims are the least likely to approve of him across all faith groups including non affiliated Americans. This compares to, \"17% of non-affiliated Americans, 31% of Jews, 36% of Catholics, 41% of Protestants, and 72% of white Evangelicals\".\n\nAmerican Muslim Political Engagement is increasing, as 75% of American Muslims surveyed by ISPU reported being registered to vote, an increase of 15% from 2016 data.\n\nAccording to a 2004 telephone survey of a sample of 1,846 Muslims conducted by the polling organization Zogby, the respondents were more educated and affluent than the national average, with 59% of them holding at least an undergraduate college degree. Citing the Zogby survey, a 2005 Wall Street Journal editorial by Bret Stephens and Joseph Rago expressed the tendency of American Muslims to report employment in professional fields, with one in three having an income over $75,000 a year. The editorial also characterized American Muslims as \"role models both as Americans and as Muslims\".\n\nUnlike many Muslims in Europe, American Muslims overall do not tend to feel marginalized or isolated from political participation and have often adopted a politically proactive stance. Several organizations were formed by the American Muslim community to serve as \"critical consultants\" on U.S. policy regarding Iraq and Afghanistan. Other groups have worked with law enforcement agencies to point out Muslims within the United States that they suspect of fostering \"intolerant attitudes\". Still others have worked to invite interfaith dialogue and improved relations between Muslim and non-Muslim Americans.\n\nGrowing Muslim populations have caused public agencies to adapt to their religious practices. Airports such as the Indianapolis International Airport, Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, Kansas City International Airport have installed foot-baths to allow Muslims, particularly taxicab drivers who service the airports, to perform their religious ablutions in a safe and sanitary manner. and Denver International Airport included a mosque as part of its Interfaith Chapel when opened in 1996 although such developments have not been without criticism.\n\nAs of May 30, 2005, over 15,000 Muslims were serving in the United States Armed Forces.\n\nA Pew report released in 2009 noted that nearly six out of ten American adults see Muslims as being subject to discrimination, more than Mormons, atheists, or Jews. While Muslims constitute less than one percent of the American population, they accounted for approximately one quarter of the religious discrimination claims filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission during 2009. According to FBI statistics, hate crimes against Muslims are rare, at 6.0 per 100,000, compared to blacks at 6.7, homosexuals and bisexuals at 11.5, and Jews at 14.8.\n\nOn December 14, 1992, the Chief of Chaplains of the United States Army requested that an insignia be created for future Muslim chaplains, and the design (a crescent) was completed January 8, 1993.\n\nDespite the work that Muslim Americans have done to normalize their faith practices in America and establish themselves within the society, discrimination and islamophobia continue to serve as obstacle to true integration. According to a recent 2018 poll by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, \"A higher proportion of Muslims (61%) than any other faith group (or the non-affiliated groups) report experiencing some frequency of religious discrimination in the past year (compared to 48% of Jews, 29% of white Evangelicals, and less than 25% of all other groups).\" Additionally, Muslim American women, Arabs, and people between the ages of 18-29 are the most likely to say they experienced religious discrimination.\n\nOne of the largest Islamic organizations is the Islamic Society of North America (ISNA) which says that 27% of mosques in U.S. are associated with it. ISNA is an association of immigrant Muslim organizations and individuals that provides a common platform for presenting Islam. It is composed mostly of immigrants. Its membership may have recently exceeded ASM, as many independent mosques throughout the United States are choosing to affiliate with it. ISNA's annual convention is the largest gathering of Muslims in the United States.\n\nThe second largest is the community under the leadership of W.Deen Mohammed or the American Society of Muslims with 19% of mosques, mostly African-Americans having an affiliation with it. It was the successor organization to the Nation of Islam, once better-known as the Black Muslims. The association recognizes the leadership of Warith Deen Mohammed. This group evolved from the Black separatist Nation of Islam (1930–1975). The majority of its members are African Americans. This has been a 23-year process of religious reorientation and organizational decentralization, in the course of which the group was known by other names, such as the American Muslim Mission, W.Deen Mohammed guided its members to the practice of mainstream Islam such as salat or fasting, and teaching the basic creed of Islam the \"shahadah\".\n\nThe third largest group is the Islamic Circle of North America (ICNA). ICNA describes itself as a non-ethnic, open to all, independent, North America-wide, grass-roots organization. It is composed mostly of immigrants and the children of immigrants. It is growing as various independent mosques throughout the United States join and also may be larger than ASM at the present moment. Its youth division is Young Muslims. Why Islam? is a community outreach project of ICNA; it seeks to provide accurate information about Islam while debunking popular stereotypes and common misconceptions through various services and outreach activities.\n\nThe Islamic Supreme Council of America (ISCA) is a small organization representing Sufi teachings, which, according to adherents, is the inner, mystical dimension of Islam. The ISCA's stated aims include providing practical solutions for American Muslims, based on the traditional Islamic legal rulings of an international advisory board, many of whom are recognized as the highest ranking Islamic scholars in the world. ISCA strives to integrate traditional scholarship in resolving contemporary issues affecting the maintenance of Islamic beliefs in a modern, secular society. It has been linked to neoconservative thought.\n\nThe Islamic Assembly of North America (IANA) is a leading Muslim organization in the United States. According to its website, among the goals of IANA is to \"unify and coordinate the efforts of the different dawah oriented organizations in North America and guide or direct the Muslims of this land to adhere to the proper Islamic methodology.\" In order to achieve its goals, IANA uses a number of means and methods including conventions, general meetings, dawah-oriented institutions and academies, etc. IANA folded in the aftermath of the attack of September 11, 2001 and they have reorganized under various banners such as Texas Dawah and the Almaghrib Institute.\n\nThe Muslim Students' Association (MSA) is a group dedicated, by its own description, to Islamic societies on college campuses in Canada and the United States for the good of Muslim students. The MSA is involved in providing Muslims on various campuses the opportunity to practice their religion and to ease and facilitate such activities. MSA is also involved in social activities, such as fund raisers for the homeless during Ramadan. The founders of MSA would later establish the Islamic Society of North America and Islamic Circle of North America.\n\nThe Islamic Information Center (IIC) (IIC) is a \"grass-roots\" organization that has been formed for the purpose of informing the public, mainly through the media, about the real image of Islam and Muslims. The IIC is run by chairman (Hojatul-Islam) Imam Syed Rafiq Naqvi, various committees, and supported by volunteers.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community was established in the U.S. in 1921, before the existence of Nation of Islam, according to its members. This sect, however, is considered heretical by mainstream Muslims and not considered a part of the Ummah, or worldwide community of Muslims.\n\nMuslim Congress is another National Muslim Organization. It is primarily a Social Welfare organization and runs many social projects, including Food Distribution to the homeless in their \"No More Hunger\" project and also provides Scholarship. It is under the leadership of Islamic Scholars.\n\nMuslim political organizations lobby on behalf of various Muslim political interests. Organizations such as the American Muslim Council are actively engaged in upholding human and civil rights for all Americans.\n\n\nCharitable donations within the Muslim American community are impacted by domestic political and social climates. ISPU found in 2017 that, “23% of Muslim Americans increased their giving to organizations associated with their faith community and 18% joined, donated to, or volunteered at a civic organizations for the first time as a result of the 2016 national elections.\n\nIn addition to the organizations listed above, other Muslim organizations in the United States serve more specific needs. For example, some organizations focus almost exclusively on charity work. As a response to a crackdown on Muslim charity organizations working overseas such as the Holy Land Foundation, more Muslims have begun to focus their charity efforts within the United States.\n\n\nThere are two museums dedicated to the history of Islamic culture in the U.S. and abroad. The International Museum of Muslim Cultures in Jackson, Mississippi opened in early 2001. America's Islamic Heritage Museum in Washington, DC\nopened on April 30, 2011.\n\nThe Institute for Social Policy and Understanding, with offices in Dearborn, MI and Washington, DC, is an independent, nonpartisan research organization specializing in addressing the most pressing challenges facing the American Muslim community and in bridging the information gap between the American Muslim community and the wider society.\n\nA nationwide survey conducted in 2003 by the Pew Research Center and the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life reported that the percentage of Americans with an unfavorable view of Islam increased by one percentage point between 2002 and 2003 to 34%, and then by another two percentage points in 2005 to 36%. At the same time the percentage responding that Islam was more likely than other religion to encourage violence fell from 44% in July 2003 to 36% in July 2005.\n\nThe July 2005 Pew survey also showed that 59% of American adults view Islam as \"very different from their religion,\" down one percentage point from 2003. In the same survey 55% had a favorable opinion of Muslim Americans, up four percentage points from 51% in July 2003. A December 2004 Cornell University survey shows that 47% of Americans believe that the Islamic religion is more likely than others to encourage violence among its believers.\n\nA CBS April 2006 poll showed that, in terms of faiths\n\nThe Pew survey shows that, in terms of adherents\n\nA 2011 Gallup poll found that 56% of Protestants, 63% of Catholics, and 70% of Jews believed that American Muslims had no sympathy for Al Qaeda. A 2015 Brookings poll found that 14% Americans believe most Muslims support ISIS and another 44% believe Muslims partially support ISIS.\n\nA 2016 poll found that on average; Americans believed that 17% of the US population was Muslim and that this number would rise to 23% by 2020.\n\nA 2018 poll by The Institute for Social Policy and Understanding found that 86% of Americans report wanting to, “live in a country where no one is targeted for their religious identity.” 95% of American Jews and 78% of white Evangelicals agreed. The study also found that 66% of Americans agree that “the negative things politicians say regarding Muslims is harmful to our country.” Breaking down the results by faith community, 78% of Muslims and non-affiliated Americans agreed, contrasted with only 45% of white Evangelicals. Most Americans oppose banning the building of mosques (79%), the surveillance of U.S. mosques (63%), and the ‘Muslim Ban’ (~63%) pushed by the Trump Administration. Most Americans also take issue with the collective blaming of Muslims for the acts of individuals, and 69% of those surveyed believe Muslims are no more responsible for violence carried out by a Muslim than anyone else. ISPU writes that, “Though at a lower rate, the majority of Americans (55%) say that most Muslims living in the United States are committed to the well-being of America.” \n\nAccording to a research by the New America foundation and the American Muslim Initiative found in 2018,56 percent of Americans believed Islam was compatible with American values and 42 percent said it was not. About 60 percent believed US Muslims were as patriotic as others, while 38 percent they were not.The study also found that a big majority of Americans - 74 percent - accepted there was \"a lot\" of bigotry against Muslims existed.Researchers also found that Republicans were more likely to hold negative perceptions of Muslims with 71 percent.\n\nIn a 2007 survey titled \"Muslim Americans: Middle Class and Mostly Mainstream\", the Pew Research Center found Muslim Americans to be \"largely integrated, happy with their lives, and moderate with respect to many of the issues that have divided Muslims and Westerners around the world.\"\n\n47% of respondents said they considered themselves Muslims first and Americans second. However, this was compared to 81% of British Muslims and 69% of German Muslims, when asked the equivalent question. A similar disparity exists in income, the percentage of American Muslims living in poverty is 2% higher than the general population, compared to an 18% disparity for French Muslims and 29% difference for Spanish Muslims.\n\nPolitically, American Muslims both supported larger government and are socially conservative. Despite their social conservatism, 71% of American Muslims expressed a preference for the Democratic Party. The Pew Research survey also showed that nearly three quarters of respondents believed that American society rewards them for hard work regardless of their religious background.\n\nThe same poll also reported that 40% of U.S. Muslims believe that Arab Muslims carried out the 9/11 attacks. Another 28% do not believe it and 32% said they had no opinion. Among the 28% who doubted that Arab Muslims were behind the conspiracy, one-fourth said the U.S. government or President George W. Bush was responsible. 26% of American Muslims believe the U.S.-led \"war on terror\" is a sincere effort to root out international terrorism. 5% of those surveyed had a \"very favorable\" or \"somewhat favorable\" view of Al-Qaeda. 35% of American Muslims stated that the decision for military action in Afghanistan was the right one and 12% supported the use of military force in Iraq.\n\nIn 2011, a Gallup poll found that 93% of Muslim Americans considered themselves loyal to the United States.\n\nAlthough American Muslims do report feeling discriminated against as a religious minority, they are just as likely as the general public (81%) to say they value their American Identity. In fact, a 2018 study done by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding asserts that, “a higher religious identity correlates with a higher American identity among all Americans, especially Muslims.”\n\nIn a 2007 poll conducted by Pew Research Center, 27% of American Muslims believed that homosexuality should be accepted. In a 2011 poll, that percentage had risen to 39%. In a July 2017 poll, Muslims who say homosexuality should be accepted by society outnumber those who say it should be discouraged (52% of respondents, versus 33%)..According to research by the Public Religion Research Institute’s 2017 American Values Atlas, 51% of American Muslims favor same-sex marriage, while 34% are opposed..\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks, America saw an increase in the number of hate crimes committed against people who were perceived to be Muslim, particularly those of Middle Eastern and South Asian descent. More than 20 acts of discrimination and violence were documented in the post 9/11 era by the U.S. Department of Justice. Some of these acts were against Muslims living in America. Other acts were against those accused of being Muslims, such as Sikhs, and people of Arabian and South-Asian backgrounds A publication in Journal of Applied Social Psychology found evidence that the number of anti-Muslim attacks in America in 2001 increased from 354 to 1,501 following 9/11. The same year, the Arab American Institute reported an increase in anti-Muslim hate crimes ranging from discrimination and destruction of private property to violent threats and assaults, some of which resulted in deaths.\n\nIn a 2007 survey, 53% of American Muslims reported that it was more difficult to be a Muslim after the 9/11 attacks. Asked to name the most important problem facing them, the options named by more than ten percent of American Muslims were discrimination (19%), being viewed as a terrorist (15%), public's ignorance about Islam (13%), and stereotyping (12%). 54% believe that the U.S. government's anti-terrorism activities single out Muslims. 76% of surveyed Muslim Americans stated that they are very or somewhat concerned about the rise of Islamic extremism around the world, while 61% express a similar concern about the possibility of Islamic extremism in the United States.\n\nOn a small number of occasions Muslim women who wore distinctive hijab were harassed, causing some Muslim women to stay at home, while others temporarily abandoned the practice. In November 2009 Amal Abusumayah, a mother of four young girls, had her hijab pulled following derogatory comments while grocery shopping. In 2006, one California woman was shot dead as she walked her child to school; she was wearing a headscarf and relatives and Muslim leaders believe that the killing was religiously motivated. While 51% of American Muslims express worry that women wearing hijab will be treated poorly, 44% of American Muslim women who always wear hijab express a similar concern.\n\nIn 2011, The Learning Channel (TLC) broadcast a television series, \"All-American Muslim\", depicting the lives of different American Muslims in Dearborn, Michigan.\n\nEven 16 years after 9/11, studies show that 42% Muslim Americans report bullying of their children in school because of their faith. One in four bullying incidents involving muslims is rerouted to have involved a teacher or other school official. Policies regarding immigration and airport security have also impacted Muslim American Lives after 9/11, with Muslims being twice as likely as any other faith group surveyed to be stopped at the border for additional screening. 67% of Muslims who were stopped at a US border also reported that they were easily identifiable as a member of their faith group. The climate of the 2016 presidential election and the policies that followed have also affected the lives and sentiments of Muslims Americans when it comes to their own safety. Muslims and Jews are, “most likely to express fear for their personal safety or that of their family from white supremacist groups as a result of the 2016 elections.” Overall, the majority of nonwhite Muslims do report some level of race-based discrimination in the past year. When it comes to religious based discrimination, Muslim Americans as a whole were the most likely faith group to report it.\n\nA 2011 Pew poll reported support for extremism among Muslim Americans is negligible. The poll indicated all segments of the Muslim American population were opposed to violence and to a correlation between support for suicide bombing and religiosity measures. A 2007 Pew poll reported that very few Muslim Americans (1%) supported suicide bombings against civilian targets in at least some circumstances, with 81% reporting that suicide bombings and other forms of violence against civilians are never justified. Favorable views towards Al Qaeda were held by a comparably smaller percentage among Muslim Americans, 2% very favorable and 3% somewhat favorable. 15% of American Muslims under the age of 30 supported suicide bombings against civilian targets in at least some circumstances, on the other hand, 11% said it could be \"rarely justified\" in a 2007 Pew poll. Among those over the age of 30, just 6% expressed their support for the same. (9% of Muslims over 30 and 5% under 30 chose not to answer).\n\nTerrorism that involved Muslim perpetrators began in the United States with the 1993 shootings at CIA Headquarters in Langley, Virginia, followed by the 1993 World Trade Center bombing in New York City. After the September 11 attacks and the start of the Afghanistan war in 2001, there was concern about the potential radicalization of American Muslims. \n\nBetween 2001 and the end of 2009, there were 46 publicly reported incidents of \"domestic radicalization and recruitment to jihadist terrorism\" that involved at least 125 people between 2001 and the end of 2009. There had been an average of six cases per year since 2001, but that rose to 13 in 2009.\n\nWhile the seeming increase in cases may be alarming, half \"involve single individuals, while the rest represent ‘tiny conspiracies,’ \" according to Congressional testimony. Furthermore, a 2012 study by the University of North Carolina indicated that the yearly number of cases of alleged plots by Muslim-Americans appears to be declining. The total of 20 indictments for terrorism in 2011 is down from 26 in 2010 and 47 in 2009 (the total since 9/11 is 193). The number of Muslim-Americans indicted for support of terrorism also fell, from 27 individuals in 2010 to just eight in 2011 (the total since 9/11 stands at 462). Also in apparent decline is the number of actual attacks: Of the 20 suspects indicted for terrorism, only one was charged with carrying out a terrorist act. This number is down from the six individuals charged with attacks in 2010.\n\nMuslim Americans are significantly represented among those who tip authorities off to alleged plots having given 52 of the 140 documented tips regarding individuals involved in violent terrorist plots since 9/11.\n\nThe Boston Marathon bombing in 2013 caused 280 injuries, and 5 civilian and police deaths. Attempted attacks, like the Curtis Culwell Center attack and 2015 Boston beheading plot have attracted substantial media coverage and inflamed community relations. In 2015 the New America Foundation released information about violent extremist groups in the US. While the Boston Marathon bombing had a high injury toll, only four deaths were counted by the group, and the group's count of only deaths from violent extremism showed that since 9/11, 48 people had been killed by anti-government extremists, compared to 28 by Jihadists.\n\nSome Muslim Americans have been criticized because of perceived conflicts between their religious beliefs and mainstream American value systems. Muslim cab drivers in Minneapolis, Minnesota have been criticized for refusing passengers for carrying alcoholic beverages or dogs. The Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport authority has threatened to revoke the operating authority of any driver caught discriminating in this manner. There are reported incidents in which Muslim cashiers have refused to sell pork products to their clientele.\nAt least one American not of recent immigrant background, John Walker Lindh, has been imprisoned, convicted on charges of working with the Taliban and carrying weapons against American soldiers. He had converted to Islam while in the United States, moved to Yemen to study Arabic, and then went to Pakistan, where he was recruited by the Taliban.\n\nAnother American that was not of recent immigrant background, José Padilla, of Puerto Rican descent and the first Hispanic-American to be imprisoned and convicted on suspicion of plotting a radiological bomb (\"dirty bomb\") attack. He was detained as a material witness until June 9, 2002, when President George W. Bush designated him an enemy combatant and, arguing that he was not entitled to trial in civilian courts, had him transferred to a military prison. He had converted to Islam while serving his last jail sentence in prison, and went to Pakistan where he was recruited into Al-Qaeda.\n\nIn 2015 four U.S. Marines were killed and three injured in Chattanooga, Tennessee by a twenty four-year-old Kuwaiti man, a naturalized US citizen with an engineering degree.\n\nAccording to a 2011 Gallup poll, over the preceding decade there had been an increase in Islamophobia, which it defined as \"an exaggerated fear, hatred, and hostility toward Islam and Muslims that is perpetuated by negative stereotypes resulting in bias, discrimination, and the marginalization and exclusion of Muslims from social, political, and civic life.\" Another 2011 poll provided by \"The Washington Post\" through the Public Religion Research Institute states that 48 percent of Americans are uncomfortable with Muslim women wearing the burqa. A 2014 Pew Research Center survey found that Muslims were the most disliked religious group in the United States with an average \"cold\" rating of 40 (out of 100), which is lower than the 41 cold rating received by atheists. According to a poll in November 2015 by the Public Religion Research Institute 56 percent of Americans believe that the values of Islam are at odds with the American values and ways of life.\n\nPublic institutions in the U.S. have also drawn fire for accommodating Islam at the expense of taxpayers. The University of Michigan–Dearborn and a public college in Minnesota have been criticized for accommodating Islamic prayer rituals by constructing footbaths for Muslim students using tax-payers' money. Critics said this special accommodation, which is made to satisfy the needs of Muslims alone, is a violation of Constitutional provisions separating church and state. Along the same constitutional lines, a San Diego public elementary school is being criticized for making special accommodations, specifically for American Muslims, by adding Arabic to its curriculum and giving breaks for Muslim prayers. Some critics said exceptions have not been made for any religious group in the past, and they see this as an endorsement of Islam.\n\nThe first American Muslim Congressman, Keith Ellison, created controversy when he compared President George W. Bush's actions after the September 11, 2001 attacks to Adolf Hitler's actions after the Nazi-sparked Reichstag fire, saying that Bush was exploiting the aftermath of 9/11 for political gain, as Hitler had exploited the Reichstag fire to suspend constitutional liberties. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and the Anti-Defamation League condemned Ellison's remarks. The congressman later retracted the statement, saying that it was \"inappropriate\" for him to have made the comparison.\n\nAt Columbus Manor School, a suburban Chicago elementary school with a student body nearly half Muslim Arab American, school board officials have considered eliminating holiday celebrations after Muslim parents complained that their culture's holidays were not included. Local parent Elizabeth Zahdan said broader inclusion, not elimination, was the group's goal. \"I only wanted them modified to represent everyone,\" the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" quoted her as saying. \"Now the kids are not being educated about other people.\" However, the district's superintendent, Tom Smyth, said too much school time was being taken to celebrate holidays already, and he sent a directive to his principals requesting that they \"tone down\" activities unrelated to the curriculum, such as holiday parties.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54704853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54704853", "title": "Jefferson Davis (Coppini)", "text": "Jefferson Davis (Coppini)\n\nJefferson Davis is a statue depicting the American-Confederate politician of the same name by Pompeo Coppini. The sculpture was commissioned in 1919 by George W. Littlefield to be included in the Littlefield Fountain on the campus of the University of Texas at Austin. It was installed on the university's South Mall from 1933 to 2015, when it was relocated to the Dolph Briscoe Center for American History in Austin, Texas.\n\nIn 1919, University of Texas regent George W. Littlefield donated funds to pay for the construction of a \"Memorial Gateway\" at the south entrance to the university's campus that would honor the Confederate dead from the Civil War. He hired San Antonio-based Italian-born sculptor Pompeo Coppini to design the monument, which was to include a number of statues of notable figures from the history of Texas and the American South. The memorial was ultimately redesigned as the Littlefield Fountain and instead dedicated to the university's students and alumni who had died in the Great War (now known as World War I).\n\nAs part of the memorial project, in the 1920s Coppini sculpted bronze statues of Jefferson Davis and five other Texan and Confederate notables selected by Littlefield, which he intended to display around the fountain. However, as construction on the memorial proceeded in the early 1930s, campus architect Paul Cret decided to instead install the six statues along the university's South Mall, where they were placed in 1933 as the construction of the fountain complex was completed.\n\nBeginning in 2015 and accelerating in 2017, a national controversy grew over the prominent positions of monuments and memorials to the Confederacy in many public spaces across the United States, and particularly in the American South. In this context, the statues of Confederate notables along the university's South Mall that Coppini had designed for the Littlefield Fountain attracted increased public criticism.\n\nIn March 2015, UT's student government passed a resolution calling for the removal of \"Jefferson Davis\" from the South Mall. That August, the university in fact removed the statues of both Davis and Woodrow Wilson from the Mall and placed them in storage, despite a lawsuit from the Texas Division of the Sons of Confederate Veterans, which failed to persuade the Texas Supreme Court to block the plan. \"Davis\" was later relocated to the university's Dolph Briscoe Center for American History, where it has been displayed since 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "885011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885011", "title": "Joan Ganz Cooney", "text": "Joan Ganz Cooney\n\nJoan Ganz Cooney (born Joan Ganz; November 30, 1929) is an American television producer. She is one of the founders of Sesame Workshop (originally \"Children's Television Workshop\" or CTW), the organization famous for the creation of the children's television show \"Sesame Street\", which was also co-created by her. Ganz Cooney grew up in Phoenix, Arizona and earned a B.A. degree in education from the University of Arizona in 1951. After working for the State Department in Washington, D.C. and as a journalist in Phoenix, she worked as a publicist for television and production companies in New York City. In 1961, she became interested in working for educational television, and became a documentary producer for New York's first educational TV station WNET (Channel 13). Many of the programs she produced won local Emmys.\n\nIn 1966, Ganz Cooney hosted what she called \"a little dinner party\" at her apartment near Gramercy Park. In attendance was her then-husband Tim Cooney, her boss Lewis Freedman, and Lloyd Morrisett, an executive at the Carnegie Corporation, in which the potential of television to teach young children was discussed. Ganz Cooney was chosen to oversee and direct the creation of what eventually became the children's television program \"Sesame Street\", which premiered in 1969, and the CTW, the organization that oversaw its production. Ganz Cooney was named CTW's first executive director. As one of the first female executives in American television, her appointment was called \"one of the most important television developments of the decade\".\n\nGanz Cooney remained executive director of the CTW until 1990, when she became the chair of CTW's executive board. She served on several boards, was the trustees of many organizations, and received many awards and honorary degrees. In 2007, the Sesame Workshop founded The Joan Ganz Cooney Center, named in her honor.\n\nJoan Ganz was born on November 30, 1929, in Phoenix, Arizona, to Sylvan Ganz, a banker, and Pauline (née Reddon), a homemaker. Her father was a native Phoenician who was born in the U.S. so that his mother could receive medical care after his birth. Her grandfather Emil Ganz was a tailor from Walldorf, Thuringia, in Germany, who immigrated to the U.S. in 1858 and was president of the First National Bank of Arizona and mayor of Phoenix for three terms. Joan Ganz was the youngest of three siblings. She described her childhood as \"upper middle class, country club atmosphere\" and stated, \"I was raised in the most conventional way, raised to be a housewife and a mother, to work an interesting job when I got out of college, and to marry at the appropriate age, which would have been twenty-five\". Her father was Jewish and her mother was Catholic.\n\nShe attended North High School in Phoenix, where she was active in school plays. She stated that her biggest influence as a teenager was her teacher Bud Brown, whose lectures about the civil rights movement, poverty, the free press, and antisemitism in Europe \"absolutely inflamed\" her and changed her life. Brown was later investigated as a Communist. She went to Dominican College, an all-girls Catholic institution in San Rafael, California for a year before transferring to the University of Arizona in 1948. She stopped acting in college because her father refused to support her in that career. She chose education, even though she was not interested in becoming a teacher, on the recommendation of her mother and because as she later stated, \"It was something that girls of my generation did because teaching was acceptable\".\n\nAfter graduating in 1951, Ganz Cooney moved to Washington, D.C., where she worked as a clerk and typist at the State Department. She was exposed to Father James Keller's Christopher Movement, which inspired her to become involved with television and the media. Ganz Cooney later said, \"Father Keller said that if idealists didn't go into the media, nonidealists would\". She returned to Phoenix and despite no experience in journalism, took a job as a reporter at the \"Arizona Republic\". Eighteen months later, in 1953 and at the age of 23, she moved to New York City and was a publicist for the next ten years, initially for David Sarnoff at RCA, then at NBC writing press releases and soap opera synopses, and then for the \"United States Steel Hour\" at CBS. During this time, she became involved with liberal Democratic politics and \"fell in with a literary set of young writers and editors who gathered at the West Side apartment of \"Partisan Review\" editor William Phillips\". Some of this \"notable group\" included Jason Epstein and Norman Mailer. In 1956, after many years of depression, Ganz Cooney's father committed suicide at his home in Phoenix.\n\nWhile Ganz Cooney was working for the \"U.S. Steel Hour\", a colleague left to work for the educational television station WGBH-TV in Boston; her reaction was life-changing: \"What?! There is educational television?!\" She later stated, \"I knew that I was born to be in educational television; it was St. Paul on the highway\". In 1961, she began to track the progress of a court case in which a New York City nonprofit group was attempting to acquire Newark, New Jersey-based independent station WNTA-TV (channel 13), which would become the precursor of PBS station WNET, the first public television station in the New York area. When channel 13 became non-commercial two years later as WNDT, Ganz Cooney applied for a position as the station's publicist, but the general manager told her they needed producers. \"I can produce\", she told him, even though she had no experience in producing television shows. She later stated, \"I've never been qualified for any job I've been hired for\". According to television historian Cary O'Dell, WNDT hired her because of the ties she had made through her political activities and associations with \"Partisan Review\". Ganz Cooney later said during an interview with the Archive of American Television that the transition to becoming a documentary producer was not difficult for her because she was well-read and aware of the issues of the day, adding, \"I felt like I'd died and gone to heaven, dealing with foreign policy and domestic policy and civil rights, which became the great passion in those years for me\".\n\nTaking a pay cut, Ganz Cooney and her boss Lewis Freedman produced what author Michael Davis called \"a series of teach-ins on major issues\". One of her first programs was called \"Court of Reason\", a weekly live debate show; notable guests included Malcolm X and Calvin Butts. She produced a debate show on America's policy about Cuba that aired the week before the Cuban Missile Crisis. She also produced another debate show called \"Poverty, Anti-Poverty, and the World\", in which poor people were brought into the studio to confront the government officials responsible for developing anti-poverty programs. Although the ratings were low, Ganz Cooney and Freedman won Emmys for its production, and as Davis stated, \"the viewers who did tune in were serious-minded adults who cared about matters of race, injustice, and the imbalance of opportunity in New York and beyond\". She also produced inexpensively-made documentaries that she later called \"Little Grandma Moses documentaries\" for WNDT that were well received by their viewers, including \"A Chance at the Beginning\", which featured the precursor of Head Start that won her a local Emmy and was later used to train Head Start teachers. She later reported that WNDT had won eight out of 13 New York Emmys in one year.\n\nIn February 1964, at age 34, she married Timothy Cooney, a staff member of New York mayor Robert Wagner, Jr. They met while she was working on \"A Chance at the Beginning\". He was also director of public relations for the New York City Department of Labor and director of New York's Office of Civil Defense. Timothy Cooney would eventually become \"an unpaid advocate for the urban poor\". Ganz Cooney credited him, whom Davis called \"a radical feminist\", for making her into a feminist, and later said that he was very supportive and encouraging. Davis called the Cooneys \"a delightfully unmatched set, a Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn twosome who married despite differences in upbringing, station, and sobriety\".\n\nIn the winter of 1966, Ganz Cooney hosted what she called \"a little dinner party\" at her apartment near Gramercy Park. In attendance was her husband, her boss Lewis Freedman, and Lloyd and Mary Morrisett, whom the Cooneys knew socially. Lloyd Morrisett was a mid-level executive at Carnegie Corporation (who later became its CEO), and was then responsible for funding educational research. The conversation turned to the possibilities of using television to educate young children; Morrisett raised the question, \"Do you think television could be used to teach young children?\" Ganz Cooney replied, \"I don't know, but I'd like to talk about it.\" According to Davis, the party was the start of a five-decade long professional relationship between Ganz Cooney and Morrisett. A week later, Ganz Cooney and Freedman met with Morrisett at the offices of Carnegie Corporation to discuss doing a feasibility study on creating an educational television program for preschoolers. Freedman was opposed to Ganz Cooney's involvement because he did not think she would be interested in a project that focused on children and because he did not want to lose her at WNDT, but she was chosen to do the study.\n\nIn the summer of 1967, Ganz Cooney took a leave of absence from WNDT and, funded by Carnegie Corporation, traveled the U.S. and Canada interviewing experts in child development, education, and television. She reported her findings in a fifty-five-page document entitled \"The Potential Uses of Television in Preschool Education\". The report, which Gikow called \"a schematic for the show \"Sesame Street\" would become\", described what the new show would look like and proposed the creation of a company that oversaw its production, which eventually became known as the Children's Television Workshop (CTW). Ganz Cooney later stated that her undergraduate training in Education helped her research and write the study, and that it, along with her Emmy, provided her with credibility in the eyes of both the experts she interviewed and the new show's funding sources. Davis credited Ganz Cooney's motivation to be involved with the project with her journalism skills, learned early in her career, and her idealism, which drove her to want to, as she put it, \"make a difference\". She later told an interviewer, \"I could do a thousand documentaries on poverty and poor people that would be watched by a handful of the convinced, but I was never really going to have an influence on my times\". She later told Davis, \"Preschoolers were not necessarily my thing. It was using television in a constructive way that turned me on\".\n\nAt first, Ganz Cooney assumed that the project would be produced by WNDT, but when the station's owner rejected the proposal and questioned Ganz Cooney's credentials, she left the station and went to the Carnegie Corporation as a full-time consultant in May 1967. For the next two years, Ganz Cooney and Morrisett worked on researching and developing the new show, raising $8 million for \"Sesame Street\", and establishing the CTW. According to Davis, despite her leadership in the project's initial research and development, Ganz Cooney's installment as CTW's executive director was put in doubt due to her lack of high-level managerial experience and leadership, untested financial management skills, and lack of experience in children's television and education. Davis also speculated that sexism was involved, stating, \"Doubters also questioned whether a woman could gain the full confidence of a quorum of men from the federal government and two elite philanthropies, institutions whose wealth exceeded the gross national product of entire countries\". At first, Ganz Cooney did not fight for the position, but with the support of her husband and Morrisett, and after the investors of the project realized that they could not move forward without her, Ganz Cooney pursued it and was named executive director of CTW in February 1968. As one of the first female executives in American television, her appointment was called \"one of the most important television developments of the decade\".\n\n\"Sesame Street\" premiered on PBS on November 10, 1969. In its first season, the show won three Emmys, a Peabody, and was featured on the cover of \"Time\" magazine. According to \"Newsday\", \"Scores of glowing newspaper and magazine stories fluttered down on Mrs. Cooney and her workshop like confetti onto the heads of conquering heroes\". Les Brown of \"Variety\" called Ganz Cooney \"St. Joan\". Ganz Cooney later reported, \"The reception was so incredible. The press adored us; the parents adored us.\" The first year \"Sesame Street\" was on the air, Ganz Cooney was, as Davis put it, \"inundated with attention\". Ganz Cooney reported that the requests for interviews from the press \"were endless\", and attributed it to the emergence of the women's movement in the early 1970s. Ganz Cooney also testified before Congressional hearings on children and television, starting before the show's premiere.\n\nIn 1969, the Cooneys, who were childless, became \"\"de facto\" foster parents to an inner-city black child\" whom Tim met while working in Harlem for a civil rights organization. Eventually, the child returned to live with his mother and was killed in New York City before he turned 30. The Cooneys' marriage, which Davis called \"turbulent\", ended in 1975. Due to Tim's long history of alcoholism, he was unable to support himself, so Ganz Cooney paid him alimony until his death in 1999. In August 1975, nine months after separating from her husband, Ganz Cooney was diagnosed with breast cancer and underwent a radical mastectomy. In 1980, Ganz Cooney married businessman Peter G. Peterson, former U.S. Secretary of Commerce under President Richard Nixon. They met when Peterson was on the board of National Educational Television, during her presentation of \"Sesame Street\" to them. From her marriage to Peterson, she has five stepchildren.\n\nGanz Cooney remained the chairman and chief executive officer of the CTW until 1990, when she stepped down and was replaced by David Britt, whom Ganz Cooney called her \"right-hand for many years\". Britt had worked for her at the CTW since 1975 and had been its president and chief operating officer since 1988. At that time, she became chairman of the CTW's executive board, which oversaw its businesses and licensing, and became more involved in the organization's creative side. \nCooney served on several committees and corporate boards, including the Mayo Foundation, Chase Manhattan Bank, Johnson & Johnson, and Metropolitan Life Insurance. Ganz Cooney recognized that she was invited to serve on these boards because she was a woman, and because companies were trying to be more inclusive. She also did some public speaking on the behalf of the CTW and returning to her roots, worked on documentaries. She credited her involvement with the boards with teaching her how to run an organization and about the business world. In 1990, she was the first female nonperformer to be inducted into the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Hall of Fame, and was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Bill Clinton in 1995.\n\nIn 2007, Sesame Workshop founded The Joan Ganz Cooney Center, an independent, non-profit organization which studies how to improve children's literacy by using and developing digital technologies \"grounded in detailed educational curriculum\", just as was done during the development of \"Sesame Street\". In 2014, Public Prep launched a full day pre-kindergarten program for low-income 4 year olds living in South Bronx NYC Housing Authority projects, called the Joan Ganz Cooney Early Learning Program.\n\n\"Unless otherwise stated, the items in this list are from The Museum of Broadcast Communications.\"\n\nBoard of directors\n\nTrustee\n\nHonorary degrees \n\nCitations\nWorks Cited\n\n"}
{"id": "49407351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49407351", "title": "Knockans", "text": "Knockans\n\nThe Knockans is an Iron Age linear earthwork located in south-west Ireland, believed to be the site of the ancient Tailteann Games.\n\nOne of a number of Irish Iron Age linear earthworks, the Knockans is a double-banked monument partly destroyed by bulldozer in May 1997, which saw the northern bank totally destroyed and other material damage done. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30654493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30654493", "title": "Learned pig", "text": "Learned pig\n\nThe learned pig was a pig taught to respond to commands in such a way that it appeared to be able to answer questions by picking up cards in its mouth. By choosing cards it answered arithmetical problems and spelled out words. The \"learned pig\" caused a sensation in London during the 1780s. It became a common object of satire, illustrated in caricatures and referred to in literature.\n\nThe original \"learned pig\" was followed by other trained pigs, which subsequently became a feature of fairs and other public attractions in Europe and America during the 19th century. In the words of G.E. Bentley, \"They served as subjects for cartoons by Rowlandson and moral essays in children's books and savage doggerel by Blake, and they illustrated the manners of the English in works by Joseph Strutt and Robert Southey and Thomas Hood. These freaks of learning clearly exercised a fascination among the literary geniuses of the age as they did among the swinish multitude.\"\n\nThe original Learned Pig was trained by a Scotsman Samuel Bisset, who ran a travelling novelty show. The idea of an \"intellectual\" animal was not new. A similar attraction known as \"Marocco the thinking horse\" (c.1586–c.1606) had been exhibited over a century earlier; there were also contemporary examples of the \"horse of knowledge\", exhibited for example at Astley's Amphitheatre. But performing horses were nothing unusual. No performing pigs are known to have been trained before.\n\nThe pig was shown with great success in Dublin. After Bisset's death the pig was taken over by a Mr Nicholson, who toured it in Britain. It was exhibited in Nottingham in 1784, coming to London in the following year.\" According to publicity at the time,\n\nThis entertaining and sagacious animal casts accounts by means of Typographical cards, in the same manner as a Printer composes, and by the same method sets down any capital or Surname, reckons the number of People present, tells by evoking on a Gentleman's Watch in company what is the Hour and Minutes; he likewise tells any Lady's Thoughts in company, and distinguishes all sorts of colours.\n\nThe show was a great success, and the pig later toured the provincial towns, returning to London later in the year and then moving on to the continent of Europe. After a career of four years a report stated that the pig died in 1788. However, a later report claimed that it had just returned from France following the revolution of 1789, and was ready to \"discourse on the Feudal System, the Rights of Kings and the Destruction of the Bastille\".\n\nThe phenomenon caused much comment. James Boswell recalls conversations with Samuel Johnson in which he joked about the pig's scholarship. Johnson never saw the pig. He died just before it came to London, but he commented on a report of its show in Nottingham. He suggested that \"the pigs are a race unjustly calumniated. \"Pig\" has, it seems, not been wanting to \"man\", but \"man\" to \"pig\". We do not allow \"time\" for his education, we kill him at a year old.\" Another man present joked that Alexander Pope would not have used the pig as a symbol of \"the lowest degree of grovelling instinct\" in his works if this creature had been known to him, but added that the pig had probably been subject to some form of torture to force it to respond to commands. Johnson replied that at least it had escaped slaughter: \"the pig has no cause to complain; he would have been killed the first year if he had not been \"educated\", and protracted existence is a good recompence for very considerable degrees of torture.\"\n\nThe discussion about how the pig had been trained also led to disputes about the cognitive abilities of pigs; whether the animal actually recognised letters or even words, or whether it was simply responding to direct prompting. The phenomenon was also discussed in instructional literature aimed at children, to describe the essential difference between human and animal capacities and to warn against cruelty to animals, on the assumption that the pigs were badly beaten by their trainers to force them to behave. Mrs Trimmer in her children's book \"The Robin Redbreasts\" (1788), \"designed to teach children the proper treatment of animals\", mentions the pig in chapter entitled \"The Cruel Boy\": aiming to teach that animals are not \"mere machines, actuated by the unerring hand of Providence\", it says that the sight of the Learned Pig, \"which has lately been shown in London, has deranged these ideas, and I know not what think\".\n\nIn 1798 a learned pig appeared in the United States. William Frederick Pinchbeck displayed a \"Pig of Knowledge\" in New England. He claimed to have toured all the major towns of the Union and introduced the pig to President John Adams, to \"universal applause\". Pinchbeck later explained his methods of training the pig in a pamphlet. He denied that any form of torture was involved, insisting that it was better to \"coax\" the pig to follow instructions. The animal would soon learn to respond to the slightest hints of movement from the trainer. He stated that credulous spectators accused him of using witchcraft, one stating that \"his performances were the effects of the Black Art; that the Pig ought to be burnt, and the Man banished, as he had no doubt but...[his trainer] familiarly corresponded with the devil.\" Others suggested that the pig was evidence of reincarnation: \"the spirit of the grunting philosopher might once have animated a man.\"\n\nIn the early 19th century, Nicholas Hoare, an illusionist, exhibited \"Toby the sapient pig\" in London. Toby could \"discover a person’s thoughts\", a skill \"never heard of before to be exhibited by an animal of the swine race\". Around 1817 Toby also published an autobiography, \"The life and adventures of Toby, the sapient pig: with his opinions on men and manners. Written by himself\".\n\nA pig owned by Pinchbeck was shown in London between 1818 and 1823. According to his publicity, the pig had acquired his wisdom from \"Souchanguyee, the Chinese Philosopher.\" He answered questions by \"pointing to cards, letters, and persons in the audience.\"\n\n\"Toby\" became a standard name for a learned pig. The writer Harrison Weir depicts a learned pig called Toby, which he saw a \"year ago at Camberwell Fair\" for a penny. According to Harrison, the pig carried a correctly numbered card to a person who had called out a number; it spelled \"vittels,\" and then it left to have some, \"with a joyful grunt, and the show was over.\"\n\nThe original learned pig inspired a large number of satirical comments and comic prints. Thomas Rowlandson published a caricature of \"The Wonderful Pig\" in 1785, in which the pig is shown displaying his erudition to a crowd of amazed ladies and gentlemen. A placard states \"The Surprising PIG well versed in all Languages, perfect Arethmatician Mathematician & Composer of Musick.\"\n\nOther caricatures used the appeal of the pig to poke fun at theatrical fads of the day. \"The Theatrical War\" satirises the actor-impresario John Palmer, dressed in Shakespearean costume, being threatened by other attractions including the pig.\n\nThe 1784 print \"The Downfall of Taste and Genius, or, The World As it Goes\" by Samuel Collings ridicules \"the taste that prefers the Dancing Dogs, the Learned Pig, and Harlequin to Shakespeare\". This was a \"recurrent theme\" of prints at the time. The print depicts the pig leading a procession of performing animals who knock over figures representing the fine arts while copies of Shakespeare's and Pope's works are trampled underfoot by the animals.\n\nAn anonymous print entitled \"The Wonderful Pig of Knowledge\" shows a pig performing in a parlour apparently engaged in spelling the word \"PORC[INE]\"\n\nPoliticians were also satirised by being compared to the pig. William Pitt was referred to as \"the Wonderful Pig\" on several occasions. One satirical print showed Pitt with the body of a pig; the caption asserted that among his powers was the ability to explain recent Acts of Parliament, a feat \"before never having been even \"attempted\" in these our realms!!!\" In one print Pitt and his opponent Charles James Fox were both depicted as competing learned pigs.\n\nThe concept of the \"learned pig\" became a common motif in satirical literature by the late 18th century, playing on the implied contrast between gross physicality and intellectual superiority. The poet William Cowper lamented that his fame had been unfavourably compared to both the pig and a \"prostitute\" (the notoriously promiscuous actress Anne Bellamy). A poem published in 1785 referred to the fact that the pig had arrived in London just after Johnson's death,\n\nThe anonymous pamphlet \"The Story of the Learned Pig, By an officer of the Royal Navy\" (1786) picked up the theme of reincarnation. This presents itself as the personal reminiscences of the pig, as told to the author. He describes himself as a soul that has successively migrated from the body of Romulus into various humans and animals before becoming the Learned Pig. He recalls his previous incarnations. After Romulus he became Brutus, and then entered several human and animal bodies. Adapting the Shakespeare theme, the pamphlet states that he became a man called \"Pimping Billy\", who worked as a horse-holder at a playhouse with Shakespeare and was the real author of his plays. He then became a famous British aristocrat and general — identified only by asterisks — before entering the body of a pig.\n\nPuns on the name \"Bacon\", referring to the philosopher Francis Bacon, also appeared in the literature. In the poem \"The Prophetic Pig\", in \"The Whim of the Day\" (c.1794) a believer in reincarnation states, \"I can easily trace...A metempsychosis in this pig's face!...And in transmigration, if I'm not mistaken,/This learned pig must be, by consanguinity,/Descended from the great Lord Bacon.\" Thomas Hood's poem \"The Lament of Toby, The Learned Pig\" also uses the Bacon pun, adding another on the poet James Hogg. He describes the thoughts of a learned pig forced to retire from his intellectual pursuits to be fattened for slaughter. The pig says \"Goodbye to the poetic Hogg!/The philosophic Bacon!\":\n\nWilliam Blake attacked debased public taste in a poem dedicated to the artist James Barry, writing that the nation which neglected Barry might \"give pensions to the Learned Pig / Or the Hare playing on a Tabor\". He also alludes to it in his satire \"An Island in the Moon\". In 1807 Robert Southey parodied the contrast between real genius and meretricious celebrity by referring to the pig, noting that \"the learned pig was in his day a far greater object of admiration to the English nation than ever was Sir Isaac Newton.\" William Wordsworth refers to the pig in \"The Prelude\", describing it as one of the \"freaks of nature\" to be seen at Bartholomew Fair:\n\nThe pig continued to be a common reference point for writers, mentioned by Mary Wollstonecraft and Charles Dickens among others. In \"The Mudfog Papers\" Dickens describes a moving lecture given at the \"Mudfog Society for the Advancement of Everything\" by Mr Blunderum on the dying moments of the learned pig. The lecturer was asked whether the learned pig was related to the Pig-faced Lady, causing embarrassment to an audience member who \"was\" related to the lady, but who refused to admit a family connection to the learned pig.\n\nEven Mrs Beeton begins her recipe for cooking sucking pig with the observation that pigs are capable of \"education\" \"and though, like the ass, naturally stubborn and obstinate, that he is equally amenable with other animals to caresses and kindness\". This is proven by \"the instance of the learned pig, first exhibited about a century since, but which has been continued down to our own time by repeated instances of an animal who will put together all the letters or figures that compose the day, month, hour and date of the exhibition, besides many other unquestioned evidences of memory.\"\n\nMost recently, the \"Learned Pig\" has made a reappearance of sorts in popular culture; in 2003 he was the subject of a song, \"The Learned Pig,\" which was part of a concept concert and recording by the UK band the Tiger Lillies, based on a poem by Edward Gorey. The musical \"Toby the Incredible Learned Pig\", written by Daniel Freedman, was a finalist in the Wonderland One Act Festival at Theater Works 42nd St. NYC in 2007. In 2011 there appeared a novel, \"Pyg: The Memoirs of a Learned Pig\", by Russell Potter, based on the career of the original \"Toby\". ()\n\n"}
{"id": "51839901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51839901", "title": "Luke Herrmann", "text": "Luke Herrmann\n\nLutz Johann Wolfgang Maximilian \"Luke\" Herrman (9 March 1932 – 9 September 2016) was a British art historian who was an expert on the art of J.M.W. Turner.\n\nLuke Herrmann was born on 9 March 1932 in Berlin into a German Jewish family. He was educated in England at Westminster School and at the University of Oxford.\n\nHerrmann worked at the \"Illustrated London News\" where he got to know the editor Bruce Ingram who was a prominent art collector and under whose guidance he began to collect English watercolour paintings in the 1950s. After Ingram's death in 1963, Herrmann inherited over 30 pictures from him which he donated to a selection of British art galleries in 2002. He later worked at the Ashmolean Museum.\n\nHerrmann died on 9 September 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "4228914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4228914", "title": "Lydia Fairchild", "text": "Lydia Fairchild\n\nLydia Fairchild is an American woman who exhibits chimerism, in having two distinct populations of DNA among the cells of her body. She was pregnant with her third child when she and the father of her children, Jamie Townsend, separated. When Fairchild applied for enforcement of child support in 2002, providing DNA evidence of Townsend's paternity was a routine requirement. While the results showed Townsend to be certainly their father, they seemed to rule out her being their mother.\n\nFairchild stood accused of fraud by either claiming benefits for other people's children, or taking part in a surrogacy scam, and records of her prior births were put similarly in doubt. Prosecutors called for her two children to be taken away from her. As time came for her to give birth to her third child, the judge ordered that an observer be present at the birth, ensure that blood samples were immediately taken from both the child and Fairchild, and be available to testify. Two weeks later, DNA tests seemed to indicate that she was also not the mother of that child.\n\nA breakthrough came when a lawyer for the prosecution knew of Karen Keegan, a chimeric woman in Boston, and suggested the similar possibility to Fairchild's lawyer, Alan Tindell, who then introduced an article in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" about Keegan. He realised that Fairchild's case might also be caused by chimerism. As in Keegan's case, DNA samples were taken from members of the extended family. The DNA of Fairchild's children matched that of Fairchild's mother to the extent expected of a grandmother. They also found that, although the DNA in Fairchild's skin and hair did not match her children's, the DNA from a cervical smear test did match. Fairchild was carrying two different sets of DNA, the defining characteristic of chimerism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8904601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8904601", "title": "Marathon Boy", "text": "Marathon Boy\n\nThe Marathon Boy or Ephebe of Marathon is a Greek bronze sculpture found in the Aegean Sea in the bay of Marathon in 1925.\n\nThe sculpture is conserved in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens where it is dated to around 340–330 BC. The Museum suggests that the subject is the winner of an athletic competition. With its soft musculature and exaggerated \"contrapposto\", its style is associated with the school of Praxiteles. The upraised arm and the distribution of weight indicate that in his original context, this \"ephebe\" was leaning against a vertical support, such as a column. \n\nBefore the advent of scuba diving, its chance recovery suggested the possibility that artistic as well as archaeological treasures had been preserved from human destruction in underwater sites. Other well-known underwater bronze finds have been retrieved, generally from shipwreck sites, in the Aegean and Mediterranean: the Antikythera mechanism, the \"Antikythera Ephebe\" and the portrait head of a Stoic discovered by sponge-divers in 1900, the Mahdia shipwreck off the coast of Tunisia, 1907; the standing \"Poseidon of Cape Artemision\" found off Cape Artemision in northern Euboea, 1926; the \"horse\" and \"Rider\" found off Cape Artemision, 1928 and 1937; the \"Getty Victorious Youth\" dredged up off the coast of Fano, Italy; the Riace bronzes, found in 1972; the Dancing Satyr of Mazara del Vallo, in the Sicily Channel, 2003; and the \"Apoxyomenos\" recovered from the sea off the Croatian island of Lošinj in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "22374941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22374941", "title": "Mattole language", "text": "Mattole language\n\nMattole, or Mattole–Bear River, is an extinct Athabaskan language once spoken by the Mattole and Bear River peoples of northern California. It is one of the four languages belonging to the \"California Athabaskan\" cluster of the Pacific Coast Athabaskan languages. It was found in two locations: in the valley of the Mattole River, immediately south of Cape Mendocino on the coast of northwest California, and a distinct dialect on Bear River, about 10 miles to the north.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34247986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34247986", "title": "Nova revija (magazine)", "text": "Nova revija (magazine)\n\nNova revija (Slovene for \"New Review\" or \"New Journal\") is a Slovene language literary magazine published in Slovenia.\n\n\"Nova revija\" was founded by Cankarjeva Publishing House in 1982, when the Titoist regime allowed a group of liberal and conservative critical intellectuals to publish an editorially entirely independent journal for the first time after the abolishment of the magazine \"Perspektive\" in 1964. The owner and publisher of the magazine is Nova revija Publishing House.\n\nAlready in 1980, shortly after the death of the Yugoslav president Josip Broz Tito, six Slovenian authors and intellectuals (columnist Dimitrij Rupel, philosopher Tine Hribar, poets Niko Grafenauer, Svetlana Makarovič and Boris A. Novak, and literary historian Andrej Inkret) submitted a petition to the authorities of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia in which they demanded to be allowed to publish a new independent journal. The petition maintained that the alternative magazine \"Problemi\", which had served as the main critical publication in Slovenia since the mid-1960s, had been taken over by the Ljubljana Lacanian school, and that a new journal was needed. The petition was signed by over 60 public figures from Slovenia, which published a support letter in the daily magazine \"Delo\". It took however two years before the journal was allowed to be published. The first issue appeared in 1982, under the simple name of \"Nova revija\", meaning \"New Journal\" or \"New Review\". The publishing board included intellectuals from different generations and different ideological positions. Their common feature was a critical stance towards the Communist regime, from a western perspective: either liberal, conservative, Christian democratic, or Social democratic.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, \"Nova revija\" became one of the chief voices of dissent in Slovenia, together with the left liberal popular magazine \"Mladina\".\n\nIn 1987, the 57th issue of \"Nova revija\" was published, which included the Contributions to the Slovenian National Program, a plea for a democratic and sovereign Slovenia. In 1989, the intellectual group around the journal established the Slovenian Democratic Union, which soon emerged as one of the key political parties within the DEMOS coalition, a broad coalition that won the first free elections to the National Assembly of Slovenia in April 1990.\n\nIn the 1980s \"Nova revija\" had a circulation of 3,500 copies. Its circulation dropped to 1,500 copies in the 1990s.\n\nAfter the independence of Slovenia in 1991, the magazine expanded into one of the most important cultural institutions in Slovenia.\n\nProminent authors, essayists, columnists, and thinkers have contributed to \"Nova revija\", among them sociologists Jože Pučnik, Igor Škamperle, Gregor Tomc, Aleš Debeljak and Frane Adam; political analysts Viktor Blažič and Dimitrij Rupel; essayists Žarko Petan, Brane Senegačnik, Alenka Puhar, Spomenka Hribar, Andrej Capuder and Igor Senčar; poets Veno Taufer, Niko Grafenauer, Aleš Šteger, Jože Snoj, Boris A. Novak, Josip Osti, Dane Zajc, and Tomaž Šalamun; philosophers Tine Hribar, Ivo Urbančič and Dean Komel; legal experts France Bučar and Peter Jambrek; writers Rudi Šeligo, Lojze Kovačič, Alojz Rebula, Drago Jančar, and Boris Pahor; literary critics Taras Kermauner, Janko Kos and Simona Škrabec; historians Vasko Simoniti, Peter Vodopivec, Peter Štih, Igor Grdina, and Jože Pirjevec and many others. Many notable non-Slovene authors, especially dissidents from former Yugoslavia and the former Communist bloc, have contributed to the magazine, including Adam Michnik, Václav Havel, György Konrád, Dobrica Ćosić, and Vlado Gotovac. Western authors and columnist who have contributed to the magazine include Jacques Rupnik, Thomas Luckmann, Gianni Vattimo, and Fernando Savater.\n\nThe journal has published translations of foreign literates such as Naguib Mahfouz, Zbigniew Herbert, Wyslawa Szymborska, Peter Handke, Diego Marani, and Czeslaw Milosz, as well as theorists like Jan Patočka, Hannah Arendt, Charles Taylor, Jacques Derrida, François Furet, Francis Fukuyama, Jürgen Habermas, Niklas Luhmann, and Peter Szondi.\n\n"}
{"id": "7116638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7116638", "title": "Ordubad", "text": "Ordubad\n\nOrdubad (also, Ordoubat and Ordubat) is the second largest town and a municipality of the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic of Azerbaijan and is one of its three regions. It is the capital of the \"rayon\" Ordubad District. Ordubad is a medieval city of the Caucasus and in its current capacity of a town was founded in the 18th century. The town is divided into five districts: the Ambaras, the Kurdtatal, the Mingis, the Sar sheher, and the Uch. Ordubad is known as the “pearl” of Nakhchevan province and is well known for its exports of fruits and spices, and for its cuisine.\n\nOrdubad is a name of Turco-Persian origin and means \"army town\" (from Turkic ordu (army) and Persian bad (town)), which implies that the city was founded during the period of the Mongol or the ensuing Il-Khanid rule. Hamdallah Mustawfi (1281–1349) mentions Ordubad in the mid-14th century as \"a provincial town, one of the five towns making up the \"tumān\" of Nakhchivan, with fine gardens, and producing good grapes, corn and cotton\".\n\nFrench traveller Jean Saint-Martin mentions, in his 1818 book about the geography of Armenia, that the contemporary people referred to the city as \"Ordouvar\" () or \"Ourdovar\" () in Armenian, and \"Ardoubad\" in Turkish and Persian, and that the settlement had already existed in the 14th century.\n\nThe Ordubad city, known as the “pearl” of Nakhchevan province, is located at an elevation of . It is in the northern bank of the central stretch of the Araxes (Aras) river of the eastern Transcaucasia which earlier belonged to Persia, now in Azerbaijan. the second largest town. The Ordubad Province itself has an area of and is delimited by Iran on the south, Armenia forming the north and west border, and the Julfa region of Nakhchivan bordering the east. The river that rises from the north from the Mt. Qobān (also known as Tk. Qapïjïq, Rus. Kapudzhukh or Kapydzhik) at an elevation of drains into the Araxes. The town is divided into five districts of the Ambaras, the Kurdtatal, the Mingis, the Sar sheher, and the Uch. The city has a large number of walnut and mulberry trees. The closest railway station is Ordubad and the distance to Nakhchivan city is . Tabriz is away to the north-northwest.\n\nIn 1999 the population of the city was reported as 5,000. Most of the population belonged to the Shiite Muslim sect with Armenians and Russians forming a minority.\n\nThe city may have been established by the 14th century, or earlier. The Ottoman Empire (1299–1923) had occupied the Ordubad territory in the past. Before this occupation, a local rebellion had been organized against invasion of the Ottomans by Hadji, known as “Kasab” (butcher) and Bayandar when they came to know that Saffavids were to launch an attack. They were backed by the local people. The rebels initially took control of the city and also occupied a fortress near the city. However, the rebels had their own internal dissensions, and as a result a small battalion of the Ottoman army defeated the rebels and killed them. Following this victory and occupation by the Ottomans, Khaten bey Ordubadi, the prime vizier, appealed to the Shah to waive off all taxes levied on the local people, which was agreed.\n\nOrdubad was once an important regional stop on the caravan route of the Silk Road trade with China, Europe and India. The city was first founded as Gala city, a feudal city, on the top of the Ambras on the left bank of Ordubadchay River in the 15th century. In view of extensive trade, the city started developing on the right bank of the Ordubadchay with many new districts. In the 17th and 18th centuries trade centres were established in the city on the right bank, which diminished the importance of Gala city. Built in the backdrop of Zangezur Caucasus mountain it is enclosed on three sides by mountains providing for a very green environment. In the 17th century the city underwent major reconstruction activity, maintaining eastern feudal architectural features. Following the Russo-Persian War (1826-1828), the town passed from Iranian rule to Imperial Russian rule under the Treaty of Turkmenchay of 1828. According to a census conducted in 1834, Ordubad, with its 52 villages, had a population of 11,341 constituting of Muslims and Armenians.\n\nThe Ordubad site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on 24 October 2001 in the Cultural category under Criteria (i), (iv) and (v).\n\nArchaeological excavations carried out by Russian archaeologists in ancient settlements of Ordubad have unearthed remnants of Bronze age dated to the fourth century. It includes a necropolis, which revealed graves of warriors also dated to the fourth century. These were initially assessed, in 1928, as skeletons of only warrior men but subsequent research carried out by the Archaeological and Ethnological Institute of Azerbaijan National Academy of Science in 2004 has concluded that at least one of the skeletons is of a woman warrior found with her armory such as quiver, arrows and helmet.\n\nOrdubad economy is dependent on trading particularly of fruits, wheat, and silk; grapes are of 40 varieties. The silk exports have been mostly to Venice, Marseille, Amsterdam and many other places in Europe, from the middle of the 16th century. During the early years of the 20th century the Ordubad silk received 13 gold medals in the international exhibitions and fairs. Arak is also an export commodity of the city. Economic activity in Ordubad and near by regions includes copper mining, Paragachayskoe molybdenum deposit from the Meghri-Ordubad gratoidnym batholiths, bauxite, tungsten and tin ore.\n\n21 industrial plants operated in the region in 2015. The average number of people working for industry is 634. The cost of industrial products was 8469,7 thousand manat in 2015. Its rate is 4.8 times more than the level in 2005. There are 9 milk processing plants in Ordubad. The daily production rate is 24 ton. Besides, the wine plant <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Oren-Gala\" produces pomegranate juice.\n\nIn the new city of Ordubad, planned in the 17th century, there were five divisions or districts with trade squares of larger size than the earlier blocks, which also had a plethora of mosques, springs, and bath-houses. The medieval market square in the heart of the city is prominent and the glass mosque, the Cümə Mosque, is a landmark. Caravan sheds and the market here traded in silk and dry fruits with East European countries. The lay out of the streets is radial and appears in the shape of a fan close to the center of the city. Each of the streets have squares which are a typical feature of the city. A well known suburb of the city is Akulis through which a small stream flows. The city has many private and public schools. The city has a number qanats or underground canals called \"kahriz\", which are the source of water for houses and orchards. The city reflects tradition and culture of northern and southern Azerbaijan.\n\nThere are three museums in Ordubad. \n\nJuma Mosque, in the heart of the city, was initially built as the office of Hatambek Ordubadi vizier of Shah Abbas, in the 17th century. Even now it looks more like a palace. The history museum, located on the opposite side, is a domed structure that is dated to the 18th century which in the past was used as a silk shop, restaurant and \"zurkhaneh\" (\"house of strength\"). Soviet era photos are exhibited here. The porch here was once decorated with statues of Russian communists and the roof was also designed in Russian architecture, and these have since been removed. \n\nQeyyseriye building is a historic edifice dated to the 17th century, located in the main market centre. It is now a historical and ethnography museum.\n\nGemigaya Mountain is an important backdrop to the city which is known for its petroglyphs, necropolises, and ancient settlements of Ordubad, Sabirkend, Plovdagh and Kharaba Gilan, which attests to its occupancy between 7th to 1st century BC. It is situated within the Ordubad National Park.\n\nIn the Astronomical Observatory at Ordubad, Nakhichevan ASSR and also at the Tarija, Bolivia, with the help of expedition astrograph, 6,000 plates were recorded from 1983–1988 which cataloged 200,000 stars south of the equator up to the 11th magnitude.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3677184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3677184", "title": "Our Lady of Dublin", "text": "Our Lady of Dublin\n\nOur Lady of Dublin is a statue of the Virgin Mary on display in Whitefriar Street Carmelite Church in Dublin, Ireland, that represents the Black Madonna of Ireland.\n\nStylistically, the statue resembles early 16th century wooden statuary and probably dates from that period.\n\nLocal legend with tenuous documentary support suggests that the statue originated in St. Mary's Abbey on Mary Street in Dublin which was dissolved as part of the Henrician reforms in 1539 (see: Dissolution of the Monasteries).\n\nThe first concrete historical mention dates from 1749 in a survey of the Catholic Chapels of Dublin, which refers to a statue in St. Mary's Lane Parochial Chapel. The chapel was torn down in 1816 to make way for a new school and no further mention of the statue is recorded until it was found by Father John Spratt, a member of the Carmelite order, in 1824.\n\nThe restored statue has been on display near the high altar of the church in a purpose built shrine since 1915.\n\nThe feast-day of Our Lady of Dublin is celebrated on 8 September.\n"}
{"id": "350222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350222", "title": "Perusia", "text": "Perusia\n\nThe ancient Perusia, now Perugia, first appears in history as one of the 12 confederate cities of Etruria. It is first mentioned in the account of the war of 310 or 309 BC between the Etruscans and the Romans. It took, however, an important part in the rebellion of 295 BC and was reduced, with Vulsinii and Arretium (Arezzo), to seek for peace in the following year.\n\nIt seems the city was in the Antonii's clientela since this period, as it was said by historians during imperial times.\n\nIn 216 BC and 205 BC it assisted Rome in the Hannibalic war, but afterward it is not mentioned until 41–40 BC, when Lucius Antonius took refuge there and was reduced by Octavian after a long siege. \nSome of the refugees ran away toward Gauls to escape Octavian. A local history said they were the founders of Perouges en Dauphiné Province (France).\n\nA number of lead bullets used by slingers have been found in and around the city. The city was burnt, we are told, with the exception of the temples of Vulcan and Juno — the massive Etruscan terrace-walls, naturally, can hardly have suffered at all — and the town, with the territory for a mile round, was allowed to be occupied by whoever chose. It must have been rebuilt almost at once, for several bases exist, inscribed \"Augusta sacr(um) Perusia restituta\"; but, as we have seen, it did not become a colony until AD 251–253.\n"}
{"id": "14038538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14038538", "title": "Prehistoric numerals", "text": "Prehistoric numerals\n\nCounting in prehistory was first assisted by using body parts, primarily the fingers. \nThis is reflected in the etymology of certain number names, such as in the names of \"ten\" and \"hundred\" in the Proto-Indo-European numerals, both containing the root *\"dḱ\" also seen in the word for \"finger\" (Latin \"digitus\", cognate to English \"toe\").\n\nEarly systems of counting using tally marks appear in the Upper Paleolithic.\nThe first more complex systems develop in the Ancient Near East together with the development of early writing out of proto-writing systems.\n\nNumerals originally developed from the use of tally marks as a counting aid, with the oldest examples being about 35,000 to 25,000 years old.\n\nCounting aids like tally marks become more sophisticated in the Near Eastern Neolithic, developing into various types of proto-writing.\nThe Cuneiform script develops out of proto-writing associated with keeping track of goods during the Chalcolithic.\n\n\n\nUnicode's Supplementary Multilingual Plane has a number of code point ranges reserved for prehistoric or early historic numerals:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13983554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13983554", "title": "Pretty Little Mistakes", "text": "Pretty Little Mistakes\n\nPretty Little Mistakes is a book written by Heather McElhatton and published on May 1, 2007 by HarperCollins.\n\nThe novel is written in Second-person narrative and allows the reader to direct where the story will go, similar to the Choose Your Own Adventure book series. The book has more than 150 possible endings. 50% of the endings are \"good\" and 50% are \"bad\". After an introduction to the story, the reader is asked to determine the protagonist's next course of action. After the reader makes a choice, the plot branches out leading to more decisions and eventually multiple possible endings. Endings include the death of the protagonist and/or companions of the main character.\n"}
{"id": "3827490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3827490", "title": "Reciprocal (grammar)", "text": "Reciprocal (grammar)\n\nA reciprocal (abbreviated ) is a linguistic structure that marks a particular kind of relationship between two noun phrases. In a reciprocal construction, each of the participants occupies both the role of agent and patient with respect to the other. For example, the English sentence \"John and Mary cut each other's hair\", contains a reciprocal structure: John cuts Mary's hair, and Mary cuts John's.\n\nMany languages, such as Semitic languages, Altaic languages or Bantu languages, have special reciprocal morphemes in verbs. English does not, and it generally uses \"each other\" or some other phrase to indicate reciprocity. Latin uses \"inter\" and the reflexive pronoun of the subject of the verb: \"inter se\" (between themselves) when the verb is third-person. Most Indo-European languages do not have special markers for reciprocity on verbs, and reciprocal constructions are expressed through reflexivity or other mechanisms. For example, Russian marks reciprocity in intransitive verbs with the suffix -ся (self), which has also reflexive and passive interpretations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2497241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497241", "title": "Renée Friedman", "text": "Renée Friedman\n\nRenée Friedman is an American Egyptologist, primarily known for her work at Nekhen (Hierakonpolis).\nFriedman received her BA from the University of California at Berkeley, where her thesis was on the predynastic Egyptian cemetery at Naga ed Der. She earned her PhD in 1994 for work on predynastic ceramics.\n\nIn 1996, along with Barbara Adams, she began working as co-director of the American Hierakonpolis Expedition, which had been on a 4-year hiatus following the death of the former director Walter Fairservis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39218207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39218207", "title": "Scottish art in the nineteenth century", "text": "Scottish art in the nineteenth century\n\nScottish art in the nineteenth century is the body of visual art made in Scotland, by Scots, or about scottish subjects. This period saw the increasing professionalisation and organisation of art in Scotland. Major institutions founded in this period included the Institution for the Encouragement of the Fine Arts in Scotland, the Royal Scottish Academy of Art, the National Gallery of Scotland, the Scottish National Portrait Gallery and the Glasgow Institute. Art education in Edinburgh focused on the Trustees Drawing Academy of Edinburgh. Glasgow School of Art was founded in 1845 and Grays School of Art in Aberdeen in 1885.\n\nHenry Raeburn, most famous for his intimate portraits of leading figures in Scottish life, was the first significant artist to pursue his entire career in Scotland. His pupils included the brothers William, Archibald and Andrew Robertson. The next generation of portrait painters included David Watson and John Watson Gordon. Significant Glasgow artists included John Graham-Gilbert and Daniel Macnee. David Wilkie emerged as of one of the most influential British artists of the century in a variety of forms. Alexander Nasmyth helped formulate the tradition of Scottish landscape painting, which focused in the mid-nineteenth century on the Highlands. It was taken into the late nineteenth century by artists including Horatio McCulloch, Joseph Farquharson and William McTaggart. Towards the end of the century a number of artist colonies were founded, particularly in coastal communities such as Pittenweem and Kirkudbright. Wilkie was instrumental in the development of genre painting, which was pursued by artists including John Burnet, Alexander George Fraser and Walter Geikie. He also helped inspire the interest in Spanish and oriental painting, continued by William Allan, David Roberts and John Phillip.\n\nSculpture was pioneered in Scotland by Lawrence Macdonald and George Combe. John Steell was the first significant Scottish sculptor to pursue their career in Scotland, gaining attention for his \"Alexander and Bucephasus\" and his design for a statue of Sir Walter Scott incorporated into the author's memorial in Edinburgh. The tradition of Scottish sculpture was boosted by the statues made for the Wallace Monument and by the centenary of Robert Burns' death in 1896. Photography was pioneered in Scotland by Robert Adamson and David Octavius Hill. As Hill & Adamson they formed the first photographic studio in Scotland in 1843 and produced work that is among the first and finest artistic uses of photography. It was subsequently pursued by Thomas Annan, George Washington Wilson and Clementina Hawarden.\n\nThe beginnings of the Arts and Crafts movement in Scotland were in the stained glass revival of the 1850s, pioneered in Edinburgh by James Ballantine and in Glasgow by Daniel Cottier. The Glasgow-born designer and theorist Christopher Dresser was one of the first, and most important, independent designers, a pivotal figure in the Aesthetic Movement and a major contributor to the allied Anglo-Japanese movement. A Celtic Revival, drawing on ancient myths and history to produce art in a modern idiom, was pursued by artists including Anna Traquair, John Duncan, Stewart Carmichael and George Dutch Davidson. In the late nineteenth century developments in Scottish art are associated with the Glasgow School. This was made up of loose groups including the Glasgow Boys, of James Guthrie, Joseph Crawhall, George Henry and E. A. Walton, who were influenced by French Impressionism and Realism. From around 1890 \"The Four\" or the \"Spook School\", was composed of acclaimed architect Charles Rennie Mackintosh, Margaret MacDonald, Frances and Herbert MacNair. They produced a distinctive blend of influences that helped define the Art Nouveau style.\n\nThe Institution for the Encouragement of the Fine Arts in Scotland was founded in 1819 in Edinburgh, to provide an opportunity for artists to present their work. It came to be dominated by a small aristocratic elite and excluded artists from its committee. This led to the founding of the Royal Scottish Academy of Art in 1826. The resulting competition between the two bodies eventually resulted in a de facto merger. In 1835 the now Royal Institution's building on Princess Street, Edinburgh became the Academy's home for exhibitions. The Academy was granted a Royal Charter in 1837 and its members were instrumental in the foundation of the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh, which opened in 1859. The Scottish National Portrait Gallery was founded in 1882. The Glasgow Institute was formed in 1861 to provide exhibiting opportunities in the growing city similar to those in Edinburgh. It opened its own gallery on Sauchiehall Street in 1879. It received a Royal charter in 1896 and became the Royal Glasgow Institute of the Fine Arts.\n\nScotland has had schools of art since the eighteenth century. The Trustees Drawing Academy of Edinburgh had been founded in Edinburgh in 1760. It became the Trustees' School of Art, and placed under auspices of the Science and Art Department in South Kensington in 1858. It was taken over by the Scottish Education Department in 1907. Glasgow School of Art grew from the city's School of Design, founded in 1845. Grays School of Art in Aberdeen was founded in 1885.\n\nHenry Raeburn (1756–1823) was the first significant artist to pursue his entire career in Scotland. Born in Edinburgh and returning there after a trip to Italy in 1786, he is most famous for his intimate portraits of leading figures in Scottish life, going beyond the aristocracy to lawyers, doctors, professors, writers and ministers, adding elements of Romanticism to the Grand Manner tradition of Joshua Reynolds. He became a knight in 1822 and the King's painter and limner in 1823, marking a return to the post being associated with the production of art. His pupils included the brothers William (Alexander) (1772–1841), Archibald (1765–1835) and Andrew Robertson (1777–1845). William and Archibald went on to found the Columbian Academy of Painting in New York, and Andrew to be the leading Scottish miniaturist of his day. Also associated with Radeburn towards the end of his career were John Syme (1795–1861) and Colvin Smith (1795–1875).\n\nOf the generation of painters that followed Raeburn, David Watson (1767–1837) trained with Reynolds in London before returning home to become the first president of the Scottish Academy in 1826. The influence of both Reynolds and Raeburn can be seen in his work, including \"A Girl Drawing\" (1813) and the large group portrait \"The Children of the Earl of Elgin with their Nurse\" (c. 1805). He was followed as president of the academy by his nephew John Watson Gordon (1788–1864), who also studied with Raeburn. He painted portraits of leading cultural figures James Hogg and Lady Nairne as part of a series of portraits commissioned by William Blackwood. From the 1840s his work began to be influenced by early photography, with cool light and muted colours, as can be seen in his full-length portrait of \"Principal Lee\" (1847).\n\nJohn Graham-Gilbert (1794–1866) was born in Glasgow and worked in the city from 1834, playing an important part in the professionalisation of painting there. Other figures to pursue their careers largely in portraiture and based in Glasgow included Daniel Macnee (1806–82). He moved to Edinburgh after his election of President of the Academy in 1876. Other major figures who worked in portraiture included Francis Grant, who became the first Scottish president of the Royal Academy in London, Robert Scott Lauder (1803–69), William Quiller Orchardson (1832–1910) and John Pettie (1839–93). John Zephaniah Bell (1794–1883) was educated in London and was a forerunner of the trend of Parisian education that would become common among Scottish artists of the later nineteenth century. Andrew Geddes (1783–1844) produced some landscapes, but also portraits before he finally moved to London in 1831. David Wilkie (1785–1841) worked mainly in London, and produced the flattering painting of the King George IV in Highland dress commemorating the royal visit to Scotland in 1823 that set off the international fashion for the kilt. He succeeded Raeburn as Royal Limner in 1823 and would emerge of one of the most influential British artists of the century.\n\nAlexander Nasmyth (1758–1840) visited Italy and worked in London, but returned to his native Edinburgh for most of his career. He produced work in a large range of forms, including his portrait of Romantic poet Robert Burns, which depicts him against a dramatic Scottish background, but he is chiefly remembered for his landscapes and is described in the \"Oxford Dictionary of Art\" as \"the founder of the Scottish landscape tradition\". The work of John Knox (1778–1845) continued the theme of landscape, directly linking it with the Romantic works of Walter Scott and he was also among the first artists to take a major interest in depicting the urban landscape of Glasgow. The tradition of Highland landscape painting was continued by figures such as Horatio McCulloch (1806–67), Joseph Farquharson (1846–1935) and William McTaggart (1835–1910). McCulloch's images of places including Glen Coe and Loch Lomond and the Trossachs, became parlour room panoramas that helped to define popular images of Scotland. This was helped by the Queen's declared affection for Scotland, signified by her adoption of Balmoral as a royal retreat. In this period a Scottish \"grand tour\" developed with large number of English artists, including Turner, flocking to the Highlands to paint and draw. From the 1870s Farquharson was a major figure in interpreting Scottish landscapes, specialising in snowscapes and sheep, and using a mobile heated studio in order to capture the conditions from life. In the same period McTaggart emerged as the leading Scottish landscape painter, he has been compared with John Constable and described as the \"Scottish Impressionist\", with free brushwork often depicting stormy seas and moving clouds. The fashion for coastal painting in the later nineteenth century led to the establishment of artist colonies in places such as Pittenweem and Crail in Fife, Cockburnspath in the Borders, Cambuskenneth near Stirling on the River Forth and Kirkudbright in Dumfries and Galloway.\n\nDavid Wilkie became the key figure in the development of British genre art. After a tour of Europe Wilkie he was increasingly influenced by Renaissance and Baroque painting. He became most famous for his anecdotal paintings of Scottish and English life. His work on themes of Scottish everyday life included \"Village Politicians\" (1806), \"The Blind Fiddler\" (1806), \"Distraining for Rent\" (1815) and \"The Penny Wedding\" (1818). His most famous work was \"The Chelsea Pensioners reading the Waterloo Dispatch\", one of the most popular exhibitions in London in 1822. His sketch \"Knox preaching before the Lords of the Congregation\" (1822), dealt with the historic themes that would become a major part of Scottish painting in the second half of the century and he would also be a major influence on oriental painting. Scottish painters influenced by Wilkie included John Burnet (1784–1868), Alexander George Fraser (1785–1865) and Walter Geikie (1795–1837). A younger generation that took genre painting into the late nineteenth century included Erskine Nicol (1825–1904) and the brothers John (1818–1902) and Thomas Faed (1826–1900). Major themes included the Reformation, particularly scenes involving John Knox and Mary Queen of Scots, the Covenanters, especially the \"Killing Time\" of the 1680s, and the Jacobites.\n\nThe expedition to Egypt led by Napoleon in 1798 began the European trend for Orientalism. For British artists the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars (1793–1815) disrupted the established routes to Rome, while military expeditions to the Middle East and Spain created new areas of interest. William Allan (1782–1850) travelled in Russia and Turkey from 1805 to 1822 and painted pictures of Russians and Turkish life. He travelled again to Turkey in the 1830s, which resulted in the production of works including \"The Slave Market: Constantinople\" (1838). David Wilkie also visited the Middle East in search of authentic settings and decor for Biblical paintings. David Roberts (1796–1864) became known for his prolific series of detailed lithograph prints of Egypt and the Near East that he produced during the 1840s from sketches he made during long tours of the region. John Phillip (1817–67) travelled in Europe from 1851. He became known as \"Spanish Philip\" from his scenes of Spanish life, such as \"La Gloria: a Spanish Wake\" (1864).\n\nWhile opportunities and training for painters had made advances by the beginning of the nineteenth century, a Scottish tradition of sculpture was slower to emerge. In the early decades of the century commissions continued to be given to English artists, including Samuel Joseph (1791–1850), who was working in Edinburgh in 1821–29 and was a founding member of the Scottish Academy. Thomas Campbell (c. 1790–1858) studied in London and settled in Rome, where he received commissions from visiting British subjects before returning to London in 1830. His works in Scotland included the Hopetoun Memorial (1824–34) in Edinburgh. Lawrence Macdonald (1799–1878) was able to study at the Trustees Academy in Edinburgh and then Rome. He returned to Edinburgh from 1827, but moved back to Rome in 1832, where he worked for the rest of his life. His most significant works included his busts of General David Baird and of the phrenologist George Combe (c. 1830).\n\nThe first significant Scottish sculptor to pursue their career in Scotland was John Steell (1804–91). He trained at the Trustee's Academy and in Rome and was elected to the Scottish Academy in 1830 while still in his twenties. His first work to gain significant public attention was his \"Alexander and Bucephasus\". His 1832 design for a statue of Sir Water Scott was incorporated into the author's memorial in Edinburgh. It marked the beginnings of a national school of sculpture based around major figures from Scottish culture and Scottish and British history. The tradition of Scottish sculpture was taken forward by artists such as Patric Park (1811–55), Alexander Handyside Ritchie (1804–70) and William Calder Marshall (1813–94). This reached fruition in the next generation of sculptors including William Brodie (1815–81), Amelia Hill (1820–1904) and Steell's apprentice David Watson Stevenson (1842–1904). Stevenson contributed the statue of William Wallace on the exterior of the Wallace Monument and many of the busts in the gallery of heroes inside, which included Robert the Bruce, John Knox, Walter Scott, Robert Burns, James Watt and Thomas Carlyle. Public sculpture was boosted by the centenary of Burns' death in 1896. Stevenson produced a statue of the poet in Leith. Hill produced one for Dumfries. John Steell produced a statue for Central Park in New York, versions of which were made for Dundee, London and Dunedin. Statues of Burns and Scott were produced in areas of Scottish settlement, particularly in North America and Australia.\n\nAccording to photo historian David Burn \"there is a good case to be made for the proposition that the greatest contribution that Scotland has made to the visual arts, possibly to the arts as a whole, is in the art of photography\". In the early nineteenth century Scottish scientists James Clerk Maxwell and David Brewster played a major part in the development of the techniques of photography. Pioneering photographers included chemist Robert Adamson (1821–48) and artist David Octavius Hill (1821–48), who as Hill & Adamson formed the first photographic studio in Scotland at Rock House in Edinburgh in 1843. Their output of around 3,000 calotype images in four years are considered some of the first and finest artistic uses of photography. \n\nAdamson trained Thomas Roger (1833–88) of St. Andrews, who was one of the first commercial photographers and beside commercial portraits, produced many genre style compositions. Other pioneers included Thomas Annan (1829–87), who took portraits and landscapes, and whose photographs of the Glasgow slums were among the first to use the medium as a social record. his son James Craig Annan (1864–1946) also popularised the work of Hill & Adamson in the US and worked with American photographic pioneer Alfred Stieglitz (1864–1946). Both pioneered the more stable photogravure process. Other important figures included Thomas Keith (1827–95), one of the first architectural photographers. George Washington Wilson (1823–93) pioneered instant photography and landscape photography, becoming \"photographer to the Queen\" and his Aberdeen company was the largest producer of topographical prints by 1880. Clementina Hawarden (1822–65) produced posed portraits that were among the first in a tradition of female photography. In the 1850s amateur photographer Mary Jane Matherson took her camera outside to create compositions that can be described as genre art, including \"A Picnic in the Glen\" and \"An Angler at Rest\".\n\nScottish artists of the mid-nineteenth century were influenced by the painters of the Nazarene movement, a group of German artists based in Rome, who attempted to revive the spirituality of Medieval and Early Renaissance art. They were also influenced by, and influenced, the work of the English Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, who rejected the formalism of Mannerist painting after Raphael. David Scott's (1806–49) learnt the art of fresco painting from the Nazarenes. He painted historical works, such as \"The Poles did nobly and the Russian General Craved and Armistice to bury his Dead\" (1832) and \"Traitor's Gate\" (1842). His most ambitious historical work was the triptych \"Sir William Wallace, Scottish Wars: the Spear and English War: the Bow\" (1843). He also produced etchings for versions of Coleridge's \"Ancient Mariner\", Bunyan's \"Pilgrim's Progress\" and J. P. Nichol's \"Architecture of the Heavens\" (1850). Because of this early death he was known to, and admired by, the Pre-Raphaelites mainly through his brother William Bell Scott (1811–90), who became a close friend of founding member D. G. Rossetti. His most famous work, \"Iron and Coal\" was one of the most popular Victorian images and one of the few to fulfill the Pre-Raphaelite ambition to depict the modern world.\nThe figure in Scottish art most associated with the Pre-Raphaelites was the Aberdeen-born William Dyce (1806–64). He met the Nazarenes while in Italy and his work moved towards their \"early Christian\" art, as can be seen in his \"Madonna and Child\" (1848). Dyce befriended the young Pre-Raphaelites in London and introduced their work to John Ruskin. His later work was Pre-Raphaelite in its spirituality, as can be seen in his \"The Man of Sorrows\" and \"David in the Wilderness\" (both 1860). His \"Pegwell Bay: a Recollection of October 5th 1858\" has been described as \"the archetypal pre-Raphaelite landscape\". Joseph Noel Paton (1821–1901) studied at the Royal Academy schools in London, where he became a friend of John Everett Millais and he subsequently followed him into Pre-Raphaelitism, producing pictures that stressed detail and melodrama such as \"The Bludie Tryst\" (1855). His later paintings, like those of Millais, have been criticised for descending into popular sentimentality. Also influenced by Millais was James Archer (1823–1904) and whose work includes \"Summertime, Gloucestershire\" (1860) and who from 1861 began a series of Arthurian-based paintings including \"La Morte d'Arthur\" and \"Sir Lancelot and Queen Guinevere\".\n\nThe beginnings of the Arts and Crafts movement in Scotland were in the stained glass revival of the 1850s, pioneered by James Ballantine (1808–77). His major works included the great west window of Dunfermline Abbey and the scheme for St. Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh. In Glasgow it was pioneered by Daniel Cottier (1838–91), who had probably studied with Ballantine, and was directly influenced by William Morris, Ford Madox Brown and John Ruskin. His key works included the \"Baptism of Christ\" in Paisley Abbey (c. 1880). Among his followers were Stephen Adam and his son of the same name. The Glasgow-born designer and theorist Christopher Dresser (1834–1904) was one of the first, and most important, independent designers, a pivotal figure in the Aesthetic Movement and a major contributor to the allied Anglo-Japanese movement. He produced carpets, ceramics, furniture, glass, graphics, metalwork, including silver and electroplate, including his angular teapot of 1879.\n\nThe formation of the Edinburgh Social Union in 1885, which included a number of significant figures in the Arts and Craft and Aesthetic movements, became part of an attempt to facilitate a Celtic Revival, similar to that taking place in contemporaneous Ireland, drawing on ancient myths and history to produce art in a modern idiom. Key figures were the philosopher, sociologist, town planner and writer Patrick Geddes (1854–1932), the architect and designer Robert Lorimer (1864–1929) and stained-glass artist Douglas Strachan (1875–1950). Geddes established an informal college of tenement flats for artists at Ramsay Garden on Castle Hill in Edinburgh in the 1890s. Among the figures involved with the movement were Anna Traquair (1852–1936), who was commissioned by the Union to paint murals in the Mortuary Chapel of the Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh (1885–86 and 1896–98) and also worked in metal, illumination, illustration, embroidery and book binding.\n\nThe most significant exponent of the revival was Dundee-born John Duncan (1866–1945), who was also influenced by Italian Renaissance art and French Symbolism. Among his most influential works are his paintings of Celtic subjects \"Tristan and Iseult\" (1912) and \"St Bride\" (1913). Other Dundee Symbolists included Stewart Carmichael (1879–1901) and George Dutch Davidson (1869–1950). Duncan was a major contributor to Geddes' magazine \"The Evergreen\". Other major contributors included the Japanese-influenced Robert Burns (1860–1941), E. A. Hornel (1864–1933) and Duncan's student Helen Hay (fl. 1895–1953).\n\nDevelopments in late nineteenth-century Scottish art are associated with the Glasgow School, a term that is used for a number of loose groups based around the city. The first and largest group, active from about 1880, were the Glasgow Boys, including James Guthrie (1859–1930), Joseph Crawhall (1861–1913), George Henry (1858–1943) and E. A. Walton (1860–1922). They reacted against the commercialism and sentimentality of earlier artists, particularly the work associated with Royal Academy. They were particularly influenced by London-based US artist James Abbott McNeill Whistler and French painting, incorporated elements of impressionism and realism into their work. They have been credited with rejuvenating Scottish art and with making Glasgow a major cultural centre.\n\nA slightly later grouping, active from about 1890 and known as \"The Four\" or the \"Spook School\", was composed of acclaimed architect and artist Charles Rennie Mackintosh (1868–1928), his wife the painter and glass artist Margaret MacDonald (1865–1933), her sister the artist Frances (1873–1921), and her husband, the artist and teacher Herbert MacNair (1868–1955). They produced a distinctive blend of influences, including the Celtic Revival, the Arts and Crafts Movement, and Japonisme, which found favour throughout the modern art world of continental Europe and helped define the Art Nouveau style that would come to prominence in the early twentieth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1742172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742172", "title": "Société des Artistes Indépendants", "text": "Société des Artistes Indépendants\n\nThe Société des Artistes Indépendants (\"Society of Independent Artists\"), Salon des Indépendants was formed in Paris on 29 July 1884. The association began with the organization of massive exhibitions in Paris, choosing the slogan \"sans jury ni récompense\" (\"without jury nor reward\"). Albert Dubois-Pillet, Odilon Redon, Georges Seurat and Paul Signac were among its founders. For the following three decades their annual exhibitions set the trends in art of the early 20th century, along with the Salon d'Automne. This is where artworks were often first displayed and widely discussed. World War I brought a closure to the salon, though the \"Artistes Indépendants\" remained active. Since 1920, the headquarters is located in the vast basements of the Grand Palais (next door to the \"Société des Artistes Français\", the \"Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts\", the Société du Salon d'Automne, and others).\n\nThe Salon des Indépendants (Salon des Artistes Indépendants) is an annual independent art exhibition aimed at a large audience that takes place in Paris. It was established in response to the rigid traditionalism of the official government-sponsored Salon. Since the first exhibition of 1884, at the Pavilion de la ville de Paris (Champs-Élysées), the organizing Société des Artistes Indépendants has vowed to bring together the works of artists claiming a certain independence in their art. The event is characterized by the absence of both awards and a selection jury. There are however placement or hanging committees. In contrast to the Salon d'Automne, which takes place in Paris during autumn months, the Indépendants is held during the springtime, inspiring artistic production during winter months, as artists prepare for the show. Several important dates have marked the history of the salon.\n\nDuring the Second Empire, artists not backed by the official \"Académie de peinture et de sculpture\" in charge of the exhibits at the annual \"Salon\" or without support supplied by actual political constellations had little chance to advance. From year to year the number of artists working in Paris, the number of artists submitting works to the official \"Salon\" and the number of works refused by the jury increased, but neither the Second Empire nor the Third Republic found an answer to this situation.\n\nFor years, the artists had counted on official support. In 1884, finally, the artists began to organise themselves, and a \"Group of independent artists\" was authorised by the Ministry of Fine Arts to arrange an exhibition, while the City of Paris agreed to supply rooms for the presentation. So, from May 15 through July 15, the first \"free\" exhibition of contemporary art showed more than 5000 works by more than 400 artists.\n\nAlthough sustained by Mesureur, deputy chairman of the Council of Paris and Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of France, by Frédéric Hattat, chairman of the Fine Art commission in the same council, by Albert Dubois-Pillet, commanding the Republican Guard, member of the Grand Orient de France, the beginning of the Company, considered as a nest of revolutionaries, were difficult.\n\nJune 11, 1884, Maître Coursault, notary at Montmorency, Val-d'Oise, officially confirmed the establishment of the \"Société\"\n\nArticle 1 of the organization's statutes reads,\n\nMembers of the \"Groupe\" challenged this foundation and succeeded to have an exhibition arranged \"for the victims of the recent cholera epidemic\", inaugurated December 1, 1884, by Lucien Boué, President of the Paris City Council. But financially the result was a catastrophe. Nevertheless, in spring 1885, the \"Groupe\" organised its next exhibition, this time with some success.\n\nThe Salon des Indépendants arose through the need by artists to present their works to the general public independently, rather than through the official selective method of the \"Salon\" (created by Louis XIV). A small collective of innovative artists—Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Camille Pissarro along with Albert Dubois-Pillet, Odilon Redon, Georges Seurat, Paul Signac—created the Salon des Indépendants. The right to present their works to the public with no restrictions was their only condition. Article no. 1 of the By-laws of the organization: \"The purpose of Société des Artistes Indépendants—based on the principle of abolishing admission jury—is to allow the artists to present their works to public judgement with complete freedom\".\n\nOn 1 December 1884, Lucien Boué, President of the Paris City Council, opened the first Salon des Artistes Indépendants at the Palais Polychrome (near the Palais de l'Industrie). The Salon became the refuge for artworks deemed unacceptable by the traditional Salon. Among the works exhibited were Seurat's \"La baignade à Asnières\" Signac's \"Le Pont d'Austerlitz\", and works of Henri-Edmond Cross, Odilon Redon, Albert Dubois-Pillet, Louis Valtat, Armand Guillaumin, Charles Angrand, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, and Vincent van Gogh.\n\nThe proceeds of the first show were earmarked for the victims of cholera. The second exhibition was held in 1886 in a temporary building in the Tuileries Garden with 200 paintings exhibited. By 1905 Henri Rousseau, Pierre Bonnard, Jean Metzinger and Henri Matisse had exhibited there. During the period between 1890 and 1914 known as \"La Belle Époque\" practically all of the artists associated with modernism and the avant-garde exhibited at the Indépendants. The works exhibited ranged in style from Realist to post-Impressionist, Nabis, Symbolist, Neo-impressionist/Divisionist, Fauve, Expressionist, Cubist and Abstract art.\n\nThe submission payment was 10 francs for four works. In 1906 ten works could be submitted for 25 francs and from 1909 only two. In 1901 more than thousand paintings were shown. 2,395 works were exhibited in 1904, and 1905, 4,269 works by 669 artists. By 1908 six thousand works were displayed at the Indépendants. In 1910 the number of artists increased to 1,182, rising progressively to 2,175 by 1930. In 1926 the critic Louis Vauxcelles estimated that only 100 of the 3,726 artworks were of any value.\n\nIn 1895 and 1897 the Salon des Indépendants was held at the (Champ de Mars). Between 1901 and 1907, the exhibition was held in the Grandes Serres de la Ville de Paris (Cours-la-Reine, Paris), also called \"Grande Serre de l'Alma\", built for the Exposition Universelle of 1900. From 1920 the exhibitions were held at the Grand Palais des Champs-Elysées in Paris.\n\nIn 1902 the Indépendants featured a retrospective of works by Toulouse-Lautrec. Jean Metzinger sent three paintings to the Salon des Indépendants in 1903, and subsequently moved to Paris with the proceeds from their sale. He again exhibiting several paintings, this time along with Robert Delaunay, at the Indépendants of 1904, where Cross presented his Venice series. In 1905 the salon featured retrospectives of works by Seurat and Vincent van Gogh.\n\nFrom 24 March to 30 April, the burgeoning of Fauvism was visible at the Indépendants, prior to the infamous Salon d'Automne exhibition of 1905 which historically marks the birth of the term Fauvism, after critic Louis Vauxcelles described their show of work with the phrase \"Donatello chez les fauves\" (\"Donatello among the wild beasts\"), contrasting the paintings with a Renaissance-style sculpture that shared the room with them.\n\nAt the 1905 Indépendants Henri Matisse exhibited with Albert Marquet, Jean Puy, Henri Manguin, Othon Friesz, Raoul Dufy, Kees van Dongen, André Derain, Maurice de Vlaminck, Charles Camoin and Jean Metzinger. This exhibition was reviewed by Vauxcelles in Gil Blas on 4, 18 and 23 March 1905.\n\nMatisse exhibited the proto-Fauve painting \"Luxe, Calme et Volupté\". In the Divisionist technique and brightly colored, it was painted in 1904, after a summer spent working in St. Tropez on the French Riviera alongside the neo-Impressionist painters Paul Signac and Henri-Edmond Cross. The painting is Matisse's most important work in which he used the Divisionist technique advocated by Signac, which Matisse had first adopted after reading Signac's essay, \"D'Eugène Delacroix au Néo-impressionisme\" in 1898. Signac purchased the work after the 1905 Salon des Indépendants.\n\nMatisse is in charge of the hanging committee, assisted by Metzinger, Bonnard, Camoin, Laprade Luce, Manguin, Marquet, Puy and Vallotton.\n\nAt the Salon des Indépendants of 1906 the elected members of the hanging committee included Matisse, Signac and Metzinger. Following the Salon d'Automne of 1905 which marked the beginning of Fauvism, the Salon des Indépendants of 1906 marked the first time all the Fauves would exhibit together. The centerpiece of the exhibition was Matisse's monumental \"Le Bonheur de Vivre (The Joy of Life)\". The triangular composition is closely related to Cézanne's Bathers; a series that would soon become a source of inspiration for Picasso's \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\". Critics were horrified by the flatness, bright colors, eclectic style and mixed technique of \"Le Bonheur de Vivre\".\n\nAccording to Metzinger's memoirs, it was at the 1906 Salon des Indépendants that he met Albert Gleizes and visited his studio in Courbevoie several days later. In 1907, at Max Jacob's place, Metzinger met Guillaume Krotowsky, who already signed his works Guillaume Apollinaire.\n\nIn 1906 Metzinger had acquired enough prestige to be elected to the hanging committee of the Salon des Indépendants, in addition to his entry of eight works. He formed a close friendship at this time with Robert Delaunay, with whom he would share an exhibition at Berthe Weill's gallery early in 1907. The two of them were singled out by one critic (Louis Vauxcelles) in 1907 as Divisionists who used large, mosaic-like 'cubes' to construct small but highly symbolic compositions.\n\nIn the spring of 1906 Georges Braque exhibited his works for the first time at the Salon des Indépendants. At the exhibition of 1907, held from 20 March to 30 April, six paintings by Braque were exhibited. Five were purchased directly at the Salon des Indépendants by the art dealer Wilhelm Uhde for a total price of 505 FF. The sixth work was presumably bought by the art dealer Kahnweiler. It was around this time that Braque first met Kahnweiler and was introduced to Picasso by Guillaume Apollinaire. Braque's works were still Fauve in nature. It wasn't until the autumn of 1907 at L’Estaque that Braque began his transition away from bright hues to more subdued colors, possibly as a result of the memorial exhibition of Cézanne’s work at the Salon d'Automne of 1907.\nAndré Derain exhibited his \"Dancer at Le Rat Mort\", painted during the winter of 1906, and his large \"Bathers\" (Museum of Modern Art, New York) of early 1907. No longer truly Fauve, this work is close to Cézanne in its angular form and tonal modeling.\nMatisse's \"Blue Nude (Souvenir de Biskra)\" also appeared at the 1907 Indépendants, entitled \"Tableau no. III\". Vauxcelles writes on the topic of \"Nu bleu\":\n\nI admit to not understanding. An ugly nude woman is stretched out upon grass of an opaque blue under the palm trees... This is an artistic effect tending toward the abstract that escapes me completely. (Vauxcelles, Gil Blas, 20 March 1907)\n\n\"Blue Nude\" would later create a sensation at the Armory Show of 1913 in New York City. The painting, already a certain distance from Fauvism, was deemed so ugly students burned it in effigy at the 1913 Armory Show in Chicago, where it had toured from New York.\n\nIn addition to the works of Matisse, Derain and Braque, the Indépendants of 1907 included six works (each) by Vlaminck, Dufy, Metzinger, Delaunay, Camoin, Herbin, Puy, and Valtat, and three by Marquet.\n\nVaucelles described this group of 'Fauves':\n\nA movement I consider dangerous (despite the great sympathy I have for its perpetrators) is taking shape among a small clan of youngsters. A chapel has been established, two haughty priests officiating. MM Derain and Matisse; a few dozen innocent catechumens have received their baptism. Their dogma amounts to a wavering schematicism that proscribes modeling and volumes in the name of I-don't-know-what pictorial abstraction. This new religion hardly appeals to me. I don't believe in this Renaissance... M. Matisse, fauve-in-chief; M. Derain, fauve deputy; MM. Othon Friesz and Dufy, fauves in attendance... and M. Delaunay (a fourteen-year-old-pupil of M. Metzinger...), infantile fauvelet. (Vauxcelles, Gil Blas, 20 March 1907)\nThe Fauvism of Matisse and Derain was virtually over by the spring of the 1907 Indépendants. And by the Salon d'Automne of 1907 it had ended for many others as well. The shift from bright pure colors loosely applied to the canvas gave way to a more calculated geometric approach. The priority of simplified form began to overtake the representational aspect of the works. The simplification of representational form gave way to a new complexity; the subject matter of the paintings progressively became dominated by a network of interconnected geometric planes, the distinction between foreground and background no longer sharply delineated, and the depth of field limited.\n\nMany of Cézanne's paintings had been exhibited at the Salon d'Automne of 1904, 1905 and 1906. After Cézanne died in 1906, his paintings were exhibited in Paris in the form of a retrospective at the Salon d'Automne of 1907, greatly attracting interest and affecting the direction taken by the avant-garde artists in Paris prior to the advent of Cubism. Cézanne's explorations of geometric simplification and optical phenomena inspired not just Matisse, Derain, Braque and Metzinger, but the other artists who exhibited earlier with the Fauves. Those who had not transited through a Fauve stage, such as Picasso, experimented, too, with the complex fracturing of form. Cézanne had thus sparked a wholesale transformation in the area of artistic investigation that would profoundly affect the development modern art of the 20th century.\n\nSignac becomes president of the 24th Salon des Indépendants. At the exhibition of 1908, held 20 March through 2 May, a painting by Braque strikes Apollinaire by its originality. Though not listed in the catalog, it was described in \"L'Intransigeant\". In his review published in \"La Revue des lettres et des arts\" (1 May 1908) Apollinaire claims that Braque's work is the most original effort presented at the salon. Even in the absence of Matisse and Picasso, Vauxcelles, in Gil Blas (20 March 1908) refers to the most innovative artists of the exposition as 'barbarous schematizers'... who want to create an 'abstract art'.\n\nThis exhibition was reviewed in the \"New York Herald\" 20 March 1908; by Vauxcelles in \"Gil Blas\" 20 March 1908; by C. Le Senne in \"Le Courrier du Soir\", 22 March 1908; and by Maurice Denis, in \"La Grande revue\", 10 April 1908.\n\nIn excess of 1,314 artists exhibit 6,701 works. Matisse does not submit any works.\n\nAfter this salon, the writer Gelett Burgess begins a series of interviews with the avant-garde working currently in Paris and surrounding banlieues. These interviews and Burgess' impressions of the works produced are published in \"Architectural Record\", May 1910, at the heart of the proto-Cubist period.\n\nGelett Burgess writes in \"The Wild Men of Paris\":\n\n\"Though the school was new to me, it was already an old story in Paris. It had been a nine-days’ wonder. Violent discussions had raged over it; it had taken its place as a revolt and held it, despite the fulmination of critics and the contempt of academicians. The school was increasing in numbers, in importance. By many it was taken seriously. At first, the beginners had been called \"The Invertebrates.\" In the Salon of 1905 they were named \"The Incoherents.\" But by 1906, when they grew more perfervid, more audacious, more crazed with theories, they received their present appellation of \"Les Fauves\"—the Wild Beasts. And so, and so, a-hunting I would go!\"<br><br>\n\n\"It was Matisse who took the first step into the undiscovered land of the ugly. Matisse himself, serious, plaintive, a conscientious experimenter, whose works are but studies in expression, who is concerned at present with but the working out of the theory of simplicity, denies all responsibility for the excesses of his unwelcome disciples.\"<br><br>\n\n\"Picasso, keen as a whip, spirited as a devil, mad as a hatter, runs to his studio and contrives a huge nude woman composed entirely of triangles, and presents it in triumph. What wonder Matisse shakes his head and does not smile! He chats thoughtfully of the \"Harmony and volume\" and \"architectural values,\" and wild Braque climbs to his attic and builds an architectural monster which he names Woman, with balanced masses and parts, with openings and columnar legs and cornices. Matisse praises the direct appeal to instinct of the African wood images, and even a sober Dérain, a co-experimenter, loses his head, moulds a neolithic man into a solid cube, creates a woman of spheres, stretches a cat out into a cylinder, and paints it red and yellow!\"<br><br>\n\n\"Metzinger once did gorgeous mosaics of pure pigment, each little square of color not quite touching the next, so that an effect of vibrant light should result. He painted exquisite compositions of cloud and cliff and sea; he painted women and made them fair, even as the women upon the boulevards fair. But now, translated into the idiom of subjective beauty, into this strange Neo-Classic language, those same women, redrawn, appear in stiff, crude, nervous lines in patches of fierce color.\"\n\nAccording to John Golding's influential history of Cubism published in 1959, it was at the Salon des Indépendants of 1909, held 25 March through 2 May, that one of the first Cubist painting was exhibited to the public: \"Little Harbor in Normandy (Petit port en Normandie)\", no. 215, entitled \"Paysage\", by Georges Braque (Art Institute of Chicago). On 25 March 1909, Louis Vauxcelles qualifies the works of Braque (Bracke, sic) exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants as \"bizarreries cubiques\" (cubic oddities). In Room 16 hung works by Derain, Dufy, Friesz, Laprade, Matisse, Jean Puy, Rouault and Vlaminck.\n\nThe evolution towards a more linear style with simplified forms continues with greater emphasis on clear geometric principles (derived from Cézanne) not solely visible in the works of Braque, but too in the works of Metzinger, Gleizes, Le Fauconnier and Delaunay (Picasso being absent from the salons).\n\nGleizes exhibits in the Salon des Indépendants for the first time: \"Portrait de René Arcos\" and \"L'Arbre\", two paintings in which the emphasis on simplified geometric form overwhelms to a large extent the representational interest of the painting. The same tendency is evident in Metzinger's \"Portrait of Apollinaire\" exhibited in the same salon. According to Apollinaire this was the 'first Cubist portrait'. Apollinaire himself has pointed out in his book \"The Cubist Painters\" (1913), that Metzinger, following Picasso and Braque, was chronologically the third Cubist artist.\nAccording to Gleizes's memoirs, Alexandre Mercereau introduces him to Metzinger, but only after the Salon d'Automne do they become seriously interested in each other's work.\n\nLouis Vauxcelles, in his review of the 26th Salon des Indépendants (1910), made a passing and imprecise reference to Metzinger, Gleizes, Delaunay, Léger and Le Fauconnier, as \"ignorant geometers, reducing the human body, the site, to pallid cubes.\"\n\nThe work of Metzinger, Le Fauconnier and Robert Delaunay were exhibited together. Le Fauconnier showed the geometrically simplified \"Ploumanac'h\" landscapes: \"Le Ravin\" and \"Village dans les Montagne\", along with \"Femme à l'éventail\" and \"Portrait of Maroussia\". In the same hall hung the works of Matisse, Vlaminck, Dufy, Laurencin, van Dongen and Henri Rousseau.\nApollinaire wrote in the daily newspaper \"L'Intransigeant\", which had a circulation of about 50,000, about the exhibition that consisted of close to 6000 paintings.\n\nRemarkably, even the presence of a painting made by a donkey named Lolo passed by practically unnoticed. The painting was entitled \"\" presented by the artist , the 'excessivist' from Genoa was exhibited at the 1910 Salon des Indépendants. Boronali was in fact the Parisian donkey (Lolo), who made the painting with his tail. (Cf. Warnod, 1910; Weiss, 1994, pp. 149–151, 304.) It is suspected that Lolo belonged to Frédéric Gérard (« le père Frédé »), owner of the cabaret Lapin Agile in la butte Montmartre. Roland Dorgelès and two friends, et Jules Depaquit, attached a paint brush to the tail of the animal. The donkey did the rest. The painting sold for 400FF (equal to 1,257 Euros today) and was donated by Dorgelès to the \"Orphelinat des Arts\". The painting forms part of the permanent collection at \"l'Espace culturel Paul Bédu\" (Milly-la-Forêt).\n\nThe newly formed Montparnasse group (who held meetings not just at Le Fauconnier's studio, but at the cafés \"Le Dôme, , , Le Select\", and \"Café de la Rotonde\") together with other young painters who also want to emphasise a research into form (as opposed to color) take over the hanging committee of the Salon des Indépendants ensuring that the works of painters now dubbed 'Cubists' would be shown together. Gleizes, Metzinger, Le Fauconnier, Delaunay, Léger and Marie Laurencin (at the request of Apollinaire) are shown together in Room 41.\n\nThe result of the group show is a major scandal. Even though the pictures shown are still conventional representations that generally observe the rules of classical perspective (according to Gleizes), the public is outraged by the representation of subject matter as cones, cubes and spheres, resulting in the obscurity of the subject matter. The predominance of sharp geometrical faceting and the fact that a group of artists are all working in similar directions, gives rise to the term 'Cubism'. Although this and similar terms have been used before in artistic circles (usually in relation to the works of Metzinger, Delaunay and Braque), this is the first time the use of the term becomes widespread.\n\nThe term 'Cubism' is employed in June 1911 by Apollinaire, speaking in the context of an exhibition in Brussels which includes works by Gleizes, Delaunay, Léger, and Le Fauconnier. During the summer, Gleizes is in close contact with Metzinger, who has recently moved to Meudon. Both are discontent with the conventional perspective mechanism. They have long conversations about the nature of form and perception. They agree that traditional painting gives a static and incomplete idea of the subject as experienced in life. Things, they conclude, are in fact dynamic, observed to move, are seen from different angles and can be captured at successive moments in time.\n\nAnother Cubist scandal is produced several months later at the Salon d'Automne, where the Indépendants exhibitors develop relations with the Duchamp brothers, Jacques Villon, Raymond Duchamp-Villon and Marcel Duchamp. The studios of Jacques Villon and Raymond Duchamp-Villon at 7, rue Lemaître, become, together with Gleizes' studio at Courbevoie, regular meeting places for the newly formed \"Groupe de Puteaux\" (soon to exhibit under the name Section d'Or). František Kupka, the Czech painter interested in non-representational painting based on analogies with music and the progressive abstraction of a subject in motion, joins the discussions.\n\nIn the spring of 1911 the cubists made sure they were shown together, infiltrating the placement committee. That Le Fauconnier was the secretary of the salon facilitated the goal of hanging their works together. Until then, works in alphabetical order of the artists names. In room 41 hung works by Metzinger, Gleizes, Léger, Delaunay, Le Fauconnier and Archipenko. In room 43 hung works by André Lhote, Roger de La Fresnaye, André Dunoyer de Segonzac, Luc-Albert Moreau and André Mare.\n\nThis exhibition involved more than 6,400 paintings. In room 42 was a retrospective exhibition of Henri (Le Douanier) Rousseau, who died 2 September 1910. Articles and reviews were numerous and extensive in sheer words employed; including in Gil Blas, Comoedia, Excelsior, Action, L'Oeuvre, and Cri de Paris. Apollinaire wrote a long review in the 20 April 1911 issue of L'Intransigeant.\n\nHenri Le Fauconnier's \"Abundance\", 1910-11 (Haags Gemeentemuseum, Den Haag), partly due to its large size and partly to the treatment of its subject matter, was an eye-catcher, causing a sensation. This painting was soon bought by the Dutchman art critic and painter Conrad Kickert (1882-1965), who was secretary of the Contemporary Art Society (). In 1934 he donated the painting to the Gemeentemuseum, Den Haag.\n\nThe Salon des Indépendants transpired in Paris from 20 March to 16 May 1912. This massive exhibition occurred exactly one year after Metzinger, Gleizes, Le Fauconnier, Delaunay, Léger and Laurencin were shown together in Room 41 of the 1911 Salon des Indépendants, which provoked the scandal out of which Cubism emerged and spread throughout Paris. Its wide-ranging repercussions were felt in Germany, Holland, Italy, Russia, Spain and elsewhere (influencing Futurism, Suprematism, Constructivism, De Stijl and so on). Just five months prior to this show another polemic developed at the Salon d'Automne of 1912. Originating in \"Salle XI\" where the Cubists exhibited their works, this quarrel involved both the French and non-French avant-garde artists. On 3 December 1912 the polemic reached the Chambre des députés and was debated at the \"Assemblée Nationale\". At stake was more than just the future of public funding for exhibitions that included Cubist art. Le Fauconnier, Gleizes, Léger, Metzinger and Archipenko formed the core of the hanging committee at the 1912 Indépendants. The common hall, room 20, in which the Cubists placed themselves became the nucleus of the exhibition.c\n\nAt the 1912 Salon des Indépendants Albert Gleizes exhibited \"Les Baigneuses (The Bathers)\" (no. 1347) — Marcel Duchamp's \"Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2\" was listed in the catalogue (n. 1001) but was withdrawn prior to the exhibition — Roger de La Fresnaye exhibited \"Artillerie\" (no. 1235) — Robert Delaunay showed his monumental \"Ville de Paris\" (no. 868) — Jean Metzinger exhibited \"La Femme au Cheval (Woman with a horse)\" and \"Le Port\" — Fernand Léger showed \"La Noce\" — Henri Le Fauconnier, \"Le Chasseur (The Huntsman)\" — and the newcomer Juan Gris exhibited his \"Portrait of Picasso\".\n\nThe art critic Olivier-Hourcade writes of this exhibition in 1912 and its relation to the creation of a new French school: 'Metzinger with his \"Port\", Delaunay with \"Paris\", Gleizes with his \"Baigneuses, are close to this real and magnificent result, this victory comes from several centuries: the creation of a school of painting, 'French' and absolutely independent.\n\n's reviewed the 1912 Salon des Indépendants in the March–April 1912 issue of La Revue de France et des Pays, noting Metzinger's 'refined choice of colors' and the 'precious rarity' of the painting's 'matière'. André Salmon too, in his review, noted Metzinger's 'refined use of color' in \"La Femme au Cheval\" and praised its 'French grace', while noting Metzinger 'illuminated a cubist figure with the virtues of a smile'.\n\nGleizes, on the other hand, would write in 1913 of the Cubist movements continual evolution:\nAnd regarding the reception received by the Cubists at the Salon des Indépendants and Salon d'Automne Gleizes writes:\n\nThe Salon des Indépendants was held March 9 through 18 May, the Cubist works were shown in room 46. Jean Metzinger exhibited his large \"L'Oiseau bleu\" — Albert Gleizes, Albert Gleizes. \"Les Joueurs de football (Football Players)\" 1912-13, National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C — Robert Delaunay \"The Cardiff Team (L'équipe de Cardiff )\" 1913, Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven — Fernand Léger, \"Le modèle nu dans l'atelier (Nude Model In The Studio)\" 1912-13, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York — Juan Gris, \"L'Homme dans le Café (Man in Café)\" 1912, Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nIn room 45 hung the works of Robert Delaunay, Sonia Delaunay, František Kupka, Morgan Russell and Macdonald-Wright. This was the first exhibition where Orphism and Synchromism were emphatically present. Apollinaire in \"L'Intransigeant\" mentioned la Salle hollandaise (room 43), which included Jacoba van Heemskerck, Piet Mondrian, Otto van Rees, Jan Sluyters en Leo Gestel and Lodewijk Schelfhout.\n\nThe 1914 exhibition, held from 1 March to 30 April, was composed of many Orphist works of large dimension and took place in one of the largest rooms on the ground floor: Robert and Sonia Delaunay, Patrick Henry Bruce and Arthur Burdett Frost were largely represented.\n\nDuring the First World War there were no exhibitions. After the war, however, there was a revival of Cubism, led by Gleizes and others, which included exhibitions at Léonce Rosenberg's \"Galerie l'Effort Moderne\" and a revival of the Salon de la Section d'Or.\n\nIn an attempt to regain their pre-war status at the forefront of the avant-garde, and faced with the possibility of being overthrown by Dada, the cubists regrouped. Their first chance to exhibit together presented itself at the Salon des Indépendants of 1920. But the fight wasn't going to be easy. Opening on 28 January, over three thousand works were display, a large number of which were Cubist paintings. For the first time the exhibition took place at the Grand Palais des Champs-Elysées. Picasso was nowhere to be seen, but others were, such as Archipenko, Braque, Csaky, Gleizes, Gris, Hayden, Herbin, Léger, Lhote, Lipchitz, Metzinger, Severini and Survage.\n\nThe most outrageous Dada eruption to date transpired at the Salon des Indépendants of 1920. The Dadaist saw the Indépendants as decisive in the push to the top of the avant-garde food chain of the Parisian art scene. The plan was as cunning as it was devious: Tristan Tzara and André Breton rented an auditorium at the Grand Palais. A group guided by Tzara distributed flyers and posters saying that Charlie Chaplin would appear \"in the flesh\" on February 5. The crowd heckled when Chaplin (not even aware of the event) never showed up, and Tzara was ready: his group hurled insults back at the crowd from the stage.\n\nThe renown literary figure André Gide present in the audience, fooled as the others, described the happening: \"Some young people, solemn, stilted, tied up in knots, got up on the platform and as a chorus declaimed insincere inanities\".\n\nThe offensive event witnessed by the more respectable Cubists solicited a vehement denunciation, declaring Dada an abomination.\n\nThe Salon des Indépendants of 1921, which opened in January, had less Cubist paintings than the previous year. Braque and Metzinger were not represented. The artists that did exhibit included Gleizes, Ferat, Hayden, Marcoussis, Hellesen and Survage. With the Cubists were also Hélène Pordriat, Marthe Laurens, Irène Lagut, Alice Halicka and Sonia Lewitska. At the exhibition were also the works of Bissière, Blanchard, Dufy, Lhote, Tirman, Zadkine and Lipchitz.\n\nThe hanging commission was conducted in opposition to Signac, who was in favor of the alphabetical order system. Léger left the placement committee in 1923. In 1924 placement was classified by nationality and alphabetically. Lhote left the placement committee, which consisted of 20 people, along with eight other members in 1925. Lhote was of the opinion that the change was mainly intended for the \"Sunday painters\". Signac and his supporters defended the alphabetical order stressing 'equal attention to all participants' and that there was no place for 'les petites chapelles' (the little chapels). The latter was especially directed against the neo-cubists, who after the First World wished to be associated with well-known artists.\n\nFrom 1920 the \"Société des Artistes Indépendants\" obtained the Grand Palais for its salon exhibitions. After World War II, the \"Salon des Indépendants\" was renewed with the artist group \"\", with the assistance of Dunoyer de Segonzac, Bernard Buffet, Jean Carzou, Maurice Boitel, Yves Brayer, Aristide Caillaud, Daniel du Janerand, amongst others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4517489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517489", "title": "The Gop", "text": "The Gop\n\nThe Gop () is a neolithic mound lying north of Trelawnyd in Flintshire, Wales, in the Clwydian Range. \n\nOval in form, it is the second-largest neolithic mound in Britain after Silbury Hill. Excavations have discovered prehistoric remains both in the caves below and in the mound itself.\n\nExcavations have uncovered no burial chambers or other underground works, which may indicate that it was used as a look-out or hill fort; there is evidence that there was a considerable amount of stone on the top of hill. In the 17th century, its prominent position allowed a beacon to be placed there.\n\nThe mound lies on top of Gop Hill (823 feet), a natural limestone outcrop, in the side of which are the Gop Caves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35388362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35388362", "title": "Tirhuta Panchang", "text": "Tirhuta Panchang\n\nTirhuta Panchang (Devanagari: तिरहुता पंचांग \"Tirhut pan̄cāṅg\" / Tirhuta: তিবহুতা পঞ্চাঙ্গ \"Tirhutā pan̄cāṅg\") is a calendar followed by the Maithili community of India and Nepal. This calendar is one of the many Hindu calendars. It is a sidereal solar Hindu calendar in which the year begins on the first day of Baishakh month i.e. Mesh Sankranti. Every year, this day falls on 13/14 April of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\nPohela Boishakh in West Bengal, Bohag Bihu in Assam, Puthandu in Tamil Nadu, and Vaisakhi in the Punjab region are observed on the same day. These festivals also mark the beginning of the New Year in their respective regions.\n\nNames and approximate lengths of Maithili months :\nThese three months are the summer season in Mithila, out of these 3, Jeth & Asarh are very hot. Baishakh is the month of Litchi. Jeth and Asarh are the months of Mango.\n\nMithila receives heavy rainfall during these two months, often resulting in flooding. Farmers wait for saon's first rain so they can sow paddy in their fields. The holy month of saon is devoted to Lord Shiva. Devotees visit Baidnath Dham in Deoghar to offer gangajal.\n\nThese two months have moderate weather. Both these months are festive season for Mithila. Navaratra falls in Asin, Diwali & Chhath Falls in Katik. Moreover, Katik is the harvesting month for farmers.\n\nAgahan, Pous and Magh are the winter seasons in Mithila. Out of these 3, Pous & Magh are the extreme winter periods, temperature sometimes falls to 5 °C. Makar Sankranti falls in the month of Pous, and vasant Panchami in Magh.\n\nAfter winter, Fagun & Chait are the moderate months. Fagun & Chait again are the harvesting months. Holi falls in Fagun and Chhath falls in Chait. Chaith is the last month of Maithili Calendar.\n\nLike, most of the calendars of the world, Maithili calendar also has 7 days in a week, each of 24-hour length. Ravdin or Sunday is supposed to be the first day of the week.\n\nThe Maithili calendar is the calendar of Mithila which originated in Mithila region. The Maithili calendar is of great importance for Maithil people in India as well as in Nepal. All auspicious dates (e.g. marriage, \"Mundan\", \"Upanayana sanskar\") as well as the dates of Maithili festivals (e.g. Dipawali(Diwali/Tihar), \"Chhath\", Durga Puja, Janaki Navami\") are set based on the Maithili calendar. It has deep roots in the Hindu religion and Mithila's culture.\n\nThe Maithili calendar is related to the Hindu solar calendar, which is itself based on the Surya Siddhanta. The Hindu solar calendar also starts in mid-April, and the first day of the calendar is celebrated as the traditional New Year in the Indian states of Assam, West Bengal,Kerala, Manipur, Orissa, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and Tripura. Bangladesh, Nepal, Thailand and Sri Lanka also celebrate new year around the same time (13–15 April). This day is also known as \"Mesha Shankranti\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2485593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2485593", "title": "United States Domestic Policy Council", "text": "United States Domestic Policy Council\n\nThe Domestic Policy Council (DPC) of the United States is the principal forum used by the President of the United States for considering domestic policy matters, excluding economic matters, which are the domain of the National Economic Council. The council forms part of the Office of White House Policy which contains the DPC, the National Economic Council and various subordinate offices, such as the Office of National AIDS Policy. The Director of the DPC is titled the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council.\n\nThe Domestic Policy Council was established on April 11, 1985, by President Ronald Reagan. The first Executive Director of the Council was Dr. Ralph Bledsoe. President George H.W. Bush re-established the Council on February 8, 1989, appointing Dr. Kenneth Yale as Executive Director of the Council. On August 16, 1993, the Council was expanded by . The Council oversees development and implementation of the President’s domestic policy agenda and ensures coordination and communication among the heads of relevant Federal offices and agencies.\n\nEven before the formal creation of the DPC, some form of a domestic policy staff had existed in the White House since the 1960s. President Lyndon B. Johnson assigned a senior-level aide to organize staff and develop domestic policy. In 1970, President Richard Nixon issued an executive order that created the Office of Policy Development, a large White House office with jurisdiction over economic and domestic policy. President Bill Clinton again altered the structure by splitting the office, forming the current Domestic Policy Council and the National Economic Council which both exist today underneath the umbrella of the Office of White House Policy, which can also be known as the Office of Policy Development.\n\n"}
{"id": "27672655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27672655", "title": "William Owen Stanley", "text": "William Owen Stanley\n\nHon. William Owen Stanley (13 November 1802 – 24 February 1884) was a British Liberal Party politician.\n\nStanley was the son of John Stanley, 1st Baron Stanley of Alderley, and Lady Maria Josepha, daughter of John Holroyd, 1st Earl of Sheffield. His elder twin brother was Edward Stanley, 2nd Baron Stanley of Alderley. He became a solicitor.\n\nStanley was a Member of Parliament (MP) for Anglesey 1837–1847, City of Chester 1850–1857 and Beaumaris 1857–1874. He was also the Lord Lieutenant of Anglesey 2 March 1869 – 24 February 1884, Stanley was a captain and adjutant in the Grenadier Guards. As an antiquarian of wide reputation, he was the author of \"Anglesey\" (1871) and contributed many Celtic contributions, especially on Celtic subjects and his excavations at Holyhead and Castell, Anglesey, to \"Archaeologia Cambrensis\".\n\nStanley married Ellin Williams, daughter of Sir John Williams of Bodelwyddan, Flintshire in 1832. He was heir to Penrhos estate in Anglesey where he lived throughout his life.\n\nStanley donated a collection of antiquities from Anglesey to the British Museum in 1870 and 1881.\n\nHis monument is in St Cybi's Church, Holyhead.\n"}
