{"id": "45395430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45395430", "title": "Augmented reality-assisted surgery", "text": "Augmented reality-assisted surgery\n\nAugmented reality-assisted surgery (ARAS) is a surgical tool utilizing technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a surgeon’s view of the operative field, thus providing a composite view for the surgeon of the patient with a computer generated overlay enhancing the operative experience. It can be used for training, preparation for an operation, or performance of an operation. ARAS can be performed using a wide array of technology, including an optical head-mounted display (OHMD)—such as the Google Glass XE 22.1 or Vuzix STAR 1200 XL—and a digital overlay from robotic and laparoscopic surgery feeds. The technique has been primarily been tested in the urological and cardiovascular domains.\n\nA subset of ARAS called augmented reality-assisted urologic surgery (ARAUS) specifically aids with urological surgery. This intraoperative training tool was first described and utilized by Tariq S. Hakky, Ryan M. Dickey, and Larry I. Lipshultz within the Scott Department of Urology, Baylor College of Medicine, and Daniel R. Martinez, Rafael E. Carrion, and Philippe E. Spiess within the Sexual Medicine Program in the Department of Urology, at the University of South Florida. It was initially used to teach medical residents how to place a penile prosthesis from start to finish via an application downloaded onto the OHMD. Intraoperatively, an optical display camera output feed combined with software allowing for the detection of points of interest enabled faculty to interact with residents during the placement of the penile prosthesis. Both faculty and residents demonstrated a high degree of satisfaction of the ARAUS experience, and it was shown to be an effective tool in training urological surgical technique. Advantages of ARAUS include real-time feedback of residents during surgery and superior visibility and interaction between faculty and residents.\n\nARAS has also been applied to the cardiovascular realm. Terry Peters of the University of Western Ontario in London, Canada has teamed up with other researchers at the Robarts Research Institute to implement ARAS towards the goal of improving repairs to the heart's mitral valve and replacement of the aortic valve. In an interview for the Medical Augmented Reality Blog, Peters stated that his research team could not only use ARAS to \"[improve] the speed and safety of the cardiac valve repair procedure\"; they also conducted \"the evaluation of an AR environment to plan brain-tumor removal, and the development of an ARF-enhanced system for ultrasound-guided spinal injections.\"\n"}
{"id": "12393082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12393082", "title": "Banelco", "text": "Banelco\n\nBanelco (an acronym for \"Banca Electrónica Compartida\") is an ATM network in Argentina. Established in 1985, it offers several services related to cash flow management, including debit cards, electronic transfers and service payments.\n\nBanelco is owned by private banks and operates 6.000 ATMs (one third of the total in the country). Its main competitor in the Argentine market is Red Link. The company also operates Pagomiscuentas, an electronic bill payment service.\n\nBanks in Argentina which maintain Banelco ATMs include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18050244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18050244", "title": "Basenotes", "text": "Basenotes\n\nBasenotes is a United Kingdom-based online fragrance resource which includes a fragrance database, message boards and editorial. The site was launched in August 2000 by Grant Osborne as an information site for men's fragrance and grooming. In 2004, the site expanded to include feminine fragrances.\nThe Basenotes Fragrance Directory contains over 20,000 fragrances and over 90,000 fragrance reviews by the site's visitors. Users of the site can search for fragrances by name, house, year of launch, gender, notes (ingredients), perfumer or bottle designer. Visitors to the site can submit information to be included in the directory.\n\nThe consumer reviews on the site have been described as \"admirably prosaic\" by Alexis Petridis in \"The Guardian\".\n\nBasenotes has a lively fragrance forum, described by \"The New York Times\" as \"the rialto for perfume talk\", where registered members can discuss fragrances and trade fragrances in the Basenotes Marketplace.\n\nEach year Basenotes asks visitors to the site to vote for their favorite fragrances that year. Regular winners include Old Spice, Shalimar, Vetiver de Guerlain, Chanel No.5, YSL M7, Green Irish Tweed and A*Men. There are also categories for the best new fragrance and best celebrity fragrance.\n\nThe site also has regularly updated industry news, user blogs, articles and interviews with figures in the fragrance industry.\n\nBasenotes has won five awards for its editorial content at The Canadian Fragrance Awards in 2007, 2008 and 2009. All three of these winning articles were written by Marian Bendeth, a regular contributor and fragrance expert.\n\nIn 2009, the website won a prize for Best Web Editorial at the Jasmine Awards for an article by the writer, Liz Upton. The following year, the same prize was won by the Basenotes writer, Walker Minton. In 2018, Claire Vukcevic won the Best Practical Guide Award for her guide to summer fragrances on Basenotes.\n\nIn August 2008, Basenotes was one of 50 websites recommended by \"Men's Vogue\" in a best-of-the-web round-up which also featured IMDB, Slashdot, Boing Boing and eLuxury.\n\nMuch suspicion surrounds the censorship process on the site, whereby opinions which differ from the orthodoxy as presented by the site moderators are removed. Frequently, this results in the banning of members who express non-compliant views. It has been suggested that there are commercial motives behind this censorship. Fragrance house O'Driu, who apparently suffered as a result of this perceived bias, famously responded by releasing a fragrance called \"Basenotes Kiss My Ass\", which won an award at the Cafleurebon 2015 fragrance awards.\n"}
{"id": "375139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375139", "title": "Chemical explosive", "text": "Chemical explosive\n\nThe vast majority of explosives are chemical explosives. Explosives usually have less potential energy than fuels, but their high rate of energy release produces a great blast pressure. TNT has a detonation velocity of 6,940 m/s compared to 1,680 m/s for the detonation of a pentane-air mixture, and the 0.34-m/s stoichiometric flame speed of gasoline combustion in air.\n\nThe properties of the explosive indicate the class into which it falls. In some cases explosives can be made to fall into either class by the conditions under which they are initiated. In sufficiently large quantities, almost all low explosives can undergo a Deflagration to Detonation Transition (DDT). For convenience, low and high explosives may be differentiated by the shipping and storage classes. \n\nA chemical explosive is a compound or mixture which, upon the application of heat or shock, decomposes or rearranges with extreme rapidity, yielding much gas and heat. Many substances not ordinarily classed as explosives may do one, or even two, of these things. For example, at high temperatures (> 2000 °C) a mixture of nitrogen and oxygen can be made to react rapidly and yield the gaseous product nitric oxide; yet the mixture is not an explosive since it does not evolve heat, but rather absorbs heat.\n\nFor a chemical to be an explosive, it must exhibit all of the following:\n\nA sensitiser is a powdered or fine particulate material that is sometimes used to create voids that aid in the initiation or propagation of the detonation wave. It may be as high-tech as glass beads or as simple as seeds.\n\nThe development of new and improved types of ammunition requires a continuous program of research and development. Adoption of an explosive for a particular use is based upon both proving ground and service tests. Before these tests, however, preliminary estimates of the characteristics of the explosive are made. The principles of thermochemistry are applied for this process.\n\nThermochemistry is concerned with the changes in internal energy, principally as heat, in chemical reactions. An explosion consists of a series of reactions, highly exothermic, involving decomposition of the ingredients and recombination to form the products of explosion. Energy changes in explosive reactions are calculated either from known chemical laws or by analysis of the products.\n\nFor most common reactions, tables based on previous investigations permit rapid calculation of energy changes. Products of an explosive remaining in a closed calorimetric bomb (a constant-volume explosion) after cooling the bomb back to room temperature and pressure are rarely those present at the instant of maximum temperature and pressure. Since only the final products may be analyzed conveniently, indirect or theoretical methods are often used to determine the maximum temperature and pressure values.\n\nSome of the important characteristics of an explosive that can be determined by such theoretical computations are:\n\n\nIn order to assist in balancing chemical equations, an order of priorities is presented in table 1. Explosives containing C, H, O, and N and/or a metal will form the products of reaction in the priority sequence shown. Some observation you might want to make as you balance an equation:\n\n\nExample, TNT:\n\nUsing the order of priorities in table 1, priority 4 gives the first reaction products:\n\nNext, since all the oxygen has been combined with the carbon to form CO, priority 7 results in:\n\nFinally, priority 9 results in: 5H → 2.5H\n\nThe balanced equation, showing the products of reaction resulting from the detonation of TNT is:\n\nNotice that partial moles are permitted in these calculations. The number of moles of gas formed is 10. The product carbon is a solid.\n\nThe PETN reaction will be examined as an example of thermo-chemical calculations.\n\n(1) Balance the chemical reaction equation. Using table 1, priority 4 gives the first reaction products:\n\nNext, the hydrogen combines with remaining oxygen:\n\nThen the remaining oxygen will combine with the CO to form CO and CO.\n\nFinally the remaining nitrogen forms in its natural state (N).\n\nThe balanced reaction equation is:\n\n(2) Determine the number of molar volumes of gas per mole. Since the molar volume of one gas is equal to the molar volume of any other gas, and since all the products of the PETN reaction are gaseous, the resulting number of molar volumes of gas (\"N\") is:\n\n(3) Determine the potential (capacity for doing work). If the total heat liberated by an explosive under constant volume conditions (\"Q\") is converted to the equivalent work units, the result is the potential of that explosive.\n\nThe heat liberated at constant volume (\"Q\") is equivalent to the heat liberated at constant pressure (\"Q\") plus that heat converted to work in expanding the surrounding medium. Hence, \"Q\" = \"Q\" + work (converted).\n"}
{"id": "39297573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39297573", "title": "Clamond basket", "text": "Clamond basket\n\nA Clamond basket is a kind of gas mantle, invented in the 1880s by the Parisian Charles Clamond, and which he later patented in the United States. It was the first economically practical gas mantle, since prior mantles had involved expensive materials like platinum and iridium.\n\nA dense water-based slurry of magnesium hydroxide and magnesium acetate is forced through a small hole in a metal plate. On exposure to air it solidifies sufficiently to make a thread which is shaped into the required form.\n\nWhen exposed to a hot flame, a basket made of this composite gauze would burn away the acetate, leaving a brittle but serviceable magnesia (magnesium oxide) basket behind as the mantle. Charles Lungren subsequently patented a support mechanism which allowed such fragile baskets to be employed more easily. Clamond filed a related patent which deals with production, storage, and transport-proofing mantles.\n"}
{"id": "732857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732857", "title": "Confetti", "text": "Confetti\n\nConfetti are small pieces or streamers of paper, mylar, or metallic material which are usually thrown at celebrations, especially parades and weddings. The origins are from the Latin \"confectum\", with \"confetti\" the plural of Italian \"confetto\", small sweet. Modern paper confetti trace back to symbolic rituals of tossing grains and sweets during special occasions, traditional for numerous cultures throughout history as an ancient custom dating back to pagan times, but adapted from sweets and grains to paper through the centuries.\n\nConfetti are made in a variety of colors, and commercially available confetti come in many different shapes. A distinction is made between confetti and glitter; glitter is smaller than confetti (pieces usually no larger than 1mm) and is universally shiny. Most table confetti are also shiny. While they are called metallic confetti they are actually metallized PVC. The most popular shape is the star. Seasonally, Snowflake Confetti are the most requested shape. Most party supply stores carry paper and metallic confetti. Confetti are commonly used at social gatherings such as parties, weddings, and Bar Mitzvahs, but are often considered taboo at funerals, due to the somber atmosphere. The simplest confetti are simply shredded paper (see ticker-tape parade), and can be made with scissors or a paper shredder. Other confetti often consist of chads punched out of scrap paper. A hole punch can be used to make small round chads. For more elaborate chads, a ticket punch can be used. Most pieces of paper flats will flutter as tumblewings giving flight times because of gliding aerodynamics.\n\nIn recent years the use of confetti as a cosmetic addition to trophy presentations at sporting events has become increasingly common. In this case, larger strips of paper (typically measuring 20 mm × 60 mm) in the colors appropriate to the team or celebration are used. For smaller volumes of confetti, ABS or PVC \"barrels\" are filled and the confetti is projected via a \"cannon\" (a small pressure vessel) using compressed air or carbon dioxide. For larger venues or volumes of confetti, a venturi air mover powered by carbon dioxide is used to propel significantly larger volumes of confetti greater distances.\n\nSince the Middle Ages, in Northern Italy it was common usage for the participants of carnival parades to throw objects at the crowd, mostly mud balls, eggs, coins or fruit. These traditions are still present in some towns in different forms, such as the \"Battle of the Oranges\" in Ivrea.\n\nThe use of throwing objects at parades is well documented in Milan since the 14th century. The nobles used to throw candies and flowers during the parades while dames threw eggshells filled with essences and perfumes. Lower-class people mocked the nobles by throwing rotten eggs, and battles among enemy factions or districts became common. In 1597, the city governor Juan Fernández de Velasco imposed a ban on the eggs throwing, along with banning \"squittaroli\" (spraying liquids in the street) and other immoral behaviors. The custom disappeared for about a century, coming back in the 1700s in the form of launch of small candies, mostly sugar-coated seeds. The seeds used for the sugar candies were mostly Coriander (\"coriandolo\" in Italian), a common plantation in the area: the Italian name for confetti is indeed \"coriandoli\".\n\nThe candies were expensive, though, and the lower classes often used small chalk balls instead, called \"benis de gess\" (chalk candy). Those were officially defined as \"the only material allowed to be thrown during the parades\" in an edict by the Prefect of Milan in 1808, but the battles fought with them in the 1800s became too large and dangerous, with hundreds of people involved, leading to a ban of the chalk pellets. People circumvented the ban by using mud balls.\n\nIn 1875, an Italian businessman from Milan, Enrico Mangili, began selling paper confetti for use in the upcoming \"carnevale di Milano\", the yearly parade held along the streets of the city.\n\nAt that time, the province of Milan was one of the main hubs of silk manufacturing. Mangili begun collecting the small punched paper disks that were left as a byproduct from the production of the holed sheets used by the silkworm breeders as cage bedding, and selling them for profit. The new paper confetti were well received by the customers, being less harmful, funnier and cheaper than the alternatives, and their use quickly replaced previous customs in Milan and northern Italy.\n\n\"Scientific American\" recorded that the throwing of paper confetti (plain shredded paper) occurred at the 1885 New Year's Eve in Paris. Paper confetti became common in all of Europe in just a couple of decades later (unlike ticker tape parades, which never received as wide a diffusion as they did in the U.S.).\n\nA recent innovation at weddings is to use natural petal confetti. These are made from freeze-dried flower petals and are completely biodegradeable. In fact, many venues now require that only these biodegradable versions may be used. Some wedding venues have decided that due to the mess and potential inconvenience caused by the use of confetti to ban its usage completely. One way that this restriction has been circumvented is to use soap bubbles in place of confetti.\n\nThe English word \"confetti\" (to denote Jordan almonds) is adopted from the Italian confectionery of the same name, which was a small sweet traditionally thrown during carnivals. Also known as \"dragée\" or comfit, Italian confetti are almonds with a hard sugar coating; their name equates to French \"confit\". The Italian word for paper confetti is \"coriandoli\" which refers to the coriander seeds originally contained within the sweet.\n\nBy tradition, the Italian \"confetti\" (sugar coated almonds) are given out at weddings and baptisms (white coating), or graduations (red coating), often wrapped in a small tulle bag as a gift to the guests. For a wedding, they are said to represent the hope that the new couple will have a fertile marriage. The British adapted the missiles to weddings (displacing the traditional grains or rice symbolising sexual fertility) at the end of the 19th century, using symbolic shreds of coloured paper rather than real sweets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342694", "title": "Desk", "text": "Desk\n\nA desk or bureau is a piece of furniture with a flat table-style work surface used in a school, office, home or the like for academic, professional or domestic activities such as reading, writing, or using equipment such as a computer. Desks often have one or more drawers, compartments, or pigeonholes to store items such as office supplies and papers. Desks are usually made of wood or metal, although materials such as glass are sometimes seen.\n\nSome desks have the form of a table, although usually only one side of a desk is suitable to sit at (there are some exceptions, such as a partners desk), unlike most usual tables. Some desks do not have the form of a table, for instance, an armoire desk is a desk built within a large wardrobe-like cabinet, and a portable desk is light enough to be placed on a person's lap. Since many people lean on a desk while using it, a desk must be sturdy. In most cases, people sit at a desk, either on a separate chair or a built-in chair (e.g., in some school desks). Some people use standing desks to be able to stand while using them.\n\nThe word \"desk\" originated from the Modern Latin word \"desca\" \"table to write on\", from the mid 14th century. It is a modification of the Old Italian \"desco\" \"table\", from Latin \"discus\" \"dish\" or \"disc\". The word desk has been used figuratively since 1797. A desk may also be known as a bureau, counter, davenport, escritoire, lectern, reading stand, rolltop desk, school desk, workspace, or writing desk.\n\nDesk-style furniture appears not to have been used in classical antiquity or in other ancient centers of literate civilization in the Middle East or Far East, but there is no specific proof. Medieval illustrations show the first pieces of furniture which seem to have been designed and constructed for reading and writing. Before the invention of the movable type printing press in the 15th century, any reader was potentially a writer or publisher or both, since any book or other document had to be copied by hand. The desks were designed with slots and hooks for bookmarks and for writing implements. Since manuscript volumes were sometimes large and heavy, desks of the period usually had massive structures.\n\nDesks of the Renaissance and later eras had relatively slimmer structures, and more and more drawers were added as woodworking became more precise and cabinet-making became a distinct trade. It is often possible to find out if a table or other piece of furniture of those times was designed to be used as a desk, by looking for a drawer with three small separations (one each for the ink pot, the blotter and the powder tray) and storage for pens.\n\nThe basic desk forms were developed mostly in the 17th and 18th centuries. The modern ergonomic desk is a refinement of the mechanically complex drawing table or drafting table from the end of the 18th century.\n\nRefinements to the first desk forms were considerable through the 19th century, as steam-driven machinery made cheap wood-pulp paper possible towards the end of the first phase of the Industrial Revolution. This allowed an increase in the number of the white-collar workers. As these office workers grew in number, desks were mass-produced for them in large quantities, using newer, steam-driven woodworking machinery. This was the first sharp division in desk manufacturing. From then on, limited quantities of finely crafted desks have been continued to be constructed by master cabinetmakers for the homes and offices of the rich, while the vast majority of desks were assembled rapidly by unskilled labor from components turned out in batches by machine tools. Thus, age alone does not guarantee that an antique desk is a masterpiece, since this split in quality took place more than a hundred years ago.\n\nMore paper and correspondence drove the need for more complex desks and more specialized desks, such as the rolltop desk which was a mass-produced, slatted variant of the classical cylinder desk. It provided a relatively fast and cheap way to lock up the ever increasing flow of paperwork without having to file everything by the end of the day. Paper documents became voluminous enough to be stored separately in filing cabinets. Correspondence and other documents were now too numerous to get enough attention to be rolled up or folded again, then summarized and tagged before being pigeonholed in a small compartment over or under the work surface of the desk. The famous Wooton desk and others were the last manifestations of the \"pigeonhole\" style. The surfaces of some newer desks could be transformed into many different shapes and angles, and were ideal for artists, draftsmen, and engineers.\n\nA small boom in office work and desk production occurred at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th with the introduction of smaller and less expensive electrical presses and efficient carbon paper coupled with the general acceptance of the typewriter. Steel desks were introduced to take heavier loads of paper and withstand the pounding meted out on the typewriters. This also gave rise to the \"typewriter desk\", a platform, sometimes on wheels and with expandable surface via flaps, that was built to a specific height to make typing easier and more comfortable than when using a standard or traditional desk. The L-shaped desk also became popular, with the \"leg\" being used as an annex for the typewriter.\n\nAnother big expansion occurred after the Second World War with the spread of photocopying. Paperwork further increased the number of desk workers, whose work surfaces diminished in size as office rents rose, and the paper itself was moved more and more directly to filing cabinets or sent to specialized records management centers, or transformed into microfilm, or both. Modular desks seating several co-workers close by became common. Even executive or management desks became mass-produced, built of cheap plywood or fiberboard covered with wood finish, as the number of people managing the white collar workers became even greater.\n\nA student desk can be any desk form meant for use by an enrollee in elementary, secondary or postsecondary education. Anna Breadin designed and patented a one-piece school desk in the late 1880s that was built with a table section attached in front of a wooden seat and back rest. Before this, most students in America sat either on chairs or long benches at long tables.\n\nIn homes, the term \"student desk\" designates a small pedestal desk or writing table constructed for use by a teenager or a pre-teen in their room. It often is a pedestal desk, with only one of the two pedestals and about two-thirds of the desk surface. Such desks are sometimes called \"left-pedestal desks\" and \"right-pedestal desks\", depending on the position of the single pedestal. These desks are not as tall as normal adult desks. In some cases, the desk is connected from the seat to the table.\n\nThe desks are usually mass-produced in steel or wood and sold on the consumer market. There is a wide variety of plans available for woodworking enthusiasts to build their own versions. Modern mass-produced student desks are often made with laminate table tops and molded plastic seats in a combined single unit, with storage found under the desktop or on a wire shelf beneath the seat. There are many novel forms of student desks made to maximize the relatively restricted area available in a child's room. One of the most common is the bunk-bed desk, also called the \"loft bed\".\n\nUntil the late 1980s, desks remained a place for paperwork and \"business machines\", but the personal computer was taking hold in large and medium-sized businesses. New office suites included a \"knee hole\" credenza which was a place for a terminal or personal computer and keyboard tray. Soon, new office designs also included \"U-shape\" suites which added a bridge worksurface between the back credenza and front desk. During the North American recession of the early 1990s, many managers and executive workers were required to do word processing and other functions previously completed by typing pools and secretaries. This necessitated a more central placement of the computer on these \"U-shape\" suite desk systems.\n\nWith computers more prevalent, \"computer paper\" became an office supply. The beginning of this paper boom gave birth to the dream of the \"paperless office\", in which all information would only appear on computer monitors. However, the ease of printing personal documents and the lack of comfort with reading text on computer monitors led to a great deal of document printing. The need for paperwork space vied with the increased desk space taken up by computer monitors, computers, printers, scanners, and other peripherals. The need for more space led some desk companies to attach some accessory items to the modesty panel at the back of the desk, such as outlet strips and cable management, in an attempt to clear the desktop of electrical clutter.\n\nThrough the \"tech boom\" of the 1990s, office worker numbers increased along with the cost of office space rent. The cubicle desk became widely accepted in North America as an economical way of squeezing more desk workers into the same space, without further shrinking the size of their cramped working surfaces. The cubicle walls have become new place for workers to affix papers and other items once left on the horizontal desktop surface. Even computer monitor bezels themselves were used to attach reminder notes and business cards.\n\nEarly in the 2000s, private office workers found that their side and back computer-placing furniture made it hard to show the contents of a computer screen to guests or co-workers. Manufacturers have responded to this issue by creating \"forward facing\" desks where computer monitors are placed on the front of the \"U-shape\" workstation. This forward computer monitor placement promotes a clearer sight-line to greet colleagues and allows for common viewing of information displayed on a screen.\n\nReplacement of bulky CRT monitors with flat panel LCDs freed up significant room on desktops. However, the size of displays often increased to accommodate multiple on-screen windows, to display more and more information simultaneously. The lighter weight and slimmer profile of the new displays allowed them to be mounted on flexible arms, so they could be swung into view or out of the way, and adjusted frequently as needed.\n\nThe \"Resolute\" desk in the Oval Office has been used by many American presidents, including John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama. It is made from the timbers of , an abandoned British ship discovered by an American vessel and returned to Queen Victoria of Great Britain as a token of friendship and goodwill. Queen Victoria commissioned the desk from William Evenden, Royal Naval Dockyard at Chatham, England, and presented to President Rutherford B. Hayes in 1880.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16066056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16066056", "title": "Digital modeling and fabrication", "text": "Digital modeling and fabrication\n\nDigital modeling and fabrication is a design and production process that combines 3D modeling or computing-aided design (CAD) with additive and subtractive manufacturing. Additive manufacturing is also known as 3D printing, while subtractive manufacturing may also be referred to as machining, and many other technologies can be exploited to physically produce the designed objects. \n\nDigitally fabricated objects are created with a variety of CAD software packages, using both 2D vector drawing, and 3D modeling. Types of 3D models include four models wireframe, solid, surface and mesh. A design is having one or more of these model types.\n\nThree machine are popular for fabrication:\n\n1. CNC Router\n\n2. Laser cutter\n\n3. 3D Printer\n\nCNC stands for Computer Numerical Control. CNC mills or routers include proprietary software which interprets 2D vector drawings or 3D models and converts this information to a G-code, which represents specific CNC functions in alphanumeric format which the CNC mill can interpret. The G-codes drive a machine tool, a powered mechanical device typically used to fabricate components. CNC machines are classified according to the number of axes that they possess, with 3, 4 and 5 axis machines all being common, and industrial robots being described with having as many as 9 axes. CNC machines are specifically successful in milling materials such as plywood, plastics, foam board, and metal at a fast speed. CNC machine beds are typically large enough to allow 4' × 8' (123 cm x 246 cm) sheets of material, including foam several inches thick, to be cut.\n\nThe laser cutter is a machine that uses a laser to cut materials such as chip board, matte board, felt, wood, and acrylic up to 3/8 inch (1 cm) thickness. The laser cutter is often bundled with a driver software which interprets vector drawings produced by any number of CAD software platforms.\n\nThe laser cutter is able to modulate the speed of the laser head, as well as the intensity and resolution of the laser beam, and as such is able in both to cut and to score material, as well as approximate raster graphics.\n\nObjects cut out of materials can be used in the fabrication of physical models, which will only require the assembly of the flat parts.\n\n3D printers use a variety of methods and technology to assemble physical versions of digital objects. Typically desktop 3D printers can make small plastic 3D objects. They use a roll of thin plastic filament, melting the plastic and then depositing it precisely to cool and harden. They normally build 3D objects from bottom to top in a series of many very thin plastic horizontal layers. This process often happens over the course of a several hours. \nFused deposition modeling, also known as fused filament fabrication, uses a 3-axis robotic system that extrudes material, typically a thermoplastic, one thin layer at a time and progressively builds up a shape. Examples of machines that use this method are the Dimension 768 and the Ultimaker.\nStereolithography uses a high intensity light projector, usually using DLP technology, with a photosensitive polymer resin. It will project the profile of an object to build a single layer, curing the resin into a solid shape. Then the printer will move the object out of the way by a small amount and project the profile of the next layer. Examples of devices that use this method are the Form-One printer and Os-RC Illios.\n\nSelective laser sintering uses a laser to trace out the shape of an object in a bed of finely powdered material that can be fused together by application of heat from the laser. After one layer has been traced by a laser, the bed and partially finished part is moved out of the way, a thin layer of the powdered material is spread, and the process is repeated. Typical materials used are alumide, steel, glass, thermoplastics (especially nylon), and certain ceramics. Example devices include the Formiga P 110 and the Eos EosINT P730.\nPowder printers work in a similar manner to SLS machines, and typically use powders that can be cured, hardened, or otherwise made solid by the application of a liquid binder that is delivered via an inkjet printhead. Common materials are plaster of paris, clay, powdered sugar, wood-filler bonding putty, and flour, which are typically cured with water, alcohol, vinegar, or some combination thereof. The major advantage of powder and SLS machines is their ability to continuously support all parts of their objects throughout the printing process with unprinted powder. This permits the production of geometries not easily otherwise created. However, these printers are often more complex and expensive. Examples of printers using this method are the ZCorp Zprint 400 and 450.\n\n"}
{"id": "31931621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31931621", "title": "Don pack", "text": "Don pack\n\nA Don pack or Dressing pack, was designed for the airborne forces of the British Army during the Second World War .\n\nThe Don pack was a standardised haversack sized webbing carrier, composed of anaesthetics, drugs, serum, dressings, tins of tea, milk and sugar powder, cubes of meat extract, cigarettes, soap and candles. It was designed to contain sufficient supplies for twenty patients. Don packs were sized so a number of them could be fitted into an airborne parachute container.\n\n"}
{"id": "1549158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1549158", "title": "EuroTorp", "text": "EuroTorp\n\nGEIE EuroTorp is a consortium formed in July 1993 by French and Italian defense companies. Concerned governments signed a memorandum of understanding on industrial co-operation on their new generation lightweight torpedo programs.\n\nMember companies of GEIE EuroTorp are\n\nTasks of EuroTorp are to develop, manufacture and market:\n\nIn addition to its programme management and commercial role, EuroTorp is also responsible for achieving compliance with operational specifications, integration on launching platforms and new systems development such as Hard Kill and submarine-launched versions.\n\n"}
{"id": "3981475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981475", "title": "Eurocheque", "text": "Eurocheque\n\nThe Eurocheque was a type of cheque used in Europe that was accepted across national borders and which could be written in a variety of currencies.\n\nEurocheques were originally introduced in 1969 as an alternative to the traveler's cheque and for international payments for goods and services. They were rapidly adopted for domestic use in a number of countries, to the extent that their use for international payment rarely accounted for more than 5% of total Eurocheque transactions. The charges for clearing Eurocheques were substantially lower than those for cross-border use of domestic cheques. \n\nAlthough still accepted as payment by a few bodies, the practice of issuing Eurocheques ceased on 1 January 2002, following the decision to withdraw the Eurocheque guarantee.\n\nEurocheques were particularly popular in German-speaking countries, where they were often issued as standard domestic cheques. They usually had to be accompanied by a cheque guarantee card in order to be accepted in payment at a point of sale. The Eurocheque guarantee card also had the functionality of an ATM card. In some countries, such as Austria and Germany, virtually all Eurocheque cards were co-branded with the logo of the respective domestic debit card system and were actually debit cards. After its phase-out, virtually all of these Eurocheque cards were replaced by Maestro cards. Therefore, Maestro is very often considered to be the successor to the Eurocheque system.\n\nThe decision to end the issuing of Eurocheques was taken because increasing numbers of retailers and banks started to decline payment by Eurocheque and because the use of cash machines and credit cards by international travellers grew within Europe. The relatively high cost of processing Eurocheques, together with the costs resulting from fraud, were also among the factors. In advance of the move, the European Commission expressed concern that \"the benefits of the existing eurocheque system, in particular its standardised cheque format and its clearing facilities in all European countries should not be lost.\"\n\nThe Eurocheque was launched in 1969 with the participation of banks in 14 countries: Belgium, France, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland and West Germany (which issued and accepted Eurocheques) together with Denmark, Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain and Sweden (which accepted Eurocheques).\n\nIn 1972, the 'uniform Eurocheque' and 'uniform Eurocheque guarantee card' were introduced, providing single designs that could be used by all banks within the system. Previously all Eurocheques had carried the Eurocheque symbol, but differed in their designs.\n\nEurocheque International C.V. was formed in 1974 to process payments made using Eurocheques.\n\nIn 1983, British banks withdrew the Eurocheque symbol from their credit cards.\n\nOn 3 February 1988, Eurocheque International became a cooperative society established under Belgian law, having previously been a \"de facto\" association, rather than a legal entity. The shareholders were the Association of Swedish Banks, Associazione Bancaria Italiana, Groupement des cartes bancaires 'CB' (France), Comunidade Portuguesa eurocheque, Bank of Cyprus, Caisse d'épargne de l'État du grand-duché de Luxembourg, Agrupació Andorrana Eurocheque, PBS-Pengeinstitutternes BetalingsSystemer (Denmark), Apacs (United Kingdom), Telekurs (Switzerland), Suomen Pankkiyhdistys (Finland), Association of Norwegian Banks, Stichting Bevordering Chequeverkeer (Netherlands), Irish Clearing House, Jugobanka United Bank (Yugoslavia), Association of Austrian Banks and Bankers, Eurocheque Belgique sc, GZS-Gesellschaft für Zahlungssysteme GmbH (Germany).\n\nAccording to an estimate by Eurocheque International, in 1989 around 32 million Eurocheque cards had been issued by some 9,000 banks in 20 countries.\n\nBy the end of 1998 there were 46 participating countries, 22 of them both issuing and accepting the cheques: Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Finland, France, United Kingdom, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Croatia, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Switzerland, Slovenia, Spain, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Cyprus, and 24 accepting cheques: Egypt, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Gibraltar, Greece, Iceland, Lebanon, Lithuania, Latvia, Morocco, Macedonia, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, Belarus.\n\nIn 1989, French banks withdrew the Eurocheque symbol from their credit cards. In the same year, the use of the Uniform Eurocheque format became universal.\n\nOn 1 September 1992, Eurocheque International C.V. and Eurocheque International Holding N.V. merged with Eurocard International N.V. into a single company, Europay International S.A., incorporated under Belgian law. Europay relocated to Waterloo, Belgium, where they shared the same address as the Europe, Middle East and Africa region of MasterCard International, and the headquarters of the Eurocard-MasterCard joint-venture, Maestro International.\n\nThe decision to end the Eurocheque guarantee from the end of 2002 was taken by Europay's board on 22 April 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "47277274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47277274", "title": "FISBA", "text": "FISBA\n\nFISBA AG is a Swiss photonics company designing and manufacturing optical components and systems.\n\nAs of 2015, FISBA was reported to be the world market leader in certain niche markets such as fast axis collimators. It employed 350 people in St. Gallen.\n"}
{"id": "17244905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17244905", "title": "Field propulsion", "text": "Field propulsion\n\nField propulsion is the concept of spacecraft propulsion where no propellant is necessary but instead momentum of the spacecraft is changed by an interaction of the spacecraft with external force fields, such as gravitational and magnetic fields from stars and planets. It is purely speculative and has not yet been demonstrated to be of practical use or theoretically valid.\n\nAlthough not presently in wide use for space, there exist proven terrestrial examples of \"Field Propulsion\", in which electromagnetic fields act upon a conducting medium such as seawater or plasma for propulsion, is known as magnetohydrodynamics or MHD. MHD is similar in operation to electric motors, however rather than using moving parts or metal conductors, fluid or plasma conductors are employed. The EMS-1 and more recently the Yamato 1 are examples of such electromagnetic Field propulsion systems, first proposed in patent . There is definitely potential to apply MHD to the space environment and experiments such as the NASA's electrodynamic tether, Lorentz Actuated Orbits, the wingless electromagnetic air vehicle, and magnetoplasmadynamic thruster (which does use propellant) lay a solid foundation for using \"fields\" to propel spacecraft without propellant and standard concepts of chemical thrust. Since electrodynamics is well proven science, electromagnetic fields themselves carry momentum (see the Nichols radiometer), and electromagnetic field propulsion is not limited to the ejection velocity of particle propellants, these new concepts offer tremendous potential as a future space propulsion system. They represent a radical departure from current ideas of aeronautics and rocket propulsion, and as such are controversial, but field propulsion may offer the radical breakthroughs in performance capabilities required for deep space exploration. The main limiting factors appear to the generation of the significant amounts of electrical power required and a method of strongly coupling the fields to large volumes.\n\nElectrohydrodynamics is another method whereby electrically charged fluids are used for propulsion and boundary layer control such as ion propulsion\n\nOther practical methods which could be loosely considered as field propulsion include: The gravity assist trajectory, which uses planetary gravity fields and orbital momentum; Solar sails and magnetic sails use respectively the radiation pressure and solar wind for spacecraft thrust; Aerobraking uses the atmosphere of a planet to change relative velocity of a spacecraft. The last two actually involve the exchange of momentum with physical particles and are not usually expressed as an interaction with fields, but they are sometimes included as examples of field propulsion since no spacecraft propellant is required.\n\nOther concepts that have been proposed are speculative, using \"frontier physics\" and concepts from modern physics. So far none of these methods have been unambiguously demonstrated, much less proven practical.\n\nThe Woodward effect is based on a controversial concept of inertia and certain solutions to the equations for General Relativity. Experiments attempting to conclusively demonstrate this effect have been conducted since the 1990s.\n\nAlthough speculative, ideas such as coupling to the momentum flux of the zero-point electromagnetic wave field hypothesized in stochastic electrodynamics have a plausible basis for further investigation within the existing theoretical physics paradigm.\n\nIn contrast, examples of proposals for field propulsion that rely on physics outside the present paradigms are various schemes for faster-than-light, warp drive and antigravity, and often amount to little more than catchy descriptive phrases, with no known physical basis. Until it is shown that the conservation of energy and momentum break down under certain conditions (or scales), any such schemes worthy of discussion must rely on energy and momentum transfer to the spacecraft from some external source such as a local force field, which in turn must obtain it from still other momentum and/or energy sources in the cosmos (in order to satisfy conservation of both energy and momentum).\n\nThis concept is based on the general relativity theory and the quantum field theory from which the idea that space has a physical structure can be proposed. The macroscopic structure is described by the general relativity theory and the microscopic structure by the quantum field theory.\nThe idea is to deform space around the space craft. By deforming the space it would be possible to create a region with higher pressure behind the space craft than before it. Due to the pressure gradient a force would be exerted on the space craft which in turn creates thrust for propulsion. Due to the purely theoretical nature of this propulsion concept it is hard to determine the amount of thrust and the maximum velocity that could be achieved. Currently there are two different concepts for such a field propulsion system one that is purely based on the general relativity theory and one based on the quantum field theory.\n\nIn the general relativistic field propulsion system space is considered to be an elastic field similar to rubber which means that space itself can be treated as an infinite elastic body. If the space-time curves, a normal inwards surface stress is generated which serves as a pressure field. By creating a great number of those curve surfaces behind the space craft it is possible to achieve a unidirectional surface force which can be use for the acceleration of the space craft.\n\nFor the quantum field theoretical propulsion system it is assumed, as stated by the quantum field theory and quantum Electrodynamics, that the quantum vacuum consists out of a zero-radiating electromagnetic field in a non-radiating mode and at a zero-point energy state, the lowest possible energy state. It is also theorized that matter is composed out of elementary primary charged entities, partons, which are bound together as elementary oscillators. By applying an electromagnetic zero point field a Lorentz force is applied on the partons. Using this on a dielectric material could effect the inertia of the mass and that way create an acceleration of the material without creating stress or strain inside the material.\n\nConservation of momentum is a fundamental requirement of propulsion systems because in experiments momentum is always conserved, and is implicit in published work of Newton and Galileo. In each of the propulsion technologies, some form of energy exchange is required with momentum directed backward at light speed c or some lesser velocity v to balance the forward change of momentum. In absence of interaction with an external field, the power P that is required to create a thrust force F is given.\n\nF = P/v when mass is ejected or F=P/c if mass free energy is ejected.\n\nFor a photon rocket the efficiency is too small to be competitive. Other technologies may have better efficiency if the ejection velocity is less than light speed, or a local field can interact with another large scale field of the same type residing in space, which is the intent of field effect propulsion.\n\nThe main advantage of a field propulsion systems is that no propellant is needed, only an energy source. This means that no propellant has to be stored and transported with the space craft which makes it attractive for long term interplanetary or even interstellar manned missions. With current technology a large amount of fuel meant for the way back has to be brought to the destination which increases the payload of the overall space craft significantly. The increased payload of fuel, thus requires more force to accelerate it, requiring even more fuel which is the primary drawback of current rocket technology. Approximately 83% of a Hydrogen-Oxygen powered rocket, which can achieve orbit, is fuel.\n\n"}
{"id": "697301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697301", "title": "Financial transaction", "text": "Financial transaction\n\nA financial transaction is an agreement, or communication, carried out between a buyer and a seller to exchange an asset for payment.\n\nIt involves a change in the status of the finances of two or more businesses or individuals. The buyer and seller are separate entities or objects, often involving the exchange of items of value, such as information, goods, services, and money. It is still a transaction if the goods are exchanged at one time, and the money at another. This is known as a two-part transaction: part one is giving the money, part two is receiving the goods.\n\nIn ancient times non-financial transactions were commonly conducted through systems of credit, in which goods and services were exchanged for a promise of future recompense. Credit has certain disadvantages, including the requirement that traders or their intermediaries trust one another, or trust that authorities exist who can be relied on to enforce agreements. Debts must eventually be settled either with goods or by payment of money, a substance of agreed value such as gold and silver.\n\nSystems of credit are evident throughout recorded history and from archeology. By contrast little evidence has been found of widespread use of pure barter, where traders meet face to face and transactions are completed in a single swap.\n\nAs cities, states, and empires were established, coins and other compact forms of specie were minted or printed as fiat money with set values, permitting the accumulation of assets that would not deteriorate over time as goods might and that had the relatively secure backing of a government which could adjust value by producing more or less of the currency. As fixed currencies were gradually replaced by floating currencies during the 20th century, and as the recent development of computer networks made electronic money possible, financial transactions have rapidly increased in speed and complexity.\n\nIn 1997, billion US dollars were exchanged per day on the foreign exchange market, roughly billion US dollars annually.\n\nThe world financial transactions have jumped from quadrillion US dollars in 2002 to quadrillion US dollars in 2008. 95% of this is speculation.\n\nThis is the most common type of financial transaction. An item or goods are exchanged for money. This transaction results in a decrease in the finances of the purchaser and an increase in the benefits of the sellers.\n\nThis is a slightly more complicated transaction than others in which the lender gives a single large amount of money to the borrower now in return for many smaller repayments of the borrower to the lender over time, usually on a fixed schedule. The smaller delayed repayments usually add up to more than the first large amount. The difference in payments is called interest. Here, money is given for not any specific reason.\n\nThis is a combined loan and purchase in which a lender gives a large amount of money to a borrower for the specific purpose of purchasing a very expensive item (most often a house). As part of the transaction, the borrower usually agrees to give the item (or some other high value item) to the lender if the loan is not paid back on time. This guarantee of repayment is known as collateral.\n\nA bank is a business that is based almost entirely on financial transactions. In addition to acting as a lender for loans and mortgages, banks act as a borrower in a special type of loan called an account. The lender is known as a customer and gives unspecified amounts of money to the bank for unspecified amounts of time. The bank agrees to repay any amount in the account at any time and will pay small amounts of interest on the amount of money that the customer leaves in the account for a certain period of time. In addition, the bank guarantees that the money will not be stolen while it is in the account and will reimburse the customer if it is. In return, the bank gets to use the money for other financial transactions as long as they hold it.\n\nThis is a special combination of a purchase and a loan. The seller gives the buyer the good or item as normal, but the buyer pays the seller using a credit card. In this way, the buyer is paying with a loan from the credit card company, usually a bank. The bank or other financial institution issues credit cards to buyers that allow any number of loans up to a certain cumulative amount. Repayment terms for credit card loans, or debts vary, but the interest is often extremely high. An example of common repayment terms would be a minimum payment of the greater of $10 or 3% every month and a 15–20% interest charge for any unpaid loan amount. In addition to interest, buyers are sometimes charged a yearly fee to use the credit card.\n\nIn order to collect the money for their item, the seller must apply to the credit card company with a signed receipt. Sellers usually apply for many payments at regular intervals. The seller is also charged a fee of normally 1–3% of the purchase price by the credit card company for the privilege of accepting that brand of credit card for purchases.\n\nThus, in a credit card purchase, the transfer of the item is immediate, but all payments are delayed. The credit card holder receives a monthly account of all transactions. The billing delay may be long enough to defer a purchase payment to the bill after the next one.\n\nThis is a special type of purchase. The item or good is transferred as normal, but the purchaser uses a debit card instead of money to pay. A debit card contains an electronic record of the purchaser's account with a bank. Using this card, the seller is able to send an electronic signal to the buyer's bank for the amount of the purchase, and that amount of money is simultaneously debited from the customer's account and credited to the account of the seller. This is possible even if the buyer or seller use different financial institutions. Currently, fees to both the buyer and seller for the use of debit cards are fairly low because the banks want to encourage the use of debit cards. The seller must have a card reader set up in order for such purchases to be made. Debit cards allow a buyer to have access to all the funds in his account without having to carry the money around. It is more difficult to steal such funds than cash, but it is still done. See also skimming and shoulder surfing.\n\n"}
{"id": "27759699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27759699", "title": "Harper Aircraft Manufacturing Company", "text": "Harper Aircraft Manufacturing Company\n\nThe Harper Aircraft Manufacturing Company, also known as Harper Aircraft Company was a manufacturer of airplanes in the early 1930s. Jack. L. Harper was the company president and founder. The Harper Aircraft Company was located in Bedford, Ohio.\n\nThe Harper Aircraft Company built a small monoplane powered by a 35 hp Szekely three-cylinder engine. The company also built the \"Roberts Special,\" powered by a 65-horsepower LeBlond engine, it was a standard Harper airplane with a special variable wing.\n"}
{"id": "22229429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22229429", "title": "Hotel toilet paper folding", "text": "Hotel toilet paper folding\n\nHotel toilet paper folding is a common practice performed by hotels worldwide as a way of assuring guests that the bathroom has been cleaned.\n\nThe common fold normally involves creating a triangle or \"V\" shape out of the first sheet or square on a toilet paper roll. Commonly, the two corners of the final sheet are tucked behind the paper symmetrically, forming a point at the end of the roll. More elaborate folding results in shapes like fans, sailboats, and even flowers.\n\nToilet paper folding (also known as \"toilet paper origami\" or \"toilegami\") has attracted the attention of observers within the hotel industry and beyond it, involving both sober discussion of the practice as a marketing move as well as wry commentary with various degrees of seriousness. The practice has been considered an emblematic example of a meme copied across the world from a hotel to another until the point that most of them now do it.\n\nThe practice is followed by hotels all over the world, according to Stephen Gill, a British photographer who published a book of pictures of folded hotel toilet paper from various nations.\n\nDr. Susan Blackmore, who uses the example of hotel toilet paper folding to illustrate the use of memes, pointed out in the 2006 Darwin Day Lecture before the British Humanist Association that even a remote guesthouse she visited in rural Assam in India folded the first sheet on its rolls of toilet paper.\n\nHotel toilet paper folding is such an institution that in the horror movie \"1408\" it is used as one of the eerie happenings noticed by the main character—after using the toilet paper, he finds it mysteriously has been freshly folded over.\n\nThe practice is meant to assure customers that their hotel room has been cleaned, according to David Feldman, in his \"Imponderables\" syndicated newspaper column. Feldman reported that he had contacted many of the country's largest innkeeper chains to ask why the toilet paper was folded, and all of them provided the same answer. He quoted James P. McCauley, executive director of the International Association of Holiday Inns: \nStephen Gill believes the practice is meant to please or impress customers: \n\n\"Toilet paper origami\" (also called \"toilegami\") is a variation that involves folding toilet paper in elaborate shapes.\n\nGill found differences in the style and care of folding between hotels. One example from Tokyo, \"with its tiny pleats, really stands out\", according to the photographer. \"Only in Japan did I find such minute attention to detail. [...] The New York City [example], on the other hand, is very poor quality, asymmetrical on rough, thin paper. And the Romania [example] is a great slab with a small, right-hand fold.\"\n\nAccording to one hotel industry website, \"Housekeepers at luxe lairs around the world are neatly folding the loose end of a partially used roll of toilet paper into a neat little bow or fan.\" Some hotels provide more elaborate flourishes: some apply a sticker attaching the folded end to the roll; others wrap spare rolls with a ribbon; Thompson Hotels imprint their logo on the first square. The Eldorado Hotel in Santa Fe, New Mexico, also imprints its name and logo on the ends of its toilet paper — a practice done by supervisors checking the work of the housekeepers.\n\nAs part of a $1 billion renovation of the Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach, Florida, in 2006, the typical triangular fold practice was stopped as one of a number of changes in order to give customers an impression that the hotel was special. \"We're not going to do the little pointy thing,\" rooms division chief Charlotte Rosenau told the \"Miami Herald\". \"Every hotel does that.\" The change in toilet paper policy was made after Rosenau and several housekeepers crowded into a bathroom to experiment with different methods. They settled on \"folding the first square in half, then resting the crease midway down the roll\", according to the newspaper. \"It just looks nice and clean,\" Rosenau explained.\n\nThe Tickle Pink Inn, a hotel in Carmel Highlands, California, folds the ends of its toilet paper into fan-like designs, mirroring the folds of its bathroom washcloths. A review in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" noted the practice as \"a fancy touch\".\n\nOne travel writer noted seeing toilet paper folded into flowers and sailboats at hotels in Costa Rica.\n\nAn automated toilet paper folding machine called \"Meruboa\" was invented in Japan. With the push of a lever the device folds the first sheet of toilet paper into a triangle.\n\nElaborate wedding dresses have been made from folded toilet paper (also using glue).\n\nIn a humorous opinion article at the Hotel Online website, Larry Mundy wrote in his \"Room With a View\" column: \"In my experience, there are two basic types of hotels: those that have the housekeeper fold a cute little triangle into the unused end of the toilet paper, and those that don't. Call it silly, call it pointless, I call it a sure indicator of the service levels I can anticipate at the property.\" Mundy continued: \"That tiny detail of carefully triangulated tissue tells me that someone cared, that another member of my own species was here, in this very room, within the past few hours and spared no effort to make the end of the roll both presentable and easier to grip in my time of need. I don't need to engage in frustrating roll-rotation exercises just to find the loose end. I don't need to contemplate the jagged tear-line from the last user's haste—in fact, it doesn't occur to me there was a 'last user' at all, because the roll looks neat and new.\"\n\nBritish comedian John Cleese, who played a hotelier in the television series \"Fawlty Towers\", has commented on the practice in a keynote address: \"Why? What is it for? Is it proof that your house-maid has studied origami? ... If you're a Mason, are you supposed to fold it again into some sort of rhomboid?\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3105244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3105244", "title": "ICN GPS", "text": "ICN GPS\n\nThe iCNxxx series is a range of automotive navigation systems from Navman. These include the iCN320, iCN330, iCN510, iCN520, iCN530, iCN550, iCN610, iCN630, iCN635, and iCN650.\n\nAll the iCN products include address to address routing, spoken guidance instructions and a 2-D display.\n\nThe 600 series do not have a battery, whereas the 300 and 500 series do.\n\nOnly the 500 series have a touch-screen.\n\nThe lack of regular software updates to the iCN 500 range inspired efforts to turn an obsolete single application personal navigation device into a multi functional Handheld PC. Once modded, an iCN is capable of running dozens of applications including Navman's main rivals in the GPS field: namely Tomtom Navigator v6, Navigon, Destinator, iGo and Miomap.\n\nSeveral methods exist for modding the iCN series, all of which involve simple software hacks.\n\nBeyond running GPS alternatives such as Miomap 3.2, a modded iCN can run many PocketPC games.\n\nFor more information on modding the iCN series see the navmanunlocked.forumwise.com forum and gpspassion.com\n\n"}
{"id": "56065761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56065761", "title": "Inerting (gas)", "text": "Inerting (gas)\n\nIn fire and explosion prevention engineering, inerting refers to the introduction of an inert (non-combustible) gas into a closed system (e.g. a container or a process vessel) to make the atmosphere oxygen deficient and non-ignitable. \n\nInerting relies on the principle that a combustible (or flammable) gas is able to undergo combustion (explode) only if mixed with air in the right proportions. The flammability limits of the gas define those proportions, i.e. the ignitable range. In combustion engineering terms, the admission of inert gas can be said to dilute the oxygen below the limiting oxygen concentration.\n\nInerting differs from purging. Purging, by definition, ensures that an ignitable mixture \"never forms\". Inerting makes an ignitable mixture safe by introduction of an inert gas.\n\nBecause the mixture by definition is ignitable before inerting commence, it is imperative that the inerting procedure does not introduce a potential source of ignition, or an explosion will occur. \n\nNFPA 77 states that carbon dioxide from high-pressure cylinders or fire extinguishers should never be used to inert a container or vessel. The release of carbon dioxide may generate static electricity with enough energy to ignite the mixture, resulting in an explosion.\n\nOther unsafe processes that may generate static electricity include pneumatic transport of solids, a release of pressurized gas with solids, industrial vacuum cleaners and spray painting operations\n\nThe term \"inerting\" is often loosely used for any application involving an inert gas, not conforming with the technical definitions in NFPA standards. For example, marine tankers carrying low-flash products like crude oil, naphtha, or gasoline have inerting systems onboard. During the voyage, the vapor pressure of these liquids is so high, that the atmosphere above the liquid (the headspace) is too rich to burn, the atmosphere is unignitable. This may change during unloading. When a certain volume of liquid is drawn from a tank, a similar volume of air will enter the tank's headspace, potentially creating an ignitable atmosphere. \n\nThe inerting systems use an inert gas generator to supply inert make-up gas instead of air. This procedure is often referred to as \"inerting\". Technically, the procedure ensures that the atmosphere in the tank's headspace remains unignitable. The gas mixture in the headspace is not \"inert\" per se, it's just unignitable. Because of its content of flammable vapors, it will burn if mixed with air. Only if enough inert gas is supplied as part of a \"purge-out-of-service\" procedure, will it be unable to burn when mixed with air.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18328922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18328922", "title": "Ingenic Semiconductor", "text": "Ingenic Semiconductor\n\nIngenic Semiconductor is a Chinese fabless semiconductor company based in Beijing, China founded in 2005. They purchased licenses for the MIPS architecture instruction sets in 2009 and design CPU-microarchitectures based on them. They also design system on a chip products including their CPUs and licensed semiconductor intellectual property blocks from third parties, such as Vivante Corporation, commission the fabrication of integrated circuits at semiconductor fabrication plants and sell them.\n\nThe XBurst CPU microarchitecture is based upon the MIPS32 revision 1 respectively the MIPS32 revision 2 instruction set and implements an 8-stage pipeline. XBurst CPU technology consists of 2 parts:\n\nIngenic Semiconductor purchased a MIPS64 instruction set license and designed a microarchitecture based on it: XBurst2.\nXBurst2 is a dual-issue/dual-threaded CPU design. Its development \"will basically be completed\" in the first half of 2014 as announced at Summer 2013.\n\nSoCs incorporating the XBurst microarchitecture:\n\nXBurst1-based SoCs are commonly used in tablet computers, portable media players, digital photo frames and GPS devices:\n\nThe JZ4730 CPU is used in the Skytone Alpha-400 and its variants. The Jz4720 is utilized in the Copyleft Hardware project Ben NanoNote. Another popular device, the Dingoo gaming handheld, uses the JZ4732, a de facto JZ4740. Game Gadget is using the JZ4750. Velocity Micro T103 Cruz and T301 Cruz 7-Inch Android 2.0 Tablets used JZ4760. The JZ4770 SoC is used in several of the Ainol Novo 7 Android tablets and 3Q Tablet PC Qoo! IC0707A/4A40. JZ4770 SoC is also used in the dedicated handheld NEOGEO-X and open source handheld GCW Zero running on OpenDingux. The JZ4780 is used in ImgTec's MIPS based single-board computer (SBC); The Creator CI20 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17757800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17757800", "title": "Instruments used in radiology", "text": "Instruments used in radiology\n\nInstruments used specially in radiology are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "6311788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6311788", "title": "Integrated Micro-Electronics, Inc.", "text": "Integrated Micro-Electronics, Inc.\n\nIntegrated Micro-electronics, Inc. (abbreviated as IMI, ) provides electronics manufacturing services (EMS) and power semiconductor assembly and test services (SATS) with manufacturing facilities in Asia, Europe, and North America. Its headquarters is located in Biñan, Laguna, Philippines.\n\nIMI serves original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in diversified markets that include those in the automotive, industrial, medical, telecommunications infrastructure, storage device, and consumer electronics industries. Its customized solutions range from design and engineering solutions, advance manufacturing engineering capabilities, new product introduction services, manufacturing solutions, reliability test, failure analysis, equipment calibration capabilities, test and system development, and support and fulfillment. The manufacturing portfolio of AC Industrials, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ayala Corporation, IMI is listed in the Philippine Stock Exchange.\n\nIMI started in August 8, 1980 as a joint venture between Ayala Corporation and Resins, Inc. With its headquarters in Muntinlupa, they were just a workforce of around 100 employees with total fixed assets of US$3,700,290 and it is engaged in the assembly of integrated circuits. In 1982, it took a contract manufacturing with its hard disk drive sub-assembly operations and, in 1986, it started the assembly of automotive hybrid integrated circuits. \n\nIn the year 1988, the company ventured into custom printed circuit board assembly and operations and in the next years, it offered standard printed circuit board assembly services with the acquisition of automated surface mounting equipment, and eventually, full product assembly and flexible printed circuit board assembly operations.\n\nThe company moved its manufacturing site in 1995 from Cupang, Muntinlupa to its present location at the Laguna Technopark. In 1998, IMI commenced in offering hardware and software design services, that transitions the company to a total electronics manufacturing service provider. By 2001, IMI had three manufacturing sites in the Philippines.\n\nAs of 2018, IMI has 19 manufacturing sites of +287,000m² with more than 16,700 employees across 8 countries. From an EMS company, it expanded its scope to include EMS and Power Semiconductor Assembly and Test Services. IMI is also into prototyping, manufacturing, product test development, testing and order fulfillment.\n\nIMI has multiple manufacturing sites in Bulgaria, China, Czech Republic, United Kingdom, Germany, Mexico, and the United States providing solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) catering for both regional and international markets.\n\nThe company began to establish its presence outside the Philippines. In 2005, IMI acquired the EMS assets of Saturn Electronics and Engineering Inc. in the US and the Speedy-Tech Electronics Ltd of Singapore. The acquisition of Speedy-Tech eventually led to the establishment of IMI’s presence in China—through three facilities, namely, two in Shenzhen and one in Jiaxing.\n\nBy 2006, the Company became one of the top 50 EMS companies in the world.\n\nIMI strengthened its presence in Europe and South America in 2011 through the acquisition of EPIQ NV subsidiaries in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, and Mexico.\n\nIn August 2016, IMI announced that it will acquired 76.01 percent stake in the optical bonding and display solutions provider, VIA optronics GmbH. This brings new technology to IMI for display solution in the automotive industry by providing automotive camera and display monitor solutions for advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).\n\nIMI also acquired 80 percent stake of Surface Technology International (STI) Enterprise, in 2017, through the subsidiary Integrated Micro-Electronics UK Ltd. STI is an electronics design and manufacturing solutions in both printed circuit board assembly and full box-build manufacturing for high-reliability industries such as aerospace and defense markets. It has two manufacturing sites in United Kingdom, as well as in Cebu, Philippines, and a design center in London.\n\nIn 2010, IMI acquired PSi Technologies, a power semiconductor assembly and test service provider. The company bought the minority shares of PSi Technologies in 2014.\n\nIn January 2015, IMI acquired the remaining shares of PSi from private investment firms Narra Venture Capital II LP and Narra Associates II Limited.\n\nIn 2016, Ayala Corporation announced that it will consolidate its businesses in car dealership and industrial operations into a wholly owned subsidiary AC Industrials—this includes IMI. IMI has the major role of being the manufacturing arm of AC Industrials for its wide range of portfolio. The first project was the motorcycle assembly factory in partnership with KTM AG group under KTM Asia Motorcycle.\n\nOn January 21, 2010, IMI listed 1.137 billion common shares in the Philippine Stock Exchange.\n\nIt has completed its follow-on offering and listing of 215,000,000 common shares on December 5, 2014. IMI has 1,856,899,921 outstanding shares, as of March 31, 2015.\n\nIMI is an EMS player in the automotive industry. Aside from assembly services, IMI provides automotive tier 1 suppliers and original equipment manufacturer services such as design and product development and test systems development. The company manufactures safety electronics for vehicles such as automotive cameras and airbag controls.\n\nThe company also produces access control devices design against theft and dosimeters. It is also involved in the robotics industry. In addition to these, IMI also produces medical diagnostic devices and telecom infrastructure devices.\n\nIts technology groups collaborate with one another and with customers to develop platforms or baseline technologies in areas such as camera and imaging, motor drives, power modules, lighting systems, short range wireless, human-to-machine interface, sensors, and medical electronics.\n\nThe Design & Development (D&D) group of IMI focuses on complex automation deployments in different internal segments, business units, and external customers which includes applications in automation handling, dispensing, screwing, and customized auto feeding system for mass production. It has an extensive competencies in electronic design, mechanical design, and software development, and building platforms in the areas of automotive cameras, motor drives, and power modules. D&D provides full design services from concept to product validation. Contract design and joint development solutions of IMI is integrated in D&D, which includes power electronics, embedded systems, camera and imaging systems, motor drives, power modules, power semiconductors, LED lighting and display design, and low and high radio-frequency design.\n\nThe Advanced Manufacturing Engineering (AME) works on several industrial microelectromechanical systems-based inertial measurement unit modules, commercial laser display modules, and automotive camera modules, including the IMI minicube camera platform. AME is developing a fully automated assembly line that manufactures a complex electro-mechanical assembly for automotive safety and security electronic control at IMI Jiaxing as well as in IMI Mexico. AME is collaborating with D&D on a low cost automotive camera and power modules.\n\nIMI's Test & Systems Development (TSD) expanded the development and application of fully automated test systems that integrate common backend process requirements—product marking, automated inspection, and unit sorting. It also developed an innovative test solutions for automotive electronics, EV vehicle boards and power electronics. It designed and implemented a new line of testers for power module devised and collaborated with a customer to build a fully automated tester for power train boards for EV.\n\nThe Camera and Vision Technology (CVT) group equips IMI to be ready with autonomous driving. A spun off from the D&D in 2016, the group focuses on developing vision-based products that support the different Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) applications. In 2017, The group synced with AME and TSD to become a one-stop shop solution for camera design, prototype development and mass production.\n\nAs initially an EMS company, the manufacturing arm of IMI produces products for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Some manufacturing solutions of IMI are automotive camera, power modules, complete box builds, sub-assembly, component assembly, precision assembly and automated through-hole assembly.\n\nIMI also manufactures plastic parts in Asia, Europe and North America that makes box-build capabilities accessible to its partners in automotive, industrial and consumer electronics industries. It integrates parts such as covers, housings and connectors in sub-assemblies, specializing in electronic box-build. Low pressure molding and thermoforming are the process capabilities of IMI.\n\nThe Precision Machining group is capable of fabricating components for various parts of any material for its customers. Some of the processes includes, material preparation in vertical and horizontal band saw, squaring on conventional machines (milling), CNC machining, finishing grinding deburring machine, coordinate measuring machine (CCM), and metal sheet works.\n\nIMI produces motorcycle for the KTM AG group. A joint venture between KTM Asia Motorcycle Manufacturing (KAMMI) and Adventure Cycle Philippines of AC Industrials, IMI assembles four (4) models of the KTM motorcycles in its plant in Laguna, Philippines.\n\nThe System Integration group of IMI integrates different subsystem and modules into one large system. It serves a wide variety of complex build-to-print and contract design manufacturing requirements and increases value to systems by adding new functionalities while linking all functions of different systems. IMI combines complex PCBAs, electronics and mechanical assemblies with robotics into one system.\n\nIMI has four wholly owned subsidiaries that carry out the business through the various operating entities globally:\nIMI Singapore or officially IMI International (Singapore) Pte Ltd. wholly owns Speedy-Tech Electronics Ltd. when IMI acquired it on 2005. STEL, which provides EMS and power electronics, manages the China and Singapore operations. IMI Singapore also holds Cooperatief IMI Europe U.A that manages the Europe and Mexico operations from the acquisition of EPIQ NV. IMI ROHQ is also an affiliate that serves as a supervisory, communications and coordinating center for IMI Singapore affiliates and subsidiaries. It holds the stake of IMI in VIA Optronics and IMI UK which has stake in STI Enterprises.\n\nIMI USA, Inc. acts as direct support to the Group’s customers by providing program management, customer service, engineering development and prototype manufacturing services. It is also engaged in precision assembly of surface mount technology, chip on flex, chip on board, flip chip on flex, advanced manufacturing process development, engineering development, prototype manufacturing, and small precision assemblies.\n\nIMI Japan, Inc. offers the services, such as technical, quality assurance, sales and commercial support, to answer the needs diverse range of Japanese-based OEMs. It also functions as a program management center for new business that will be endorsed to other subsidiaries. There are no manufacturing operations in IMI Japan.\n\nPSi Technologies, Inc. is a Philippine company, that provides power semiconductor assembly and test services, that IMI bought shares of 56%, and in 2012 it was fully acquired by IMI through the acquisition of the minority of the shares.\n\nIMI received Circuit Assembly’s 2007 Service Excellence Award for the Highest Overall Customer Ranking for medium-sized EMS company category. (Circuit Assembly is a US-based electronics industry trade publication that recognizes companies that receive the highest customer service ratings, as judged by their own customers.) The ASEAN Business Advisory Council, hailed IMI as one of the 12 most admired companies in Southeast Asia.\n\nIMI ranks 18th on the list of top EMS providers in the world based on 2014 EMS-related revenues as reported by Manufacturing Market Insider. It is also the 7th largest EMS player in the automotive industry as reported by New Venture Research based on 2014 EMS-related revenues.\n\nIMI's Analytical Testing and Calibration (ATC) laboratory was granted accreditation for ISO/IEC 17025:2005 on January 8, 2016 by the Philippine Accreditation Bureau (PAB) of the Department of Trade and Industry. The accreditation demonstrates technical competence for the scope specified by the PAB and the operation of a laboratory quality management system that meets the principles of .\n\nIMI has a corporate social responsibility program. IMI began a sustainable community livelihood program through a partnership with ChildFund Foundation and Yakap sa Kaunlaran ng Bata, Inc. (YKBI). Along with this organization IMI, provided the women from the Parents Association of San Pablo and Bay, Laguna, with 10 sewing machines to encourage them toward self-reliance and supplement their entrepreneurial skills. The Parents Associations of both communities are now sewing blouses for Krizia, a garment manufacturer.\n"}
{"id": "1711704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1711704", "title": "Integrated Ocean Drilling Program", "text": "Integrated Ocean Drilling Program\n\nThe Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) was an international marine research program. The program used heavy drilling equipment mounted aboard ships to monitor and sample sub-seafloor environments. With this research, the IODP documented environmental change, Earth processes and effects, the biosphere, solid earth cycles, and geodynamics.\n\nThe program began a new 10-year phase with the International Ocean Discovery Program, from the end of 2013.\n\nThe Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) brought together scientists from different countries and scientific disciplines to conduct investigations of the Earth deep below the sea-floor. IODP gave scientists the opportunity to:\n\n\nIODP was conceived in 2003 as a 10-year Earth science and research program. IODP scientists were drawn from universities and institutes located all across its member countries. Two previous scientific ocean drilling programs, Deep Sea Drilling Project and Ocean Drilling Program, generated abundant information about Earth’s dynamic nature including tectonic processes, ocean circulation, climate change, continental rifting, and ocean basin formation. With IODP, scientific ocean drilling continued to provide scientists with \"in-situ\" studies of critical processes related to Earth’s short-term change and long-term variability. IODP provided diverse drilling resources to meet specific requirements of each planned drilling project.\n\nIODP focused on ocean basins to study the interdependent processes with particular emphases on factors controlling climate change, the vast circulation of fluids within Earth’s crust, the nature of life on and within Earth, and the dynamics of tropospheric formation and recycling.\n\nScientific ocean drilling represented the longest running and most successful international collaboration among the Earth sciences. Scientific ocean drilling began in 1961 with the first sample of oceanic crust recovered aboard the \"CUSS 1\", a modified U.S. Navy barge. American author John Steinbeck, also an amateur oceanographer, documented Project Mohole for LIFE Magazine.\n\nThe Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP), established in June 1966, operated the \"Glomar Challenger\" in drilling and coring operations in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, as well as in the Mediterranean and Red Seas. The \"Challenger’s\" coring operations enabled DSDP to provide the next intellectual step in verifying the hypothesis of plate tectonics associated with seafloor spreading, by dating basal sediments on transects away from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge.\nIn June 1970, the \"Challenger's\" DSDP engineers devised a way to replace worn drill bits and then re-enter boreholes for deeper drilling while in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of New York, in 10,000 feet (3,048 meters) of water. This required the use of sonar scanning equipment and a large-scale re-entry cone.\n\nProcess-oriented Earth studies continued from 1985 until 2003 aboard the \"JOIDES Resolution\", which replaced the \"Glomar Challenger\" in January 1985 as DSDP morphed into the Ocean Drilling Program (ODP). The \"JOIDES Resolution\" is named for the 200-year-old HMS \"Resolution\" which explored the Pacific Ocean and Antarctica under the command of Captain James Cook.\n\nThe Ocean Drilling Program contributed significantly to increased scientific understanding of Earth history, climate change, plate tectonics, natural resources, and geohazards. ODP discoveries included validation of:\n\nNational consortia and government funding agencies supported IODP science and drilling platform operations.\nParticipation in IODP was proportional to investment in the program.\n\nTwo lead agencies formally established IODP. In April 2003, officials from Japan’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) and the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) in which they agreed to form and jointly operate the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program. Japan’s interest in the post-ODP era was signified when “Ocean Drilling in the 21st Century” (OD21) was established in 1994. OD21 included plans for construction of a state-of-the-art, riser-equipped scientific drilling vessel capable of reaching Earth’s mantle. A series of international meetings explored how this goal could be integrated with other scientific objectives expressed by scientific communities in the United States, Europe, and the People’s Republic of China. An IODP office at NSF was responsible for administering commingled funds from NSF, MEXT, and other IODP members to support IODP science-operating costs.\n\nThe European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD) was established in December 2003 with 13 European countries to represent the European contribution in IODP. The consortium grew into a collaborative group of 17 European nations (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and The United Kingdom) and Canada that together comprise an IODP-funding agency. Working alongside Japan and the United States, ECORD provided the IODP scientific community with access to mission-specific platforms, which chosen to fulfill specific scientific objectives. These platforms have limited space on board for labs and scientists, and require an onshore science meeting to describe, process, and analyze the sediment samples collected immediately following a drilling expedition.\n\nIn April 2004, the People’s Republic of China joined IODP as an Associate Member through sponsorship of China’s Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST). China’s participation in IODP has given the Chinese marine science community a new impetus and increased their opportunity for deep-sea research. Chinese scientists participated in research expeditions and represent China’s interests in the IODP Science Advisory Structure.\n\nThe Republic of Korea joined IODP as an Associate Member in June 2006 through the sponsorship of the Korea Institute of Geoscience and Mineral Resources (KIGAM). South Korea’s memorandum of understanding with the lead agencies created the Interim Asian Consortium.\n\nMinistry of Earth Sciences (MoES), Government of India joined the IODP in 2008 as an Associate member. Since then, the National Centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research (NCAOR), Goa has been designated by India to look after all IODP related activities in India (IODP-India). In this direction, an international workshop on IODP drilling in Indian Ocean was organized in Goa during October 17–18, 2011. The workshop was co-hosted by IODP Management International and ANZIC.\nHundreds of international Earth and ocean scientists participated in IODP on a voluntary basis. Participation took many forms: submission of a drilling proposal; sailing on an expedition; participation in an advisory capacity; attendance at a planning workshop or topical symposium. The program’s central management office, IODP Management International, coordinated an integrated work plan between and among all IODP organizational partners. An annual program plan was written each fiscal year and included objectives and tasks necessary for drilling vessel operation, from science coordination to publications, data management, and outreach.\n\nIODP distinguishes itself from its legacy programs by employing multiple drilling technologies/platforms and science/drilling operators to acquire sediment and rock samples and to install monitoring instrumentation beneath the seafloor. Samples and data collected during IODP drilling expeditions are available to scientists and teachers on an open-access basis, once members of the expedition parties have completed their initial studies.\n\nDrilling proposals originated with science proponents, often researchers in geology, geophysics, microbiology, paleontology, or seismology. Once submitted to IODP, the proposal was carefully evaluated by the Science Advisory Structure (SAS), a group of technical review panels. Only those proposals judged as the greatest value based on scientific and technical merit were scheduled for implementation.\n\nSAS panels provided advice on drilling proposals to both proponents and IODP management. Drilling proposals were accepted twice a year, in April and October, and could be submitted to IODP electronically via their website.\n\nA ten-year program plan called the \"Initial Science Plan (ISP)\" guided IODP investigation. Specific scientific themes were emphasized in the \"ISP\": \n\nAs described in the ISP, IODP sought to develop better understandings of:\n\n\nTools critical to these goals included a riser-equipped drilling vessel, a riserless vessel, additional platforms suited to mission specific expeditions, enhanced downhole measurement devices, and long-term monitoring instrumentation.\n\nAn engineering proposal submission process, initiated in April 2007, facilitated the acquisition of existing or latent technology to be used in IODP operations.\n\nDrilling operations were conducted and managed by three IODP implementing organizations:\n\n\nEach drilling expedition was led by a pair of co-chief scientists, with a team of scientists supported by a staff scientist. Each implementing organization provided a combination of services: technical, operational, and financial management; logging; laboratory; core repository; data management; and publication. Although each implementing organization was responsible for its own platform operations and performance, its science operations was funded by the lead agencies.\n\nThe operators conducted the following expeditions during the IODP:\n\nIODP employed two dedicated drilling vessels, each sponsored by a lead agency and managed by their respective implementing organization:\n\nThe U.S.-sponsored drilling vessel was operated throughout the Ocean Drilling Program and the first phase of IODP. The vessel then underwent a rebuild, allowing for increased laboratory space; improved drilling, coring, and sampling capacity; and enhanced health, safety, and environmental protection systems on board.\n\nJapan began building a state-of-the-art scientific drilling vessel for research in 2001 with the intent of reaching Earth’s mantle and drilling into an active seismogenic zone. The resulting drilling vessel, \"Chikyu\" (Japanese for \"Planet Earth\") features a riser drilling system, a dynamic positioning system, and a high-density mud circulation system to prevent borehole collapse during drilling, among other assets. \"Chikyu\" can berth 150 people, cruise at 12 knots, and drill more than 7,000 meters below the seafloor in water depths exceeding 2,000 meters. \"Chikyu\" was damaged during the tsunami of March 11, 2011, and was out-of-service for several months. \"Chikyu\" returned to ocean drilling in April 2012.\n\nECORD commissioned ships on an expedition-by-expedition basis, depending on specific scientific requirements and environment. ECORD contracted the use of three icebreakers for the Arctic Coring Expedition (2004), drilling vessels diving for use in shallow Tahitian (2005) and Australian waters (2010), where scientists sampled fossil coral reefs to investigate the rise in global sea levels since the last ice age, and a liftboat for sampling the New Jersey Shallow Shelf (2009). Mission-specific expeditions required substantial flexibility.\n\nPublications, data management, online tools, and databases are in development to support information- and resource-sharing, so as to expand the ranks of scientists who engage in ocean drilling investigations.\n\nIODP publications are freely available online and a data management system integrates core and laboratory data collected by all three implementing organizations and the two IODP legacy programs. A web-based search system will eventually aggregate post-expedition data and related publications. Requests for data and samples can be made online.\n\nA web-based Site Survey Data Bank enabled proponents to access and deposit the large amounts of data required to document potential drill sites for evaluation. This data was reviewed to assure IODP expeditions could meet their objectives and comply with safety and environmental requirements.\n\nThree IODP core repositories located in Bremen, Germany (IODP Bremen Core Repository), College Station, Texas (IODP Gulf Coast Repository), and Kochi, Japan, archive cores based on geographical origin. Scientists may visit any one of the facilities for onsite research or request a loan for analysis or for teaching purposes. Archived cores include not only IODP samples, but also those retrieved in the two IODP legacy programs (DSDP and ODP).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52137353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52137353", "title": "List of Intel graphics processing units (2013 or earlier)", "text": "List of Intel graphics processing units (2013 or earlier)\n\nThis page contains information about Intel's GPUs and motherboard graphics chipsets in table form.\nIn 1982 Intel licensed the NEC µPD7220 and announced it as the Intel 82720 Graphics Display Controller.\n\nIntel marketed its second generation using the brand Extreme Graphics. These chips added support for texture combiners allowing support for OpenGL 1.3\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13714373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13714373", "title": "Louis period styles", "text": "Louis period styles\n\n\"Louis period styles\" is the collective name for five distinct styles of French architecture and interior design. The styles span the period from 1610 to 1793. \n\nEach of the five styles is named for the ruler of the particular period. \n\n\nThe terms are applied as style terms for the French forms of:\n\nColumbia Encyclopedia: Louis period styles - \"in the Columbia Encyclopedia\"\n"}
{"id": "13949426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13949426", "title": "Mark Robert Halper", "text": "Mark Robert Halper\n\nMark Robert Halper (1965, San Francisco, California) is a Los Angeles photographer noted for the striking human images in his commercial and fine art photography. He has worked in a wide range of specialties including portrait, lifestyle, celebrity, architecture, still life, and fine art.\n\nHalper has worked with publications such as \"Barron's\", \"BusinessWeek\", \"Forbes\", French \"Vogue\", \"Black Enterprise\", \"CIO\", \"CFO\", \"Entrepreneur\", \"Golf\", \"Health\", \"Muscle and Fitness\", \"PC World\", \"Runner's World\", \"SmartMoney\", and \"The Wall Street Journal\", among others.\n\nHalper's celebrity subjects have included Nobel Prize winners, artists, and athletes, as well as businessmen Bill Gates and Sumner Redstone; actors Ben Stein, Tori Spelling, Randy Jackson, Mr. T, James Marsters, David Boreanaz, Jolene Blalock and Mark A. Sheppard; model Lauren Hutton, chef Wolfgang Puck, golfer John Daly, architect Frank Gehry, activist Erin Brockovich; and musicians Gene Simmons, Alejandro Lerner, Michelle Williams, Tears for Fears, and Michael Sadler.\n\nCorporate clients have included AT&T, American Airlines, CBS, \nFedEx, Hasselblad, UCLA, MySpace, Xerox, Paramount Pictures, Samsung, Electronic Arts, Hitachi, Elan Pharmaceuticals, USC, Sony, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Sanyo-Fisher, and City of Hope National Medical Center.\n\nBesides his own work, Halper has also taught photography at Santa Fe Workshops. He has studied with photographers such as Keith Carter, Andrew Eccles, Paul Elledge, Paul Aresu, Frank Ockenfels 3, Rodney Smith, Nick Merrick, Steve Hellerstein, Jay Maisel, Sean Kernan, and Dan Winters. He has also been an instructor for The Julia Dean Photo Workshops, the UCLA Extension, and has taught workshops through his own studio.\n\nHalper has been a speaker for professional photography and design association events, including The Professional Photographers of Canada, The Professional Photographers of Orange County, and The Northwest Arkansas Art Directors Club. He has also been a frequent and popular guest on the Lightsource Podcasts at StudioLighting.net.\n\nMark Robert Halper grew up in Los Angeles, where he still resides. He became interested in filmmaking in high school, an interest which would transform into still photography in college. Halper graduated \nfrom the University of Southern California in 1987 with a degree in \ninternational relations and political science. A year later he began studying commercial photography at UCLA Extension, and started shooting professional assignments in 1989. Halper moved to a downtown Los Angeles studio/loft in early 1990 as his career continued to grow.\n\nEarly clients included the \"Los Angeles Daily Journal\", a newspaper for the legal community for whom Halper would continue to do work during the first seven years of his career. Moving to an expanded studio in 1995, Halper traveled much of the country on assignment for trade publications during the late 1990s. Halper became widely known partly because of his web presence, which dates back to 1996 when he discovered the internet. After the technology crash in 2000 and the decline in trade magazine resources, his clientele switched primarily to corporate and advertising clients. In 2002 his business expanded and a new studio on the same property as his Silver Lake home was opened. Over the next several years he became active in architectural and still life photography, in addition to his now well-established expertise in selling portraiture.\n\nIn September 2007 Halper was married to Jennifer Hunt, a visual \neffects compositor and lighter for feature films at Sony Imageworks.\n\nHalper's featured television appearances include \"Starting Over\", \"10 Years Younger\", \"Fitness Fantasy\", and \"Designing Your Life\".\n\nIn his first book project, \"Low Overhead\" (2004), Halper photographed models in a studio with limited headroom. Said Halper, \"I wanted to see how people reacted in a space where they didn't have any real experience in how to comport themselves.\" The resulting lighthearted images were featured from August to October 2005 in the Arclight Cinemas Gallery in Hollywood, published as a mini-book, and released as an Apple Dashboard widget.\n\nIn \"The Bed Project\" (2005–2006), Halper's subjects dressed as they normally would for bed and brought their own bedding to his studio, allowing Halper to get \"a playfulness out of people they wouldn't normally show in front of a camera.\"\n\nHalper says, \"The key to my work is simplicity. I take out everything that isn’t absolutely necessary, until the only elements that remain are those that are entirely essential. The best photographs are usually the simplest.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7468942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7468942", "title": "Myron Solberg Award", "text": "Myron Solberg Award\n\nThe Myron Solberg Award has been awarded every year since 2004 by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT). It is awarded for leadership in establishing, successfully developing, and continuing a cooperative organization involving academia, government, and industry. The award is named for Myron Solberg (1930-2001), a food science professor at Rutgers University who founded the institution Center for Advanced Food Technology in 1984 and headed the center until his 2000 retirement.\n\nAward winners received a USD 3000 honorarium and a plaque from the Myron Solberg Endowment Fund of the IFT Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9265467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9265467", "title": "NCS Pte Ltd", "text": "NCS Pte Ltd\n\nNCS Group (also known as NCS Pte Ltd or \"NCS\", previously known as National Computer Systems) is a multinational information technology and communications engineering company headquartered in Singapore. NCS has over 8,000 staff located in more than 10 countries across Asia Pacific.\n\nNCS was founded in 1981 when the Government of Singapore embarked upon initiatives to harness information technology (IT) for both the public and private sectors. It was restructured as a commercial entity in 1996 and a year later, became a wholly owned subsidiary of SingTel Group. NCS adopted its current name on 1 November 2003.\n\nSince its inception, NCS has implemented over 3,000 large-scale, mission-critical as well as multi-platform projects for various Asian and Middle East government ministries and agencies.\n\nSingTel Aeradio was a communication engineering services provider in airport consultancy, facility management services, engineering and radio communications, C4ISR*, intelligent building, smart security solutions, transportation solutions, IT infrastructure system, IT Security training and certification, telecommunication and multimedia.\n\nIn 2002, SingTel Aeradio merged with NCS, retaining much of its identity as NCS Communications Engineering (NCS Comms Engg).\n\nThe company offers several services including consultancy, development, integration, infrastructure management, and BPO to customers from the public, education, financial services, insurance, healthcare, life sciences, logistics, telecommunications, utilities and transportation sectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "13513277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13513277", "title": "Natural oil polyols", "text": "Natural oil polyols\n\nNatural oil polyols, also known as NOPs or biopolyols, are polyols derived from vegetable oils by several different techniques. The primary use for these materials is in the production of polyurethanes. Most NOPs qualify as biobased products, as defined by the United States Secretary of Agriculture in the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002.\n\nNOPs all have similar sources and applications, but the materials themselves can be quite different, depending on how they are made. All are clear liquids, ranging from colorless to medium yellow. Their viscosity is also variable and is usually a function of the molecular weight and the average number of hydroxyl groups per molecule (higher mw and higher hydroxyl content both giving higher viscosity.) Odor is a significant property which is different from NOP to NOP. Most NOPs are still quite similar chemically to their parent vegetable oils and as such are prone to becoming rancid. This involves autoxidation of fatty acid chains containing carbon-carbon double bonds and ultimately the formation of odoriferous, low molecular weight aldehydes, ketones and carboxylic acids. Odor is undesirable in the NOPs themselves, but more importantly, in the materials made from them.\n\nThere are a limited number of naturally occurring vegetable oils (triglycerides) which contain the unreacted hydroxyl groups that account for both the name and important reactivity of these polyols. Castor oil is the only commercially available natural oil polyol that is produced directly from a plant source: all other NOPs require chemical modification of the oils directly available from plants.\n\nThe hope is that using renewable resources as feedstocks for chemical processes will reduce the environmental footprint by reducing the demand on non-renewable fossil fuels currently used in the chemical industry and reduce the overall production of carbon dioxide, the most notable greenhouse gas. One NOP producer, Cargill, estimates that its BiOH(TM)polyol manufacturing process produces 36% less global warming emissions (carbon dioxide), a 61% reduction in non-renewable energy use (burning fossil fuels), and a 23% reduction in the total energy demand, all relative to polyols produced from petrochemicals.\n\nNinety percent of the fatty acids that make up castor oil is ricinoleic acid, which has a hydroxyl group on C-12 and a carbon-carbon double bond. The structure below shows the major component of castor oil which is composed of the tri-ester of rincinoleic acid and glycerin:\nOther vegetable oils - such as soy bean oil, peanut oil, and canola oil - contain carbon-carbon double bonds, but no hydroxyl groups. There are several processes used to introduce hydroxyl groups onto the carbon chain of the fatty acids, and most of these involve oxidation of the C-C double bond. Treatment of the vegetal oils with ozone cleaves the double bond, and esters or alcohols can be made, depending on the conditions used to process the ozonolysis product. The example below shows the reaction of triolein with ozone and ethylene glycol.\n\nAir oxidation, (autoxidation), the chemistry involved in the \"drying\" of drying oils, gives increased molecular weight and introduces hydroxyl groups. The radical reactions involved in autoxidation can produce a complex mixture of crosslinked and oxidized triglycerides. Treatment of vegetable oils with peroxy acids gives epoxides which can be reacted with nucleophiles to give hydroxyl groups. This can be done as a one-step process. Note that in the example shown below only one of the three fatty acid chains is drawn fully, the other part of the molecule is represented by \"R\" and the nucleophile is unspecified. Earlier examples also include acid catalyzed ring opening of epoxidized soybean oil to make oleochemical polyols for polyurethane foams and acid catalyzed ring opening of soy fatty acid methyl esters with multifunctional polyols to form new polyols for casting resins.\nTriglycerides of unsaturated (containing carbon-carbon double bonds) fatty acids or methyl esters of these acids, can be treated with carbon monoxide and hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst to add a -CHO (formyl) groups to the chain (hydroformylation reaction) followed by hydrogenation to give the needed hydroxyl groups. In this case R can be the rest of the triglyceride, or a smaller group such as methyl (in which case the substrate would be similar to biodiesel). If R=Me then additional reactions like transesterification are needed to build up a polyol.\nCastor oil has found numerous applications, many of them due to the presence of the hydroxyl group that allows chemical derivatization of the oil or modifies the properties of castor oil relative to vegetable oils which do not have the hydroxyl group. Castor oil undergoes most of the reactions that alcohols do, but the most industrially important one is reaction with diisocyanates to make polyurethanes.\n\nCastor oil by itself has been used in making a variety of polyurethane products, ranging from coatings to foams, and the use of castor oil derivatives continues to be an area of active development. Castor oil derivatized with propylene oxide makes polyurethane foam for mattresses and yet another new derivative is used in coatings \n\nApart from castor oil, which is a relatively expensive vegetable oil and is not produced domestically in many industrialized countries, the use of polyols derived from vegetable oils to make polyurethane products began attracting attention beginning around 2004. The rising costs of petrochemical feedstocks and an enhanced public desire for environmentally friendly green products have created a demand for these materials. One of the most vocal supporters of these polyurethanes made using natural oil polyols is the Ford Motor Company, which debuted polyurethane foam made using soy oil in the seats of its 2008 Ford Mustang. Ford has since placed soy foam seating in all its North American vehicle platforms. The interest of automakers is responsible for much of the work being done on the use of NOPs in polyurethane products for use in cars, for example is seats, and headrests, armrests, soundproofing, and even body panels.\n\nOne of the first uses for NOPs (other than castor oil) was to make spray-on polyurethane foam insulation for buildings.\n\nNOPs are also finding use in polyurethane slab foam used to make conventional mattresses as well as memory foam mattresses.\n\nThe characteristics of NOPs can be varied over a very wide range. This can be done by selection of the base Natural Oil (or oils) used to make up the NOP. Also, using known and increasingly novel (Garrett & Du) chemical techniques, it is possible to graft additional groups onto the triglyceride chains of the NOP and change its processing characteristics and this in turn will change and modify in a controlled manner, the physical properties of the final article which the NOP is being used to produce. Differences and modifications in the process regime and reaction conditions used to make a given NOP also generally lead to different chemical architectures and therefore different end use performance of that NOP; so that even though two NOPs may have been made from the same Natural Oil root, they may be surprisingly different when used and, will produce a detectably different end product too. Commercially, (since 2012) NOPs are available and made from; sawgrass oil, soybean oil, castor oil (as an grafted NOP), rapeseed oil, palm oil (kernel and mesocarp), and coconut oil. There is also some work being done on NOPs made from Natural Animal oils.\n\nInitially in the US, and since early 2010, it has been routinely possible to replace over 50% of petrochemical-based polyols with NOPs for use in slab foams sold into the mass market, furniture and bedding industries. The commercialised technology also eliminates or greatly reduces the odor problem, mentioned above, normally associated with the use of NOPs. This is particularly important when the NOP is to be used at ever higher percentage levels, to try to reduce dependency on petrochemical materials, and to produce materials for use in the domestic and contract furniture segments which are historically very sensitive to \"chemical\" odors in the final foam product in people's homes and places of work.\n\nAmongst other useful effects of using high levels of Natural Oil Polyols to make foams are the improvements seen in the long-term performance of the foam under humid conditions and also on the flammability of the foams; compared to equivalent foams made without the presence of the NOP.\nPeople perspire; and so foams used for the construction of matrasses or furniture will, over time, tend to feel softer and give less support. The perspiration gradually softens the foam. Foams made with high levels of NOPs are much less prone to this problem, so that the useful lifetime of the upholstered product can be extended.\nThe use of high levels of NOP also make it possible to manufacture foams with flame retardants which are permanent, and therefore are not later emitted into the household or work place environment. These relatively recently developed materials can be added at very low levels to NOP foams to pass such well known tests as California Technical Bulletin 117, which is a well-known flammability test for furniture. These permanent flame-retardants are halogen free and key into the foam matrix and are therefore fixed there. An additional effect of using these new, highly efficient, permanent flame retardants, is that the smoke seen during these standard fire tests, may be considerably reduced compared to that produced when testing foams made using non-permanent flame retardant materials, which do not key themselves into the foam structure. More recent work during 2014 with this \"Green Chemistry\" has shown that foams containing about 50 percent by weight of natural oils can be made which produce far less smoke when involved in fire situations. The ability of these low emission foams to reduce smoke emissions by up to 80% is an interesting property which will aid escape from fire situations and also lessen the risks for first responders i.e. emergency services in general and fire department personnel in particular.\n\nOther technology can be combined with these flammability characteristics to give foams, which have extremely low overall emissions of volatile organic compounds, known as VOCs.\n"}
{"id": "22246630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22246630", "title": "Orfeo toolbox", "text": "Orfeo toolbox\n\nOrfeo Toolbox (OTB) is a library for remote sensing image processing. The project was initiated by the French space agency (CNES) in 2006 and is under heavy development. The software is released under a free licence; a number of contributors outside CNES are taking part in development and integrating into other projects. The goal is to provide potential users of satellite images with all the tools necessary to use these images. The library is originally targeted at high resolution images acquired by the Orfeo constellation: Pleiades satellites and Cosmo-Skymed but also handles other sensors.\n\nOTB provides:\n\n\nOTB is a C++ library, based on Insight toolkit (ITK), a medical image processing library.\n\nBindings are developed for Python and Java and are available as the separate OTB-Wrapping project. A blog post on the orfeo-toolbox blog details an example using the python wrapping \n\nA method to use OTB components within IDL/ENVI has been published.\n\nOne of the OTB user defined a procedure to use the library capabilities from MATLAB.\n\nSince late 2009, some modules are developed as processing plugins for QGIS. Modules for classification, segmentation, hill shading have provided. This effort has not been funded so far and relies only on volunteers.\n\nOTB algorithms are now available in QGIS through the processing framework Sextante.\n\nAdditionally to the library, several applications with GUI are distributed. These application enable interactive segmentation, orthorectification, classification, image registration, etc...\n\nThe OTB-Applications package makes available a set of simple software tools which were designed to demonstrates what can be done with OTB. Many users started using these applications for real processing tasks, so we tried to make them more generic, more robust and easy to use. \nIt supports raster and vector data and integrates most of the already existing OTB applications. The architecture takes advantage of the streaming and multi-threading capabilities of the OTB pipeline. It also uses cool features such as processing on demand and automagic file format I/O. The application is called Monteverdi, since this is the name of the Orfeo composer. This is also in memory of the great (and once open source) Khoros/Cantata software.\n\nIn 2013, Monteverdi software have been revamped to take into account users feedbacks regarding how useful the tool was, but also regarding what should be improved to move toward greater usability and operationnality. Monteverdi concept has been reworked into a brand new software called Monteverdi2, enlightened by this experience.\n\nOTB was initially distributed under the french Open Source license CeCILL (similar and compatible with the GNU GPL) and is now available under the Apache 2.0 license.\n\nThe development started in January 2006 with the first release in July 2006. The development version is publicly accessible.\n\nAs of October 2009, OTB has been presented in major conferences across the five continents \n\nMany of those presentations are publicly available \n\nAccording to statistics on ohloh, there is a total of 41 contributors and almost 260,000 lines of code (this include many libraries upon which OTB is built).\n\nOTB in also use for the development of the operational ground segment for the Venus (Vegetation & Environment new micro satellite) and the ESA Sentinel-2 missions.\n"}
{"id": "1754604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1754604", "title": "SAR201", "text": "SAR201\n\nSaudi Aramco Rig 201 is offshore rig owned and managed by Saudi Aramco. This jackup type rig is located in the Persian Gulf.\n\nThis rig was built in 1982 in Singapore and has a max drill depth of 20,000 Feet.\n"}
{"id": "36384471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36384471", "title": "SFI Coding and Classification System", "text": "SFI Coding and Classification System\n\nThe SFI Group System is the most widely used classification system for the maritime and offshore industry worldwide. It is an international standard, which provides a functional subdivision of technical and financial ship or rig information.\n\nSFI consists of a technical account structure covering all aspects of ship/rig specification, and it can be used as a basic standard for all systems in the shipping/offshore industry.\n\nMore than 6000 SFI systems have been installed worldwide.\n\nSFI is used by shipping and offshore companies, shipyards, consultancies, software suppliers, authorities and classification societies.\n\nThe SFI Group System was first released in 1972 as the result of a research project undertaken by the Ship Research Institute of Norway (SFI: Skipsteknisk Forskningsinstitutt). Today, sales, marketing and upgrading of the SFI Group System is undertaken by SpecTec.\n\nThe main purpose of the SFI Group System is to help shipping and offshore companies control operations by tying together all their procedures such as purchasing, accounting, maintenance, technical records, etc.\nThe SFI Group System provides major advantages for shipping and offshore operations in the following areas:\n\nWhen the SFI Group System was established, the intention was that it should be capable of accommodating all relevant ship or rig types, and it should be a common code for the flow of information between different enterprises within the maritime and offshore industry.\n\nThe system should be independent of company organization and methods of ship building, ship operation, maintenance and repair. It should further lend itself to be updated with regard to new ship types and new technology. In order to meet the purpose of and the requirements to the system, the ships were divided into functions. The ship functions are common to all parties who are concerned with the specification, building and operation of ships.\n\nIn addition to the Group System with Detail Code, it may be necessary for each user to develop special codes, such as plan of finance accounts for budgeting and cost control of total company operation.\n\nShipyards using the SFI Group System for planning and control of production will require a supplementary company internal Work Breakdown Structure (WBS).\nShipping companies using the SFI Group System for operation and maintenance planning and control, will require a coding system for consumables.\n\nThe SFI Group System improves the control and quality assurance of activities such as maintenance, purchasing, accounting and record keeping within shipping and offshore operations.\n\nSFI provides shipping and offshore companies, shipyards, authorities, suppliers and consultants with a common plan of technical account/codes in the handling of:\nThe areas of system utilization are steadily increasing, and the system has contributed to increased efficiency in the maritime industry. The SFI Group Systemis a particularly useful tool when routines are being established according to the quality loop (ref. ISO 9004, par. 5.1).\n\nSpecifications are normally established at different levels of detail: Outline, Contract, Building, As Built and Repair Specifications. Technical descriptions of components should be part of the As Built Specification and should follow the SFI Detail Code.\n\nThe database version of the Group System lends itself especially well to the development of the various specifications. A report generator makes it easy for the user to edit specifications according to requirements.\nSpecifications may be related to different Group System levels.\n\nAs estimates are based on specifications, they should follow the same breakdown structure. The estimates normally contain cost of material and working hours:\n\nDrawings can easily be numbered according to SFI, and complex drawings in CAD systems may be split into layers to show individual installations according to the SFI Group System.\n\nDrawing identification may incorporate a SFI Group System number. A standard drawing number may be composed as follows:\n\n179-731-001\nShip no. – SFI tertiary group no. – Consecutive no.\n\nDrawings should be numbered according to the group level if possible. The Primary and Secondary Group levels are usually used for system and arrangement drawings:\n\n\nItem lists on arrangement drawings may also be coded according to the SFI Group System.\n\nA purchase is normally charged to a finance account (cost type) and to a SFI Group System number, often called a technical account (cost center).\n\nWhen purchasing components, a yard may specify the individual item by the SFI Detail Code (6 digits). When a shipping company orders spare parts, these may be identified by the SFI Detail Code + consecutive numbers (total of 9-10 digits).\n\nWhen components are purchased directly to order/ship, the SFI Detail Code may be used as a technical account.\n\nThe spare part manufacturer may have its own numbering system. For a shipping company it is often convenient to establish a spare part numbering system comprising the SFI Detail Code + consecutive numbers:\n\nAn operation and maintenance system will often contain a register covering all maintenance units on board. These units are normally identical to the components in the Detail Code:\n\n731.001.01 - Starting air compressor no. 1\nMaker:\nType:\nSerial no.:\nCapacity:\n\nProcedures for preventive maintenance and class survey of a maintenance unit will be entered with job identification:\n\n731.001.01 - Starting air compressor no. 1\nJob A - 3000 hours routine\nJob B - Class survey\n\nAll records of preventive and corrective maintenance should be filed and related to the maintenance unit. The technical accounts of planned maintenance systems such as AMOS Maintenance and Procurement are commonly based on the SFI Group System.\n\nRepair specifications are often based on information from the maintenance system. The repair bill should follow the repair specification structure. It is customary for the yard to quote prices to the shipping company at subgroup level.\n\nThe SFI Group System is used for budgeting of maintenance and repair work, and for spare part consumption. In order to make a complete operation budget in a shipping company, it is necessary to link the Group System to a plan of finance accounts. Any suitable plan of finance accounts may be used together with SFI.\n\nThe plan of finance accounts usually covers spare parts and consumable items. Budgeting of spare parts may be performed in great detail using the SFI Group System.\n\nCost control of new building or repair work is normally carried out at the tertiary Group and Detail Code levels. Direct purchases are charged to the SFI Detail Code:\n\nMaterials:\nReporting of working hours is normally carried out at the tertiary group level. Activities and jobs must be established to follow up work progress.\n\nMaterials:\nIn relation to ISO 9000 and IMO requirements for safe operation, it is necessary to establish procedures that ensure that specification requirements and rules and regulations from authorities and classification societies are met, and that the ship/rig is operated safely.\n\nThe following procedures and instructions should be classified according to SFI:\n\nThe SFI Group System is often used as a standard filing system for the shipping and offshore industry. SFI gives this industry a well structured and organized filing system for drawings, manuals, reports, and publications.\n\nThe SFI Group System is built up as a 3-digit decimal classification system. The ship/rig is divided into 10 Primary Groups from 0 to 9. Only Primary Groups 1 to 8 are in use. The users may use Primary Groups 0 and 9 for classifying other main components that are not covered by the SFI standard.\n\nEach of the Primary Groups (1st digit) consists of 10 Groups (2nd digit) and each Group is divided further into 10 subgroups (3rd digit).\nThe Primary Groups (1st digit) of SFI for Ships is described below.\n\nDetails and costs that cannot be charged to any specific function on board, e.g. general arrangement, quality assurance, launching, dry-docking and guarantee \nwork.\n\nHull, superstructure and material protection of the vessel.\n\nCargo equipment and machinery including systems for vessel’s cargo, loading/discharging systems, cargo winches and hatches.\n\nShip specific equipment- and machinery. Navigational equipment, manoeuvring machinery, anchoring equipment, and communication equipment. This group also includes special equipment such as equipment for fishing.\n\nEquipment, machinery, systems etc. serving crew and passengers, for example lifesaving equipment, furniture, catering equipment and sanitary systems.\n\nPrimary components in the engine room, for example main and auxiliary engines, propellers, plant, boilers, and generators.\n\nSystems serving main machinery components, for example fuel and lubrication oil systems, starting air system, exhaust systems and automation systems.\n\nCentral ship systems, for example ballast and bilge systems, fire fighting and wash down systems, electrical distribution systems etc.\n\nThe detail and material codes cover components and materials that may be related to the individual subgroups. In order to reach the component level, it might be necessary to break the subgroups further down by using a detail code. This code has not yet been possible to standardize due to the variety of equipment and numbers onboard different types of ships, and due to slightly different requirements to the code for shipyards and shipping companies.\n\nUsually there are two different classes of components and material that are used; one class comprises components and material that are ordered directly to a ship, the other comprises components and material that are ordered to stock. Consequently, the codes are divided into two parts:\n\nDetail Code: Components that are purchased directly to order/ship. The detail code is used to define the individual component and equipment that acts in the sub system function. In the Detail Code the supplementary codes are built up from 001-099.\n\nMaterial Code: This code relates to material that is purchased to stock.\nThe relations between these codes are as follows:\n\nAn SFI User License Certificate must be purchased from SpecTec to use the SFI Group System. One license fee will be charged for each SFI installation. This means that one license is required for each ship/site/rig that uses the coding structure of SFI. There are additional charges for each book, file or database.\n\nThe SFI manuals are available in the following formats:\nThe A4, A5, and Letter manuals contain the following parts:\nThe A6 pocket manual contains:\n\nA classification system such as the SFI Group System will make a substantial contribution to standardized and well-ordered information related to ships/rigs, and will lead to improved communication both within a company and with external parties.\n\nThe SFI Group System will make shipping and offshore operations more efficient because companies will save resources and avoid pitfalls when implementing the SFI standards. SFI can be the common denominator tying together all functions of shipping and offshore operations such as maintenance, purchasing, accounting, filing etc.\n\nThe following websites may also be helpful:\n"}
{"id": "49858758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49858758", "title": "SIGAI", "text": "SIGAI\n\nACM SIGAI is the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Artificial Intelligence (AI), an interdisciplinary group of academic and industrial researchers, practitioners, software developers, end users, and students who work together to promote and support the growth and application of AI principles and techniques throughout computing. SIGAI is one of the oldest special interest groups in the ACM. SIGAI, previously called SIGART, started in 1966, publishing the SIGART Newsletter that later became the SIGART Bulletin and Intelligence Magazine.\n\nSIGAI supports several conferences.\n\n\nACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology (ACM TIST) is a scholarly journal that publishes the quality papers on intelligent systems, applicable algorithms and technology with a multi-disciplinary perspective. An intelligent system is one that uses AI techniques to offer important services (e.g., as a component of a larger system) to allow integrated systems to perceive, reason, learn, and act intelligently in the real world.\n\nAI Matters is the SIGAI quarterly newsletter featuring ideas and announcements of interest to the AI community. AI Matters is archived and made available in the ACM Digital Library.\n\nSIGAI has two main awards that are given out annually.\n\nThe ACM - AAAI Allen Newell Award was founded in honor of Allen Newell, one of the founders of the field of AI. It is presented to an individual selected for career contributions that have breadth within computer science, or that bridge computer science and other disciplines.\n\nThe ACM/SIGAI Autonomous Agents Research Award recognizes researchers in autonomous agents whose current work is an important influence on the field. The award is an official ACM award, funded by an endowment created by ACM SIGAI from the proceeds of previous Autonomous Agents conferences. Prior to 2014, it was known as the ACM/SIGART Autonomous Agents Award. Winners include the following:\n\n\nThe SIGAI Advisory Board includes:\n\nSIGAI Elected Officers include:\n\n\nSIGAI Appointed Officers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36775140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36775140", "title": "Scarabeo 8", "text": "Scarabeo 8\n\nScarabeo 8 is an ultra deepwater 6th generation semi-submersible drilling rig. It is owned and operated by Saipem. The vessel is registered in Nassau, Bahamas.\n\n\"Scarabeo 8\" is an ultra deepwater 6th generation semi-submersible drilling rigs. It is designed by Moss Maritime and its design type is CS50 MKII. The rig is able to operate at the water depth up to , which is classified by the oil industry as \"ultra-deepwater\", and its drilling depth is . It is able to perform drilling operations at the air temperature of and water temperature of .\n\n\"Scarabeo 8\" has a length of and a breadth of . Its height to the drill floor is , height to the upper deck is , and height to the main deck is . Its designed draught at operation is and designed draught at transit is . Its gross tonnage is 35,304, dead weight tonnage 14,508, and net tonnage 10,592 tonnes. It is self-propelling having a maximum speed up to and an average speed of . The vessel is made up of two hulls, six columns and a main deck where the drilling plant and platform services are installed. It has 128 single cabins for accommodation. The rig is equipped with two deck cranes and one knuckle boom. It also has a helideck suitable for Sikorsky S-61N and Sikorsky S-92 helicopters.\n\nThe rig was ordered on 10 June 2005. Its hull was built at the Sevmash yard in Severodvinsk, Russia.\n\nIn 2007, the hull was moved to the shipyard in Palermo, Italy where Fincantieri carried out topsides construction. On 24 June 2010, a fire incident took place when the fire started in the ventilation system. The fire was believed to be an act of sabotage by workers. No one was hurt in the incident. However, as a result of this incident, the rig needed massive replacement of pipes, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems, steel details and paint. About of cables were replaced.\n\nAfter that incident \"Scarabeo 8\" was moved from the Fincantieri yard in Italy to Norway for repairs and final completion. In this voyage it was towed by two tow boats. The rig was winterized for working in Arctic conditions and commissioned in the Westcon yard in Ølensvåg. The rig went through a sea trial period in the beginning of 2012. It was christened on 3 April 2012.\n\nOriginally, the rig was to be ready in the third quarter of 2009. However, due to different accidents and delays it was commissioned only in 2012. The license to drill in Norwegian waters was delayed several times due to non-conformities with Norwegian regulations. Non-conformities were found in areas such as the management system for use of lifting equipment, offshore cranes for pipe handling, emergency operation of lifting appliances, access to electrical equipment, safety barriers, storage facility for helicopter fuel, as well as design-related issues covering materials handling and working environment. In October 2011, a contract worker working at the construction was killed by a fatal accident.\n\nThe first well to drill by \"Scarabeo 8\" is at the Statoil-operated Odden prospect in the North Sea. After that, the rig will drill at the Eni-operated Salina and Bonna prospects in the Barents Sea before starting drilling at the Eni-operated Goliat field.\n\nOn 4 September the rig, drilling at the Salina prospect, was reported as having a 5.7-degree list caused by seawater coming into the ballast water tank.\n"}
{"id": "39810481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39810481", "title": "Scentography", "text": "Scentography\n\nScentography is the technique of creating and storing odor by artificially recreating a smell using chemical and electronic means.\n\nDigiScents Inc was among the more recent pioneers of the technology, developing DigiScent (later iSmell) in 1999 as a device that would plug into a computer's USB port and generate scents dependent on the online content being viewed. The company ceased trading in 2011.\n\nIn 2013, Amy Radcliffe, a Master's student in the Textile Futures department of Central Saint Martins, London introduced a prototype of a desktop device to record aromas. For the project, she drew on headspace technology pioneered in the 1980s by Roman Kaiser to capture smells in the air around certain objects.\n\nCalled the Madeleine, after the Marcel Proust episode from \"Remembrance of Things Past\", the device is a working prototype of a new kind of camera to record smell. It consists of a funnel to be placed over the object with the scent you wish to capture. This is attached to a pump that draws air into an odor trap made of a porous polymer resin. According to Radcliffe, it can take from a few minutes to a whole day to capture the odour in liquid form, depending on its intensity.\n\nSo far, several samples have been sent for analysis in a gas chromatography–mass spectrometry machine at a fragrance laboratory. In the scenario developed for the prototype, the Madeleine would be taken for local lab processing in a similar way to conventional photographic film.\n\nThe device was exhibited during Milan Fashion Week in April 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "462729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462729", "title": "Scottish Agricultural Revolution", "text": "Scottish Agricultural Revolution\n\nThe Agricultural Revolution in Scotland was a series of changes in agricultural practice that began in the seventeenth century and continued in the nineteenth century. They began with the improvement of Scottish Lowlands farmland and the beginning of a transformation of Scottish agriculture from one of the least modernised systems to what was to become the most modern and productive system in Europe. The traditional system of agriculture in Scotland generally used the runrig system of management, which had possibly originated in the late medieval period. The basic pre-improvement farming unit was the (in the Highlands) and the fermetoun (in the Lowlands). In each, a small number of families worked open-field arable and shared grazing. Whilst run rig varied in its detail from place to place, the common defining detail was the sharing out by lot on a regular (probably annual) basis of individual parts (\"rigs\") of the arable land so that families had intermixed plots in different parts of the field. \n\nThe term Scottish Agricultural Revolution was used in the early twentieth century primarily to refer to the period of most dramatic change in the second half of the eighteenth century and early nineteenth century. More recently historians have become aware of a longer processes, with change beginning in the late seventeenth century and still continuing into the mid-nineteenth century. The expansion of the period covered has led some to question the concept of a revolution.\n\nBefore the seventeenth century, with difficult terrain, poor roads and methods of transport there was little trade between different areas of the country and most settlements depended on what was produced locally, often with very little in reserve in bad years. Most farming was based on the lowland fermtoun or highland baile, settlements of a handful of families that jointly farmed an area notionally suitable for two or three plough teams, allocated in run rigs, of \"runs\" (furrows) and \"rigs\" (ridges), to tenant farmers. Most ploughing was done with a heavy wooden plough with an iron coulter, pulled by oxen, which were more effective in the heavy Scottish soil, and cheaper to feed than horses. Those with property rights included husbandmen, lesser landholders and free tenants. Below them were the cottars, who often shared rights to common pasture, occupied small portions of land and participated in joint farming as hired labour. Farms also might have grassmen, who had rights only to grazing. Three acts of parliament passed in 1695 allowed the consolidation of runrigs and the division of common land.\n\nAfter the union with England in 1707, there was a conscious attempt among the gentry and nobility to improve agriculture in Scotland. The Society of Improvers was founded in 1723, including in its 300 members dukes, earls, lairds and landlords. In the first half of the century these changes were limited to tenanted farms in East Lothian and the estates of a few enthusiasts, such as John Cockburn and Archibald Grant. Not all were successful, with Cockburn driving himself into bankruptcy, but the ethos of improvement spread among the landed classes.\nThe English plough was introduced along with foreign grasses, the sowing of rye grass and clover. Turnips and cabbages were introduced, lands enclosed and marshes drained, lime was put down, roads built and woods planted. Drilling and sowing and crop rotation were introduced. The introduction of the potato to Scotland in 1739 greatly improved the diet of the peasantry. Enclosures began to displace the runrig system and free pasture. There was increasing specialisation, with the Lothians became a major centre of grain, Ayrshire of cattle breading and the borders of sheep.\n\nAlthough some estate holders improved the quality of life of their displaced workers, the Agricultural Revolution led directly to what is increasingly becoming known as the Lowland Clearances, with hundreds of thousands of cottars and tenant farmers from central and southern Scotland emigrating from the farms and small holdings their families had occupied for hundreds of years, or adapting them to the Scottish Agricultural Revolution.\n\nImprovement continued in the nineteenth century. Innovations included the first working reaping machine, developed by Patrick Bell in 1828. His rival James Smith turned to improving sub-soil drainage and developed a method of ploughing that could break up the subsoil barrier without disturbing the topsoil. Previously unworkable low-lying carselands could now be brought into arable production and the result was the even Lowland landscape that still predominates.\n\nWhile the Lowlands had seen widespread agricultural improvement, the financially broken Highland lairds took to replacing Highland agricultural practice with its own system of labour with Lowland agricultural practice plus labour in the Highland Clearances. A handful of powerful families, typified by the dukes of Argyll, Atholl, Buccleuch, and Sutherland, owned the best lands and controlled local political, legal and economic affairs. As late as 1878, 68 families owned nearly half the land in Scotland. Particularly after the end of the boom created by the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars (1790–1815), these landlords needed cash to maintain their position in London society. They turned to money rents and downplayed the traditional patriarchal relationship that had historically sustained the clans. This was exacerbated after the repeal of the Corn Laws in mid-century, when Britain adopted a free trade policy, and grain imports from America undermined the profitability of crop production.\nOne result of these changes were the Highland Clearances, by which much of the population of the Highlands suffered forced displacement as lands were enclosed, principally so that they could be used for sheep farming. The clearances followed patterns of agricultural change throughout the UK, though were notorious as a result of the introduction of Lowland farmhands or practice into Highland agricultural land or practice, plus, the late timing, the lack of legal protection for year-by-year tenants under Scots law, the abruptness of the change from the traditional clan system, and the brutality of many evictions. The result was a continuous exodus from the land—to the cities, or further afield to England, Canada, America or Australia.\n\nThe Lowland and Highland Clearances meant that many small settlements were dismantled, their occupants forced either to the new purpose-built villages built by the landowners such as John Cockburn's Ormiston or Archibald Grant's Monymusk on the outskirts of the new ranch-style farms, or to the new industrial centres of Glasgow, Edinburgh, or northern England. Tens of thousands of others emigrated to Canada or the United States, finding opportunities there to own and farm their own land. In the Highlands many that remained were now crofters, living on very small rented farms with indefinite tenure used to raise various crops and animals. For these families kelping, fishing, spinning of linen and military service became important sources of additional revenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28833800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28833800", "title": "Slurry transport", "text": "Slurry transport\n\nSlurry transport uses several methods: hydraulic conveying; conventional lean slurry conveying; and high concentration slurry disposal (HCSD). The latter, HCSD, is a relatively modern approach, which is used to transfer high throughputs of fine fly ash over long distances (>) using high pressure diaphragm pumps with velocities of around 2 m/s. Ash disposal is simple as the ash solidifies easily and the system does not produce the waste water or leachate problems which can often be associated with ash lagoons. \n\nTypical HCSD systems include the Clyde Bergemann solution designed to reduce water usage (up to 90% by weight), reduce ground and surface water pollution, reduce dust emission surrounding landfill site, increase disposal area working capacity and lower energy consumption.\n\n\n2: Miedema, S.A., Slurry Transport: Fundamentals, a Historical Overview and The Delft Head Loss & Limit Deposit Velocity Framework. http://www.dredging.org/media/ceda/org/documents/resources/othersonline/miedema-2016-slurry-transport.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "18189758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18189758", "title": "Slush hydrogen", "text": "Slush hydrogen\n\nSlush hydrogen is a combination of liquid hydrogen and solid hydrogen at the triple point with a lower temperature and a higher density than liquid hydrogen. It is formed by bringing liquid hydrogen down to nearly the melting point (14.01 K or −259.14 °C) that increases density by 16–20% as compared to liquid hydrogen. It is proposed as a rocket fuel in place of liquid hydrogen in order to improve tankage and thus reduce the dry weight of the vehicle.\n\nThe continuous freeze technique used for slush hydrogen involves pulling a continuous vacuum\nover triple point liquid and using a solid hydrogen mechanical ice-breaker to disrupt the surface of the freezing\nhydrogen.\n\n"}
{"id": "23437187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23437187", "title": "Softwarepark Hagenberg", "text": "Softwarepark Hagenberg\n\nThe Softwarepark Hagenberg is the Austrian technology park for software, located in Hagenberg im Mühlkreis, Austria, founded in 1989 by Professor Bruno Buchberger. The Softwarepark Hagenberg is a unique collaboration where research, business and education are intensively cooperating. Because of its success, the park has been called the \"Wunder von Hagenberg\" (miracle from Hagenberg).\n\nBuchberger devised the concept for the park in 1989. It was created to balance both economic needs and desire for research and as such, the concept focused one third on economic production, one third on research and one third on academic education in the field of IT and related sciences. These three components drive a synergetic \"spirale of innovation\". Softwarepark has four main partners: The Province of Upper Austria, the Johannes Kepler University Linz, the Community of Hagenberg, and Raiffeisen Landesbank Oberösterreich, a major local bank. The first institute to be established in the park was Buchberger's Research Institute for Symbolic Computation (RISC) with then 25 students and employees.\n\nToday Softwarepark is increasing its international activities, e.g. with ISI - International Studies in Informatics Hagenberg or the recently launched International Incubator Hagenberg.\n\nWithin the twenty years of its existence, 100 million € were invested into developing the park.\n\nThe park currently houses 50 companies with more than 1000 employees as well as more than 1400 students of a number of universities and colleges, amongst them the Research Institute for Symbolic Computation, and the Software Competence Center Hagenberg SCCH funded by the Austrian COMET program.\n\nAdditionally, the park houses a social project for people with disabilities to provide computer support in cooperation with the Diakonisches Werk Gallneukirchen and the Fachhochschule Hagenberg.\n\nThe current expansion schedule plans to expand the park with 20 million € in funds until 2012, with the expansion of the Research Institute for Symbolic Computation as well as a hotel, sport arenas and an international student union building. An additional 50 million € are planned to be invested until 2014 for the expansion of the companies and research institutes in the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "5287446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5287446", "title": "Station CAST", "text": "Station CAST\n\nStation CAST was the United States Navy signals monitoring and cryptographic intelligence fleet radio unit at Cavite Navy Yard in the Philippines, until Cavite was captured by the Japanese forces in 1942, during World War II. It was an important part of the Allied intelligence effort, addressing Japanese communications as the War expanded from China into the rest of the Pacific theaters. As Japanese advances in the Philippines threatened , its staff and services were progressively transferred to Corregidor in Manila Bay, and eventually to a newly formed US-Australian station, in Melbourne, Australia. \n\nSTATION CAST had originally been located at Shanghai but had been evacuated to Cavite in early 1941 as part of the US Navy's disengagement with China.\n\nPrior to the war, was the US Navy's Far East cryptographic operation, under the OP-20-G Naval Intelligence section in Washington. It was located at the Navy Yard in Manila and moved into the tunnels on Corregidor, as Japanese attacks increased. STATION CAST possessed one of the PURPLE machines produced by the US Army.\n\nCryptanalytic problems facing the United States in the Pacific prior to World War II were largely Japanese. An early decision by OP-20-G divided responsibility for Japanese cryptanalysis amongst its various stations. Station CAST (at Manila in the Philippines), Station HYPO (Pearl Harbor, Hawaii) OP-20-02, and OP-20-G itself in Washington, shared cryptanalytic duties. Other Stations (on Guam, in Puget Sound on Bainbridge Island, etc.) were tasked and staffed for signals interception and traffic analysis.\n\nThe US Army SIS break into the highest security Japanese diplomatic cypher (called PURPLE by US analysts) produced very interesting intelligence, but little of military value (except for Ambassador Hiroshi Oshima's despatches from Germany); none of tactical value, and not much more of direct political value as the Foreign Office in Japan was thought by the ultra-nationalists in effective charge of Japanese foreign and military policy, to be unreliable. Furthermore, decrypts from PURPLE traffic, eventually called MAGIC, were rather capriciously distributed to high level officials in Washington, and in general, poorly used. SIS was able to build several PURPLE machine equivalents and the distribution of those machines has since been thought controversial. One was sent to Station CAST. After the US entered the War, two went to Bletchley Park, the center of British cryptographic work. One was sent to the Far East Combined Bureau (FECB) at Singapore, and was lost during the fall of Singapore \n\nStations HYPO and CAST were assigned responsibility for work on Japanese Navy systems, and after the agreement with the United Kingdom and Netherlands to share the effort, worked with crypto groups in Hong Kong then Singapore (Far East Combined Bureau) and Batavia (Kamer 14 or Room 14). \n\nPrior to the attack on Pearl Harbor, the amount of available traffic was low, and little progress had been made on the most important Japanese Navy system, called by US analysts JN-25. JN-25 was used for high level operations: movement and planning commands, for instance. It was a superencrypted code, eventually a two-book system, and joint cryptanalytic progress was slow. JN-25B was introduced on 1 December 1940, but was broken immediately by FECB as the additives were not changed. Most references cite about 10% of messages partially (or sometimes completely) decrypted prior to 1 December 1941, at which time a new edition of the system went into effect and sent all the cryptanalysts back to the beginning.\n\nAfter 7 December 1941, there was considerably more JN-25 traffic as the Japanese Navy operational tempo increased and geographically expanded, and progress against it went better. The FECB contribution stopped until the crypto station could be relocated from Singapore to Ceylon, but CAST, HYPO, and the Dutch at Batavia, in conjunction with OP-20-G, made steady progress.\n\nStation CAST and its personnel and equipment were moved from Manila to the tunnels on Corregidor as the Japanese approached and spent the next months working there. Eventually, they destroyed their equipment (some IBM punched card machines are said to have been among the gear shoved into the harbor) and were evacuated by submarine to Australia, for service with FRUMEL. Some personnel also worked at the Central Bureau, supplying signals intelligence to MacArthur's South West Pacific Area (command).\n"}
{"id": "22448655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22448655", "title": "Stratobowl", "text": "Stratobowl\n\nThe Stratobowl is a compact natural depression within the limits of Black Hills National Forest in South Dakota, south-west of Rapid City. In 1934–1935 it housed a stratospheric balloon launch site, initially known as Stratocamp, sponsored by the National Geographic Society and the United States Army Air Corps. In 1956–1959 the site was reused by the U.S Navy Project Strato-Lab.\n\nIn 1934 the NGS and Air Corps co-sponsored the \"Explorer\", a manned high-altitude balloon capable of stratospheric flight. After the crash of the Soviet \"Osoaviakhim-1\" that nevertheless set an altitude record of , the sponsors redefined their primary objectives from record-setting to scientific research and tests of new navigation instruments. Air Corps Capt. Albert William Stevens, Capt. Orvil Arson Anderson and Maj. William E. Kepner were selected to fly the \"Explorer\". Kepner and Anderson, experienced balloonists, were in charge of locating a suitable launch site. According to Kepner, an ideal site would be a crater or canyon, a clear grassy valley encircled with rocky ridges high enough to shield the tall balloon from any wind. Ideally, the launch site it would have a high-voltage electric line, road and rail access, \"and a trout stream\". Kepner and Anderson eventually located their dream canyon near Rapid City, South Dakota. City officials, fascinated by the expected publicity campaign, agreed to build a road and electric line.\n\nAnderson directed construction of a temporary village, housing over a 100 people, with the help of the South Dakota National Guard and the army's 4th Cavalry Regiment. The central pad, in diameter, was cushioned with sawdust to protect the fabric of the balloon as it was spread on the ground prior to inflation. Preparation for flight was regularly reported by the national press. \"Explorer\" lifted off at 6:45, July 28, 1934, an event broadcast live over the radio and watched by 30,000 spectators on site. After seven hours in flight the pilots noticed holes torn in the bottom of the gas bag; quickly losing gas, the balloon plunged into an uncontrolled dive, its gas bag disintegrating as the balloon picked up vertical speed. At the remaining hydrogen exploded, sending the gondola in a free fall. According to Ryan, the pilots managed to bail out \"after\" the explosion, Kepner at an altitude of barely ; according to Shayler, they bailed out before the explosion; all three survived uninjured. Later it turned out that the \"Explorer\" missed a world record by . The accident was linked to folds in the balloon's fabric that put it under extreme stress as the balloon expanded in stratosphere.\n\nThe NGS and Air Corps vowed to launch a new balloon in June 1935, but the new helium-filled \"Explorer II\" was not ready until November. Watched by 20,000 spectators, \"Explorer II\" lifted off at 8:00 November 11 and reached a new record height of . Anderson, Kepner, and Stevens became the first men to view the Earth's curvature.\n\nIn the 1950s, Project Manhigh and Project Strato-Lab launches were made from the man-made crater of an iron mining pit near Crosby, Minnesota, and, if weather allowed, from Fleming Field in South St. Paul, Minnesota. The Stratobowl was a backup location. There was one Stratobowl launch in 1956, three in 1958, and seven in 1959. On November 8, 1956, the \"Strato-Lab I\" gondola lifted Malcolm Ross and M. L. Lewis from the Stratobowl to a world altitude record for manned balloon flight of . The purpose of the flight was to gather meteorological, cosmic ray, and other scientific data necessary to improve safety at high altitudes. The most publicized flight, \"Strato-Lab IV\" piloted by Malcolm Ross and Charles B. Moore, lifted off from Stratobowl on November 28, 1959, reached an altitude of , and landed safely in Kansas after 20 hours in the air. The purpose of the flight was to perform spectrographic analysis of the planet Venus with minimal interference from the Earth's atmosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36634339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36634339", "title": "Svante Lindqvist", "text": "Svante Lindqvist\n\nLars Svante Albert Lindqvist (born 26 April 1948) is a Swedish historian who has been the Marshal of the Realm of Sweden and chief of the Royal Court of Sweden from 1 January 2010 until 30 August 2018.\n\nLindqvist is the son of architect Åke E. Lindqvist and Barbro Åström. He holds an MSE in engineering physics from the Royal Institute of Technology since 1977. After contact with Torsten Althin, he had written a thesis with focus on historical technology. He holds a Ph.D in science and ideas history from Uppsala University since 1984. His doctoral dissertation was about the introduction of the steam engine in Sweden in the early 18th century.\n\nLindqvist later became a professor of art history at the Royal Institute of Technology, but left in 1998 to become head of the Nobel Museum, which was inaugurated in 2001.\n\nLindqvist is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 1992, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (KVA) since 1994 and the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities since 2002.\n\nOn 1 July 2009 he was appointed the KVA's praeses, for a three-year term. He was succeeded by Barbara Cannon on 1 July 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44323749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44323749", "title": "Texas Instruments Professional Computer and Professional Portable Computer", "text": "Texas Instruments Professional Computer and Professional Portable Computer\n\nThe Texas Instruments Professional Computer (TIPC) and the Texas Instruments Portable Professional Computer (TIPPC) were devices that were both released on January 31, 1983. The TIPC was a desktop PC and the TIPPC was a fully compatible, portable version of the TIPC. Both computers were most often used by white-collar information workers and professionals who needed to gather, manipulate and transmit information. Texas Instruments (TI) was the first company to release videotape training videos for their computers.\n\nThe TI Professional Computer came with a 14\", 720x300 pixel color monitor, had 512k RAM and contained state-of-the-art, cutting-edge features, including industry-standard software support, easy expandability, a superior and user-friendly QWERTY keyboard, and natural language database options.\n\nThe standard version of the TIPPC had a built-in 9\" monochrome monitor; the upgraded version came with a built-in 9\" color monitor. The graphical capabilities were far superior to the IBM competitor; the TIPPC featured a maximum resolution of 720x300 pixels. The standard device came equipped with 64k RAM but could be expanded to 768k.\n\nAdditionally, both the TIPC and TIPPC were equipped with voice recognition software, allowing the user to speak basic commands to the computers. Both computers also featured an Ethernet card, a new device developed in 1983 by 3COM. The TIPC and the TIPPC were superseded by IBM Personal Computers and compatible machine.\n\n\nhttp://bitsavers.trailing-edge.com/pdf/ti/professional/2223216-001_TIPC_Technical_Reference_Manual_Preliminary_012183.pdf\n"}
{"id": "349218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349218", "title": "Third-party software component", "text": "Third-party software component\n\nIn computer programming, a third-party software component is a reusable software component developed to be either freely distributed or sold by an entity other than the original vendor of the development platform. The third-party software component market thrives because many programmers believe that component-oriented development improves the efficiency and the quality of developing custom applications. Common third-party software includes macros, bots, and software/scripts to be run as add-ons for popular developing software.\n\n"}
{"id": "22563213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22563213", "title": "Timeline of HAL Tejas", "text": "Timeline of HAL Tejas\n\nThis is a timeline of the development of the HAL Tejas, a light-weight, multirole fighter aircraft manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5260175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5260175", "title": "Trimmer (construction)", "text": "Trimmer (construction)\n\nIn light-frame construction, a trimmer is a timber or metal beam (joist) used to create an opening around a stairwell, skylight, chimney, and the like. Trimmers are installed parallel to the primary floor or ceiling joists and support headers, which run perpendicular to the primary joists. \n\nIt can also refer to a jack stud that supports a header above a window or door opening.\n\nTraditionally, a stud which was less than full length was sometimes referred to as a cripple.\n"}
{"id": "19957867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19957867", "title": "Tripp Trapp", "text": "Tripp Trapp\n\nTripp Trapp is an adjustable wooden high chair for children. It was developed by the Norwegian furniture designer Peter Opsvik for the company Stokke AS. Launched in 1972, over time it became a best-selling item. Peter Opsvik is also the designer, in cooperation with Hans Christian Mengshoel, of the original \"Balans\" kneeling chair.\n\nPeter Opsvik noticed that his son Tor had no chair that could position him at the correct height at the family dinner table and enable him to participate with the rest of the family. He then developed a chair that was adjustable and changed with the size of his son as he grew bigger.\n\nTripp Trapp did not sell well in the beginning, but a news segment on Norwegian television in 1974 sparked an interest that has gained strength over the years. By 2016 Tripp Trapp had sold more than 10 million chairs.\n\nTripp Trapp has a seat and footrest that can be adjusted in both height and depth. Thus the chair can be adapted as the child grows. Additionally the chair is correctly spaced and so stable that even a young toddler can climb up into the chair safely by themselves. The Tripp Trapp high chair is made from beechwood with some limited editions in oak.\n"}
{"id": "385717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385717", "title": "Utility cycling", "text": "Utility cycling\n\nUtility cycling encompasses any cycling done simply as a means of transport rather than as a sport or leisure activity. It is the original and most common type of cycling in the world.\n\nUtility or \"transportational\" cycling generally involves traveling short and medium distances (several kilometers, not uncommonly 3–15 kilometers one way, or somewhat longer), often in an urban environment. It includes commuting (i.e. going to work, school or university), going shopping and running errands, as well as heading out to see friends and family or for other social activities.\n\nIt also includes economic activity such as the delivering of goods or services. In cities, the bicycle courier is often a familiar feature, and freight bicycles are capable of competing with trucks and vans particularly where many small deliveries are required, especially in congested areas. Velotaxis can also provide a public transport service like buses and taxicabs.\n\nUtility cycling is known to have several social and economic benefits. Policies that encourage utility cycling have been proposed and implemented for reasons including: improved public health, individual health and employers' profits a reduction in traffic congestion and air pollution, improvements in road traffic safety, improved quality of life, improved mobility and social inclusiveness, and benefits to child development.\n\nIn the Chinese city of Beijing alone, there are an estimated four million bicycles in use (it has been estimated that in the early-1980s there were approximately 500 million cyclists in China). As of 2000, there were an estimated 80 million bicycles in Japan, accounting for 17% of commuter trips, and in the Netherlands, 27% of all trips are made by bicycle.\n\nThe development of the safety bicycle was arguably the most important change in the history of the bicycle. It shifted their use and public perception from being a dangerous toy for sporting young men to being an everyday transport tool for men—and, crucially, women—of all ages.\nBy the start of the 20th Century, cycling had become an important means of transportation, and in the United States an increasingly popular form of recreation. Bicycling clubs for men and women spread across the U.S. and across European countries.\nCycling steadily became more important in Europe over the first half of the twentieth century, but it dropped off dramatically in the United States between 1900 and 1910. Automobiles became the preferred means of transportation. Over the 1920s, bicycles gradually became considered children's toys, and by 1940 most bicycles in the United States were made for children.\nFor most of the twentieth century, the great majority of cycling in the UK took place on roads\n\nUtility bicycles have many standard features to enhance their usefulness and comfort. Chain guards and mudguards, or fenders, protect clothes and moving parts from oil and spray. Kickstands help with parking. Front-mounted wicker or steel baskets for carrying goods are often used. Rear luggage carriers can be used to carry items such as school satchels.\n\nPanniers or special luggage carriers (including waterproof packing bags) enable the transport of goods and are used for shopping. Parents sometimes add rear-mounted child seats and/or an auxiliary saddle fitted to the crossbar to transport children. Trailers of various types and load capacities may be towed to greatly increase cargo capacity. In many jurisdictions bicycles must be fitted with a bell; reflectors; and, after dark, front and rear lights.\n\nThe use by cyclists of vests or armbands fluorescent in daylight or reflective at night can increase a cyclist's conspicuity, although these are not an alternative to a legally compliant lighting system. A report on the promotion of walking and cycling (Hydén, et al., 1999) discussed safety clothing and equipment and stated that \"there is no doubt that both pedestrian reflectors and bicycle helmets are reducing the injury risk of their users quite considerably.\" Protective rain gear is often an essential part of the utility cyclist's wardrobe, especially in countries with high rainfall levels.\nMany different factors combine to influence levels of utility cycling. In developing economies, a large amount of utility cycling may be seen simply because the bicycle is the most affordable form of vehicular transport available to many people. In richer countries, where people can have the choice of a mixture of transport types, a complex interplay of other factors influences the level of bicycle use.\n\nFactors affecting cycling levels may include: town planning (including quality of infrastructure: cyclist \"friendly\" vs. cyclist \"hostile\"), trip-end facilities (particularly secure parking), retail policy, marketing the public image of cycling, integration with other transport modes, cycle training, terrain (hilly vs. flat), distance to destinations, levels of motorized transport and climate as well as cost. In developed countries cycling has to compete with, and work with, alternative transport modes such as private cars, public transport and walking. Thus cycling levels are not influenced just by the attractiveness of cycling alone, but also by what makes the competing modes more or less attractive.\n\nIn developed countries with high utility cycling levels, utility cyclists tend to undertake relatively short journeys. According to Irish 1996 Census data, over 55% of cycling workers travelled 3 miles (4.8 km) or less, 27% 5 miles (8 km) or less and only 17% travelled more than 5 miles in their daily commute. It can be argued that factors that directly influence trip length or journey time are among the most important in making cycling a competitive transport mode. Car ownership rates can also be influential. In New York City, more than half of all households do not own a car (the figure is even higher in Manhattan, over 75%), and walk/bicycle modes of travel account for 21% of all modes for trips in the city.\n\nDecisions taken by various levels of government, as well as local groups, residents' organizations and public- and private-sector employers, can all affect the so-called \"modal choice\" or \"modal split\" in daily transport. In some cases, various factors may be manipulated in a manner that deliberately seeks to encourage or discourage various transport modes, including cycling.\nThe League of American Bicyclists has designated a set of five criteria for evaluating the friendliness of a town or city to bicycles. These criteria are classified under the headings of: Engineering, Encouragement, Evaluation and Planning, Education, Enforcement.\n\nTrip length and journey times are key factors affecting cycle use. Town planning may have a key effect in deciding whether key destinations, schools, shops, colleges, health clinics, public transport interchanges remain within a reasonable cycling distance of the areas where people live. The urban form can influence these issues, compact and circular settlement patterns tending to promote cycling. Alternatively, the low-density, non-circular (i.e., linear) settlement patterns characteristic of urban sprawl tends to discourage cycling. In 1990, the Dutch adopted the \"ABC\" guidelines, specifically limiting developments that are major attractants to locations that are readily accessible by non-car users.\nSettlements that provide a dense road network consisting of interconnected streets will tend to be viable utility cycling environments. In contrast, other communities may use a cul-de-sac based, housing estate/housing subdivision model where minor roads are disconnected and only feed into a street hierarchy of progressively more \"arterial\" type roads. Such communities may discourage cycling by imposing unnecessary detours and forcing all cyclists onto arterial roads, which may be perceived as busy and dangerous, for all trips regardless of destination or purpose.\n\nThere is evidence that people who live in such estates are heavier than people who live in places where walking and cycling are more convenient. It is also reported that the extra motor-traffic such communities generate tends to increase overall per-capita traffic casualty rates. Designs that propose to resolve the contradiction between the cul-de-sac and the traditional interconnected network, such as the Fused Grid, have been proposed and built with varying levels of success. Particular issues have arisen with personal security and public order problems in some housing schemes using \"back alley\" or \"back garden\" type links. The UK \"Manual for Roads\" (2007) states: \"The basic tenet is ‘public fronts and private backs’. Ideally, and certainly, in terms of crime prevention, back gardens should adjoin other back gardens or a secure communal space. ... If streets are bounded by back-garden fences or hedges, security problems can increase, drivers may be encouraged to speed, land is inefficiently used, and there is a lack of a sense of place.\".\n\nCycling is a common mode of transport in the Netherlands, with 36% of the people listing the bicycle as their most frequent mode of transport on a typical day as opposed to the car by 45% and public transport by 11%. Cycling has a modal share of 27% of all trips (urban and rural) nationwide. \n\nThis high modal share for bicycle travel is enabled by unusually flat topography, excellent cycling infrastructure such as cycle paths, cycle tracks, protected intersections, ample bicycle parking and by making cycling routes shorter, quicker and more direct than car routes.\n\nIn the countryside, a growing number of inter-city bicycle paths connect the Netherlands' villages, towns and cities: some of these paths are part of the Dutch National Cycle Network, a network of routes for bicycle tourism which reaches all corners of the nation.\n\nIn cities modal share for bicycles is even higher, such as Amsterdam which has 38%.\n\nAs with other activities, cycling can be promoted by marketing. Promotors may include official agencies and authorities.\n\nTwo themes predominate in cycling promotion 1) the benefits for the cyclist and 2) the benefits for society and the environment that may occur if more people choose to cycle. The benefits for the cyclist tend to focus issues like reduced journey times in congested urban conditions and the health benefits which the cyclist obtains through regular exercise. Societal benefits focus on general environmental and public health issues. Promotional messages and tactics may include:\n\nVarious interests may wish to portray a negative image of utility cycling on public roads for various reasons. Some governments, wishing to promote private car use, have organized and funded publicity designed to discourage road cycling. Official road safety organisations have been accused of distributing literature that emphasizes the danger of cycling on roads while failing to address attitudinal issues among the drivers of motor vehicles who are the main source of road danger. Some road safety authorities have been accused of having a deliberate policy of discouraging cycling as a means of reducing bicyclist casualty statistics. In 2003, Shanghai police officials released statements blaming cyclists as the cause of \"gridlock\" in the city and promoting plans to ban cyclists from the city streets. Starting in the 1970s, the authorities in the city of Jakarta declared \"war\" on the \"becak\" or Indonesian cycle rickshaw blaming them for traffic congestion among other things.\n\nAs with other sellers of consumer goods, the car industry's marketing efforts frequently try to associate the use of their product with a perception of increased social status. Observers in some car-focused cultures have noted a tendency to perceive or portray people who use bicycles as members of a social \"out-group\" with attributed negative connotations. In such cultures, such attitudes are displayed in attacks on cyclists in the media. Common themes include blanket descriptions of cyclists as a group who do not pay taxes, who break the law and who have no, or reduced, \"right\" to use public roads.\n\nIf significant use of bicycles for shopping trips is to be achieved, sufficient retail services must be maintained within reasonable cycling distances of residential areas. In countries like Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany the high levels of utility cycling also includes shopping trips e.g. 9% of all shopping trips in Germany are by bicycle. It is arguable that this is related to policies that favour access to retail services by non-motorised modes. The Danish 1997 Planning Act requires that planning shall encourage a diverse mix of retail shops in small and medium-sized towns and in individual districts of large cities and ensure that retail trade uses will be placed in locations to which people have good access by walking, bicycling and public transport. From the mid-1970s the Netherlands has had policies in place to severely restrict the growth of large out-of-town retail developments. Germany has had federal planning regulations in place to restrict retail uses to designated areas since the 1960s. In addition, since the 1970s federal regulations have been in place specifying that developments above a certain size (1,200 m²) be assessed regarding potential adverse effects. These federal regulations are further strengthened by regionally adopted regulations. This includes regulations specifying that new retail centers be limited to selling products not readily provided by shops at inner city/town center locations. In Denmark, the Netherlands, and Germany, this approach not restricted to planning guidelines and is also supported by a ban on below-cost selling. This supports smaller shops by preventing large multiples from engaging in predatory pricing practices by aggressively discounting key goods to use as so-called loss leaders.\n\nFrom the 1980s to mid-1990s the UK operated a system of \"laissez-faire\" with regard to retail policy. The \"great car economy\" philosophy of the Thatcher government directly favored the growth of out-of-town retail centers at the expense of established retail services in British towns and cities. The UK Town and Country Planning Association cites research by the New Economics Foundation that notes a continuing process of change in retail provision.\n\nIt is arguable that in such a retail/planning policy environment use of bicycles ceases to be a viable option for many shoppers and access to a private motor-car or public transport becomes a necessary prerequisite for access to basic services.\n\nCycle training is another measure that is advocated as a means of maintaining or increasing levels of cycle use. The training involves teaching existing or potential cyclists bike handling, various roadcraft or \"cyclecraft\" skills (vehicular cycling) and educating them on the safe, lawful use of the roads. Bicycle training schemes can be differentiated according to whether they are aimed at children or adults.\n\nIn the UK, the now superseded \"National Cycle Proficiency\" scheme was focused on primary schoolchildren aged 8 and above. In this, children would start by gaining an off-road certificate working up to their on-road certificate by the age of ten. Initial training and examination took place on simulated road layouts within school playgrounds. This approach has now been supplemented by the new \"National Standard\" for cycle training which is more focussed on practical on-road training. This is part of Cycling England's portfolio of practical assistance to local authorities and other bodies, aimed at achieving their aim of \"More cycling, more safely, more often\".\n\nIn the United States, the League of American Bicyclists Smart Cycling 101/201 courses, based on the Effective Cycling program, has modules aimed at all ages from children to adult beginners to more experienced adults. It is argued that such schemes do not just build confidence in the students but also make it more likely that parents will let their children cycle to school. Cycle training may also be offered in an attempt to overcome cultural unfamiliarity with cycling or perceived cultural obstacles to bicycle use. In the Netherlands, some cycle training courses are targeted at women from immigrant communities, as a means of overcoming such obstacles to cycling by women from developing countries.\n\nAs with other walks of life, utility cyclists may form associations in order to promote and develop cycling as an everyday form of transport. The European Cyclists' Federation is the umbrella body for such groups in Europe. These associations may lobby various institutions to encourage political support or to oppose measures that they judge counter-productive, such as to oppose the introduction of compulsory bicycle helmet legislation.\n\nLocal bike-sharing schemes, a business which blossomed at the turn of the 21st century, are more oriented to utility cycling than other bike rentals.\n\nModern bicycle technology supports the shift towards utility cycling:\n\n"}
{"id": "3959600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3959600", "title": "Visual music", "text": "Visual music\n\nVisual music, sometimes called colour music, refers to the use of musical structures in visual imagery, which can also include silent films or silent Lumia work. It also refers to methods or devices which can translate sounds or music into a related visual presentation. An expanded definition may include the translation of music to painting; this was the original definition of the term, as coined by Roger Fry in 1912 to describe the work of Wassily Kandinsky. There are a variety of definitions of visual music, particularly as the field continues to expand. In some recent writing, usually in the fine art world, visual music is often confused with or defined as synaesthesia, though historically this has never been a definition of visual music. Visual music has also been defined as a form of intermedia.\n\nVisual music also refers to systems which convert music or sound directly into visual forms, such as film, video, computer graphics, installations or performances by means of a mechanical instrument, an artist's interpretation, or a computer. The reverse is applicable also, literally converting images to sound by drawn objects and figures on a film's soundtrack, in a technique known as drawn or graphical sound. Famous visual music artists include Jordan Belson, Oskar Fischinger, Norman McLaren, John Whitney Sr., and Thomas Wilfred, plus a number contemporary artists. \n\n\"Since ancient times artists have longed to create with moving lights a music for the eye comparable to the effects of sound for the ear.\"<br>– Dr. William Moritz, the best-known historian of \"visual music\" writing in English, his speciality being the work of Oskar Fischinger. \n\nSometimes also called \"color music\", the history of this tradition includes many experiments with color organs. Artist or inventors \"built instruments, usually called 'color organs,' that would display modulated colored light in some kind of fluid fashion comparable to music\". For example, the \"Farblichtspiele\" ('coloured-light-plays') of former Bauhaus student Ludwig Hirschfeld Mack. Several different definitions of color music exist; one is that color music is generally formless projections of colored light. Some scholars and writers have used the term color music interchangeably with visual music.\n\nThe construction of instruments to perform visual music live, as with sonic music, has been a continuous concern of this art. Color organs, while related, form an earlier tradition extending as early as the eighteenth century with the Jesuit Louis Bertrand Castel building an \"ocular harpsichord\" in the 1730s (visited by Georg Philipp Telemann, who composed for it). Other prominent color organ artist-inventors include: Alexander Wallace Rimington, Bainbridge Bishop, Thomas Wilfred, Charles Dockum, Mary Hallock-Greenewalt and Kurt Laurenz Theinert.\n\nVisual music and abstract film or video often coincide. Some of the earliest known films of these two genres were hand-painted works produced by the Futurists Bruno Corra and Arnaldo Ginna between 1911 and 1912 (as they report in the Futurist Manifesto of Cinema), which are now lost. Mary Hallock-Greenewalt produced several reels of hand-painted films (although not traditional motion pictures) that are held by the Historical Society of Philadelphia. Like the Futurist films, and many other visual music films, her 'films' were meant to be a visualization of musical form.\n\nNotable visual music filmmakers include: Walter Ruttmann, Hans Richter, Viking Eggeling, Oskar Fischinger, Len Lye, Jordan Belson, Norman McLaren, Mary Ellen Bute (who made a series of films she called Seeing Sound films), Harry Smith, Hy Hirsh, John and James Whitney, Steven Woloshen and many others up to present day.\n\nIn 2005, a US exhibition called \"Visual Music\" at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art and The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington DC included documentation of color organs and featured many visual music films and videos as well as paintings and some color organs.\n\nThe Center for Visual Music in Los Angeles has the world's largest collection of visual music resources. CVM owns the papers, films and much animation artwork of Oskar Fischinger; the original research collection of visual music historian Dr. William Moritz; numerous restored films by Jordan Belson; and an extensive collection of restored films by Mary Ellen Bute, John and James Whitney, Jules Engel, Charles Dockum and others. CVM consulted for and provided films, stills and research for the above-mentioned blockbuster Visual Music exhibition; CVM now provides visual music films, programs, events and talks to museums, archives, festivals and cultural centres worldwide, in addition to curating and developing its own museum exhibitions (recently, Oskar Fischinger: Experiments in Cinematic Abstraction, in Amsterdam). The Fischinger three-projector reconstruction, Raumlichtkunst, was restored and curated by CVM, and has been exhibited at the Whitney Museum NY, Tate Modern London, Len Lye Centre New Zealand, and other museums and galleries worldwide. CVM recently released the second Oskar Fischinger DVD, as well as a compilation Visual Music from CVM Archive DVD with films by Jordan Belson, Bute, Dockum, Engel and Barry Spinello. A summer 2018 CVM Visual Music symposium in California is being organized.\n\nArtist Larry Cuba, founded the iota Fund in 1994, which was later called iotaCenter. They currently own the films of such artists as Sara Petty, Adam Beckett, some of the films of Jules Engel, Sky David, Robert Darroll and others. They hosted the renowned Kinetica programs (1999–2003) touring the world introducing new audiences to the wonders of visual music.\n\n The cathode ray tube made possible the oscilloscope, an early electronic device that can produce images that are easily associated with sounds from microphones. The modern Laser lighting display displays wave patterns produced by similar circuitry. The imagery used to represent audio in digital audio workstations is largely based on familiar oscilloscope patterns.\nThe Animusic company (originally called 'Visual Music') has repeatedly demonstrated the use of computers to convert music — principally pop-rock based and composed as MIDI events — to animations. Graphic artist-designed virtual instruments which either play themselves or are played by virtual objects are all, along with the sounds, controlled by MIDI instructions.\n\nIn the image-to-sound sphere, MetaSynth includes a feature which converts images to sounds. The tool uses drawn or imported bitmap images, which can be manipulated with graphic tools, to generate new sounds or process existing audio. A reverse function allows the creation of images from sounds.\n\nSome media player software generates animated imagery or music visualization based on a piece of recorded music:\n\nWith the increasing popularity of head mounted displays for virtual reality there is an emerging new platform for visual music. While some developers have been focused on the impact of virtual reality on live music or on the possibilities for music videos, virtual reality is also an emerging field for music visualization and visual music.\n\nMany composers have applied graphic notation to write compositions. Pioneering examples are the graphical scores of John Cage and Morton Feldman. Also known is the graphical score of György Ligetis Artikulation designed by Rainer Wehinger.\n\nMusical theorists such as Harry Partch, Erv Wilson, Ivor Darreg, Glenn Branca, and Yuri Landman applied geometry in detailed visual musical diagrams explaining microtonal structures and musical scales.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9742707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9742707", "title": "Waste pond", "text": "Waste pond\n\nA waste pond or chemical pond is a small impounded water body used for the disposal of water pollutants, and sometimes utilized as a method of recycling or decomposing toxic substances. Such waste ponds may be used for regular disposal of pollutant materials or may be used as upset receivers for special pollution events. Often, chemical ponds themselves are addressed for cleanup action after their useful life is over or when a risk of groundwater contamination arises. Peak usage of waste ponds in the United States occurred in the period 1955 to 1985, after which the environmental risks of pond technology were sufficiently understood, such that alternative technologies for waste disposal gradually began to displace many of the waste ponds. Waste ponds often have pond liners, such as concrete or robust synthetic polymeric materials, to prevent infiltration of chemicals to soil or groundwater.\n\nOne example of a chemical pond is situated in the woods of Piscataway, New Jersey. It was used by Union Carbide during the active phase of plant operation. Its main use was for drainage of chemicals. Hazardous and exotic chemicals would go down drains in the plant to the pond and later be pumped back to the factory via two large pumps. There it would be distilled to remove acetone and other hazardous chemicals from the mix. This process was overall harmful to the environment and polluted the groundwater.\n\nThe United States Oak Ridge National Laboratory operated for more than 50 years, performing research and production at its facility in the Melton Valley area of the Oak Ridge Reservation, in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, before it was decommissioned in the mid 1960s. One of the results of this activity was a waste pond, which was contaminated with radioactive waste including strontium-90, caesium-137; tritium, and transuranics.\nDuring the 1970s, the pond was backfilled with clay and shale, and finally capped with asphalt. \n\nIn the mid 1990s, as a temporary solution to concerns that soil and sediments could migrate into nearby streams and, ultimately, reservoirs used for recreation and drinking water supplies, Department of Energy officials installed a cryogenic stabilization system at the waste pond, freezing the soil and groundwater to a depth of approximately around the pond, thereby forming a barrier to groundwater leaching. \n\nIn February 2004, the cryogenic system was dismantled, replaced with a temporary thermal foam blanket to keep the soil cold, and the pond was excavated. The soil in the areas surrounding the frozen pond contained lower levels of contamination than the pond itself, but enough contamination that it had to be removed. Approximately of soil were removed from the surrounding areas. Another of soil were excavated from the pond itself.\n\n"}
