{"id": "46198584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46198584", "title": "1969 Baghdad hangings", "text": "1969 Baghdad hangings\n\nOn 27 January 1969, Iraqi authorities hanged 14 alleged spies (nine Jews, three Muslims and two Christians) for Israel in a public execution in Baghdad.\n\nBy 1969, Iraq's Jewish community had shrunk from more than 130,000 in 1948 to less than 3,000 due to mass emigration caused the establishment of the State of Israel, the subsequent Arab-Israeli wars, and anti-Jewish persecution.\n\nThe lopsided defeat suffered by the Arab states, including Iraq, against Israel in the June 1967 Six-Day War further increased discrimination against Iraq's remaining Jews: \"They were dismissed from government jobs, their bank accounts were frozen and they were confined to house arrest, among other restrictions.\"\n\nIn July 1968, the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party took control of Iraq in a bloodless coup. The new government was weak and was in constant fear that it would itself be the target of a coup. After the Israeli Air Force struck an Iraqi military position in northern Jordan on 4 December 1968 in retaliation for the shelling of Israeli communities in the Galilee, the Ba'athist regime began \"hunting down an American-Israeli spy ring it said was trying to destabilize Iraq.\" The authorities began arresting alleged conspirators shortly thereafter, including twelve Jewish men from Baghdad and Basra.\n\n\"Baghdad Radio\" invited citizens to Liberation Square on January 27 to \"come and enjoy the feast.\" 500,000 people reportedly attended the hangings, and danced and celebrated before the corpses of the convicted spies. Nine of the fourteen hanged were Jews. The remaining three Jews of the initial twelve arrested were executed on 26 August 1969.\n\nThe nine Jewish victims were:\nThe executions led to significant international criticism, with United States Secretary of State William P. Rogers condemning Iraq's actions as \"repugnant to the conscience of the world\" and Egypt's \"Al-Ahram\" cautioning: \"The hanging of fourteen people in the public square is certainly not a heart-warming sight, nor is it the occasion for organizing a spectacle.\" By contrast, the Soviet Union's official radio called the executions \"fully justified,\" while Charles de Gaulle of France said they could not be divorced from the broader Arab–Israeli conflict. \"Baghdad Radio\" rebutted Iraq's critics: \"We hanged spies, but the Jews crucified Christ.\" According to author Kanan Makiya, the negative publicity \"has less to do with the activities of a Zionist lobby as the Ba'ath claimed, as much as it was the outcome of the deliberately public nature of the proceedings. Later the Ba'ath learnt the art of sealing out the outside world.\" The persecution of Iraq's Jews continued after the spy trials: \"By the time of the August executions, 51 Jews had been killed by the regime in 1969 alone; 100 more were imprisoned or tortured.\" In the early 1970s, nearly all of Iraq's Jewish population left after being permitted to leave. Only a small number stayed behind, largely those who were too old to travel.\n\nMakiya credits the hangings with helping the Ba'athist government consolidate control of Iraq, stating: \"The terror that, from a Ba'athist viewpoint, was premature and badly handled in 1963, worked and was skillfully deployed the second time around.\"\n"}
{"id": "52331783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52331783", "title": "A Hoàng", "text": "A Hoàng\n\nA Hoàng (born 1995) is a Vietnamese footballer who plays as a Defender for V-League club Hoàng Anh Gia Lai F.C..2913\n"}
{"id": "520539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=520539", "title": "Ace of spades", "text": "Ace of spades\n\nThe ace of spades (also known as the spadille) is traditionally the highest and most valued card in the deck of playing cards, at least in English-speaking countries. The actual value of the card varies from game to game.\n\nThe ornate design of the ace of spades, common in packs today, stems from the 17th century, when James I and later Queen Anne imposed laws requiring the ace of spades to bear an insignia of the printing house. Stamp duty, an idea imported to England by Charles I, was extended to playing cards in 1711 by Queen Anne and lasted until 1960.\n\nOver the years a number of methods were used to show that duty had been paid. From 1712 onwards, one of the cards in the pack, usually the ace of spades, was marked with a hand stamp. In 1765 hand stamping was replaced by the printing of official ace of spades by the Stamp Office, incorporating the royal coat of arms. In 1828 the Duty Ace of Spades (known as \"Old Frizzle\") was printed to indicate a reduced duty of a shilling had been paid.\n\nThe system was changed again in 1862 when official threepenny duty wrappers were introduced and although the makers were free to use whatever design they wanted, most chose to keep the ornate ace of spades that is popular today. The ace of spades is thus used to show the card manufacturer's information.\n\nThe exact design of the ace card was so important, it eventually became the subject of design patents and trademarking. For example, on December 5, 1882, George G. White was granted US design patent US0D0013473 for his design. His ace design was adorned with male and female figures leaning onto the spade from either side.\n\nThe ace of spades has been employed, on numerous occasions, in the theater of war. In the Second World War, the soldiers of the 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment of the American 101st Airborne Division were marked with the spades symbol painted on the sides of their helmets. In this capacity, it was used to represent good luck, due to its fortunate connotations in card playing. All four card suits were used for ease of identification of regiments within the airborne division following the confusion of a large scale combat airborne operation. Battalions within the regiments were denoted with tic marks or dots, marked from top clockwise: headquarters at the twelve o'clock position, 1st Battalion at the three o'clock, etc.\n\nSome twenty years later, a folk legend about the ace of spades being used by American Soldiers during the Vietnam War was popularized. Supposedly, US troops believed that Vietnamese traditions held the symbolism of the spade to mean death and ill-fortune and in a bid to frighten and demoralize Viet Cong soldiers, it was common practice to mockingly leave an ace of spades on the bodies of killed Vietnamese and even to litter the forested grounds and fields with the card. This custom was said to be so effective that the United States Playing Card Company was asked by Charlie Company, 2nd Battalion, 35th Infantry Regiment to supply crates of that single card in bulk. The crates were often marked with \"Bicycle Secret Weapon\". The ace of spades, while not a symbol of superstitious fear to the Viet Cong forces, did help the morale of American soldiers. It was not unheard of for US Soldiers and Marines to stick this card in their helmet band as a sort of anti-peace sign.\n\nMore recently, in 2003 a deck of most-wanted Iraqi playing cards was issued to US Soldiers during Operation Iraqi Freedom, each card had the picture of a wanted Iraqi official on it. Saddam Hussein got the nickname \"Ace of Spades\" as that card bore his image.\n\nVarious idioms involving the ace of spades include \"black as the ace of spades\" (which can refer either to color or to race), or alternatively a lack of cleanliness in a person and the French expression \"fagoté comme l'as de pique\"—that is, \"(badly) dressed like the ace of spades.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41166844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41166844", "title": "Ali ibn Faramurz", "text": "Ali ibn Faramurz\n\nAli ibn Faramurz (Persian: علی بن فرامرز), was the Kakuyid Emir of Yazd and Abarkuh. He was the son of Faramurz.\n\nIn 1076/1077, Ali married a daughter of Chaghri Beg named Arslan Katun, who was the widow of the Abbasid Caliph Al-Qa'im (1031-1075). Ali was a faithful vassal Seljuk and spent most of his reign at the court of the Seljuq Malik-Shah I in Isfahan. He was a patron of the Persian poet Mu'izzi who made some poems dedicated to him.\n\nAfter the death of Malik-Shah I in 1092, Ali supported his brother Tutush I that dominated the western part of the Seljuq Empire, and considered his right to the throne more superior than Barkiyaruq. Tutush, however, was decisively defeated in a battle near Ray in 1095, where he and Ali were killed. Ali was succeeded by his son Garshasp II.\n\n"}
{"id": "8775298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8775298", "title": "Animal Crackers (comic strip)", "text": "Animal Crackers (comic strip)\n\nAnimal Crackers is the title of several syndicated newspaper comics over the years. The first was a 1930 comic strip signed by an artist known simply as Lane.\n\nThe second \"Animal Crackers\" was a cartoon panel by Dick Ryan and Warren Goodrich (1913–2002) that was published intermittently from 1937 through 1957. In some papers it ran as Animal Krackers.\n\nThe third began in 1967 and continues today, distributed by Tribune Content Agency and appearing on Andrews McMeel Universal's GoComics, which is run by Universal Uclick.\n\n\"The San Francisco Chronicle\" described \"Animal Crackers\" as a \"snappy little one-frame strip [that] featured a variety of animal life dealing with various silly situations of a human nature\" and as a comic panel \"which went on to acclaim in syndication.\" The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" printed the comic panel on its front page next to the weather report. \"Animal Crackers\" was syndicated by the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" to over 100 papers.\n\nGoodrich recalled about the strip, \"I used animals to relate human foibles with a little twist. Sometimes it would work, and sometimes it wouldn't. It seems the funny things are just short of tragic.\"\n\nIn later years, Goodrich drew a spin-off cartoon series, \"Creatures\", collected in the book \"Creatures Or Not So Dumb Animals\" (Eden East Press, 2001). Although Goodrich drew his animal cartoons for years and then wrote newspaper columns (\"Travelin' Man\") and several books (\"An Artist's Life\"), his lasting fame came with a single drawing, \"The Little Man,\" which he drew in 1942. Used alongside \"San Francisco Chronicle\" film reviews as a movie rating system, this Goodrich device was praised by Roger Ebert, Gerald Nachman, Austin Kleon, and other writers.\n\nRoger Bollen drew the strip through 1994, and then Fred Wagner took over until his death in 2016. The strip is now drawn by long-time \"Animal Crackers\" writer, Mike Osbun. It features a group of animals who live in a fictional jungle called Freeborn. This strip was adapted into a cartoon television series in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43584604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43584604", "title": "Apollo Sea", "text": "Apollo Sea\n\nThe MV \"Apollo Sea\" was a Chinese-owned, Panamanian-registered bulk carrier which sank near Cape Town in June 1994. Leaking oil from the sunken vessel caused a major environmental disaster which resulted in the death of thousands of seabirds, including endangered African penguins. All of the ship's 36 crew members died in the sinking, which apparently occurred so quickly that no general distress signals were given. The first public indication that the ship had sunk was the appearance of penguins covered with oil. The source of the slick was initially believed to be the wreck of the supertanker \"Castillo de Bellver\", but this theory was disproven and the slick was instead traced to the wreck of the \"Apollo Sea\". The vessel had been loaded with 2,400 tonnes (2,700 cubic metres) of heavy fuel oil when she left port four hours before she sank. Later it was revealed that an automated distress signal had been sent directly to the owners via satellite from the approximate location of the oil spill, and the owners eventually admitted the loss of the vessel and accepted responsibility for the spill.\n\nGale-force winds hampered attempts to protect Cape Town from the emerging oil slick, and city beaches were streaked with oil. The oil affected the breeding grounds of the endangered African penguin on Dassen Island. Attempts were made to evacuate penguins to the mainland, but efforts were impeded by the rough weather.\n\n10,000 penguins were collected and cleaned. Of those, approximately 5,000 survived. Six years later, the region's seabird rookeries were threatened by a similar incident; the MV \"Treasure\" oil spill.\n\n"}
{"id": "12267979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12267979", "title": "Archduke Wilhelm Franz of Austria", "text": "Archduke Wilhelm Franz of Austria\n\nArchduke Wilhelm Franz Karl of Austria-Teschen (German: Erzherzog Wilhelm Franz Karl von Habsburg-Lothringen, 21 April 1827 – 29 April 1894) was an Archduke of Austria from the House of Habsburg.\n\nHe was born in Vienna as the son of Archduke Charles, Duke of Teschen (1771–1847) and Princess Henrietta of Nassau-Weilburg (1797–1829). He was a grandson of Leopold II (1747–1792) and nephew of Franz II (1768–1835), the last two Holy Roman Emperors.\n\nHe held the office of Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights from 1863 until his death in 1894. He gained the rank of \"Feldzeugmeister\" in the service of the Austrian Army in January 1867, after commanding the artillery and being wounded at the Battle of Königgrätz (1866). He was Governor of the Federal Fortress of Mainz.\n\nArchduke Wilhelm of Austria died unmarried and without issue on 29 July 1894 in Weikersdorf after falling from a horse. He had been riding in Baden when his horse was frightened by a motor car. The horse bolted, and the Archduke was thrown. One of his feet remained stuck in the stirrup, and he was dragged more than 100 yards. He died without regaining consciousness. His death was attributed to a concussion on the brain. The archduke was 67 years old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26411991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26411991", "title": "Beating heart cadaver", "text": "Beating heart cadaver\n\nA beating heart cadaver is a body that is pronounced dead in all medical and legal definitions, connected to a medical ventilator, and retains cardio-pulmonary functions. This keeps the organs of the body, including the heart, functioning and alive. As a result, the period of time in which the organs may be used for transplantation is extended. The heart contains pacemaker cells that will cause the heart to continue beating even when a patient is brain-dead. Other organs in the body do not have this capability and need the brain to be functioning to send signals to the organs to carry out their functions. A beating heart cadaver requires a ventilator to provide oxygen to its blood, but the heart will continue to beat on its own even in the absence of brain activity. This allows organs to be preserved for a longer period of time in the case of a transplant or donation. A small number of cases in recent years indicate that it can also be implemented for a brain-dead pregnant woman to reach the full term of her pregnancy. There is an advantage to beating heart cadaver organ donation because doctors are able to see the vitals of the organs and tell if they are stable and functioning before transplanting to an ailing patient.\nThis is not possible in a donation from someone pronounced dead. There is a stigma around beating heart cadavers regarding the accuracy doctors have in pronouncing someone brain dead due to recent discoveries of brain activity in subjects that were classified as \"brain-dead\".\nIn addition, the organ donation world is desperate to widen its pool of donors to meet the ever-increasing demand from heightened rates of organ destroying diseases. As diseases progress, the functionality of organs is diminished and for some, a new organ is the only chance of survival. Heart disease, diabetes, and respiratory disease are among the leading causes of death worldwide and each condition could be improved if a new organ is received. However, some argue that using another person’s body purely as a means to an end, dehumanizes the patient.\n\nThe observed phenomena of lifelike qualities after death is not a new concept. In René Descartes' \"Discourse on the Method\", he notes that decapitated animals move and display characteristics of a living body a few seconds after decapitation which was published in 1637. This continued into the French Revolution where it was observed that people who had been beheaded showed movements in facial muscles and hearts could continue to beat for almost an hour past the time of beheading. The guillotine in some cases did not completely sever head from body. In 1875 an examiner named Pierre Jean Cabanis was assigned the duty of making sure a body was truly dead. There were also stories involving beheadings where the victims would stand up and walk around before falling dead. The ambiguity around brain death and true death has followed it to present day. In an effort to clarify some of these gray areas, the Harvard Medical Committee developed criteria for identifying a body as dead in 1968. These criteria required patients to be completely unaware and unresponsive to external stimuli, have no spontaneous muscle movements, and exhibit no reflexive response even when manipulated. They also required that an electroencephalography (EEG) show no signs of activity. The purpose of this report was to encourage physicians to distinguish brain death and irreversible coma from a persistent vegetative state where the patient still has some awareness and cycles through sleep and wakefulness.\n\nIn 1971 a similar Minnesota criteria was published eliminating the EEG, repeating the exam after 12 hours, a severe lesion in the brain, and increasing the duration of the apnea test to four minutes rather than Harvard's three minute guideline. Other slight changes in the next decades included the United Kingdom's decision to eliminate the repetition of the exam and change from a duration of the apnea test to specified levels of CO in 1976. Later, in 1981 the President's Commission reinstated the apnea test and the repeat exam. Unfortunately, in a study done in 1989 only 35% of health care physicians correctly identified brain death using these criteria. A serious cause for concern. Presently, there is hot debate over the protocol for diagnosing someone as brain dead and there are not currently any enforced standard procedures for assessing a body. The unofficial standards have improved and become more specified in recent years due to the development of medical technology.\n\nThe American Academy of Neurology created a prerequisite and neurological clinical assessment to be used as guidelines for determining brain death published in 2010. To be considered for brain death the body must have a determinant cause of coma, have normal systolic blood pressure, and pass two neurological tests. These neurological assessments commonly consist of an apnea test, reflex tests where the body is manipulated or exposed to a stimulus and does not react, or be in a coma where there is complete unresponsiveness. Cerebral angiography, electroencephalography, transcranial doppler ultrasonography, and cerebral scintigraphy are some of the tests that are used to test if there is any significant brain activity.\n\nCaring for a beating heart cadaver is similar to caring for a living patient. Since the brain has stopped functioning, the hormone levels and blood pressure must be regulated by intensive care unit (ICU) personnel. The protocol for preserving the cadaver aims to prevent infection and maintain adequate oxygenation of tissue. The cadaver's status must be continuously monitored, so that ICU staff can prevent organ failure or quickly operate to save threatened organs.\n\nA beating heart cadaver is kept alive in order to keep its organs from decaying before they can be transplanted. Surgeons will remove the organs, one after the other, and have them transferred to the recipients' treating teams. The entire recovery process is usually completed within four hours. This process was formerly known as an \"organ harvest\", but the name has since changed to the milder \"organ recovery\". Many organs can be extracted, and many lives can be saved by one body. The bodies are generally those of organ donors, who have either given first-person consent to become an organ donor, presumptive consent by not explicitly declining to donate or whose legal next-of-kin makes the decision to donate. Some donated organs are taken from non-heart-beating donors. Organs from brain deaths, however, have a better success rate, and currently most organ donation is from these deaths.\n\nHow long the brain-dead person is kept on the ventilator may vary depending on the availability of surgical teams and the wishes of the family of that brain-dead person. Although it is claimed the brain-dead patient cannot feel pain, an anesthesiologist is regularly present at organ donation surgical procedures. Due to the results of the apnea test if a person lacks the brain function to breathe unassisted, it is concluded that it would also lack the brain function to relay the sensation of pain. The anesthesiologist's main role is to ensure that muscle spasms or reflexes do not occur during the procedure. Though the brain may be dead, the pathway that reflexes follow does not pass from the stimulus in the body to the brain. Instead the spinal cord coordinates the knee-jerk reactions of reflexes including pulling back from the pain of putting a hand in an open flame or jerking away from an invasive incision. When the brain is dead these pathways remain intact and the anesthesiologist is present to ensure that these reactions do not complicate the procedure.\n\nPregnancy can be prolonged after brain death. It is then possible to deliver the baby by means of caesarian section. Cadavers have been reported to support a fetus for a period of 107 days. After delivering the baby, some cadavers have subsequently become organ donors. Since 1981 there have been 22 recorded instances of keeping a mother declared brain dead in a beating heart cadaver state until the baby is delivered.\n\nA review of 11 of these unique circumstance pregnancies was conducted in 2000. Four of these cases involved a persistent vegetative state of the mother and in 7 maternal brain death was diagnosed. The women that underwent these gestation periods all delivered preterm an average of 30.5 weeks, where a normal pregnancy is around 35 weeks for full term. The mothers were observed to have severe hypotension once in the brain dead or vegetative state and in all but one case the baby was delivered by cesarian section. It has also been found that by the 24th week of pregnancy intensive care is not as necessary and the mother is more stable than treatment occurring before the 24th week. Common complications involved inability to regulate temperature which is treated with heating and cooling blankets, as well as failure of the endocrine system which is important in maintaining a stable fetal environment. Following the delivery of the baby, organs of the mother are harvested as well.\n\nFrom an ethical perspective the family and next of kin are often involved in the decision to terminate or prolong the pregnancy. This can be a difficult decision given the level of care required to keep the mothers living for the duration of their gestation which can vary. Intensive care of a vegetative state patient is not usually advised due to the dismal chances of recovery, but in the case that the fetus could survive this care is often justified and administered at the discretion of the family. Intense counseling and advisement by physicians and neonatal experts often accompanies these rare situations.\n\nBrain death is defined loosely as the inability to breathe on one's own, with irreversible brain damage. The use of the term \"beating heart cadaver\" stemmed from the idea that a person considered brain dead no longer has the legal rights of a \"patient\" and should not be referred to as such. When doctors take away ventilation systems and patients fail to breathe, move, or show any signs of arousal on their own they are considered brain dead. This test is called an apnea test. The ventilator is taken away and is reconnected only if the person decided to be an organ donor. This definition can create some cognitive dissonance because not responding to stimulation may show a problem with the central nervous system, yet when someone has a beating heart and lungs that will still function with the help of a ventilator it is difficult for some to consider that true death. Brain death patients have characteristics of the living and the dead.\n\nOrgan recovery from beating heart cadavers has remained ambiguous to the public. There is a guideline for organ transplantation consisting of two parts. It states that organ donors must be dead before removing the organs, and removing the organs is not the cause of death.\nThis clause is in place to ensure that organ donation is not exploited to use people purely as a means to an end. However, many believe that even with these guidelines in place the protocol for organ donation still has room for criticism. Negative reviews from public and medical personnel on this subject tend to stem from a lack of understanding of what it means to be considered brain dead and how these decisions are made. One social issue that is commonly brought up is the potential for conflict of interest for the medical team examining the body. Another issue raising concerns in the organ donation by beating heart cadaver field is the administration of drugs to the patient that prevent clotting prior the donation procedure. These drugs are not beneficial to the patient and are intended solely to help the recipient of the organs. To alleviate some of these social concerns, there has been push for a standard in determining death and creating a normalized system for transplantation in these patients.\n\nFrom a religious standpoint, the encouragement of organ donation or acceptance may vary. The Catholic church with input from Pope John Paul II, identified transplantation from beating heart cadavers or living subjects as acceptable if there are no added risks to the donor. This has been widely debated in Japan where the first heart transplant took place in 1968 and the patient died a few months after the procedure. Since then, more transplantation procedures have taken place but it is still a controversial subject. Transplantation in naturalist religions and cultures such as Native Americans, Buddhists, and Confucianists tend to dissuade the use of living donors and transplantation. The body is idealized as a home for a soul and the organs belonging to a person are considered perverse if utilized by another person. No religion specifically outlaws the use of beating heart cadavers or prefers them to non beating heart cadavers. Western cultures more widely accept the use of transplantation by beating heart cadavers than more conservative cultures. The main concern of many religions and cultures is ensuring the body is not objectified or disrespected in harvesting and transplantation of organs.\n\nAward-winning Canadian writer Colleen Murphy's play \"Beating Heart Cadaver\" had its premiere in the United Kingdom on 3 April 2011 at the Finborough Theatre, London.\n\n"}
{"id": "18479590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18479590", "title": "Cadeguala", "text": "Cadeguala\n\nCadeguala or \"Cadiguala\" was a Mapuche toqui elected in 1585 following the death in battle of the previous toqui Nangoniel. Cadeguala was a noted warrior and the first Mapuche toqui known to have used cavalry successfully in battle. He was killed in a duel with the garrison commander of the Spanish fort at Purén in 1586.\n\nWhile very young he entered the Mapuche army as a private, although he was a nobleman, and gradually won promotion to the grade of general. The toqui, Cayancaru, gave him command of a strong army to attack the city of Angol, which he did without success, but then marched to the city of Arauco, besieged and entered it. Afterward he intended to attack Fort Trinidad, this fortress commanding the passage from Bio-bio River, but a body of Spanish troops under Francisco Hernandez came out and defeated Cadeguala, who lost an arm and was otherwise severely wounded. This forced him to retire to the mountains. He was followed thither by the lieutenant-governor of Chile, who attempted an ambush, only to be discovered, defeated, and killed, with 50 of his men, 14 November 1586. On the same day Cadeguala was elected toqui by acclamation.\n\nFollowing his election, Cadeguala began operations against the Spanish and then attacked Angol breaking into the city with the aid of sympathetic Mapuche that set fires within the town. However the arrival of the governor Alonso de Sotomayor inspired a counterattack by the residents that had fled to the citadel driving the Mapuche back out of the town. Deprived of success there he followed with a siege of the Spanish fort at Purén the following year with 4,000 warriors. After driving off a relief force led by Governor Sotomayor with his 150 lancers he offered the garrison a chance to withdraw or join his army which was refused by all but one. He next challenged the commander of the fort, Alonso García de Ramón, to single combat to decide the fate of the fortress. The two leaders fought on horseback with lances, and Cadeguala fell, killed by his opponent's weapon in the first tilt. Even when dying, the Mapuche warrior would not admit defeat, and tried in vain to mount his horse again. His army raised the siege but after electing Guanoalca as toqui returned to successfully drive the poorly supplied Spanish from Purén.\n\n"}
{"id": "9522522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9522522", "title": "Cecilia Mettler", "text": "Cecilia Mettler\n\nCecilia Charlotte Asper Mettler was a medical historian. She was one of the first full-time, and the first female, professors of the history of medicine in the United States.\n\nMettler was born on October 26, 1909 in Weehawken, New Jersey. Her father, William Charles Asper, was a lawyer. She learned Latin at the Convent of St. Elizabeth, where she received her A.B. in 1931. She studied further at Cornell University where she received her Ph.D. in 1938. During this time she familiarized herself with medicine at the Washington University School of Nursing and at the University of Georgia School of Medicine, where her husband, Fred Mettler, worked. In 1939, she was named assistant professor of medical history at the University of Georgia School of Medicine. In 1941, they moved to New York City, where she held a position as an associate in neurology, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.\n\nShe noted that medical history is typically taught either by delivering chronological lectures or by focusing on a specific topic, and proposed to correlate medical history teaching with the teaching of the medical curriculum. Her major work, \"The History of Medicine\", reflected that approach. It was completed after nine years of work just a few days before her death, and published posthumously.\n\nMettler died on December 1, 1943, three days after the birth of her daughter.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39778146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39778146", "title": "Chupacabra vs. The Alamo", "text": "Chupacabra vs. The Alamo\n\nChupacabra vs. The Alamo is a 2013 made-for-TV movie about a pack of Chupacabra that use a tunnel to escape from Mexico to San Antonio, Texas. In their travels, however, they engage in many violent attacks. They begin to kill local residents and various drug cartel members.\n\nThe film stars Erik Estrada and Julia Benson as the protagonists. It was directed by Terry Ingram with the story by Peter Sullivan and Jeffrey Schenck. The movie was released in the U.S. and Canada initially and then later in Brazil and Germany under the titles \"Chupacabra\" and \"Chupacabra - Angriff der Killerbestien\".\n\nA group of corpses are found in a tunnel, where they were attacked and killed by Chupacabras. The following day, Carlos Seguin (Erik Estrada) and Tracy Taylor (Julia Benson) begin to investigate the killings and discover a dying man who has also been attacked by the Chupacabras. The dying man identifies his killers as \"Diablo\" (Spanish for the Devil).\n\nTracy soon discovers a pile of bones deeper within the tunnel. A Chupacabra attacks Tracy, but she is able to kill it and the dead body is then taken back to a lab to study.\n\nLater in the film, Agent Perez (Aleks Paunovic), one of Seguin's partners, is searching the field with his dog. Both are eventually killed by a pack of Chupacabras. Before the man is killed, he takes a picture of one of the Chupacabras, which Carlos later finds while investigating the murders.\n\nThe Chupacabras attack a group of teenagers during a Cinco de Mayo party, forcing Sienna (Nicole Muñoz), Carlos' daughter and one of her friends to hide inside the school. They are able to call Carlos, who is able to shoot the Chupacabras. However, later while they are recovering in their home, another pack of Chupacabras attacks, this time injuring Sienna and killing her friend, Brooke.\n\nAfter being relieved by his boss, Carlos enlists the aid of his son's gang. One of his agent friends, Wilcox (Zak Santiago) also comes up to help with a tactical team. Using the signal from a transponder that Taylor tagged unto one of the Chupacabras, the group trace the pack of monsters into a nearby warehouse. However, they end up being ambushed by the Chupacabras with most of the tactical team being killed.\n\nIn the climax, Carlos and the group of survivors lead the Chupacabras to the Alamo, where a battle takes place. In the end, they kill all the Chupacabras by blowing up the Alamo.\n\nThe movie was shot on location in San Antonio, Texas. It was distributed by Echo Bridge Home Entertainment in the USA and by Signature Entertainment in the UK on DVD. Digital Post Services was used for ADR Recording in post production.\n\nThe tagline for the film was \"Chupacabras attack with a vengeance and this time they're taking on the Alamo\".\n\nThe movie has no rating on the Rotten Tomatoes site and there are no readily available rating numbers (Nielsen or otherwise) for its airing.\n"}
{"id": "11037446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11037446", "title": "Colin Campbell Ross", "text": "Colin Campbell Ross\n\nColin Campbell Eadie Ross (11 October 1892 – 24 April 1922) was an Australian wine-bar owner convicted of the murder of a child, which became known as the Gun Alley Murder, and executed despite evidence that he was innocent. Following his execution, efforts were made to clear his name, but it was not until the 1990s that the key evidence was re-examined using modern forensic techniques, strongly indicating that Ross was innocent. As a result, an appeal for mercy was made to Victoria's Chief Justice in 2006, and on 27 May 2008 the Governor of Victoria pardoned Ross, in what is believed to be an Australian legal first.\n\nColin Ross was born in North Fitzroy, Melbourne, the third of five children born to Thomas and Elizabeth Ross. Thomas Ross died in 1900 leaving his wife to care for the five young children, including one who was newborn. Consequently, none of the children were well educated, each one leaving school as early as possible to find work to help support the family. Colin Ross began working at a local quarry at the age of 11, and over the following years he worked as a labourer and later as a wardsman at the Broadmeadows army hospital. In 1920, Elizabeth Ross became the manager of the Donnybrook Hotel, 30 kilometres north of Melbourne, with Colin as partner and another of her sons, Ronald, as licensee.\n\nDuring this time, Colin Ross began a relationship with Lily Mae Brown, who worked in a Melbourne hotel. On 5 March 1920, Ross asked Brown to marry him, and when she refused, he produced a revolver. He followed her onto a tram, where he continued to threaten her, until she agreed to meet him later in the day. Instead, she contacted the police and a plain-clothes detective was present when she kept her appointment with Ross later in the evening. Ross was charged with using threatening words and for carrying firearms without permission. On the charge of using threatening words he was sentenced to 14 days imprisonment, along with a 12-month good behaviour bond, and was fined for carrying the firearm.\n\nIn April, 1921 the Ross family returned to Melbourne, where Colin Ross, with his brothers Stanley and Ronald, bought a wine shop in the Eastern Arcade, in the business centre of Melbourne. After the purchase of the shop, renamed \"The Australian Wine Saloon\", the Ross brothers continued the employment of its barmaid, Ivy Matthews. She later commented that the saloon had previously attracted a quiet and respectable clientele, but that the Ross brothers were willing to serve anyone, with the result that it was soon frequented by alcoholics and criminals. Other tenants in the building resented the intrusion of the wine bar's customers, who reportedly drank to excess, vomited and urinated in the arcade, and made lewd comments to passing women.\n\nOn 13 October 1921, one of the saloon's customers was robbed in the outdoor lavatory of the premises, and was shot during a struggle with his assailant. His wound was not serious, but he was unable to give an account of events to police due to the large amount of alcohol he had consumed. An investigation revealed that his assailant was a young English traveller, Frank Walsh, who had spent most of his money, and who had been approached by Colin Ross to rob the customer on the understanding that the proceeds would be shared between them. Ross and Walsh were arrested and charged with armed robbery. Ross's comments to police incriminated Ivy Matthews, who had until that point refused to discuss the matter. Following a visit by Elizabeth Ross, Matthews began to speak on Ross's behalf, and at the same time began referring to herself as the saloon's manager, and drawing money from the saloon's account. Ross made no further attempt to draw Matthews to the attention of police. He was acquitted of the armed robbery charge, but Walsh was sentenced to six months hard labour. Following Colin Ross's acquittal, Stanley Ross confronted Ivy Matthews and dismissed her from her position.\n\nNell Alma Tirtschke, known as Alma, was born in 14 March 1909 at a remote mining settlement in Western Australia, the first child of Charles Tirtschke and Nell Alger. In 1911, Charles Tirtschke accepted a position with a mining company in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), and the family moved there, where Nell gave birth to a second daughter, Viola, in 1912. The family was returning to Australia in December 1914, when Nell died of complications relating to a third pregnancy and was buried at sea. After arriving in Melbourne, Charles Tirtschke was unable to care for the children, and returned to Western Australia where he worked on the goldfields. Alma and Viola were cared for by their grandparents, Henry and Elizabeth Tirschke, who were assisted by their five adult daughters.\n\nBy 1921, Henry Tirschke had died, and the grandmother assumed all parental duties. She was remembered by Viola as a strict disciplinarian who kept a close watch on both daughters. Alma was studious and well behaved, and excelled in her studies at the Hawthorn West Central School. However her grandmother greatly restricted her from social activities with other students, and she became very shy. An uncle, John Murdoch, said of Alma Tirschke, \"Though of a bright disposition, she was somewhat reserved, and did not make friends readily like some girls. She lacked the vivacious manner that encourages chance acquaintance\". Her sister Viola described her as being \"soft in speech and soft in manner\".\n\nOn the afternoon of 30 December 1921, Alma's grandmother sent the twelve-year-old on an errand. She was to collect a package of meat from a butcher's shop in Swanston Street, Melbourne, and take it a short distance to Collins Street to deliver it to her aunt. The errand should have taken no more than 15 minutes and when Alma, who was known to be reliable and obedient, failed to return home, her grandmother became alarmed. She was reported as missing, and the police, along with the Tirtschke family, searched for Alma through the night. Early the next morning, her naked body was found in Gun Alley, a laneway off Little Collins Street, near the address Alma had been sent to. She had been raped and strangled.\n\nThe case became a major sensation, with the Melbourne press convincing its readers that a maniac was on the loose and likely to strike again. A reward of 1250 pounds ($91,500 in 2013 dollars) was offered for the capture of the killer; one of the highest rewards offered in Australia at that time. As time passed with no real progress, the police were criticised, and were subjected to public pressure to make an arrest.\n\nInvestigations revealed that Alma had last been seen alive between 2:30pm and 3:00pm on the afternoon of her disappearance, at the corner of Alfred Place and Little Collins Streets, near the lane in which her body was subsequently discovered and that she had been murdered at around 6:00pm. Among the numerous men interviewed was Colin Ross, the saloon manager, who described seeing a girl matching Alma's description, outside his saloon. His description of events closely matched that of several witnesses who had also seen her. Several witnesses recounted how Alma looked worried with one stating that a man (not Colin Ross) was following her.\n\nRoss was obviously well known to the local police, having recently been acquitted on the charge relating to his alleged involvement in the shooting and robbing of one of his customers. Despite Ross's willingness to co-operate, police began to interview him in greater detail. He was able to nominate several witnesses who had seen him tending his saloon on the afternoon of Alma's death and who would confirm that he had not left the premises, but the police remained convinced that he had killed Alma, and on 12 January 1922 they arrested him for murder.\n\nThe public fascination with the case intensified as newspapers published news of Ross' arrest, but Ross told his lawyers, family and friends that he had nothing to fear. As an innocent man, he said, it was only a matter of time before he would be released.\n\nThe trial began on 20 February 1922 and witnesses were produced to attest to Ross's guilt. John Harding, who had a previous conviction for perjury and was being detained in prison at the time, \"at the Governor's pleasure\", testified that Ross had confided in him in prison, and had admitted his guilt. Ivy Matthews, Olive Maddox, a prostitute, and Julia Gibson, who worked as a fortune-teller under the name \"Madame Gurkha\", also testified in court that Ross had confessed the crime to them. The prosecution case was that 12-year-old Alma had chosen to have a drink in Ross' wine bar instead of collecting the package for her aunty and had remained there consensually from 3:00pm until 6:00pm drinking wine, at which time Ross had raped and murdered her.\n\nThe prosecution also offered forensic evidence in the form of several strands of hair they had obtained from Alma Tirtschke shortly before her funeral. A detective testified that on the day of Ross's arrest he had noticed several strands of \"golden hair\" on a blanket in Ross's house, which were later removed and examined by the state government analyst, Charles Price, who was a trained chemist, but had little previous experience in the new field of forensic science. Price testified that he compared the hairs under a microscope, and concluded that the hair found in Ross's house was a light auburn colour, while Alma's hair was a dark red. He measured the diameter of the hairs and concluded that they were of a different thickness. At one point in his testimony he commented that the hairs on Ross' blanket had most likely fallen from the head of a regular visitor, such as Ross's girlfriend, but after a long testimony, he stated that he believed the hairs were \"derived from the scalp of one and same person,\" Alma Tirtschke. His contradictory evidence was accepted by the judge without comment.\n\nRoss's barrister, Thomas Brennan, protested, requesting that a further examination be carried out by a more qualified person, but the judge refused. The jury found Ross guilty of murder and he was sentenced to death by hanging. His legal representatives were convinced of his innocence but found that public opinion remained strongly against Ross, and news of his death sentence was met with public celebration. Ross's legal representatives sought to obtain the right to appeal but this was refused by the judge who stated that Ross's guilt had been proven beyond doubt. Brennan sought leave to appeal to the Privy Council in England, but that application was also refused.\n\nBrennan remained supportive of Ross and certain of his innocence, but had exhausted all avenues in his attempt to save Ross from execution. On the eve of his execution, Ross received a letter from a man who failed to give his name but admitted that he had killed Alma, and, although consumed by guilt, was not willing to come forward as it would cause grief to his family. Brennan later wrote that he believed the letter could have been authentic. This letter may have been written by the real killer.\n\nBefore his execution in his farewell letter to his family, Ross wrote: \" \"The day is coming when my innocence will be proved.\" \"\n\nRoss composed himself with dignity for his quiet but resolute statement from the scaffold:\n\nRoss was executed on 24 April 1922 at Melbourne Gaol in a particularly gruesome manner. Authorities had decided to experiment with a four-stranded rope rather than the usual three-stranded European hemp. The four-stranded rope did not run freely through the noose and Ross did not die immediately because his spinal cord was fractured, not severed. Although his windpipe was torn and obstructed by his destroyed larynx, the condemned man continued with rasping breaths and convulsed on the rope. Three times Ross bent his knees and flexed his arms before succumbing, slowly strangled to death by asphyxiation. A prison report later ruled that such a rope must never be used again.\n\nThomas Brennan became consumed with his failure to save the life of Colin Ross, eventually writing a book, \"The Gun Alley Tragedy\", in which he attempted to establish that Ross had been hanged for a crime he did not commit. Although Brennan attracted supporters, it was not enough to persuade the Victorian government to have the case re-examined, and over the following years, interest began to wane among all but the most ardent of Ross's supporters.\n\nIn 1993, Kevin Morgan, a former school teacher, became interested in Ross' case, and began to research the events surrounding the murder of Alma Tirtschke and Ross's execution. He read handwritten notes in the Bible Colin Ross had kept with him in prison, and which had been preserved by his family following his death. Morgan was moved by the simple notations in which Ross wrote of false witnesses, knowing that Ross had written these notes without expecting anyone else to read them.\n\nMorgan examined interview records and court transcripts, and discovered information that had been kept from the court at the time, including the testimony of six reliable witnesses who placed Ross inside his saloon for the entire afternoon of Alma Tirtschke's murder. Furthermore, a cab driver, Joseph Graham, had heard screams coming from a building in Collins Street at 3.00 p.m., during the time that Ross was verified as having been in the saloon. Graham's interview had been disregarded by police and he had not been called to give evidence. Following Ross's arrest, Graham attempted to have his story told through a solicitor, but was not permitted to present his version of events in court. Morgan also noted that the witnesses against Ross were of dubious character and could have been motivated to present false testimony; John Harding's sentence was reduced after he stated that Ross had confessed to him in prison while Olive Maddox, the prostitute, Ivy Matthews, the disgruntled former employee and Julia Gibson, the fortune-teller, had shared the reward money. A closer examination of the long testimony of Charles Price regarding the hair samples seemed to support Ross's innocence.\n\nTwo years after he began researching the case, Kevin Morgan found a file in the Office of Public Prosecutions containing the original hair samples, which had been thought lost. He began a long administrative struggle for the right to submit the hair samples for DNA testing, finally achieving his aim in 1998. Two independent scientific authorities - the Victorian Institute of Forensic Medicine and the forensics division of the Australian Federal Police - found that the two lots of hair did not come from the same person, thereby disproving with certainty the most damning piece of evidence presented at Colin Ross's trial.\n\nOn 4 October 2005, the families of both Colin Ross and Alma Tirtschke submitted a petition of mercy. On 23 October 2006 the Victorian Attorney General Rob Hulls forwarded the 31-page petition to the Chief Justice, Marilyn Warren, requesting her to consider the plea for Ross.\nThe subsequent pardon, granted on 27 May 2008, is the first example of a posthumous pardon in Victoria's legal history and is to date the only instance of a pardon for a judicially executed person in Australia.\n\nThe family of Alma Tirtschke are relieved that Ross has finally been exonerated. In a Fairfax Radio interview discussing the pardon, the murdered girl's second cousin recounted how her grandmother was preoccupied with the murder \"She didn't say who was the right man but she said the wrong man was hung\". In a later interview on the Nine Network's \"A Current Affair\" program, the family stated they believe the true murderer was a family member. In 1996, Kevin Morgan interviewed Viola, Alma's sister, and in his book revealed the probable killer to be a man mistrusted by the two girls, a returned soldier who had paedophilic tendencies, George Murphy, who was married to their cousin.\n\nThe Ross trial was the first in Australasia to obtain a conviction using a scientific comparison of hairs. The case also led to the practice of anonymity for jurors after Keith Murdoch's newspaper, \"The Herald\" sensationalized the case and prejudiced the trial by publishing Ross's photograph and printing the names and addresses of the jury. The Herald was shamed by other newspapers and its headquarters in Flinders Street was nicknamed \"the Colin Ross Memorial\" by opposition journalists.\n\nIn October 2010, Ross's remains were identified and handed to his family for a proper burial.\n\nThe Gun Alley Murder is depicted in 1982's \"Squizzy Taylor\", a film about the eponymous Melbourne gangster. The film portrays Taylor (David Atkins) assisting the authorities with the case by intimidating supposed witnesses into revealing what they know about Ross.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5421193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5421193", "title": "Conflict resolution strategy", "text": "Conflict resolution strategy\n\nConflict resolution strategies are used in production systems in artificial intelligence, such as in rule-based expert systems, to help in choosing which production rule to fire. The need for such a strategy arises when the conditions of two or more rules are satisfied by the currently known facts.\n\nConflict resolution strategies fall into several main categories. They each have advantages which form their rationales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33770709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33770709", "title": "Deaths in motorsport", "text": "Deaths in motorsport\n\nThis is a page with information on deaths that have occurred during motorsport events. Auto racing is a dangerous sport by its nature and has seen a large number of deaths. The number of deaths, however, has fallen in recent years as safety standards and car construction has improved. A prime example of this is in Formula 1, where deaths were a regular occurrence earlier in the history of the series but have now improved to the point where there has been only one death since 1994. Deaths in motorsport overall are still a tragic regular occurrence however, with motorcycle racing suffering more instances than car racing. This is largely due to the nature of motorcycle riding and lack of protection it affords a rider in the event of a crash. Deaths in motorsport can be categorised as follows.\n\nThis section covers all driver deaths in car or truck racing events. These have either taken place at racing cirucits or oval racing venues. Deaths in all series and in all types of vehicles are included, from club or national level series to high-profile events like Formula 1 and Champ Car. \n\nThis covers rider deaths in all forms of motorcycle racing. This includes all circuit and road racing events of any level. High-profile events like Moto GP and the Isle of Man TT are included alongside other international, national or club level events. \n\nRallying is an offroad motorsport, generally featuring a number of timed stages on varying surfaces to crown an overall winner. Deaths in this form of motorsport often occur when the car leaves the road and crashes into something on the roadside or suffers a significant fall. Deaths at all levels are included, from national events to major events like the World Rally Championship and the Dakar Rally\n"}
{"id": "8568939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8568939", "title": "Debbie Dobbins", "text": "Debbie Dobbins\n\nDebbie Dobbins (October 28, 1963 – December 30, 1993) was a popular fitness competitor and fitness model during the early 1990s. Her life was cut short due to smoke inhalation in a house fire.\n\nDobbins was born in Olongapo, Philippines, of half Irish and half Filipino descent. When she was three her family moved to Portland, Oregon, where she grew up in the northwest side. She competed in a variety of sports in high school and college, including track and field and basketball. She graduated from college with a degree in Marketing and Advertising. After college, she began taking aerobic classes, and also took up running and weight training. Later she taught aerobics and cross training for seven years, and gradually made weight training a bigger part of her fitness regimen.\n\nDobbins moved to Los Angeles, California at age twenty-four to pursue a career in the fitness industry. There she became an aerobics instructor and played volleyball for Orange Coast College in Costa Mesa. While establishing herself as a fitness model she worked full-time for a leasing company, and did promotional work for Randy Pfund, coach of the Los Angeles Lakers. Debbie also worked as a cheerleader for the Portland Breakers of the USFL and Los Angeles Raiders of the NFL.\n\nHer magazine cover appearances included \"Musclemag International\" and \"Iron Man\". She was also featured in \"Iron Man\"'s special swimsuit issue and modeled for \"Iron Man\" gym wear. In 1993, Debbie placed third in the Ms. Fitness USA competition and tied for second at the Ms. Galaxy. Her death in late 1993 occurred as a result of smoke inhalation in a house fire.\n\nIn a 1994 episode of \"Hard Copy\", it was speculated that there was foulplay involved with the fire causing her death.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6447275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6447275", "title": "Direct Action to Stop the War", "text": "Direct Action to Stop the War\n\nDirect Action to Stop the War (DASW) was an organization that coordinated nonviolent direct action-based opposition activities to the 2003 invasion of Iraq in the San Francisco Bay Area. The organization was founded in October 2002 following an overnight sit-in and morning blockade at the San Francisco Federal Building following the U.S. Congress's authorization of the use of force against Iraq. Operating primarily through the use of affinity groups and a spokescouncil, it coordinated a mass effort by 5,000 to 20,000 people to disrupt business in the financial district of downtown San Francisco following the beginning of the war in March 2003. The organization persisted through 2004, coordinating a variety of local protests against corporations with ties to the war effort and sending hundreds of activists to protests in Cancun, Miami and New York City.\n\nThe March 2003 San Francisco actions were the culmination of twenty years of urban direct action organizing. Beginning with the War Chest Tours of the early 1980s and continuing through the 1991 Gulf War and other occasions, direct activists developed the blockading and disruptive tactics that were used by thousands of protesters in opposition to the 2003 war on Iraq. The 1980s protests are documented with photos and narratives at DirectAction.org.\n\nOn Jan. 6, 2008, Direct Action to Stop the War was reconvened, with the goal of organizing several direct actions in the San Francisco Bay Area to coincide with the fifth anniversary of the Iraq War.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14946795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946795", "title": "Extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines", "text": "Extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines\n\nExtrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines are illegal executionsunlawful or felonious killingsand forced disappearances in the Philippines. These are forms of extrajudicial punishment, and include extrajudicial executions, summary executions, arbitrary arrest and detentions, and failed prosecutions due to political activities of leading political, trade union members, dissident and/or social figures, left-wing political parties, non-governmental organizations, political journalists, outspoken clergy, anti-mining activists, agricultural reform activists, members of organizations that are allied or legal fronts of the communist movement like \"Bayan group\" or suspected supporters of the NPA and its political wing, the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP).\n\nExtrajudicial killings are most commonly referred to as \"salvaging\" in Philippine English. The word is believed to be a direct Anglicization of Tagalog \"salbahe\" (\"cruel\", \"barbaric\"), from Spanish \"salvaje\" (\"wild\", \"savage\").\n\nExtrajudicial killings (EJKs) is also synonymous with the term \"extralegal killings\" (ELKs). Extrajudicial/ extralegal killings (EJKs/ ELKs) and enforced disappearances (EDs) are unique in the Philippines in as much as it is publicly and commonly known to be committed also by non-state armed groups (NAGs) such as the New Peoples Army (NPA) and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF). Although cases have been well documented with conservative estimates of EJKs/ ELKs and EDs committed by the NPAs numbering to about 900-1,000 victims based on the discovery of numerous mass grave sites all over country, legal mechanisms for accountability of non-state actors have been weak if not wholly non-existent.\n\nPhilippine extrajudicial killings are politically motivated murders committed by government officers, punished by local and international law or convention. They include assassinations; deaths due to strafing or indiscriminate firing; massacre; summary execution is done if the victim becomes passive before the moment of death (i.e., abduction leading to death); assassination means forthwith or instant killing while is akin to genocide or mass extermination; thus, killings occurred in many regions or places throughout the Philippines in different times - 136 killings in Southern Tagalog region were recorded by human rights group Karapatan from 2001 to May 19, 2006.\n\nA forced disappearance (desaparecidos), on the other hand, as form of extrajudicial punishment is perpetrated by government officers, when any of its public officers abducts an individual, to vanish from public view, resulting to murder or plain sequestration. The victim is first kidnapped, then illegally detained in concentration camps, often tortured, and finally executed and the corpse hidden. In Spanish and Portuguese, \"disappeared people\" are called \"desaparecidos\", a term which specifically refers to the mostly South American victims of state terrorism during the 1970s and the 1980s, in particular concerning Operation Condor. In the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, \"Enforced disappearance\" is defined in Article 2 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture as \"the arrest, detention, abduction or any other form of deprivation of liberty by agents of the State or by persons or groups of persons acting with the authorization, support or acquiescence of the State, followed by a refusal to acknowledge the deprivation of liberty or by concealment of the fate or whereabouts of the disappeared person, which place such a person outside the protection of the law.\"\n\nEven if Philippine Republic Act No. 7438 provides for the rights of persons arrested, detained, it does not punish acts of enforced disappearances. Thus, on August 27, Bayan Muna (People First), Gabriela Women's Party (GWP), and Anakpawis (Toiling Masses) filed House Bill 2263\"An act defining and penalizing the crime of enforced or involuntary disappearance.\" Sen. Jinggoy Estrada also filed last June 30, 2007, Senate Bill No. 7\"An Act Penalizing the Commission of Acts of Torture and Involuntary Disappearance of Persons Arrested, Detained or Under Custodial Investigation, and Granting Jurisdiction to the Commission on Human Rights to Conduct Preliminary Investigation for Violation of the Custodial Rights of the Accused, Amending for this Purpose Sections 2, 3 and 4 of RA 7438, and for Other Purposes.\"\n\nIn 1995, 10,000 Filipinos won a U.S. class-suit against the Ferdinand Marcos estate. The charges were filed by victims or their surviving relatives for torture, execution and disappearances. Human rights groups placed the number of victims of extrajudicial killings under martial law at 1500 and over 800 abductions; Karapatan (a local human rights group's) records show 759 involuntarily disappeared (their bodies never found). Military historian Alfred McCoy in his book \"Closer than Brothers: Manhood at the Philippine Military Academy\" and in his speech \"Dark Legacy\" cites 3,257 extrajudicial killings, 35,000 torture victims, and 70,000 incarcerated during the Marcos years. The newspaper \"Bulatlat\" places the number of victims of arbitrary arrest and detention at 120,000.\n\nThe New People's Army (NPA) groups known as \"Sparrow Units\" were active in the mid-1980s, killing government officials, police personnel, military members, and anyone else they targeted for elimination. They were also part of an NPA operation called \"Agaw Armas\" (Filipino for \"Stealing Weapons\"), where they raided government armories as well as stealing weapons from slain military and police personnel. A low level civil war with south Muslims, Al-Qaeda sympathizers and communist insurgents has led to a general break down of law and order. The Philippines government has promised to curb the killings, but is itself implicated in many of the killings.\n\nSince 1975, the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) was deeply concerned in politics. Because of the armed conflict, the military continued its campaign versus the New People's Army of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP). Since 1969 it aimed to establish a Marxist regime with armed rebellion against the government. On top of all these chaos, left-wing non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were/are critical of the Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo administration. The members who associated with the CPP and NPA had been targeted as victims in the spate of political killings. Human Rights Watch investigated extrajudicial murders in the Philippines in September 2007.\n\nThree major investigation groups were commissioned and their final reports had been submitted and published: the Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo government-appointed bodies: a) Task Force Usig created by her on August; as a special police body, it was assigned to solve 10 cases of killings; it claimed having solved 21 cases, by initiating court cases, but only 12 suspects were arrested; b) the Melo Commission (chaired by Supreme Court Associate Justice Jose Melo) with members National Bureau of Investigation Director Nestor Mantaring, Chief State Prosecutor Jovencito Zuño, Bishop Juan de dios Pueblos, and Nelia Torres Gonzales; its final report states: \"There is no official or sanctioned policy on the part of the military or its civilian superiors to resort to what other countries euphemistically call \"alternative procedures\"meaning illegal executions. However, there is certainly evidence pointing the finger of suspicion at some elements and personalities in the armed forces, in particular General Jovito Palparan, as responsible for an undetermined number of killings, by allowing, tolerating, and even encouraging the killings.\" (Melo Commission report, p. 53), and c) Philip Alston, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial Executions (February 12 to 21, 2007)\n\n\nBecause of the inefficacy and insufficiency of the Philippines Writ of Habeas Corpus, on September 25, 2007, Chief Justice Reynato Puno signed and released the Writ of Amparo: \"This rule will provide the victims of extralegal killings and enforced disappearances the protection they need and the promise of vindication for their rights. This rule empowers our courts to issue reliefs that may be granted through judicial orders of protection, production, inspection and other relief to safeguard one's life and liberty The writ of amparo shall hold public authorities, those who took their oath to defend the constitution and enforce our laws, to a high standard of official conduct and hold them accountable to our people. The sovereign Filipino people should be assured that if their right to life and liberty is threatened or violated, they will find vindication in our courts of justice'.\" Puno explained the interim reliefs under amparo: temporary protection order (TPO), inspection order (IO), production order (PO), and witness protection order (WPO, RA 6981). As supplement to Amparo, on August 30, 2007, Puno (at Silliman University in Dumaguete City, Negros Oriental) promised to release also the \"writ of habeas data\" (“you should have the idea” or “you should have the data”) another new legal remedy to solve the extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. Puno explained that the \"writ of amparo\" denies to authorities defense of simple denial, and \"habeas data\" can find out what information is held by the officer, rectify or even the destroy erroneous data gathered. Brazil used the writ, followed by Colombia, Paraguay, Peru, Argentina and Ecuador.\n\n\nIn 2006, the Dutch Lawyers for Lawyers Foundation and Lawyers without Borders with the support of the Netherlands Bar Association, the Amsterdam Bar Association and the International Association of Democratic Lawyers created a fact-finding mission in different parts of the Philippines. The international groups conducted interviews of various legal sectors from June 15 to June 20, 2006.\n\nFrom November 4–12, 2008, the Dutch Lawyers for Lawyers Foundation will conduct a follow-up verification and fact finding mission (IVFFM) in Manila and Mindanao, with the National Host Committee, National Union of Peoples' Lawyers (NUPL) and the Counsels for the Defense of Liberties (CODAL). This team is composed of 8 judges and lawyers from Belgium and Netherlands, who had dialogue with Reynato Puno on the probe of killings.\nOn September 28, 2007, the Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) criticized the Writ of Amparo and Habeas Data (Philippines) for being insufficient: \"Though it responds to practical areas it is still necessary that further action must be taken in addition to this. The legislative bodies, House of Representatives and Senate, should also initiate its own actions promptly and without delay. They must enact laws which ensure protection of rights—laws against torture and enforced disappearance and laws to afford adequate legal remedies to victims.\" AHRC objected since the writ failed to protect non-witnesses, even if they too face threats or risk to their lives.\n\n\n\n\n\nOn March 11, 2008, the US Department of State reported that \"arbitrary, unlawful arrests and extrajudicial and political killings continued to be a major problem in the Philippines in 2007. Washington stated that \"many of these killings went unsolved and unpunished despite intensified efforts of the government to investigate and prosecute these cases.\"\n\nOn January 25, 2005, and on December 10, 2006, Philippines Social Weather Stations released the results of its two surveys on corruption in the judiciary; it published that: a) like 1995, 1/4 of lawyers said many/very many judges are corrupt. But (49%) stated that a judges received bribes, just 8% of lawyers admitted they reported the bribery, because they could not prove it. [Tables 8-9]; judges, however, said, just 7% call many/very many judges as corrupt[Tables 10-11];b) \"Judges see some corruption; proportions who said - many/very many corrupt judges or justices: 17% in reference to RTC judges, 14% to MTC judges, 12% to Court of Appeals justices, 4% i to Shari'a Court judges, 4% to Sandiganbayan justices and 2% in reference to Supreme Court justices [Table 15].\n\nIn the Maguindanao massacre in the Philippines on November 23, 2009, 57 people were killed while en route to file an electoral certificate of candidacy for Esmael Mangudadatu, vice mayor of Buluan town, in upcoming gubernatorial elections for Maguindanao province. The dead included Mangudadatu's wife, his two sisters, journalists, lawyers, aides, and motorists who were witnesses. At least 198 suspects were charged with murder, including incumbent governor Andal Ampatuan Sr., and his son, Andal Ampatuan Jr. who was to be a candidate to succeed him. On November 16, 2010, the international non-governmental organization Human Rights Watch issued a 96 page report titled \"They Own the People,\" charting the Ampatuans’ rise to power, including their use of violence to expand their control and eliminate threats to the family's rule.\n\nOn July 2, 2016, the Communist Party of the Philippines stated that it \"reiterates its standing order for the NPA to carry out operations to disarm and arrest the chieftains of the biggest drug syndicates, as well as other criminal syndicates involved in human rights violations and destruction of the environment\" after its political wing Bagong Alyansang Makabayan accepted Cabinet posts in the new government. On July 3, the Philippine National Police said they had killed 30 alleged drug dealers since Duterte was sworn in as president on June 30. They later stated they had killed 103 suspects between May 10 and July 7.\n\nOn August 26, 2016, the official death total reached 2,000.\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8319112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8319112", "title": "Francis Patrick Keough", "text": "Francis Patrick Keough\n\nFrancis Patrick Keough (December 30, 1890 – December 8, 1961) was an American clergyman of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Bishop of Providence (1934-1947) and Archbishop of Baltimore (1947-1961).\n\nFrancis Keough was born in New Britain, Connecticut, the second and youngest son of Patrick and Margaret (née Ryan) Keough. His parents were Irish immigrants, and his father died when Francis was only five years old. He received his early education at the parochial school of St. Mary's Church in his native city, and began his studies for the priesthood at St. Thomas Seminary in Bloomfield. In 1911, he was sent to the Grand Seminary of Saint-Sulpice in Issy-les-Moulineaux, France. He returned home following the outbreak of World War I, and completed his theological studies at St. Bernard's Seminary in Rochester, New York.\n\nOn June 10, 1916, Keough was ordained a priest for the Diocese of Hartford by Bishop John Joseph Nilan. His first assignment was as a curate at St. Rose Church in Meriden, where he remained until becoming private secretary to Bishop Nilan in 1919. He also served as diocesan director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith, assistant chancellor, and chaplain of two institutions.\n\nOn February 10, 1934, Keough was appointed the fourth Bishop of Providence, Rhode Island, by Pope Pius XI. He received his episcopal consecration on the following May 22 from Archbishop Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, with Archbishop John Murray and Bishop James Edwin Cassidy serving as co-consecrators. During his tenure in Providence, the Catholic population of the diocese increased from 325,000 to 425,000, and the number of clergy grew by fifty percent. He also founded a minor seminary, eased tensions between the French-speaking and English-speaking members of his congregation, and reduced the heavy financial debts burdening the diocese.\n\nOn November 29, 1947, Keough was named by Pope Pius XII to succeed Michael Joseph Curley as the eleventh Archbishop of Baltimore, Maryland. He was formally installed in the Basilica of the Assumption on February 24, 1948. During the fourteen years of his administration, the Catholic population of the archdiocese, the first Catholic see in the United States, grew from 265,000 to 400,000. The new Cathedral of Mary Our Queen and many new schools, homes, orphanages and other institutions were built. He was a trustee of the Catholic University of America and a member of the American Board of Catholic Missions, and served three terms as chairman of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. Keough was known as the \"Archbishop of the poor\" due to his dedication to orphans and the aged. He was named an Assistant at the Pontifical Throne in 1959.\n\nKeough died from cerebral thrombosis, aged 70.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3586072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3586072", "title": "Frank B. Brandegee", "text": "Frank B. Brandegee\n\nFrank Bosworth Brandegee (July 8, 1864October 14, 1924) was a United States Representative and Senator from Connecticut.\n\nFrank Brandegee was born in New London, Connecticut July 8, 1864. He was the son of Augustus Brandegee, who also served in the United States House.\n\nHe graduated from New London's Bulkeley High School in 1881. He completed his degree at Yale College in 1885, where he was a member of Skull and Bones. He studied law, and was admitted to the bar in 1888 and practiced in New London.\n\nA Republican, in 1888 Brandegee served in the Connecticut House of Representatives, and was New London's Corporation Counsel from 1889 to 1893 and 1894 to 1897.\n\nHe returned to the Connecticut House in 1899, and served as Speaker. He served again as New London's Corporation Counsel from 1901 to 1902, when he resigned because he had been elected to Congress.\n\nBrandegee was elected as a Republican to the Fifty-seventh Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Charles A. Russell. He was reelected to the Fifty-eighth and Fifty-ninth Congresses and served from November 4, 1902, until May 10, 1905, when he resigned.\n\nBrandegee was a delegate to several state and national Republican conventions, and was chairman of the Connecticut Republican Party's 1904 state convention.\n\nBrandegee resigned from the House to accept election to the U.S. Senate, filling the vacancy caused by the death of Orville H. Platt.\n\nHe was reelected in 1908, 1914, and 1920, and served from May 10, 1905 until his death.\n\nA staunch \"Old Guard\" conservative, Brandegee opposed women's suffrage, America's participation in the League of Nations, and most other measures of the time that were considered liberal or progressive. In 1920 Brandegee was also one of the chief promoters of Warren G. Harding for President.\n\nIn the Senate he was Chairman of the following committees: Interoceanic Canals (Sixty-second Congress); Panama (Sixty-second Congress); Pacific Railroads (Sixty-third through Sixty-fifth Congresses); Library (Sixty-sixth and Sixty-seventh Congresses); and Judiciary (Sixty-eighth Congress).\n\nBrandegee was President pro tempore during several sessions of the Senate in the Sixty-second Congress (1911 to 1913).\n\nBrandegee never married and had no children.\n\nHe committed suicide in Washington, D.C. on October 14, 1924, inhaling fumes from a gas light in a seldom used bathroom on the third floor of his home. According to published accounts, he was in ill health and had lost most of his fortune through bad investments. Press reports at the time indicated that he left his chauffeur a suicide note and $100, with another $100 for two other household servants.\n\nHe was interred at Cedar Grove Cemetery in New London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35823031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35823031", "title": "Function-spacer-lipid Kode construct", "text": "Function-spacer-lipid Kode construct\n\nFunction-Spacer-Lipid (FSL) Kode constructs (Kode Technology) are amphiphatic, water dispersible biosurface engineering constructs that can be used to engineer the surface of cells, viruses and organisms, or to modify solutions and non-biological surfaces with bioactives. FSL Kode constructs spontaneously and stably incorporate into cell membranes. FSL Kode constructs with all these aforementioned features are also known as Kode Constructs. The process of modifying surfaces with FSL Kode constructs is known as \"koding\" and the resultant \"koded\" cells, viruses and liposomes are respectively known as kodecytes, and kodevirions.\n\nAll living surfaces are decorated with a diverse range of complex molecules, which are key modulators of chemical communications and other functions such as protection, adhesion, infectivity, apoptosis, etc. Functional-Spacer-Lipid (FSL) Kode constructs can be synthesized to mimic the bioactive components present on biological surfaces, and then re-present them in novel ways.\n\nThe architecture of an FSL Kode construct, as implicit in the name, consists of three components - a functional head group, a spacer, and a lipid tail. This structure is analogous to a Lego minifigure in that, they have three structural components, with each component having a separate purpose. In the examples shown in all the figures, a Lego 'minifig' has been used for the analogy. However, it should be appreciated that this is merely a representation and the true structural similarity is significantly varied between Lego minifigures and FSL Kode constructs \"(fig 1)\". The functional group of an FSL is equivalent to a Lego minifigure head, with both being at the extremity and carrying the character functional components. The spacer of the FSL is equivalent to the body of the Lego minifigure and the arms on the minifigure are representative of substitutions which may be engineered into the chemical makeup of the spacer. The lipid of the FSL anchors it to lipid membranes and gives the FSL construct its amphiphatic nature which can cause it to self-assemble. Because the lipid tail can act directly as an anchor it is analogous to the legs of a Lego minifigure.\n\nThe functional group, the spacer and the lipid tail components of the FSL Kode construct can each be individually designed resulting in FSL Kode constructs with specific biological functions. The functional head group is usually the bioactive component of the construct and the various spacers and lipids influence and effect its presentation, orientation and location on a surface. Critical to the definition of an FSL Kode construct is the requirement to be dispersible in water, and spontaneously and stably incorporate into cell membranes. Other lipid bioconjugates that include components similar to FSLs but do not have these features are not termed as Function-Spacer-Lipid Kode constructs.\n\nA large range of functional groups have already been made into FSL Kode constructs. These include:\n\"Note 1: Multimeric – the presentation of the F residue can be as multimers with controlled spacing and be variable.\"\n\n\"Note 2: Mass – the mass that can be anchored by an FSL Kode constructs can range from 200 to >1x10 Da\"\n\nThe spacer is an integral part of the FSL Kode construct and gives it several important characteristics including water dispersibility.\n\nThe lipid tail is essential for enabling lipid membrane insertion and retention but also for giving the construct amphiphilic characteristics that enable hydrophilic surface coating (due to formation of bilipid layers). Different membrane lipids that can be used to create FSLs have different membrane physiochemical characteristics and thus can affect biological function of the FSL. Lipids in FSL Kode constructs include:\n\nOne of the important functions of an FSL construct is that it can optimise the presentation of antigens, both on cell surfaces and solid-phase membranes. This optimisation is achieved primarily by the spacer, and secondarily by the lipid tail. In a typical immunoassay, the antigen is deposited directly onto the microplate surface and binds to the surface either in a random fashion, or in a preferred orientation depending on the residues present on the surface of this antigen. Usually this deposition process is uncontrolled. In contrast, the FSL Kode construct bound to a microplate presents the antigen away from the surface in an orientation with a high level of exposure to the environment. Furthermore, typical immunoassays use recombinant peptides rather than discrete peptide antigens. As the recombinant peptide is many times bigger than the epitope of interest, a lot of undesired and unwanted peptide sequences are also represented on the microplate. These additional sequences may include unwanted microbial related sequences (as determined by a BLAST analysis) that can cause issues of low level cross-reactivity. Often the mechanism by which an immunoassay is able to overcome this low level activity is to dilute the serum so that the low level microbial reactive antibodies are not seen, and only high-level specific antibodies result in an interpretable result. In contrast, FSL Kode constructs usually use specifically selected peptide fragments (up to 40 amino acids), thereby overcoming cross-reactivity with microbial sequences, and allowing for the use of undiluted serum (which increases sensitivity).\n\nThe F component can be further enhanced by presentation of it in multimeric formats and with specific spacing. The four types of multimeric format include linear repeating units, linear repeating units with spacing, clusters, and branching \"(Fig. 4)\".\n\nThe FSL Kode construct by nature of its composition in possessing both hydrophobic and hydrophilic regions are amphiphilic (or amphipathic). This characteristic determines the way in which the construct will interact with surfaces. When present in a solution they may form simple micelles or adopt more complex bilayer structures with two simplistic examples shown in \"Fig. 5a\". More complex structures are expected. The actual nature of FSL micelles has not been determined. However, based on normal structural function of micelles, it is expected that it will be determined in part by the combination of functional group, spacer and lipid together with temperature, concentration, size and hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity for each FSL Kode construct type.\n\nSurface coatings will occur via two theoretical mechanisms, the first being direct hydrophobic interaction of the lipid tail with a hydrophobic surface resulting in a monolayer of FSL at the surface \"(Fig. 5b)\". Hydrophobic binding of the FSL will be via its hydrophobic lipid tail interacting directly with the hydrophobic (lipophilic) surface. The second surface coating will be through the formation of bilayers as the lipid tail is unable to react with the hydrophilic surface. In this case the lipids will induce the formation of a bilayer, the surface of which will be hydrophilic. This hydrophilic membrane will then interact directly with the hydrophilic surface and will probably encapsulate fibres. This hydrophilic bilayer binding is the expected mechanism by which FSLs are able to bind to fibrous membranes such as paper and glass fibres \"(Fig. 5c)\" and \"(Fig. 9)\".\n\nAfter labeling of the surface with the selected F bioactive(s) the constructs will be present and orientated at the membrane surface. It is expected that the FSL will be highly mobile within the membrane and the choice of lipid tail will effect is relative partitioning within the membrane. The construct unless it has flip-flop behavior is expected to remain surface presented. However, the modification is not permanent in living cells and constructs will be lost (consumed) at a rate proportional to the activity at the membrane and division rate of the cell (with dead cells remaining highly labeled). Additionally, when present \"in vivo\" with serum lipids FSLs will elute from the membrane into the plasma at a rate of about 1% per hour. In fixed cells or inactive cells (e.g. red cells) stored in serum free media the constructs are retained normally.\n\nLiposomes are easy koded by simply adding FSL Kode constructs into the preparation. Contacting koded liposomes with microplates or other surfaces can cause the labeling of the microplate surface.\n\nNon-biologic surface coatings will occur via two mechanisms, the first being direct hydrophobic interaction of the lipid tail with a hydrophobic surface resulting in a monolayer of FSL at the surface. The second surface coating will be through the formation of bilayers, which probably either encapsulate fibres or being via the hydrophilic F group. This is the expected mechanism by which FSLs bind to fibrous membranes such as paper and glass fibres. A recent study has found that when FSL Kode constructs are optimised, could in a few seconds glycosylate almost any non-biological surface including metals, glass, plastics, rubbers, and other polymers.\n\nThe technological features of FSL Kode constructs and the koding process can be summarized as follows:\n\n\nFSL constructs have a wide range of uses and they have been used to modify the following:\n\nFSL constructs, when in solution (saline) and in contact, will spontaneously incorporate into cell and virus membranes. The methodology involves simply preparing a solution of FSL construct(s) in the range of 1–1000 µg/mL. The actual concentration will depend on the construct and the quantity of construct required in the membrane. One part of FSL solution is added to one part of cells (up to 100% suspension) and they are incubated at a set temperature within the range of 4–37 °C (39–99 °F) depending on temperature compatibility of the cells being modified. The higher the temperature, the faster the rate of FSL insertion into the membrane. For red blood cells, at 37 °C incubation for 2 hours achieves >95% insertion with at least 50% insertion being achieved within 20 minutes. In general, FSL insertion time of 4 hours at room temperature or 20 hours at 4 °C gives results similar to 1 hour at 37 °C for carbohydrate based FSLs inserting into red blood cells. The resultant kodecytes or kodevirions do not required to be washed, however this option should be considered if an excess of FSL construct is used in the koding process.\n\nFSL Kode constructs have been used for research and development, diagnostic products, and are currently being investigated as potential therapeutic agents.\n\nFSL have been used to create human red cell kodecytes that have been used to detect and identify blood group allo-antibodies as ABO sub-group mimics, ABO quality control systems, serologic teaching kits and a syphilis diagnostic. Kodecytes have also demonstrated that FSL-FLRO4 is a suitable reagent for labelling packed red blood cells (PRBC) at any point during routine storage and look to facilitate the development of immunoassays and transfusion models focused on addressing the mechanisms involved in tansfusion-related immunomodulation (TRIM). Murine kodecytes have been experimentally used to determine \"in vivo\" cell survival, and create model transfusion reactions. Zebrafish kodecytes have been used to determine real time \"in vivo\" cell migration. Kodecytes have been used to create influenza diagnostics. Kodecytes which have been modified with FSL-GB3 were unable to be infected with the HIV virus.\n\nKodevirions are FSL modified viruses. Several FSL Kode constructs have been used to label viruses to assist in their flow-cytometric visualisation and to track them real time distribution in animal models. They have also been used to modify the surface of viruses with the intention of targeting them to be used to attach tumors (oncolytic).\n\nKodesomes are liposomes that have been decorated with FSL Kode constructs. These have been used to deposit FSL constructs onto microplates to create diagnostic assays. They also have the potential for therapeutic use.\n\nThese are solutions containing FSL Kode constructs where the construct will exist as a clear micellular dispersion. FSL-GB3 as a solution/gel has been used to inhibit HIV infection and to neutralise Shiga toxin. FSL blood group A as a solution has been used to neutralise circulating antibodies in a mouse model and allow incompatible blood group A (murine kodecytes) transfusion. This model experiment was used to demonstrate the potential of FSLs to neutralise circulating antibody and allow for incompatible blood transfusion or organ transplantation.\n\nAll FSL Kode constructs disperse in water and are therefore compatible with inkjet printers. FSL constructs can be printed with a standard desktop inkjet printer directly onto paper to create immunoassays. An empty ink cartridge is filled with an FSL construct and words, barcodes, or graphics are printed. A Perspex template is adhered to the surface to create reaction wells. The method is then a standard EIA procedure, but blocking of serum is not required and undiluted serum can be used. A typical procedure is as follows: add serum, incubate, wash by immersion, add secondary EIA conjugate, incubate, wash, add NBT/BCIP precipitating substrate and stop the reaction when developed by washing \"(Fig. 9)\". The end result is stable for years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212552", "title": "George Cotton", "text": "George Cotton\n\nGeorge Edward Lynch Cotton or Bishop Cotton (29 October 1813 – 6 October 1866) was an English educator and clergyman, known for his connections with British India and the public school system.\n\nHe was born at Chester, a grandson of the late George Cotton, Dean of Chester. He received his education at The King's School, Chester, Westminster School, and at Trinity College, Cambridge. Here he joined the Low Church party, and was a close friend of several disciples of Thomas Arnold, including CJ Vaughan and WJ Conybeare. Arnold's influence determined the character and course of Cotton's life.\n\nHe graduated BA in 1836, and became an assistant master at Rugby School. He became master of the fifth form in about 1840. In 1852 he accepted the appointment of headmaster at Marlborough College. Both Rugby School and Marlborough College boarding houses were subsequently named after him.\n\nIn 1858 Cotton was offered the office of the Bishop of Calcutta, which, after much hesitation, he accepted. The government of India had just been transferred from the British East India Company to the crown, and questions of education were eagerly discussed, following Macaulay's famous \"Minute on Indian Education\".\n\nCotton established schools for British and Eurasian children - the Bishop Cotton School Shimla, the Bishop Cotton Boys' School and Bishop Cotton Girls' School in Bangalore and the Bishop Cotton High School in Nagpur which bear his name. He founded many other schools in India, including St. James' School in Calcutta and Cathedral and John Connon in Bombay.\nAs the senior Anglican prelate in India, he also consecrated a number of new churches throughout the subcontinent, including St. Luke's Church, Abbottabad, and others on what then used to be the 'Punjab Frontier' and later became the North West Frontier Province.\n\nCotton married Sophia Ann Tomkinson, daughter of Reverend Henry Tomkinson, on 26 June 1845. Their son Edward Cotton-Jodrell was later MP for Wirral.\n\nA memoir of his life with selections from his journals and correspondence, edited by his widow, was published in 1871.\n\nOn 6 October 1866, he had consecrated a cemetery at Kushtia on the Ganges, and was crossing a plank leading from the bank to the steamer when he slipped and fell into the river. He was carried away by the current and never seen again.\n\nThe phrase \"to bless one's cotton socks\" is traceable to Cotton's death. While Bishop of Calcutta, Cotton ensured that children in his schools had socks to wear, and he blessed the socks upon their arrival, as he did other goods. Over time, \"Cotton's socks\" became \"Cotton socks\". Upon his sudden death, the Archbishop was asked, \"Who will bless his cotton socks\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "46389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46389", "title": "George II of Great Britain", "text": "George II of Great Britain\n\nGeorge II (George Augustus; ; 30 October / 9 November 1683 – 25 October 1760) was King of Great Britain and Ireland, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (Hanover) and a prince-elector of the Holy Roman Empire from 11 June 1727 (O.S.) until his death in 1760.\n\nGeorge was the last British monarch born outside Great Britain: he was born and brought up in northern Germany. His grandmother, Sophia of Hanover, became second in line to the British throne after about 50 Catholics higher in line were excluded by the Act of Settlement 1701 and the Acts of Union 1707, which restricted the succession to Protestants. After the deaths of Sophia and Anne, Queen of Great Britain, in 1714, his father George I, Elector of Hanover, inherited the British throne. In the first years of his father's reign as king, George was associated with opposition politicians, until they rejoined the governing party in 1720.\n\nAs king from 1727, George exercised little control over British domestic policy, which was largely controlled by the Parliament of Great Britain. As elector, he spent twelve summers in Hanover, where he had more direct control over government policy. He had a difficult relationship with his eldest son, Frederick, who supported the parliamentary opposition. During the War of the Austrian Succession, George participated at the Battle of Dettingen in 1743, and thus became the last British monarch to lead an army in battle. In 1745, supporters of the Catholic claimant to the British throne, James Francis Edward Stuart (\"The Old Pretender\"), led by James's son Charles Edward Stuart (\"The Young Pretender\" or \"Bonnie Prince Charlie\"), attempted and failed to depose George in the last of the Jacobite rebellions. Frederick died unexpectedly in 1751, nine years before his father, so George II was ultimately succeeded by his grandson, George III.\n\nFor two centuries after George II's death, history tended to view him with disdain, concentrating on his mistresses, short temper, and boorishness. Since then, most scholars have reassessed his legacy and conclude that he held and exercised influence in foreign policy and military appointments.\n\nGeorge was born in the city of Hanover in Germany, and was the son of George Louis, Hereditary Prince of Brunswick-Lüneburg (later King George I of Great Britain), and his wife, Sophia Dorothea of Celle. His sister, Sophia Dorothea, was born when he was three years old. Both of George's parents committed adultery, and in 1694 their marriage was dissolved on the pretext that Sophia had abandoned her husband. She was confined to Ahlden House and denied access to her two children, who probably never saw their mother again.\n\nGeorge spoke only French, the language of diplomacy and the court, until the age of four, after which he was taught German by one of his tutors, Johann Hilmar Holstein. In addition to French and German, he was also schooled in English and Italian, and studied genealogy, military history, and battle tactics with particular diligence.\n\nGeorge's second cousin once removed, Queen Anne, ascended the thrones of England, Scotland, and Ireland in 1702. She had no surviving children, and by the Act of Settlement 1701, the English Parliament designated Anne's closest Protestant blood relations, George's grandmother Sophia and her descendants, as Anne's heirs in England and Ireland. Consequently, after his grandmother and father, George was third in line to succeed Anne in two of her three realms. He was naturalized as an English subject in 1705 by the Sophia Naturalization Act, and in 1706, he was made a Knight of the Garter and created Duke and Marquess of Cambridge, Earl of Milford Haven, Viscount Northallerton, and Baron Tewkesbury in the Peerage of England. England and Scotland united in 1707 to form the Kingdom of Great Britain, and jointly accepted the succession as laid down by the English Act of Settlement.\n\nGeorge's father did not want his son to enter into a loveless arranged marriage as he had, and wanted him to have the opportunity of meeting his bride before any formal arrangements were made. Negotiations from 1702 for the hand of Princess Hedvig Sophia of Sweden, Dowager Duchess and regent of Holstein-Gottorp, came to nothing. In June 1705, under the false name of \"Monsieur de Busch\", George visited the Ansbach court at their summer residence in Triesdorf to investigate \"incognito\" a marriage prospect: Caroline of Ansbach, the former ward of his aunt Queen Sophia Charlotte of Prussia. The English envoy to Hanover, Edmund Poley, reported that George was so taken by \"the good character he had of her that he would not think of anybody else\". A marriage contract was concluded by the end of July. On 22 August / 2 September 1705 Caroline arrived in Hanover for her wedding, which was held the same evening in the chapel at Herrenhausen.\n\nGeorge was keen to participate in the war against France in Flanders, but his father refused permission for him to join the army in an active role until he had a son and heir. In early 1707, George's hopes were fulfilled when Caroline gave birth to a son, Frederick. In July, Caroline fell seriously ill with smallpox, and George caught the infection after staying by her side devotedly during her illness. They both recovered. In 1708, George participated in the Battle of Oudenarde in the vanguard of the Hanoverian cavalry; his horse and a colonel immediately beside him were killed, but George survived unharmed. The British commander, Marlborough, wrote that George \"distinguished himself extremely, charging at the head of and animating by his example [the Hanoverian] troops, who played a good part in this happy victory\". Between 1709 and 1713, George and Caroline had three more children, all girls: Anne, Amelia, and Caroline.\n\nBy 1714, Queen Anne's health had declined, and British Whigs, politicians who supported the Hanoverian succession, thought it prudent for one of the Hanoverians to live in England, to safeguard the Protestant succession on Anne's death. As George was a peer of the realm (as Duke of Cambridge), it was suggested that he be summoned to Parliament to sit in the House of Lords. Both Anne and George's father refused to support the plan, although George, Caroline, and Sophia were all in favour. George did not go. Within the year, both Sophia and Anne were dead, and George's father was king.\n\nGeorge and his father sailed for England from The Hague on 16/27 September 1714 and arrived at Greenwich two days later. The following day, they formally entered London in a ceremonial procession. George was given the title of Prince of Wales. Caroline followed her husband to Britain in October with their daughters, while Frederick remained in Hanover to be brought up by private tutors. London was like nothing George had seen before; it was 50 times larger than Hanover, and the crowd was estimated at up to one and a half million spectators. George courted popularity with voluble expressions of praise for the English, and claimed that he had no drop of blood that was not English.\n\nIn July 1716, the king returned to Hanover for six months, and George was given limited powers, as \"Guardian and Lieutenant of the Realm\", to govern in his father's absence. He made a royal progress through Chichester, Havant, Portsmouth, and Guildford in southern England. Spectators were allowed to see him dine in public at Hampton Court Palace. An attempt on his life at Drury Lane Theatre, in which one person was shot dead before the assailant was brought under control, boosted his high public profile.\n\nHis father distrusted or was jealous of George's popularity, which contributed to the development of a poor relationship between them. The birth in 1717 of George's second son, Prince George William, proved to be a catalyst for a family quarrel; the king, supposedly following custom, appointed the Lord Chamberlain, the Duke of Newcastle, as one of the baptismal sponsors of the child. The king was angered when George, who disliked Newcastle, verbally insulted the duke at the christening, which the duke misunderstood as a challenge to a duel. George and Caroline were temporarily confined to their apartments on the order of the king, who subsequently banished his son from St James's Palace, the king's residence. The Prince and Princess of Wales left court, but their children remained in the care of the king.\n\nGeorge and Caroline missed their children, and were desperate to see them. On one occasion, they secretly visited the palace without the approval of the king; Caroline fainted and George \"cried like a child\". The king partially relented and permitted them to visit once a week, though he later allowed Caroline unconditional access. The following February, George William died, with his father by his side.\n\nBanned from the palace and shunned by his own father, the Prince of Wales was identified for the next several years with opposition to George I's policies, which included measures designed to increase religious freedom in Great Britain and expand Hanover's German territories at the expense of Sweden. His new London residence, Leicester House, became a frequent meeting place for his father's political opponents, including Sir Robert Walpole and Viscount Townshend, who had left the government in 1717.\n\nThe king visited Hanover again from May to November 1719. Instead of appointing George to the guardianship, he established a regency council. In 1720, Walpole encouraged the king and his son to reconcile, for the sake of public unity, which they did half-heartedly. Walpole and Townshend returned to political office, and rejoined the ministry. George was soon disillusioned with the terms of the reconciliation; his three daughters who were in the care of the king were not returned and he was still barred from becoming regent during the king's absences. He came to believe that Walpole had tricked him into the rapprochement as part of a scheme to regain power. Over the next few years, Caroline and he lived quietly, avoiding overt political activity. They had three more children: William, Mary, and Louisa, who were brought up at Leicester House and Richmond Lodge, George's summer residence.\n\nIn 1721, the economic disaster of the South Sea Bubble allowed Walpole to rise to the pinnacle of government. Walpole and his Whig Party were dominant in politics, as the king feared that the Tories would not support the succession laid down in the Act of Settlement. The power of the Whigs was so great that the Tories would not come to hold power for another half-century.\n\nGeorge I died on 11/22 June 1727 during one of his visits to Hanover, and George II succeeded him as king and elector at the age of 43. The new king decided not to travel to Germany for his father's funeral, which far from bringing criticism led to praise from the English who considered it proof of his fondness for England. He suppressed his father's will because it attempted to split the Hanoverian succession between George II's future grandsons rather than vest all the domains (both in Britain and Hanover) in a single person. Both British and Hanoverian ministers considered the will unlawful, as George I did not have the legal power to determine the succession personally. Critics supposed that George II hid the will to avoid paying out his father's legacies.\n\nGeorge II was crowned at Westminster Abbey on 11/22 October 1727. The composer George Frideric Handel was commissioned to write four new anthems for the coronation, including \"Zadok the Priest\".\n\nIt was widely believed that George would dismiss Walpole, who had distressed him by joining his father's government, and replace him with Sir Spencer Compton. George asked Compton, rather than Walpole, to write his first speech as king for him, but Compton asked Walpole to draft it. Caroline advised George to retain Walpole, who continued to gain royal favour by securing a generous civil list (a fixed annual amount set by Parliament for the king's official expenditure) of £800,000. Walpole commanded a substantial majority in Parliament and George had little choice but to retain him or risk ministerial instability. Compton was ennobled as Lord Wilmington the following year.\n\nWalpole directed domestic policy, and after the resignation of his brother-in-law Townshend in 1730 also controlled George's foreign policy. Historians generally believe that George played an honorific role in Britain, and closely followed the advice of Walpole and senior ministers who made the major decisions. Although the king was eager for war in Europe, his ministers were more cautious. The Anglo-Spanish War was brought to an end, and George unsuccessfully pressed Walpole to join the War of the Polish Succession on the side of the German states. In April 1733, Walpole withdrew an unpopular excise bill that had gathered strong opposition, including from within his own party. George lent support to Walpole by dismissing the bill's opponents from their court offices.\n\nGeorge II's relationship with his son and heir apparent, Frederick, Prince of Wales, worsened during the 1730s. Frederick had been left behind in Germany when his parents came to England, and they had not met for 14 years. In 1728, he was brought to England, and swiftly became a figurehead of the political opposition. When George visited Hanover in the summers of 1729, 1732 and 1735, he left his wife to chair the regency council in Britain rather than his son. Meanwhile, rivalry between George II and his brother-in-law and first cousin Frederick William I of Prussia led to tension along the Prussian–Hanoverian border, which eventually culminated in the mobilization of troops in the border zone and suggestions of a duel between the two kings. Negotiations for a marriage between the Prince of Wales and Frederick William's daughter Wilhelmine dragged on for years but neither side would make the concessions demanded by the other, and the idea was shelved. Instead, the prince married Princess Augusta of Saxe-Gotha in April 1736.\n\nIn May 1736, George returned to Hanover, which resulted in unpopularity in England; a satirical notice was even pinned to the gates of St James's Palace decrying his absence. \"Lost or strayed out of this house\", it read, \"a man who has left a wife and six children on the parish.\" The king made plans to return in the face of inclement December weather; when his ship was caught in a storm, gossip swept London that he had drowned. Eventually, in January 1737, he arrived back in England. Immediately he fell ill, with piles and a fever, and withdrew to his bed. The Prince of Wales put it about that the king was dying, with the result that George insisted on getting up and attending a social event to disprove the gossip-mongers.\n\nWhen the Prince of Wales applied to Parliament for an increase in his allowance, an open quarrel broke out. The king, who had a reputation for meanness, offered a private settlement, which Frederick rejected. Parliament voted against the measure, but George reluctantly increased his son's allowance on the advice of Walpole. Further friction between them followed when Frederick excluded the king and queen from the birth of his daughter in July 1737 by bundling his wife, who was in labour, into a coach and driving off in the middle of the night. George banished him and his family from the royal court, much like the punishment his own father had brought upon him with the exception that he allowed Frederick to retain custody of his children.\n\nSoon afterwards, George's wife Caroline died on 20 November 1737 (O.S.). He was deeply affected by her death, and to the surprise of many displayed \"a tenderness of which the world thought him before utterly incapable\". On her deathbed she told her sobbing husband to remarry, to which he replied, \"Non, j'aurai des maîtresses!\" (French for \"No, I shall have mistresses!\"). It was common knowledge that George had already had mistresses during his marriage, and he had kept Caroline informed about them. Henrietta Howard, later Countess of Suffolk, had moved to Hanover with her husband during the reign of Queen Anne, and she had been one of Caroline's women of the bedchamber. She was his mistress from before the accession of George I until November 1734. She was followed by Amalie von Wallmoden, later Countess of Yarmouth, whose son, Johann Ludwig von Wallmoden, may have been fathered by George. Johann Ludwig was born while Amalie was still married to her husband, and George did not acknowledge him publicly as his own son.\n\nAgainst Walpole's wishes, but to George's delight, Britain reopened hostilities with Spain in 1739. Britain's conflict with Spain, the War of Jenkins' Ear, became part of the War of the Austrian Succession when a major European dispute broke out upon the death of Holy Roman Emperor Charles VI in 1740. At issue was the right of Charles's daughter, Maria Theresa, to succeed to his Austrian dominions. George spent the summers of 1740 and 1741 in Hanover, where he was more able to intervene directly in European diplomatic affairs in his capacity as elector.\n\nPrince Frederick campaigned actively for the opposition in the British general election of 1741, and Walpole was unable to secure a stable majority. Walpole attempted to buy off the prince with the promise of an increased allowance and offered to pay off his debts, but Frederick refused. With his support eroded, Walpole retired in 1742 after over 20 years in office. He was replaced by Spencer Compton, Lord Wilmington, whom George had originally considered for the premiership in 1727. Lord Wilmington, however, was a figurehead; actual power was held by others, such as Lord Carteret, George's favourite minister after Walpole. When Wilmington died in 1743, Henry Pelham took his place at the head of the government.\nThe pro-war faction was led by Carteret, who claimed that French power would increase if Maria Theresa failed to succeed to the Austrian throne. George agreed to send 12,000 hired Hessian and Danish mercenaries to Europe, ostensibly to support Maria Theresa. Without conferring with his British ministers, George stationed them in Hanover to prevent enemy French troops from marching into the electorate. The British army had not fought in a major European war in over 20 years, and the government had badly neglected its upkeep. George had pushed for greater professionalism in the ranks, and promotion by merit rather than by sale of commissions, but without much success. An allied force of Austrian, British, Dutch, Hanoverian and Hessian troops engaged the French at the Battle of Dettingen on 16/27 June 1743. George personally accompanied them, leading them to victory, thus becoming the last British monarch to lead troops into battle. Though his actions in the battle were admired, the war became unpopular with the British public, who felt that the king and Carteret were subordinating British interests to Hanoverian ones. Carteret lost support, and to George's dismay resigned in 1744.\n\nTension grew between the Pelham ministry and George, as he continued to take advice from Carteret and rejected pressure from his other ministers to include William Pitt the Elder in the Cabinet, which would have broadened the government's support base. The king disliked Pitt because he had previously opposed government policy and attacked measures seen as pro-Hanoverian. In February 1746, Pelham and his followers resigned. George asked Lord Bath and Carteret to form an administration, but after less than 48 hours they returned the seals of office, unable to secure sufficient parliamentary support. Pelham returned to office triumphant, and George was forced to appoint Pitt to the ministry.\n\nGeorge's French opponents encouraged rebellion by the Jacobites, the supporters of the Roman Catholic claimant to the British throne, James Francis Edward Stuart, often known as the Old Pretender. Stuart was the son of James II, who had been deposed in 1688 and replaced by his Protestant relations. Two prior rebellions in 1715 and 1719 had failed. In July 1745, the Old Pretender's son, Charles Edward Stuart, popularly known as Bonnie Prince Charlie or the Young Pretender, landed in Scotland, where support for his cause was highest. George, who was summering in Hanover, returned to London at the end of August. The Jacobites defeated British forces in September at the Battle of Prestonpans, and then moved south into England. The Jacobites failed to gain further support, and the French reneged on a promise of help. Losing morale, the Jacobites retreated back into Scotland. On 16/27 April 1746, Charles faced George's military-minded son Prince William, Duke of Cumberland, in the Battle of Culloden, the last pitched battle fought on British soil. The ravaged Jacobite troops were routed by the government army. Charles escaped to France, but many of his supporters were caught and executed. Jacobitism was all but crushed; no further serious attempt was made at restoring the House of Stuart. The War of the Austrian Succession continued until 1748, when Maria Theresa was recognized as Archduchess of Austria. The peace was celebrated by a fête in Green Park, London, for which Handel composed \"Music for the Royal Fireworks\".\n\nIn the general election of 1747, the Prince of Wales again campaigned actively for the opposition but Pelham's party won easily. Like his father before him, the Prince entertained opposition figures at his house in Leicester Square. When the Prince of Wales died suddenly in 1751, his eldest son, Prince George, became heir apparent. The king commiserated with the Dowager Princess of Wales and wept with her. As her son would not reach the age of majority until 1756, a new British Regency Act was passed to make her regent, assisted by a council led by the Duke of Cumberland, in case of George II's death. The king also made a new will, which provided for Cumberland to be sole regent in Hanover. After the death of his daughter Louisa at the end of the year, George lamented, \"This has been a fatal year for my family. I lost my eldest son – but I am glad of it ... Now [Louisa] is gone. I know I did not love my children when they were young: I hated to have them running into my room; but now I love them as well as most fathers.\"\n\nIn 1754, Pelham died, to be succeeded by his elder brother, the Duke of Newcastle. Hostility between France and Britain, particularly over the colonization of North America, continued. Fearing a French invasion of Hanover, George aligned himself with Prussia (ruled by his nephew, Frederick the Great), the enemy of Austria. Russia and France allied with their former enemy Austria. A French invasion of the British-held island of Minorca led to the outbreak of the Seven Years' War in 1756. Public disquiet over British failures at the start of the conflict led to the resignation of Newcastle and the appointment of the Duke of Devonshire as prime minister and William Pitt the Elder as Secretary of State for the Southern Department. In April the following year, George dismissed Pitt, in an attempt to construct an administration more to his liking. Over the succeeding three months attempts to form another stable ministerial combination failed. In June, James Waldegrave, 2nd Earl Waldegrave, held the seals of office for only four days. By the start of July, Pitt was recalled, and the Duke of Newcastle returned as prime minister. As Secretary of State, Pitt guided policy relating to the war. Great Britain, Hanover and Prussia and their allies Hesse-Kassel and Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel were pitted against other European powers, including France, Austria, Russia, Sweden and Saxony. The war involved multiple theatres from Europe to North America and India, where British dominance increased with the victories of Robert Clive over French forces and their allies at the Battle of Arcot and the Battle of Plassey.\n\nGeorge's son, the Duke of Cumberland, commanded the king's troops in northern Germany. In 1757, Hanover was invaded and George gave Cumberland full powers to conclude a separate peace. By September, however, he was furious at Cumberland's negotiated settlement, which he felt greatly favoured the French. George said his son had \"ruined me and disgraced himself\". Cumberland, by his own choice, resigned his military offices, and George revoked the peace deal on the grounds that the French had infringed it by disarming Hessian troops after the ceasefire.\n\nIn the \"annus mirabilis\" of 1759 British forces captured Quebec and Guadeloupe. A French plan to invade Britain was defeated following naval battles at Lagos and Quiberon Bay, and a resumed French advance on Hanover was halted by a joint British–Hanoverian force at the Battle of Minden.\n\nBy October 1760, George II was blind in one eye and hard of hearing. On the morning of 25 October, he rose as usual at 6:00 am, drank a cup of hot chocolate, and went to his close stool, alone. After a few minutes, his valet heard a loud crash and entered the room to find the king on the floor. The king was lifted into his bed, and Princess Amelia was sent for; before she reached him, he was dead. At the age of nearly 77, he had lived longer than any of his English or British predecessors. A post-mortem revealed that the right ventricle of the king's heart had ruptured as the result of an incipient aortic aneurysm.\n\nGeorge II was succeeded by his grandson George III, and was buried on 11 November in Westminster Abbey. He left instructions for the sides of his and his wife's coffins to be removed so that their remains could mingle. He is the most recent monarch to be buried in Westminster Abbey.\n\nGeorge donated the royal library to the British Museum in 1757, four years after the museum's foundation. He had no interest in reading, or in the arts and sciences, and preferred to spend his leisure hours stag-hunting on horseback or playing cards. In 1737, he founded the Georg August University of Göttingen, the first university in the Electorate of Hanover, and visited it in 1748. The asteroid 359 Georgia was named in his honour at the University in 1902. He served as the Chancellor of Trinity College, Dublin, between 1716 and 1727, and in 1754 issued the charter for King's College in New York City, which later became Columbia University. The province of Georgia, founded by royal charter in 1732, was named after him.\n\nDuring George II's reign British interests expanded throughout the world, the Jacobite challenge to the Hanoverian dynasty was extinguished, and the power of ministers and Parliament in Britain became well-established. Nevertheless, in the memoirs of contemporaries such as Lord Hervey and Horace Walpole, George is depicted as a weak buffoon, governed by his wife and ministers. Biographies of George written during the nineteenth and first part of the twentieth century relied on these biased accounts. Since the last quarter of the twentieth century, scholarly analysis of surviving correspondence has indicated that George was not as ineffective as previously thought. Letters from ministers are annotated by George with pertinent remarks and demonstrate that he had a grasp of and interest in foreign policy in particular. He was often able to prevent the appointment of ministers or commanders he disliked, or sideline them into lesser offices. This academic reassessment of George II, however, has not totally eliminated the popular perception of him as a \"faintly ludicrous king\". His parsimony, for example, may have opened him to ridicule, but his biographers observe that parsimony is preferable to extravagance. Lord Charlemont excused George's short temper by explaining that sincerity of feeling is better than deception, \"His temper was warm and impetuous, but he was good-natured and sincere. Unskilled in the royal talent of dissimulation, he always was what he appeared to be. He might offend, but he never deceived.\" Lord Waldegrave wrote, \"I am thoroughly convinced that hereafter, when time shall have wore away those specks and blemishes which sully the brightest characters, and from which no man is totally exempt, he will be numbered amongst those patriot kings, under whose government the people have enjoyed the greatest happiness\". George may not have played a strong role in history, but he was influential at times and he upheld constitutional government. Elizabeth Montagu said of him, \"With him our laws and liberties were safe, he possessed in a great degree the confidence of his people and the respect of foreign governments; and a certain steadiness of character made him of great consequence in these unsettled times ... His character would not afford subject for epic poetry, but will look well in the sober page of history.\"\n\nIn Britain:\n\nGeorge II's full style was \"George the Second, by the Grace of God, King of Great Britain, France and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, Archtreasurer and Prince-Elector of the Holy Roman Empire\".\n\nWhen George became Prince of Wales in 1714, he was granted the royal arms with an inescutcheon of gules plain in the Hanoverian quarter differenced overall by a label of three points argent. The crest included the single arched coronet of his rank. As king, he used the royal arms as used by his father undifferenced.\n\nCaroline's ten pregnancies resulted in eight live births. One of their children died in infancy, and seven lived to adulthood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48306720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48306720", "title": "Gleydson Carvalho", "text": "Gleydson Carvalho\n\nGleydson Carvalho, (25 April 1982 – 7 August 2015), a Brazilian radio talk show host and journalist for Radio Liberdade FM in Camocim, Ceará, Brazil. Carvalho was known for his attacks on local government corruption. He was shot in the head and chest multiple times while on air.\n\nGleydson Carvalho was a Brazilian born on 25 April 1982. He was known to be the Radio DJ that commonly spoke of political corruption during his show. Carvalho was well known for his long-standing campaign against government corruption. Gleydson worked in Camocim, Ceará, Brazil. This is where he was later assassinated on 7 August 2015.\n\nGleydson Carvalho was a radio talk show host for Radio Liberdade FM. Carvalho was known for having strong political views while on the air and had received many death threats. His career was made by the amount of political views and opinions he put into his show. Gleydson Carvalho was so popular he had his own show at lunchtime.\n\nCarvalho was assassinated during a live broadcast. This broadcast took place at the Radio Liberdade FM in the Brazilian state of Ceará. According to the media, the assassins overpowered the receptionist before gaining entry to Gleydson Carvalho's recording studio. The intruders stated that they would like to place and ad. After gaining entry the assassins shot Carvalho five times (3 times in the head and twice in the chest). Carvalho died as he was taken to a nearby hospital. The killers fled on a white motorbike, but it was not long until the authorities found them.\n\nThe last that has been heard for the arrest of these killers is that they had two suspects in connection of the killing. These suspects may or may not have been linked to the assassination of Gleydson Carvalho. These people are Francisco Carneiro Portela ad Gisele Sousa do Nascmiento. The two men that remain at large are Tiago Lemos da Silva and Jefferson nicknames \"Dudu\".\n\nGleydson Carvalho was the fourth journalist killed in Brazil in 2015. In early March 2015, Gerardo Ceferino Servian Coronel was also fatally shot. He too was a radio journalist. Evany José Metzker was decapitated May 2015. Lastly, Djalma Santos da Conceicao was found tortured. CPJ reports that at least 16 journalists have been killed since 2011, ranking Brazil eleventh on the CPJ's 2014 Global Impunity Index.\n\nGleydson Carvalho was well known for his long-standing, vocal reporting about government corruption. When Carvalho was killed it had created an uproar. Human rights groups in Brazil were outside of major urban centers around the country. Without Carvalho's knowing, he got these groups to fight for the journalist's lives that had been taken from them because of their jobs.\n\nIrina Bokova, the director-general of UNESCO, said, \"Journalists are the voices of the people and when violence is used to silence one of them, society as a whole suffers. I call on the authorities to investigate this crime and bring its perpetrators to court to be punished in keeping with Brazil's legal provisions.\"\n\nA statement from Committee to Protect Journalists said, \"Authorities must take action to combat a press freedom crisis that is violating the right of all Brazilians to be informed, not to mention ending journalists' lives.\"\n"}
{"id": "2830083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2830083", "title": "Huronian glaciation", "text": "Huronian glaciation\n\nThe Huronian glaciation (or Makganyene glaciation) was a glaciation that extended from 2.4 billion years ago (Gya) to 2.1 Gya, during the Siderian and Rhyacian periods of the Paleoproterozoic era. The Huronian glaciation followed the Great Oxygenation Event (GOE), a time when increased atmospheric oxygen decreased atmospheric methane. The oxygen combined with the methane to form carbon dioxide and water, which do not retain heat as well as methane does.\n\nIt is the oldest and longest ice age, occurring at a time when only simple, unicellular life existed on Earth. This ice age led to a mass extinction on Earth.\n\nArthur Philemon Coleman first described the geological formations, and their origin in a \"A lower Huronian ice age\" in a 1907 article for the American Journal of Science.\n\nThis geological formation, in the geographic area of Lake Huron, consists of two non-glacial sediment deposits found between three horizons of glacial deposits of the Huronian Supergroup, deposited between 2.5 and 2.2 billion years ago.\n\nThe Gowganda formation (2.3 Gya) contains \"the most widespread and most convincing glaciogenic deposits of this era\", according to Eyles and Young. Similar deposits are found in Michigan (2.1–2 Gya), the Black Hills (2.6–1.6 Gya), Chibougamau, Canadian Northern Territories (2.1 Gya) and Wyoming. Similar age deposits occur in the Griquatown Basin (2.3 Gya), India (1.8 Gya) and Australia (2.5—2.0 Gya).\n\nThe tectonic setting was one of a rifting continental margin. New continental crust would have resulted in chemical weathering. This weathering would pull CO out of the atmosphere, cooling the planet through the reduction in greenhouse effect.\n\nBefore the Huronian Ice Age, most organisms were anaerobic, but around this time, the cyanobacteria evolved oxygenic photosynthesis. These bacteria were able to reproduce at exponential rates due to their new ecological niche, exploiting the near-limitless energy of the sunlight. Their photosynthesis produced oxygen as a waste product expelled into the air. At first, most of this oxygen was absorbed through the oxidization of surface iron and the decomposition of life forms. However, as the population of the cyanobacteria continued to grow, these oxygen sinks became saturated. This had consequences:\n\nThe Huronian Ice Age is thought to be the first time Earth was completely covered in ice, and to have practically stopped photosynthesis. \n\nThese formations include interglacial periods. These interglacials, and eventually the end of the glacial era, could be the result of a build-up of carbon dioxide in Earth's atmosphere from volcanic sources, because photosynthetic consumption of this gas was below its production by out-gassing. This would result in an increased greenhouse effect, leading to warming and interglacial periods. Then photosynthesis would resume, and CO concentration would drop sufficiently that glaciation would occur again. Reasons why glaciation did not resume at the end of the Huronian era are still debated.\n\n"}
{"id": "10836019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10836019", "title": "Hypnopompic", "text": "Hypnopompic\n\nThe hypnopompic state (or hypnopompia) is the state of consciousness leading out of sleep, a term coined by the psychical researcher Frederic Myers. Its mirror is the hypnagogic state at sleep onset; though often conflated, the two states are not identical. The hypnagogic state is rational waking cognition trying to make sense of non-linear images and associations; the hypnopompic state is emotional and credulous dreaming cognition trying to make sense of real world stolidity. They have a different phenomenological character. Depressed frontal lobe function in the first few minutes after waking – known as \"sleep inertia\" – causes slowed reaction time and impaired short-term memory. Sleepers often wake confused, or speak without making sense, a phenomenon the psychologist Peter McKeller calls \"hypnopompic speech\". When the awakening occurs out of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, in which most dreams occur, the hypnopompic state is sometimes accompanied by lingering vivid imagery. Some of the creative insights attributed to dreams actually happen in this moment of awakening from REM. In Deirdre Barrett's \"The Committee of Sleep\", Margie Profet's McArthur Award-winning biology experiment is shown to be one of these.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3288209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288209", "title": "Ian Hendry", "text": "Ian Hendry\n\nIan Mackendrick Hendry (13 January 1931 – 24 December 1984) was an English film, television and stage actor. He was best known for his work on several British TV series of the 1960s and 1970s, including the lead in the first series of \"The Avengers\" and \"The Lotus Eaters\", as well as for his roles in films such as \"The Hill\" (1965), \"Repulsion\" (1965), \"Get Carter\" (1971), and \"Theatre of Blood\" (1973).\n\nHendry was born in Ipswich, Suffolk on 13 January 1931. His father, James Hendry, was born in 1901 in Glasgow. James Hendry earned a degree in Chemistry from Glasgow University before moving to Ipswich in 1924 to take up a graduate position with R & W Paul Ltd. (now BOCM Pauls Ltd). Ian's mother, Enid (née Rushton), was born in Durham in 1906. Her father, George Rushton, was an artist and Head of the Ipswich Art School from 1906-29.\nIan's younger brother, Donald, was born on 15 August 1933. Both Ian and his brother were educated at the Ipswich School and Culford School, Suffolk. At Culford School, Ian Hendry had a keen interest in sports, particularly boxing, cricket, running and rugby. He was also involved in amateur dramatics at Culford, helping to produce and perform in several school plays.\n\nOn leaving school in 1947, aged 16, Hendry initially embarked on a very different career, studying at the College of Estate Management in London. In 1948, he spent a year working for Bidwells at their Cambridge office. In 1949, Hendry began his National Service as part of the compulsory conscription in the United Kingdom, which was introduced after the end of World War II in 1945. He spent two years with the 32nd Medium Regiment, Royal Artillery. During this time, Hendry paced for Christopher Chataway in athletics and ran his own motorcycle stunt team. On completion of his service he returned to work in Estate Management.\n\nFrom 1951-53, Hendry returned to work for Bidwells, but this time he was based in their Edgware office in London. During this period, Hendry re-established his interest in acting, becoming involved in Amateur theatre through a local amateur dramatics group in Edgware.\n\nBy 1953, Hendry had decided that he wanted to change his career and follow his ambition of becoming an actor. In late 1952, he had applied for a place at the Central School of Speech and Drama, London, where he was accepted and trained from 1953-55. Contemporaries at the school at that time included Judi Dench and Vanessa Redgrave, who were both two years below him; Wanda Ventham, his future co-star in the series \"The Lotus Eaters\", who was in the year below; and Jeremy Brett and Wendy Craig, who were in the year above him.\n\nHis professional acting career began in 1955, working in repertory at the Hornchurch Theatre in Station Lane. He was also seen in Goldoni's \"Servant of Two Masters\" at the Edinburgh Festival. In 1957, Hendry spent another season in repertory, performing in several plays at the Oxford Playhouse, Oxford. In December 1957, \"Dinner With The Family\" transferred to the West End, playing at the New Theatre, London.\n\nAs his career developed, he gained parts in films including \"Up in the World\" (1956), \"The Secret Place\" (1957) and \"Room at the Top\" (1959).\n\nIn 1960, Hendry had a part in \"Sink the Bismarck!\" (1960), before landing the lead role of Dr Geoffrey Brent in the crime series \"Police Surgeon\". \n\nThe series only ran for 12 episodes but Hendry was next cast in the very similar role of Dr David Keel in a new action-adventure series entitled \"The Avengers\". Initially, Hendry was the star of this series, which co-starred Patrick Macnee as John Steed. However, production of the first season was curtailed by a strike and Hendry used the opportunity to depart the series and begin a film career. (\"The Avengers\" continued for the rest of the decade with Macnee as its star.)\n\nHendry had a lead role in films such as \"Girl in the Headlines\" (1963), \"The Hill\" (1965) opposite Sean Connery, and Roman Polanski's \"Repulsion\" (1965). He starred in Gerry Anderson's film, \"Doppelgänger\" (1969), also known as \"Journey to the Far Side of the Sun\". During the 1960s he appeared in TV series such as \"Armchair Theatre\", \"Danger Man\", \"The Saint\" and \"The Gold Robbers\". He played the lead role as disbarred Queen's Counsel Alex Lambert in the TV series \"The Informer\" (1966–67).\n\nIn the early 1970s, Hendry took lead roles in several TV series such as \"The Adventures of Don Quick\" (1970) and \"The Lotus Eaters\" (1972–73). He guest starred, alongside Brian Blessed, in the first episode of \"The Sweeney\", titled \"Ringer\", made in 1974 and broadcast early in 1975. He appeared regularly as a guest star in TV series such as \"The Persuaders!\", \"Dial M For Murder\", \"Churchill's People\", \"Thriller\", \"Van Der Valk\", \"Supernatural\", \"Crown Court\", \"The Enigma Files\", \"Bergerac\" and \"The Chinese Detective\". Hendry was reunited with Patrick Macnee as a guest star on \"The New Avengers\", although he did not reprise the role of David Keel. His previous role in the series was acknowledged, however, by Steed's parting words: \"It may be seventeen years late, but welcome back Gunner.\" \n\nHe appeared in a number of films, including the Hammer entry \"Captain Kronos – Vampire Hunter\" (1974). Among the more widely seen films he appeared in during this time were \"Get Carter\" (1971), for which he received a BAFTA nomination for Best Supporting Actor, \"Theatre of Blood\" (1973) opposite Vincent Price, \"The Passenger\" (1975) and \"\" (1978).\n\nHendry starred opposite Nyree Dawn Porter in the TV series \"For Maddie With Love\" (1980). In 1980 Hendry starred in the film McVicar based on bank robber John McVicar (played by Roger Daltrey of rock band The Who). Towards the end of his life he had a role in the crime series \"Jemima Shore Investigates\" as the eponymous heroine's literary agent. His final TV role was in the Channel Four soap opera \"Brookside\" (1984).\n\nHendry's first marriage was to Phyllis J. Bell in September 1955, a make-up artist who worked for Leichner, whom he first met when he began work in repertory theatre. The marriage ended in 1962. He married actress Janet Munro on 16 February 1963. They had two daughters, Sally and Corrie, but their turbulent life together ended in divorce in 1971. Munro died a year later in London from the heart condition myocarditis. This was a contributory factor in Hendry's increasing dependence on alcohol. Hendry later married Sandra (Sandy) Jones on 27 May 1975, with whom he had another daughter, Emma.\n\nHendry was declared bankrupt in the late 1970s. He suffered from several health problems in his latter years, largely due to his long-term problems with alcohol which affected his professional and personal life. \n\nHis last part in a film was a substantial, though uncredited, role as a corrupt policeman in \"McVicar\". His last public appearance was as a guest on \"This Is Your Life\" which profiled former co-star Macnee, who had been a special guest when \"This Is Your Life\" featured Hendry in March 1978.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 1984, Hendry died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage in London, aged 53. He was cremated and his ashes interred in the Lily Pond beds at the Golders Green Crematorium.\n\nHershman, Gabriel. \"Send In The Clowns – The Yo Yo Life Of Ian Hendry\", Lulu.com, 2013; \n\n"}
{"id": "22730440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22730440", "title": "Jack Reagan", "text": "Jack Reagan\n\nJohn Edward \"Jack\" Reagan (July 13, 1883 – May 18, 1941) was the father of radio station manager Neil Reagan (1908–1996) and Ronald Reagan (1911–2004), motion picture actor, 33rd Governor of California, and 40th President of the United States of America\n\nJack's paternal grandfather, Michael O'Regan, was a native of County Tipperary, Ireland. O'Regan worked as a tenant farmer during his early years in Ireland, before he moved to London in 1852. O'Regan married an Irish refugee, Catherine Mulcahey, in London and anglicised his family surname as \"Reagan\". The Reagans relocated to Carroll County, Illinois in 1856. John Michael, their son, became a grain-elevator farmer, and married Jenny Cusick in 1878. Cusick was born in Canada, but like John Michael, her parents came from Ireland. Their son, John Edward \"Jack\", was born five years later.\n\nAt the time of Ronald Reagan's birth in 1911, Jack was working at a store in Tampico, Illinois.\n\nHe died on May 19, 1941, at the age of 57 after a series of heart attacks.\n\n\nGeneral\n"}
{"id": "33950416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33950416", "title": "Jalal Alamgir", "text": "Jalal Alamgir\n\nJalal Alamgir (17 January 1971 – 3 December 2011), was a Bangladeshi-American academic and an associate professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts-Boston and the son of Awami League Member of Parliament Muhiuddin Khan Alamgir. He specialised in the inter-relationships between globalisation and representational politics. He died in a drowning accident in Thailand on 3 December 2011.\n\nAlamgir held a Ph.D. from Brown University. He was a tenured faculty at University of Massachusetts-Boston, holding the position of associate professor of political science. He was also a fellow at the South Asia Initiative at Harvard University. Prior to joining UMass, Alamgir held research appointments at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, the Southern Asian Institute at Columbia University, and the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. Aside from his research, he consulted for the United Nations Population Fund and strategy consulting organizations.\n\nAt the time of his death, Alamgir was working on several research projects: political violence and justice in Bangladesh and Pakistan, foreign policy of Bangladesh, the representation of values in Indian foreign policy, and the relationship between authoritarianism and globalization in Myanmar.\n\nIn addition to his academic career, Alamgir was a principal at Red Bridge Strategy, Inc., which he described as a consultancy he co-founded \"to help organizations globalize their operations with locally and informed strategies.\" Describing the relationship between his academic and consulting work, he said, \"The university involves me with cutting-edge research and blue-sky thinking, and I get to meet many scholars and students– wonderful, eccentric, motivated– all helping us to understand the world better. At Red Bridge Strategy, I get to try out some of the ideas I develop in academia, applying them to real world problems and puzzles that need to be 'solved' within a limited time, limited resources, and with a pragmatic approach.\"\n\nAlamgir's first book, \"India's Open-Economy Policy: Globalism, Rivalry, Continuity\" was selected by \"Asia Policy\" as a recommended book for its 2008 \"Policymaker's Library\" and was nominated for the Association for Asian Studies' Ananda Kentish Coomaraswamy Book Prize.\n\nAlamgir's scholarly essays include \"The 1971 Genocide: War Crimes and Political Crimes\" and \"Bangladesh's Fresh Start.\" Other papers appeared in \"International Studies Review\", \"Asian Survey\", \"Asian Studies Review\", \"Issues and Studies\", \"Pacific Affairs\", \"Brown Economic Review\", \"The Journal of Contemporary Asia\", \"The Journal of Bangladesh Studies\", \"The Journal of Social Studies\", \"Encyclopedia of Globalization\", \"States in the Global Economy\" (ed. Linda Weiss, Cambridge University Press), and \"Globalization and Politics in India\" (ed. Baldev Raj Nayar, Oxford University Press).\n\nHe also wrote for different newspapers and magazines, including \"Foreign Policy\", \"Current History\", \"The Nation\", \"China Daily\", \"openDemocracy\", \"GlobalPost\", \"The Daily Star\" Forum, \"Catamaran: Journal of South Asian American Writing\", and the \"Huffington Post\". Dr. Alamgir's commentary and opinion were featured in \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", and \"The Boston Globe\", and aired on WBAI Radio (New York), NEEN (Boston), Deutsche Welle Radio (Germany), and Voice of America (Washington, DC).\n\nAlamgir was a member of Drishtipat, a global network of Bangladeshi activists, and participated in the Drishtipat Writers' Collective. In 2007, he led a campaign protesting the detention of his father, Member of Parliament Muhiuddin Khan Alamgir by Bangladesh's military-led Caretaker government. He cycled 85 miles for the Pan-Mass Challenge to raise funds for cancer research, inspired by the experience of his mother's treatment for cancer at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston.\n\nAlamgir was in Thailand with his wife Fazeela Morshed for a holiday in December 2011. He drowned while snorkeling at Yanui Beach in Phuket. Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina issued a condolence message in which she \"prayed for the salvation of the departed soul and conveyed her sympathy to the bereaved family.\" Academics Borhanuddin Khan Jahangir, Muntassir Mamoon, Khandakar Rashidul Huq Noba among others were present at the airport when Jalal's body arrived in Bangladesh on 5 December 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2898071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2898071", "title": "John Belchier", "text": "John Belchier\n\nJohn Belchier (1706 – 6 February 1785) was a British surgeon at Guy's Hospital from 1736 to 1768. He discovered at about the time of his Guy's appointment that the vegetable dye madder stained newly forming bone tissue, opening up the study of the growth and development of the skeleton, which was taken forward by\nHenri-Louis Duhamel du Monceau and John Hunter.\n\nBelchier was awarded the Copley Medal by the Royal Society in 1737. He was a founding governor for the Foundling Hospital, a charity created by Royal Charter in 1739, and was a member of the Court of Assistants at the Company of Surgeons from 1751 to 1785.\n\n"}
{"id": "4225483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4225483", "title": "Kosmos 110", "text": "Kosmos 110\n\nKosmos 110 ( meaning Cosmos 110) was a Soviet spacecraft launched on 22 February 1966 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome aboard a Voskhod rocket. It carried two dogs, Veterok and Ugolyok.\n\nIt incorporated a re-entry body (capsule) for landing scientific instruments and test objects. It was a biological satellite that made a sustained biomedical experiment through the Van Allen radiation belts with the dogs Veterok and Ugolyok. On March 16, after 22 days in orbit around the Earth, they were safely landed.\n\nThis spaceflight of record-breaking duration was not surpassed by humans until Soyuz 11 in June 1971, and still stands as the longest space flight by dogs.\n\nOther Names\n\n"}
{"id": "4459395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459395", "title": "Laurentius Abstemius", "text": "Laurentius Abstemius\n\nLaurentius Abstemius (c.1440-1508) was an Italian writer and professor of philology, born at Macerata in Ancona. His learned name plays on his family name of Bevilaqua (Drinkwater), and he was also known by the Italian name Lorenzo Astemio. A Neo-Latin writer of considerable talents at the time of the Humanist revival of letters, his first published works appeared in the 1470s and were distinguished by minute scholarship. During that decade he moved to Urbino and became ducal librarian, although he was to move between there and other parts of Italy thereafter as a teacher.\n\nThe work for which he is principally remembered now is \"Hecatomythium\" (1495), a collection of a hundred fables written in Latin and largely of his own invention. However, the inclusion together with this work of the thirty-three Aesopic fables translated from the Greek by Lorenzo Valla gave the impression that his own work was of the same kind. Several of the fables of Abstemius, it is true, relate to Aesop's in various ways, either as variations on his, as in the case of \"De culice cibum et hospitium ab appetente\" (94), which is told of a gnat and a bee but relates to The Ant and the Grasshopper; or in the case of \"De leone et mure\" (52) it provides a sequel to The Lion and the Mouse, in which the mouse asks for the lion's daughter as a reward for freeing him from the net and is stepped on accidentally by the bride.\n\nStill other fables, in the Aesopic manner, provide a frame for proverbs: for example 'Still waters run deep' (\"De rustico amnem transituro\", 5) and 'The worse the wheel, the more it creaks' (\"De auriga et rota currus stridente\", 84). But some quarter of Abstemius' stories belong to the genre of comic anecdotes associated with Poggio Bracciolini and known as \"Facetiae\". One at least, \"De vidua virum petente\" (the widow seeking a husband, 31), borrows directly from the collection of Poggio. A few of these sorts of fable particularly were condemned as ludicrous and licentiously critical of the clergy and the work was added to the Vatican index of forbidden books. Abstemius later wrote a further 97 fables in a less extreme vein, \"Hecatomythium Secundum\", published in Venice in 1499.\n\nThe fables of Abstemius were frequently reprinted in their own right, as well as added to other collections of Aesopic material, during the 16th century. In particular they can be found annexed to an edition of Aesop's Fables, published in eight volumes at Frankfurt in 1580, and were later translated very idiomatically by Roger L'Estrange in his \"Fables of Aesop and Other Eminent Mythologists\" (1692). Translated into French as \"Hécatomythium ou les fables de Laurent Abstemius traduit du latin\" (Orléans, 1572), they were the source for several in the later books of La Fontaine's Fables, including \"The Vultures and the Pigeons” (VII.8), “Death and the Dying Man” (VIII.1) and “The Women and the Secret” (VIII.6).\n\n"}
{"id": "37854420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37854420", "title": "List of Brands Hatch Circuit fatal accidents", "text": "List of Brands Hatch Circuit fatal accidents\n\nFatal accidents to competitors at the Brands Hatch Circuit during national and international motor-sport events.\n"}
{"id": "56782535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56782535", "title": "Michiko Kanba", "text": "Michiko Kanba\n\nMichiko Kanba was born in Tokyo. Her father was Toshio Kanba, a sociologist and professor at Chuo University.\n\nKanba was raised in a middle-class Christian household, and entered University of Tokyo in 1957 and joined the Japan Communist Party on November of that year. After that, she became a leader in the New Left organization Bund and participated in mass demonstrations against the revisions of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security Between the United States and Japan.\n\nKanba was one of the 76 student activists who were arrested at a January 26, 1960 sit-in at Haneda Airport. She also participated in protests around the Diet Building. She was killed just inside the South Gate of the National Diet Building after a group of students broke into the gate and clashed with riot police.\n\nAfter her death, Kanba's personal writings and political essays were collected and published under the title \"The Smile Nobody Knows\" (Japanese: 人しれず微笑もん). In her writings, she discusses her life and activism.\n\nKanba's death was widely covered at the time, and is seen as a symbol of the 1960 mass protests against the revised Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security Between the United States and Japan. A political cartoon that ran in the popular journal \"Sekai\" a month after Kanba's death depicted a yakuza gangster lighting a cigarette for a policeman as they both stand over her dead body in front of the National Diet Building. Eiji Oguma has contended that Kanba's death evoked recent memories of the many young people who lost their lives in World War II. Hiroko Hirakawa framed Kanba's posthumous status as a \"maiden martyr\" as reflecting contemporary expectations about middle-class femininity and motherhood. Chelsea Szendi Schieder argues that the global 1960s began in Japan with Kanba's death.\n\nPhotographer Hiroshi Hamaya captured the events of the night Kanba was killed.\n\nAkiko Esashi wrote a biography in Japanese on Kanba in 2010, under the title \"Michiko Kanba: Legend of a Sacred Girl\" (Japanese: 樺美智子ー聖少女伝説).\n"}
{"id": "27042420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27042420", "title": "Monogenēs", "text": "Monogenēs\n\nMonogenes has two primary definitions, \"pertaining to being the only one of its kind within a specific relationship\" and \"pertaining to being the only one of its kind or class, unique in kind\". Thus \"monogenēs\" (μονογενὴς) may be used both as an adjective \"monogenēs pais\", meaning unique and special. Its Greek meaning is often applied to mean \"one of a kind, one and only\". \"Monogenēs\" (μονογενὴς) may be used both as an adjective \"monogenēs pais\", only child, or only legitimate child, special child, and also on its own as a noun; \"o monogenēs\" \"the only one\", or \"the only legitimate child\". \nThe word is used in Hebrews 11:17-19 to describe Isaac, the son of Abraham. However, Isaac was not the only-begotten son of Abraham, but was the chosen, having special virtue.\n\nThe term is notable outside normal Greek usage in two special areas: in the cosmology of Plato and in the Gospel of John. As concerns the use by Plato there is broad academic consensus, generally following the understanding of the philosopher Proclus (412–485 AD).\n\nIn A Greek-English Lexicon of Liddell & Scott the following main definition is given:\n\nA typical example:\nBut note that this example does not necessarily rule out sons by concubines.\n\nThe following examples are taken from the Greek text uses of \"monogenēs\" in the Perseus database.\n\n\nAn exhaustive listing of \"monogenēs\" can be found in the \"Thesaurus Linguae Graecae\" database.\n\nParmenides\nThe reference above found in Liddell Scott, and therefore in other lexicons, and unquestioned in Christian commentaries, to a use of \"monogenes\" by Parmenides has more recently been shown to probably be incorrect. The text of Parmenides 8. 4 is \"unusually corrupt\". Plutarch read the text as \"holomeles\" (οὐλομελές, \"whole-limbed\"). The original reconstruction by H. Diels (1897) left the text open. Later editions of Diels-Kranz defer to Plutarch's reading in the reconstructed Greek text. Others since reconstructed the text as \"monogenes\" (only-begotten) but John R. Wilson (1970) argues that this is inconsistent with context and suggests the text as \"monomeles\" (one-limbed). The inconsistency is accepted by H. Schmitz (1988) but Schmitz proposes instead a return to \"holomeles\" (οὐλομελές, \"whole-limbed\").\n\nPlato's Timaeus speaks twice of a \"monogenes\" Heaven:\n\n\nThe subject is the creation, or begetting, of heaven (\"ouranos\") as a unique birth, not the birth of more than one cosmos. Comparison is also made with the begetting of animals and birds from the souls of \"light-minded men\".\n\nIn commentary on Plato Proclus considers that if a visible god like the \"ouranos\" is to resemble higher invisible gods, then the visible cosmos must be \"monogenes\".\n\nThe word occurs five times in the Septuagint:\n\nPsalm 22:20, 35:17 and Wisdom 7:22 appear to be personifications of the soul (in Hebrew a masculine noun) and wisdom (feminine noun) as an \"only son\" and \"only daughter\" respectively.\n\nThere is an increase in the use of \"monogenes\" in later versions of the Septuagint. Gen 22:2 \"the beloved one whom you have loved\" (\"ton agapeton, on egapesas\") in Aquila's Greek translation uses \"monogenēs\" to translate \"yachid\", the common Hebrew word for \"only\".\n\nThe New Testament contains 9 uses, all adjectival:\n\n\n\nPlatonic usage also impacted Christian usage, for example in Gnosticism. In Tertullian's \"Against the Valentinians\", he gives the name to one of their thirty aeons as \"monogenes\" in a syzygy with \"makaria\", Blessedness.\n\nSimilar content is found in:\nThe problem with magical inscriptions, on papyri, walls or ostraca, is firstly dating the source, secondly that magical spells by their nature tend to be syncretic. In the example above lovestruck Capitolina summons \"all the divinities\" to release the spirits of \"all who drowned in the Nile, the unmarried dead\" etc. to sway the heart of her young man, yet she may not have known enough about Judaism or Christianity, or even Gnostic Christianity, to know whether \"YAHWEH SABAOTH\" and \"the Only-Begotten\" were the same god or not.\n\n\nSome aspects of the meaning, or range of meanings, of \"monogenēs\" in the New Testament are disputed. Lexicons of the New Testament both reflect and determine debate:\n\nThe entrance of \"only begotten\" into the English Bible was not directly from \"mono-genes\" but from the Latin of the Vulgate, which had \"uni-genitus\" (one-begotten):\n\nThe meaning of \"monogenēs\" was part of early Christian christological controversy regarding the Trinity. It is claimed that Arian arguments that used texts that refer to Christ as God's \"only begotten Son\" are based on a misunderstanding of the Greek word \"monogenēs\" and that the Greek word does not mean \"begotten\" in the sense we beget children but means \"having no peer, unique\".\n\nAlternatively in favour that the word \"monogenēs\" does carry some meaning related to begetting is the etymological origin \"mono-\" (only) + \"-genes\" (born, begotten). The question is whether the etymological origin was still \"live\" as part of the meaning when the New Testament was written, or whether semantic shift has occurred. Limiting the semantic change of \"monogenes\" is that the normal word \"monos\" is still the default word in New Testament times, and that the terms co-exist in Greek, Latin and English:\n\nAlso there is a question about how separate from the idea of \"-genes\" birth and begetting the cited uses of \"monogenes\" in the sense of \"unique\" truly are. For example, the ending \"-genes\" is arguably not redundant even in the sense of \"only\" as per when Clement of Rome (96 AD), and later Origen, Cyril and others, employ \"monogenes\" to describe the rebirth of the phoenix. At issue is whether Clement is merely stressing \"monos\" unique, or using \"monogenes\" to indicate unique in its method of rebirth, or possibly that there is only one single bird born and reborn. Likewise in Plato's Timaeus, the \"only-begotten and created Heaven\", is still unique in how it is begotten, in comparison to the begetting of animals and men, just as Earth and Heaven give birth to Ocean and Tethys. Of the Liddell Scott references for \"unique\" (\"monogenes\" being used purely as \"monos\") that leaves only Parmenides, which (as above) is no longer considered a likely reading of the Greek text.\n\nAdditionally the New Testament frame of reference for \"monogenes\" is established by uses of the main verb \"beget\", and readings of complementary verses, for example:\n\nThis issue overlaps with, and is interrelated with, the question of begetting above. Interpretation of the uniqueness of \"monogenes\" in New Testament usage partly depends on understanding of Hellenistic Jewish ideas about inheritance. Philo stated: \n\nIn his 1894 translation of Philo Charles Duke Yonge rendered \"loved-and-only son\" (\"agapetos kai monos uios\") as \"only legitimate son\", which is not unreasonable given Philo's parallel comments in On Sacrifice X.43. It also parallels Josephus' use (see above 20:20) for a legitimate son of the main royal wife.\n\nLikewise in the later Jewish Septuagint revisions:\n\nIn contrast in Proverbs 4:3 Aquila, Symmachus and Theodotion all have \"monogenes\" of a mother's only-begotten son where legitimacy is not an issue.\n\nIn textual criticism opinions are divided on whether Jesus is referred to as \"only-begotten God\" or \"only-begotten Son\", in John 1:18.\nThis textual issue is complicated by the scribal abbreviations of nomina sacra where \"G-d\" and \"S-n\" are abbreviated in the Greek manuscripts by ΘΣ and ΥΣ (theta-sigma vs upsilon-sigma) increasing the likelihood of scribal error.\n"}
{"id": "1875251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875251", "title": "Monster Rancher (video game)", "text": "Monster Rancher (video game)\n\nMonster Rancher, known in Japan as , is a console game released in North America on November 30, 1997, for the PlayStation system. It is the first game in Tecmo's \"Monster Rancher\" series, featuring the raising, fighting, and breeding of monsters.\n\nAlthough it is possible to acquire a monster in-game, the series is known for the ability to acquire new monsters using Compact Discs (CDs). Players can use any readable CD, and the game creates a monster using the CD's metadata. Certain CDs would result in unique monsters: for example, some Christmas music albums will give the player a monster of type \"Santa\". Once the player has two or more monsters in reserve, they can be combined, creating a new monster with traits of both 'parents.'\n\nOnce the player has a monster, it can then be raised to be a fighting machine. There are six stats that determine how the monster does in battle: Power fuels physical attacks, Intelligence fuels and defends against energy attacks, Life determines monster's hit points, Skill affects accuracy, Speed helps evade opponents' attacks, and Defense reduces damage received from physical attacks. Monsters train either by doing chores nearby, or can be sent to be trained by experts, where they have the chance to gain new attack techniques. It is possible to increase some of the monster's stats with food or vitamins, but vitamins comes at a price of decreasing one stat as well as shorting the life span dramatically. \n\nCurrency can be used to purchase items in the game, earned by winning monster fighting tournaments. The game can end if the player runs out of currency to manage the monster.\nThe primary way to advance through the game is through monster fighting tournaments. While in battle, each monster has attacks available to it, some moves are only available at close range, others from a distance. Players cannot control the monster directly in a fight, but can call for their monster to stay away or close in, and attack with whichever move is available at the current range.\n\nIn \"Monster Rancher 2\" and \"Monster Rancher Advance 2\", Holly, the assistant from this game, cameos as a rancher from the group, AGIMA, for whom the player trains monsters.\n\nThe game received \"favorable\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "7655424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7655424", "title": "Mrs Chippy", "text": "Mrs Chippy\n\nMrs Chippy was a cat (actually male) who accompanied Sir Ernest Shackleton's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition of 1914–1917.\n\nMrs Chippy, a tiger-striped tabby, was taken on board the expedition's ship \"Endurance\" as a ship's cat by carpenter and master shipwright Harry \"Chippy\" McNish (\"Chippy\" being a colloquial British term for a carpenter). The cat acquired its name because, once aboard, it followed McNish around like an overly-attentive wife.\n\nOne month after the ship set sail for Antarctica it was discovered that, despite \"her\" name, Mrs Chippy was actually a male. By that time, however, the name had stuck. He was described as \"full of character\" by members of the expedition and impressed the crew with his ability to walk along the ship's inch-wide rails in even the roughest seas. In Captain Frank Worsley’s diary he describes Mrs Chippy climbing the rigging \"… exactly after the manner of a seaman going aloft\".\n\nMrs Chippy’s voyage was not without incident. Storekeeper Thomas Orde-Lees, in a diary entry dated 13 September 1914, relates that \"An extraordinary thing happened during the night. The tabby cat jumped overboard through one of the cabin portholes and the officer on watch, Lt. Hudson, heard her screams and turned the ship smartly round & picked her up. She must have been in the water 10 minutes or more\". The cat was retrieved by the ship’s biologist, Robert Clark, using one of his sample nets.\n\nAfter the ship became trapped in pack ice and was destroyed, Shackleton decided that Mrs Chippy, and five of the sled dogs that had been carried on board, would not survive. In a diary entry dated 29 October 1915 he recorded:\n\nMcNish was very attached to Mrs Chippy and never forgave Shackleton for having him killed. He died, destitute, in Wellington, New Zealand, in September 1930, and was buried with full naval honours in an unmarked grave. The New Zealand Antarctic Society placed a headstone on the grave in 1959. To this they added a life-size bronze statue of Mrs Chippy in 2004, funded through public subscription, to complete a tribute and memorial to the carpenter and his much loved cat.\nIn February 2011 Mrs Chippy was featured on a postage stamp issued by the South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nA novel by Caroline Alexander, \"Mrs. Chippy's Last Expedition : The Remarkable Journal of Shackleton's Polar-Bound Cat\", was published by Bloomsbury in 1997. The book provides an account of Shackleton's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition, covering the period 15 January 1914 to 29 October 1915, in the form of a journal written from a cat’s point of view, supposedly by Mrs Chippy. The final entry recounts Shackleton instructing his crew, now camped on the ice pack following the destruction of their ship, that to ensure their survival \"Anything that cannot pull its weight or is not useful to the Expedition must be put down\". The book ends poignantly with Mrs Chippy (clearly unaware of the implications of Shackleton's order) relaxing in a tent, reminiscing over past adventures and, after being given a treat of a bowl of sardines, looking forward to assisting with the rest of the expedition.\n\nMrs Chippy was portrayed in the 2002 Channel 4 mini-series \"Shackleton\", starring Kenneth Branagh, with the credits stating that the part was played by 'Mac'.\nThe painting \"Mrs Chippy\" by Wolf Howard shows the cat \"about to be shot\", while in the background \"Endurance\" is depicted trapped in the ice and its crew can be seen launching a small open boat on a rescue mission. The painting was shown in \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\" exhibition at the Walker Art Gallery during the 2004 Liverpool Biennial.\n\nAn opera for primary school children, \"Shackleton's Cat\" by Russell Hepplewhite, was commissioned by the English Touring Opera in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "6128122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6128122", "title": "Oak Investment Partners", "text": "Oak Investment Partners\n\nOak Investment Partners is a private equity firm focusing on venture capital investments in companies developing communications systems, information technology, new Internet media, healthcare services and retail.\n\nThe firm, founded in 1978, is based in Greenwich, Connecticut with offices in Norwalk, Connecticut, Minneapolis and Palo Alto, California. Since inception, Oak had invested in more than 480 companies and had raised more than $8.4 billion in investor commitments across 12 private equity funds.\n\nIn May 2006, Oak raised its 12th fund, at $2.56 billion reportedly the largest venture capital fund ever raised.\n\nIn 2015, Indian-born employee Iftikar Ahmed was sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on suspicion of stealing US$65 million from the firm. Ahmed was believed to have fled to India. In August 2015, Fortune reported that Mr. Ahmed had been detained in an Indian prison from May 22 until July 23 and that his passport had been confiscated.\n\nOak invests across a range of stages: funding startup companies, funding spinouts of existing divisions and assets, and providing growth capital to later-stage companies. Oak also selectively invests in public companies through PIPE investments.\n\nIn December 2008, Oak invested $25 million in the online media outlet Huffington Post.\n\nOther notable Oak investments include eVoice, Dick's Sporting Goods, P.F. Chang's China Bistro, Office Depot, Petsmart, Polycom, nLIGHT, Sandisk, and Seagate, Tikona Infinet Limited.\n\n"}
{"id": "13136779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13136779", "title": "Ramón Arnaud", "text": "Ramón Arnaud\n\nCaptain Ramón Arnaud Vignon (1877–1915) was an officer in the Mexican Army and the last Mexican governor of Clipperton Island.\n\nRamón Arnaud was born in Orizaba, Veracruz, in 1879, to Ángel Arnaud and Carlota Vignon, Mexicans of French origin who had settled in Veracruz in the aftermath of the 1862–1867 French Intervention. He completed his primary education in Orizaba and, influenced by a friend of his, the son of General Bernardo Reyes, decided to enlist in the Army. He was unable to secure entry to the Military Academy in Mexico City but, assisted by the influence of General Reyes, enrolled as a sergeant in the 7th Cavalry Regiment. Shortly after enlisting, however, he deserted; he was promptly tracked down, arrested, sent to the military prison in Tlatelolco for 5½ months, and demoted to a private in the 23rd Infantry Battalion. In the space of three years, however, he had regained his earlier rank after fighting against Maya insurgents in the Caste War of Yucatán. Shortly after that, he was posted to Japan in the company of Col. Abelardo Ávalos.\n\nUpon his return from the East Asia, the government of President Porfirio Díaz placed him in charge of the military garrison on Clipperton Island, an atoll in the Pacific subject to a sovereignty dispute between Mexico and France. At first he was reluctant, believing that this amounted to an exile from Mexico, but Col. Ávalos convinced him by telling him that President Díaz had personally chosen him to protect Mexico's interests in the international conflict with France, and that the fact that he spoke English, French, and Spanish would assist him in protecting Mexico's sovereignty over the territory. He consequently accepted and arrived on Clipperton as governor in 1906. \n\nBy 1914, the situation on the island had turned difficult. With the outbreak of the Mexican Revolution and the overthrow of Victoriano Huerta, the Mexican supply ship that sailed between Clipperton and Acapulco had stopped coming. An American ship arrived, bringing provisions and rescuing a German, Gustav Schultz (the representative of the company which mined guano on Clipperton Island), who had lost his mind. The Americans also impressed upon Arnaud the seriousness of the problems which confronted Mexico (including the American occupation of Veracruz) and informed him of the outbreak of the First World War, advising him to abandon the island. Nevertheless, the captain and the rest of the soldiers decided to remain, staying faithful to their duty even though their homeland had forgotten them.\n\nIn 1915, an outbreak of scurvy claimed many of the colonists' lives and in 1915, by now desperate and at the head of a colony that had no food, Arnaud set sail with three soldiers in a canoe in pursuit of a passing ship they had spied. They were unable to reach the ship, however, and the canoe sank while returning, drowning all four of its occupants.\n\n"}
{"id": "6647602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6647602", "title": "Rejuvenation Research", "text": "Rejuvenation Research\n\nRejuvenation Research is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Mary Ann Liebert that covers research on rejuvenation and biogerontology. The journal was established in 1998 and the editor-in-chief is Aubrey de Grey. It is the official journal of the European Society of Preventive, Regenerative and Anti-Aging Medicine as well as PYRAMED: World Federation and World Institute of Preventive & Regenerative Medicine.\n\nThe journal was established in 1998 as the \"Journal of Anti-Aging Medicine\" with Michael Fossel (Michigan State University) as editor-in-chief. It obtained its current title in 2004, when Aubrey de Grey took over as editor-in-chief.\n\nThe journal publishes the abstracts of the biennial conferences of the SENS Research Foundation.\n\n\"Rejuvenation Research\" is abstracted and indexed in:\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 3.220.\n\n"}
{"id": "47672495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47672495", "title": "Ruth Sivard", "text": "Ruth Sivard\n\nRuth Leger Sivard (November 25, 1915 – August 21, 2015) was an American economist. She worked at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency from 1961 to 1971, drawing attention to excessive military budgets by compiling data on international defense spending.\n\nRuth Lucille Leger was born in Elmhurst, Queens, to George and Susan (née Zieten) Leger on November 25, 1915. She attended Flushing High School, then earned a sociology degree from Smith College in 1937. Sivard obtained a master's degree in economics at New York University.\n\nSivard worked with several federal agencies and non-governmental organizations before joining the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (ACDA) in 1961. She became the leader of ACDA's economic department three years later and began comparing military budgets to social statistics and other budgets in annual reports, including information on social indicators like infant mortality. Melvin Laird, Secretary of Defense, derided the reports as \"misleading\" and the agency was ordered by the Nixon administration to cease publishing the analyses in 1970.\n\nSivard left ACDA in 1971, and founded her own non-profit group, World Priorities. The organization, backed by the Carnegie Corporation, Ford Foundation, and Rockefeller Foundation, among others, published sixteen editions of \"World Military and Social Expenditures\" from 1974 to 1996. The government published its own annual report, \"World Military Expenditures and Arms Transfers\", which did not make the comparison to social spending. Sivard reported in 1986 that the White House was one of the best customers for her report.\n\nThis set of work continued to focus on the steady increase in defense spending in spite of other, more serious problems also needing attention, such as worldwide poverty, famine, illiteracy, and unemployment.\n\nShe was married to high school classmate Robert Sivard (1914–1990), the former art director of the United States Information Agency, with whom she had two children. She died of dementia in Washington, D.C. on August 21, 2015, aged 99.\n\n"}
{"id": "726770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=726770", "title": "Steven Lang (comics)", "text": "Steven Lang (comics)\n\nSteven Lang (sometimes spelled Stephen Lang) is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is a manufacturer of the mutant-hunting robots called Sentinels. He first appeared in \"X-Men\" #96.\n\nDr. Steven Lang is a pioneer in the field of robotics and genetic mutation who hates mutants. An employee of the U.S. government, he is placed in charge of a federal investigation into the origin of genetic mutation. He plans to use his talents to create an army of mutant hunting robots to kill all mutants. To this end he seeks to get the government to endorse and financially support his operations. Lang begins by targeting mutant criminals such as Mesmero. He is backed by Ned Buckman and the \"Council of the Chosen,\" the secret group in control of the New York Branch of the Hellfire Club prior to Sebastian Shaw's takeover.\n\nTo defeat his main targets, the X-Men, Lang creates the \"X-Sentinels,\" android doubles of Professor X and the original X-Men. However, the X-Sentinels manage only inferior imitations of the X-Men's powers, and are easily defeated by the new X-Men. Jean Grey then telekinetically forces Lang to crash his mini-gunship into a wall-screen. He is left in a coma with severe brain damage. During this time, Lang's brain is used as a template for the minds of two sentinels, Conscience and a new Master Mold, both of whom are destroyed in an attempt to release a virus which would have killed all mutants and roughly 97% of normal humans on Earth.\n\nYears later, Lang returns as a member of the Phalanx, a group of humans who had been transformed into techno-organic human-alien hybrids. The transformation process restores Lang's mind, and he becomes their leader. Lang is the only one of the Phalanx to retain his individual human identity, possibly due to the brain damage; when his true nature is revealed, he was dragged to his apparent death by his lieutenant, Cameron Hodge.\n\nLang's corpse is exhumed by the Purifiers and reanimated by Bastion using a Technarch. He joins a group formed by the foremost anti-mutant leaders under Bastion's control. During the \"\" storyline, Steven Lang, alongside Graydon Creed, is killed by Hope Summers.\n\nAs a normal human being Stephen Lang had no superhuman powers. However, he was a genius and pioneer in the field of robotics, with adequate financial resources to fund his operations. \n\nAs a member of the Phalanx he had all of the characteristics of a techno-organic life form: enhanced strength, durability, and agility, ability to re-shape corporeal form at will, and to infect other beings with the techno-organic virus and control infected beings.\n"}
{"id": "232816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232816", "title": "Telly Monster", "text": "Telly Monster\n\nTelly Monster, known usually as just Telly, is an eternally worrying, fuchsia monster Muppet on \"Sesame Street\". He is puppeteered by Martin P. Robinson.\n\nOn his debut in 1979, he was known as the \"Television Monster\", a character that was fixated on television. His name is derived from the British slang term for a television, \"telly\". Initially the character had antennae standing out of the top of his head, and his eyes would whirl around when he watched television. \n\nIn Telly's first \"Sesame Street\" appearance, when he was performed by Bob Payne, a T.V. obsessed Telly, enters Hooper's store, where he nervously asks Mr. Hooper to plug in the T.V. using his outlet. Suddenly, Telly runs out of the store, leaving Mr. Hooper nervous. David then enters the store, and Mr. Hooper tells him about how he let Telly use his outlet. Mr. Hooper and David together, decide to follow the orange cord outside where they find a disturbed Telly occupied by his T.V. However, when Telly simply replies \"I'm glued\", David comes up with the idea to ask him if he was moving into the neighborhood. Telly tells David that he had already moved in, and also when Mr. Hooper asks Telly if he was going to live right on the street, Telly said that he was right with his T.V. set not needing anything else. Mr. Hooper, Telly and David finally decide to settle things by getting to know each other, and after introducing himself, Telly turns around from his set looking at David and Mr. Hooper with his whirly, red eyes. Afterwards, both Mr. Hooper and David become puzzled with Telly's strange name.\n\nAfter Telly Monster’s stint through season eleven, producers worried that the character would be a negative influence on their easily influenced viewers, and changed him into the worry-wart character that he has been ever since.\n\nTelly Monster’s first appearance on \"Sesame Street\", after the “Television Monster” season, was with guest star Itzhak Perlman playing the violin, while Telly played the tuba.\n\nTelly is a triangle lover, and he has a pet hamster, Chuckie Sue. He has been known to pogo stick uncontrollably around Sesame Street, often causing havoc with all that gets in his way. This segment is shown on \"Sesame Street Unpaved\". Baby Bear is his best friend and appears occasionally in many of the main plots in the later series. Telly also has something of a friendship with Oscar the Grouch, since they appear in many segments together.\n\nPersonality-wise, Telly is a fidgeting, nervous wreck, prone easily to manic behavior and paranoia.\n\nIn contrast to Kermit the Frog as a news reporter for the \"Sesame Street News Flash\", Telly also has been a roving reporter for his own segment, called \"Monster on the Spot\".\nIn the 1998 special \"Elmopalooza\", after Jon Stewart, Prairie Dawn and the crew are stuck in the dressing room, Telly reacts that if they can't get out, there is no show, which makes the people sad and not go to work tomorrow, which also leads to the economy collapsing, making the United States being doomed.\n"}
{"id": "897595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897595", "title": "Theological noncognitivism", "text": "Theological noncognitivism\n\nTheological noncognitivism is the position that religious language – specifically, words such as \"God\" – are not cognitively meaningful. It is sometimes considered synonymous with ignosticism.\n\nTheological noncognitivists argue in different ways, depending on what one considers the \"theory of meaning\" to be.\n\nOne argument holds to the claim that definitions of God are irreducible, self-instituting relational, circular. For example, a sentence stating that \"God is He who created everything, apart from Himself\", is seen as circular rather than an irreducible truth.\n\nMichael Martin writing from a verificationist perspective concludes that religious language is meaningless because it is not verifiable.\n\nGeorge H. Smith uses an attribute-based approach in an attempt to prove that there is no concept for God: he argues that there are no meaningful attributes, only negatively defined or relational attributes, making the term meaningless.\n\nAn example: Consider the proposition of the existence of a \"pink unicorn\". When asserting the proposition, one can use attributes to at least describe the concept such a cohesive idea is transferred in language. With no knowledge of \"pink unicorn\", it can be described minimally with the attributes \"pink\", \"horse\", and \"horn\". Only then can the proposition be accepted or rejected. The acceptance or rejection of the proposition is distinct from the concept.\n\nIt is asserted by Steven J. Conifer that to be a positive atheist, one who not only lacks a belief in gods but who furthermore denies that gods exist, is to give credence to the existence of a concept of something for God to refer to, because it assumes that there is something understandable to \"not\" believe in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5451657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5451657", "title": "Therianthropy", "text": "Therianthropy\n\nTherianthropy is the mythological ability of human beings to metamorphose into other animals by means of shapeshifting. It is possible that cave drawings found at Les Trois Frères, in France, depict ancient beliefs in the concept. The most well known form of therianthropy is found in stories concerning werewolves.\n\nThe term \"therianthropy\" comes from the Greek \"theríon\" [θηρίον], meaning \"wild animal\" or \"beast\" (implicitly mammalian); and \"anthrōpos\" [ἄνθρωπος], meaning \"human being\". It was used to refer to animal transformation folklore of Europe as early as 1901. Sometimes the term \"zoanthropy\" is used instead. Therianthropy was used to describe spiritual beliefs in animal transformation in a 1915 Japanese publication, \"A History of the Japanese People from the Earliest Times to the End of the Meiji Era\". One source, \"The Human Predator\", raises the possibility the term may have been used as early as the 16th century in criminal trials of suspected werewolves.\n\nTherianthropy refers to the fantastical, or mythological, ability of some humans to change into animals. Therianthropes are said to change forms via shapeshifting. Therianthropy has long existed in mythology, and seems to be depicted in ancient cave drawings such as \"The Sorcerer\", a pictograph executed at the Palaeolithic cave drawings found in the Pyrénées at the Les Trois Frères, France, archeological site.\n\n'Theriocephaly' (Gr. \"animal headedness\") refers to beings which have an animal head attached to an anthropomorphic, or human, body; for example, the animal-headed forms of gods depicted in ancient Egyptian religion (such as Ra, Sobek, Anubis).\n\n\"Shapeshifting\" in folklore, mythology and anthropology generally refers to the alteration of physical appearance from that of a human to that of another species. Lycanthropy, the transformation of a human into a wolf (or \"werewolf\"), is probably the best known form of therianthropy, followed by cynanthropy (transformation into a dog) and \"ailuranthropy\" (transformation into a cat). Werehyenas are present in the stories of several African and Eurasian cultures. Ancient Turkic legends from Asia talk of form-changing shamans known as \"kurtadams\", which translates to \"wolfman\". Ancient Greeks wrote of \"kynanthropy\", from κύων \"kyōn\" (or \"dog\"), which applied to mythological beings able to alternate between dog form and human form, or who possessed combined dog and human anatomical features.\n\nThe term existed by at least 1901, when it was applied to stories from China about humans turning into dogs, dogs becoming people, and sexual relations between humans and canines. Anthropologist David Gordon White called Central Asia the \"vortex of cynanthropy\" because races of dog-men were habitually placed there by ancient writers. The weredog or cynanthrope is also known in Timor. It is described as a human-canine shapeshifter who is capable of transforming other people into animals, even against their will.\n\nEuropean folklore features werecats, who can transform into panthers or domestic cats of an enlarged size. African legends describe people who turn into lions or leopards, while Asian werecats are typically depicted as becoming tigers.\n\nSome Native American and First Nation legends talk about skin-walkers—people with the supernatural ability to turn into any animal they desire. To do so, however, they first must be wearing a pelt of the specific animal. In the folk religion of Mesoamerica, a \"nagual\" (or \"nahual\") is a human being who has the power to magically turn themselves into animal forms—most commonly donkeys, turkeys, and dogs—but can also transform into more powerful jaguars and pumas.\n\nStories of humans descending from animals are found in the oral traditions for many tribal and clan origins. Sometimes the original animals had assumed human form in order to ensure their descendants retained their human shapes; other times the origin story is of a human marrying a normal animal.\n\nNorth American indigenous traditions mingle the ideas of bear ancestors and ursine shapeshifters, with bears often being able to shed their skins to assume human form, marrying human women in this guise. The offspring may be creatures with combined anatomy, they may be very beautiful children with uncanny strength, or they may be shapeshifters themselves.\n\nP'an Hu is represented in various Chinese legends as a supernatural dog, a dog-headed man, or a canine shapeshifter that married an emperor's daughter and founded at least one race. When he is depicted as a shapeshifter, all of him can become human except for his head. The race(s) descended from P'an Hu were often characterized by Chinese writers as monsters who combined human and dog anatomy.\n\nIn Turkic mythology, the wolf is a revered animal. The Turkic legends say the people were descendants of wolves. The legend of Asena is an old Turkic myth that tells of how the Turkic people were created. In the legend, a small Turkic village in northern China is raided by Chinese soldiers, with one baby left behind. An old she-wolf with a sky-blue mane named Asena finds the baby and nurses him. She later gives birth to half-wolf, half-human cubs who are the ancestors of the Turkic people.\n\nEthnologist Ivar Lissner theorised that cave paintings of beings with human and non-human animal features were not physical representations of mythical shapeshifters, but were instead attempts to depict shamans in the process of acquiring the mental and spiritual attributes of various beasts. Religious historian Mircea Eliade has observed that beliefs regarding animal identity and transformation into animals are widespread.\n\nIn Melanesia there is a belief in the \"tamaniu\" or \"atai\", which is an animal counterpart to a person. It may be an eel, a shark, a lizard, or some other creature. This creature is corporeal, can understand human speech, and shares the same soul as its master, leading to legends which have many characteristics typical of shapeshifter tales, such as any death or injury affecting both forms at once.\n\nAmong a sampled set of psychiatric patients, the belief of being part animal, or \"clinical lycanthropy\", is generally associated with severe psychosis, but not always with any specific psychiatric diagnosis or neurological findings. Others regard clinical lycanthropy as a delusion in the sense of the self-identity disorder found in affective and schizophrenic disorders, or as a symptom of other psychiatric disorders.\n\nTherians are individuals who believe or feel that they are non-human animals in a spiritual sense. There are also others who claim to have a psychological or neuro-biological connection—rather than a spiritual one—to their creature of identification. Both often use the term \"species dysphoria\" to describe their feelings of disconnect from their human bodies and their underlying desire to live as their stated creature.\n\nThe therian and vampire subcultures are related to the otherkin community, and are considered part of it by most otherkin, but are culturally and historically distinct movements of their own, despite some overlap in membership.\n"}
{"id": "52974301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52974301", "title": "Trans-Golgi network vesicle protein 23 A", "text": "Trans-Golgi network vesicle protein 23 A\n\nTrans-Golgi network vesicle protein 23 A (TVP23A) is a protein coded for the TVP23A gene, formally known as FAM18A. TVP23A is located on chromosome 16. It is known to have human paralogs, TVP23B and TVP23C, as well as orthologs in many different species, notably yeast, mice, and chickens. The general consensus on the TVP23A protein indicate that it has some function in the late Golgi apparatus and is involved in retrograde transport from endosomes back into the Golgi apparatus. The nature of this transport is still unknown.\n\nTVP23A is located at cytogenic band 16p13.13, on the negative strand of Chromosome 16.\nTVP23A stands for Trans-Golgi network Vesicle Protein 23A TVP23A, is the current name for the protein. Aliases of TVP23A include FAM18A, and rarely YDR084C.\n\nThere are two known isoforms of TVP23A, variant one and variant two, with variant one being the more common variant in humans.\n\nTVP23A is a member of the pfam superfamily containing the domain of unknown function 846 (DUF846). TVP23A has a predicted molecular weight of 24.1 kilodaltons, an isoelectric point of 6.5, and relatively high amounts of tryptophan and phenylalanine. The secondary structure of TVP23A consists primarily of alpha helices composing 4 transmembrane domains. There is not much information on the tertiary structure of TVP23A or its homologs. iTASSER was used to generate a prediction for the folding pattern of TVP23A, which supports the presence of multiple helix structures.\nTVP23A is ubiquitously expressed in all human tissues. There is evidence of higher expression in the brain tissue of mice. The promoter for TVP23A is GXP_91266, spanning 1403 base pairs located on the negative strand of chromosome 16.\n\nThe hypothesized function of TVP23A is a transmembrane protein involved in retrograde transport of vesicles from early endosomes into the late Golgi apparatus. TVP23A interactions with SNARE TVI1 were found to be required for retrograde transport.\nTVP23A has been found to interact with four different proteins via Yeast two hybrid arrays. Two of these proteins, YIPF1 and YIPF2, are believed to be Golgi transport proteins.\n\nTVP23A is a DUF846 containing protein, which is homologous throughout TVP-type proteins. This domain contains the 4 transmembrane domains of TVP23A\n\nTVP23A has two paralogs, TVP23B and TVP23C. TVP23B and TVP23C are 96% similar to each other, and both are located on chromosome 17. Due to the locations of these three genes, and their identities to each other, it is probable that ancestral TVP23 underwent duplication and translocation, giving rise to TVP23A on chromosome 16 and TVP23B/C on chromosome 17, which then underwent a second duplication to form TVP23B and TVP23C.\nTVP23A has been found in all multicellular eukaryotes, including fungi. This gene has not been found in bacteria.\n"}
{"id": "2630854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2630854", "title": "USS Albany (1846)", "text": "USS Albany (1846)\n\nUSS \"Albany\", the first United States Navy ship of that name, was built in the 1840s for the US Navy. The ship was among the last of the wooden sloops powered by sail and saw extensive service in the Mexican War. Before and after her combat service, \"Albany\" conducted surveillance and observation missions throughout the Caribbean. In September 1854, during a journey along the coast of Venezuela, \"Albany\" was lost with all hands on 28 or 29 September 1854. Included among the 250 men lost were several sons and grandsons of politically prominent men.\n\n\"Albany\" was one of a group of eight full-rigged, three-masted wooden sloops built in the early 1840s that were the last American sailing sloops to be commissioned. The ship measured long between perpendiculars and she had a beam of . \"Albany\" had a draft of and had a tonnage of 1042 tons burthen. The ship had a crew of 210 officers and enlisted men. She could maintain a speed of . \"Albany\" could mount up to four shell guns and eighteen cannon. By 1853, she was armed with six 8-inch guns and sixteen 32-pounder cannon.\n\nThe ship's keel was laid down in 1843 at the New York Navy Yard; she was launched on 27 June 1846, and commissioned on 6 November, with Captain Samuel Livingston Breese in command. Her construction was accelerated so she would be complete for the impending war with Mexico. Although she could carry 22 guns, \"Albany\" sailed with only 20.\n\nThe sloop put to sea for her first cruise on 26 November 1846 and joined the Home Squadron—then engaged in operations against Mexican forces—on 8 January 1847 at Anton Lizardo. Soon thereafter, however, she left the Mexican coast for an independent cruise to the vicinity of the Azores. Upon her return to the east coast of Mexico early in March, \"Albany\" guarded the transport anchorage at Isla Verde in preparation for General Winfield Scott's operations against Veracruz. During the 9 March amphibious action, \"Albany\" landed the reserve elements under Brigadier General David E. Twiggs. Because the Mexican leaders chose not to oppose the landings, \"Albany\" saw no combat. Later, on 22 March, the sloop of war sent one of her eight-inch shell guns and its crew ashore to assist in the siege of Veracruz.\n\nAfter Veracruz surrendered on 29 March, \"Albany\" moved to the next objective—Alvarado. The Mexican forces, however, had already abandoned that port; and Lieutenant Charles G. Hunter, commanding , which arrived first, took possession of the town. \"Albany\" soon headed for another target—Tuxpan. She and the other ships of the squadron arrived at the mouth of the Tuxpan River on the morning of 17 April. Capt. Breese—commanding \"Albany\"—then formed his landing party of over 1,500 sailors and marines drawn from all ships in the squadron. They embarked in the barges and the six ships chosen to ascend the river and capture Tuxpan. Although \"Albany\" herself did not participate in the action, Breese and his landing party did. From 18–22 April, Breese's force moved up the river, engaged and captured two artillery batteries, destroyed fortifications and military equipment at Tuxpan, and then retired down the river to rejoin the squadron. When the American warships dispersed to various blockade stations along the eastern coast of Mexico, \"Albany\" and remained off the mouth of the Tuxpan River.\n\nDuring service on the blockade at various other points, \"Albany\" arrived off the mouth of the Tabasco River by 13 June. As in the Tuxpan operation, members of her crew joined an inland expedition. The movement upriver began late in the first dog watch on 14 June. In two days, the American force ascended the river, disembarked the landing force, routed the defenders on the approaches to Tabasco, and captured the town. The Americans remained there until 22 July, when yellow fever and Mexican troops forced the evacuation of the town.\n\nSubsequently, \"Albany\" headed home for repairs. She left the Mexican coast on 11 July and arrived in Hampton Roads, Virginia, on 6 August. From there, she soon moved north to Boston where she completed her repairs on 27 September. On 10 October, the sloop of war put to sea to return to the Gulf of Mexico; she resumed blockade duty along the Mexican coast until March 1848, when she was sent to Venezuela to protect American citizens there during a highly volatile constitutional crisis.\n\nWith the Mexican–American War at an end, \"Albany\" began cruising the Caribbean-West Indies region. That duty lasted until 12 September 1848, when she returned to Norfolk. During the West Indies cruise, however, John McIntosh Kell and three other passed midshipmen refused a direct order they considered demeaning: they had been ordered to light a candle to summon the relief attendant, a task generally assigned to a midshipman, not a \"passed\" midshipman. The commander, Victor M. Randolph, brought them up on charges, of which they were convicted and released from the Navy in November 1849, although all were reinstated a year later.\n\nBetween 15 November 1848 and the latter part of 1853, the sloop made three more extended deployments in the Caribbean-West Indies area as a unit of the Home Squadron. On 12 December 1853, \"Albany\" set sail from Boston, Massachusetts. In May 1854, the commander had filed a report with the Secretary of the Navy James C. Dobbin that the main mast of \"Albany\" was unseaworthy. On 20 May, Victor Randolph, the former commander of \"Albany\" and now commanding officer (\"pro tem\") of the Naval Yard Warrington, reported that an appropriate mast had been identified and was ready for \"Albany\". During the replacement of the main mast, there was also some discussion of the condition of the fore mast. Apparently both were replaced.\n\nInitially, Gerry had instructions to sail to San Juan, Cartagena, and Aspinwall (now Colón, Panama), and \"Albany\" set out on 29 June. By 11 August, instructions ordered Gerry to pass along the coast and to investigate a suspicious ship lurking near Saint Thomas. Additional instructions, sent separately, told Gerry to continue patrolling the Windward Islands and Grand Turk.\n\nInline with its instructions, \"Albany\" arrived in Curacao on 7 September 1854, from La Guaira, Venezuela. She stayed in port for two days, and left on the morning of the 9th for Cartagena in Colombia, in what was then called New Granada. A letter from a Curacao correspondent of 19 September 1854 reported that all the crew were well. The sloop made an imposing appearance moored in the harbor and, upon leaving port, she saluted one of the forts with twenty-one guns, which was answered, and then saluted a Dutch ship, the corvette \"Palloo\" with eleven guns. On 28 September, Commander Gerry sent a report updating his superiors on the cruise, dispatched from Aspinwall. \"Albany\" departed Aspinwall, Colombia on 28–29 September 1854, intending to sail to New York. She was never seen again.\n\nBy the November, reports circulated through coastal cities that there was much \"uneasiness felt in Washington in relation to the sloop-of-war \"Albany\",\" which had not been heard from since 28 September, when she left Aspinwall for New York. By early December, the steamer USS \"Princeton\" had returned from searching for the missing sloop, which had not been seen or heard from on any of the channels frequented by ship traffic of the British West Indies. In late December, a report surfaced that the vessel had arrived at Cartagena safely, but this report was apparently in error, possibly generated by the arrival of the report that Gerry had mailed before leaving Aspinwall at the end of September. By this time, the Navy's steam ships were searching the area for \"Albany\". The steamer USS \"Fulton\" searched from January to May from Cartegena to Aspinwall, the Bay of Darien, into the Bay of Guatemala, and along the Mosquito Coast. By January 1856, after an exhaustive search of 15 months, the ship was given up as lost.\n\nThe Department of the Navy requested an inquiry into the loss, which was passed on to the appropriate Senate Committee. A second craft, , had been lost in a typhoon while conducting an exploratory cruise of the Bonins, the Ladrones, and the Mariana islands. By resolution of the Senate, a fund was provided for the widows and orphans of the officers, mariners, and seamen of both ships. Furthermore, the appropriate wages were paid to the families (including parents, brothers, or sisters) of the men lost, despite the loss of Nixon White (Purser)'s account books. In the case of Rowland Leach, the ship's carpenter, this amounted to $1559, including $779 for a year's gratuitous pay ordered by the Department of the Navy.\n\nAs of 30 June 1854, the crew of \"Albany\" consisted of 18 officers, 156 seaman, and 23 Marines. It is likely the ship's complement was little changed when she was lost three months later. The crew included several sons and grandsons of prominent men: Commander James T. Gerry, youngest son of Elbridge Gerry, formerly Vice President of the United States, Lieutenant John Quincy Adams, grandson of the second president and nephew of the sixth, and Midshipman Bennet Israel Riley, son of Brevet General Bennet C. Riley, the former military governor of California during its statehood controversy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4964392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964392", "title": "Voltinism", "text": "Voltinism\n\nVoltinism is a term used in biology to indicate the number of broods or generations of an organism in a year. The term is most often applied to insects, and is particularly in use in sericulture, where silkworm varieties vary in their voltinism.\n\n\nThe speckled wood butterfly is univoltine in the northern part of its range, e.g. northern Scandinavia. Adults emerge in late spring, mate, and die shortly after laying eggs; their offspring will grow until pupation, enter diapause in anticipation of the winter, and emerge as adults the following year – thus resulting in a single generation of butterflies per year. In southern Scandinavia, the same species is bivoltine – here, the offspring of spring-emerging adults will develop directly into adults during the summer, mate, and die. Their offspring in turn constitute a second generation, which is the generation that will enter winter diapause and emerge as adults (and mate) in the spring of the following year. This results in a pattern of one short-lived generation (c. 2–3 months) that breeds during the summer, and one long-lived generation (ca. 9-10 months) that diapauses through the winter and breeds in the spring. The Rocky Mountain parnassian and the High brown fritillary are more examples of univoltine butterfly species.\n\nThe bee species \"Macrotera portalis\" is bivoltine, and is estimated to have about 2 or 3 broods annually. During winter, individuals remain in diapause, in their pharate or prepupal stage. This diapause stage continues until metamorphosis in the next spring or summer, whereupon the bees emerge as adults. \n\nThe Dawson's burrowing bee is an example of a univoltine insect of the order Hymenoptera. The brood of one winter will remain dormant underground until the following winter, and then will surface from their burrows to mate once, and establish new nests. \nThe term partial voltinism is used to refer to two different (but not necessarily exclusive) situations:\n\nThe number of breeding cycles in a year is under genetic control in many species and they are evolved in response to the environment. Many phytophagous species that are dependent on seasonal plant resources are univoltine. Some such species have the ability to diapause for a large part of the year, typically during a cold winter. Others that bore in wood or other low-grade, but plentiful, food material may spend nearly the entire year feeding, with only brief pupal, adult and egg stages to complete a univoltine life cycle. Yet other species that live in tropical regions with little seasonality may be highly multivoltine, with several generations feeding on constantly growing vegetation (such as some species of Saturniidae), or continually renewed detritus, such as \"Drosophila\" and many other genera of flies with a life cycle of just a week or two.\n\n"}
{"id": "13764598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13764598", "title": "Warren Snyder", "text": "Warren Snyder\n\nDr. Warren Bertram Snyder (March 2, 1903 in Toronto, Ontario – March 27, 1957) was a Canadian athlete and doctor. Snyder competed for Canada in Rowing in the 1924 Summer Olympics. Snyder won the silver medal as crew member of the Canadian boat in the eights event. Before he competed in the men’s eights at the 1924 Summer Olympics, Snyder was well known as a basketball, baseball, and rugby football player. As a 17-year old, he helped the University of Toronto Varsity Blues defeat the Toronto Argonauts 16-3 to win the Grey Cup in 1920. At the 1924 Olympics, his Varsity Blues eights squad, which consisted of Arthur Bell, Ivor Campbell, Robert Hunter, William Langford, Harold Little, John Smith, Norman Taylor, and William Wallace, lost their heat to the United States, but earned the right to compete in the final by winning the repêchage. There they were again defeated by the United States, but captured the silver medal ahead of the Italians and the Britons.\n\n"}
